Vol. 36						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JULY, 1907.						No. 2


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
From Finland...............Alexandra Gripenberg	 9
Biography:—Rachel Whipple—Electa Wood
	Bullock....................................................	10
A Fine Reception...................Ellen R. Watson	11
Southern Alberta.............................................	15
Relief Society Reports:—Uintah Stake...........	14
	Weber Stake.............................................	14
	Pocatello Stake........................................	14
	Blackfoot Stake.......................................	14
	Snowflake Stake......................................	15
Obituary...........................................................	13
Editorial:—The First Literary Society in Utah	12
	Fulfillment of Prophecy...........................	13
Poetry:—Life for Evermore......H. W. Naisbitt	 9
	Tenederly Love on...........Lydia D. Alder	11


LIFE FOR EVERMORE.

AFTER LISTENING TO THE TABERNACLE ORGAN
				AND CHOIR.

The organ’s voice came floating to my ear,
Soft, sweet, anon in sonorous roar,
Which rolled along the lofty arch; then died.
Again the melody rang out in sob and swell,
The choir in unison and many-voiced,
Burst into joyous half ecstatic tones and mood
Until the glorious refrain climax reached,
Like Choir supernal, “Life for Evermore!”

With head bowed low, and throbbing heart, to
	pain,
The strain sublime rang out once more;
To all surroundings lost, the spirit drank
That mystic, all-pervading draught again,
Till earth with all its cares and petty things
Were naught to that sweet rapture and its theme
The final swell in grand luxuriance rose,
The same refrain of “Life for Evermore!”

The prayer and benison arose to heaven
As if inspired, its words subdued to tears!
The throng passed out into the Sabbath street;
Some souls were hushed to peace and holy joy,
On others, Oh ’twas lost—that thought;
Its thrilling voice, its music and its power,
They nothing felt, or heard; saw not, cared not,
Had no dream there of “Life for Evermore!”

Moving in business marts, in social cheer;
At noon, in twilight, and on sleepless couch;
In midnight dreams; that mighty organ peal.
That heavenly choir hath echoed all around.
In worship, when alone, when crowds were by
The sacred burthen of that startling hour,
And strangely moving mood, the same heart
	throb,
The same words rang, Oh, “Life for Evermore!”

Praise God! Praise God for music and for moods,
For thoughts for Him, for inspiration’s touch!
For phrases rounded into burning words;
For all of life and flashing hope today;
For all suggestive and alluring thoughts;
’Mid mocking earth—life, shallow at its best!
For that assurance of a brighter day
Which, God-like, tells of “Life for Evermore!”

This may be mine, be yours, ’tis more than dream;
The way is marked by tread of patient feet,
But ’tis for “Life, and ’tis for evermore.”
The anthem here rings there in grander key,
The spirit-pulse throbs there as if ’twere here;
All God’s redeemed have equal parts,
And all the angels sing in grand acclaim,
In heightened bliss in “Life for Evermore!”
						H. W. NAISBITT.


[Column 1]
		FROM FINLAND.

DURING A SESSION IN THE DIET.
	I write this during a pause in the ses-
sion. We are discussing the stamp duty,
the post statutes and the statutes on elk
hunting, but just now there is a little
pause. Yesterday six of us women pre-
sented our first petition on Married Wo-
men’s Property Right. Today we have
presented a bill on the Mother’s Right to
her Children, and a petition on the Rais-
ing of the Marriage Age. We are, as I
have mentioned before, nineteen women.
	On my right side sits Miss Hilda Kaki-
koski, a well known speaker and writer
on political questions. She is a very
good lecturer among the people on popu-
lar subjects. On my left side sits Mrs.
Hedvig Gebhard, the only woman in the
diet whose husband also is elected. He
sits in front of her. Mrs. Gebhard’s spe-
cialty is co-operation and social politics.
At her side sits Miss Ida Vemmelpuu,
teacher in a Folk school and chairman of
a Woman’s Rights Association. Lower
down sits Mrs. Lisi Kivioja, the wife of a
minister, and Mrs. Evelina Ala-Kulju,
the wife of a peasant. These all belong
as I do to the “Finnish Party.” A little
further on to the right sit Miss Hagman
and Miss Nissinen, both school principals,
Miss Hagman of a co-educational Ly-
ceum, Miss Nissinen of a preparatory
school. Both belong to the “Young
Finnish Party” and both are also writers
on social subjects. Miss Hagman also is
a pioneer in the co-education. Still more
to the right sits Miss Dagmar Neovius,
from the Swedish party, also a teacher.
To the left sits one of the social demo-
cratic women, whom I do not know yet;
they have, all of them, only worked as
agitators in their own party and are
chiefly known by that. With the excep-
tion of Mrs. Parssinen, who is a folk
school teacher, none of them are what is
called educated women. Most of them
are former servants, seamstresses or fac-
tory girls. It must be said that we wo-
men are very delicately treated. We have
a special room in pale oak and green.
Among the electors are five women, two
of them proxies.
	On the ten Parliamentary Committees
are elected fifteen women (some of them
proxies). I fear that we shall not be able
to do much in the committees because so
much of the work needs special knowl-
edge in law and in different branches of
social political subjects, which hitherto
have been little studied among women.
But our chief mission will be to take care
of women’s interests in the different ques-
tions. I sit on the Committee on Law,
the other woman member is a social
democrat—a washerwoman.
	To this committee most of the ques-
tions on reform in the laws concerning
women are sent. From this point of
view, perhaps, we women are able to do
something. But this fact—the washer-
woman on the Parliamentary Law Com-

[Column 2]
mittee—explains perhaps in some degree
to foreigners, the sort of difficulties which
arise for us women, because we have re-
ceived  parliamentary eligibility at the
same time as universal suffrage and uni-
versal eligibility were introduced. We
have also got this new right at a time
when the parties are very bitter against
each other. For both these reasons
there may rise difficulties, even disabili-
ties, which are an outcome of the facts
mentioned above, not of Women’s Suf-
frage and eligibility as such, but which
will be counted as results of both these
reforms. To explain this, an account of
the present state of the parties would be
needed, but such an explanation would take
too much of the Englishwoman’s Review
space.
	June 1. Today the “large committee”
was elected. Four women became mem-
bers.
	July 1. It is yet too early to say any-
thing about the women’s work in the
Diet. But so much can be said, that the
beginning is good, inasmuch as twenty-
seven women have been elected members
in the different committees, twelve of
them proxies. In this Diet there are the
following committees appointed: “The
great committee,”’ committees on consti-
tution, finance, bank affairs, railways,
law, economics, social and agrarian ques-
tions.  A fact which I think shows a weak
point is, that sometimes women have
been elected, not because they know any-
thing concerning the questions which the
committee will have to deal with, but just-
because they are women, or—to fill a
vacancy. This is especially the case with
some of the social democratic elections.
It is impossible that a seamstress can be
a suitable person to sit on the committee
on constitution, or a factory girl on the
finance committee, as is now the case.
And when the Diet has come to an end,
people will perhaps say, “Why, women
have shown now that it is of no use to
have them in Parliament.” But how
very different a position we should have,
if we had women lawyers on the commit-
tee on law and women bankers or promi-
nent business women on the committee
on finance.
	An encouraging point is, that the peti-
tions and bills brought in by women all,
without a single exception, dealt with
questions concerning changes in laws
about women and children, social purity,
education and other ethical questions.
Women appeared very little in purely
party questions, although they “showed
their colors” by signing petitions together
with men, and voted with their parties on
important questions. The bills brought
in asked for: (1) Raising the marriage
age from 15 to 18 years; (2) majority and
property-right for the married women.
The petitions brought in asked for: (1)
Majority and property-right for the
married women (three different peti-
tions); (2) legal right for the married wo-
man to own her children (two petitions);
(3) reforms in the legal position of chil-


dren born out of wedlock (three peti-
tions; (4) sharpening of the punishment
for offenses against girls under 17 years
of age—the age of consent is now 17, but
the punishment is too small— (four peti-
tions; (5) same right for women as for
men to serve in the Civil Service and re-
ceive other State employment (two peti-
tions; (6) reform of the girls’ household
training schools and more grants from
the State for their support; (7) midwives
to all municipal parishes (there are near-
ly one hundred without any midwife, and
the death-rate of newly born babies is
very high). Besides these bills and peti-
tions, a woman brought in a bill on such
changes in the law as would help to re-
move the disabilities concerning the bad
state and the insufficient supply of work-
ing men’s abodes. Another woman read
a petition concerning the foundation of a
national academy for our Finnish lan-
guage, literature and folk lore.
	The nine social democratic women
members brought in a petition that in
every municipal parish should be started
establishments by the State for all wo-
men who have children born out of wed-
lock, where these and their children
should be supported. As this proposition
was very vague and in many points al-
most openly advocated free love without
any limit, there arose a strong opposition
from some of us other women delegates;
so much the more, as the proposed
“homes” reminded us of the well-known
establishment of the same kind, united
in olden times with the Notre Dame Ca-
thedral in Paris, which had to be abol-
shed because of the horrid abuses to
which it led. This was the first time
there was a struggle between two differ-
ent tendencies among the women in the
Diet, but it will not be the last one. The
next battle will be on the special labor
legislation for women, and I am sorry to
say that very few among us women mem-
bers if any (besides one) will be “on the
right side.” In the next number of the
Review I shall certainly have to report
that most of us have “with flying flags
and the clang of trumpets” gone over to
the enemy; that is, have gladly made a
law which puts grown-up women in the
same category as children.
	We have a saying in our country: “They
don’t get any sense until they need it
no longer.”—Alexandra Gripenberg in
Englishwoman’s Review.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHY.
RACHEL WHIPPLE.
	Rachel Whipple was born in Draket,
Derbyshire, England, March 10, 1817.
Her parents, William and Sarah Cassel-
dine, were good, God-fearing people, but
Sister Rachel never knew the love of her
father and mother, as she was left an or-
phan when but fifteen weeks old. She
was then taken under the guardianship of
Henry and Elizabeth Godbe, who taught
her principles in her youth which helped
to build the true and noble character she
now possesses.
	On November 12, 1837, she was mar-
ried to John West. Sister Rachel had
been raised as a member of the Method-
ist church, but in the year 1848 she had
the privilege of hearing an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day

[Column 2]
Saints and in August of the same year she
along with her husband and family em-
braced the Gospel.
	Brother and Sister West were blessed
with five children, but were called to part
with one of them. On New Year’s day,
1851, they and their four children left
England for the valleys of the mountains.
Their ocean voyage was a very tedious
one, lasting ten weeks and three days.
After arriving in New Orleans Brother
and Sister West journeyed to St. Joseph.
Here the entire family was taken ill and
was not able to do anything for one an-
other. As they were among strangers,
there was not a friend to call on for aid.
For days the children lay crying for at-
tention, and the father and mother were
too ill to do anything for them. The
weather was bitter cold and they had no
fire. During these times Brother West
and three of the children were called to
the other side, leaving mother and daugh-
ter alone.
	In the spring Sister Rachel and her
daughter began their wearisome journey
across the plains with an ox and a cow
yoked together for their team. After
many hardships they arrived in Salt Lake
City on August 5, 1852, and made their
home with Brother Jesse West of the
Sixth ward.
	On the 10th of March, 1853, Sister Ra-
chel was married to Nelson Whipple and
came to reside in what was then the Nine-
teenth ward. Brother and Sister Whip-
ple were blessed with three children.
	On May 14, 1868, Eliza R. Snow and
Bishop Raleigh organized the Relief So-
ciety in the Nineteenth ward, when Sister
Whipple, who was always an energetic
worker and did all she could to assist the
poor and needy, was called to act as
First Counselor to Sister Agatha Pratt.
She labored faithfully in this position for
nine years and six months, when, owing
to the removal of Sister Pratt from the
ward, she was called to preside over the
Society.
	A few years after Sister Whipple had
been called to take charge of the Nine-
teenth ward Society the ward was di-
vided and the Twenty-second ward was
organized, which made Sister Whipple a
member of the new ward. So on the
16th of June, 1889, Sister Whipple was
made President of the new Twenty-sec-
ond ward Society, with Mary Jeremy as
her first and Maria L. Nebeker as her
second counselor. When they began their
work in the new ward they had nothing
to work with and no place in which to
hold their meetings, so they began meet-
ing in Sister Whipple’s house. At their
first business meeting, Sister Jeremy
brought needles, thread and some calico,
and the sisters spent their time in sew-
ing. From this humble beginning the
Society grew and prospered exceedingly
under the direction of Sister Whipple,
and they built a very commodious hall in
which to hold their meetings.
	On Nov. 12, 1901, Sister Mary Jeremy,
who had been a faithful worker, was re-
leased on account of illness, and Sister
Maria L. Nebeker was called to act as first
counselor and Sister Elizabeth H. Davis
as second counselor to Sister Whipple.
Soon after this, Sister Nebeker was taken
very ill, which prevented her attending
to her duties as a counselor, therefore the
work was left to Sister Whipple and Sis-
ter Davis.

[Column 3]
	For nearly thirty-sven years Sister
Whipple labored faithfully in Relief So-
ciety work, but finally, on account of her
feebleness and poor health, was com-
pelled to resign from her labors. There-
fore in June, 1904, she in connection with
Sister Nebeker was honorably released
with the love and blessings of all.
	The beloved subject of this sketch,
Sister Whipple, is still living, and al-
though she is over ninety years of age,
still she possesses her faculties of mind
and can sing the hymns of Zion with a
clear, sweet voice or converse with her
friends with a great amount of pleasure.
During her life she has shown herself to
be a true and noble woman, and it is the
desire of the sisters with whom she asso-
ciated that she may live as long as life is
desirable to her, and have the satisfac-
tion of knowing when she passes to an-
other sphere, that she has done her work
well, and has been loved by all who
knew her. When the angel of death
shall call her to the heavenly home,
may she fall asleep as a babe on its moth-
er’s breast, receive a glorious resurrec-
tion, and reign as a queen in the heavenly
kingdom forever.
			ELIZABETH H. DAVIS,
	President 22nd ward Relief Society.
			LULA WINN, Secretary.


ELECTA WOOD BULLOCK.
	Electa Wood Bullock was born July 15th, 1834,
in Florence, Huron Co., Ohio. She is the daughter
of Gideon D. and Hannah Daily Wood. Her pa-
rents joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Sain s in 1831. In 1839 Mrs. Bullock moved
with her parents to Far West, Mo., and went
through all the exciting scenes and vicissitudes of
the Saints in that country. From Far West they
removed to Adams County, Ill., in 1840, where
they resided until 1845, when they removed to
Nauvoo and in the spring of 1846 went with the
main body of the Saints to Council Bluffs. Here
the family remained until the spring of 1848 when
they undertook the long journey across the plains,
leaving the Missouri river May 16th, and arriving
in Salt Lake Sept. 24th. Mrs. Bullock resided in
Salt Lake City until 1854 and then moved to
Springville, Utah Co. During her residence in
Salt Lake City she was called by Pres. Brigham
Young to take an active part in the Drama. She
was in the cast of the first performance given in
the old Social Hall and for many years thereafter
was one who greatly assisted in promoting the in-
terest of the Drama in Utah. She possessed great
dramatic ability as many of her friends will testify.
In 1856 she was married to Isaac Bullock and has
since that time resided in Provo, where for many
years she conducted the “Bullock Hotel.” Among
those who have enjoyed the hospitality of the
“Bullock House” are numbered Congressmen,
Governors, Judges, English noblemen and states-
men and diplomats of several nations. She re-
tired from the cares and responsibilities of hotel
life in 1888, and since then has devoted her time
to the public service in numerous capacities.
	In 1890 she began to devote her energies and
ability to the promotion of the interests of Woman
Suffrage. From that time until today she has been
an earnest and consistent advocate of that great
and growing cause.
	In 1891 she was elected president of the “Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah Co.” and she has
been continued in that position to the present
time; in the same year she was elected a delegate
from Utah to the National Woman Suffrage Con-
gress held in Washington D.C. After the adjourn-
ment of that congress she visited her relatives in
Ohio, and while at Oberlin, Ohio, received word
of the sudden death of her husband, whom she
had left but a few weeks before in the best of
health.
	Upon her return home she continued with in-
creased energy if possible, to labor in the interest
of equal political rights for woman, and her in-
fluence was brought to bear upon the minds of
many who otherwise were avowed enemies to the
cause.
	In 1893 she was called by the committee in
charge of the Utah exhibit at the ChicagoWorld’s
Fair, to act as one of the five Lady managers.


She went to Chicago in May and remained at the
Utah Building continually until the close of the
Fair the last of Oct. 1893. In the discharge of her
duties at the Utah Building, she made many
friends for Utah, and succeeded in removing a
great many prejudices against this people and
false ideas concerning her people and state.
	Prior to and during the campaign for the elec-
tion of delegates to the constitutional convention,
Mrs. Bullock made a thorough personal canvass
of Utah county, visiting every prec nct in the in-
terest of securing in the proposed State Constitu-
tion a provision for equal suffrage  There was no
one influence more potent than that wielded by
her and her ardent co-laborers that brought the
result of an able delegation from the second
county in the state, unanimously in favor of an
equal suffrage plank in the constitution. In this
work she stood above party politics and advocated
her cause solely upon the principle of human
liberty, and advanced civilization.
	For many years past, Mrs. Bullock has devoted
much of her time to the Relief Society. When the
organization of the 6th ecclesiastical ward of Provo
was effected she became the President of the So-
ciety in that ward, and holds the position at the
present time. Many a sad heart has been made
glad through her kind motherly advice and care,
her influence is felt for good wherever she goes.
And now at the age of 73 she is still hale, hearty,
and active and takes great pleasure in her public
work. She takes great delight in her children,
grandchildren and great-grandchildren with whom
she is surrounded, and every one of them is a credit
to her, and the community in which they live.
								O S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A FINE RECEPTION.
	On June 24th, 1907, a very pleasant re-
ception was tendered to Sister Elizabeth
W. Condie, our retiring secretary, who
has been connected with the 6th ward
Relief Society for many years, being sec-
retary for over twenty-five years in this
society. Her new home in the 4th ward
was crowded with guests all anxious to
honor Sister Condie. The Stake Coun-
selors of the Pioneer Stake Relief Socie-
ty were present; also Brothers James
Leatham and Thomas Winter, the sis-
ters and brethren numbering forty-five.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb, in her pleas-
ing manner, assisting to make everyone
happy. Each one had brought some
dainties to prepare for a sumptuous ban-
quet. Two large tables were spread with
dainties, including strawberries and cake of
various kinds, which all enjoyed heartily.
President Ellen R. Watson presided,
assisted by her Counselors, Alice Butter-
worth and Margaret Leatham. The sisters
sang—“We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet.” Brother Winter, in a brief
manner, expressed his pleasure in being
an invited guest and spoke of the noble
work the sisters were doing. Singing—
“Now Let us Rejoice.”
	Stake Counselor Rebecca Pettit said she
expected President Cannon here today;
something has prevented her from com-
ing. “I have enjoyed myself much, I al-
ways do when engaged in this great and
noble work. You sisters show your res-
pect and love for Sister Condie by such a
gathering here today. Your President
must be proud of you sisters, you are all
active and energetic in this work. I am
proud to be here on this occasion to honor
Sister Condie, who has been a faithful
worker in your society; she has done ex-
cellent work in your midst; you will miss
her; she is truly worthy of the honor you
have shown her today.”
	Counselor Margaret Leatham said: “I do
honor and respect Sister Condie for her
faithful labors. She has been more than
a sister. I have known her over forty
years past. She has always been willing
and at her post on every occasion when

[Column 2]
duty called her; has been faithful and true
under every trial. Her life has not been
without severe trials; she has nobly stood
the test and clung to the iron rod; never
been ashamed of the gospel nor its prin-
ciples; has always nobly defended them.
We have one of the finest societies in the
Pioneer stake”.
	Singing—“The Spirit of God.”
	Sister Mary Ann Rushton bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the gospel.
Had undergone many trials; was now 84
years old. Had been in Nauvoo in all the
mobbing and persecution. Heard the
Prophet Joseph Smith speak in meeting
and prophesy many things which have
been literally fulfilled; had the pleasure of
shaking hands with the prophet. Said—
“O, how noble and grand he was; how I
rejoice when I reflect that I knew him;
yes, we loved him; his memory is dear to
us. I was in the meeting when the first
Relief Society was organized. During
the mobbing in Nauvoo my husband,
children and myself were hid in an old
wagon; nine masked men came up, de-
manding my husband, telling me they
would kill him. I replied—not, unless
you kill me first; if you come nearer we
will show you. Our faith never wavered.
God bless you all.”
	Counselor Butterworth felt that we all
came to show our respect to Sister Con-
die. The Lord has blessed her in a re-
markable manner, for she never failed us,
was humble and obedient: we feel we
lose one who was on hand when called
upon. We love and honor her and her
labors; pray she may live to enjoy her
beautiful home; that she may be blessed
in her posterity. We are proud of our
Society in the 6th ward. May the Lord
bless Sister Condie that she may be faith-
ful to the end.
	Song by Sister Bates, entitled: “Let
the Heavenly Gates ajar,” accompanied
by Sister Annie Poulton on the piano.
	Aunt Sarah Fullmer, as she is called
by those who know her, was one of the
oldest members of this society; crossed
the plains with the Pioneers; had been an
active teacher fifty-three years in this so-
ciety; was a presiding teacher twenty-five
years, and was never too feeble to act in
that capacity.
	Brother James Leatham said he felt
proud to be numbered with Relief Socie-
ty workers; he had known Sister Condie
forty-three years; had found her to be al-
ways the same true and faithful worker on
every occasion and in every capacity. She
had been a faithful worker in the Relief
society thirty-four years; taught school
and assisted to educate our young. “I was
connected somewhat with her in that ca-
pacity. Knew her to be faithful and true
in every calling, laboring for the advance-
ment of the Relief Society work. The
Lord has blessed you, sisters, in your
noble work and many aged who have
passed on to the other side have felt the
blessings of your labors. May the Lord
be with Sister Condie, that her last
days may be peace and joy and satisfac-
tion in the gospel. I pray that all may
fill the mission designed them.”
	President Ellen R. Watson presented
Sister Condie, in behalf of the sisters,
with a beautiful mahogany rocker.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb presented
Sister Condie with a beautiful batiste or
lap tablet with paper and envelopes, and
said that we wish you, in your leisure mo- 

[Column 3]
ments, to open this, and write us kind re-
membrances.
	Sister Condie, in replying to these
kind sentiments, said: “My dear sisters,
my heart is too full to express my feel-
ings and sentiments here today. May I al-
ways be worthy of your love and esteem.”
	The beautiful hymn, favorite with Sister
Condie, was sung: “O my Father.”
	After hand-shaking, many kind senti-
ments were expressed and all retired feel-
ing truly blest.
		Prest. ELLEN R. WATSON,
	Counselors ALICE BUTTERWORTH,
			MARGARET LEATHAM.


TENEDERLY LOVE ON.
How trustful is the heart and glad
	That loves as in its youthful days,
	Still all around the sunshine plays,
And trills the song bird never sad.
Enriched the soul by love divine,
	Though low’ring clouds may dark appear,
	Soon radiant light the way makes clear,
To those who singing upward climb.
To have, to hold, to prize, to love,
	New life imparts and youth renews;
	Cling close to those ye ne’er would lose,
And cherish them all things above.
Our friends are those we loved before,
	In other worlds, afar, unknown;
	Those mem’ries come when silent, lone,
And fill our hearts with spirit love.
Love is the chain that willing binds
	Its links of purest, brightest gold,
	Annealed, their trust to constant hold
Communion with congenial minds.
Make sacrifice before Love’s shrine,
	Burn incense there from day to day,
	And worship render while you may,
Then sacred trust shall e’er be thine.
Love maketh off’ring to its own,
	In thrilling language, soft and low,
	A stranger heart may never know,
Though softly breathed in undertone.
Love, unassuming, solace finds,
	Ne’er surfeits with expressions bold,
	Is as a rose that leaves enfold
Before ’tis kissed by soft south winds.
Then tenderly love on for aye,
	Those cherished in the years agone,
	E’en till the coming glorious dawn
Shall usher in that perfect day.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	At this time three great meetings are
in progress. Delegates from every civil-
ized nation are in session at The Hague
for the purpose of lessening the evils and
the frequency of war, and of promoting
the use of arbitration as a means of settle-
ment of international disputes. On the
shores of the Atlantic the Jamestown Ex-
position advertises the greatest military
and naval display the world has ever seen
in time of peace. On the shores of the
Pacific, in the “City of Angels,” the as-
sociation which represents the largest
body of educators in the world has met
to discuss the latest problems of educa-
tion. Shall we plant ourselves on the
side of peace or of war? Will the advo-
cacy of peace raise a generation of weak-
lings? Has anyone ever dared to call
William Penn a weakling? He was as
brave and courageous as his father, the
admiral. As soon as the three and a half
millions of teachers in the schools of the
civilized world shall begin in earnest and
with skill to inculcate sentiments of peace
and the principles of justice and fair deal-
ing in the treatment of weaker nations
we may hope for the limitation of arma-
ments and the dawn of an era of peace
that is worthy of the disciples of the
Prince of Peace.—Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.
	
	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		JULY, 1907


[Column 1]
THE FIRST LITERARY SOCIETY IN UTAH.
	It has generally been admitted that
New England took the lead, or perhaps
one should say Boston and its vicinity, in
progressive tendencies towards literary
attainments, and it has been stated that
woman’s clubs and literary societies orig-
inated in Boston, or in the Far East.
	In Madam Severance’s book entitled
the “Mother of Clubs,” she gives her ex-
perience and some of her ideas on the
subject, and data, etc. She says, “To
make a satisfactory record, I must begin
with the advent of the club-idea in my
own mind in the early fifties while living
in Cleveland.”
	Then she explains that fifteen years of
her early married life were spent there,
though she was born and reared in New
York. It was a frontier town then with
very few intellectual resources, though
there were schools and churches galore,
and a library association. Afterwards,
when in Boston and meeting some of the
“eminent wise men and women in the
East,” she says “I was especially attracted
by Emerson and Alcott, for whom parlor
meetings were occasionally arranged.”
She was anxious to live in Massachusetts
so as to have her sons go to Harvard, and
so she herself could meet “the wise wo-
men in literature” on some ground of “fel-
lowship and service.” Mr. Alcott informed
her, if she wanted to live in Boston for
its broader and finer atmosphere, that
would be no disappointment, but to meet
easily “the wise women” would be diffi-
cult, as they were “scattered in different
circles, churches and suburbs.”
	Another idea of such possibility as she
desired came from reading in the Eng-
lish Woman’s Journal, of the formation 
of clubs for women in England.
	Mrs. Severance cherished this hope,
this idea in her heart, it was a project
which she agitated gently during the first
three years after she had settled in Bos-
ton. She became a member of the board
of the New England Hospital for women
and children; also one of the “Sanitary
Commission,” during the civil war, and
other public measures of a similar kind.
The possibility of the club-idea evolved in
a series of parlor meetings.
	Notwithstanding the years intervening
between the thought of women coming
together in a society for intellectual pur-
suits and advancement, it was not until
March 10, 1868, that officers were elected,

[Column 2]
a constitution adopted and a systematic
society begun.
	Without going into any of the details,
which are really of very great interest,
we only desire to state that in the far
West, viz., Nauvoo, Illinois, a society for
woman’s higher education and advance-
ment had sprung up almost without effort
and was fully organized for progressive
work as early as March 17, 1842, twenty-
six years before this woman’s society in
Boston. On May 30, 1868, the first meet-
ing to introduce the New England Club
to the public was held in Chickering Hall.
At this meeting were such able friends
and advisors as Ralph Waldo Emerson,
James Freeman Clarke, Jacob Manning,
John Weiss, O. B. Frothingham, Thomas
Wentworth Higginson, Bronson Alcott,
Julia Ward Howe, and Mrs. Edna D.
Cheney.
	Without in the least disparaging any
effort put forth or any endeavor to bring
together social forces and to create a cen-
ter of valuable activity, we only desire to
show that even at an earlier period in
the very heart of the desert, here in a
country unknown, as it were, men and
women formulated a similar society to
that of which Mrs. Severance speaks with
such justifiable pride. The facts are hard-
ly known today even to our own young
people in regard to this society, of which
the writer purposes now to give a brief
statement while some of the active
members of that organization are still
living.

THE POLYSOPHICAL ASSOCIATION.
	Early in the settlement of Utah, even
amidst the struggle for existence, the
drift of thought of some of these remark-
able pioneer men and women tended to-
wards breadth of thought and higher in-
tellectuality. It seems to the writer at
this time that it is as striking an instance
of this nature as history records anywhere.
The endeavors of those engaged in this
literary work were to enlarge, enlighten
and cultivate the powers of the human
soul—this was the supreme idea of its
founders. When the people came, the
first thought was to make homes and
raise crops; they had brought with them
a printing press which may still be seen,
they established a newspaper, the Des-
eret News, which still retains its name.
They founded a university and they did
many wonderful things; but it is of the
association of men and women of ad-
vanced ideas that the writer desires to
tell in this desultory article.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow saw the need
for timely action and in his own home
laid the foundation for the first high
school in Utah and from that eventually
grew the Polysophical Society or gather-
ing for social, literary and general culti-
vation of mind and manners.
	This society continued with phenome-
nal success; it numbered among its mem-
bers those, both men and women, who
had not only broad views, but education,
culture and innate refinement even
though they were pilgrims in a desert
land.
	There are poems and prose articles in
print that date as far back as 1854 and 1855,
the precise date is unfortunately not
known to the writer, but the exercises
were all of a high quality: music, recita-
tions, essays, papers on various subjects.
The meetings were exceedingly interest-

[Column 3]
ing. President Brigham Young was one
of the first supporters and patrons of this
original society, and encouraged his fami-
ly to contribute of their talents to the
success of the society, which he attended
regularly. Among those who were mem-
bers known to the writer, were Apostle
Lorenzo Snow, his sister the celebrated
poet Eliza R. Snow, Hon. Wm. Ed-
dington, Hon. Samuel W. Richards, Hon.
Claudius V. Spencer, Hon. Amasa M. Ly-
man, the renowned author, poet and edi-
tor Henry W. Naisbitt, Hugh Findley,
James McKnight, W. G. Mills, David
Candland, Charles W. Bassett, Charles
Lambert, Gilbert Clements, John B.
Kelley, Leo Hawkins, Isaac Bowman,
F. A. Mitchell, W. S. Godbe, Judge W.
W. Phelps, James McKinnon, John
Lyon, Harry Bowring, Philip Margetts
and others.
	Musical contributors: Louisa K. Spen-
cer, pianist; Sarah Kay, guitar, Helena
Richards, organ; Daniel Olson and Ja-
cob Hutchinson, violin; W. C. Dunbar,
bagpipes.
	Of gifted women who contributed es-
says and papers, songs and hymns: Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Margaret P. Young,
Hannah T. King, a very gifted English
woman, author and writer; and Hannah
Cornaby, also an English woman, and
another very notable writer, Margaret
Sear. There were also of celebrated wo-
men, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M.
Kimball, Josephine Ursenbach, Zina D.
H. Young, Susan Dudley, Eleanor Pratt,
Presendia L. Kimball, Sarepta L. Hey-
wood. These are a few names recalled
from memory, as we have no list or re-
cord for reference.
	The following paragraph from the Bi-
ography of Lorenzo Snow, written by his
sister Eliza R. Snow, seems a fitting finale
for this article and will give our readers
an idea of the order observed and the
characteristic tone of the meetings:
	“The association met once in two
weeks in my brother’s hall, which was
decorated in a manner to correspond with
the occasion. The grand aim in getting
up the programme was to awaken an in-
terest by riveting the attention from the
opening to the close. To secure this ef-
fect the parts allotted to each were full
of point and vigor and no one was al-
lowed more than fifteen minutes. The
speeches, songs, readings, recitations, in-
strumental music, or guitar, organ, piano
and bagpipes were all precisely assigned,
and sufficient time given for preparation.
In order to preserve quietude and pro-
found silence, the one who was appointed
master of ceremonies was seated beside a
table in the center of the hall, with pen-
ciled notes on small slips of paper, in-
forming each one when the precise time
for his or her part would arrive, so the
name was not called. A small lad wear-
ing an appropriate badge moved quietly
around and presented the notes as ad-
dressed, and a light touch on a small bell
gave the signal of the moment. All were
strictly enjoined to present nothing that
would have a tendency to annoy the feel-
ings of any and nothing was permitted
bordering on low witticism or that could
offend the most refined sensibility. A
sacred, elevating, refining influence at all
times pervaded the assembly inspiring
pure and lofty sentiments.	*	*	*
The effect of these varied exercises on in-
vited guests was captivating.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FULFILLMENT OF PROPHECY.
	At the present time the work of the
Lord is seemingly making more rapid
progress than ever before. The call for
Elders to proclaim the Gospel in the
lands far away is greater and on every
hand one sees abundant proof that these
are the last days ushering in the fulness
of times, spoken of in the Scriptures by
the ancient prophets; and we who believe
in the restoration of the everlasting gos-
pel, through the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, cannot doubt the
fulfilment of the revelations given in this
day to the generations now upon the
earth. The daily events at home and
abroad are proof positive to every Latter-
day Saint, that it is more than ever
necessary to be on one’s guard to shun
evil and live uprightly, devoting time and
talents to the Master’s service.
	The women of Zion have every reason
to be grateful for the many blessings en-
joyed by them and the prosperous condi-
tions of the present day; the good homes
and pleasant surroundings after the toils
and struggles of past years. Few of the
younger generation know or can possibly
realize what this people have endured in
days gone by.
	The tendency of the young people
nowadays towards extravagance in dress,
and all sorts of luxuries and recreations,
is, to the serious-minded and thoughtful,
simply appalling. One cannot help re-
calling to mind the prophecies  concern-
ing the “Daughters of Zion,” with which
all students of the Bible are familiar.
Not that one would wish for a moment to
curtail real enjoyment, for youth is the
time for enjoyment; but frivolity and van-
ity and love of finery, often, one might
say almost invariably, leads the mind
astray, and frequently causes disaster
and ruin; sometimes irremediable. Those
who are aware to what these excesses
tend should not hesitate to lift a warning
voice, whether their admonitions are
heeded or not, for, if those who realize
the situation refrain from warning the
young and thoughtless of the dangerous
consequences of such a course taken in
extremes and excesses, because it seems
an unpleasant duty, it may be difficult to
justify themselves hereafter, and will not
one’s conscience itself condemn such lack
of moral courage? If anything can be done
by a united effort towards restraining the
evils that are gaining ground in the cities
of the Saints, there should be prompt
response from those who see this tenden-
cy, to any movement in this direction that
will help stem the tide. Surely the watch-
men on the towers are not asleep! The
Scripture says, Woe unto those that are at
ease in Zion. Does it not apply to the
present day most forcibly? It assuredly
does. Most of the Latter-day Saints be-
lieve the prophecies of the Prophet Isaiah
refer to the last days, and if so, they
should read the 3d chapter of Isaiah be-
ginning with the 16th verse.
	Probably most of those who rush into
these pastimes and recreations so strenu-
ously have no idea as to what it may lead;
they are innocent of evil; all the more
do they need the advice and warnings of
the mothers in Israel, whose duty it is to
correct evil, according to the instructions
given by the Prophet Joseph Smith to
the first  organization in that early day.
The Relief Society has this precedent to
follow; but as individuals we should each

[Column 2]
of us use our utmost influence against ex-
cesses of all kinds and improprieties in
personal dress and manners. We cannot
do too much in this direction if we are
actuated by pure motives and take a
broad view of the subject. In all these
matters, prayer and the Spirit of God is
essential, so that we may not be too se-
vere or overreach the mark. Wisdom
and prudence must be used in order to
know when and how to handle these mat-
ters that are of such vital importance to
the welfare and wellbeing of the youth of
Zion.
	Our people have been taught that they
should not follow after the vain and fool-
ish things of the world, but should design
their own apparel and let Babylon alone.
They have not listened to this counsel on-
ly in part. To be sure, very few of the
women of our faith have gone to extremes
in these directions, but there seems now
to be a crisis in these affairs, and who
knows to what it may lead!
	We have been warned and forewarned
of that which would befall those who are
“lovers of pleasure more than lovers of
God,’’and it is a well-known fact that those
who are partakers of things not good for
them, will be partakers also of the plagues
that follow disobedience. Therefore it
behooves the women of Zion to lift up
their voices in season (if not out of sea-
son) in warning, that the youth of Zion, of
whom we are all so justly proud, may at-
tain to that excellence in all things that
shall entitle them to the blessings and ful-
fillment of promises made to those who for
the sake of worshipping God according to
the dictates of their own consciences
came out from among those who perse-
cuted them into this then desert land
where they could be at peace.


OBITUARY.
ANN E. WEBSTER.
	We are again called to part with one of our
dearly beloved sisters in the death of Sister Ann
E. Webster, which occurred early Sunday morn-
ing, after a very short illness, indeed, we might say,
without any apparent suffering, never having
been confined to her bed, only a gradual failing of
her physical powers. In connection with her hus-
band, Brother Francis Webster, who had preceded
her to the great beyond a little over a year, their
memories will always be held in the highest es-
teem for the great and active interest they took in
the progress of this commonwealth.
	Sister Ann E. Parsons was born June 2, 1831, in
Wymondham, Norfolk, England. She became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1848, was married to Francis Web-
ster in London, December 5, 1855. They sailed
from Liverpool May 25, 1856, and arrived in Salt
Lake City on the last day of November the same
year, passing through all the hardships incident
to a journey across the plains with a handcart.
Her husband had deposited money in the Emigra-
tion Fund sufficient to pay for team and outfit, but
before they started word came from the presiding
authorities advising all who thought they could
do so to come with the handcarts, and use the
means deposited to assist others to emigrate. The
money thus deposited was the means of bringing
eleven persons, themselves included, and though
many died from cold and hunger, all of the eleven
arrived in safety; indeed their number had in-
creased, for Sister Webster’s eldest child was born
a few days before arriving in Salt Lake City.
	On December 15 that same year they arrived in
Cedar City, remaining here through their lives.
Sister Webster became a member of our first or-
ganization of sisters inaugurated that year—fifty
years ago last November. For many years she
acted as secretary of the grain committee, organ-
ized for the gathering and storing of grain for
the Relief Society. In the year 1886 she was
chosen president of our Relief Society, which posi-
tion she held for twelve years. Was counselor in
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society for sev-
eral years. Her life has been an active one, both


in public and private, enduring many hardships
incident to the building up of homes in the early
settlement of this place. She was ever willing to
assist others in time of sickness and death. Her
family of six sons and two daughters are earnest
workers in the faith their parents embraced, all
of the sons having filled honorable missions, the
youngest one leaving home for England about a
month after his father’s death.
	The Pioneer fathers and mothers of this place
are leaving us one by one, and among our Relief
Society workers their absence is noticeable and
felt. In the latter part of February Sister Mary
Wood, one of the earliest residents of Cedar City,
after a long sickness, was called home. Sister
Wood had been a member of our Society since its
first organization, assisting in every way as far as
her health would permit. She has left a numer-
ous posterity to follow her good example and em-
late her virtues. Her daughters are all active work-
ers in our Society.	J. P. MACKELPRANG,
				Cor. Sec. Relief Society.


MARTHA B. HOLDAWAY.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Martha
B. Holdaway.
	Sister Holdaway was born October 12, 1839, in
Washington, Erie Co, Penn. and departed this life
May 18, 1907. She was the daughter of Benjamin
and Electa Gardener, and the wife of Daniel
Webster Holdaway. She was the mother of seven
children—four girls and three boys, six of whom
survive her.
	The officers of the Deweyville Relief Society of
the Box Elder Stake of Zion, have prepared the
following resolutions:
	Whereas, our Eternal Father has seen fit to call
home one of His most earnest workers in His
cause, therefore be it resolved that we, the mem-
bers of this Society, offer our earnest sympathy,
and mourn our loss with the bereaved family.
	Resolved, that we do humbly testify that we
have greatly appreciated her noble works. The
leading traits of her character were charity, love
and humility. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint; and her light will shine before
us, both in time and in eternity. We realize that
she is enjoying the rest of the faithful, and that
she will come forth in a glorious resurrection,
crowned with eternal life.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded on
our Relief Society record, also published in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	In behalf of the Deweyville Relief Society.
		HANNAH E. LOVELAND, President.
		MARGARET JOHNSON,
		SARAH H. MARBLE, Counselors.
		BASHUA A. CHAPMAN, Asst. Sec.

	Afflictions sore long time she bore,
	Physicians were in vain,
	Till God did please to give her ease
	And free her of her pain.
	Now she’s gone we’ll not recall her
	From a paradise of bliss,
	Where no evils can befall her, 
	In a changing world like this.
	Her loved name will never perish
	Nor her mem’ry crown the dust,
	For the Saints of God will cherish
	The remembrance of the just.
BASHUA A. CHAPMAN, Asst. Sec.


LEAH PYNE.
	Whereas: God our Eternal Father, in His Di-
vine wisdom, has taken from our midst our belov-
ed sister and fellow-laborer. Sister Leah Pyne, an
earnest worker in the Relief Society of the Fourth
ward of Provo, of the Utah Stake of Zion;
	Whereas: In her separation from us, we have
lost from our number a wise counselor whose pre-
cept and example have, both in public and private
life been of a nature to elevate mankind and draw
them nearer to the fountain of all truth,
	Therefore, be it Resolved: that we the officers
and members of said Relief Society, extend our
condolence and sympathy to the bereaved family
of the deceased, and recognizing in her removal
our great loss, but realizing that the Hosts of
Heaven will rejoice on her arrival among them,
we humbly bow in submission to the Divine will
of our Father in Heaven.
	And be it Further Resolved. That a copy of
these resolutions be placed upon the records of
the Relief Society and a copy presented to the
family.
		Signed:	MRS. MARGARET WATSON,
				MRS. EMMA ASHWORTH,
				MRS. ELIZA A. SPERRY,
								Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Jensen, June 6, 1907. President
Sarah M. Colton presiding. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of sing-
ing, prayer, roll call and reading of min-
utes.
	Opening address by Sister Sarah M.
Colton, she also reported the stake as im-
proving. Reports were given from all the
wards except Mt. Dell, all are in good
condition.
	Song from Glines Relief Society by
Miss Effie Johnson and company. Essay
from Mt. Dell Relief Society written by
Mrs. Mary J. Searle and read by the
secretary Mrs. Phebe A. Merkley. Re-
citation from Jensen Relief Society by
Miss Leah Timothy.
	Bishop George Billings of Jensen spoke
of the organization of the Relief Society
and the work of the sisters, he felt to wel-
come all that had gathered together.
	Mrs. Harriett Goodrich gave a report
of the General Conference held in Salt
Lake City also of the General Relief So-
ciety Conference.
	Singing and benediction by C. F. B.
Sybert.
	Afternoon session: We continued our
services by the choir singing, and prayer
by Bro. Edward Longhurst. Singing and
other opening exercises. General and
local officers of the Relief Society were
sustained.
	A lecture on Faith from the Vernal Re-
lief Society by Mrs. Mary Gibson. An
Essay from Naples Relief Society entitled
"Influence of Woman" by Mrs. Rhoda
Goodrich. Sister Goodrich also spoke at
some length on a great many subjects.
	A song from Maeser Relief Society by
Clara C. Hacking and others.
	Mrs. Richardson related some of her
experience in the mission field in Scotland
which was very interesting.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett bore a strong
testimony, also gave some counsel in re-
gard to the plan gotten up for the Relief
Society work and of the duties of the
teachers, spoke of gathering grain for
storage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Colton spoke of the good
the Relief Society had done in regard
to making means for the Uintah Stake
Tabernacle, she thanked the people of
Jensen for their hospitality.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation."
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bro. Joel Bascom.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
						Secretary.
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Weber Stake of Zion
was held in the Relief Society Hall, in
Ogden, June 13, 1907, at 10 a. m. and 1:30
p. m., President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff and
representatives from nearly all of the 26
wards were in attendance. Of the breth-

[Column 2]
ren, there were Elder Franklin S. Rich-
ards of Salt Lake City, Weber Stake
President Lewis W. Shurtliff, Patriarch
David McKay, and Bishop Robert Mc-
Quarrie.
	Despite the stormy day, the hall was
nearly filled with attentive listeners and
an excellent spirit was manifest through-
out the entire conference. The hall has
been newly papered and presents a rest-
ful, neat and tasteful appearance that is
well in harmony with the hallowed influ-
ence that abides within its walls.
	President Jane S. Richards and Coun-
selor Emily M. Shurtliff each spoke words
of encouragement and advice to those
present, urging all to a faithful discharge
of their duties.
	The reports showed the society in all
the wards in good working order, though
but few have been successful in gathering
the young mothers into this grand organ-
ization. However their numbers are in-
creasing as evidenced by their presence
at the conference.
	The brethren came freighted with bless-
ings for the Relief Society workers; their
counsels were wise and fatherly and their
words of appreciation and commendation
will be a stimulus to all who were in at-
tendance. 
	Elder Franklin S. Richards spoke on
the importance of Relief Society work
and of the crowns awaiting those who
lives are spent in service for others. No
matter how small the act of kindness; no
matter how lowly our position, we are
greater than queens and our reward is
sure. Spoke of the marvelous work of
of the boy prophet—the revelations and
the grand code of laws he brought forth,
—of his magnetic power which even the
world had to acknowledge; of his success-
ors, not like Joseph, but each the right
man in the right place and at the ap-
pointed time to fulfil their special part in
this gigantic work. Referred to our beau-
tiful building and the spiritual influence
that broods within its walls, and prayed
that the same might ever abide within
us; that the Lord would pour out the
balm of His spirit upon all, even as they
had poured it upon others; that no mis-
fortune might ever come without its ac-
companying balm and blessing and that
we might all meet in the eternal worlds,
there to dwell forever.
	Stake President Lewis W. Shurtliff re-
ferred to the shortness of life and the pass-
ing away of many of our valiant ones,
and the need of the younger ones taking
hold of the work, of whom we have an
army of noble sons and daughters. It is
not so much a question of how long we
live, as of how much we accomplish.
	Patriarch David McKay spoke more
especially to the widows, giving words of
comfort and cheer and showing that their
loved ones were near and ready to aid in
time of need; also touched on work for
our dead.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie commended
the sisters for their good works; also re-
ferred to the shortness of time and the
rapidity with which this work is being ac-
complished.
	Altogether a most enjoyable time was
had, even "a time of refreshing from the
Lord."
			NELLIE BECRAFT,
				Assistant Secretary.

[Column 3]
		POCATELLO STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Pocatello Stake was held at McCammon,
June 12th, 1907, President Maria R. Hyde
presiding.
	There were present, besides members
of the Stake Board, Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Sister P. Y. Beatie of
the general Board, also Henry S. Wood-
land of the Stake Presidency, and several
Bishops of the Stake.
	Unfortunately there was an almost con-
tinual down-pour of rain, commencing
early in the morning, and for that rea-
son there was not so large an attendance
as was desired.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Maria R. Hyde welcomed the breth-
ren and sisters, expressing her regret at
the condition of the weather which had
prevented many from attending the con-
ference. Eight ward organizations were
represented out of the twelve in the stake.
	President Hyde reported the general
condition of the Society; said that we are
solving problems that older stakes have
met and solved years ago. We are now
engaged in promoting the building of
granaries—we expect to have three ward
granaries and one district granary built
this year; the sisters are doing as well as
they can under existing circumstances.
	Sister Beatie rejoiced that we are pre-
paring to build granaries. Advised the
sisters to make their homes pleasant and
prepare their children for their life's
work, also spoke of the nurse class.
	President Woodland spoke of the noble
work performed by the sisters of the Re-
lief Society. Advised the sisters to hon-
or and sustain the Priesthood.
	Sister Larsen of the Grant ward gave a
lecture on repentance. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	On reassembling, after opening exer-
cises, Sister Dusenberry addressed the
congregation. Spoke of the feeling of
timidity that comes over us when called
upon to speak; its value lies in the fact
that it tends to make us more humble.
Advised the mothers to be patient with
their children, sympathize with them, be
companions to them, and make home
pleasant and a desirable place for them.
Related stories illustrating these truths.
	Sister Martha Scadden of the Pocatello
ward gave a lecture from the Book of
Mormon. Song by Master Clifford Wood-
land of the Marsh Center ward.
	Counselor Matilda Smith advised the
mothers to remember and relate the
beautiful stories told by Sister Dusenber-
ry, to their children; also spoke on the
storing of wheat. Bishop Boyce spoke
on this subject, exhorting the sisters not
to neglect this great duty. Bishop Mc-
Clellan had enjoyed the instructions giv-
en. Said we should read the instructions
with our children, and learn to govern
ourselves, that we may be better able to
govern them. After singing and prayer,
the conference adjourned for six months.
	ELIZABETH PRIEST, Secretary.
		BLACKFOOT STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Blackfoot Stake was held at Blackfoot,
July 15th, 1907, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	After the opening exercises, President
Lucy A. Steers expressed the pleasure


[Column 1]
it gave her to see so many present
this stormy morning. Reported the
Blackfoot Stake in good working or-
der. Spoke of the annual fund and hoped
we would all be prompt in this. Verbal
reports were given by Matilda Rupp,
Blackfoot; Lost River by Stake President
Lucy A. Steers; Riverside by Maggie
Taylor; Groveland, by Alice Yancy; Ba-
salt by Mellie D. Dye; Woodville by Mary
Cunningham; Goshen by Sophia Soren-
sen.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert, missionary
from the Relief Society General Board,
was very pleased to be present, but was
sorry to hear of such a lack of attendance;
said the Relief work was a noble labor,
and she enjoyed it very much. Thought
we could visit the sick to cheer and com-
fort them, as this did much good; we as
mothers should teach our children the
law of tithing also teach them to be hum-
ble and prayerful. Also spoke of our aged
President and said she had the Relief So-
ciety work at heart. Although she is not
able to travel, her thoughts are with you
all. Advised the mothers to look after
their girls and boys and teach them to be
virtuous and truthful and live pure and
holy lives.
	Song by Louisa Herbert.
	Stake President James Duckworth was
glad to meet with the sisters and felt
paid already for coming; also glad to hear
the good reports.
	Counselor John F. Shelly was very
glad to be present and partake of the
good spirit; knew that if we all did our
duty, we would be blessed in our labors.
	Counselor Juliette Blackburn was
pleased to see so many present; glad that
we had our sisters from Salt Lake with
us; knew we were blessed with the spirit
of the Lord. Spoke on Temple work.
Thought we ought to have a band of
good lively teachers to work up an inter-
est in these associations; urged all to be
more prayerful and strive to do right.
	Afternoon session of the Relief Society
Conference, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	Reports were given by Lucy Christen-
sen of Moreland ward; Thomas by Ber-
tha Noach; Shelly by Elizabeth Kelly;
Kimball by Alida Robertson. The re-
ports were very good in a financial way,
but a lack of attendence was reported by
all. President Lucy A. Steers thanked
all for coming out to report their asso-
ciations.
	Sister Woodbury of the St. George
Stake was glad to be present; also glad
to think she was counted worthy of being
one of God’s children; advised the moth-
ers to teach their little children to pray
and ask the blessing on the food; “do not
let your children roam the streets.”
Spoke of how she enjoyed working in the
Temple; thought we should all spend
more of our time for the Lord as our
time is short here on earth.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert spoke of
the many hardships she had endured for
the Gospel’s sake, but knew the Lord will
bless us all if we seek Him in prayer. She
also earnestly spoke of the Nurses’ class
to be taught in Salt Lake this year;
thought we Latter-day Saints should have
our own nurses and doctors; we are cer-
tainly the most blessed people on the
face of the earth.
	Stake President Sarah Carruth of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Asso-

[Column 2]
ciation, said she was delighted to be pres-
ent; we as mothers have a great work to
perform. Relief Society workers and Mu-
tual workers should go hand in hand.
Spoke of the evils of fault-finding.
	Bishop Frank C. Parkinson felt it an
honor to stand before the sisters in this
conference; referred to his labors as a
missionary and said he had received a
great deal of help from the Relief Socie-
ty of the Blackfoot ward. Said, “Moth-
ers, remember your daughters and teach
them to live pure and virtuous lives and
marry men of our own faith.”
	President Lucy A. Steers felt we had
had a good time together, and desired to
thank our visiting sisters, and also wished
them to carry our heartfelt thanks to
Salt Lake to the General Board, for
sending us such good sisters. We as a
Stake Board very much desire to have
the hearty support of the new Stake pres-
ident. Thanked all who had taken part.
	Singing and benediction and adjourn-
ment.
			ROSALIA NIELSEN,
						Secretary.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Snow-
flake stake was held at Snowflake, June
16th, 1907, Sister Alice Merrill Horne of
the General Board, present.
	As conference was held on Sunday,
Bishop Hunt took charge of the open-
ing exercises and then gave the meeting
into the hands of R. S. Stake President
Mary J. R. West, who gracefully welcomed
all to conference and expressed gratitude
for the visit of Sister Horne.
	Snowflake, Taylor, Shumway, Show-
low and St. Joseph branches were re-
ported by Sisters Nellie M. Smith, Mary
A. Standifird, Dicia Denham, Lucinda
Reidhead and Nina Porter respectively.
Written reports from Woodruff and Pine-
dale were read. All were represented as
doing fairly well and pleased with the
success of the Book of Mormon lessons.
	Ethel Porter Westover read an excel-
lent paper: “Restrain the Evil Tenden-
cies of the Child-”
	Brother Ninian Miller spoke very inter-
estingly on “The Condition of Women
before the Prophet organized the Relief
Society.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne addressed
the meeting. Said President Bathsheba
W. Smith sent her love and greetings to
all the sisters. Spoke lovingly of her and
gave a brief sketch of her early life. She
placed great confidence in the stake and
ward presidents and desires them, to a
great extent, to work out their own ideas.
The subject of social purity among our
young people has been suggested as a sub-
ject for the missionaries to speak on.
	In the afternoon session, the meeting
was again given to the sisters after the
administration of the sacrament. The
first speaker was Counselor Emma L.
Smith, who spoke on Joseph Smith’s ef-
forts to place woman in her true position.
Her remarks were interesting and could
not fail to make the congregation think
more than once of her subject.
	Sister Mary Morgan, of the St. Johns
Stake, also addressed the conference.
Spoke of the comfort she had received
from attending Relief Society meetings,
and encouraged the sisters, old and young,
to become members.

[Column 3]
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a very
beautiful address on art.
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were sustained by vote. In addition to
the Stake Board, Marie West Riggs was
sustained as Book of Mormon instructor,
and Annie Rogers assistant secretary.
	Interspersed among the speaking was a
song by Miss Ellen Adair: “Count your
ManyBlessings” also a quartette by young
ladies under the direction of Miss Mabel
Stratton, and some sayings of Brigham
Young by Master Lyman Horne. There
was also an evening session in which Sis-
ter A. M. Horne gave a lecture on house-
keeping.
	Sister May H. Larson gave an excel-
lent address on “What the Relief Socie-
ty work has done for woman.”
	Elders James M. Flake and Alof Lar-
son of the Stake Presidency made en-
couraging remarks.
	There was an organ recital by Mrs.
Nellie Hunt, a recitation by Master La-
zelle Smith, and a quartette under the
direction of Miss Adlee Lindsay.
	There was a larger attendance than we
usually have at the Relief Society con-
ferences and a genuine good feeling
seemed to be enjoyed by all.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOUTHERN ALBERTA.
A REGION OF FAT FIELDS AND FULL GRAN-
				ARIES.
	Probably no part of the continent at the
present time is undergoing more rapid ad-
vancement and receiving greater increase
in population than is that particular part
of the vast British dominion on the north
commonly known as the Canadian North-
west. Until recently figuring merely as
territories, with the disadvantages which
such a status implies, Alberta and Sas-
katchewan have now bloomed out as fully
equipped and more widely extended
provinces, their former sister terri-
tory of Assinaboia having been wiped
off the map through the changes in their
boundaries, and her loss accruing to their
great gain. Even before these changes
had taken place, the tide of immigation
from the east and south had strongly set
in, and under prosperity’s magic touch all
industries and interests began to glow.
But during last year and this, the move-
ment toward the "newest and last West," 
and the brightening of its prospects, have
been truly marvelous, if not indeed al-
most unexampled in the record of those
mysterious and irresistible migrations
where peaceful armies of the children of
men swarm out in search of new lands in
which to make new homes.
	It is less than two decades since the
earliest of Mormon colonists crossed the 
international boundary and pitched their
tents or outspanned their teams on the
broad prairies of "Sunny Southern Al-
berta." They found a goodly land, and
they have prospered exceedingly. A doz-
en or more thrifty, well-built towns—
some of them already aspiring to the met-
ropolitan conveniences of waterworks
systems and electric lights—attest the
prudent care with which these settlers
carried with them and put into practice
the lessons learned in their Utah homes. 
In a district so vast, upon acres so mag-


[Column 1]
nificent and limitless, large farms and
ranches were naturally the fashion. But
these Utahns knew the value of the school-
house and the meetinghouse—the social
aspects of life’s stern struggle were well
remembered. Hence their compact vil-
lages clustered round the more or less
pretentious structures where the young
assemble for instruction and all for wor-
ship, and where in the long winter even-
ings the monotony of existence is relieved
by concerts, lectures, dances and amateur
or peripatetic theatricals. 
	At the time of this writing, the line of
travel between these towns, whether by
train or wagon, is flanked by miles upon
miles of waving fields of golden grain.
Far as the eye can reach across the broad
level prairie, it meets this same rich pros-
pect. Now and again at close range may
be seen a group of harvesting machines,
each drawn by four stout horses, these
reapers swinging along one behind anoth-
er in joyous procession, cutting down a
wide swath of the ripened, ruddy crop,
and tossing out a steady stream of fat,
wealth-laden sheaves.
	Perhaps a group of aborigines from the
nearby Indian agency may be seen, fol-
lowing in the wake of the harvesters,
gathering the bundles into shocks or
stooks. These natives assist greatly in
the solution of the local labor problem,
white help being wholly insufficient in
quantity where farming is done on so stu-
pendous a scale; and the gaudy raiment
of the squaws,with the flashing ornaments
affected by both sexes, together with the
adjacent cluster of picturesque tepees and
the band of diminutive and almost inevita-
bly piebald ponies, lend color and variety
to the scene. Anon the mellow hum of
the early thresher may be heard, for in
this land of sudden and severe changes of
weather, the prudent farmer loses no time
between harvest and threshing—his anx-
ieties are not over till his grain is safely
stored in his bins or received into the
capacious maw of the lofty elevators or
broad warehouses which line the railway
track. Fierce and greedy in their appe-
tite are some of these monster steam
threshers. They burn either coal or straw,
and when working in good grain are capa-
ble of “shelling out” a bushel of clean
wheat every twelve to fifteen seconds. As
sixty to seventy-five bushels make a load
for the ordinary wagon and team, it will
be realized that a considerable train of
wagons are required to haul away the
grain from the thresher to the granary or
elevator. These are met along the road
or are noticed gathered about the dusty,
whirring, busy separator; and in the near
vicinity is observed also the long, low,
canvas-covered mess-wagon, which is
trailed about from field to field, being as
indispensable a part of the caravan as the
water-wagon, the coal-wagon or even the
engine itself. A well-arranged mess-wag-
on is a model of compactness and is as
convenient as such a combined kitchen,
pantry, store room, dining room and
cook’s bed-room can be made. Its pre-

[Column 2]
siding genius is usually a buxom young
woman, frequently the foreman’s daugh-
ter; and she has as assistant a younger girl
—where possible her sister—who waits on
the table during meals, helps in the dish-
washing afterwards, and between times
furnishes company for the otherwise lone
woman with the outfit.  Cooking for a
thresher crew is no sinecure; for with
breakfast at daylight, supper at “early
candle-light,” dinner at high noon, and a
generous distribution of wide, thick wedges
of pie between regular meal times, if the
machine stops for a few minutes—for your
thresher-man eats every time he gets a
chance, and all the time has an appetite
little less ravenous than the machine he
travels with—this would seem to provide
a program sufficiently strenuous for the
most industrious and exacting devotee of
the culinary art.
	Nearer the towns are the fields devoted
to the culture of that splendid wealth
producer, the sugar beet; and here, later
in the season, will be found, not only the
Lamanites of both sexes and all ages, to-
gether with their ponies and their droves
of dogs, but the white man also and his
whole family, all engaged in plowing,
pulling, “topping” and hauling the juicy
saccharine root. The skill, precision
and rapidity with which the squaws
and children whack off the tops of the
beets with a broad villanous-looking knife,
holding the beet in one hand and wield-
ing the weapon with the other, suggest
both careful practice and native dexter-
ity, for the keen blade seems to make
its way to the hairsbreadth of the proper
place and angle of decapitation.
	Within the limits of the town or vil-
lage proper are gardens whose every
product would be a prize-winner, if shown
in almost any other clime. In the
matter of vegetables, these Canada set-
tlements can hardly be surpassed, if
indeed equalled. For size, flavor, crisp-
ness—whatever the term is that means
the best that can be grown from new,
fresh, vigorous, fertile soil—the epicure
who dotes on the succulent products
which come health-laden from the bosom
of Mother Earth must not reckon his
experience filled or his soul satisfied un-
til he has tasted the good green garden
stuff of Southern Alberta.
	Of the great stock growing industry,
the rich fat-producing grasses, the sleek,
saucy “cattle upon a thousand”—not
“hills,” but prairies (there are no hills
worth mentioning)—I have as yet said
nothing. Much also might be written
about the untold and incalculable coal
measures underlying the whole country,
and numerous other splendid resources
and industries. But the limits of this
paper have been now reached, and there
remains space but for a concluding
word.
	Allusion has been made to the prosper-
ty now smiling upon the people. But it
should be borne in mind that to this
happy condition they have come up
through a full measure of tribulation.

[Column 3]
The climate is rigorous, at times severe.
It is a region of extremes of weather. In
years of drouth—and of these there have
been quite enough—it would seem that
even a lizard or a sunflower would choke
to death. In seasons of rain it has sim-
ply poured, day after day, week after
week, until the whole country was
soaked full and the badger holes ran
water like living springs. Only last win-
ter there were several dreary weeks dur-
ing which the thermometer never regis-
tered better than ten degrees below zero,
ranging from that down to fifty below.
Then there is wind, and still more wind:
wind that brings blizzards with it, wind
that warms air and soil, and melts the
snow like magic; wind that seems to
scorch and wither with its hot breath,
wind that wafts moisture and refreshing
coolness over nature’s heated face. There
are potato bugs and cutworms, mange
and mosquitoes, and as varied and vigor-
ous a collection of noxious weeds as any
farmer would wish to see. But with all
this there is health and happiness, and
there is, and there is going to be more,
wealth. The people have passed through
their period of adversity, and their future
is radiant with promise. They have
learned by experience how to meet and
make themselves comfortable under the
conditions which exist and to which they
were aforetime unaccustomed. There is
hardly one who has not bettered his cir-
cumstances by going there—not one who
with the exercise of ordinary industry and
thrift can fail to prosper. From the
severity of their earlier struggles they
have come forth refined and improved.
The toils and hardships associated with
making a beginning, with getting a bare
living even, are now things of the past.
The comforts of life, nay the luxuries,
are now in evidence on every side. Bet-
ter cultivation has made better farms
and better crops. Machinery eases the
burden of the agriculturist. His wife and
daughters, relieved of the discourage-
ments andthe drudgery which bended
their bodies and benumbed their souls,
now find time for intellectual enjoyment
in societies for philanthropic work and
associations for mutual improvement. His
sons, though they have learned and are
not ashamed of the business of farming or
ranching, can go to college. He himself
can rest serenely in the evening of his
life, feeling that in bringing his family to
the new land he has put them in the
way of sound, healthy bodies, clear, pure
minds, the glorious independence that
comes from contact with and true affec-
tion for the soil, and the possession of a
goodly inheritance of fertile acres, a por-
tion of this footstool of our God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	The several stakes of Zion are hereby
notified that the Relief Society Nurse
Class for this year will begin in Septem-
ber with the first session of the L. D. S.
University.
	The important work is under the aus-
pices of the general Board of the Relief
Society, who desire the earnest co-opera-
tion of all ward and stake presidents.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
						Instructor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

