
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 36						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JUNE, 1907.						No. 1


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
Short Talk to the Nurses Graduating Class
	...........................Margaret C. Roberts	1
Relief Society Reports:—Nebo Stake........	2
	Liberty Stake......................................	3
	Granite Stake......................................	3
	Alpine Stake.......................................	8
Mother’s Work:—Beaver Stake.................	7
In Memoriam.............................................	3
Orbituary.......:............................................	6
Editorial:—The New Volume XXXVI.......	4
	Birthday of Brigham Young...............	4
	Reception Tendered............................	5
	Editorial Notes....................................	5
	The First Relief Society......................
	.....................................Eliza R. Snow	7
Poetry:—A June Rose.........Ruth May Fox	1
	The Rainbow.....................Anonymus	3


A JUNE ROSE.
TO SISTER MARIA WILCOX, ON HER EIGHTIETH
				BIRTHDAY.
A long, long time ago.
In the glad month of June—
The month of roses,
Tilting the bough which its beauty discloses,
Fast holding the rose where the sunbeam re-
	poses,
A shy little bud burst forth into bloom.
Oh, it was such a joy
To the roses full grown,
In patience beholding
The heart of the bud so lovely unfolding,
Their own failing freshness so grandly uphold-
	ing,
To watch the results of the seed they had
	sown.
With modesty blushing,
Our rose graced the tree,
So daintily, stately;
Wooing the birds and the zephyrs innately;
Enjoving the favor of older ones greatly,
Nodding and wond’ring what the future should
	be.
The dew’s on the roses,
They are drooping in tears;
Soft voices are calling,
The petals are falling, falling, fast falling
On their mother’s calm breast—her senses en-
	thralling,
But she gathers them close and smiles at their
	fears.
To a rose fully blown
We do honor today.
Of exquisite neatness,
Rounded and full—a corolla of sweetness:
Old rose we will call it, for sake of complete-
	ness;
A life of well-doing drives old age away.
The twilight is passing,
Dear friends gone before
Are calling, soft calling;
The petals are falling, falling, fast falling;
But the way is not long, nor dark, nor appall-
	ing,
There roses bloom ever, to wither no more,
						RUTH MAY FOX.


The Norwegian women have petitioned
Parliament for the full ballot. The peti-
tion refers to “the men of Finland, who
showed magnanimity and understanding
of modern demands” in enfranchising their
women, and urged the Parliament of
Norway to take like action.


[Column 1]
SHORT TALK TO THE NURSES GRADU-
			ATING CLASS.
	BY DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS.

President Bathsheba W. Smith and Board,
Supt. Empey and Graduating Nurses:
	I am happy this day to congratulate
you upon your success in the course of
study you have so faithfully followed, and
and the excellent examination you have
passed. You have now earned the certi-
ficate of graduation given by the General
Board of the Relief Society of the Church
and authorized to practice under the aus-
pices of this society in the profession of
nursing.
	Of the nobility, importance and res-
ponsibility of this profession, I have oft-
en spoken in our class exercises, and there
would seem to be small need of refering
to these matters again. Yet experience
in teaching and your own recollection
warrant me in saying that frequent repe-
tition is essential in order to impress the
mind with things that are to be remem-
bered. “Attention,” it is said, “is the
mother of memory;” if that be granted, I
want to add, that the child memory has
need often to be jogged by repetition in
order to retain that which the mother
has committed to it. It goes without
saying that the profession of nursing
stands out at once among the most neces-
sary and honorable of callings. This is
eyerywhere acknowledged. But it seems
to me that with the Latter-day Saints it
ought to be regarded as more emphatical-
ly true than with others, and especially
so in the case of Relief Society nurses,
because, in their labor there is to be a
dash of the religious element that does
not attach to such services in other com-
munities and with ordinary nurses.
	“I was sick and ye visited me,” is
classed by the Master as among those
charity deeds that shall be remembered
in the day of judgment of men—such as
“I was an hungered and ye gave me meat;
thirsty and ye gave me drink; a stranger
and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed
me; in prison and ye came unto me.’”
And it is predicted in that scripture that
when the righteous shall say, “Lord,
when saw we thee a stranger, or naked,
or in prison or sick and came unto thee,’’
the Lord shall answer, “In as much as
ye have done it unto the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”
	It was in this spirit, I am sure, that it
was intended originally, and is now in-
tended that Relief Society nurses should
perform their work.
	In consequence of having received your
instruction at a mere nominal tuition,
you have entered into a signed contract
to do a certain amount of charity work
which is definitely stated. 
	But all the circumstances connected
with the arrangements by which you ac-
quire your profession, the organization
under which it has been possible for you
to receive it, the practically free service
of those who have instructed you, and

[Column 2]
those who will direct your services, al
require that on your part you carry
that same spirit of free service into your
charity work. Freely you have received,
now as freely and unselfishly give such
service as your contract calls for. If your
work is characterized by the spirit which
prompted the inauguration of this move-
ment, it will be possible for you to parti-
cipate in that welcome, “Come ye blessed
of my father . . for . . “I was sick
and ye visited me, . .  in as much as
ye did it unto the least of these, my breth-
ren, ye did it unto me.”
	I would like to sound a note of warn-
ing against professional pride that might
possibly stand in the way of the efficien-
cy and acceptability of your services.
Very naturally a finished workman feels
the necessity of his tools, and a nurse’s
well-instructed senses the need of the
furniture and appliances necessary to
provide for the comfort of her patient;
but it will often happen that those things
so necessary can not be supplied. What
shall be done under these circumstances?
Shall the nurse complain, be irritable,
emphasize the misfortunes of the poor,
increase their embarrassment? No, she
will do none of these things if she follows
the instructions that have been imparted.
The very absence of the usual appliances
and conveniences afford the nurse the
opportunity to exercise her patience, her
ingenuity in improvising means out of
such materials and conditions as are at
hand, meanwhile retaining that cheerful-
ness so essential in her work, and demon-
strating that skill that comes from the
ntelligent application of instruction that
has been received.
	But while urging upon you to follow
this course, still I must say once more,
—and for the last time to a class—that
you keep in mind always the dignity of
your profession and neyer cheapen it or
yourselves.
	A wrong view is sometimes enter-
tained in regard to the services of nurses,
especially Relief Society nurses. Some
are urging that they not only attend up-
on the sick, but also do the general
housework as well. I wish to say that
notion goes beyond what has been con-
templated in the Relief Society nurse-
movement.
	I would not like to be too technical in
relation to just what the services of the
nurse should be in the household, and
have no objection to our nurses reliev-
ing whatever situation may confront
them. No general rule can be suggested.
Each nurse must judge for herself what
she can and ought to do in each particu-
lar case. But I must say that the course
of study given these classes has not been
a course in general housekeeping, scrub-
bing and cleaning, but we have tried to
mpress the nurses with the idea that
their duty is to give every attention to
the sick ones that is required to add to
their comfort and bring them back to
health, or if this can not be, then the
utmost relief of suffering until death


[Column 1]
shall bring its relief. Any thing else a
nurse does must be secondary and inci-
dental. Our Relief Society organiza-
tions are not confined in their ministra-
tion among the poor to providing a nurse
for the sick, if other household help is
needed during the time of affliction, oth-
ers besides a nurse may be called upon
to render such assistance. But to you,
you nurses, your duty is to your patient
not to the rest of the household. Sub-
ordinate every other consideration.
	Judging from the experience of our
nurses in the past, you will be tempted
by monetary considerations to abandon
or slight your obligations as a Relief So-
ciety nurse. Let me admonish you not
to yield to such temptation. And re-
member this movement was instituted
especially to supply nurses for charity
work, and for those people who can not
afford to pay $15 or $25 a week, but who
can pay, and want to pay $3, $5 or $6 a
week. You are in honor bound to nurse
for these prices whenever it is necessary
during the time stated in your contract.
This should be regarded as missionary
service and the work should be done
skillfully, cheerfully, willingly, lovingly,
and as service in the Church of Christ,
in that spirit that should and does char-
acterize all real service rendered to hu-
manity in the name of the Master.
	Nor should this service be rendered in
any sectarian spirit—to members, of your
own church only, for, as God causes his
sun to shine on both the evil and the
good, and the rain to fall upon, the just
and the unjust alike; so should your
charity services be given. It must be
enough for you to know that there is
poverty and sickness combined and that
you are called upon in your professional
capacity to help relieve it. Time would
fail me to say all that I would desire to
say to you so anxious am I that you
should succeed and perpetuate in your
work the spirit of the Relief Society
movement that has been so dear to me
both in its inception and development
up to this time. It is an undertaking, if
I may be so bold as to say it, that is most
in keeping both with the name and the
mission of that first and what well might
be the greatest auxiliary organization of
the Church, the Relief Society.
	One other thought I feel impressed to
voice, though not immediately con-
nected with your graduation, and duties
as nurses. Some years ago, President
Brigham Young recognizing the fact that
in some departments of the physician’s
calling, namely, obstetrics and children’s
diseases, it was possible for women to
perform the service as well as, if not
even better than men physicians, and
urged a number of young women to
qualify for that profession in some of
the medical colleges in the East. In
response to this advice and encouraged
by him, several of the young Utah wo-
men went East, studied, graduated and
for some years have practiced their pro-
fession in the state. I observe, however,
that none of our young women seem
ambitious to succeed them in their work,
nor are they; so far as I know, receiv-
ing any encouragement to do so.
	Believing, hwever, in the inspiration
that prompted President Brigham Young
to move in this matter, I venture to call
attention to the subject on this occasion.
We shall soon be without lady prac-

[Column 2]
ticing physicians, so far as the Latter-
day Saints are concerned, unless steps
are taken to call others to this profes-
sion, as it requires at the very least, a
high school education in order to enter
medical colleges, and then four years to
complete the course. 
	Very properly, I think, the Relief So-
ciety, under whose auspices we are met
here to day, could take the initiative in
this matter and search out young women
who could take up this profession. 
	I feel a perfect freedom in giving en-
couragement to women to take up the
profession of medicine and of nursing,
because in doing so, I but urge them to
engage in the noblest, most useful calling
which women can follow. And this not
only because it is good to relieve suffer-
ing and nurse people from pain and sick-
ness back to ease and health, but for the
reason of the moral power these profes-
sions enable them to use. If you except
perhaps the occupation of the priest,
there is no other calling which brings
men and women into such close relation-
ship to their fellows as the ministration
of the physician and the nurse, and that
at a time when those with whom they
come in contact are in such condition as
to be influenced for good. The physical
powers are somewhat weakened, and un-
der such conditions, the mind is more
open to moral and spiritual influences
than at other times.
	During the period of illness and con-
valescence, the physician and nurse have
their opportunity for influencing for good
the lives of those who come under their
watch-care; and I am confident from both
observation and experience that there
are few who have greater chances for be-
ing a power that makes for righteousness
in this world than the conscientious God-
fearing physician. I am happy to say
that in the great majority of cases, it is
my firm conviction that the men and wo-
men of my profession avail themselves of
their opportunities and are a real moral
force in society. Nurses with opportun-
ities well-nigh equal, can be, and I be-
lieve for the most part are also a moral
power. I feel sure that this class now
graduating are capable of this high moral
service in the families and the communi-
ty where they will practice their profes-
sion. None of the classes which I have
taught and who have graduated under
the auspices of the Relief Society have
had so good opportunities as this class
and none have made better use of their
advantages. I am well satisfied with the
intellectual and moral status of these
graduates, and I am confident that they
are capable of efficiency in the practice
of their profession, and also in their abili-
ty for being moral forces whereever their
lot may be cast. To this labor so broad
in its scope, so full of possibilities for
good, I commend you, nurses, with all
my heart.
	May 13, 1907.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Nebo Stake Relief Socity held at Ben-
jamin meeting house, Utah, April 26,
1907. President Eliza J. Dixon presiding:
after the opening exercises, Sister Bing-
ham, President of Benjamin ward, spoke
a few words of welcome. Sister Dixon

[Column 2]
spoke of the great effort that had been
put forth in the erection of their new
meeting house, prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us on this occasion,
we are working in a noble cause.
	President Wall reported Santaquin
ward. She had a band of willing sisters
to do their duty, also said that a mother’s
first duty was to her children, that she
was the only one living in that ward, that
knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, “we
should all be one in the Lord if we are
not one we are not his.”
	Sister Ferguson, President of Lake
Shore ward gave in her report, they had
a hard time in winter on account of bad
roads and their scattered condition.
	Payson, first ward, reported by Sister
Alispach, they have on hand among
other things 56 dollars missionary fund,
she enjoyed her labors in Relief Society
work, said may God help us to be faithful
and firm in the Gospel.
	Payson, second ward, President Ells-
worth said “we are engaged in the work
of the Lord.” 36 dollars missionary fund
on hand gave it to the bishop to use as
needed for the missionaries.
	Song, Lois Mace.
	Sister Evans spoke on the Relief So-
ciety conference, held in Salt Lake City,
April 4th, referred particularly to a speech
made by Sister Dusenberry and spoke of
the welcome speech by President B. W.
Smith “it was a mistake in thinking that
none but elderly sisters should belong to
the Relief Society.
	Rec. Sister Nora Hone, “Selling the
Farm.”
	Bishop Johnson said how pleased he
was to meet with the Relief Society sist-
ers, said he was not a stranger in the so-
ciety in his ward, spoke on the society
work, he had been fed and clothed by
strangers while on a mission, he did not
think that sisters could be good members
of the Church and not belong to the Relief
Society, welcomed all to his ward.
	President Dixon gave a few words of
encouragement.
	Closed by singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.”
	Prayer by Brother Alpheus Bingham.
	2 o’clock p. m. conference reconvened.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing, Prayer by Brother William Stewart,
singing.
	Sister Kappel of the stake presidency
gave some of the conference news, said
we should prepare ourselves for the com-
ing of the Savior, spoke of President
Jos. F. Smith’s message to the world.
	Sister Emily Bingham read a paper on
nursing and nurse work.
	Quartett by Sister Hazel Ludlow and
others.
	Paper read by Sister Morrison on
“Motherhood and Child Culture,”
	Sister Mary Brown of the Stake Board
spoke on Relief Society work.
	Patriarch Evans gave the conference
some good instructions; “it gave him
pleasure to listen to the remarks of the
sisters, spoke on race suicide and its
consequences in another life.
	Sister Dixon spoke on the 58 sec. of
Doc. and Cov.
	Closed by the choir singing an anthem,
“Sun of my soul.”
	Benediction by Brother Henry Hone.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE RAINBOW.
The evening was glorious, and light through the
	trees
Played tho sunshine and rain drops, the birds and
	the breeze;
The landscape outstretching in loveliness lay
On the lap of the year, in the beauty of May.
For the Queen of the Spring, as she passed down
	the vale,
Left her robe on the trees, and her breath on the
	gale;
And the smile of her promise gave joy to the
	hours,
And fresh in her footsteps sprang herbage and
	flowers.
The skies like a banner in sunset enrolled,
O’er the west threw their splendor of azure and
	gold;
But one cloud at a distance rose dense and in-
	creased,
Till its margin of black touched the zenith and
	east.
We gazed on the scenes while around us they
	glowed,
When a vision of beauty appeared on the cloud:—
'Twas not like the Sun as at midday we view,
Nor the Moon that rolls nightly through starlight
	and blue.
Like a spirit it came in the van of the storm,
And the eye and the heart hailed its beautiful
	form;
For it looked not severe, like an Angel of Wrath,
But its garment of brightness illumed its dark
	path.
In the hues of its grandeur, sublimely it stood,
O’er the river, the village, the field and the wood;
And river, field, village and woodlands grew
	bright—
As conscious they gave and afforded delight.
’Twas the bow of Omnipotence, bent in His hand
Whose grasp at Creation the universe spanned
’Twas the presence of God, in a symbol sublime,
His vow from the flood to the exit of Time!
Not dreadful, as when in the whirlwind He
	pleads,
When storms are His chariot, and lightnings His
	steeds,
The black clouds His banner of vengeunce un-
	furled,
And thunder His voice to a guilt-stricken world.
In the breath of His presence, when thousands
	expire,
When seas boil with fury, and rocks burn with fire,
And the sword and the plague-spot with death
	strew the plain,
And vultures, and wolves, are the graves of the
	slain.
Not such was the Rainbow, that beautiful one!
Whose arch was refraction, its key-stone the Sun;
A pavilion it seemed which the Deity graced,
And Justice and Mercy met there and embraced.
Awhile and it sweetly bent over the gloom,
Like Love oe’r a death-couch, or Hope o’er the
	tomb;
Then left the dark scene; whence it slowly re-
	tired,
As if Love had just vanished, or Hope had ex-
	pired.
I gazed not alone on that source of my song;
To all who beheld it these verses belong;
Its presence to all was the path of the Lord;
Each full heart expanded, grew warm, and adored.
Like a visit—the converse of friends—or a day,
That bow, from my sight, passed forever away;
Like that visit, that converse, that day—to my
	heart—
That bow from remembrance can never depart.
’Tis a picture in memory distinctly defined,
With the strong and unperishing colors of mind;
A part of my being beyond my control,
Beheld in that cloud, and transcribed in my soul.
							ANONYMOUS


Mme. Marie Cazin, the widow of the
eminent landscape painter, and Mme.
Madeleine Lemaire, have been elected
members of the “New” Salon jury.


[Column 1]
		R. S. EEPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Liberty Stake Relief Society convened
in the 2nd ward meetinghouse. June 7,
1907, at ten a. m. and 2 p. m., President
Annie S, Musser presiding. After the
usual opening exercises, including the
Temple work, 61 persons officiated for,
the 7th, and 3rd and 8th wards were re-
ported as being in a prosperous condi-
tion.
	Miss Kenner favored us with a solo,
and Sister Joaanna Angel read an editor-
ial from the Woman’s Exponent.
	The missionaries, Sisters Emma Carter,
Martha Nolan and Sarah Swift, gave us
some good instruction, and were followed
by President Annie S. Musser, Counselors
Zerviah G. Eardley and Mary E. Hodg-
son, who spoke of their visit to all the
aged, sick and afflicted in the stake, also
gave some good advice and words of en-
couragement to all present. After sing-
ing and benediction, conference adjourned
until 2 o’clock. At the afternoon session
we had Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry and
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie of the General
Board with us. After singing “Come let
us anew,” and prayer by Sister Martha
Morris, Miss Ball favored us with a solo.
	Counselor Hodgson presented the
names of the General Board also the
names of the Stake Board; all were unan-
imously sustained.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry said that
she enjoyed Relief Society work, urged
the mothers to gain the love and confid-
ence of their ehildren while they are
young, related incidents of neglected
childhood that we might help to avert.
	Sister Mary A. H. White gave a sketch
of the life of her father, Apostle Orson
Hyde, which was very interesting and
much enjoyed.
	President Musser gave a synopsis of the
work performed by the Stake Board
and the Relief Society in the several
wards. Sister Phebe Y. Beatie felt that
Latter-day Saints had more temptations
to overcome than any other people and
especially the young. Let us strive to
guide them by love, also to cultivate
patience.
	Sister Sarah Mitchell had been called
to work among the young people by the
priesthood, especially those without
homes or parents in the city, made a
few remarks in regard to the work.
	The Relief Society excursion to Saltair
was announced. Minutes of the confer-
ence were read and accepted. After sing-
ing and benediction by Sister Lizzie Rob-
bins, conference adjourned for six
months.
			LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

		GRANITE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Granite
stake Relief Society was held on Tuesday,
June 11th, at the Stake Tabernacle at 10
a. m. President E. S. Woodruff presid-
ing.
	There were present, three members of
the General Board, 17 stake, and a large
number of local officers, and members.
	President E. S. Woodruff related some
interesting incidents of her life, and her
experiences in Nauvoo, and her journey
“across the plains.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry of the Gen-

[Column 2]
eral Relief Society gave an eloquent ad-
dress, on the responsibilities of parents
in the training of their children, and Sis-
ter Sarah J. Cannon also spoke on the
same subject.
	The beautiful singing by the Emerson
ward Relief Society choir, added greatly
to the pleasure of the meeting.
	A dainty lunch was served to the visit-
ors by the members of the stake board
between meetings.
	The afternoon program was a continua-
tion of the “Lives of our leaders,” a feat-
ure which has become very popular in our
conferences during the past two years.
“The Life of Jedediah M. Grant” being
the subject chosen.
	We were favored with the presence of
Apostle Heber J. Grant, Elder B. F.
Grant, Sister Rachel Grant and many
others of the descendants of Pres. J. M.
Grant. Apostle Grant took charge of the
meeting and also led the singing.
	A biographical Sketch was read by Sis-
ter Dessie Grant, in which Bro. Grant
was characterized as a great preacher of
righteousness, an ardent missionary of the
church, as well as a General of the Nau-
voo Legion, and Indian fighter, 1st Mayor
of Salt Lake City, and a faithful good
man, “faithful, unto death.”
	Elder B. F. Grant spoke of his father’s
missionary labors in the Southern States,
and related some amusing incidents con-
nected with his work there. Apostle
Heber J. Grant paid a high tribute to the
loyalty of his father to the truth, and of
his great boldness in proclaiming his be-
lief at all times, of his ardent labors dur-
ing the “Reformation” in Utah. Said
that having goodly parents was a great
blessing.
	An excellent musical program was ren-
dered by the “Grant” family as follows:
	Trio. “Lullaby” Misses Edith, Florence,
and Mary Grant.
	Duett. “Little Boy Blue” Misses Emily
and Frances Grant.
	Solos were sung by Miss Edith Grant,
Apostle H. J. Grant, Mrs. Lutie G. Can-
non, and Florence Grant, accompanied
by Miss Mary Grant.
	Piano Solo by Miss Grace Grant.
	Elder B. Morris Young, Jr., who re-
cently turned from Europe favored us
with a delightful violin solo, accompanied
by Miss Ida Whittaker.
	Sister Rachel Grant spoke on her past
life and her early experiences in Nauvoo.
	After benediction conference was ad-
journed three months.
				LUCY M. GREEN.


IN MEMORIAM.
	On the 22nd day of March, 1907, our dear
sister and friend, Emma, the beloved wife of John
B. Pratt of Hinckley, departed this life. She left
a family of a husband and six children, the eldest
a girl of about thirteen years.
	Sister Emma’s death cast a gloom over the
whole community, as everyone that knew her
loved her sweet and sunny disposition, She was
on hand at every call, and true and faithful to
every trust. 
	She was born at Lehi, August 31st 1876, Died
at Provo hospital, March 22nd, 1907. Although
we miss her at our gatherings, yet we do not
mourn as those without hope, for we feel that when
the Lord makes up his jewels we shall meet our
dear sister again. May God grant it.
				CATHARINE A. ALLRED,
					Sec. Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake C y, Utah 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers del v
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
secon

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		JUNE, 1907.


[Column 1]
	THE NEW VOLUME XXXVI.
	This number is the initial one of an-
other volume of our little paper, and as
these are times of great progress in the
Reliel Society, and among women gener-
ally, and more especially the women of
our own Church, it would seem essential
that the sisters should renew and increase
the subscriptions, that a greater interest
might be taken in making it more than
ever, truly representative of the magnific-
ent work in which the women of Zion are
taking part.
	President Brigham Young said to the
editor, “Make the sisters understand that
it is their record, their history, and let it
be preserved as such;” biographies of the
celebrated women of the Church, was
one of the subjects he insisted upon hav-
ing published. A large number of these
have been written and are on record for
reference; during the past year in connec-
tion with the mothers’ work, these histor-
ies of our departed sisters, and of some
who are living now, have been studied
and brought before the society in many
wards, so that numbers of our women,
who had only heard the names of these
remarkable characters, who were asso-
ciated with the founding of the Church in
this dispensation, have learned of their
lives and what they passed through, in
the days of the early struggles for the
establishment of what is now so great an
organization as the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. Every phase of
the real public work of our women has
been duly recorded in this little paper;
and the books are kept, they have been
bound in volumes by some of the sisters,
and might have been by many others had
they taken a little care to preserve
them.
	It is wefl for the sisters to realize that
they are making history all the time, as
the days and months and years roll on;
so that even if books were written they
only cover a certain period; but a paper
or periodical carries forward what is be-
ing done on and on, Perhaps there are
some of our sisters who have never given
this idea a thought, but when they want
some particular fact or item on a subject
in which they are especially interested
then they enquire where such material
can be found. There is seldom a day in
the office of this paper, that there are not
inquiries made concerning past events, or
circumstances relating to woman’s work

[Column 2]
that necessitate reference to the Expon-
ent; and letters from all quarters (one
might almost say) that must be replied
to if the information can be obtained by
hunting through bound volumes.
	This is only a hint to the sisters, who
are not in a position to know about these
things. In view of the great good that
has been done in the past since the paper
first came into existence, and in consider-
ation of the greater and much more im-
portant future, we trust the sisters of the
Relief Society in all the several stakes of
Zion and in all the wards of the stakes,
will take hold of the matter and see what
can be done to maintain what is to each
one of them, and to every woman in Zion
a repository of the actual philanthropic
and religious work done by themselves as
a great organization, the very greatest and
grandest there is anywhere.
	It is difficult amid the accumulation of
cares and duties that come into every day
of the lives of these dear sisters, to dwell
upon the vast magnitude of the work in
general, and to think of their own share in
it, yet each one is an essential factor of
the great whole; and each member of the
society, which was organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith himself for the
betterment of the women of Zion, as well
as for the amelioration and care of the
sick and the needy, is uplifted in the best
sense of the word by the furtherance of
the work in its increasing magnitude and
power for the good of communities, and
society at large in all the places where a
foothold has been obtained to introduce
the Gospel.
	If it were possible to speak to each in-
dividual woman and impress each one
with the vast importance of the Relief
Society, in a “heart to heart talk,” one
might then hope for successful results;
however such personal conversation is not
possible for any one, however deeply one
may be impressed, therefore it rests with
those of our sisters who appreciate the
Exponent, fully realizing what it might
be to our sisters in the great future, to do
what is possible in each ward to awaken
an interest in the matter, so that they
shall not have any delinquencies or irreg-
ularities in the issue of the paper, and
that will in itself render it of much more
valuable assistance to the Society.
	There are those dear sisters who have
never faltered in their allegiance, and
who always pay promptly and in advance,
notably Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, Sis-
ter Jane S. Richards, Sister Julia C.
Howe, Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Sister Eliza R. Snow, who together with
President Brigham Young was instru-
mental in founding the paper, used to pay
every year in advance for two copies; we
mention these facts to show how desirous
these good, faithful sisters are to have the
paper better supported.
	There are other women outside of our
Society and Church who take the paper
and pay for it, and think it worth the
while, and possibly our readers all know
there are those in missions and afar off,
who need the paper in their work and
whose circumstances are such that they
are entitled to have it sent to them free.
In fact, the Woman’s Exponent travels
far into many countries, and into many
homes of the lowly and of the high-born.
Women of distinction in literary circles,
authors and writers have spoken in com-
plimentary terms of it, and even men,

[Column 3]
who have traveled far and wide, have
commended it as containing nothing ob-
jectionable, as they say “all American
papers do,” meaning sensational matter,
scandals and divorces, etc.
	Certainly the Woman’s Exponent has
been a benefit and help to the women of
Zion, and let us hope and believe that as
there is now a much wider field open for
advancement along many lines that it
may have increased influence, by the
larger encouragement in the increase of
patronage.


BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	The first day of June, Saturday, 1907,
was the anniversary of the birthday of
President Brigham Young, and according
to the custom which has been established
many years now, a large gathering of the
Young family was held in honor of the
memory of this great pioneer-founder of
Utah, its first governor and for thirty
years President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, a longer ad-
ministration than that of any other Presi-
dent.
	The people of this Western country, all
of them, should honor the memory of
Brigham Young; he it was who sought
out these valleys, who lead the people as
a veritable Moses out of the boundaries
of civilization, and who, under the
inspiration of the Lord made it possible
for thousands to come hither and find
homes and protection. His wisdom and
prudence in devising and calculating the
whole scheme of converting the then
arid desert into habitable cities and towns
with every advantage essential for the
growth and maintenance of family life,
and vegetation of the greatest variety,
are apparent to all those who knew the
man, the great master-mind.
	It is true he was surrounded with great
men, with stalwarts possessing the pion-
eer spirit, but the fact still remains that
in any question arising among them, they
all looked to him, and yielded to his
superior judgment. His capacity to see
what was necessary to be done in making
the country fruitful to the highest degree
in all that was essential in the preserva-
tion of life of man and beast was marvel-
ous.
	Too much honor cannot be shown by
his posterity and those who have par-
taken of the blessings of this Western
civilization. However his works praise
him everywhere, all about us “he lives
in deeds,” is emphatically true of Brigham
Young. He had many honorable titles,
but his name wherever it is spoken is a
eulogy in itself. Foremost among those
who assembled at Wandemere on that
day and who were called upon to speak to
the people, was our present great and
inspired leader, President Joseph F.
Smith, who paid the highest tribute to
the memory of Brigham Young that it is
possible for one great man to pay to
another. It was a powerful discourse
and his eloquence appealed to the
assembled multitude as that of no other
man could have done. Many of those
present had never known Brigham
Young personally and the time is not far
distant when there will be very few who
knew him intimately, as many do who
are now living.


There were a great number of his pos-
terity there on that occasion and it is
hoped they listened to the words of the
great leaders of the Church who addressed
them, telling of his magnanimous work
for the good of Israel and of humanity;
a philanthropist of the highest order, a
benefactor to all the world was Brigham
Young.
	These annual gatherings of the poster-
ity of the men who have been instru-
mental in building up the country, and
making “the desert blossom as the rose,”
should be perpetuated, that their children
and children’s children, down to the latest
generation may honor them; and that all
who have derived benefits through the
efforts of these noble men, who gave
their lives and the best of their manhood
to make this country desirable for free-
dom, protection, civil and religious liber-
ty for all law-abiding citizens, should
know to whom they are indebted for
these great blessings, that their names
may be engraven on the tablets of mem-
ory imperishable throughout all time.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RECEPTION TENDERED.
	On Tuesday, June 11, 1907, the newly
installed officers of the Relief Society of
Davis county honored the retiring presi-
dent, Sister Susan Grant, and her Board
at Farmington in a most superb and en-
joyable way. The meeting house was
fragrant with the perfume of roses and
other flowers. At eleven in the morning
a meeting was held with religious exer-
cises and suitable program rendered. An
original song by Sister Lucy A. Clark was
sung, and each paper read or address
made was complimentary in the best
sense of Sister Grant and her fellow
workers, Sisters Jane Holt, Wealthy A.
Clark and Phebe Sessions, who had la-
bored so long and diligently in the inter-
est of the Relief Society in Davis stake.
	PresidentsHyrum Grant and James Eld-
redge were on the stand, which was well
filled with representative women of the
stake, including both the retiring officers
and the newly appointed ones. There
were twe sisters from Salt Lake City—
Sisters E. B. Wells and J. P. M. Farns-
worth, who both spoke of the praisewor-
thy life and labors of Sister Grant in
eulogistic terms; Sister Wells read a poem
written in her honor, entitled “After
Many Years.” After the program, which
consisted of one selection from each ward
in the stake, address, paper, poem, etc.,
the president, Minerva E. R. Knowlton,
with a very modest but heartfelt speech,
presented the late president and officers
with handsome gifts, appropriately chos-
en, from the sisters for whom they had
labored so long, Sister Grant having offici-
ated as president twenty-one years last
January.
	After the close of the exercises the
guests all repaired to the Lagoon, where
a sumptuous banquet was partaken of,
and greatly enjoyed by all, and the most
delightful interchange of friendliness par-
ticipated in during the afternoon.
	It is indeed most commendable to hon-
or in some such way, while they are still
living,those who have striven so long and
so unselfishly for the good of others. It
is a beautiful custom to pay homage to
those worthy sisters whose days have
been passed in labors of fove.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	The General Officers of the Primary As-
sociation gave a delightful reception at 
the Lion House on Saturday evening, 
June 8, 1907, to the visiting officers from 
various stake organizations and also en-
tertained as guests the First Presidency 
of the Church and Apostles with their 
wives, and the General Officers of the 
Relief Society. It was a unique affair, 
the exercises in harmony with the objects 
of the society itself, such as appeal to 
children. There was excellent music, 
some fancy dancing, and also quadrilles, 
etc., a few hymns were sung as solos, the
evening’s entertainment opened and 
closed with prayer. Bouquets of flowers 
were presented to the president, Louie B. 
Felt, who wtth her luxuriant white hair 
gracefully arranged, and dignified manner, 
made a charming picture in the midst of 
the festivity. Truly the children of Zion
have excellent training by these noble 
women who are devoting their lives to
the work for the little ones. Miss May 
Anderson, who has been many years
an effiicient assistant to Mrs. Felt, had 
charge of the evening’s program.
	Mrs. John Groesbeck gave a very 
charming lunch party for her mother, Mrs. 
Margaret Clawson, at her handsome new 
home on First street, on Saturday after-
noon, May 23. Everything was in excel-
lent taste, and the menu was delicious and 
daintily served. Beautiful flowers ex-
quisitely arranged, and more than all the 
dear, delightful social intercourse of old-
time friends. We are very grateful to
Mrs. Groesbeck and her sisters who helped
her to honor her mother and her mother’s
friends, and to give them such a pleasant 
opportunity to meet and greet each other 
once again as in former days. Mrs. Mar-
garet Clawson has always been a great 
favorite in home circles, where the best 
of real sociability is realized as coming 
from the heart. 
	On Friday, May 31, an afternoon tea
was given at the beautiful residence of 
Mrs. Lou Groesbeck McCune, her mother,
Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck joining with her 
in giving their mutual friends an exceed-
ingly pleasant afternoon. The home is 
dainty in all its appointments, and the 
mother and daughter delightfully hospit-
able and entertaining. One recalls at such 
times the “Pennsylvania Dilworths,”
who were noted for giving exquisite din-
ners in olden times at Nauvoo and in 
early days in the valley, when luxuries 
were not so plentiful as nowadays. In 
such companionship it is difficult to know 
how time goes, but suffice to say it flies 
all too quickly. 
	The Daughters of the Pioneers met in 
the Lion House, Wednesday, June 26, 
before closing for summer vacation, at 3
p.m., the usual hour, and were favored 
with some notable guests. President F.
M. Lyman and wife, U. S. Senator Reed
Smoot and Apostle Heber J. Grant. Each 
of these famous men occupied a few mo-
ments in reminiscences of early pioneer 
life in the west. There were also present 
Janet Young Easton and Rosalie Kimball
Edwards; Sister Easton, the daughter of 
the great pioneer Brigham Young and his 
wife Clara Decker Young, who accom-
panied him on that memorable journey in
1847; Sister Edwards the daughter of an-
other great pioneer, Heber C. Kimball

[Column 2]
and his wife Ellen Saunders Kimball, who 
accompanied him en route on that mem-
orable journey in 1847; the wife of Elder 
Lorenzo D. Young was the only other 
woman with this first company of pion-
eers. There are none of them living now, 
but there are still a few women living 
who came with the large company that 
followed the pioneers the same year, a[-]d 
two of them were present at this meeting
—Sister Ann Cannon Woodbury, then a 
young girl, and Sister Louisa Nor[-]s
Decker, who was only a child, but who 
was old enough to remember the brutal 
killing of her father by the mob in Nau-
voo, her mother’s death following a few 
weeks after, leaving her to be cared for 
by strangers. The day was interesting in 
many ways, and the “Daughters” may con-
gratulate themselves on a very successful 
year. A committee was appointed to take 
in hand and devise methods for organizing
a larger association of all the sons and 
daughters of the early pioneers, that might 
hold annual gatherings on the 24th of July.


THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.
		BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
	According to authentic testimony an
organization of which the present (Fe-
male) Relief Society is a fac-simile, has
always existed when the Church of Jesus
Christ has been fully organized. “Elect
Lady,” as it occurs in the New Testament,
has direct reference to the same, alluding
to one who presided over this institution.
(See 2d Epistle of John, 1st verse.)
	The first organization of this society in
the present dispensation was effected on
the 17th of March, 1842, by Joseph Smith,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, assisted by other
prominent Elders. His apology for de-
ferring the organization till that period
was the great pressure of duties, labors
and responsibilities which devolved upon
him. By his suggestion a meeting was
appointed in the Masonic Hall and a lim-
ited number invited.
	Nauvoo Lodge Room, March 17, 1842,
Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed
secretary.
	The meeting commenced by singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
and prayer by Elder Taylor.
	It was moved by President Smith
and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that a
vote be taken to know if all are satisfied
with each female present, and are willing
to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the privileges of the
institution about to be formed. The vote
was unanimous.
	President Smith addressed the meeting
to illustrate the object of the Society;
that the Society of sisters might provoke
to good works in looking after the wants
of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc., to assist by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of
the female community, and save the El-
ders the trouble of rebuking, etc. He pro
posed that the sisters elect a presiding
officer, choose two counselors that he
would ordain them and let them pre-
side over the society just as the Presiden-
cy preside over the Church; and, if they
need his instruction, ask him and he
would give it from time to time; and let
this presidency serve as a constitution.


[Column 1]
	If any officers are wanted to carry out
the designs of the institution, let them
be appointed and set apart as deacons,
teachers, etc., are among us. The min-
utes of your meetings will be precedents
for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of
electing a presidency to continue in office
during good behavior or so long as they
shall fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney and sec-
onded by Mrs. Packard that Mrs. Emma
Smith be chosen president; passed unani-
mously.
	On suggestion of President Smith, the
presidentess elect make choice of Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth
Ann Whitney for counselors. 
	After which, the ceremony of ordina-
tion was performed. When President
Smith resumed his remarks, giving in-
structions how to govern themselves in
their meetings, what order to observe,
how to regulate discussions, etc., and
concluded by saying “Do not injure the
character of any one; if members of the
society shall conduct improperly, deal
with them and keep all your doings with-
in your own bosoms, and hold all charac-
ters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Tay-
lor vacate the chair, and President Em-
ma Smith and her counselors take the
chair.
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by
President Joseph Smith, that we go
into an investigation respecting what this
Society shall be called, which was carried
unanimously.
	(The discussion, which was lengthy and
interesting, is wholly omitted.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appoined secretary, and Miss Phebe
M. Wheeler, assistant secretary, and Miss
Elvira A. Coles (the late Mrs. Holmes),
treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said “I now
declare this society organized with Presi-
dent and Counselors, etc., according to
parliamentary usages, and all who shall
hereafter be admitted into this society
must be free from censure and received
by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by
saying that he was much gratified in see-
ing a meeting of this kind in Nauvoo; his
heart rejoiced when he saw the most dis-
tinguished characters stepping forth in a
cause which is calculated to bring into
exercise every virtue, and give scope to
the benevolent feelings of the female
heart; he rejoiced to see this institution
organized according to the law of heaven;
his prayer was that the blessings of God
and the peace of heaven may rest upon
this institution henceforth.
	After singing “Now let us Rejoice,”
the meeting adjourned for one week.
	Dismissed by prayer.
	Before retiring, each gentleman pres-
ent gave a liberal donation to commence
the funds of the institution.
	The following lines were found written
on a scrap of paper and lying on an open
Bible in the room where, and at the time
when, the society was organized, which
have been carefully preserved and tran-
scribed as an appropriate frontispiece to
the F. R. S. Book of Records:
	“O Lord, help our widows and fatherless chil-
dren! So mote it be. Amen. With the SWORD 
and the WORD of TRUTH, defend Thou them. So
mote it be. Amen.”

[Column 2]
When organized the society consisted
of eighteen members, inclusive of its offi-
cers. This number augmented from time
to time until at the close of the fiscal year,
it amounted to 1158. The meetings were so
large that the largest hall in the city was
densely crowded and it became necessary
to adjourn to the Grove the usual place
in the summer for holding Sabbath meet-
ings, which was provided with a suitable
stand and a supply of seats for large as-
semblies.
	The society soon became so popular
that even those of doubtful character in
several instances applied for admission,
and to prevent imposition by extending
membership to such ones inadvertently,
stricter rules were adopted than seemed
requisite at first. Each one wishing to
join the Society was required to present
a certificate of her good moral character
signed by two or more responsible
persons.
	The meetings were opened and closed
with prayer, and systematic order was
observed throughout. In each meeting
reports were given by those whose duty
it was to visit from house to house and in-
quire into the circumstances of the sick
and destitute—donations were received
and those subjects discussed which ap-
pertain to woman’s duties, influence and
responsibilities, etc., whatever has a ten-
dency to benefit and elevate society at
home and abroad.
	Frequently President Joseph Smith,
Bishop N. K. Whitney and brethren of
the Twelve met with the sisters and
through the inspiration of the Spirit of
God, imparted rich counsel and intelli-
gence; instructing not only in duties con-
cerning the poor, but also in all the rela-
tions of life, as wives, mothers, daugh-
ters, sisters, as Saints of the Most High,
our duties to one another, and our res-
ponsibilities as examples to the world, etc.
	The first winter after the Society was
organized was exceedingly cold and se-
vere. Many in consequence of exposure
and hardship in their expulsion from the
state of Missouri and the unhealthiness
of the climate of Nauvoo, had been re-
duced by sickness to destitution and had
it not been for the timely aid of the F.
R. Society would have suffered very
much and probably some would have
perished.
	About the last of July, 1842, when
some of the officials of Missouri were tak-
ing measures to drag President Joseph
Smith from Illinois by an illegal process,
the F. R. Society sent a petition to
Thomas Carlin, governor of Illinois in
behalf of President Smith, claiming his
protection as chief magistrate. The pe-
tition was signed by every member of the
society, and presented by its President,
Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs.
Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow.
The governor’s residence was in Quincy,
fifty miles south from Nauvoo.
	The following is transcribed from my
journal written after my return: E. R. S.
	“The governor received us with much cordiality
and politeness as his excellency was master of, as-
suring us of his protection by saying that the laws
and constitution of our country shall be his polar
star in case of any difficulty. He manifested
much friendship, and it remains for time and cir-
cumstance to prove the sincerity of his protesta-
tions.”
	We subsequently ascertained that at

[Column 3]
the very time that the ladies of Nauvoo
were visiting him presenting the petition
and listening to his protestations of friend-
ship and love for legal right and justice,
his emissaries were engaged in secret
plotting in his behalf against the rights
and safety of President Smith, and aiding
the unprincipled blood-hounds of Mis-
souri. But whatever the result, the F.
R. Society had made a noble effort,
and it was compensated by knowing
that the great, good man, Joseph Smith
appreciated it.
	The city of Nauvoo was divided into
four wards and, after the Society became
too numerous to convene in one assem-
bly, it was decided to meet alternately
in the different wards from week to week
so as to give equal opportunities to all.
	President Joseph Smith donated a city
lot to the Society for the purpose of mak-
ing homes for the homeless, and also to
furnish work to those who were able to
work and men out of employment, which
he proposed deeding to the treasurer and
her successors in office for the Society.
He also donated the frame of a house,
and made arrangements for it to be
moved on the aforesaid lot for a com-
mencement of the establishment. But
this benevolent and judicious project,
with many others which were designed
for the amelioration of the condition of
suffering humanity, was blasted in the
bud by the blighting hand of religious
persecution, and through which the once
beautiful city of Nauvoo became a deso-
lation, and its inhabitants exiled to
Mexico.
	God, who makes the wrath of man to
praise Him, has overruled, as He ever
does, in all things for the good of them
who put their trust in Him.
	In having been driven from a city, we
have become a Territory—should have
been a State—and here the Female Re-
lief Society more amply developed than
in Nauvoo, has extended its borders in
every ward and settlement from Bear
Lake in the north to Santa Clara in the
south, and yet as seen in prospective it
has but little more than emerged from its
embryo state in comparison to its great
future.
	Published in the first numbers of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, June 1 and 15, 1872.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Ellen Redman Hutchinson, born at Luddington
Yorkshire, England, May 17, 1833.
	Emigrated to Utah in ox teams, enduring cheer-
fully the trials and privations incident to such a
trip. She with her husband settled in Salt Lake
City, afterwards moving to Deseret, Millard Co.,
being among the first settlers of that place; taking
her share of trial and privation, as well as Indian
troubles with the rest of her brethren and sisters.
At one time an old Indian came to her house ask-
ing for food and everything else which he could
see. When Sister Hutchinson refused to give the
things to him, he pulled out his knife. Sister
Hutchinson took up the fire shovel with a good
supply of fire on it, and ran after the Indian. He
ran away as fast as possible, and did not come
back.
	For many years she was an officer in the Des-
eret Primary Association, also a teacher in the
Rellef Society both in Deseret and Hinckley, to,
which place they moved from Deseret She was a
kind mother and great friend to the needy, depriv-
ing herself of needful food many times to give to
others. For five years she suffered from paralysis,
which she bore without a murmur. She finally
was seized with la grippe, and died at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. James Garrett, at
Nephi.
			NAOMI R. THEOBOLD,
				President Hinckley R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK
		BEAVER STAKE.
	Lesson I. Industry.
	(a) For children to realize that home
is the dearest place on earth, they must
be taught to make it so by their own in-
dustry. (b) Teach them to take pride in
their surroundings and in the way they
care for them, (by precept or example).
(c) Let them share responsibility, (why?).
(d) Teach them the value of time in all
their undertakings. (e) Value of method.
(f) Their work should be arranged so
they will have time for study and recrea-
tion, (by whom?). (g) Encourage men-
tal development, (how?). (h) Aid them
in harmless pastimes, (how?). (i) As the
sapling is bent so it will grow, so the in-
dustrious boy makes a good husband and
the industrious girl a thrifty wife, (give
example). (j) A mother’s duty is not
wholly fulfilled in working for her chil-
dren, but in teaching them to work for
themselves, (why not?). (k) Fit your
children for the work they must do in la-
ter life. (l) Teach them that while they
are assisting you, they are preparing
themselves for similar positions of respon-
sibility. (m) To train our children to
work for others will foster in them a
spirit of love and unselfishness particular-
ly for those dependent on us—true love is
self-sacrificing. (n) Evil effects of idle-
ness. (o) Bad habits formed in the idle
moments. (p) Degenerating acquaint-
ances made. (q) Vulgar tastes cultivated?
	“For idle hands some mischief still will
ever find to do.”
	Lesson II. Hospitality.
	(a) True spirit of hospitality. (b) From
a social standpoint. (c) From a religious
standpoint. (Titus 1:8). (d) True hospi-
tality does not look for a return. (e) To
whom should be extended our hospitality?
(f) Social indebtedness. (g) Christian
indebtedness. (Rom. 12:13; I Peter 4:9).
(h) Better err on the wrong side than
to turn away hungry a fellow creature.
(Heb. 13:2). (i) Why should we en-
courage our children to be hospitable?
(j) Reward of hospitality. (Matt. 25:
31-46).
			Beaver East Ward R. S.
	Lesson III. Influence of Prayer in the
Home.
	“Prayer is the key with which the door
of each day should be opened and closed.”
	(a) Prayer secures divine aid for parents
in their home management. (b) It de-
velops in the hearts of the parents and
children a trust and confidence in God’s
power and promises, that bring peace and
contentment in the home. (c) Prayer
gives courage and strength to perform
faithfully the duties of life. (d) It is by
prayer that we express gratitude to God
for blessings, and supplicate from a con-
tinuation of mercies. (e) The prayer of
righteous parents has and can turn way-
ward children from the error of their
ways. (Book of Mormon, Mosiah 27:14).
(f) Prayer is a safeguard that protects
from sin and gives strength to resist evil
influences. (Book of Mormon, Alma 36).
(g) Joseph Smith unlocked the heavens
by prayer—we can have the same key—
God is no respector of persons—the great
and the small can approach Him through
the prayer of humility and faith. (h) Give
instances where prayer has been answered

[Column 2]
and its beneficial effects in the home.
(Gen. 17:20; I Kings 18:36; Ex. 17:4, 32:
11).
	Lesson IV. Proper Home Ideals.
	“The love of the beautiful is a handmaid
of civilization.”
	“For as a man thinketh in his heart, so
is he.” (Prov. 23:7).
	“Be ye perfect, even as your Father in
heaven is perfect.” (Matt. 5:48; II Sam.
22;31).
	(a) An aspiration to excel in every thing
that is good or praiseworthy should be
instilled and encouraged and developed
in our children. (Why? Articles of Faith
13). (b) The love of order and clean-
liness should be so highly developed that
every member of the family would be un-
comfortable when conditions were other-
wise, (Why?). (b) The spiritual and moral
atmosphere is kept pure and healthy and
invigorating, (Why?). (d) Willing cheerful
obedience to wise, just impartial home
rules and regulations. (e) Polite courteous
consideration for each other and their
rights. (Show how it refines and ennobles).
(f) A deep love for honesty, purity, truth,
justice and mercy. (What kind of char-
acter does it develop?). (g) Unquestion-
ed loyalty to God, country and home.
(What are its fruits?). (h) An affection-
ate reverence for the aged; and sacred
places and things. (How does it effect the
public?).
			Beaver West Ward R. S.
	LESSON V. Father’s Mother’s, Chil-
dren’s Rights in the Home.
	(a) Father’s privilege to provide a home
and preside over it. (b) To the love and
respect and co-operation of the mother.
(c) To the love and obedience of the chil-
dren. Why? (d) To counsel and instruct
and direct the household. (e) The moth-
er’s right to preside over the home in the
absence of the father. Why? (f) En-
titled to the support, to the confidence, to
the love and courtesies of the father.
Why is she? (g) To the affection, obedi-
ence and help of the children. (h) Chil-
dren have a right to be well born. What
is well born? (i) To be cared for tenderly
and intelligently in infancy. (j) To a
cleanly, comfortable, peaceful home. (k)
To spiritual, moral and physical training.
(l) To the best educational opportunities
that the parents are able to give. (m)
To be disciplined, by precept and ex-
ample, in honesty, purity, truthfulness,
industry, economy, perseverance, kind-
ness, gentleness, and patience. (n) To
be treated kindly, courteously and affec-
tionately by their father and mother. (o)
To sympathy, compassion, and forgive-
ness when overtaken in sin and transgres-
sion. (p) To be reproved, corrected and
controlled. (q) To be encouraged, trust-
ed and made self-reliant. (Give the good
results that follow granting children’s
rights and the evil effects where their
rights have been disregarded).
	LESSON VI. Patience and Persever-
ance.
	“Our greatest glory is not in never fall-
ing, but in rising every time we fall.”
		If a task is once begun
		Never leave it till its done.
		Say I can, and then stick to it,
		That’s the only way to do it.
	“He who has no patience is poor in-
deed.”

[Column 3]
	Patience is one of the chief virtues.
Ref. Luke 21:19. (a) Give the best
method of teaching it to children.
(b) Can parents without self-control teach
patience effectively? (c) Give the value
of patience and perseverance in the home.
(d) How do they assist parents in manag-
ing wayward children? (e) Show how
children trained in perseverance and ap-
plication go far ahead of those not so
trained. (f) Patience and perseverance
the most valuable elements in foundation
of character. (Explain how). (g) To
what extent do they overcome the oppo-
sition and difficulties of life? (h) Name
some of the powers acquired, and bless-
ings obtained, by repeated effort. Matt.
24:13; I Cor. 15-58.
					Milford R. S.
	LESSON VII. Social Purity.
	“To be socially pure, one must store
the mind with pure, ennobling thoughts.”
	“Blessed are the pure in heart for they
shall see God.” Matt. 5:8. (a) Avoid
slander, vulgar language and impolite-
ness. (b) Overcome selfish tendencies.
(c) Cultivate truthfulness, integrity and
goodness, pure thoughts. Eph. 5:3, 4.
(d) Kind words and gentle actions. (e)
The foundation should be laid at home.
Ref. Young Woman’s Journal, Vol. VI,
page 512. Be first in the field.
	Lesson VIII. Harmful Effects of Evil
Speaking.
		“Nay, speak no ill, a kindly work
		Can never leave a sting behind.”
	“In this day of advanced thought, each person
seems to be the self-constituted judge of his asso-
ciates, passing opinion blindly and thoughtlessly
upon their actions, little knowing sometimes what
the result will be—never pausing to consider that
these hasty, imperfect judgments so universally
and forcibly expressed, may possibly mar a life,
or place a dark blot on an otherwise unsullied
name.”
	(a) Of the many beautiful precepts
taught by Jesus none is more important
or less regarded than “Judge not, that ye
be not judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) (b) “A
good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit.”
(Matt. 7-18.) (c) How does evil speak-
ing influence children? (d) How does it
harm the speaker? (Psalm 34:13; I Peter
3:10, 11.) (e) Explain how it may mar the
life or place a dark blot on the char-
acter of the one spoken of. (f) What in-
fluence has it on the public? (James 3:5,
6, 8; Prov. 25:23; 26:18, 20.)
		“If you’re the first a fault to see
		Be not the first to make it known.”
	(g) Why not?
					Minersville R. S.
	Lesson IX, Cheerfulness.
	“’Tis cheerfulness that lights the world’s dark
		ways,
	And drives away the shadows with its rays.”
	(a) Name some of the potent influences
for good of cheerfulness, that are con-
stantly made upon us, as we pass through
the daily school of life. (b) Is it the duty
of parents to cultivate and develop in
themselves and their children a cheerful,
sunshiny disposition? Why? (c) Can
parents give their children a better herit-
age than the faculty to appreciate bless-
ings and see the bright side of life? (Prov.
17:22.) (d) Tell why the true Latter-
day Saints’ hearts will be so full of hope 
and faith and trust in God that there will
be no room for sadness and gloom or de-
spondency. (Prov. 15:13, 15.) (e) How
does sunshine in the heart melt away the


[Column 1]
cares and trials and worries of life as rap
idly as the sun does snow? (f) Illustrate
how smiles and mild answers will disperse
dark clouds and turn away wrath, that
at times threaten to mar our home peace
and happiness, (g) How does cheerful-
ness invigorate, mentally and physically?
(h) Is it not the important duty of all,
Latter-day Saints in particular, to be
cheerful, and scatter generously smiles
and encouraging words? (II Cor. 9:7.)

Lesson X. Worry.
	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes us sober and sad;
	That makes us narrow and sordid,
		When we should be cheery and glad.

	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes the world grow old, 
	That numbers the years of its children,
		Ere half their story is told.”

	(a) Worry—what is it? (b) Its effect
upon the parents. (c) Upon the chil-
dren. (d) Upon our associates. (e)
Name some of the causes of worry. (f)
How does it affect us physically and men-
tally? (g) What are the fruits of fretting,
repining and useless complaining? (h)
Can worry deepen the lines of care on the
face, rob the form of its grace and elas-
ticity, and take the sparkle and lustre
from the eyes? (i) Show how it antici-
pates and magnifies evils that never come.
(j) Is it work or worry that drives away
sleep and causes us to toss and tumble on
our beds, unfitting ourselves for the duties
of today? (k) Is worrying a habit partic-
ularly with womenj If so, can it be over-
come: and how? (l) Ought care and sor-
row to be accepted as inevitable and the
necessary discipline of life? (m) Show
how patient resignation and being thank-
ful that things are no worse, and letting
our thoughts go out to others more un-
fortunate, restore peace and thankfulness
to the disturbed soul and drive away the
evil spirit of worry and discord.
				Adamsville R. S.

Lesson XI. Charity.
	(a) Definition. (Ref.: Book of Mor-
mon, Moroni 7:45-48.) (b) Importance.
(I Peter 4: 8; I Cor. 13: 1-3.) (c) Christ
our great exemplar in charity and com-
passion, expressed in healings, raising
the dead, restoring sight and hearing,
cleansing lepers, rebuking evil spirits, and
releasing sinners. (Ref.: John 11: 11:44;
Luke 7: 12-15; Matt. 8:28-32.) (d) Show
how we can manifest our charity toward
mankind. (e) Feeding the hungry and
clothing the naked is not the highest type
of charity—it is only a temporary relief;
while to provide ways and means for self-
help is a permanent blessing. (f) Show
how one drags down to pauperism, and
the other develops self-respect and man-
hood. (g) Explain the difference between
charity and benevolence.

Lesson XII. Home Economy.
	“Economy is the magic door
	That leads to wealth’s accumulated store,”

	(a) Show the benefits of children be-
ing trained while young in habits of econ-

[Column 2]
omy. (b) It will not depart from them
in after life. (c) It is a safeguard against
poverty, and an insurance of plenty.
Why? (d) Necessity of training them to
realize the value of money—the good that
might be accomplished with it—that they
will not have a desire to spend it in friv-
olous things that could be done without.
(e) Explain how method of performing
work will economize time. (f) Importance
of improving the precious moments and
not wasting the time God has given us.
					Greenville R. S.
	Alice Gunn White, Mary A. White,
Frances L, Jones, Clarissa E. Parkin-
son, Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held in the
2nd ward chapel American Fork, Friday,
April 19, 1907. President Rebecca Stand-
ring presiding. Opening exercises.
	President Standring was pleased to see
and welcome the sisters. Noticed that
sisters were here from our fartherest wards
while some nearer home had excused
themselves. We should be earnest in
our work. We have four conferences
each year and twelve conjoint meetings
and have much to encourage us onward.
We have entered our 68th year since our
first organization.
	The sisters can call their children to-
gether in family prayer and thus set an
example to the head of the house, and
plant the principle of prayer in the hearts
of the children for the children cannot
be saved through the good' works of the
parents.
	Four of the wards were reported by
their respective presidents. All seem to
be in good running order, officers united,
teachers doing their duty and all working
in harmony. Much has been done during
the past year in building meeting houses
in which work the sisters have done a
good share besides taking care of the poor,
gathering grain and numerous other duties
devolving upon them.
	President Jas. H. Clarke in his excel-
lent remarks said, manv of the sisters
leave it too late to get the lessons they
could have had in early life. President
Joseph F. Smith would like to see women
of vigor and strength take hold of Relief
Society work. There are many who never
get the spirit and benefit of the instruc-
tions given here. If the teachers could
carry the spirit of these meetings to those
who cannot attend, it would be a great
help.
	Bishop Storrs realized that the Relief
Society was one of the greatest organiza-
tions in the Church, and what they do is
always a success spoke of the word of
wlsdom, and many other good things.
	Meeting closed by singing, etc.
	Afternoon Session at 2 o’clock. Presi-
dent Standring presiding. Singing. Prayer
by President Abel J. Evans. A select

[Column 2]
piece was rendered by the sisters of the
American Fork 1st ward, entitled “Count
your blessings.”
	President Standring made a few excel-
cellent opening remarks.
	Four presidents gave good reports of
their various wards. Good conditions ex-
isted and a spirit of inquiry seemed to be
in the hearts of the people, and the meet-
ings are better attended.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley, this so-
city was given to us that we might help
each other. We fully appreciate this
blessing. We are not perhaps always do-
ing the best we can, but our desires are
to do right.
	Song, “Sometime, somewhere” by Miss
Edith Hindley.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said,
the instructions given were from the
proper spirit. Found we were below the
average with other stakes. We have
fewer missionaries in the field. Our mis-
sionaries should be strong in body and in
good health. Where the young man has
proved a failure in the mission field he
was a failure before he went.
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board
spoke of the unity there is among the sis-
ters. “Let us commence in our homes
and see what can be done with the chil-
dren. When we are doing good to others
we are helping ourselves.
	Brother Ammon Mercer of Canada felt
to appreciate the privilege of meeting old
time friends, rejoiced in attending confer-
ence and seeing the spirit of unity and ad-
vancement, knew the Lord was favoring
Zion and especially the children of the
Saints.
	Solo, “Star of the East” by Sister Laura
McCarty.
	Sister Emily Bullock bore her testi-
mony, felt thankful for the Relief Society
for in it are the best women. Desired to
set a good example and hoped we would
all be faithful to the end.
	Bishop Fjeld of Lehi, “the work is
growing and it cannot be put down. Now
the Church is out of debt it will make
rapid strides.”
	Ellen D. Clarke of the Stake Board felt
we had had a time of rejoicing. Spoke
of tithing and that there was a blessing
attending the observance of this principle.
	Rosalie Driggs of the Stake Board felt
proud of the Alpine Stake and knew the
work was true, had learned much from
being a member of the Relief Society.
	President Standring, “the Lord had 
blest us and repaid us for coming together
for we have had an overflow of the spirit
of the Lord. Singing, “Lord dismiss us.”
	Benediction, Sister Rachel Hunter.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	The several stakes of Zion are hereby
notified that the Relief Society Nurse
Class for this year will begin in Septem-
ber with the first session of the L. D. S.
University.
	The important work is under the aus-
pices of the general Board of the Relief
Society, who desire the earnest co-opera-
tion of all ward and stake presidents.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
						Instructor.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

