Vol. 36.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1908.						No. 9.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions..................Emmeline B. Wells	65
A Book of Verse............................The Editor	67
The Alps..................................Lydia D. Alder	70
History of the U. W. Press Club.....................
	........................................Lydia D. Alder	71
Mothers’ Work:—Millard Stake.....................	70
Relief Society Stake Reports: Millard—Alpine	72
In Memoriam..................................................	67
In Memoriam..................................................	69
Caroline E. Partridge Lyman..........................	69
Resolutions of Respect...................................	70
In Memoriam..................................................	70
An Artistic Booklet.........................................	68
Editorial:—A Delightful Reception................	68
	McDonald Golden Wedding...................
	Honors.....................................................
Poetry:––An Eastern Anthem.........................
	...............................MARY KELLY PYE	65


AN EASTER ANTHEM
The birds are singing in the boughs,
	Their glad notes greet our ears,
While on the trees and meadowlands,
	The sign of spring appears.
From winter’s bondage freed at last,
	In joyous minstrelsy
They sing to praise their Risen Lord,
	An Anthem of the free.
“The Lord is Risen,” sing the birds,
	And buried in the gloom
The little seedlets burst their bonds
	To rise to life and bloom;
The insect with the birds unite,
	In joyous minstrelsy,
They sing to praise their Risen Lord,
	An Anthem of the free.
‘The Lord is Risen,” mortals all,
	Shall we refuse our praise?
Shall we alone of all the blest,
	Refuse our song to raise?
From sin’s dark bondage freed at last,
	In joyous minstrelsy,
We’ll sing to praise our Risen Lord,
	An Anthem of the free.
					MARY KELLY PYE


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	In contemplating the lives of the women
of the past among our people, one cannot
help feeling that they were women of destiny
called and chosen to help in laying the
foundation of the Latter-day work in this
last dispensation.
	One of the most heroic and remarkable
among these early pioneers in the Church
was Presendia Huntington Kimball. She
was possessed of wonderful vital power and
influence. She had the faculty of drawing
people around her, who looked up to her
for advice and instruction, and she never
failed in knowing what to say, and how to
satisfy them.
	Her knowledge of affairs outside of
woman’s domain was extensive and extra-
ordinary. She had the ability of a good
farmer, cultivated trees, vines, shrubbery,

[Column 2]
and all she planted grew and flourished and
ripened; she had been trained in the home
industries of carding, spinning, dyeing and
all that pertained to the home economy.
Sister Presendia was a good judge of stock
and domestic animals, cows sheep, or
horses, one might say by instinct, knew all
the good and bad points, could ride or drive
any horse that a man could manage, and
drove her own team across the plains into
the valley. Besides the admirable qualities
not usually found so strongly developed in
women, she had superior mental and spirit-
ual qualifications that corresponded with
the physical endowments. She was a wom-
an of power in all religious lines, gifted in
prayer and in blessing, not only with words
but with manifest inspirational power, and
was frequently selected on great occasions
on account of this uncommon gift, to pray
in large public gatherings and assemblies.
She had a very good, far-reaching voice,
which is quite exceptional among women
speakers, even those who have had training
along the lines of public speaking, culture
of the voice and so forth. Sister Kimball
was a natural platform speaker, and she
reasoned well on all subjects of every day
life, and questions of public interest and
welfare, law and order; she was thoroughly
versed in the scriptures, could converse
intelligently with ministers of all denomina-
tions, and was often prophetic in her utter-
ances.
	She was a woman who seemingly knew
how to meet every emergency, and to be able
to conquer every difficulty that came in her
way, totally without fear, brave in the truest
sense, and self-possessed amid scenes of
misfortune or calamities, more so than any
woman I have ever known in my wide ex-
perience of womankind. There is no doubt
of her having the revolutionary blood of her
ancestors in her veins.
	sister Kimball, like her younger sister,
Zina Huntington Young, possessed that
natural gift of healing that is so manifest in
those whom we speak of as “born nurses,”
The sick came to her to be administered to,
I might say daily; she not only had great
faith, but she inspired faith and confidence
in those to whom she ministered. Doubt-
less she would have made a skilled surgeon,
in fact she had acted in that capacity in set-
ting broken limbs when there were no doc-
tors at hand. Sister Presendia was tall,
large and well-proportioned, she carried
herself well, and would be notable among a
crowd; she looked to be exactly what she
really was, a woman of extraordinary capa-
bilities, could fill almost any position in life
that required moral power and force of
character. I think I may safely say with-
out fear of contradiction, that she blest
more of the humble and lowly sisters than
any other one sister in the Church.
	Sister Kimball’s life was not a bed of
roses; there were more thorns, thistles and
briers in the way; indeed she had passed, as
it were, through a fiery furnace. There were
many deaths, too, in her large family, and
one particularly sad. Early after coming to
the valley, a very beautiful little girl was
born to her, and when the child was of the

[Column 3]
most interesting age, she fell in City Creek,
and though help was at hand the child was
dead.
	Both parents mourned greatly over the un-
timely death of the little girl, who had been
namedCelestia,and indeed she seemed purely
celestial. Such ordeals are indeed sorrow-
ful.
	One of the episodes in Sister Presendia’s
life to which she often referred with tender
pride and satisfaction was her two visits to
Liberty jail in Missouri, when Joseph the
Prophet and his brother Hyrum, the Patri-
arch, were incarcerated there at the time of
the mobbing of the Saints in Missouri.
	Sister Presendia’s first visit was in com-
pany with Father Huntington, Heber C.
Kimball and Alanson Ripley. A second
visit was made with Frederic G. Williams,
at one time Counselor to President Joseph
Smith. This visit was a comfort to Sister
Presendia as long as she lived; she also had
a personal letter from the Prophet Joseph,
written while he was in prison, which she
considered her choicest treasure as long as
she lived.
	Sister Presendia made a profound impres-
sion upon her friends and associates, and
especially upon strangers, from her genial
manner and grand appearance, she was like
one would expect the revolutionary mothers
were, as valiant as those who fought for
liberty, but who bore their brunt of the bat-
tle at home, without receiving the honor.
	Presendia Lathrop Huntington Kimball
was born at Watertown, New York, Septem-
ber 7, 1810. Died at Salt Lake City, Utah,
February 1, 1892.
	In writing of these notable women of the
past, I am doing so from my own point of
view and personal observation, and as
things appealed to me, and the memories I
cherish of them, that I am anxious to hand
down to the young women of today and of
the future. Each one of whom I write has
been my personal friend, and of most of
them I have published biographies while
living, and I feel that I know their sterliag
worth to the community in which they lived
and labored-
	Among those women of the past whom I
dearly loved, I count one among the dear-
est, Elizabeth Howard, we called her our
representative Irish woman, and she was
fond of tho title; for she dearly loved her
country.
	In her person she was a magnificent speci
men of womanhood. She had been carefully
educated, and her opportunities for culture
had been excellent. Her father was a man
of broad and advanced views, and she had
learned much of public matters concerning
Ireland by listening to the conversation of
Irish gentlemen who visited her father’s
house. This had been helpful in broaden-
ing her own mind and her views of life and
its affairs. Moreover, she was so amiable
and tactful in presenting her side of the
question, that she made friends of those who
held entirely adverse opinions.
	The younger people were very fond of her
society, she was vivacious, witty, winning
and attractive. Sister Howard was always


[Column 1]
heartily welcomed in any company, and
infused an element of cheerfulness by her
buoyant and whole-souled nature. She was
indeed a host in herself, and entertaining in
any circle wherever she went, genial and
brilliant in conversation, animated and
beaming with good spirits in her counten-
ance, so that it did one good even to look
into her face; her friends can never forget her
cordial warm-heartedness in all places and
at all times. Sister Howard was a gifted
speaker, had a full, round-toned voice, and
was never at a loss for words to express her
sentiments.
	Elizabeth Howard was one of the few
women in the early days who dressed well,
who had rich clothing and handsome jew-
elry, yet she carried herself in such a becom-
ing manner, that one never felt embarrassed
because she was better dressed she was gen-
erous in giving to her friends and to the
needy; it seemed to be a part of her nature;
her house parties and garden parties were a
source of delight and pleasure, she knew
perfectly well how to entertain either small
or large crowds. In those days when so few
people could entertain sumptuously, the
Howard home on Cottonwood, was a resort
for the young folks, who wanted to have a
good time. Luckily for the Howards there
were no street cars, and the distance from
the city was too far to walk, but those who
could drive out enjoyed the open-hearted
hospitality of the Howards, and those of us
who loved rare china, cut glass and silver-
ware and fine Irish table linen, of which
there was a scarcity in those days, were sure
to be favored with a sight of these luxuries
on occasions when Sister Howard enter-
tained her special friends. Sister Howard
was what might well be termed, once your
friend, always your friend, a good com-
rade, she was worth cultivating; was strong
in her attachments, affectionate and sym-
pathetic. Her faith in the Gospel was firm
and steadfast, and she loved to labor for the
cause of truth, and the advancement and
onward progress of women’s work in the
Church.
	Sister Howard was one of the formost
champions of equal suffrage and participa-
tion of women in the affairs of education
and government. She was a fine mission-
ary, never cared for the hard ships of journey-
ings, when jolting over rough roads in lum-
ber wagons, she was a most delightful com-
panion she had always been, and was dur-
ing her life a great reader, and her mind was
stored with useful knowledge, history,
peotry and fiction, and her Irish wit was
helpful in keeping up one’s spirits when
everything went wrong. We have been to-
gether in some dangerous places, but her
courage was always equal to the hour and
the difficulty, and she was so full of vigor
and elasticity of spirits that one felt more
confident of the outcome being favorable
after all, because of her assured optimism.
	A lover of nature and outdoor freedom,
she rejoiced in beautiful scenery, far away
from the “madding crowd.” It was per-
haps this element in her that made her such
a good traveler even under difficulties she
was a woman who enjoyed life in its com-
plete fulness; yet over and above all she ap-
preciated the Gospel and believed and ac-
cepted all the principles revealed in this
day and dispensation through the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Notwithstanding her light-
heartedness and buoyancy of spirit which
carried her easier over every rough place in
life, yet deep down in her soul was the un-
fying love of the truth, for which she left

[Column 2]
her native land and kindred, and for which
she was ready to make any sacrifice re-
quired. Such women are a joy along the
pathway of other people’s lives; they help
to lighten the load of care that is a part of
all our lives here in this mortal existence.
We cannot cherish the memory of such grand
and noble women too sacredly. Women
who have accomplished something worthy
of record on the pages of history. Sister
Howard died away from home while filling
an appointment for the Relief Society.
	Elizabeth Anderson Howard was born at
Carlow, Carlow, Co., Ireland, July 12, 1823.
Died in Grantsville, Tooele Co., Utah,
March 12, 1893.
	Although it may appear to many even of
our own people that the women of the Lat-
ter-doy Saints are much alike, and that the
record of one serves as a sample of many,
yet to one who knows them intimately, one
finds them very distinctive; and each one a
study in herself.
	Even Puritan women are dissimilar, and
each has her peculiar traits and personality.
Long ago when the office of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT was on the corner of State and
South Temple streets where the Alta Club
is today, I wrote a biographical sketch of
Mrs. Mary Ann Angell Young under her
own direction, and she approved it, and
now I wish to tell in a few paragraphs my
personal impressions of the life and charac-
ter of this illustrious woman; wife of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, founder of Utah and
its first Governor.
	Mrs. Young was the Puritan type in the
extreme religious sense; she was of a de-
cidedly spiritual nature; and when younger
must have been the maiden type too per-
sonified; had she remained in her home in
Providence, Rhode Island, in the Baptist
church of which she was a member, she
would probably never have married; in fact
she had made up her mind, never to marry,
unless she could find “A man of God.”
	I met Mrs. Young first in Nauvoo and
was greatly impressed by what I heard of
her from those who had known her in Kirt.
land; and when in closer association at the
time of the exodus and journeying west-
ward, and in nearer proximity during the
period of our stay in Winter Quarters; and
even after until the time of her death, I feel
no hesitancy in calling her one of the fam-
ous women of the Church; one who came to
great honor and who bore all trials, priva-
tions, honors, and affluence, like a Saint of
God in meekness and humility. Her ben-
evolence was far reaching and unquestion-
able, always apparent when the slightest
call was made upon her, for assistance; like
her illustrious husband who said he would
“rather help nine who were unworthy than to
let one who was worthy suffer.” Mrs.
Young in her early life had been a student-
of the Bible, a Sunday School teacher in the
Baptist church in Providence; and she had
been particularly interested in studying an-
cient prophecies; therefore she compre-
hended the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints when she heard the Elders
preaching it in its fulness. She also jour-
neyed to Kirtland alone as Phebe Carter
Woodruff did.
	Thinking of Mrs Young as I knew her in
the various trying ordeals and circumstan-
ces through which she passed, I can truly
say she was of the exceptional spiritual
type, and a most fitting example of sim-
plicity of faith, that believes without ques-
tioning, and would make any sacrifice of her

[Column 3]
own feelings, and desires in obedience to the
commandments of God.
	In adversity, in poverty, with sickness to
contend with, her faith never failed, she al-
ways looked upward from whence help
would come.
	In some instances her faith was child-like
so sure was she of results; but it conquered
and overcome such obstacles as few women
have had to meet. A striking illustration
of this and of her self-possession or presence
of mind was manifested when she miracul-
ously saved her husband’s life, she was alone
with him in an attack of apoplexy and to
all appearance he was dead; he himself de-
clared afterwards that he was dead, there
was no sign of life whatever.
	After the toils and hardships and mob-
bings and drivings of Kirtland, Far West
and Nauvoo and the experiences of the exo-
dus and of Winter Quarters, when in the
valley of Salt Lake the Saints became more
prosperous and Brigham Young was made
Governor of the Territory, and it fell to the
lot of Mrs. Mary Ann Young to entertain the
guests of the Chief Executive of Utah or
Deseret—she was quite equal to the situ-
ation, and though the home was primitive,
(for the term of office began before the Bee
Hive was built) the white house on the hill
was the one mansion then, yet Mrs. Young
seemed as much at ease in doing the honors
of the Governor’s home as when receiving
the brethren and sisters in her log cabin in
Winter Quarters; and let it be remembered
Brigham Young entertained all the great
people of wealth, rank, and station, not
only those who came hither, but many of
those who passed through this way to Cali-
fornia and the great Northwest. Mrs. Young
had the happy faculty of adaptability, and
she was so well versed in Scripture lore, and
in the Book of Mormon, and had passed
through such varied experiences, that she
was never at a loss for subjects of conversa-
tion in any company. Sister Young was
always dignified, as much so in the kitchen
as in the parlor; she was not a woman who
sought or cared for publicity; she loved re-
tirement in her own home. Mrs. Young
did not even care for the Gardo after she
moved into it, and preferred the White
House on the hill, yet she had filled with
credit the highest social place of distinction
as the wife of the President of the Church
and the wife of the Governor of the Terri-
tory. There was no assumption of power in
her manner, no arrogance, she simply ac-
cepted the honors with the modesty of the
old fashioned Puritan mother. All her na-
ture and inherited ideas revolted at the
thought of show, or of doing things for the
sake of appearances; she had the New Eng-
land ideas of propriety, and reposefulness of
manner, a touch of Quakerism, that shrank
from notoriety.
	The writer had many long talks with Mrs.
Young while preparing the biography al-
luded to, and realized and appreciated more
fully the striking worth of one who had made
tremendous sacrifices for principle, and had
such unbounded integrity, such implicit
faith and confidence in the mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors in
office. I really feel that it is a good part of
higher education to get to the heart and
inner life of such noble and good women,
who have stood side by side, and shoulder
to shoulder with the greatest men in the
Church, and in the dispensation that we re-
alize and know is to be the greatest of all
dispensations upon this earth. All honor
to such women as Mary Ann Angell Young.


We might well quote these famous words
of the poet Milton in this connection:
		“What thou biddest
Unargued I obey; so God ordains;
God is thy law; thou mine; to know no more
Is woman’s happiest knowledge and her praise.”
	Mary Ann Angell Young, born in Seneca,
New York, June 8, 1803, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, June 27, 1882.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A BOOK OF VERSE.
	Alfred Lambourne, poet and artist has
another new book surpassing in style and
value, in all respects, perhaps, any of the
smaller volumes of his, previously given to
the public; the book must be classed as
artistically beautiful, and it is in keeping,
so far as its general appearance is concerned
with his story of “Plet” and “Poems of
Holly and Easter Lilies.” The new book
has the simple title “A Book of Verse,” but
the contents are in every respect superb.
	The frontispiece is an exquisite portrait
from life of the author, and is in every de-
tail perfect, and in every touch and expres-
sion. It is the work of M. M. Young, art-
ist and sculptor, a native son of Utah, and
a genius in his line of art. The title page
and inscription are by Lee Greene Richards,
whose name and fame are becoming well-
known in Utah and abroad; they are very
unique, and give the impression of some-
thing classical. Illustrative designs here
and there in the book are by the two artists
who are doing much in helping to make
Utah famous, J. L. Harwood and Lee
Greene Richards. These designs are dainty
in fineness and add much to the artistic
taste of the book itself, and to the delight
of the readers of the poetic effusions so ex-
quisitely wrought into verse pictures.
	The Contents given by the author are:
I “Three Season’s Flowers,” [dedicated to
Lillian]. II “Cicidas In Home Sweet Home”
[To Minnie.]
	We regret that we are not competent to
give the author’s own ideas of the illustra-
tions, but as we gaze upon them we find
they speak to us in a language we are incap-
able of putting into words, it is the lan-
guage of the soul.
	The first poem in “Three Season’s Flow-
ers” is the lilac, and one must read it to
get an idea of its soulful significance, it
speaks volumes to a lover of this garden
shrub, when in flower. The writer can only
quote a verse or two of what appeals most
tenderly to her:
“With moisture strange the lilacs fill mine eyes,
	A gladsome dew'that glistens into tears;
Entranced I stand, lost in a sweet surprise,
	While joys divine come back from out the
		years.”
	Another verse we unust quote which
struck the writer as quite an original idea
and very fanciful.
“O, what the secret that these blossoms hold—
	Which they unto the primal purpose owe?
O, what the occult life these leaves unfold.
	From golden age that antedated woe?”
	It appears that the author has selected
three flowers to express beautiful and pure
thoughts, and every line contains thought-
food for the student of literature.
	The second season, “The Rose,” midsum-
mer blossom, the favorite flower of many peo-
ple and indeed of nations, one might say; its
richness, its splendor, its ravishing beauty,

[Column 2]
its peerlessness, in short it might be called
a symbol of triumph and of victory; and is
styled classically “queen of flowers.” To
choose which verse t’were best to quote, or
which conveys most exquisiteness of senti-
ment, one cannot tell as one reads the poem
over and over, but we will venture to give
one or two verses in this random writing.
“In this full time, this hey-day of the year,
	My soul en rapport with the fairness wrought
Here with the queenly rose doth own the sphere—
	All earth possess, in luxury of thought.”
	The writer closes this delicious poem with
the verse which is probably the climax of the
poet’s idea.
“With honeyed wealth of life the moments teem,
	And heart to heart melts in delicious swoon.
Can aught of fear or strife disturb love’s dream,
	Made perfect by the roses, gift of June?”
	Mr. Lambourne speaks gracefully of the
Chrysanthemums’ lives beginning when the
others die:
“Strange lives that come to make a round com-
		plete;
	Blossom and flower surviving numberless;
’Tis but a world all pallid now they greet,
	Companionship to keep with weariness.”
In harmony they come with this drear morn,
	When wrapt in chilly mist all nature grieves,
Delivers to the year her latest born,
	Nipt by the hoar frost, hid by the drifting
		leaves.”
	Mr. Lambourne requested the writer to
read the poem “Cicidas in Home Sweet
Home,” when alone at night; we informed
him we had already read the poem when
alone very late at night, when the full moon
was bright, since then it has been read more
than once, and we think that the author has
drunk deep draughts at the Pierian spring.
“What dearer moment can the future give,
	Than this wherein a thousand transports
		crowd?
The loves of dead ancestors once more live.
	Within my heart, they cry to me aloud.”
“The Fields Lethean are this moment mine,
	As though my soul emerged from out the wave,
By that bright shore, where starry clusters shine,
	The Isles of Peace, that Lethe’s waters lave.”
“A sweet forgetfulness from self I find.
	Lost ’mid the cadences of verse and song;
The overflow from one glad heart combined.
	With gleeful clamor of night’s winged throng.”
	Mr. Lambourne may feel justly proud of
the book the production of one of Utah’s
geniuses, and believe that the coming gener-
ation of the sons and daughters of the vales
of the West, born amid the grandest scenery
on the American continent, with a goodly
legacy of knowledge bequeathed to them
through the efforts of the founders of this
commonwealth in establishing educational
institutions, may be able to fully appreciate
the classical works of such poets as O. F.
Whitney, Alfred Lambourne, and Henry W.
Naisbitt, after they are gone, as they do
not seem to while they live. One wonders
why dead poets are more widely honored
and recognized years after they have passed
away, than while they sojourned among
their contemporaries.
					THE EDITOR.


Princess Letitia, who is also Duchess of
Aosto, and Honorary President of the Pied-
montese branch of the Italian National
Council of Women, presided at the recent
Congress of Women in Rome.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It is with feelings of profound sorrow and
grief, that we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, express our heartfelt sympathy, and
extend words of condolence to those whom
we love, honor and revere. Those who in
the decree of an All-wise Father, have been
called upon to part for a brief season, with
one most truly loved.
	Sister Louie Shurtliff Smith was one in
whom shone all the virtues known to human- 
ity. Queenlike, regal in her mien, yet with-
al so gentle, just and kind, the, innate beau-
ty showed the exquisite touches of the Mas-
ter’s hand.
	She was as the sunbeam breaking through
the cloud. Her pure, chaste life was ever
an inspiration.
	As a daughter she was all that the name
implies, all that a daughter could be. As
a sister, loving, beloved and revered. A
wife, the helpmeet, companion, and coun-
selor of her husband. A mother, tender,
true, wise, ideal.
	To parents, brothers, husband and little
ones, we feel to say: Whereas, our Father
in His wisdom and love has called her
home to labor in a more exalted sphere,
may you be able to bow in humble submis-
sion to His divfne will. And we earnestly
pray that on each aching heart may be
poured a healing balm, even the comforting
influence of the Holy Spirit, that you may,
even now see the silver lining to the cloud
which overshadows you, and be able to say:
“The Lord gave and the Lord taketh away;
blessed be the name of the Lord.”

O, loved ones, with thy braised and bleeding
		hearts,
	Couldst thou have seen the messenger that
		came
In shining robes, direct from Father’s throne,
	Hadst heard the thrilling voice call Louie’s
		name,
Thou wouldst have said, if thou hadst under-
		stood,
“It is the Lord; do Thou as seemest good.”

But veiled by dense mortality, thine eyes
	Beheld not, through the bitter, blinding tears: 
The same dense clay permitted not the sound
	Of angel voice to penetrate thine ears,
Not tears nor sob prevented, but laws abound
That man must walk by faith, not sight nor
		sound.

And so the angel came unseen, unheard
	By all save thy dear one, whom he didst guide
Across the shadowy river, to the throne
	Where harp and crown await on yonder side,
She saw, heard, and recalled her former home.
And smiling, whispered faintly, “Lord, I come.”

We mourn, we weep with thee in thy deep loss,
	We know the grieving heart yearns for its own;
Know that the aching void can ne’er be filled
	Save by our Heavenly Father, He alone
Can soothe thy grief, speak peaee unto thy soul;
Can heal thy wonnds, and make thee truly whole.

And so we pray that strength be given thee,
	That heavenly dews may on thy soul descend;
That through the clouds, blue sky may yet be
		seen;
	Instead of song, may psalm thy lips attend. 
When rightly tempered both by heat and wave,
Thou’lt meet again thine own beyond the grave.
					NELLIE BECROFT.


In Los Angeles, the Jewish Women’s
Foreign Relief Association, of which Mrs.
Bertha Hirsch Baruch is president, has
opened an attractive new settlement house
at 738 Turner St. It is named for Moses
Mendelssohn, the famous musician’s grand-
father, who brought the light of modern cul-
ture to the Ghetto Jews in the 18th century.
The house was opened with appropriate
ceremonies, and addresses from prominent
men, Christians and Jews.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	APRIL, 1908.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society, or any who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


[Column 1]
	A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.
	Our sisters generally throughout the entire
Church in all parts of the world are aware
now through reading the EXPONENT and
other publications, that the birthday of our
General President Bathsheba W. Smith oc-
curs on May 3, and that the Relief Society
or the family of this illustrious woman, one
or both, aim to celebrate it and make it an
occasion of rejoicing. This year the real
anniversary came on the Sabbath day and
it was the Fast Day; therefore no demon-
stration could be made on that day. Sister
Smith however chose Saturday, May 2, 1908,
and herself decided to given an open recep-
tion at her own home to her friends, and
to her co-workers in the Relief Society and in
the Temple.
	This idea was carried out and the affair
was in every way most enjoyable. The ar-
rangements were most tasteful and artis-
tic in color and design, the parlor was in
pink and white, pink and white roses, (the
May blossom colors) here and there in pro-
fusion; old fashioned portraits adorned the
walls of Father John Smith the Patri-
arch and his wife, and an excellent picture of
President George A. Smith, husband of the
hostess, whose death occurred many years
ago hung near a sofa, where the hostess was
receiving; the dining room was in green and
the softest lace curtains at the windows
helped to complete a pretty picture of ar-
tistic decorating that blended so harmoni-
ously with the entire furnishings of the
home, that a quiet serenity pervaded the at-
mosphere of the house. The central figure
of course was the hostess herself, arrayed in
her elegant shining white dress of home-

[Column 2]
made silk, with exquisitely fine, soft real
lace, and blonde lace scarf thrown carefully
over her head but not hiding the silvery white
hair that is the crowning glory of age, of
which the poets have sung in such admira-
ble strains:
“Like a crown of silver the snow-white hair
	So daintily dressed,
O’ershades a face once young and fair.”
	These words are most appropriate to many
of our dear sisters who have grown old in
the service of the Master. Saintly in every
feature as though purified from all dross.
	Sister Smith greeted all her guests cordi-
ally and said a few pleasant words to each
one as she was so heartily congratulated on
her long and useful life; and she was the re-
cipient of a number of handsome and valu-
able gifts from her devoted friends and co-
laborers. Besides the hostess in close
proximity was her only daughter, Mrs. Bath-
sheba Smith Merrill, and Sister Susan W.
Smith, also the General Secretary, Mrs. E.
B. Wells. Her grand-daughters, Mrs. David
Allen, Mrs. Stephen Richards, Mrs. Ben
Lloyd, Mrs. George H. Horne and Mrs.
Joseph Fisher, and the oldest great-grand-
daughters cared for the guests, ushering them
in and serving the dainty refreshments with
kind words and gracious acknowledgment
of the honor all who came felt to accord to
this highly esteemed and reverent grand-
mother on this notable anniversary, the
eighty sixth mile-stone on the road of life.
The plate on which cake was served was one
used at her wedding in the long ago. The
old fashioned counterpane upon her bed in
an adjoining room was designed and made
by Sister Smith in her early married life.
	One of the features of the day was the
gift of a handsome book of songs and illus-
trations from the General Board of the Re-
lief Society, the presentation made in a few
choice words of love and affection by Coun-
selor Annie Taylor Hyde.
	Sister Susa Young Gates, President of the
Utah Daughters of the Pioneers, with a few
loving words and a bit of dainty verse brought
to the honored hostess an exquisite white
lace scarf. It was very prettily pre-
sented and graciously acknowledged.
	There were original birthday poems from
Sisters Emmeline B. Wells and Ruth M.
Fox, read to the guests present at the time.
Sister Fox’s poem was sort of historical and
out of the ordinary style of birthday verses.
	The girls gave to the guests slips of paper
with the pictures of Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, Emily D. P. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith taken forty years ago
as a souvenir of the day.
	No record was kept of the number who
paid their respects, but they came and went
incessantly during the hours from two to six
p. m. and some even after.
	A beautiful spirit pervaded the home sug-
gestive of the calm, peaceful and serene life
of its mistress, and the small, white house
with its green shutters is a picture of con-
tentment from the outside, set as it is among
the green shrubbery, with its low, iron rail-
ing in front. Long may the occupant rest
there while she goes backwards and for-
wards to officiate as priestess in the holy
Temple not many steps away from her own
door.


[Column 1]
McDONALD GOLDEN WEDDING.
	Invitations were issued and a party given
in the Lion House Saturday, May 16, 1908,
to celebrate the fiiftieth anniversary of the

[Column 2]
marriage of Brother and Sister John Mc-
Donald. The Presidency of the Church
and Presiding Bishopric, also several Apos-
tles were specially interested in the affair
and had much to do with making it a sort
of testimonial of love and respect to the
bridegroom and bride of fifty years, and
also as an appreciation of favors and kind-
ness bestowed upon President Joseph F.
Smith and other brethren (some of whom
have passed away since) in a time when
they stood greatly in need of friends who
where true and reliable. The guests began
to assemble in the old fashioned parlor in
the Lion House about 4 p. m.
	The happy couple in whose honor the af-
fair was given were there to be congratu-
lated looking very buoyant and shaking
hands with all who offered congratulations
and good wishes. The bride wore an ele-
gant fawn-colored brocaded silk, made in
the latest style, in fact we could say as they
do of brides nowadays, “she was elegantly
gowned.” Brother McDonald wore the
usual dress suit, and there were many warm
and hearty expressions of good will and es-
teem. The call for the banquet hall came
and the guests were ushered up stairs where
in the spacious apartment five long tables
were arranged for the large party.
	At the head of the center table were the
guests of honor and President Joseph F.
Smith and the family of the honored couple.
	The tables were all filled, and at the head
of each some distinguished man was seated.
The menu was excellently prepared and
served by pretty young girls of the cooking
class of the L. D. S. College. The decor-
ations had been under the supervision of a
committee of three and were in excellent
taste, a card with the name designated the
place of each guest, also a flowers for favors.
President Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing upon the abundant feast, and a
spirit of unity and good fellowship pervaded 
the gathering.
	After the banquet tables were cleared
away and a sort of program of exercises in
charge of Bishop C. W. Nibley, opened with
singing a hymn and a brief address from
President Joseph F. Smith who in a very
happy manner expressed his good feeling
for Brother and Sister McDonald and pleas-
ure at having them his guests on such an
auspicious occasion. Bishop O. F. Whitney
recited a verse as a prelude to his remarks:

O ’tis not when riches and splendor surround us,
	That friendship and friends can be put to the
		test,
’Tis but when affliction’s cold presence hath
		bound us,
	We find which the hearts are that love us the
		best.
For friends will fawn at fortune’s dawn,
	While the breeze and the tide waft us steadily
		on;
But if sorrow o’ertake us each false one forsakes 
		us,
	And leaves us to sink or to struggle alone.

There was singing and recitations and an
excellent one rendered by the veteran actor,
Phil Margetts, Esq., impromptu speeches,
some original verses by Aunt Emm. Wells,
and very fine musical selections of negro
ballads rendered by some of the McDonalds,
and Brother McDonald gave a little inter-
esting history of their younger days. Then a
grand march in which most of the company
joined, and some old-fashioned dances in
which President Winder participated al-
though 86 years old, and fancy dances by
the McDonald grandchildren. Taken all in
all it was a delightful party and very differ-
ent to the wedding fifty years before, when


the two young people joined hands and were
married on horseback as they were journey-
ing southward at the time of the move when
Johnston’s army was coming. The EXPO-
NENT extends hearty congratulations and
ardent wishes for a long and happy life to-
gether, at any rate to celebrate their dia-
mond anniversary twenty-five years hence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
		IN MEMORIAM. 
MARTHA GIVENS HARRIS WELLS. 
“The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
	And lighting the sleeping brow;
But the light of the stars is cold and faint
	To the glory she dreameth now.”

“No sighs are heard in the shadowy place
	No voices of them that weep;
She has fought the fight and finished the race,
	God giveth her rest and sleep.”
		*	*	*	*	*
“The golden dawn of the day of God
	Shall smile on the sealed eyes;
The trumpet’s sound shall thunder around
	The dreamers shall wake and rise.”

“The night is over, the sleep is slept,
	They are called from the shadowy place,
The Pilgrims stand in the glorious land,
	And gaze on the Master’s face.”

	It is scarcely possible to write satisfac-
torily of those very near and dear, as there
seems no language in which to express what
one feels, concerning the departed loved ones. 
Yet a record must be made of the life, that
the memory may be preserved and facts for
reference, even though the task is difficult. 
Certainly Sister Martha Wells deserves most
honorable mention among the pioneer wo-
men of Zion, and of the West. Sister
Martha G. H. Wells who passed away at
the residence of her daughter, Sister Emily
Wells Grant, Tuesday, May 12, 1908, at 3
p. m., was a woman greatly beloved by her
family and friends, and widely known and
highly respected by the Latter-day Saints,
and many not of the same faith. Her im-
mediate family almost idolized her; she
was one to lean upon, always the tender, 
loving mother, and grandmother, solicitous 
for the welfare of each one and for all.  It
had fallen to her lot several times to care
for the motherless families of her sons, who
had been called to part with the mothers of
little children, and babes, and these little
ones received the most loving and watchful
care from her. 
	And indeed she was in herself most lova-
ble and trustworthy, a faithful wife and de-
voted and most affectionate mother. She
served with untiring patience and willing-
ness, all those who needed her care as
though they were her very own. 
	Martha G. Harris was born in Nashville,
Tenn., March 27, 1832. Her father was McGee
Harris, her mother Mary Givens, they were
married in Tennessee, but had been born in
Kentucky. They had quite a little family
when they decided to move to Illinois,
bought a farm and settled in Marion, Wil-
liams Co., Illinois, in the year 1840. It was
there the Gospel came to them by Elder
Levi M. Stewart, who was instrumental in 
converting and baptizing them. Little
Martha was baptized by Elder Levi M. Stew-
art when ten years old in 1842. She was
the third child of her parents, two sisters,
Sarah J. and Margaret, were older, and
Mary Ann, now Mrs. Casper Whittle, of
Richmond, Alexander, William, Eli, and
Emily C., Mrs. Alexander Bullock of Pleas-
ant Grove, were younger. 

[Column 2]
	When the exodus from Nauvoo came and
persecution raged in Illinois, Brother McGee
Harris and wife left their home and took up
their journey westward to the Missouri river;
leaving behind the two elder girls, who had
married and remained at their homes in
Illinois. When the Saints started west
from Winter Quarters to the valley Brother
and Sister Harris and family came in Presi-
dent Brigham Young’s company. In the
same company came ’Squire Wells, who
upon that famous pilgrimage made the ac-
quaintance of Miss Martha G. Harris, a very
modest, amiable and attractive young girl,
then just sweet sixteen. Brother Harris
was what we Eastern people called well-to-
do, and after reaching here finally settled
permanently in the Twelfth Ward in Salt
Lake, on the corner of what is now Second
South and Sixth East, where he resided up
to the time of his death. 
	Miss Harris was married to ’Squire Daniel
H. Wells September 20, 1849,—it was a 
very congenial and happy union, in all re-
spects they seemed admirably suited to each
other. Their children were Martha Deseret
Wells (Mrs. Charles Read), born April 18,
1853, Emily Harris (wife of Apostle Heber
J. Grant), born April 22, 1857, Heber Man-
ning Wells, first Governor of the State of
Utah, born August 11, 1859, Joseph Smith
Wells, manager Utah Light and Railway
company and First Counselor in the Presi-
dency of the Ensign Stake of Zion, born
May 25, 1862, Hermon Chapin Wells, born
September 8, 1868, Edna Margaret Wells,
born July 5, 1869, (Mrs. Thomas Sloan),
Briant Harris Wells, born December 5, 1871,
Captain 29th U. S. Infantry, stationed now
in Manila, Philippine Islands. 
	Mrs. Wells at the time of her decease left
twenty grandchildren (three had died), and
two great-grandchildren.
	Mrs. Wells’ life has been one of peace and
contentment, she was a model housekeeper,
and attractive home maker, pleasant and
companionable, and one to be trusted in all
the relations of life, true and constant in
friendship, and firm and unwavering in the
faith of the Gospel and in all the principles
therein revealed through the Prophet Joseph
Smith in this dispensation. 
	When the Relief Society was organized in
the 13th ward in Salt Lake City, she was
called to be a teacher, and made her first
visits in that capacity in company with Sis-
ter Bathsheba W. Smith; some years after
when Sister Martha Wells moved to the 12th
ward, she was chosen treasurer of the Relief
Society in that ward and held the office un-
til she moved from there to the 20th ward. 
In whatever position Sister Wells was called
to act, she always gave perfect satisfaction
to those associated with her. She was a
fine needle woman, and an adept in all
domestic arts, and an excellent manager
of household affairs. Her home was her
heaven, and she adorned it by her cheer-
ful presence and her smiling countenance, 
and motherly methods of ministering to
those who came within the scope of her
influence, and who had claim upon her hos-
pitality. 
	She lived a beautiful, serene and even
life, and she has gone to meet her loved ones
behind the veil, her noble husband, to whom
she gave her undying affection, her children
her beloved Dessie, her own baby Hermon
Manning, the son of Heber M. Wells, and
Byron, the son of Joseph Wells, to both of
whom she had been a second mother,
brothers and sisters and her own father and
mother, who died in full faith of the Gos-

[Column 3]
pel, both ripe in years and in good works,
and others whom she knew and loved here. 
	A rather remarkable feature in Mrs. Wells’
life is that she has left thirteen motherless
grandchildren, of four families; this seems
strange in one family and not a very large
family, for she had only six children that
grew to man and womanhood. 

	The funeral of Sister Martha Wells was
held at the home where she died, on Thurs-
day, May 14, 1908, at 2 p. m., Bishop T. A. 
Clawson of the 18th ward in charge of the
services. The singers rendered the beauti-
hymn, 
		Farewell all earthly honors,
and prayer was offered by Elder Richard W.
Young.
	Elder George D. Pyper sang as a solo,
	O, my Father thou that dwellest, etc. 
	Elder Orson F. Whitney and President
Joseph F. Smith made brief addresses full
of inspiration and of hope and consolation
to relatives and all who mourn their loved
ones. The singers gave a closing musical
exercise,
	“When the swallows homeward fly,”
and the benediction was pronounced by
Elder Seymour B. Young. 
	Mrs. Wells looked beautiful in the white
casket in her white robes. There were very
many lovely floral emblems; tokens of love
and affectionate regard. 
	“After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
	The pall bearers were six of the sons of
the late President Daniel H. Wells,
Rulon S., Gershom B., Louis R., Melvin D.,
Victor P. and Charles H. 
	The grave was lined with flowers and
covered with an exquisite blanket of the 
choicest flowers. 
	The grave was dedicated by Elder An-
thony Ivins. The exquisite hymn,
		Rest on the hillside, rest,
was solemnly rendered beside the grave.


CAROLINE E. PARTRIDGE LYMAN.
	To the memory of our beloved Sister
Caroline E. Lyman, President of the Oak
City Relief Society since its organization in
1875, until 1906, when she was honorably
released.
	She was born at Painesville, Ohio, Jan. 8,
1827, and died May 5, 1908.
	She was associated with Joseph Smith,
the Prophet, passed the early persecutions
of the Church. Her father, Presiding Bishop
Edward Partridge, was mobbed, tarred and
feathered, and otherwise mistreated for his
religion.
	She was the mother of five children, all
members of the Church. She was a pioneer
of both Utah and California.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, God has taken unto Himself our
beloved sister, friend and mother, therefore
be it
	Resolved, that in the death of Sister Ly-
man, Oak City Relief Society has lost one of
its stanchest supporters, the poor a gener-
ous and true friend, her children a tender,
devoted mother.


Resolved, that though we miss her from
our association and home, we can truly say
of her, “Blessed are the dead who die in
the Lord; she rests from her labors and her
works do follow her.
	Resolved that these resolutions be copied
in our record and a copy sent to the Wom-
an’s Exponent for publication.
			VERSES.
Mother, mother, true and tender,
	Though your form is bent with age,
Though your steps were slow and faltering.
	And your life a well-filled page—
Yet we miss you, dearest mother,
	None on earth your place can fill.
Your dear old room, your vacant chair
	Seemed hallowed with your presence still,
May we meet you in God’s kingdom.
	When our life on earth is done;
There to dwell in joy and gladness,
	With the Father and the Son.
			MARY M LYMAN.
			LYDA L. FINLENSON,
							Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OE RFSPEET.
	Sister Elizabeth Mary Pace Stewart, who
departed this life, April 18, 1908, 8 o’clock
p. m., at Price, Utah.
	Whereas our Father in heaven has in His
infinite mercy removed from among us our
worthy and dearly loved sister, Elizabeth
Mary Pace Stewart, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation
with her in the faithful discharge of her
duties in this society as a teacher makes it
fitting that we record our appreciation,
wherefore,
	Resolved, that the wisdom and ability
which she exercised in our midst by service
and example, will be held in grateful re-
membrance,
	Resolved, that the removal of such a life
from among our number leaves a vacancy
and a shadow that will be deeply realized
by all the members of this society, and a
serious loss to the community because of
the exemplary life she lived.
	Resolved that we deeply sympathize with
the husband and family, and pray our Heav-
enly Father to sustain and comfort them, in
the hour of trial, we express our hope that
even in so great a loss to us, all may be over-
ruled for good by Him who doeth all things
well.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions
be recorded in the record book of the Relief
Society, a copy published in the Woman’s
Exponent, and a copy handed to the be-
reaved family.
				MARIAH J. BRYNER
							Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Written on the death of Mrs. Leo Hafen, who
yielded up her young life on the altar of mother-
hood at her home in Provo, Utah, on March 21st,
1908.
	Sometimes the mystery of life and death are al-
most beyond our wisdom of understanding. The
poignant grief, the heart-ache, the helplessness,
the loneliness, the vacancy, all leave one so bereft
we cry out, “Why are we called upon to bear a
cross so heavily laden with sorrow?” Yet there
we pause. And the answer comes: “The Lord
giveth, and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the
name of the Lord.”
	How blessed when He gave to the dear father
and mother the sweet daughter He has now taken
to His home. How blessed when He gave the
sisterly companionship to the loving sister whose
grief is so great. How blessed when he gave the


lovely wife to the young husband. How sad
when he called from the borderland of mother-
hood, the precious mother and babe. True, the
dear companionship is severed, the light, the sun-
shine, the lovely presence, all that gave promise
of a future joy and happiness in the home, have
faded from our vision. But that is not the end of
all those blessings. Time will teach the lesson
her pure life has left—the lesson of love, Christian
faith, purity of purpose and devotion to her
Church, her home and to those in whose spiritual
welfare she labored. Mrs. Hafen was a tower of
strength and happiness among her friends and
neighbors, doing much good in Church and Sab-
bath School work. And while she rests from her
labor, her good work, her gentle influence, will
go on to the glory of her faithful guidance and
righteous teaching. She sleeps—she sleeps—
under thousands of beautiful flowers she sleeps
well.
Spring with your garlands and wealth of per-
		fume,
	Soft sunny glance of the warm summer day,
Bear her pure spirit from the dust of the tomb,
	Up to the stars of the beautiful way.
So we have given her early to rest,
	When the warm sunshine is lingering and
		sweet,
When the pale willow droops low o’er her breast,
	And the green mosses creep over her feet.
She sleeps not forever, we must be strong—
	Strong in our toiling and brave in our strife.
Letting her memory keep us from wrong,
	Guiding us on to the river of life.
						LOUISE COULSON.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


THE ALPS.
	The Alps, the majestic Alps! School
days come to mind, when we studied about
the Alps, the snowy peaks of Switzerland.
How far away those days seem, as we sit
here in Zurich’s boulevard, and see them
glistening in the setting sun! Then gradu-
ation day rises in memory. Thought long
and deep has been bestowed on that all-im-
portant essay, the crowning victory at the
end of High School life. We see the fair-
haired girl—our own close friend—advance
to the front of the platform and read
	“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
Her little white gloved hand holding the
dainty paper, perceptively trembles. She
is conscious that every eye is upon her; that
everyone there is going with her on that
journey over the Alps.
	So young, so fair, how could she sense that
life was like the Alps, towering spectre-like
far over there?
	Zurich’s lake is washing at our feet; the
sun glints on the ripples made by the pass-
ing craft. These must be the little worries
of life, vexations, and not easily overcome.
	How much lies between them and the
silent Alps!
	It is so pleasant to sit here, the city’s
noise sounding like a far off babble, lulling
the mind to rest. But this is not the way
to cross the Alps, to find Italy. No! We
must climb up those freezing heights, past
the glacier and the snow. Now down deep
defiles, where the unwary may stumble or
fall, though clinging to bush or bough.
Shall we go down to darkness and despair?
Despair? No! There is a beacon light,
though we may catch but its slightest gleam.
Upward, on we go, past the rubicon. The
height is scaled, the snow in many cascades
and water falls flows down the mountain
side, and we have found Italy. O, land of
sunny skies art thou the all and all?
	Vividly rises the school scene, the flutter-
ing white dress of the wondering girl, the
poise of the sanguine boy.


“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“A fresh memorial to vanished youth
	The sweet girl graduate, with flower face,
Her eyes so full of trust, her heart of truth,
	Looking o’er all the world to find her place.
Her theme holds weighty words, and thoughts so
		staid,
	A travesty on life in phrase austere,
But youthful confidence is unafraid,
	And gladness vibrates in the tones so clear,
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“The joy of triumph and of proud applause,
	Sweet floral offerings, the music’s stir;
Fair, sunny slope of youth! O, let us pause,
	And linger in this girlhood’s glade with her,
Ere she climbs those steeps of life,
	Where womanhood with all its mystery lies.
Remember ere you go to meet its strife,
	O, maiden innocent, grown strongly wise—
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“The essay soon will yellow grow with time,
	The years will string their rosary of tears.
Weary and footsore we the hills must climb,
	And stumble o’er the stones of cares and fears.
The mists of doubt will all the landscape veil,
	The summit lies so very far away;
The feet may falter and the courage fail,
	The stern, pale lips, will quiver then to say,
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“O, when the hands that helped you up the slope,
	Shall loose the clasp, we cannot always keep,
When in the night of pain, you upward grope—
	Blinded by tears, with lagging footsteps weep.
Then let your girlhood’s maxim cheer your
		heart—
	A peal ef joy through all life’s sad refrain—
Though here we live and lose and meet and part,
	There is a height where pleasure conquers pain.
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
	The reading is ended; the sweet melody
is borne on the air. The school scene fades
away, and we are still beside the living
waters of Lake Zurich, suddenly awakened
from the dream of long ago, the Alps a liv-
ing reality, wonderful, yet unknown, stretch-
ing far away over there. 
	This side the Alps, the ice and snow,
	The other, foaming waters flow;
	This side forbidding, silent, grand,
	The other Italy’s fair land. 
	Impassable may seem the height,
	The dazzling snow may blind our sight,
	Beyond, the flowers and verdure teem,
	And Italy, our life-time dream. 
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


MOTHER’S WORK.
	OUTLINE MILLARD STAKE.
	First. Temperance and the Word of
Wisdom. Effects of example and how ex-
tensive. What physical benefit? What
spiritual benefit to be derived therefrom?
	Second. How to care for the body to
preserve health.
	Third. Counsel. What is the highest
counsel that can be sought? In what spirit
should it be given?
	Fourth. Motherhood and its responsi-
bility.
	Fifth. How to secure the obedience and
love of our children.
	Sixth. How to train our boys.
	Seventh. Work as a means of establish-
inggood habits.
	Eighth. A father’s influence.
	Ninth. Effects of cigaret smoking.
	Tenth. The ideal mother.
	Eleventh. Regularity of meals and kinds
of food to eat, and how to cook the food.
	Twelfth. How the father should counsel
his sons.
	Thirteenth. Companionship of mothers
and daughters.
	Fourteenth. Work as an educator.
	Fifteenth. Purity in the home.
	Sixteenth. Last meeting in Decemcer:
celebrate Joseph’s Smith’s birthday.
					Stake Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB.
		(Continued from page 64.)
	A number of the Club members appeared
in costume, among the characters represent-
ed, Helen of Troy, Penelope, The Empress
Eugenie, Spring and a Puritan Mother.
	At the December meeting of the Club,
original papers were read on the customs of
celebrating Christmas in other lands. Ger-
many by Mrs. Lillian Maeser, France and
India by Mrs. Mary F. Kelly, New England
States by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	At the January meeting, 1905, papers were
read, one by Mrs. M. J. Snow on “The Youth
of George Washington,” and one on “The
Friendship of Lafayette and Washington” by
Mrs. Lillian Maeser. Original poem, “Betsy
Ross and the Flag,” by Mrs. Susa Y. Gates.
Two dollars were contributed to the Utah Fe-
deration of Women’s Clubs, for the Travel-
ing Library of the U. F. W. Clubs.
	The February meeting was held at the
home of Mrs. E. S. Wilcox, where both the
Press and Reapers Club were guests, in honor
of the birthday of their founder Mrs. E. B.
Wells. Sixty ladies were present. The pro-
gram, consisted of the reading of poems from
Mrs. Wells own volume of verse, “Musings
and Memories,” songs and recitations with a
love gift to the guest of honor.
	At the May meeting Mrs. Jensen read a
very able paper on the war between Russia
and Japan, from the Russian standpoint.
	Mrs. Wilcox addressed the Club, more par-
ticularly on the wonderful record, of the lit-
tle Chinese girl, Lillie King, at the Fremont
school, who had passed all competitors by
two per cent.
	At the September meeting, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, spoke upon the early history of the
U. W. Press Club, and impressed upon its
members the importance of its position as
one of the National Women’s Clubs. Mrs.
Francis read a paper on “The Idealism of
the Home.” An original poem, “The Burgo-
master of Berne,” was read by its author, Mrs.
Kelly. Two representatives were appointed
to attend the Convention to be held at
Springville, namely Mrs. Francis, President,
and Mrs. E. S. Wilcox. Mrs. Lydia Alder
was specially invited to speak of women in
other lands by Mrs. Kinney.
	The Annual Meeting of the Club was held
in October, at the home of Dr. E. R. Shipp.
	The election of officers, resulted in Mrs.
Emma Jensen as President; Mrs. M. F. Kelly,
First Vice President; Mrs. Lillian Maeser,
Second Vice President; Mrs. Margaret Caine,
Secretary; Mrs. M. J. Snow, Cor. Secretary;
Florence Critchlow, Treasurer.
	A program consisting of sketches of women
of Biblical times, was well rendered.
	At the November meeting of the Club,held
in the Exponent office, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
addressed the Club, voicing her gratitude to
Mrs. Wells as the founder of the Press Club,
and her untiring efforts, in encouraging
mental development in the women of Utah.
Mrs. Mary E. Howell was appointed as de-
legate to the George Washington Memorial
Association meeting to be held in Washing-
ton D. C., February 1906.
	The December meeting of the Club was
held at the home of Mrs. Francis and Mrs.
Kelly. Original poems on Christmas and
other subjects were read by Dr. E. R. Shipp.
Mrs. Kelly read Pax Vobiscum, her poem,
which had received first honorable mention,
in the Deseret News Prize Competition.
	The January meeting, 1906, of the Club
was held at the home of Prest. Mrs. Jensen.
Mrs. Jensen favored the company with an

[Column 2]
excellent talk on the Bloodless War between
Norway and Sweden, giving the history of
these countries back for several centuries,
showing how the kingdoms came to be unit-
ed, and the reasons which made a disunion
without enmity possible. Mrs. Jensen gave
a fine paper on Christmas in Norway.
	Miss Eva Jensen presented a pretty pict-
ure, dressed in the peasant costume of Swe-
den.
	Music, recitations and refreshments, added
to the pleasure of the many guests.
	The February meeting was held at the
Exponent office, and was devoted to cele-
brating the birthday of its Honorary Presi-
dent and Founder Mrs. E. B. Wells. A paper
by Mrs. R. M. Fox, referred to Mrs. Wells
womanliness, and the noble rolls of wife-
hood and motherhood.
	One of Mrs. Wells’ daughters, Annie Wells
Cannon, paid a touching tribute to the truth
of the statements of Mrs. Fox.
	Mrs. M. J. Snow spoke of Mrs. Wells’ loy-
alty to every form of women’s work, for the
up-building of humanity, also as to her work
as a suffragist, and in the Woman’s Clubs.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder (but recently returned
from her extended trip abroad, whither she
had gone as a speaker to the Quinquennial
Congress, held in Berlin, June 1904) spoke
especially on Mrs. Wells’ work in literature,
referring particularly to her work as editor of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT; and of their being
together in England, whither they had gone
as members of the Quinquennial Congress,
held in London, June 1899.
	Mrs. Hattie Jensen, Mrs. M. J. Snow, and
Miss Sarah Eddington were received as
members.
	The March meeting was held at the home
of Mrs. Florence Critchlow; Mrs. M. J. Snow
was elected secretary. The Club was called
upon, by the State Federation of Club’s, that
each member contribute a book on American
history or literature, to aid in replacing the
library, which was destroyed at Sunnyside,
by fire in November last.
	A sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow, was
ably given by Mrs. Roundy.
	Mrs. Hattie Jensen spoke of the patriotic
fervor, expressed in Miss Snow’s poems.
	Mrs. Lillie Maeser spoke of her as poetess,
especially referring to her most popular
poem, “O, My Father.”
	The April meeting of 1906 was held at the
home of Dr. E. R. Shipp. Selections from
the writings of the poetess Hannah T. King
were read. Mrs. Lydia D. Alder gave an in-
teresting sketch of her life referring to the
noble stature and bearing of this gifted
woman, and of their intimate friendship
which had lasted over many years. The
death of Gladys Woodmansee, a member of
the Club, a bright sparkling, precious woman,
was announced. Also the death of Mrs. E.
J. Stevensen. A motion was made and car-
ried that the committee appointed by the
Club, draft resolutions of respect. Mrs. Alder
for Gladys Woodmansee, Dr. Shipp, Mrs.
Stevensen.
	The September, 1906, meeting was held
at the home of Mrs. Francis. Mrs. Wood-
mansee was to have been guest of honor,
but was too ill to be present. A number of
her old friends, girlhood friends in England
were present, among them Mrs. Phebe Sloan,
and Mrs. Margaret Young, were present by spe-
cial invitation. Many incidents of interest
were related, the flood of years rendering up
many treasures of the past. The poems read
during the evening were selected by Mrs.
Woodmansee herself, yet all regretted her

[Column 3]
enforced absence from the bosom of her
friends.
	The October, 1906 meeting of the Press
Club was held at the home of its President,
Mrs. E. H. Jensen. Mrs. E. B. Wells was
called to the Chair. A report of the year’s
work was read by the President, and Mrs.
Zina Y. Card was received as a member.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the George
Washington Memorial; also said that the
shares held by the Press and Reaper’s Clubs,
gave us an interest in the Woman’s Memo-
rial Association at Washington; also stated
that Utah was the first state in the Union,
that paid a subscription toward the George
Washington Memorial, and that it was col-
lected from the children of the Public Schools
of Utah. An original poem, “What is the
Best for us to do?” was read by Dr. E. R.
Shipp. Mrs. Minnie J. Snow spoke at some
length of her visit to the State Council
of Women at Ohio, which numbers some
800,000 women, some of whom make this
their life work, spending fortunes in the
cause.
	The club officers for the coming year were
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, President; Dr. E. R.
Shipp, First Vice President; Mrs. Maria
Francis, Second Vice President; Mrs. Flor-
ence S. Critchlow, Rec. Secretary; Mrs. E.
H. Jensen, Treasurer.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells moved that a new office
be created by the Club, that of Historian,
and named Mrs. L. D. Alder for the office,
as she has written the Club History for the
first decade. Moved and carried that this
motion be acted upon later, which was done
agreeable to Mrs. Wells’ suggestion.
	This closed the history of the Club for the
past five years. Many of its old members
still attend, and give of their best efforts for
its up-building. That the Press Club is dear
to “Aunt Em’s” heart, goes without saying,
and that true and lasting friendships have
grown out of the associations formed in its
members by delving into the world of
Thought and Events. “Birds of a feather,
flock together” was said of old. We have
proven it to be still true, and the reason,
that we see and understand alike, the re-
quisite of the true friendship.

The pen is mightier than the sword,
The written than the spoken word,
The written-unborn ages sway,
The spoken, breezes drift away,
So full Thoughts store house, it o’erflows,
Yet ’tis not less for all one knows;
Outstretch thine hand, Thought’s flowers are fair,
Pluck all thou wilt, none less are there.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


HONORS.
	On Wednesday evening, the 6th inst., a
reception was given in honor of Sisters
Martha A Critchlow, Nancy L. Burch and
Eveline C. Brown, the retiring presidency of
the Relief Society of the Ogden first ward.
	Sisters Critchlow and Burch have been
faithful workers in the Relief Society cause
for the past thirty years, and for twenty-
eight years held the positions of President
and First Counselor. Sister Brown acting
with them as Second Counselor for the last
eighteen years.
	By their earnest and constant labors of
love and sacrifice these sisters have en-
deared themselves to the hearts of the peo-
ple of this ward, and the present officers and
members of the organization made this a
fitting occasion for expressing the gratitude
and love felt for them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The program consisted of an eloquent ad-
dress of welcome read by Assistant Secre-
tary Lillian Belnap, remarks by Bishop D.
H. Ensign, Jane S. Richards, Stake Presi-
dent of Relief Society, and President C. F.
Middleton of the Presidency, interspersed
with musical numbers.
	One of the most interesting parts of the
program was the presentation to each of the
retiring officers of a beautiful rocking chair
from the Relief Society members. These
honored guests each made a response ex-
pressing their appreciation of the sentiment
which had prompted the tribute paid them
on this occasion.
	Dainty refreshments were served during
the time of sociability that followed, and all
departed feeling that the evening would be
long held in happy remembrance.
				ONE OF THE PARTY.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MILLARD STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Millard Stake, held in the Holden meeting-
house, January 31st, 1908. President Isa-
bella E. Robison presiding. Conference
opened with the usual exercises.
	President Isabella E. Robison was pleased
to have the brethren with us, hoped we
would be paid for coming out in the storm
to attend the conference.
	Elder Francis M. Lyman said, he would
like to hear in the reports how we stand in
regard to the word of wisdom, we realize
how influential the mothers are in the family,
and that they have a great responsibility,
try and live so we can say to our children,
you are as good as your mother, we want a
generation who will not drink tea and coffee,
who will not drink liquor, who will not use
tobacco.
	President Isabella E. Robison said her-
self and counselors had not visited the stake
recently, but had their welfare at heart. The
officers as a rule are keeping the word of
wisdom. Most of the property belonging to
the Relief Society was in real estate, there
is some wheat stored.
	President Emma Watts of Kanosh said
she was keeping the word of wisdom, at-
tending meetings and prayers and trying to
live her religion, the society is still working
for the sick and helping those who are in
need.
	Sister Annie Anderson of Oak City report-
ed in the absence of the President who was
ill, thought the majority of the sisters were
trying to keep the word of wisdom.
	President Mary A. Stephenson of Holden
said she was keeping the word of wisdom, at-
tended to prayer, paid her tithing, and taught
her children these principles. The officers
of the Relief Society are trying to keep the
word of wisdom, were looking after the sick
and poor, have furnished wood for the aged
and poor.
	Sister Adeline Smith reported Fillmore
Society in a good condition, it has a good
president who is looking after the poor, pre-
paring the dead for burial, and doing what
she can for the advancement of the Society.

[Column 2]
	Elder George F. Richards had been very
interested in the reports, and especially in
providing wood for the poor. The questions
that have been asked have a tendency to
make us review our lives, and see if we are
living up to the laws of the gospel, if we
have the favor of the Lord we must keep his
commandments; suggested that the several
presidents of the Relief Society be in a posi-
tion to know what portion of the officers
keep the word of wisdom.
	Elder Francis M. Lyman said if a mother
has her tea the daughter will have her tea
when she becomes a mother; we can as well
cultivate the habit of drinking water as tea.
Do not neglect the opportunities we have of
doing good to our neighbors and families.
	Sister Adeline Smith was set apart as first
counselor to President Robison, by Elder
Francis M. Lyman.
	Closed by singing “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” etc. Benediction by Elder
Alonzo A. Hinckley.
	Conference continued in an evening ses-
sion with much good instruction from the
sisters.
			MARINDA BENNET,
						Secretary.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The twenty-ninth quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held
in the Lehi Tabernacle, April 17th, 1908.
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
Meeting opened at 10 o’clock with the usual
exercises.
	President Standring, who had recently
been through a very severe sickness was
very thankful to meet her brethren and sis-
ters in conference again. Was grateful for
the faith which had been exercised in her
behalf, The Lord had raised her up. Was
thankful that she had been spared yet a lit-
tle while longer to fulfil the purposes of the
Lord. Spoke earnestly on the principle of
prohibition, and urged the sisters to uphold
the hands of the brethren in carrying out
this principle which would be a blessing to
all the community.
	The reports from the wards given by the
presidents were excellent. The sisters are
alive to their duties, teachers are up and
doing, the lessons on faith are appreciated
very much and the sisters report a fuller at-
tendance on the day the lesson is given.
Wheat is in good condition and our amuse-
ment committee are doing a good work;
and we are visiting the poor and lonely and
those who live at a distance, for we carry
substantial comforts as well as the spirit of
the gospel to cheer and comfort them.
	Song, “Dear heart we’re growing old.”
Sisters Clarke and Whitmer of Lehi.
	President Abel J. Evans congratulated the
Society. “Our missionaries give wonderful
testimonies of the work in their different
fields of labor, and it is a theme of rejoicing.
There is a great work for us to do in teach-
ing and instructing our children. It requires
a strenuous effort on tbe part of parents to
institute a watch over their boys,” he was
in full favor of prohibition and is devoted
to the cause of temperance; “it belongs to
us in following out the commandments of

[Column 3]
the Lord. We should be a light to the
world. Our faces should be set against
crime.
	Sister Mary Ann Winters of Salt Lake
City, was pleased with the silent testi-
mony of this beautiful building. Rejoiced
in the blessings of this kingdom, of which
she had received a full share. She knew
that this was the true Church and that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Sister
Winters said she had attended the first
meeting of young people held in Nauvoo,
and was thankful she had lived to see the
sisters organized in these various associa-
tions. Urged the sisters to throw their arms
of protection around the children. Remind
them of their birthday when it is time for
them to be baptized.
	Meeting closed by singing and prayer.
Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session 2 o’clock. President
Standring presiding. After the opening
exercises, four of the local presidents report-
ed their wards as doing well, and advancing
in the principles of the gospel and doing all
the good they could.
	Sister Kate Allred of Lehi 2nd Ward gave
the lesson on faith in Jesus Christ from the
Stake plan, followed by Sisters Kate All-
red and Josephine Brown with references on
the same subject, and testified to the benefit
that these lessons are to those who study
them.
	Song, “I know that my Redeemer lives,”
Lehi 4th Ward R. S.
	President Stephen L. Chipman had en-
joyed the reports and also the singing. We
can enjoy the Spirit of the Lord as much
from such beautiful singing as when listen-
ing to reports or instruction. Faith is stronger
than sight is proven by Jesus reply to
Thomas when He said “Blessed are those
who see and believe, but more blessed are
those who believe and see not.”
	Bishop Hindley of American Fork was
pleased that the sisters were taking up the
study of the Life of Christ. There is so
much to learn of His life, and the more we
know of it the more we feel as though we
want to live a better life. Referred to in-
stances where God’s voice was heard to re-
cognize Jesus as His Son. How thankful
we should be that God visited this continent
and introduced His Son to the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Many of our parents heard
the voice of the Good Shepherd in a foreign
land, and were converted to the gospel at
its first sound. I sometimes think we
brethren do not appreciate our mothers and
our wives as much as we should. Let us
show our appreciation of them while they
are still living, and not wait until they are
dead and gone. Scatter flowers of kind
words and actions while they are still with
us.
	Bishop Gardner of Lehi spoke of the capa-
bility of the Relief Society to perform the
duties. The spirit of the gospel is what makes
us what we are, it gives us joy and peace.
We all have our failings, and it is our duty
to learn as much as possible to overcome
them. The Lord has revealed this principle
of temperance and prohibition years ago to
our Prophet. It is the young mothers that
should come to these meetings and learn
how to take care of their children. Prayed
God to bless us and enable us to do our
duty.
	Benediction by President Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

