Vol. 36					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER, 1907.						No. 4


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Interesting Letter................Susie M. Morgan		25
Relief Society Lecture to Mothers.................
......................................Mary Berlin Johnson	25
Relief Society Reports:—Box Elder Stake....	27
	Teton Stake.............................................	29
	Uintah Stake...........................................	29
	Bannock Stake........................................	30
	Alpine Stake...........................................	30
A Tribute.........................................................	31
Editorial:—An Artistic Booklet......................	28
	October General Conference...................	28
	General Relief Society Conference.........	28
	Relief Society Work Abroad...................	29
	History of the U. W. Pressclub................
	.........................................Lydia D. Alder	31
Poetry:—Things to Forget.................Selected	25
	A Dream of Burnd Things.......................
	.................................William B Chi-holm	27
	When You Come Home...Clarence Urmy	27


THINGS TO FORGET.
If you see a tall fellow ahead of a crowd,
A leader of men marching fearless and proud,
And you know of a tale whose mere telling a oud
Would cause his proud head to in anguish be
		bowed,
	It’s a pretty good plan to forget it.
If you know of a skeleton hidden away
In a closet, and guarded, and kept from the day,
In the dark, and whose showing, whose sudden
		display,
Would cause grief and sorrow and lifelong dis-
		may,
	It’s a pretty good plan to forget it.
If you know of a thing that will darken the joy
Of a man or a woman a girl or a boy,
That will wipe out a smile r the least way annoy
A fellow, or cause any gladness to cloy.
	It’s a pretty good plan to forget it.
								Selected.


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING LETTER.
	HAZELDENE FARM, AMALINDA,
		near East London, Cape Colony,
				September 8th, 1907.
	To Mrs Bathsheba Smith.
DEAR SISTER IN THE LORD:
	A letter from this place may be a sur-
prise to you, but I pray that you will re-
ceive it kindly.
	I long to see you, and as that privilege
is denied, the next best thing to a face to
face interview is a talk on paper. I am
a “Latter-day Saint,” was baptized on
April 3rd of this year and I cannot ex-
press my great joy and peace in our glori-
ous grand gospel, although I have been a
Christian all my life, never before have I
been so happy and satisfied. I have al-
ways worked for all that is good and en-
nobling and uplifting, tried to be like
Jesus, our dear elder Brother and Savior.
I am eldest living of mother’s family of
twelve. I was born on 9th January 1869
in Salt Lake City, came to C. C. when a

[Column 2]
year old with my parents, who were Mor-
mons. Away from the Church has been
of harm to this family. We have not had
the blessings and privileges of our moth-
er’s religion. My brother of 23 was bapt-
ized with me and I think others will be in
time. I have only one child, a boy of 10.
He was baptized and I hope to bring him
up a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	I am intensely interested in all accounts
of our Church meetings, conferences, etc.
and read with joy every item I can find in
Deseret News. A few copies of WOMAN’S
EXHONENT have come to me from time
to time. I am always interested in the
Relief Society reports and especially in
your words. I was so glad to see your
picture in May number and I feel to
want to send you my heartfelt wishes
and I am at last obeying the promptings
of my heart. I would love to meet a
woman who had known our beloved
Prophet Joseph. I hope you will send me
a few lines of your testimony as to His
divine mission from one who has known
him will be valued by me. The elders
who have labored in this city have been
so true and earnest and I count it a bles
sing to have met such pure, good, young
men. We missed Elder Cannon, he is
indeed a sweet Christian, so few respond
to the message. We number only six
in E. L. I long to be in Utah where I
could enjoy the services and engage in
work of all kinds and see the lovely
temple. In becoming a “Mormon” I know
I shall have some thing to bear. I already
feel a coolness of some friends toward me
and my sensitive nature shrinks from be-
ing hurt and pained, but the Father will
make me brave to defend our faith that is
so misunderstood. My mother and I long
to go to Utah and it is our daily hope and
prayer that the way may be opened for
us to go. My dear good father died eight
years ago, had he lived, he had resolved
to take us all back to Utah. Oh, how we
miss him, and mother has never been the
same since that terrible grief. Letters
from our sisters in Utah do cheer us. I
know you are a busy woman and your age
as well, but I hope and pray for a few
words from you as soon as you can. I
shall esteem it a favor. Hoping this finds
you in good health. Mother joins me in
love. Think of me as your sister in the
Gospel.			Susie M. Morgan.
	MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH.
Many a happy year be thine
	If our Father will!
He has traced the fair design
	He will fill it, line by line,
Working patiently, until
	Thy completed life shall shine
Glorious in the life divine.
“Upward, still upward,” thy pathway be
	Into the sunshine grand and free;
Leaving the mists and clouds below.
	Gaining the pure and stainless snow
“Upward, still upward” Thy faithful Guide
	Always clo e at His Pilgrims s de
Leading thee on from height to height,
	Nearer and nearer the stars of light.
						SUSIE M. MORGAN.

[Column 3]
	R.S. LECTURE TO MOTHERS.
	In the beginning of the world God
placed man on earth to have dominion
over all the earth. He also gave him
woman, equally intelligent. It seems or-
dained that man should be at the head.
He is physically stronger, and to the wife
he is head, husband and protector on
earth. As a father he stands at the head
of the family.
	Close by him stands the wife, who is
to be a helpmeet, a comfort, and to be
mother; for no greater mission can be
given her than to be a mother.
	She is equally responsible for the prop-
er government of the children. It is her
right to walk shoulder to shoulder with
her companion in seeking knowledge and
intelligence.
	Truly if the husband is a man in every
sense of the word, the wife can be a
woman in every sense of the word also.
President Joseph F. Smith says: “A man
that is a true Latter-day Saint will make
a good husband; the same with the wo-
man—she will make a good wife.” He
has also said: “A man that will not live
up to his duties in the priesthood need
not demand obedience from his wife.”
	It is hard for the mother when the
father is indifferent to teach, guide and
direct her children in the path she desires
them to go. The same, or perhaps more
so, when the mother is indifferent. When
there is division at the head of the fam-
ily, it will surely prove instability of
character in the children.
	Children should be taught to respect
the right which the parents have to con-
trol over them, and respect their parents’
authority, by asking permission to go, or
to do anything in which they need coun-
sel and advice. Children who will do
this are the ones who will respect those
in authority away from home—the school
teacher, the Primary and Sunday-school
teacher, those in authority in the differ-
ent organizations of the ward—the bish-
op and the authority of God.
	Every member of the family should
have their rights respected; even the
youngest member should be taught not
to take brother’s or sister’s book. Broth-
ers or sisters should not take, borrow or
make use of anything which belongs to
another brother or sister without their
consent. For doing such things in their
absence or without consent will surely
bring disappointment, ill-feeling and an-
gry words. When the rights of each one
in the family are strictly regarded, the
children can be trusted everywhere they
go, “and the principles of honor and jus-
tice will be stamped upon their charac-
ters.”
	Ephesians 6:4: “And ye fathers, pro
voke not your children to wrath; but
bring them up in the nurture and admo-
nition of the Lord.”
	Oftimes parents offend their children
by a word or a phrase, saying, “Oh, you
fool!” or “You ain’t got any sense!” if
they did not do everything exactly right.
Children are sensitive, and their little


[Column 1]
hearts are easily hurt. There are chil-
dren who are accustomed to hear such
language; but what kind of children are
they? Children who are ding-donged at
and receive a volley of harsh words for
every little mistake, can never rise or at-
tain to that high standard of morality to
which they might if better examples were
set before them.
	“What we want our children to be
we must be also,” is a true saying.
“Bring them up in the nurture and ad-
monition of the Lord” is the same exhor-
tation to parents in this day.
	Doc. and Cov. 68: 25-28: “And again,
inasmuch as parents have children in
Zion, or in any of her stakes which are
organized, and teach them not the doc-
trine of repentance, faith in Christ the
Son of the living God, and of baptism,
and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands when eight years old,
the sin be upon the heads of parents;
	“For this shall be a law unto the in-
habitants of Zion or any of her stakes
which are organized;
	“And their children shall be baptized
for the remission of their sins when eight
years old and receive the laying on of
hands.
	“And they also shall teach their chil-
dren to pray and to walk uprightly before
the Lord.”
	Children at any age should be obedient
and regard their parents rights. Nor
have they any right to dictate to their
parents what they ought to do or ought
not to do. How beautiful to see or hear
a young man or woman asking counsel
or advice of the parents the same as
when they were young children. Surely
these are examples in every Latter-day
Saint home. The Savior, having such
great wisdom and knowledge that He
could astound the lawyers, doctors, and
wise men with questions and answers,
doing the will of His Father in heaven,
yet was He obedient to His earthly par-
ents, for “He was subject unto them.”
	“Honor thy father and thy mother” is
one of the commandments given to Moses
for the children of Israel. With this
commandment was a promise given,
“that thy days may be long upon the
land.”
	God is the Father of our spirits, and
we should honor Him by keeping His
commandments. If we do this we shall
love Him. Next to God we should hon-
or our parents, those who gave us birth,
watched over us with tenderness and
love, have cared for us and trained us up
in our youth and we being the most help-
less beings God had created while in in-
fancy, therefore need the utmost care.
	How dangerous for a young man or
woman to judge their parents, finding
fault with them, saying if they had done
better or differently we would have been
better and could have done better. But
we do not know of their opportunities or
their environment.
	Shakespeare says, “We think our fath-
ers fools: our sons will no doubt think us
so.”
	Those parents who came here for
the gospel’s sake to this blessed land,
where saints and prophets are, and can
draw inspiration from the beauties of na-
ture—from vale and mountain,—have
placed their children in a better way of
advancement. There is no excuse for
those who have the gospel which teaches

[Column 2]
us right and truth, and by keeping the
commandments of God we will find no
time to find fault, and especially with
our parents. We will not feel to do so.
	No greater honor can children bestow
upon parents than by walking in the
paths of virtue, truth and righteousness.
It will fill their souls with joy and peace,
and would call down heaven’s choicest
blessings; then we could expect our chil-
dren to fill our lives with joy and peace.
Surely this would prolong life, and the
promise could not help but be fulfilled,
“that thy days may be- long upon the
land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee.”
	“Charity begins at home,” so says the
old proverb.
	If we are charitable at home we can ex-
pect to be elsewhere. Charity is a virtue
which raises the soul nearer heaven.
	Corinthians 13th chapter. Charity in
all its forms is to be admired, and when
practiced in the form of love and for-
bearance it is beautiful. If we take
charity in the form of almsgiving, it
should be encouraged, but we may be lib-
eral in almsgiving and not be charitable.
We may set a table and decorate it beau-
tifully, and place rich food before our
guests, but if we are not charitable, it is
not true hospitality. If we see every
fault and failing with those with whom
we associate and make remarks on them,
we are wanting in true charity.
	If ever there were a people whom the
Savior could not tolerate, it was the hyp-
ocrites, who said and did things just to be
seen of men. But he said, “Verily, veri-
ly I say unto you, they have their re-
ward.” As the old story goes, of the
rich man who passed by, and refused a
poor, ragged girl who asked him for a
penny to buy bread as he went to church
to give in his thousands of dollars to the
poor. How the people praised him and
put his name in the papers in big head-
lines and said how generous and liberal
he was. Truly he got his reward—the
praise of men. We have reason to be-
lieve there are many instances of true
charity throughout the world where there
is distress, sickness and poverty, where
there is no one to see, only the individu-
als themselves, and no one to record. But
we believe, as the song says, “Angels
are silent notes taking of every action,”
etc.
	Deut. 15: 11: “The poor shall never
cease out of the land,” therefore I com-
mend the saying, “Thou shalt open thine
hands wide unto thy brother, to the
poor, and to thy needy in thy land-” The
scriptures are full of such admonitions.
There are many ways of helping the
poor. We can see the wisdom of our
Father in inspiring the Prophet Joseph
Smith to organize the Relief Society.
Truly much good has been done, and we
cannot estimate the great good which
will be done through the organization.
Then we have a chance to give fast-offer-
ings or donations to the poor, and by pay-
ing an honest tithing the poor need not
want.
	In the sayings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, by O. B. Huntington. On one
occasion the Prophet was asked the
meaning of the words of the Savior,
“Make to yourselves friends of the mam-
mon of unrighteousness, and when ye fail
they may receive you into everlasting
habitations.” Brother Huntington mar-

[Column 3]
veled at the words; this is as near as he
remembers them:
	“That every man will fail some time.
Be charitable and liberal with your sub-
stance, for it is only a secondary consid-
eration—the use you make of it is the
primary consideration. You may do good
to some one who is down today, and who
will be on the top of the wheel when you
are down; for every man will fail some
time.”
	Charity obeys the Lord’s commands:
“Do unto others as you would have them
do to you;” “Love thy neighbor as thy-
self;” “Thou shalt not bear false witness
against thy neighbor.”
	Charity is self-restraint, self-forgetful-
ness. It does not willingly listen to the
voice of slander, and if compelled, does
not repeat it. Charity is characteristic
of a true woman and gentleman. Polite-
ness born of charity, is gentle, engaging
in manner, and shows in every action of
a true and refined woman, while lack of
charity and vulgar manners are looked
upon with contempt and such persons are
neither loved nor respected. 
	It is necessary that mothers train their
little ones to practice little acts of char-
ity and kindness, te be polite to brothers
and sisters as well as to visitors or strang-
ers. Mothers should not encourage tale
bearing or to speak unkindly of their 
playmates., for allowing these feelings to
take root in their little hearts unchecked,
the seeds of future uncharitable feelings
are sown. Teach them lessons of self-
denial and unselfishness. Point out to
them to do to others as they would be
done by, and to return good for evil. It 
may seem hard, but with patience and
perseverance, good results will be seen,

		A POEM ON SYMPATHY,
O sympathy, thou greatest gift of God!
E’en in the greatest men who earth have trod
So rarely found! Thy gentle, beauteous calm
Acting on we ry souls like healin[-] balm,
Dispelling care and softening the pain,
Brings with it peace, restores to life again.
Behold it yonder, by the sufferer's bed,
It smooths the pillows, cools the aching head,
Speaks tenderly, and by its inward power
Makes the long day of pain seem but an hour.
Daring disease its mission to fulfill;
Flies swift on eagle’s wings to do God’s will;
Fearless of danger, even o the grave
’Twould hasten, but one pang of pain to save.
’Tis but a look the h aving of a sigh,
The clasped hand, the tear-drop in the eye,
All speak its language—eloquence divine!
That makes the soul that feels its presence
	shine
With God-like beauty, shedding rays of light, 
In rays of glory, through the darkest night
Of human pain, perplexity and care
Longing to ease the burden and to share
With those distressed the misery and woe.
Those who have felt its value only know
The soothing magic of its tender love:
Its wondrous strength, yet gentle as a dove,
Could I the riches of a king command, 
Amid the train of earth’s proud heroes stand
A conqueror—applanded and admired,
Or could I, with the zeal of science, fired 
Discover planets, know each flashing star,
And tell the world the distances they are,
And had not sympathy within my breast,
I were a poor, a miserable jest, 
Compared with him who can for others feel,
Who gently tries the wounded heart to heal,
E'en though he were the poorest on the earth,
Yet in this one a pearl of wondrous worth
In sight of God; and deemed by Him to be
A king, who hath within him sympathy.

	By reading the life of Christ we will
find that he was the most sociable and
sympathetic Being that ever lived on the
earth. And if we are His followers we
should try to follow His example.


He exercised His love and tenderness
towards every one. His daily duties
were made up of relieving the sick, the
distressed ones, healing the afflicted. He
comforted the poor, the lowly, the down-
cast and weary-hearted, and those who
had cause to mourn. He knew the sor-
rows and griefs of the soul, the pains and
aches of the human heart, and the temp-
tations which come to every one.
	Through His own severe suffering He
could feel for all of us. He taught us to
love, pray for and forgive our enemies—
the hardest thing for mortals to do. Yet
He taught us by example, and even were
the last act of His life, for He healed
Judas’ (His traitor’s) ear. Then, when
left entirely in the hands of His enemies,
taking all their scoffs, scorn and mockery
without a word or look of reproach, suffer-
ing untold agonies, utterly forsaken by
friends, it seemed He stood alone. Yet
He could look upon His enemies and
pray, “Father forgive them, for they
know not what they do.”
	He had won the victory over every
weakness of the human heart. The hon-
or and glory He gave to His Father. Now
He intercedes with Father and pleads for
His children always, for He is our Savior
and our King.
			MARY BERLIN JOHNSON.
	Huntsville, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A DREAM OF BURIED THINGS.
I dream a dream of roses
	That perished long ago;
Of hyaeinths and mignonettes,
Ah, dream of tenderest regrets!
	Ah, morn of storm and snow!
I dream a dream of childhood,
	Though s l[-]er[-] my brow;
I still am with the merry one,
	A merry partner now;
Ah, dream of long forgotten things;
Ah, perished moths of gaudy wings!
			WILLIAM B. CHISHOLM.


WHEN YOU COME HOME.
What golden suns will gild the happy skies,
What incense from the meadow altars rise,
What hymns fill all the groves with glad sur-
	prise—
			When you come home!
How memory-bells will softly ring and rhyme
Amid the dear old ivied towers of time,
As arm in arm we listen to their chime—
			When you come home!
At Joy’s bright festal board shall we sit down,
And Mirth and Music, each wi h myrtle crown,
Will drive away the tear, the sigh, the frown—
			When you come home!
Suspense will quickly change to calm content,
Desire with rare fulfilment will be blent,
And meeting be one long, sweet sacrament—
			When you come home!
					CLARENCE URMY.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Box
Elder Stake met in the First Ward Meet-
inghouse, Tuesday, June 18th, 1907,

[Column 2]
President Susannah P. Booth presiding,
present besides the stake Relief Society
officers, President Oleen N. Stohl and W.
C. Horsley of the Stake Presidency.
	After opening exercises singing, prayer,
etc., Prest. S. P. Booth was thankful to
her Heavenly Father for His blessings to
her, and she had a desire to do her duty.
Said the prophecies that had been given
were being fulfilled. Spoke at some
length on the Word of Wisdom; said if
we tried to live up to the commandments
the Lord had given us, He would bless
us, urged the sisters to pay their tithes
and offerings; also spoke on the storing
of grain; had visited some of the associ-
ations and found a good spirit prevailing,
was pleased with the interest that was
being taken in the “Mothers’ Work.”
May the Lord bless us and help us to do
our duty.
	Annie C. Johnson, President of the
first ward, Brigham City, reported the
Mothers’ work, which was doing nicely.
Felt to thank the Lord for the blessings
He bestowed upon them in their labors.
Charlotte W. Boden, President of the
second ward, Brigham City, said the
teachers visit quite regularly; spoke on
the Word of Wisdom, and felt if we
could live it, it would be for our good.
	Emma Lee, President of the third
ward, Brigham City, said they had a good
per cent who kept the Word of Wisdom;
gave many good instructions on the same.
	Prest. Sarah J. Wilde of the fourth ward,
Brigham City, reported the teachers visit
quite regular, and were doing a good
work, were doing well in the Mothers
Work. Spoke some on the Word of Wis-
dom. Felt well in the Relief Society
work, and in the work of the Lord; urged
all to try and overcome evil, and try to
do all the good they could.
	Sister Torbinson of Snowville: they
had a good band of sisters, were doing
well with their Mothers Work; had no
poor, but were all working and trying to
do their duty to the best of their ability.
	Stake Counselor W. C. Horsley was
very pleased to see so many present, and
find the attendance so good, 18 associ-
ations being represented out of 20. Took
up the subject of Word of Wisdom, urged
all to go to their Heavenly Father and
ask his help to keep it. Spoke on having
watchful care over our children and to
set them good examples.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. af-
ter singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, after opening exer-
cises Prest. Booth said we had a little
change to make in the stake board, Sis-
ter Lettie Forsgreen having resigned as
corresponding secretary. Sister Lula B.
Call was chosen and sustained to fill the
vacancy.
	Prest. Sophia Anderson reported the
Bothwell society as doing very nice-
ly, but on account of so much sickness
had not been able to meet regularly; had
a good band of sisters who were trying to
do their duty, thought the Word of Wis-
dom was kept by the majority of the peo-
ple.
	Sister Louisa E. Peters said her health
had not been the best, but thought trials
sometimes come upon us to test us, spoke
on the conveniences today, but thought
there was also more temptations to lure
our children away; felt we should pray
for them that they might not go astray.

[Column 3]
She asked the Lord to bless the Relief
Society that it may grow in strength and
good works.
	Prest. Sophia Larsen of East Garland
wondered if we appreciate the many good
things we hear from time to time, felt we
often make excuses for not attending
meeting. Spoke on the Word of Wis-
dom, felt it was for our good to keep it,
and receive the promise given if we keep
the commandments of the Lord.
	A hymn entitled “The Lord Imparted
from Above,” etc., was sung by Sister
Martha Ensign.
	Sister Emma Pratt, President of the
Scandinavian association, said we all have
a testimony that the Gospel is true and
bore her testimony to the truth of the
same; the Scandinavian sisters were still
having good times together, they pay their
donations, had emigrated recently two
sisters; when they hold their meetings
their instructions were Word of Wisdom,
tithing, and all things for the good of the
sisters.
	Counselor Emilia D. Madsen spoke on
the Word of Wisdom, felt pleased with
the visiting committee, thought it would
do much good in getting the people out
to meetings; said a few words on the
Mothers work, and on her early experi-
ence and the trials she had to endure for
the Gospel, said when our spirit is full of
energy we want to do good, spoke against
girls picking up acquaintances with
strangers; felt it was a privilege to live in
this day.
	Sister Lula B. Call read a letter ad-
dressed to the sisters from Sister Wells,
the General Secretary, explaining why the
missionaries could not come.
	Counselor Mary J. Harding knew the
Gospel was true, spoke on the Word of
Wisdom; thought we could keep it if we
tried. She had enjoyed many blessings
and was trying to overcome her weak-
nesses, urged keeping our children home
at night, referred to the Mothers work
and the good it was to our young moth-
ers.
	A duet was nicely rendered by Misses
Emma Stohl and Severena Madsen enti-
tled “Springtime of the Soul.”
	Stake President Oleen N. Stohl was
pleased at the attendance of the confer-
ence, felt the sisters were setting a good
example for the future, hoped the officers
of the stake were united, urged them to
hold their board meetings and have a
thorough understanding on all things that
was to come before their meetings. Gave
his experience on reading at home, spoke
on dress and the disposition of our wo-
men to keep in fashion. Spoke on the
Word of Wisdom, read the revelation on
the same; said if we obey the laws of God
we would secure our blessings. God
bless the sisters in this noble cause and
give you strength to overcome evil. 
	Prest Booth felt the time had been
well spent, said a few words on the Word
of Wisdom, had faith in her Heavenly
Father and knew he would help her to
overcome her weaknesses. Prayed the
spirit of this conference might rest upon
all of us and that we might take it home
to help us in our labors. Asked the bless-
ings of the Lord upon all.
	Singing “How Firm a Foundation.”
Benediction by Sister Sadie Stohl.
	ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Asst. Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent
	
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s cond class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	OCTOBER, 1907


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our president of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters of
the Relief Society or others who might de-
sire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blesssngs.” Pub-
lished for her eighty-fifth birthday. There
are in the book good pictures of Sister
Smith thirty-five years ago, also one taken
forty years ago with Sisters Eliza R Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, and Emily P. Young,
and one taken recently. Price of the book,
fifty cents.


[Column 1]
OCTOBER GENERAL CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints this year
was one of the largest if not the very largest
in attendance of people ever held. It is not a
remarkable fact when we consider the growth
of the Church not merely at home by means
of family life, but the spread of the work in
other lands and in our own country, which
necssarily means numbers of Saints gath-
ering to Zion. The fact remains, how-
ever, that the crowds at the conference meet-
ings could not find standing room in the
large tabernacle; and other places also were
filled to overflowing on Sunday, October 6,
1907. Indeed, when all the halls available
near the Temple were filled, the streets were
crowded with people; therefore, it is safe to
say Zion is growing, but when we give the
true interpretation of Zion, “the pure in
heart,” will it apply then?
	The sermons delivered during the confer-
ence were of the very best, sound, practi-
cal advice, wise and judicious reasoning,
though plain and clear, easily comprehend-
ed by all who heard the inspired words of
the speakers. The sacred music was of the
highest order, uplifting the soul and mellow-
ing the feelings of the human heart. There
was really nothing to mar the harmony
that prevailed in the large and cruwded as-
semblies, and there was much food for
thought that will benefit all who heard the
words of eternal truth uttered by the in-
spired men of God who addressed the
people with such sublime eloquence as to
appeal to the higher nature of the vast mul-
titude of men and women.
	When one reflects upon the great men of
today who speak to us from time to time,

[Column 2]
and recall the great men of the past, whose
names are familiar to the Latter-day Saints,
we c[-]n but wonder that greater progress
spiritually has not been made. But it is
only natural that we should need while here
in this earthly probation, line upon line,
precept upon precept, here a little and there
a little. We are like children—we need re-
minding of our duties and obligations; and
though it be necessary sometimes to chas-
tise the saints, yet the Lord is even more
merciful than we could expect or even than
we ourselves often are to each other. Cer-
tainly the blessings poured out upon this
people (called Mormons) here in these
mountain vales are far beyond what could
have been anticipated by even the most
hopeful.
	Indeed, thinking of the crude primitive
times in the early days in this valley, and
coming upon such scenes of opulence and
splendor as are seen nowadays, is like listen-
ing to a fairy tale. But meantime are we
laying up treasures in heaven commensurate
with what we are participating in here? We
must all answer for ourselves, and let us
hope and believe many of this people who
have come here for the Gospel’s sake are.
The young generation, born here in the
midst of plenty, do not and cannot realize
what the early settlers endured nor the sac-
rifices they made. Many of these things
are too harrowing in detail to bear repeat-
ing, and if told they could never be por-
trayed as they actually transpired.
	It is not worth while to dwell upon the
past. The immense future that is looming
up before this people and world will occupy
the attention, call for all the activities of
the men and women who live, or who will
be living to take part in the great dispensa-
tion now being ushered in; and it behooves
all those who are partakers of the Gospel
“feast of fat things,” to be diligent “in
season and out of season,” and help in the
work established, that none may fail for lack
of understanding, or because the watchmen in
Zion have been sleeping at their post—and
the writer includes in the word watchmen
women as well as men, mothers as well as 
fathers, and fathers as well ss mothers. 
	Certainly, there never has been a time 
when every organization of the holy priest-
hood and every auxiliary organization in 
the Church, and under its auspices was in 
such good order and as well and harmon-
iously regulated as at present, and when 
every endeavor seems to be put forth to 
bring all quorums and organizations up to 
sueh a high standard of excellence. 
	All this is a matter of rejoicing, and yet 
there are more avenues opening every day, 
one might say, for the workers. All is not
done, nor perhaps begun, though many 
have finished their work here and gone for-
ward (according to the faith in which they 
so implicitly trust), and many new recruits 
have come and are still coming, and the 
hosts of Israel are still being added to and 
strengthened, and yet all are not converted, 
and we have more or less of vanity and ar-
rogance, and pride and frivolity among those 
who are growing up right here; but what 
more can be done will undoubtedly be by 
those who are vigilant and faithful in the 
interests of Zion and her people. 
	The Lord is mindful of his covenant 
people, and will fulfill all His promises con-
cerning Zion. “Beautiful for situation, the 
joy of the whole earth is mount Zion.
* * * God is known in her palaces for a 
refuge. For lo, the kings were assembled—
they passed by together. They saw it, and

[Column 3]
so they marveled, they were troubled and 
hasted away.” * * *
	“Walk about Zion, and go round about 
her, tell the towers thereof.”


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The general conference of the Relief
Society of the Church was held on Thurs-
day, October 3, 1907, in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, and was the
largest congregation in the forenoon ever
present at a morning session. The organ
was draped with the Society banners, and
potted plants and cut flowers ornamented
the stands, where the presiding officers
and speakers were seated.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith presid-
ed and made an address of welcome, that
won the hearts of her audience, as well as
their most respectful and earnest atten-
tion to every word she uttered in her dig-
nified and saint-like, womanly way.
	The music was excellent in every par-
ticular, the hymns well chosen, and those
who sang and played seemed to partake
of the lofty spirit of the sacred occasion.
	The sisters from a distance who report-
ed their work were pleasing and concise
in presenting the subjects with which
they had to deal, and the spirit of the
Relief society as it is understood by its
workers was embodied in the reports,
the teachings and instructions given.
	The afternoon session was still more
largely attended, the gallery as well as
the lower hall being filled with ladies. A
few brethren were present also, and the
congregation was favored with the pres-
ence of two of the Apostles, Elder John
Henry Smith and Elder George Albert
Smith, who each addressed the audience
on Gospel subjects, dwelling at some
length upon woman’s part in the great
plan of salvation, giving much credit to
the mothers in Israel for the labor already
accomplished, and urging upon the young-
er women to take hold of the work of the
Relief Society, and assist in the mission
of ministering to the sick and afflicted,
comforting the sorrowing and clothing
and feeding the hungry and destitute.
	The brethren seemed to realize the im-
portance and magnitude of this charitable
and philanthropic organization, and to
appreciate the fact that more of the
younger sisters are needed in this first
and greatest society of the women of this
Church.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells had been
given to speak upon at this afternoon
session “Reminiscences of President Em
ma Smith’s two counselors in the first Re-
lief Society organized.” Sarah M. Cleve-
land and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, there
was very little time and therefore only a
few points touched upon, but some items
may appear in the minutes of this interest-
ing conference at a later date.
	On Monday, October 7, 1907, a testi-
mony meeting of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in Barratt Hall, which was
filled with sisters, many of them from far-
off stakes of Zion, Mexico and Canada,
and some from foreign lands. It was a
very interesting meeting, and would be a
wonderful spectacle to women unac-
quainted with the lives and efforts of the
women of Zion. At this meeting Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presided, and
bore her testimony of the truth of the
Gospel, and of the divine mission of


Joseph Smith the Prophet of the Lord,
with whom she was personally acquaint-
ed and could speak from her own experi-
ence and observation. Sister Emmeline
B. Wells offered the opening prayer.
Excellent music was also furnished for
this meeting, and the spirit of the Lord
was manifest throughout the services, the
only drawback being that there was not
sufficient time for many who desired to
speak.
	At 2 p. m. in the Assembly Hall, on the
same day, Monday, Oct. 7th, the quinquen-
nial meeting of this great society of wo-
men, that extends all over the word (al-
most in every land and clime) was held
and important business transacted. This
meeting is for all the women of the So-
ciety and all who are interested in it even
if they are not members. A brief review
of the work of the Society at home and
abroad is given and much that is not so
well known to the sisters generally is
gone, over that the members may know
what is being accomplished and for what
purposes, and how the means entrusted 
to the General Society is used for the pub-
lic welfare of the society at large.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY WORK ABROAD.
	One of the members of the Board of
Directors or General Board of the Relief
Society as it is perhaps better understood,
Sister Romania B. Penrose, is now so-
journing abroad, and since she left home
last January she has been doing active
work among the sisters in Great Britain,
Ireland and Scotland. Sister Penrose
has assisted President C. W. Penrose and
other Elders, presidents of conferences
or local brethren reorganizing nineteen
branches of the Relief Society and in re-
organizing some others.
	In the Irish conference there are two
branches, one in Dublin with Wilhelmnia
Baker president, and Babette Retz sec-
retary. In Belfast, Maud Ditty, presi-
dent, Agnes Anderson secretary. In
North London, London Conference R. S.
I. R. Crafts Pres., A. M. Stevens Sec.
In the Liverpool Conference there are
two branches of the Relief Society organ-
ized the Blackburn, Sarah Grayson Pres.
Elizabeth Ann Haworth Sec. Accrington,
Mary H. Grimshaw Pres. Ada Watson Sec.
In the Grimsby Conference there are two
branches of the Relief Society. One in
Hull, Annie Elizabeth Crafts Pres. Lillian
Maud Thomas Sec. In York, Alice Day
Pres. Gertrude Harrow Ainslie Sec. Lei-
cester Branch, Nottingham Conference
Sarah Jackson Pres. Lilian B. Hunt Sec.
Bristol branch, Bristol Conference, Mary
Ann Jane Caswell Pres. Ada Capel Sec.
Sneffield branch, Sheffield Conference
Annie Eliza Shaw Pres. Annie M. Wright
Treas. Name of Sec. not glven. Worksip
Sheffield Conference Lucy Fretwell Pres.
Rosa Cockings Sec. Hyde Branch Man-
chester Conference Sarah Jane Rowbottom
Pres. Edith Morgan Sec. Norwich, Nor-
wich Conference Elizabeth Southgate Pres.
Alice Bunell Sec. From all of these we
have received statistical and financial re-
ports, but these are all newly organized
and it is due to Sister Penrose efforts that
these reports have been sent in.
	There is also a financial report and let-
ter from Berlin, and we just received in the
Millennial Star report of a Relief Society
organized at Stratford more recently.


Stratford branch, London Conference
Relief Society organized October 8, 1907
Leah Beus Pres. Bessie Dreapes Sec. Re-
lief Society organized in Harthford, New-
castle Conference, Elizabeth Allison Pres.
Margaret M. Spark Sec. In Carlisle New-
castle Conference Relief Society organized
Fannie Walker Pres., Miss Sarah J. Wet-
tersal Sec.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		TETON STAKE.
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Con-
ference convened at Driggs June 23, 1907.
President Sophia E. Rigby presiding.
	One visitor, Mary C. Lambert from the
General Relief Society. There were seven
of the Stake Board present, fifty local
officers and members and a good repre-
sentation of the Priesthood.
	After the preliminary exercises Presi-
dent Sophia E. Rigby delivered the open-
ing address and welcomed those present.
The following wards were then reported:
	Victor, by Counselor Vilate Wilson.
	Pratt, by President Hannah Stevens.
	Driggs, by Counselor Mary Fairbanks.
	Clawson, by President Mary Henry.
	The reports showed that an interest
was being manifest by the Relief Society
workers.
	Sister Mary C. Lambert of the General
Society spoke earnestly of the interest
that should be manifest in the rising gen-
eration; and the storing  of grain was
spoken of and the necessity of it, also of
the divine mission of Joseph the Prophet.
	President Sophia E. Rigby gave an out-
line of the work being done in the stake.
	President D. C. Driggs of the Teton
Stake spoke of the spirit of inspiration
that comes to Latter-day Saints while lis-
tening to an account of the life and labors
of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	J. D. Kilpack, jr., of the Stake Presi-
dency spoke of the great work that was
done by the Prophet Joseph.
	The afternoon session of the conference
was the largest since the stake has been
organized.
	The first was a lecture, “Noblest Mis-
sion of Woman,” by Lizzie H. Durrant.
	Ottilia Holden sang a Solo, “Show me
the Way O Father.”
	Haden was reported by Prest. Martha
Little; Cache by President Mary A.
Swensen.
	Irma Wilson and Ella Rigby sang a
Duet, “Come Holy Spirit.”
	Counselor Susie M. Wilson of the Stake
Board spoke of having the spirit of our
work to make it a success.
	Counselor Sylvia M. Thompson spoke
of the importance of Relief Society work
and of the broad field that it covers.
	Emma Fairbanks gave a lecture, “He-
redity and prenatal influence.”
	Mary C. Lambert gave valuable in-
structions for the advancement of Relief
Society work; also spoke of spreading the
truths of the Gospel and of the nobleness
of the missionaries who are in the field.
	Patriarch John Leatham spoke of the
marriage covenant and the pattern the
young people should follow, the Patriarch
also gave a blessing to the Relief Society
workers.
	Elder Geo. S. Young of the Stake Pre-
sidency spoke of the frivolity that has
taken hold of some of the young people.

[Column 2]
	T. R. Wilson of our High Council spoke
on how the example set for children al-
ways remained with them.
	President D. C. Driggs read a part of a
letter from a member of the Church living
in Louisiana who is sick. A resolution
was adopted for the Relief Society to help
the afflicted family.
				LYDIA E. FULLMER,
							Secretary.
	P. S. In the evening the Stake Board
gave the Preliminary Program for the
Driggs Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A. The
time was then given to Sister Lambert
and members of the Board. The remarks
of Sister Lambert were very much ap-
preciated and we hope she will soon visit
us again.

			UINTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference (also
the Annual Conference) was held in the
New Stake Tabernacle at Vernal, August
26, 1907. President Sarah M. Colton pre-
siding.
	There were present with us Sisters
Emma S. Woodruff and Annie Wells
Cannon of the General Board from Salt
Lake City. There were also several
brethren of the Priesthood and a good re-
presentation of sisters. After the usual
opening exercises President Sarah M.
Colton welcomed the sisters, and spoke
of the completion of the tabernacle. She
reported her work and gave a short his-
tory of the Relief Society from the first
settlement of this valley until the present
time.
	General and local officers were sustained,
also a financial report of the Stake Board
was read.
	We had reports from the following pre-
sidents:
	Hannah Odekirk, Vernal Relief Society.
	Phoebe Hislop, Maeser Relief Society.
	Mary J. Hards, Glines Relief Society.
	Counselor Alice Billings, Jensen Relief
Society. 
	Counselor Adella Hunting, Naples Re-
lief Society.
	A Duet was given from Glines Relief
Society by Miss Effie Johnson and Bro.
Frank Thomas.
	Lecture by Annie K. Bartlett, entitled
“Duty of parents to children.”
	Emma Woodruff addressed the congre-
gation touched on childrens rights, and
the work of the Relief Society, advised
the sisters to gather grain in the time of
harvest, she read the remarks of Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to the Relief So-
ciety given at Salt Lake City Conference,
advised the sisters to do all the good pos-
sible, bore her testimony to the truthful-
ness of the gospel.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon spoke of
the teachers’ duties in the Relief Society
and the character one should have; to
avoid all back biting, advised the young
women to join the Relief Society, warned
mothers not to send their daughters to
the cities to work without proper care,
urged the storing of wheat, and the im-
portance of the privilege of equal suffr-
age to women.
	President Colton announced officers
meeting at the close of this meeting, ad-
journed until evening at 7:30 to meet at
Vernal Ward House.
	Singing and Benediction.
Evening Session. Opened by singing
and Prayer. First on the program a lec-


[Column 1]
ture on “Charity,” given by Mrs. Annie
Young.
	President Colton said we want to place
some of our work before you. Our work
is not only in one way but many, feeding
the hungry, clothing the naked, nursing
the sick, comforting the mourners, we also
inform ourselves along gospel lines, in-
vited the young sisters and brethren to
visit the Relief Society often.
	A Solo was rendered by Brother David
Mainwaring.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon was glad to
continue the meeting, said that we could
accomplish more by organized Society
work than by individual effort, that the
Prophet Joseph Smith foresaw the good
that could be done by organization when
he gave the first $5.00 gold piece into the
Relief Society and said “what I do here-
after for charity I will do through the
Relief Society.” We are proud of our
organization, again advised the mothers
not to send their girls from home to work,
without every precaution being used.
	Sister Zina Young Card said, we know
the Relief Society was organized for good,
spoke of the work of the Relief Society
in carpeting the tabernacle which had
just been dedicated to the Most High,
advised parents to help them children to
get the land and keep it as God intended
it for our inheritance for the people who
seek God and His righteousness and not
those who live for self alone.
	Stake Counselor Don B. Colton said
if he would become a member of woman’s
organization it would be the Relief So-
ciety, spoke of the spirit of the members,
and the care for the sick, spoke on chari-
ty and its influence, and the work of the
Relief Society.
	Patriarch Samuel R. Bennion said if
we have anything to give to the poor give
it to the Relief Society, for mothers
should be the best judge of the childrens
wants, said do not wear one sister out
because she is willing to work, but call in
the young sisters to take care of the sick.
	President Colton thanked all who had
taken part in this conference.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Conference adjourned for three months
after the Benediction.
			MARY B. HENRY,
				Assistant Secretary.
 
		BANNOCK STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Bannock Stake was held at Grace, Idaho,
June 18th, 1907. at 10 a. m., Stake Presi-
dent Eliza Hale presiding. After singing
and prayer by Patriarch Sterritt, roll call.
	Sister Margaret Rose reported Soda
Springs Relief Society. Sister Minnie
Hansen reported the Central Relief So-
ciety. Sister Esther Banks reported
Sterrit Relief Society. Sister Tolman re-
ported Chesterfield Relief Society. Sis-
ter Almira Meechum reported Trout Creek
Relief Society, all these in good working
order.
	Prest. Eliza Hale felt that her prayers
had been answered and the Relief Socie-
ty was a blessing to the sisters.
	Sister Emma Woodruff was pleased to
see so many of the brethren and sisters;
we should use our influence for good, the
teachers have a great mission to perform,
should encourage the young mothers to
come to our meetings, visit those not of
our faith and encourage them, keep in

[Column 2]
harmony with the Priesthood, she said
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith and Sis-
ter E. B. Wells sent their love to all the
sisters. We should have a system in our
work, spoke of the training of our chil-
dren. train them to pay their tithing; she
felt to bless the people out here in the
country.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt it a great
privilege to meet with the brethren and
sisters, what a great privilege we as
mothers have to bring sons and daughters
into the world, we should be cheerful in
our homes, The teachers should encour-
age the sisters in their homes, we should
endeavor to overcome our faults. Spoke
of the Mother’s work, we should ask the
Lord to help us in the bringing up of our
children. Spoke of the Nurse Class,
encouraged the sisters to take that course;
we should give our children practical
knowledge; spoke of the woman’s build-
ing; said they were going to join with
the brethren in building the house; en-
couraged the young mothers to come to
our meetings and not be lay members;
asked the blessing of the Lord on all.
	The afternoon session, at 2 p.m., Presi-
dent Eliza C. Hale presiding. Singing,
exercises as usual. Sister Eliza Thomas
reported Central Relief Society in good
condition. First Counselor Julia A. Pond:
“We as sisters have a great mission to
perform; she had been visiting the stake
with the other officers and enjoyed her
trip. The mothers have a great work in
our homes; the best way to get the Spirit
of the Lord is to attend our meetings, it
will help us to live our religion and teach
it to our children.”
	Second Counselor Louise Corbet said
we are thoroughly united as a board;
enjoyed her labors; asked the Lord to
bless all.
	President L. S. Pond felt by looking
over the congregation that the officers
would feel encouraged to see so many
present; spoke of encouraging love and
peace in the home; be congenial with our
companions: in the rearing of our sons and
daughters in the way they should go;
school ourselves to continue onward,
spoke of cleanliness in the home; the sis-
ters were engaged in a good and noble
work, felt to encourage them in helping
the poor and the sick, hoped the Lord
would help the new officers and all that
took part in this conference.
	Sister Emma Woodruff bore her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
She knew that the Prophet Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, she was person-
ally acquainted with him. We should
make our homes attractive and go with
our sons and daughters to their places of
amusement; bring them up to honor the
Priesthood; hoped we would all be true
and faithful; asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde urged the
sisters that gave reports to speak loud so
all could hear. We should be prompt
and have a system in our work; spoke on
punctuality, the officers should endeavor
to be at all the meetings. We should
beautify our homes; spoke of order in
our places of worship, and on the training
of children; show our children that we
love them, and encourage love in the
home; spoke of the noble work of moth-
ers; we should live the Word of Wisdomand teach it to our children, set a good
 example to those around us.

[Column 3]
	Brother Joseph T. Pond was pleased to
meet with us in this conference. we
should reduce to practice all the good
things we have heard today; we should
prepare ourselves for the life to come;
spoke of love and harmony in the home,
there is a crown of glory in store for the
mothers, we should be a light to the world
and not follow the fashions of the world.
May the Lord help us to keep His com-
mandments.
	Prest. Eliza C. Hale endorsed all that
had been said. Closed by singing “High
on the Mountain Top.” Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		CATHERINE SORENSON, Sec’y.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of
Alpine Stake was held in the Lehi Tab-
ernacle July 19th, 1907. President Re-
becca Standring presiding. Sisters Annie
T. Hyde and Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Priscilla P. Jennings of the General Board
were present.
	After the usual opening exercises Pre-
sident Standring greeted the sisters and
reported the Stake in good condition but
still room for improvement. Thought
some of the wards were in a sleepy con-
dition, but hoped they would soon wake
up to their duties.
	Reports were given from three wards,
all doing well; quite a number of young
mothers joining.
	Teachers give good reports and poor
are relieved and sick visited.
	Sister M. A. Webb of Lehi, Stake Mis-
sionary was pleased to report her labors
in Lehi. There are many good sisters in
the wards, many aged ones and some
scattered but they are trying to live their
religion. There are many influences to
combat and trials to meet, Tried to im-
press the mothers with the necessity of
training their children. Felt we were
blest above all women on the face of the
earth.
	Sister Rachel Hunter, Stake Missionary
of American Fork, was proud of her stand-
ing and position, desired to carry a good
influence and always enjoyed her labors.
The sisters as a rule are interested in the
work but many are tied at home with
large families.
	The address of President Bathsheba W.
Smith to the Relief Society was read by
Sister Farnsworth.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of Pre-
sident Smith, her love for the sisters and
her devotion to Temple work. Told the
teachers to go to the sisters houses and
tell them they are needed in the Relief
Society, and help and encourage them to
attend the meetings. Urge the young
women to attend the lectures which will
be a benefit to them. These pioneers
have been faithful for so many years, and
it will be found in the records when we
pass away. Get your children together
in the morning and pray with them, it
will pay you, for your children will be
benefited and you will be blest. We
should always have a cheerful counten-
ance and live up to all our requirements;
we must overcome evil with good, for we
are the chosen of the Lord and we are to
become saviors on mount Zion.
	Instrumental music by Sister Kirkham.
	President Stephen L. Chipman thought
that nowhere on the earth could we meet
a congregation of women with the same


goodness and purity of heart outside of
the Latter-day Saints. We know their
work and we appreciate their help and
understand their motives.
	Sister Jennings said: This is a broad
work. You must be charitable, make good
use of your time; this is our only chance
for doing our work, so let us be diligent
and do all we can. Let us train our
daughters to be pure, let us guard them
with all our might, let us bear our trials
with patience and prayer.  There is much
to be done and when we are in the line
of our duty we can do more than when
we take a day off.
	Sister Jennings said, we are the best
women on the earth and let us sustain
each other and sustain and uphold our
president.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session: President Standring
presiding. After the usual exercises, Pre-
sident M. A. Andersen reported Lehi 1st
ward. President Serena McKinney, Fair-
field branch. President Kate Allred Lehi
2nd ward.  All gave good reports, are
united and in harmony with the bishops.
	Sister Clarke read a sketch of the life
and labors of Sister Mary S. Hindley, 1st
president of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley.
Many people in the old world are longing
to come to this land, but when they get
here do we make them welcome? We
should call on them and assist them all
we can and show that we are not afraid
to associate with them as members of the
Church. Felt to testify to the sketch of
Sister Hindley’s life, knew that she had
been a mother to many besides her hus-
band’s children.
	President A. J. Evans testified that the
Relief Society is more diligent in their
labors than any other auxiliary organiza-
tion in the Church. Rejoiced in the gospel
and felt to sustain the efforts of the sist-
ers.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde. We are
working for the good of the people, let
us sustain every move which is for the
purity and advancement of the people.
Keep in touch with your children, join
them in their sports, go with them, we
want to throw every safeguard around
our children. Thought missionaries
should be sent to every district in every
ward. Prayed for a blessing on all.
	Sister Farnsworth knew the Alpine
Stake was a progressive stake in every
way. Spoke of the WOMANS EXPONENT,
our patriotism should go out in support
of this paper, and she urged the sisters to
take it. We have every thing to encourage
us, every thing in an educational way.
Our sons should be instructed in Relief
Society work for some may have to help
organize the Society in foreign lands.
	President James H. Clarke. Our Relief
Society is the strongest auxiliary organi-
zation in the Church. Our sisters know
that the Lord blesses their labors. We
are like children, we have to be constant-
ly reminded of our duties. Bore testi-
mony to the gospel, even the Savior could
not find favor with the people, the same
with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Singing, and Benediction by Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.
	To the memory of our dear sister
			JANE E. WHITE.
who departed this life August 16th, 1907, after a
few days illness. She was the daughter of John
a[-]d Jane Davi[-] and was born May 29th, 1863 at
Bountiful, Davis County, Utah. In connection
with her parents she removed to Arizona in 1878
and resided in St. John’s twenty four years, en-
during the hardships incident to the settl[-]ng of a
new country. L[-]ter, in 1905, she came to Basalt,
Idaho, where she has ever since resided.
	November 26th, she was married to John Elbert
White in the St. George Temple.
	She has been the mother of eight children. She
leaves a devoted husband and seven children (six
sons and one daughter), a father and mother two
brothers and three sisters to mourn her untimely
death
	Physically she was in a delicate condition, which
makes it all the more sad. All was done for her
relief that lov[-]ng hands could do, but to no avail,
God had called and she obeyed the summons.
	She was a faithful Latter-da[-] Sa[-]nt—she passed
peacefully away, in full assurance of a glorious
resurrection.
	The funeral services were held August 19th,
they were conducted by Bishop Wm. Dye. Many
beautiful florals were placed upon the casket by
her many dear friends expressive of their sorrow
and grief over her departure
	The speakers bore testimony to her integrity to
the gospel, and their remarks were consoling in
their nature.
	Sister Jane has been a member of the Relief
Society of this ward since her arrival. She was
chosen as 2nd counselor to President Nellie D.
D[-]e, April 25th, 1907. She magnified her calling,
although it was of a short duration, she won the
respect and love of her sisters.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Be it resolved that we the sisters of the Relief
Society of the Basalt Ward do most deeply mourn
the loss of so faithful a sister, and feel it is hard
to become re[-]onciled to her death, but are willing
to bow in humble submission to our Father’s will.
	Be it resolved that we extend our heart felt
sympathy to her husband, children parents,
brother and sisters, and ask God to bless them,
and make them feel that He is their friend.
	Be it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of the Relief Society, a copy
given to the bereaved family, of the deceased, and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				NELLIE D. DYE, President,
				MARY LYONS, 1st Counselor,
				MARY E. FREEMAN, Secretary.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB,
From October 31, 1901 to October 31, 1906,
	with a brief history of the first decade.
	Lydia D. Alder historian.

	The U. W. Press Club was organized
at the Woman’s Exponent office Octo-
ber 31, 1891, as a result of a number of
letters that had been sent out calling a
meeting. On that occasion a number of
women writers met together. Mrs. E.
B. Wells was chosen temporary chair-
man, and Mrs. Julia I. McDonald secre-
tary pro tem. A permanent organization
was effected, with Mrs. E. B. Wells pres-
ident, Susa Y. Gates first vice-president,
L. Lula Greene Richards second vice-
president, Martha A. Greenhalgh vice-
president at large, Annie Wells Cannon
cor. secretary and Josephine Spencer as-
sistant cor. secretary, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
recording secretary, Ruth M. Fox treas-
urer, Dr. Romania B. Pratt auditor. The
name Utah Woman’s Press Club was
adopted, and the chairman appointed a
committe of three to prepare a constitu-
tion and by-laws.
	Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt and
Lucy A. Clark of Farmington formed
the committee. It was suggested that
at the first meeting, to be held November
30, 1891, each member contribute an

[Column 2]
original article; or address, on such se-
lected subject as would further the object
for which the club was organized, or be
subject to a fine not to exceed twenty-
five cents.
	The charter members were E. B. Wells,
Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt, Ellis
R. Shipp, L. L. Greene Richards, Julia
I. McDonald and Lucy A. Clark, all of
whom are still with us, excepting Julia
I. McDonald. Following are a few
extracts from the resolutions of condol-
ence and respect passed at the time of
her demise, which are spread upon the
minutes of the Club.
CLIPPINGS FROM THE OBITUARY OF JULIA IVINS
			M’DONALD PACE.

A womanly woman, what more can we say?
	Has passed from the gloom to the beautiful
		day;
As such she wss greeted, and if women we be,
	As such we shall know her eternally.

Methinks I see the books opened,
And an angel the pages turns o’er,
Till he comes to her name when he pauses;
	“Sainted woman, thou’lt sorrow no more;

Thy life has been weighed ln the balance,
	Which tipped at the weight of pure gold,
By this thy name is recorded ‘most worthy,’
	Enter into the joys of thy Lord.”
				RUTH M. FOX.
				ROMANIA B PRATT.
				LUCY A. CLARK.
							Committee.
	Appointed at the meeting held January 31, 1900,

	The original intention of the Club was
carried out, those assigned on the pro-
gram preparing themselves with original
articles, poems or addresses.
	The history of the first decade of the
Club, written and read by its writer,
Lydia D. Alder, at its tenth annual meet-
ing, shows that the Club has had a bril-
liant career. The same history was later
published in full in the Woman’s Expo-
nent.
	Many of its first members are still forg-
ing ahead in the literary world. Some
are holding newspaper positions of note
today, both at home and abroad. Ada
M. Patterson, one of the latter, is on the
staff of the New York Journal and even
now keeps in touch with the Club. Jo-
sephine Spencer, a writer of great merit,
is on the staff of the Deseret News, while
others are regular writers for the home
magazines, as well as those of the east.
At the present time, Dr. R. B. Pratt, name
changed to Penrose, is abroad in the mis-
sionary field with her husband, Charles
W. Penrose, president of the European
mission. Letters from her are prized by
her friends. They show no decrease in
her interest of those so long associated
with her in the uplifting of women.
	Perhaps no club in the state or nation
has been represented like the U. W.
Press in the congresses of the world.
The great congress and fair held in Chi-
cago in 1893 had delegates from Utah,
both of the Club and other women’s or-
ganizations.
	At the Quinquennial Congress held in
London June, 1899, there were present
of the Club members, E. B. Wells, Susa
Y. Gates, Carrie S. Thomas, M. A. Caine,
and Lydia D. Alder, Seven other Utah
ladies were of the party, who were num-
bered among Queen Victoria’s guests
when she entertained the foreign ladies
of the congress at tea, July 7, 1899, at


[Column 1]
Windsor Castle, the closing function of
that ever-to-be-remembered congress.
	Before closing this review of the first
decade of the Club’s existence, perhaps
it would be interesting to mention some
of its annual gatherings, notable women
entertained, and of the work accom-
plished along the lines of journalism and
poetic writings. A book of the Club’s
minutes has been lost, but the annual
meeting of 1894 gives us the names of the
offiicers of that year; they were as fol-
lows: Honorary President, E. B. Wells;
President, E. R. Shipp, M. D.; Ruth M.
Fox, First Vice-president; Lydia D. Al-
der, Second Vice-president; Lizzie S.
Wilcox, Recording Secretary; Assistant,
Ella W. Hyde; Cor. Secretary, R. B.
Pratt; Assistant, Olea Shipp, Treasurer,
C. C. R. Wells; Auditor, Phebe C. Young;
Dr. E. B. Ferguson, Chairman Program
Committee.
	Anniversary day being also Halloween,
a special program was arranged. We
had pleasant and unique gatherings in
the past, but this year rather exceeded
aome of its predecessors.
	Either by costume or symbol, the mem-
bers represented as truthfully as might be
some of the well known authors or liter-
ary characters. As her name was called
she arose, and any present could guess
at the character represented.
	Literature, history, fable, all were there.
Some of the costumes worn were beauti-
ful, striking, or original as the wearer de-
sired.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp as Portia looked im-
posing in judicial robes; impressive her
speech “The quality of merey is not
strained” etc. Ruth M. Fox attired in
various gaudy colors represented sergeant
Buz fuz, in Dickens. Miss Gladys Wood-
mannsee was Hypatia in Roman cos-
tume, Ella W. Hyde looked graceful in-
fern leaves with fern fan as Fanny Fern.
Dr. R. B. Pratt dressed as a nun read from
Longfellow’s “Evangeline”, By a co-in-
cidence, Phebe C. Young and Lizzie S.
Wilcox, each representing Lucile, as a
nun, had even chosen the same selection
from that work to read. However, the
ladies changed their selection which set-
sled the matter. C. C. R. Wells, repre-
sented “The Woman in White” from
Wilkie Collin’s novel of that name, Mrs.
Minnie J. Snow as Mrs. Hemans sang
sweetly a song from that author’s work.
Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, represented by a
symbol, Mrs. Browning, and with great
dramatic ability recited “Mother and
Poet” from her works. Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, very befittingly represented Eliza
R. Snow, giving selections from that
author. Mrs. Melissa Wilson, with white
gown and flowing hair, represented Per-
dita from Shakespeare, reading “A Win-
ter’s Tale.” Mrs. E. J. Stevenson, with
a beautiful rose, represented “Rose in
Bloom.” Nellie C. Taylor, in her quaint
and simple Quaker garb, pleasingly remin-
ded us of Lucretia Mott. Miss Olea Shipp
appearing as the “Bohemian Girl” played
beautiful airs from that opera. Miss Ellis
Shipp recited Longfellow’s “Birds of

[Column 2]
Kenilworth,” in cream-colored gown, be-
decked with birds and feathers of brilliant
hue. Miss Pearl Russel as “Little Red
Riding Hood” rendered a charming little
solo from that opera. After the character
delineations, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read a
summary of the year’s work of the Club;
the progress made and improvement
sought.
	An ovation was tendered to Honorary
President E. B. Wells, and President Ellis
R. Shipp, by the Reapers and Press Club,
on Saturday evening March 16th, 1895,
on their return from the Council of Wo-
men, lately convened in Washington.
They met many people of “classical edu-
cation and opportunities for the highest
culture in the land. Our representatives
attended the banquet given on the 75ths
anniversary of the birth of Susan B. An-
thony and spoke of the cordiality extended
to the Utah women. Mrs. Wells also spoke
of her visit to the beautiful home of Mrs
May Wright Sewall. Many memories were
revived, some pleasant, some disappoint-
ing, especially that of dear Aunt Zina,
who had failed to meet with them in the
National Council.
	The Club Minutes of April 3, 1895, make
mention, that the city that day was full
of excitement on the suffrage question
and on motion of Mrs. Wells, the meeting
was resolved into a meeting to discuss
Woman Suffrage, the question then
under discussion at the Constitutional Con-
vention. The speakers were Mrs. E. B.
Wells, C. C. R. Wells, Lizzie Wilcox,
Mrs. McLachlin and Richard R. Shipp,
H. A. Badger, Mary A. Clark, E. J. Ste-
venson, R. M. Fox, Helena Madsen of
Gunnison, Annie T. Hyde, Lydia D.
Alder, Mrs. Kister, Ella W. Hyde, Misses
Claire Ferguson, Laura Hyde, Florence
Alder, Ellis Shipp, and Miss May of Nephi
Dr. Ferguson, and M. A. Caine. All
pledging themselves to work for the Wo-
man Suffrage plank in the State Con-
stitution.
	The Club anniversary, of 1897, held at
the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Snipp, when
the following was the personel of its of-
ficers.
	Honorary President E. B. Wells, Past
Presidents E. R. Shipp and Ruth M. Fox.
President elected Dr. Romania B. Pratt
Rebecca H. Doolan and Helen Vilate
Kimball; Vice President at Large, Isabel
Cameron Brown, Secretary Mary A. J.
Lambert, Amiee Schiller, Assistant Secre-
tary Lydia D. Alder Cor. Secretary, Hattie
B. Harker Treasurer.
	No more unique and perhaps even
beautiful gathering was ever held in this
most hospitable home, than the one of
this year. The present was forgotten in
the past, and those of other years thronged
this favorite spot. I quote from the mi-
nutes.
	The ladies who were most conspicuous,
were first Lydia D. Alder as the sweet
poet Lydia H. Sigourney in lace mantilla
and appropriate costume throughout.
None guessed her character, even when
she read “Napoleon’s Epitaph” from that

[Column 3]
gifted author. On request of the ladies,
Mrs. Alder walked through each room
that all might see her, before she reveal-
ed, the character she represented. Lucy
A. Clark as Hypatia, in flowing raiment,
artistically draped discussed philosophy
like an ancient sage. Dr. Orielle Curtis
as Portia, with cap and gown looked like
a Doctor of Laws, in very deed, when
quoting “The quality of mercy is not
strained,” she appeared like a real Greek
heroine. Rebecca H. Doolan, with soft
white hair, and fine lace cap read from
the poems of the gifted Eliza R. Snow.
Ruth M. Fox was simply charming in her
Quaker bonnet, and severely plain garb
carrying in her hand the scroll of the Dec-
laration of Independence and giving the
pathetic, yet eloquent description of the
scene when the brave little woman made
herself forever famous on that memorable
night of the fire at the capitol. Ella .W
Hyde, in Puritan dress read one of Louise
M. Alcott’s sunshiny poems in a delight-
fully characteristic way. Edith R. Lovsey
read Longfellow’s poem to the flowers, in
a most charming style, while bedecked
becomingly in fresh and beautiful flowers.
She made a pleasant picture to the eye
and her voice is full of sweetness. Helen
Vilate Kimball as Lady Elizabeth Mon-
tague, made quite an imposing appear-
ance, richly dressed, her tall stately figure
showed to good advantage as a woman
of rank and title. No one was able to
guess her identity, not even when she
read quotations, from this celebrated
author’s “Letters from the Dead.” Of
this lady who was born 1720 and died in
1800 the poet Cowper said:
	The birds put off their every hue
	To dress a room for Montague.
	She was even more popular than her
illustrious kinswoman, Lady Mary Wort-
ly Montague, whom it is said suffered by
the comparison of her letters with those
of Lady Elizabeth.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, in heavy, rust-
ling silk, her beautiful hair in natural
curls so exactly like the portrait of Felicia
Dorothea Hemans as we see her in books
with fan and reticule and scroll, making
a complete study of the character, read
one of the sweetest poems written by 
this favorite author. Miss Pearl Russell
as Lady Claire, in simple gown with a
rose in her hair, repeated a verse from
that charming poem of Tennyson’s, and
looked as timid and as sweet as the Lady
Claire herself possibly could had she
stepped out from the poem. Aimee
Schiller, handsomely dressed, represented
the “Scarlet Letter,” in a style new and
unique, and her reading was excellent, as
well as her chosen selection.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, with a beautiful
dress of black silk entraine, and flowing
sleeves of glistening white that might
have been wings of angels, so airy and
fluttering they were, carrying in each
hand a luxuriant bunch of chrysanthe-
mums, and accompanied by her two
daughters, Olea and Ellis, on either side
as maids of honor, made a splendid pic-
ture of the Queen of Sheba, and as she
gave the quotation held up first the bou-
quet of real flowers, and then the arti-
ficial, asking which was the true and
which the false, and adding the half had
not been told, overcome as it were with
the splendor and magnificence of Solo-
mon’s Court.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

