Vol. 36		SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, DECEMBER, 1907. [CHRISTMAS-NUMBER.]			No. 5


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
A Birthday Greeting...............Lydia D. Alder	33
Obedience..........Sister Louisa Norris Decker	33
An Artistic Booklet.........................................	35
Notes and News.............................................34 & 35
Relief Society Reports:—Millard Stake.........	34
	Malad Stake............................................	35
	Sevier Stake............................................	38
“Why a Woman Should Desire to be a Mor-
	mon”.......................................................	39
Editorial:—The Prophet Joseph’s Birthday....	36
	In Memoriam..........................................	36
	Holly and Easter Lilies...........................	37
	Christmas Again.....................................	38
Poetry:—Respectfully Inscribed to our Gifted
	Poet, Henry W. Naisbitt....Nelly Becroft	33
	Birthday Greetings to Elder Henry W.
	Naisbitt...........................Lydia D. Alder	33
	His Message..................Louise Coulson	34
	Old Friends and Comrades.....................
	..................................Emmeline B.Wells	35
	A Likeness.................Alice Peet Bishop	35


RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO OUR
GIFTED POET, HENRY W. NAISBITT.

O sightless Poet! say not yet farewell!
But in thy nearness to the “Golden shore,”
Catching faint strains of “Life for Evermore,”
Half hearing “Mother’s voice” the “Anthem”
	swell,
Of visions like to these, let pen still tell;
Nor lay it yet aside, but as ye soar
Near the “Beyond,” thine inspirations pour
On souls aweary, and where sorrows dwell.
Thy gifted pen can soothe life’s deepest pain,
Can ease its cross, make clear its darkened way;
Then signal us again and yet again,
’Till “Unlatched door” is reached, and Endless
	day
On quickened vision bursts; there shalt thou reign
A king, a priest, a God for aye and aye.
		For the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
					NELLIE BECROFT.


BIRTHDAY GREETINGS
			TO
	ELDER H. W. NAISBITT.

A thought of love—a fragrant flower—
	As offering now we bring
So fair it bloomed in Eden’s bower,
	The choicest of the spring,
This birthday thought we bring to thee,
	Hath flowers that ne’er will fade;
Twined with it all the years to be
	The record thus hast made.

Thyself—thy foremost gift hath been
	Laid on the altar for His sake,
So life eternal thus doth win,
	When He thy gift shall take.
And generations yet to be,
	Far down the stream of Time,
Shall loving sing and speak of thee,
	Thy name for e’er will shine.

Thy pathway is not dark e’en though
	Denied to thee the glad sun’s rays;
For He is near who loved us so,
	And brightens all our days.
He leadeth thee, whose ways are right—
	Into the endless day,
He bringeth thee from out the night, 
	To dwell with Him alway.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
	A BIRTHDAY GREETING.
	On Thursday evening, November 7,
1907, a few old-time friends and fellow-
missionaries on the Temple block assem-
bled at the home of one who had spent
many years of his life in the mission field,
exhorting, writing and expounding the
faith he embraced as a boy in another
land—Henry W. Naisbitt.
	The patriarch, with flowing white hair
and sightless eyes. surrounded by his 
family and friends, reminded us of the
Ancient of Days, whom we are told gath-
ered his posterity around him, giving
them of his wisdom and knowledge, and
prophesying of the future, before he de-
parted to another life.
	A hymn, “God moves in a mysterious
way,” was sung and commented upon.
	By request, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read
“The Birthday Floral Cross” and “There
Shall be Light at Eventide, from Elder
Naisbitt’s book of poems, Rhymelets in
Many Moods:

How blessed that man, whose well filled years
	Of life's experience, tested, tried,
Enjoys in sunshine or in tears.
	Sweet “Light at Even-tide,”
	*	*	*	*	*	*
No conqueror ’mid the world’s applause,
	No monarch filled with regal pride,
So calmly waits as he who knows
	There’s “Light at Even-tide.”

True to his God, himself, the world,
	How nobly, yet with peaceful pride,
He points to Truth’s white flag unfurled
	’Mid “Light at Even-tide.”

When failing pulse foretells that life
	Is ebbing on death’s river side,
He feels around, with pleasure rife,
	Glad “Light at Even-tide.”

Ushered by angel bands, who dwell
	Where heaven undimmed, its gates set wide,
He needs no more that shade which fell—
	Earth’s “Light at Even-tide.”

	In behalf of the assembled friends and 
some who could not be present, Brother
Goddard presented the guest of honor
with a warm house coat, expressing the
desire that it should add to his comfort
and be a reminder of our friendship and
solicitude for his welfare. In closing, 
Brother Goddard spoke impressively of
Elder Naisbitt’s splendid record, ever
valiant for the truth, and of his gift—the
wisdom of a sage; adding his blessing
with that of thousands whom Brother
Naisbitt has blessed, and among whom
he has labored.
	Rising to his feet, weak and trembling, 
his voice often choked with a tide of emo-
tion, Brother Naisbitt responded with an
eloquence unspoken, to all that had been
done and said. At times he was reminis-
cent, speaking of days long gone, and
prophesying of the future of those who
loved and served the Lord,
	Abiding faith in the gospel was shown
when he spoke of his youngest son, Per-
cy, who had recently been crushed in an 
elevator, and whose recovery thus far is
a miracle, through faith in the Almighty.

[Column 2]
He further expressed the desire that Per-
cy should live, and carry the gospel tid-
ings to the nations afar. A happy time
of talking and blessing followed, all pres-
ent wishing Elder Naisbitt many more
birthdays—as many as be desired; and
then; all his heart craved in the Great
Beyond.
	After dainty refreshments were served,
the guests sang with spirit Brother Nais-
bitt’s own inspiration, “How swift the
months have passed away,” the author
recalling when it was first sung in the
“Old Bowery.”

	The happiest time must have an end,
	The saddest pass away.

	So we leave him in his daughter’s
peaceful home, with touch of hands, who
knows us but “by voice and memory, not by
sight,” taking with us here into the star-
ry night more than we had bestowed,
and the counsciousness that in doing good
ye are doubly blessed, and in blessing
blessings return.
						L. D. A.


OBEDIENCE.
(Part of a lecture given by Sister Louisa
	Norris Decker in the 22nd ward Relief
	Society.)

	Obedience brings good order, disobedi-
ence confusion. The elements were obe-
dient to God when He said, “Let there
be light.” The earth was created and all
therein in obedience to His command.
As all things have their opposite, right
and wrong, joy and sorrow, light and
darkness, obedience and disobedience be-
ing opposite, results of these are in ap-
proval or condemnation. We are told
that “obedience is better than sacrifice,”
and there has been many trying sacrifices
made by our people in obedience to the
Gospel. My sisters could tell many tales
of hardship, of sorrow, sickness, and death
of loved ones, the parting from homes,
kindred and native land, all so dear to
their hearts; yet for the truth and the
principle of gathering to Zion, where the
Saints can be united and receive many
blessings, they have gladly  made the
sacrifice to listen to the teachings of our
inspired leaders, and obey their counsel
(for it is a privilege), even coming to our
meetings and associating with our dear,
kind sisters, sustaining our president, her
counselors, and as we know them better
we love them more, We realize their
cares and responsibilities in being obedi-
ent to their calling, and we sustain them
by our faith and our presence.
	In history, very little is said of women.
History treats on the wonderful achieve-
ments of great men; of the nobility of
their nature, the good they have done
for the welfare of humanity, their good
deeds have been applauded, they have in
the good they have wrought obeyed the
instincts of a noble nature, inspired in
many instances; but these great, far-


[Column 1]
famed men received their first impres-
sions from their mothers. Through obe-
dience to the commandment given to mul-
tiply and replenish the earth, she carried
that man-child under her heart until the lit-
tle body was matured, and came forth to
fill his place in life’s great battle, that the
world should be better that he was born.
Ask whence came our great mathema-
ticians? Very few who praise this won-
derful man of figures ever think of the
patient, obedient, plodding mother, at-
tending to her household duties, studying
out the intricate pattern of a bedspread
she was weaving perhaps, while on her
bed in the dark hours of night, thinking
how to weave each thread, not to mar
the beautiful pattern; but these thoughts
and impressions made by the mother often
develop in the child characteristics that
tend to show what the prenatal influ-
ences and environment have been, as
many mothers have testified; though
great men, students of physiology and
doctors, may smile at this crude reasoning
of the mothers in this regard.
	It has been truly said; “the hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world,” yet
woman yields willing obedience and ac-
knowledges man as the head of the
home. Why is this? The best answer
to my mind is, God willed it so. The
children obey their parents because it is
right they should, to promote and main-
tain good order in the home, each one
attending to the duties assigned her or
him according to the child’s age and abil-
ity. We all love the obedient ehild; wil-
ling obedience comes through love and
kindness more often than by means of
harsh measures or strong language. In
my experience I have seen many children
with grieved hearts, eyes filled with tears,
lips quivering, because of cruel words
spoken in anger thoughtlessly. And how
many mother’s hearts have ached waiting
for the kind words that were never spok-
en, only women can answer. And again:
cruel words spoken or blows inflicted by
angry fathers, have driven many a child
from the protection of the home, from
the patient love of the mother or sister,
just at a time when the rebellious, out-
raged, resentful spirit needed their influ-
ence most, driven out to seek that which
was denied them at home, where they
had a right to expect love and tender-
ness. Be careful, young mothers, the
time will come when we will be called to
render an account of these things.
	Women should not shrink from the
responsibities of motherhood because of
trials. Why desire to settle down to the
narrow, selfish life, disregarding nature’s
laws and the commandmentts of God?
Children may bring you the greatest joy
of your life; but if not properly controled
they may bring you the greatest sorrow;
for who can cause us greater grief than
one of our own dear ones?—strong-willed,
disobedient, deaf to the eounsel of a lov-
ing mother, that has done the best she
knew. Sad indeed are these conditions,
but the Lord will help and many times
through prayer, great changes have taken
place in our families, for those who put
their trust in Him, for He doeth all things
well, and makes no mistakes. Mothers,
take on new courage, face the difficulties of
life bravely, and your reward will be
sure. If we do not meet good and evil,
how can we test our strength? How can
we overcome obstacles if there are no

[Column 2]
wrongs to meet, our brains would sleep,
our muscles grow weak; our troubles are
our blessings, as our enemies are our best
friends—they hold our shortcomings up
to view in such a distorted light that we
gladly turn from all our weaknesses and
grow better and wiser.
	Our enemies in the past have persecut-
ed and driven the Saints from their homes
and civilization; yet we have grown
stronger and better off in all respects;
yet they have followed us hither, and are
not content to leave us to ourselves.
There are many instances of courage and
heroism that might be given of those who
have borne the burden and heat of the
day, and who through obedience have
made sacrifices that were hard to endure,
yet have borne all patiently in faith and
humility.  History will record many of
the brave deeds of the Saints; but all can-
not be told; the angels who are watching
are “silent notes taking,” and the faith-
ful and true and tried will triumph, and
no power can hinder those who stand for
truth and righteousness from obtaining
the reward of obedience to the Gospel.
	“Obedience is the Christian’s crown.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		MILLARD STAKE.

	Relief Society Conference of Millard
Stake was held at Deseret, November 1,
1907, President Isabella E. Robison pre-
siding. There were present besides a
good representation of Society workers,
Sisters Carrie S. Thomas and Rebecca
Nibley of the General Board, Apostle
Francis M. Lyman, President A. A. Hinck-
ley and counselors of the stake presiden-
cy, and also a number of bishops.
	After the opening exercises, Prest. I. E.
Robison made a few opening remarks.
She was much pleased to have an Apostle
in attendance, also the sisters from the
General Board. Said the Deseret Relief
Society hall, which had just been com-
pleted, would be dedicated during this
meeting.
	The following presidents: Amelia A.
Cahoon of Deseret, Melissa Olsen of Fill
more, Naomi Theobald of Hinckley, Ma-
thilda Overson of Leamington—each re-
ported her respective society in good con-
dition; they were caring for sick and poor,
storing grain, and working for the ad-
vancement of the good cause.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas was pleased to
see the brethren present, as it gave
strength when speaking. It is a marvel
how the sisters accomplish so much in
building halls and granaries, caring for the
sick and needy, and many other things.
The Nurse Class is accomplishing much
good, and also the mother’s work. It
is better to study the child than the
book. “Our religion is a practical, every
day religion, and if we cannot study all
the books, may God help us to care for
the babies intelligently.”
	Sister Nibley spoke of her early expe-
rience in the work; advised the young
mothers to teach their children to pray,
also to pay tithing, and keep the Word of
Wisdom,that they may gain the blessings
of the Lord; for there is nothing worth
living for outside of the gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	The general and stake officers of the
Relief Society were then snstained unani-
mously.

[Column 2]
	Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke at length
on the duties of sisters in the Relief So-
ciety, also on tithing, prayer, the Word of
Wisdom, and the necessity of mothers
setting good examples before their chil-
dren; related some of his experiences in
early life, and said every sister in the
Church should belong to the Relief Soci-
ety and attend as much as possible.
	After singing “O, say what is truth,”
etc., the dedicatory prayer and benedic-
tion were pronounced by Apostle Lyman.
	Conference continued in an  evening
session, President Isabella E. Robison pre-
siding. Singing and prayer.
	Sisters Ada Wood of Holden, Lovell of
Oak City, Emily Thompson of Scipio,
and Elmira Styler of Oasis, each reported
her Society in good condition, working
in the cause, helping the needy and car-
ing for the sick.
	Prest. I. E. Robison said the Relief
Society of Millard stake had paid annual
dues; each Society should hold monthly
board meetings; gave some instructions
about making reports and keeping correct
records.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley said the presi-
dent’s reports today had been very grati-
fying to her; it showed that the sisters
were alive to their calling; thought there
had been much good accomplished by send-
ing missionaries from the General Board;
gave some of her experience in the mis-
sionary work; spoke of the Nurse Class as
a good thing for our girls, as it gave them
great opportunities for helping others.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas referred to
the History being issued by the Relief
Society, and explained why it had not
been published. We have had good in-
structions, are we going to profit by it?
If we do not, inspiration is no good to us.
Endorsed the remarks of Apostle Lyman
this afternoon, especially on the Word of
Wisdom—the Lord knows what is good
for his children.
	Prest. Robison made a few closing re-
marks; benediction by Amelia A. Cahoon.
		MARINDA BENNETT, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Laura E. Richards addressed the
Massachusetts Library Club at its meet-
ing in Melrose recently, on the best read-
ing for children. She recommended a
liberal diet of poetry, from Chaucer to
Kipling travels, historical works, Shakes-
pere, the Bible, Pilgrim’s Progress, and
plenty of fairy tales like those of Grimm
and Hans Andersen, “For my part,”
said Mrs. Richards, “I should not want to
have anything to do with a child nor a
grown-up who does not like fairy tales.”
She held that books describing noble
deeds were especially good for children,
and urged librarians to burn up books
that give gruesome and unnatural views
of life.


HIS MESSAGE.
Tossing in rapture each crest on the wave,
	Lashing the shore with its spray;
Ever the deep, deep song of the sea,
	Sad, solemn and sweet alway.
Bursting in song, thrilling each heart,
	Filling green woodland and glen;
Comes His glad message of love,
	“Peace on earth, good will to men:”
					LOUISE COULSON.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OLD FRIENDS AND COMRADES.
Written for Miss Kate Wells’ Valentine party for
		her Aunties, February 14, 1907.
We have been friends together thro’ all the chang-
	ing years
Of travel and of trials, with hardships, doubts, and
	fears,
Since first we met each other in those eventful
	days,
In fair “Nauvoo, the Beautiful,” or on the desert
	ways.
There’s something glorious in life, whatever may
	befall,
And we have been most loyal to the Gospel, thro’
	it all,
Because the faith we cherish our staff and stay has
	been,
And we trust that each of us immortal life may
	win.
But there are faces that we miss of those we lov’d
	so well,
So many that their names, too numerous are to
	tell;
They were our dear companions, our comrades,
	heart and hand,
In festive scenes and gatherings, we were a happy
	band.
With them we danc’d and feasted, when we were
	young and bright;
And we comforted each other, when sorrow left its
	blight;
In trouble, or in sadness, or in burdens hard to
	bear
We each were ever willing, to take another’s
	share.
We recall each absent one, and think them o’er
	and o’er;
Their voices seem to greet us from off that distant
	shore,
The river flows between us, but we see the shining
	sand,
And we know beyond that river, there lies the
	happy land.
We remember Mother Whitney, whose presence
	was so dear,
She sung the songs of Zion in a language sweet
	and clear—
That the angels sung in Eden, when the earth
	was new and fair,
Before the great transgression, that brought death,
	and sin and care.
And beloved Aunt Eliza a Priestess of the time;
Whose words like precious jewels were full of truth
	sublime;
Aunt Zina with a healing balm for ev’ry wounded
	heart,
Vilate with soul magnanimous rich blessings to
	impart.
And Sarah M. Louisa, Wells, and dear Aunt Mar-
	garet,
And Sister Howard’s gladsome face we never can
	forget;
And Mary Isabella whose wisdom was our pride,
And dear Elmina Taylor, and many more beside.
Beloved friends who’ve gone to join the great im-
	mortal throng;
Who stand before the pearly gates, and sing the
	wondrous song
Of the redeemed and glorified. who worship at the
		feet,
Of Him who bore the cross for all, yea finished
	and complete.
And we have made celestial laws our covenant
	and choice,
And when we pass beyond the vail, we trust we
	may rejoice
With those whose names we love to hear, and
	who’ve gone on before;
And may our bark sail smooth to land when we
	are wafter o’er.	
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


Queen Wilhelmina of Holland knows
how to milk a cow and to make butter.
She has a model dairy, of which she is
very fond.


A LIKENESS.
Foxes have homes and each bird has a nest,
But the Son of God nowhere found safe place to
	rest,
From prison and judgment, to slaughter, was led,
And bravely met death, as old prophets had said.

But His cruel death did not satisfy hate,
And Saint Stephen and James met like merciless
	fate,
And Apostles of Jesus from Jerusalem fled,
And o’er all the wide earth, thus Christ’s gospel
	was spread.

So this Latter-day Prophet found no where to rest,
Was from place to place driven on mother earth’s
	breast,
From prison, without trial, to slaughter was led,
And bravely met death, as old prophets had said.

And the innocent blood shed that day for his cause
Drew his people together by the natural laws
Of enduring sympathy, brothers indeed
In their common sufferings, in their common need.

But their dead leader’s mantle fell on brave shoul-
	ders strong,
And westward he led them, singing ever this
	song
“O God of our fathers! Give to us oh give,
A good land of promise, where in peace we may
	live!”

So they prayed, toiled and marched, ’till as on,
	on, they pressed,
Reached they Galilee, Jordan and the Dead sea’s
	cold breast.
There they builded a temple, through forty long
	years,
And in blessings of plenty, forgot their past tears.

And thus persecution spread their faith in the west
And from there to all lands has the Church sent
	its best,
As the death of Jerusalem’s martyr gave birth
To the zeal of Christ’s teachers all over the earth.

Though temptation invite and assail day by day
From the good “Words of Wisdom” may they
	never more stray.
The whole world is watching to see how they live,
And a goodly example to the world they may give.

If this faith is of God, it will stand to the last,
If brewed in men’s brains, ’twould fall sure and
	fall fast,
By their fruits! By their fruits, shall their works
	all be known!
Let them keep up the record their past years have
	shown.
				ALICE PEET BISHOP.
			(An unprejudiced Gentile student of
				Mormon history.)
673 Seventh st., City.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper has completed the
third volume of the “Life and Works of
Susan B. Anthony.” She expects that
it will be out by February, Miss Anthony’s
birth month.
	Delegate Taylor of Kalamazoo has in-
troduced in the Michigan Constitutonal
Convention a proposal to allow women
taxpayers to vote on all measures which
include the expenditure of the public
funds.
	In Holland, a royal decree emanating
from Minister Kraus has abolished the
rule promulgated three years ago which
forbade women employed in the postal
and telegraph offices to marry.
	Mrs. Kenward, who has just celebrated
her 88th birthday, has been postmistress
for 61 years at the quaint old postoffice
at Wivelsfield, near Hayward’s Heath,
England. In addition to the work of the
office Mrs. Kenward attends to her own
household duties, and is a great reader of
the newspapers.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or others who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		MALAD STAKE.
	The Malad Stake Relief Society Con-
ference was held at Riverside, Box Elder
county. Utah, Thursday, October 31, 1907,
President Julia A. Richards presiding.
Sister Emily S. Richards of the General
Board was present, also the Malad stake
presidency, President M. H. Welling,
Counselors Wm. Gibbs and Moroni Ward,
and all the sisters of the stake board of
Malad, several bishops, and representatives
from all the wards.
	After the opening exercises, five wards
were represented, and reported in each
instance as being in good working order,
fully organized and trying to follow out
the instructions given.
	Sister Emily S. Richards spoke earnest-
ly on the storing of grain, and said that
Sisters Smith and Wells each sent love
and greeting to the sisters of the Malad
stake. She advised the young ladies to
join the Relief Society and assist in mak-
ing the mother’s work a success. Gave
instructions concerning the laying out
and dressing of the dead. Spoke on the
necessity of guarding our tongues against
speaking evil of one another. Prest. M.
H. Welling followed with remarks along
the same lines.
	After singing and benediction, confer-
ence adjourned u ntil 2 p.
	Conference reassembled at 2 o’clock p.
m. Opening exercises as usual. Reports
from three wards were given, each in
good working order and interested in the
work.
	Prest. Julia A. Richards reported the
stake throughout as the officers found it
in traveling and holding meetings.
	The speakers were Sister Emily S.
Richards, Prest. M. H. Welling, Counsel-
or W. Gibbs and Bishop M. J. Richards,
the remarks being along the same line
as during the morning, that of speaking
evil of each other being foremost.
	Sister Emily S. Richards explained the
relationship existing between the Nation-
al Council of Women and the Relief So-
ciety as an organization.
	Treas. Ella S. Capener recited a poem
entitled “Woman,” selected from the
EXPONENT.
	The Spirit of the Lord was in our midst
and each one present felt that they had
indeed had a spiritual feast.
	Meeting closed by singing “Glory to
God on high.” Benediction by Sister
Elizabeth A. Jones.
				JOSIE K. HALES,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	-	DECEMBER, 1907


[Column 1]
THE PROPHET JOSEPH’S BIRTHDAY.

Plucked fresh from an immortal paradise,
	Transplanted in a new and uncongenial clime,
To fulfill laws which nature’s works comprise;
	A purpose to achieve, coincident with time.

	The life of the Prophet Joseph from his
birth in the vale of the Green Mountains
to his tragic martyrdom is like a sublime
and heroic poem, and some day in the
future, one or more of our poets, young
or old, will give it with all the wondrous,
graceful and majestic unfolding from the
hearth where he was born, to the prison
from where his life was yielded up as a
sacrifice for his people, along with his
noble brother Hyrum, who was nearest
to him of all his kindred in life and in
death. The bond between these brothers
was of the most sacred character, uniting
these two great-hearted, magnanimous
men there must have been an invisible
altar of trust and consecration.
	It is most fitting that the Latter-day
Saints should celebrate the birth of the
greatest prophet since the days of the
Savior, and coming so nearly together
seems a strange coincidence. The beau-
tiful story of the birth of Joseph Smith is
most poetical, and it is gratifying to all
who love and revere his memory to know
that his birthplace has been so harmoni-
ously brought into touch with the origi-
nal arrangement of the old home. It
will undoubtedly be in the future, an ob-
ject lesson of great significance to the
people of our faith, and also to the unbe-
lieving and the inquiring stranger and
tourist. This simple fact of renovating
and beautifying the old home may be
more helpful than an epic poem, but both
are not too much to carry the message of
life and salvation to the world at large,
the. message delivered to Joseph Smith
when only a lad in his early boyhood.
	We have reason to be grateful for all
that has been done to perpetuate his
name, his great work and to show honor
to those who were true and loyal to him.
and to the Master’s work he came to do.
A  marvelous work and a wonder in the
midst of the earth in this dispensation of
the fulness of times. Every effort will be
made to make the birthplace of the
prophet attractive and to preserve at the
same time all the old landmarks.
	In reviewing the writings of men associ-
ated with the Prophet Joseph and in con-
versing with the few staunch men of his
time now living, it is difficult to select from

[Column 2]
among all one reads, or is told, incidents
that will appeal to those who only know
through history so little of his actual
heroic and prophetic character, and in-
deed it is difficult for those who knew
him personally, to talk of him in such
a way as to give reality to his nobility of
person and the grandeur of his charac-
teristics and aspirations.
	It is not possible to put on paper the
beauty of some special phases and say-
ings of the Prophet Joseph to attempt it is
to make one feel the insignificance of the
written account compared to the sub-
limity of the actual scenes as portrayed in
life.
	It has been said frequently of late that
the Prophet predicted the gathering of
this people to the Rocky Mountains.
Elder Anson Call tells most graphically
one of these prophetic visions.
	At a meeting of Freemasons in the
town of Montrose, Iowa, on the west side
of the Missirsippi, Joseph Smith while
conversing with his brother uttered the
remarkable prophecy that the Saints
would be driven to the Rocky Mountains.
Elder Anson Call was present and gives a
detailed account.
	“On the 14th of July, 1843, the Prophet
Joseph with quite a number of his breth-
ren crossed the Mississippi river to the
town of Montrose, to be present at the in-
stallment of the Masonic Lodge of the
‘Rising Sun.’ A block school house had
been prepared for the occasion with a
shade in front under which was a barrel
of ice water. Judge George Adams was
the highest Masonic authority in the State
of Illinois and had been sent there to or-
ganize this lodge. The Judge, Hyrum
Smith and J. C. Bennett being high Ma-
sons went into the house to perform some
ceremonies which the others were not
entitled to witness, they, including Joseph
Smith, remained under the bowery,
Joseph as he was tasting the cold water,
warned the brethren not to be too free
with it.
	“With a tumbler still in his hand he
prophesied that the Saints would yet go
to the Rocky Mountains. Brother Call
says, “I had before seen him in vision,
and now saw while he was talking, his
countenance change to white not the
deadly white of a bloodless face, but a
living, brilliant white. He seemed ab-
sorbed in gazing at something at a great
distance,” and said “I am gazing upon
the valleys of the mountains.” This
Brother Call says was followed by a vivid
description of the scenery of these moun-
tains as I have since become acquainted
with it.
	“Pointing to Shadrack Roundy and
others he said: “There are seme men
here, who shall do a great work in that
land.” Pointing to me he said, “There
is Anson, he shall go and shall assist in
building cities from one end of the coun-
try to the other; and you, rather extend-
ing the idea to all those he had spoken
of shall perform as great a work as has
been done by man, so that the nations of
the earth shall be astonished, and many
of them will be gathered in that land and
assist in building cities and temples, and
Israel shall be made to rejoice.”
	The writer says, “It is impossible to
represent in words this scene, which is
still vivid in my mind of the grandeur of
Joseph’s appearance, the beautiful de-
scriptions of this land, and his wonderful

[Column 3]
pathetic utterances, as they emanated
from the glorious inspiration which over-
shadowed him.” There was a force and
power in his exclamations of which the
following is but a faint echo:
	“Oh the beauties of these snow-capped
mountains! the, soul refreshing streams
that are running down through these
mountain gorges! Then gazing in another
direction as if there was a change of
locality: “Oh the scenes that this people,
will pass through! The dead that will lie
between here and there.” Then turning
as if the scene changed again, “Oh the
apostacy that will take place before my
brethren reach that land!”
	Elder Call continues: “Although I felt
that Joseph was wrapt in vision, and that
his voice was the voice of God, little did
realize the vast significance of those pro-
phetic declarations compared with what
do now, with the experience of forty-
five years, that has intervened since they
were uttered. As he concluded the door
of the house opened and we entered the
building to transact the business for which
we had gathered.”
	The writer herself recalls, Mother Whit-
ney’s vivid picture of the appearance and
manner, and beauty of the countenance
of the Prophet Joseph when dictating to
his scribe in an upper chamber of her
house in Kirtland. But the things that
are written and the things that are told
fall far short of the reality. It is
good that the Spirit of God has made
manifest to many who have not seep the
Prophet the truth of his divine mission
here upon the earth.


IN MEMORIAM.
	PRISCILLA SMITH TAYLOR.
Come to the bridal chamber, Death!
Come to “the mother when she feels
For the first time, her first-born’s breath,”
	It seems only yesterday, as it were,
that we published the marriage of the
young woman whose demise we now
feel it a duty to record. Her married
life was so brief, yet so sweet, one
cannot but feel that in such a short space
of time, one may experience the heights
and depths of human joy and sorrow.
	Sister Priscilla Smith Taylor was a
happy bride on October 25th of last year
(1906), and on November 3rd of this
present year (1907) she passed away to
the “better land,” leaving an infant
daughter six weeks old; her husband,
Elder George S. Taylor, and her widowed
mother, Sister Susan E. Smith, and others
of her family were almost inconsolable
at the loss of one so precious and so
lovable, and whose circumstances gave
promise of so much happiness, These
losses to those who remain seem irrepar-
able, and only time can in part assuage that
poignant grief; but to those who have an
implicit faith in the hope of a resurrec-
tion there is always a consolation: and
the spirit of the Gospel sheds its rays up-
on the heart, of all who bow in meek sub-
mission to the dispensations of divine
Providence.
“And this we call a loss! O, selfish sorrow
	Of selfish hearts! O, we of little faith!
Let us look round some argument to borrow,
Why we in patience should await the morrow
	That surely must succeed this night of death.


[Column 1]
‘Aye, look upon this dreary, desert path,
	The thorns and thistles wheresoe’er we turn,
What trials, and what tears, what wrongs and
		wrath,
What struggles, and what strife the journey
		hath!
	She has escaped from these, and lo! we
		mourn.”
	Sister Priscilla Smith was a most estim-
able young woman, bright and attractive;
a favorite with her young companions at
school and wherever she was known,
She was active in organization work in
the Sunday School and was for years a
teacher in the Junior Theological class,
and also for a number of years president
of the Primary Association of the 17th
ward. She was actively identified with
the Y. L. M. I. A., and a teacher in one
of the departments of that Association.
The educational training and discipline
of the work of these various organizations
prepared her for the higher work and the
broader sphere of the Relief Society, as a
missionary of the General Society among
the several stakes of Zion. For a num-
ber of years and up to the time of her
marriage she had been very efficient in
her duties and in traveling and speaking;
North, south, east and west she traveled
quite extensively in the several stakes of
Zion, visited Mexico, Arizona, California,
Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, and in near-
ly every stake in Utah. Few women as
young have taken hold of this work in
earnest and been as diligent and faithful
and tactful as Sister Priscilla was. She
will be sincerely mourned by the mem-
bers of the Board; we shall miss her
presence in our meetings, where she has
been a regular attendant. She was al-
ways cheerful and ready to respond to
any call made upon her if it was possi-
ble. She was an unusually interesting
speaker on subjects pertaining to the
work of the Society, along all the many
lines embraced in this great movement
for woman’s advancement. Sister Pris-
cilla was genuine, she could always be
depended upon, and she possessed all the
excellent traits of character that make a
womanly woman and a true and faithful
Saint.
“The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
	Because we miss them from our onward road;
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed,
Looked on us all, and loving them the most,
	Straightway relieved them from life’s weary
		load.
“They are not lost—they are within the door
	That shut out loss, and every hurtful thing;
With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord, and Judge and
		King.”
	Priscilla Smith was educated here in
Utah in the very best schools, and at-
tended some years the University of
Utah; being naturally gifted along intel-
lectual lines of study she took special
work in the Uuiversity, and later on, dur-
ing the last few years, took a special
course of study in the Agricultural College
at Logan.
	She had a wide circle of young friends
and was greatly apprectated by them.
She was a valued member of the Sun-
shine Club and other social circles. Add-
ed to the education of schools and univer-
sity studies, Miss Smith took a trip
abroad in 1903, in company with Miss
Rachel Edwards (a graduate of the Utah
University. and for many years a teacher
of marked ability in our public schools).

[Column 2]
They visited the largest and most cele-
brated cities in England and France,
taking in the art galleries, cathedrals
and places of historic interest, and en-
joyed to the utmost the brief time they
were able to spend in sight-seeing.
	Sister Priscilla was the daughter of
President George A. Smith and Susan E.
West Smith, and was born June 11, 1869,
in the old historic house known then and
now, as the Historian’s Office, east on
South Temple Street in this city, the
home of the family of President George
A. Smith for many years. It was there
she grew to womanhood,
	Miss Smith’s marriage to Elder George
S. Taylor, of Provo, was solemnized in
the Salt Lake Temple on Thursday, Oc-
tober 25, 1906, her brother, Apostle John
Henry Smith, performed the ceremony.
A reception was held in the evening at
the residence of her sister and brother-
in-law, Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Williams.
The reception was a delightful occasion,
attended by numerous relatives and
friends. Sincere congratulations and
many beautiful gifts of love and friend-
ship were tendered the happy couple,
and there was seemingly every prospect
of a long and happy life before them.
But alas! we know not what from day to
day may transpire. One short year of
wedded happiness and the home is made
desolate by the departure of the young
wife and mother. 
“Though lost to sight, to memory dear
	Thou ever wilt remain.”
	Sister Taylor’s babe was born Septem-
ber 19, 1907, and she never really rallied,
though at times great hopes were enter-
tained of her recovery. She passed peace-
fully away after months of pain and suf-
fering. Her husband and mother were
constantly with her, and her sisters and
other relatives near and dear were exer-
cising their faith, and rendering every as-
sistance possible under the cirsumstances.
Her sweet babe was then a little more
than six weeks old.
	The funeral services were held in the
Fifth ward chapel of Provo on Wednes-
day, November 6, 1907, Bishop Albert
Manwaring presiding, and excellent music
was furnished by the ward choir. The
speakers were President David John,
Patriarch John Smith, Apostle Reed
Smoot and President F. M. Lyman, who
offered sweet consolation to the bereaved.
There were very many floral offerings,
and the pure white casket that held the
remains was literally embowered in these
beautiful flowers from loving relatives
and friends. Sister Taylor was buried in
the Provo cemetery, near other members
of her husband’s family. The grave was
dedicated by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	A special car conveyed about sixty rel-
atives and friends from Salt Lake City
to attend the funeral services.
	“Farewell! The lonely word that parts
		Binds two in silence ever fast;
	Each throbs to each, these sundered hearts
		One in the sacred past.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	HOLLY AND EASTER LILIES.
	It is good to be able to give expression
to the finest feelings and the most deli-
cate emotions of one’s soul in language

[Column 2]
that is befitting the purest sentiment of
sorrow for one beloved, who has gone
forever from our vision in this mortal life.
It is rare indeed that even a poet can find
words, that will convey in rhythmical
measure the soulful tenderness, that will
touch the hearts of those, who also have
suffered the loss of the nearest and dear-
est companion or friend.
	In that beautiful book recently revised
and republished by Alfred Lambourne.
entitled “Holly And Easter Lilies,” we
find the pathetic word-picture in lines so
exquisitely touching to the human heart
that they thrill every fibre of one’s being
like sweet music of the harp when the
strings are touched gently by graceful
fingers.
	It is gratifying to realize there are liv-
ing poets, who have the divine fire burn-
ing in their souls, that can burst forth in-
to song when the heart is bruised and
bleeding. Love is immortal and let us re-
joice there are those, who can express its
deepest emotions in words for the multi-
tude, who are here today, and for the
generations of men and women yet to be
born, and pass through life’s experiences.
	We commend to all who love poetry,
and to all who believe in love, the Memo-
rial Edition of “Holly And Easter Lilies,”
and we have no hesitation in saying it is
one of the most touching tributes of ten-
der love and pure sentiment,—one could
pay to the wife of his bosom. Better by
far than the most costly monument of
cold marble; for the poem will live in
many hearts will soothe undoubtedly
many who are grief-stricken, and one can
imagine is a part of the soul and life of
the man, who poured forth in such elo-
quent language, the burden of his sadness
for the lost companion of his youth, the
mother of his children.
	The poem as previously published was
one Mrs. Lambourne loved best, her fav-
orite of all her husband has written, and
he has consecrated it to her memory, as
one would dedicate a marble monument
or fountain; and aside from the soul-thril-
ling melody of the words the publication
of this little volume has cost its author in
money value, as much as a marble column
reared to her memory. It is like sacrilege
to allude to money value here, but in this
commercial age, it is almost imperative.
	The portrait of Mrs. Lambourne in the
book gives one little idea of the true
womanly wealth of love and sympathy,
she poured out lavishly upon her hus-
band, when he was toiling with pen or
brush, and his whole soul wrought upon
to give the true artistic tonches to his
work.
	The opening verse “To Wilhelmina
Marie” is exquisite in its thoughtful ten-
derness, but the closing lines carry in the
word “Forever” that which should be to
the writer a talisman of all he should
strive to gain for conjugal immortality of
hope and reunion Hereafter.
	The closing short poem “Rest” after
the year of sorrow had passed is full of
yearning and of grief unspoken, but the
writer hopes for all such sensitive souls,
the balm time carries on his wings in his
onward never-ending flight, may bring its
healing virtues, and that from the sorrow-
crushed spirit may come forth greater
courage and strength to comfort others,
who suffer, and it is well for all to re-
member; they are most triumphant who
are most tested.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CHRISTMAS AGAIN.
	Around the Christmas tree,
	Join hands in charity
And hail with joy and praise whatever lights
			our way.
	And so Christmas has come again with
its hurly-burly and noise, and overflow of
playthings and toys for the little girls and
boys—Santa Claus himself to distribute
their gifts and fill the stockings, little and
big by the chimney piece and on chairs
and tables and the Xmas trees, great and
small, in parlor or bedroom or hall, any-
where that there is room enough. O the
delight of the children, what joy and
pleasure it brings to the home, even
though some of the elder ones are full
of cares and anxieties or sorrows, yet the
children’s mirth and playfulness, songs
and laughter cannot but bring rays of sun-
shine into the saddened hearts, and there-
fore it is good to have the Christmas
time, whether the snow falls, or the wind
blows, or whatever troubles assail us from
without, or within no matter.
	Xmas comes to all, rich and poor, high
and low, and it is as welcome in the
humble cottage, as in the lordly mansion.
	It may be that all do not realize its true
meaning, or give heed to the admonitions
that might be of real benefit to them, but
it always brings thoughts and reflections
naturally; there are few people in the
world who are not touched with kindli-
ness in some degree at Christmas, and as
the years roll on the sentiment, the feel-
ing that the day inspires does not die out,
indeed, one might say Christmas “wears
well,” we never tire of it, especially the
children and those who enter into the in-
nocent spirit, and the pastimes of the lit-
tle folks; the Savior whose birth we cele-
brate loved little children, and gave the
pattern for all to follow, when He said to
His disciples, “Except ye become as lit-
tle children ye shall not enter into the
kingdom of heaven.”
	It is good sometimes to banish care
and if possible forget, or lay aside the
everyday worries, annoyances and per-
plexities that trammel us and make us
irritable, and hinder, whole-hearted en-
joyment; but if only one could be joyous
and care-free for the sake of the children it
would be better for one’s own health as
well as happiness; and in the years to
come the children grown to man and
womanhood will recall with greater pleas-
ure how father and mother and the older
members of the family entered into the
Christmas spirit with them, when they
were of a young and tender age; and they
will not only follow the example set for
them but will recount to their flock of
little ones the childish sports and games,
and fairy tales of their own happy child-
hood, and thus perpetuate the family
history on its social side in a way to make
a lasting impression. Nothing is more
true on this subject or expresses the idea
we desire to convey than the singing in
the home of the songs and hymns of the
times, and of the past, Mrs. Heman’s
exquisite poem, “The Songs of Our
Fathers,” reiterates the thought; we quote
here a verse or two—
	The songs their souls rejoiced to hear,
		When harps were in the hall,
	And each proud note made lance and spear
		Thrill on the banner'd wall.
	The songs that through our valleys green,
		Sent on from age to age.
	Like his own river’s voice have been
		The peasant’s heritage,

[Column 2]
	So let it be—a light they shed
		O’er each old fount and grove;
	A memory of the gentle dead,
		A lingering spell of love.
	Murmuring the names of mighty men,
		They bid our streams roll on
	And link high thoughts to every glen
		Where valiant deeds were done.
	So shall each unforgotten word
		When far those loved ones roam,
	Call back the hearts which once it stired
		To childhood’s holy home.
	Sing to your sons those melodies,
		The songs your father’s loved.
	The writer does not only wish for the
old songs, but for the old memories to be
handed down, remembrances of the genial
days of life that when the little ones now
clustering round the Christmas fireside,
or the Christmas tree, or playing at the
father’s knee are grown they may carry
into the years to come that beautiful home
picture of Christmas or holiday times in
the early home and rehearse such themes
to the children of that later time.
	Banish care and gloom for a day, or a
few hours (whatever the cause) for the
sake of the children. The English people
have many simple pastimes and cus-
toms that have been continued down the
ages almost, and they are very impressive,
although some writers tell us that now in
England, Christmas is not what it once
was. “The world has become more
worldly, more of dissipation and less of
enjoyment. The traditionary customs of
golden-hearted antiquity, its feudal hos-
pitality and lordly wassailings have passed
away with the baronial castles and state-
ly manor-houses in which they were cele-
brated. They comported with the shadowy
hall, the great oaken gallery, and the tap-
estried parlor, but are unfitted to the
light, showy saloons and gay drawing-
rooms of the modern villa.”
	Yet, now among the peasantry many of
the pretty customs are still kept up, ever-
greens distributed from house to house,
the sound of the waits on the midnight
air, however rude the minstrelsy may
be, awakens sentiment and breaks the
midnight watches, and reminds one that
the season of festivity and of peace and
of good will to all mankind has returned,
and that mutual greetings of relatives and
friends is being proceeded with even
though we have radiators instead of the
great open fire, and Teddy Bears in the
place of rag-dolls or real ones, but let us
hope and believe, and perpetuate if possi-
ble, the gathering of kindred and friends
and the open hearted hospitality of “ye
olden time.’’
	But at family holiday dinners or ban-
quets, there is usually inadvertently much
historic matter in the conversation that
one may glean for his own benefit or
future use, though there may prevail an
innocent hilarity and a spirit of revelry,
mingled with the songs and jests and
superstitious legends.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		SEVIER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Se-
vier Stake convened in Richfield Relief
Society Hall at ten a. m. June 22, 1907.
Stake President Christina W. Sorensen
presiding.
	Sisters Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M.

[Column 2]
Farnsworth, from the General Board, who
were visiting our stake, were present.
	After opening exercises President C.
Sorensen welcomed the visiting sisters
and all present.
	President Mary E. Magleby read an ad-
dress from President B. W. Smith, to
officers of the Relief Society after which
President C. Sorensen said, she was
pleased to meet in this new Relief So-
ciety Hall, it is a beautiful building. Re-
ported the labors of the Stake Board,
said we are united, we feel our weakness,
but with the blessings of the Lord we try
to do our duty. We visit each ward once
a year, have twenty branches in the
stake, find the sisters united and energet-
ic, and ready to comply with instructions
given. She spoke of the stake business
meetings, where we get reports, we have
no helps, but expect presidents and coun-
selors of the different branches to be our
helps. Also of Missionary Sisters visiting
each others Society and bringing in re-
ports of improvement to all, those who
are visiting and those who are visited.
We feel highly honored, to have Sisters
Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth from the General Board with us
today.
	President Minnie Nebeker of the first
ward Richfield spoke of the new building
we are permitted to meet in today, it is
not quite finished so we cannot dedicate
it today as anticipated. About a year ago
we had some over $700 from selling build-
ing of former Relief Society. On last
Thanksgiving Day each sister donated $1.
We met with the Bishopric, counseled
with them, we asked the brethren in the
ward how much they loved their wives
and in this way we raised between $500
and $600. Bishop Heber Christensen and
William Ogden and many others assisted
materially. We have made our hall large
as we found the need of a house to
meet in socially and have parties, and en-
courage the young people to meet with
us and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Nebeker also gave a Lecture,
“Sphere of Woman”, made many beauti-
ful remarks, a good woman ever being
dispenser of love and joy in every home,
and using a good influence where ever
she may be.
	Vocal Solo by Sister Anna Orrock and
company.
	President Henrietta Wright, Richfield,
2nd ward, spoke of holding meeting each
Monday at 3 p. m. Sisters feel blessed
in visits of teachers, also spoke of the Re-
lief Society house, and congratulated Sis-
ters of the 1st ward, to have such a nice
place to meet in, and enjoy young peo-
ple socially.
	Sister Julina L. Smith felt more than
pleased to meet with the sisters, said “I
can feel the Spirit, that you are united,
it is the nicest Relief Society Building I
have seen. Every one has donated free-
ly. This Society is not only for older
sisters, but young mothers should be cal-
led to visit with the sisters who are older.
Said President B. W. Smith sent her love
to all. Gave some of her experiences in
taking care of old ladies; she loved to
visit with the sisters, almost every sister
can bear her testimony.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth spoke of
the new hall, and of the other two halls
in Richfield, also of the lecture given by
President Minnie Nebeker, she said our
husbands are the best husbands in the


[Column 1]
world. Our mission is to look after the
poor and the sick, encourage those who
are downhearted, we should not be gos-
sipers; encouraged wives and mothers to
live worthy lives. I feel we have a warm
welcome here, I feel you are united.
	Stake President Wm. Seegmiller. “I
enjoy very much in meeting with you, in
this new building, feel the Spirit of God
is in our midst, great credit is due, to
those who had the matter in hand. Be
wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
It is a grand thing to meet people, who
have the same object in view; spoke in
praise of the labors and efforts of the sis-
ters, hope you will be interested, and
every labor you do may stimulate to still
greater labors. What a wonderful mis-
sion is ours; may God bless us in all our
labors.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. after
singing and prayer.
	Conference continued at 2 p. m. Pre-
sident C. Sorensen presiding.
	After singing, prayer and other exer-
cises General and Stake Officers of the
Relief Society were unanimously sustain-
ed.
	President C. Ogelvie, Richfield, 3rd ward,
reported and then Sister Farnsworth
spoke of the good spirit in our midst, and
the building fund, for “Womans Building”
to be erected in near future, the brethren
had agreed to take the care of the build-
ing upon themselves. Encouraged the
stake to send more sisters to learn the
nurse course. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp to be
teacher this year. Many more nurses are
needed in our outlying stakes, spoke of
Sister Empy’s labors in this line, also of
saving grain. The Relief Society gave
20 tons of flour, to famine stricken Chinese
this summer, first car load of clothing,
etc., sent to San Francisco after earth-
quake and fire, was sent from the four
stakes of Salt Lake City. Encourage our
sons, to get acquainted with the Relief
Society meetings, it will be of great be-
nefit to them, when in the mission field.
We should be a light to the world, teach
our children to live moral lives.
	Sister Julina L. Smith said, almost
every point has been touched. We should
send our girls to Latter-day Saints’ homes,
when sending them to Salt Lake City to
work, gave some of her experiences with
girls; said my children always let me
know, when they come home at night.
We cannot fill a better mission than to
look after our children, and not send
them away or turn them out in the street,
begin when they are little, raise our girls
to make good mothers. Let our children
attend meetings, stay at home ourselves
if need be. The Relief Society is at the
head of Mutual and Primary Associations.
We feel the influence of Latter-day Saints
in our midst. We can give a good report
of your stake.
	Instrumental Music by Sister Josie
Christensen.
	Brother William Ogden said, he had
been acquainted with the labors of the
Society in building this hall, he had the
privilege of writing out the checks.
	President Minnie Nebeker and associ-
ates need praise for accomplishing this
task.
	Counselor Ellen Theuson, with feelings
of joy, we are trying to do our duty, felt
blessed to be a member of the Relief So-
ciety. Don’t let us neglect our duties,

[Column 2]
teach our children to pay tithing, in time
of trouble they will remember the teach-
ings of their mothers, let us be humble
and prayerful, we will all be tried.
	Sister Caroline Bohman, Treasurer,
also paid tribute to the labor of the sis-
ters, said, the blessings, of the Lord are
with us, in our efforts to do our duty. We
are fed by the Spirit of the Lord in our
meetings.
	President C. Sorensen always enjoyed
Relief Society meetings, rejoiced in the
work; was thankful to those who enter-
tained us, also to the singers. Let us
continue in good works. God bless the
sisters visiting with us that they may re-
turn in safety.
	An officers meeting will be held after
this meeting.
	Sister Julina Smith also thanked the
singers.
	After the benediction Conference ad-
journed for three months.
			MARY M. SWINDLE,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
“WHY A WOMAN SHOULD DESIRE TO
		BE A MORMON.”

	(Written by special request and read at
Womens’ Clubs in New York.)
	“Pure religion as taught by Jesus Christ
is a life, a growth, a divine spirit within,
coming out in love and sympathy and
helpfulness to our fellow-men.”
	I realize that my subject is a most deli-
cate one to write upon, knowing as I do,
how “Mormonism,” so-called, is looked
upon by those who are unacquainted with
the people called “Mormons.” What-
ever I may say must be from my point of
view, and will assuredly be in accordance
with facts, largely of my own personal
knowledge, and wholly on the woman’s
side of the question, according to the title
given me.
	What the world terms “Mormonism,”
we call the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
our Savior says is “the power of God un-
to salvation,” etc. We believe the ever-
lasting Gospel has been restored to the
earth in this last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. Rev. 14: 6 reads, “And I
saw another angel fly in the midst of
heaven, having the eyerlasting Gospel to
preach unto them that dwell on the earth,
and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people.,’ It is the belief and
firm conviction of the Latter-day Saints
that the angel came, that the Gospel was
restored to the earth, that Joseph Smith
was commissioned from heaven to declare
unto the children of men the restoration
of all things that had been before time,
that he was ordained by Peter, James
and John to the same priesthood they
held, and that he ordained his followers
in like manner.
	Since that time, notwithstanding all the
drivings, mobbings and persecutions, the
Elders of the Church have gone forth,
preaching the Gospel and baptizing those
who became converted, until the sound
thereof has reached many lands and
climes, kindreds, tongues, and peoples.
	Our Articles of Faith are:
	1. We believe in God, the Eternal
Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and
in the Holy Ghost.
	2. We believe that men will be pun-

[Column 2]
ished for their own sins, and not for
Adam’s transgression.
	3. We believe that through the atone-
ment of Christ, all mankind may be saved
by obedience to the laws and ordinances
of the Gospel.
	4. We believe that the first principles
and ordinances of the Gospel are: (1)
Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) Re-
pentance; (3) Baptism by immersion for
the remission of sins; (4) Laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.
	5. We believe that a man must be
called of God, by prophecy, and by the
laying on of hands, by those who are in
authority, to preach the Gospel and ad-
minister in the ordinances thereof.
	6. We believe in the same organization
that existed in the Primitive Church, viz;
apostles, prophets, teachers, evangelists,
etc.
	7. We believe in the gift of tongues
prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, in-
terpretation of tongues, etc.
	8. We believe the Bible to be the word
of God, as far as it is translated correctly;
we also believe the Book of Mormon to
be the word of God.
	9. We believe all that God has re-
vealed, all that He does now reveal, and
we believe that He will yet reveal many
great and important things pertaining to
the Kingdom of God.
	10. We believe in the literal gathering
of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten
Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this
(the American) continent; that Christ
will reign personally upon the earth;
and that the earth will be renewed and
receive its paradisiacal glory.
	11. We claim the privilege of worship-
ing Almighty God according to the dic-
tates of our conscience, and allow all men
the same privilege, let them worship how,
where, or what they may.
	12. We believe in being subject to
kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates,
in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the
law.
	13. We believe in being honest, true,
chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in do-
ing good to all men; indeed, we may say
that we follow the admonition of Paul,
We believe all things, we hope all things,
we have endured many things, and hope
to be able to endure all things. If there
is anything virtuous, lovely. or of good
report or praiseworthy, we seek after
these things.—Joseph Smith.
	We believe in the pre-existent state,
that we are created spiritually or existed
in the spirit world before coming here,
that we consented to come, that we
might have a body for our spirits to dwell
in. This pre-existent state is often spoken
of as primeval childhood, or first estate.
The Lord said to Abraham, “And they who
keep their first estate shall be added upon,
and they who keep not this first estate
shall not have glory in the same kingdom
with those who keep their first estate;
and they who keep their second estate
shall have glory added upon their heads
forever and ever.”
	Moses sang, “Remember the days of old
		when the Most High divided to
the nations their inheritance, when He
separated the sons of Adam. He set the
bounds of the people according to the
number of the children of Israel.” The
population of the earth is fixed according
to the number of spirits appointed to take


[Column 1]
tabernacles of flesh upon this earth. We
also read in Genesis of the creation of the
plants and herbs. “Every plant of the field
before it was in the earth, and every herb
of the field before it grew.” And further,
“And I the Lord God had created all the
children of men, and not yet a man to
till the ground, for in heaven created I
them, and there was not yet flesh upon
the earth, neither in the water, nor in
the air; but I the Lord God, spake and
there went a mist from the earth and
watered the whole face of the ground.
And I the Lord God, formed man from
the dust of the ground and breathed into
his nostrils the breath of life, and man
became a living soul, the first flesh upon
the earth, the first man also; neverthe-
less all things were before created but
spiritually were they created and made
according to my word.”
	We believe there are many spirits yet
(yes waiting) to come forth upon this
earth in this dispensation, before the
Millennium, and that they have a right to
be well-born and also to have a body for
their spirits to dwell in, free from disease
and evil, if possible.
	We believe in redemption from the
curse placed upon woman. If you ask
why, we tell you it is a part of our re-
ligion, and we are working to bring it to
pass. In the last days, all things are to
be restored as they were in the beginning.
Eve was created equal with Adam, though
Adam was first. Genesis 1: 27, “So God
created man in His own image, in the
mage of God created He him, male and
female created He them.” In verse 28,
God said, “Be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, and subdue it, and
have dominion,” etc. Woman then was
also given dominion. After the fall, in
chapter 3, verse 16, God said to woman,
“In sorrow shalt thou bring forth chil-
 dren, and thy desire shall he to thy hus-
band, and he shall rule over thee,” plain-
ly showing it had not been so in the be-
ginning.
	Woman will be redeemed from that
curse, as sure as the sun shines or the
Lord lives. And the man and the woman
will be equal, except there must neces-
sarily always be a first, and the man is
first.
	In the Church termed “Mormon,” wo-
men have always voted in all Church as-
semblies, on all questions relating to
temporal or spiritual matters, just as free-
ly as men, therefore it was not strange
that equal suffrage should be accorded to
our women at an early period. In fact,
woman suffrage is in keeping with the in-
stitutions of Mormonism and in harmony
therewith. Brigham Young was one of
the most progressive men of the age, and
the moment woman suffrage was talked
of, he favored it. The legislature then
in session in the winter of 1869 and 1870,
passed a bill giving women equal suffrage,
and the Hon. Abraham O. Smoot (father
of Senator Reed Smoot whose seat in the
Senate of the United States, is now be-

[Column 2]
ing contested) was the man who intro-
duced the bill, which passed, as you
doubtless know, and was signed by the
Secretary of State, the Hon. S. A. Mann,
then Acting Governor in the absence of
the Governor.
	As woman took the lead in the great
drama in the Garden of Eden and the
curse followed, and she suffered the con-
sequences; the daughters of Eve will, we
think, be instrumental in a great measure
through the Gospel in effecting the re-
demption of woman from the curse.
Christianity, so-called, wherever it exists
ameliorates the condition of woman, but
no vital power has yet redeemed her from
the curse. Woman in all countries
wields directly or indirectly the moving
influence for good or ill. History shows
that so long as woman maintained honor,
virtue and purity, grace and dignity as a
wife and mother, that nation had perma-
nency and influence.
	Here let me say the curse was not per-
petual, and that Eve was a willing instru-
ment in effecting a grand purpose for the
ultimate good of the human family, God
had so ordained.
	In the meridian of time the Savior
came, and introduced the Gospel, “which
before was preached unto Abraham,” and
after many centuries when men had
changed its ordinances and broken the
everlasting covenant, the Savion came
through a woman who had to suffer be-
cause of the manner of His birth, though
one cannot help feeling she had spiritual
recompense and consciousness of knowl-
edge others knew not of, yet it was a
woman who brought it about (or through
a woman) this atonement for Adam’s sin;
certainly we know God foreordained this
atonement, the Bible gives abundant
proof, nevertheless, woman took again
this prominent part, and again afterwards,
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were
the first to go and tell the disciples that
Jesus had risen. In Matthew, chapter
xxviii, verse 9, “And as they went to tell
His disciples, behold Jesus met them, say-
ing, “All hail,” and they came and held
Him by the feet and worshiped Him. 10.
Then said Jesus unto them, “Be not
afraid; go tell my brethren, that they go
into Galilee and there they shall see me.”
	In view of all these things and many
more, how can one help thinking woman
will have some vital part in the great
work of redeeming her own sex, the
daughters of Eve, when she has played
so conspicuous a part, first in the Garden
of Eden; and as in the great drama of
the world woman is and has been a
vital, active force, so it will be at the
close of the most sublime drama ever in-
troduced upon any stage, woman in her
purity and magnanimity will rise victori-
ous, having finished the part assigned her
and made restitution. Redeemed from
the curse, her triumph, her song of vic-
tory will be greater and loftier far than
Miriam’s or Deborah’s of old.
	Shakespeare said, “All the world’s a

[Column 3]
stage, and all the men and women mere-
ly players; they have their exits and their
entrances, and one man in his time plays
many parts, his acts being seven ages.”
We most of us believe in Shakespeare,
except those who think Bacon wrote
Shakespeare, and I am not one who does,
and even if it were so, I prefer the truth,
if it is one, the other side takes away
all the dreams of one’s lifetime and ut-
terly destroys the beautiful past. To
pull down Shakespeare and put up Ba-
con is a cruel mockery.
	One can scarcely enter in a philosophi-
cal sense upon why a woman should de-
sire to be a “Mormon” without going
back into the history of the past. I am
aware that in this progressive age that
looking backward is out of fashion, yet
I must in order to explain matters sat-
isfactorily go back to the early days of
the Church, the world calls “Mormon.”
In the opening of this paper, I spoke of
the Gospel, its introduction and of Joseph
Smith receiving the priesthood. Now I
am going to tell you of something which
transpired previous to the Gospel’s being
brought to Kirtland, Ohio, the first gath-
ering place and where the first temple
was built.
	It was a vision and I shall give it in the
words of the woman who had the mani-
festation, and I have heard it many times
from her own lips.
	“My husband, Newel K. Whitney, and
myself, were Campbellites. We had been
baptized for the remission of sins, and
believed in the laying on of hands and
the gift of the spirit. But there was no
one with authority to confer the Holy
Ghost upon us. We were seeking to
know how to obtain the spirit and the
gifts bestowed upon the ancient Saints.
One night, it was midnight, as my hus-
band and I in our house in Kirtland were
praying to the Father to be shown the
way, the spirit rested upon us and a cloud
overshadowed the house. It was as
though we were out of doors. The house
passed away from our vision. We were
not conscious of anything but the pres-
ence of the spirit and the cloud that was
over us. We saw the cloud, and felt the
Spirit of the Lord. Then we heard a
voice out of the cloud saying: ‘Prepare to
receive the word of the Lord for it is
coming!’ At this we marveled greatly,
but from that moment we knew that the
word of the Lord was coming to Kirt-
land.”
	This kind of vision is spoken of by the
ancient Hebrews or Israelites the sacred
people who inherited the covenant as
“Daughter of the Voice.” This is said
to be the tradition of the sons and daugh-
ters of Judah. However this may be,
soon after this remarkable event, the Gos-
pel came to Kirtland.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Anna Whitlock, president of the
National Woman Suffrage Association of
Sweden, has organized in Stockholm a
course of lectures for women on citizen-
ship. The lectures are given twice a
week, and are attended by two or three
hundred women of all classes. Tickets
for working women are issued at a re-
duced price. Eminent speakers, both
men and women, give their services.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should he a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
