Vol. 36.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1908. [NEW YEAR’S NUMBER.]			No. 6.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Letter from Afar.................Susie M. Morgan		41
Relief Society Reports:—Box Elder Stake—
	Nebo Stake—San Juan Stake.................	42
	Liberty Stake—Granite Stake.................	43
	Huntsville R. S.—Alpine Stake..............	45
Resolutions of Respect for Sister Caroline D.
	S. Brown.................................................	42
Our Darling Marian...........................E. B. W.	43
Editorial:—The New Year 1908!—An Artistic
	Booklet—A Pretty Home Wedding—
	Notice to Stake Secretaries.....................	44
In Loving Remembrance of Fanny L. Harper	46
“Why a Woman Should Desire to be a Mor-
	mon”.........................Emmeline B. Wells	46
History of the U. W. Press Club......................	48
Poetry:—A Happy New Year to You.....F.R.H.	51
	Old Loves..........................Henyr Murger	41
	An Epitaph..........Lena Griswold Browne	43


A HAPPY NEW YEAR TO YOU.
New mercies, new blessings, new light on the way,
New courage, new hope and new strength for each
	day;
New notes of thanksgiving, new chords of delight,
New praise in the morning, new songs in the
	night;
New wine in the chalice, new altars to raise,
New fruits for the Master, new garments of praise,
New gifts from His treasure, new smiles from
	His face,
New streams from the fountain of Infinite grace.

May He whose changeless glorious name,
Is now and evermore the same.
Make this and every Christmas day,
A brighter light upon the way.
								F. R. H.


OLD LOVES.
	FROM HENRI MURGER.
Louise, have you forgotten yet
	The corner of the flowery land,
The ancient garden where we met,
	My hand that trembled in your hand?
Our lips found words scarce sweet enough,
	As low beneath the willow trees
We sat: have you forgotten, love?
	Do you remember, love-Loaise?
Marie, have you forgotten yet
	The loving barter that we made?
The rings we changed, the suns that set,
	The woods full filled with sun and shade?
The fountains that were musical
	By many an ancient trysting tree—
Marie, have you forgotten all?
	Do you remember, love Marie?
Christine, do you remember yet
	Your room with scents and roses gay?
My garret—near the sky ‘twas set-
	The April hours, the nights of May?
The clear, calm night—the stars above
	That whispered they were fairest seen
Through no cloud-veils? Remember, love!
	Do you remember, love, Christine?
Louise is dead, and, well-a-day!
	Marie a sadder path has ta’en!
And pale Christine has passed away
	In southern suns to bloom again.
Alas! for one and all of us—
	Marie, Louise, Christine, forget:
Our bower of love is ruinous,
	And I alone remember yet.


LETTER FROM AFAR.
	HAZELDENE, AMALINDA, near East
		London, South Africa,
			December 6th, 1907.
		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
DEAR SISTER:
	I wish I could tell you how pleased I was
to receive a P. C. verses and papers from
you two weeks ago. Accept my heartfelt
thanks for such kind thought of me. I do
thoroughly enjoy every word of your excel-
lent paper. I wonder if the saints in Utah
realize how much it is to us out here to re-
ceive anything like that. What a grand
work the Relief Society must be doing and
as I read reports of the meetings and topics
taken I long to join you. I am hoping and
praying that the way will soon be opened
for us to go to Utah. I am rejoicing more
and more in our grand religion and the more
I read, study or think about it, the more
beautiful and perfect it seems to me, and oh,
how I wish I could tell others how I feel,
and why I know it is true; but I fail to make
them understand. As a Christian worker
for years past I have many friends, but not
one of them has any sympathy with my re-
ligion now. My dearest friend, the one who
has been help and comfort to me all my life,
nearly, is not interested enough to read any
Latter-day Saint paper or book. She says
she loves me the same and I have been used
to pouring out my whole heart to her and
now, feel a restraint in what is filling my
heart and mind. Such things are trials to
a sensitive nature; also what we hear said
about the Prophet Joseph and others. I
have been a Sunday School teacher in vari-
ous denominations, but to none of their creeds
could I place my whole heart or feel what I
feel now to our Church. The elders who
have labored in this district have been faith-
ful messengers, but so few take the trouble
to investigate for themselves. We regretted
Elder Geo. M. Cannon’s transfer to another
district. He is a noble character truly Christ-
like. We bid Elder Sheffield goodbye, last
month, and felt like parting from one of the
family. We shall never forget their good-
ness. They used to have a Bible-class with
us twice a month. At present there are no
elders in East London and just one member
beside those of this family; she is a good
woman, in humble circumstances; she is
desirous of going to Utah. I wish I had the
means to send her. Mother and I look for-
ward to the time when we shall have the
privilege and joy of attending conference and
listening to those inspiring discourses. I
love to read them. Another thing I love to
read are the meetings of “Daughters of Pio-
neers”. Oh, how grand it must be to be
one of them. I am a great reader and lover
of good books and literature. I have never
been able to gratify my desire to be the pos-
sessor of a library of good books. Before I
was ten years of age I had read a great
number of books. My father being fond of
reading. I learned when quite young to guide
and control my appetite for reading to choose
wholesome helpful books. I want now to
own all the church works, books and history,

[Column 2]
but cannot afford to buy any. I love poetry,
especially sacred poetry. Have you read
“Whitney’s Poem?” I would like to see the
book. I think it is called “Elias.” As a
child my ambition was to write stories and
books, but I left school when quite young,
and began to help my mother in the care of
a large family; being the eldest in a family of
twelve and you know where there are little
babies coming so often, how much work
there is for mother and big sister.
	I thank God for the patience He enabled
me to give to the little ones. It seemed a
hard discipline to me at times; I ever strove
to be a dutiful daughter and sister; was often
in prayer for help to be kind and loving.
Many times I wanted to be writing, or read-
ing and had to hold baby or cook. I often
think of the wonderful thoughts I used to
have while in the kitchen. I used to prop
my books open on the table to read or learn
pieces. I am very fond of children. I have
only one, a boy of ten. I have been living
with my mother and family since he was
twenty months old. He is a bright little
fellow, and I pray God to help me to bring
him up to be a true Latter-day Saint. It is
hard to train boys without a father’s help.
How beautiful it must be to have a good
husband. My dear father was so good and
mother misses his shielding care of her; he
was called away eight years ago, and, oh,
how we all miss him, he was such a good
father.
	We live on a farm 5 miles from the town.
A long drouth of six months has been very
trying to us; spring rains were witheld.
Three weeks ago copious rains began. The
dry brown aspect of the country is changed
to lovely green; all are busy, ploughing and
sowing, and all vegetation is growing and
though it is summer, it seems like spring.
Lovely wild flowers grow here, I have pres-
sed some on a card for you.
	Christmas will soon be here. I send greet-
ings to you and yours. We hope to have
three elders to spend christmas with us. I
will send you a piece for the EXPONENT if
you care to have one to print; it may interest
some of the sisters to hear about this part
of the world. My mother and brother join
me in loving gospel greetings to you. I hope
to meet you some day. Thanks for good
wishes expressed on your pretty card. Please
write to me soon and remember in your
prayers your sister in the gospel
				SUSIE M. MORGAN.

	P. S. May I ask you to please give my
greeting to Sister Susa Young Gates and tell
her how much I enjoyed reading her address
to “Women of the World," I think it fine.
I received with joy Sister Smith’s letter and
I will answer it shortly.


The famous old Liberty Bell now belongs
to four women, Mrs. James B. McCloskey,
Mrs. C. D. Emerson and Mrs. S. B. Coward
of Philadelphia, and Mrs. S. W. B. Diehl of
Washington, D. C. These four women are
sisters, and the heiresses of John Willbank.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake was held in the Tabernacle
Brigham City, November 5, 1907. Presi-
dent Susannah P. Booth presiding. Sister
Emily Richards of the General Board was
present, also Stake President Olein N. Stohl,
and the officers of the Stake Relief Society.
16 branches of the Society were represent-
ed.
	After the opening exercises President
Booth gave the opening address, felt grate-
ful for the blessings of the Lord, urged the
sisters to be faithful in observing the laws
of the Church, spoke of her recent visit to
the conference at Salt Lake City, had at-
tended many meetings there and enjoyed
the instructions given, felt pleased that the
Relief Society Hall was in course of erec-
tion, mentioned what had been donated by
the Relief Society of the stake, towards the
building.
	Garland Society was reported by President
Julia Bingham; Bothwell by Pres. Sophia
Anderson; Beaver by President Lydia E.
Watkins; Scandinavian Society by President
Emma Pratt.
	Sister Emily Richards said, there is an
heavenly influence here which we always
feel in the meetings of the sisters, referred
to several meetings she had attended, where
many sisters were present, where the in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit flowed freely.
Quoted remarks made by President Joseph
F. Smith, also by the Prophet Joseph in re-
gard to woman’s progress and improvement.
Women are a litte inclined to be contracted,
they must expand before man will be what
he might be, for they are the mothers of
men.
	President Stohl said, how thankful we
should be for the gospel and for the great
knowledge we have received, the complete
organization of the Church. The gospel was
restored in this dispensation to prepare the
way for the coming of Christ. He bore his
testimony, and related several incidents,
spoke on the word of wisdom, advised par-
ents to instruct their families in honesty and
purity of character.
	President Booth made a few closing re-
marks.
	After singing prayer was offered by Coun-
selor Mary J. Harding the sisters repaired to
the vestry where refreshments were served,
after which an officers’ meeting was held and
valuable instructions given by Mrs. Emily
Richards and others.
	Conference was reconvened at 2 o’clock.
President Booth presiding. Stake Counselor
W. C. Horsley was present. After the open-
ing exercises of singing and prayer, etc.,
Bear River City Society was reported by
President Sarah M. Fridahl; Elwood, by
Counselor Annie Hansen.
	Sister Lottie Cazier sang “Providence is
over all.”
	Stake Counselor Emilia D. Madsen spoke
on attending meetings, said, we often ex-
cuse ourselves and others for triflling cares.
We can overcome these little difficulties if
we are determined to do so; referred to her
past labors and associations in the Relief
Society, gave instructions to the teachers,
also spoke at length on the word of wisdom,
rejoiced greatly in the privileges of the gos-
pel.
	Sister Emily Richards expressed pleasure
in witnessing the order of the meetings here,
how nicely and orderly everything was con-

[Column 2]
ducted, was pleased with all she had seen
and heard; spoke of training the young peo-
ple, the care necessary to properly bring
them up, etc.; gave explanations concerning
the nurses class; spoke on the influence of
woman, her help is needed everywhere to
put down lawlessness, so much destruction
has recently been done by our own children;
spoke on existing conditions among us, and
said, there are women, who would rather
take care of dogs than children.
	The Latter-day Saint women know what
their jewels are. Read a poem, “The Mas-
ter.” She spoke interestingly on many other
subjects.
	Elder W. C. Horsley was pleased with the
privilege of attending this conference and of
listening to the speakers, related an incident
or two concerning the young people. Said,
“we must sometimes take a firm stand or
we will have no children.” Related several
incidents and experiences in his travels
among the people, mentioned some of the
good work, accomplished by the Relief So-
ciety in this stake; read two poems, the first
entitled “The mean man,” the second
“What have we done today.”
	President Booth said, we all have been
benefited today by attending this conference,
thanked all for their attendance and assist-
ance.
	After singing “Our God we raise to Thee”
and bendiction by Sister Emmeline Watkins
conference adjourned until next June.
				ANNIE J. WIXOM,
							Secretary.
				NEBO.
	Conference of Nebo Stake Relief Society
was held at Mammoth meeting house, Presi-
dent E. J. Dixon presiding. After the usual
opening exercises, Sister Forcey, president
of Mammoth ward R. S., welcomed us to
their city. Reported Mammoth Ward
society in good condition. President Dixon
was pleased to meet with us in conference
capacity and well pleased with the good re-
port. Asked for a representative to be at
our union meeting to keep in touch with
the work. We must keep up with our du-
ties, if we expect to gain the reward, if we
keep the laws we are sure to have the bless-
ings, we must look in, and not out, look
for the good in ourselves. Sisters Whit-
lock and Freckleton sang a beautiful duet,
“Angels are Watching us.” Sister Mary
Brown read an article on R. S. work and
duties reported the General R. S. still in-
creasing rapidly. Read what Sister Bath-
sheba Smith said in regard to the scope of
R. S. work. Recitation by Sister Millie
Sutherland. Sister May Miller talked on
good environment. Meeting adjourned un-
til 2 p. m., with singing and prayer.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. After
singing and prayer, reports were heard from
Sister Boyer of Silver, Sister Jones, Eureka,
Sister Forcey, Mammoth, Sister Pierce,
Salem; all in good working order, united
and doing well.
	Duet by Lizzie Allen and Laura Bring-
hurst,
	Sister Townsend spoke of the importance
and magnitude of R. S. work and the great
good accomplished by the sisters each year.
Brother Chatwin was pleased with the re-
ports that had been given here today, spoke
of the power of love with our children in
governing and controlling them. President
Dixon reported Nebo Stake R. S., thanked
the sisters for their contribution to the

[Column 3]
stake tabernacle and also thanked them for
their hospitality.
	Singing, “Do what is right.” Conference
adjourned. Benediction by Sister Forcey.
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.
			SAN JUAN.
	The San Juan Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Mancos, Colorado, on
Monday, November 11, 1907. Sisters Annie
T. Hyde and Minnie H. James, of the Gen-
eral Board, as well as a great number of
visftors were present. Stake President
Mary N. Jones presiding. After the open-
ing exercises, the reports of the ten branches
of the Relief Society were given. These re-
ports showed a diligence in the work, not-
withstanding the scattered condition here.
Brother John Evans favored us with a vocal
selection, “Sometime we’ll understand.”
Counselor Annie T. Hyde of the General
Relief Society gave an interesting history of
the early days of the society. We special-
ize the Gospel, we have to live the Gospel
before we can teach it. The love of the
Gospel should be strong enough to enable
us to keep all the commandments. God
meant what he said, “Man, know thyself.”
We need to teach the young people to be
pure minded. We hope the girls will grad-
uate from the mutual and become efficient
Relief Society workers. We grow by what
we give. The test of the love of the Gospel
is shown by the way we live. Don’t worry,
preserve your health that your lives may be
prolonged.”
	Sister Minnie H. James said the Prophet
said every virtuous woman was to be a
member of the society. He opened the
gate and led us in.
	Sister Vida Halls favored us with a solo,
“Sometime, Somewhere.” A good spirit
prevailed throughout the meeting. Our
officers’ meeting was held at 4 p. m., in
which the nurses’ work was spoken of by
Sister Hyde. The day was perfect and
everything contributed to the success of
the conference.
		MARY LYMAN, Sec. pro. tem.


RESOLUTIONS OF RFSPECT EOR SISTER
		CAROLINE D. S. BROWN.
		Kind Words Cost Nothing.
	Whereas our Father in heaven has in His infi-
nite mercy removed from among us our worthy
and dearly loved Sister, Caroline D. S. Brown,
and,
	Whereas the long and intimate relations with
her as a faithful member of the Wellsville Relief
Society.—We deem it our duty as officers of said
Society that we record our appreciation.
	Therefore be it resolved, That her wisdom and
ability as a faithful member and her wise counsel
will be held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved, That the removal of such a life from
among our number leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all the members of
this Society and a serious loss to all who knew
her for the exemplary life she lived.
	Besolved, That we deeply sympathize with the
bereaved family and pray our Heavenly Father to
sustain and comfort them in the hour of their bit-
ter trials.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
recorded in the record book of the Relief Society
and a copy published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
and a copy handed to the bereaved family.
				SARA A. PARKER, Prest.
				MARY J. PARKER, Sec'y.


Eleanora Duse has bought the celebrated
Capponi palace in Italy for $120,000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN P TAPH.
BY LENA GRISWOLD BROWNE.
Within a country churchyard small,
Where faded rose-leaves gently fall,
There lies a low and narrow mound,
Which children softly gather round,
And strangers trace the well-worn path
To read this sweetest epitaph:
“Below, the body of a child we lay,
Of whom her playmates often say,
(A tender girl, to heart and memory dear)
’Twas easier to be good when she was here.”
I cannot tell how long has been her rest,
Since first the rose-leaves fell upon her breast,
Nor paint the picture of her form and face,
Or tell the name of this sweet child of grace;
I only read this witness, quaint and rare
“’Twas easier to be good when she was there”
As pilgrims in a strange and unknown way
Pause at some holy shrine to kneel and pray,
So here I bow, this prayer upon my lip—
“Grant me this seal of Christ’s discipleship,
That for some soul the way was made less
	drear,
And easier to be good, when I was here.”
O brother mine, with all thy wealth and power,
Which after all but answer one brief hour,
’Twere better that thou rest without a name.
Thy deeds unknown to all but household fame,
If but a child shall whisper o’er thy bier,
“’Twas easier to be good when he was here!”


[Column 1]
	OUR DARLING MARIAN.
	The memory of this beautiful little girl
will endure with those who knew and loved
her as long as life shall last; the sorrow of
her departure from among us has stricken
the breasts of those nearest and dearest in
the home of which she was one of the choic-
est treasures,
	The verses we use in connection with this
notice of Marian seem very appropriate to
her, She was good, and one of the choice
spirits sent from above to bless and happify
those unto whom she came, and never was
a child more welcome. Her parents and
grandparents almost idolized her as a baby.
Nothing was ever too good for Marian, and
she grew from her infancy to be a distinct-
ive personality in the home. She was very
attractive and made friends everywhere she
went; her grandfather made a sort of com-
panion of her from her babyhood, as long
as he lived. Marian must go to gather
roses in the flower garden with him, and
the rarest flowers were for her; in fact,
all her short life it seemed but natural that
she should have the best and choicest of
everything, and she grew to be companion-
able to be both old and young. She was
fond of elderly people and paid them def-
erence that was noticeable. A foreign lady
artist, advanced in years, who only knew
the child casually, said of her, “she was the
most respectful to age of any child she had
seen in America.” Marian was naturally
religious; she loved Sunday School and
Primary, she was gifted one might say with
music that amounted to a passion, was
studious at school, reveled in story books,
and was fond of play and exercise; never
still, an uncommon child, in many ways
quaint and original, and even dramatic.
We had not thought of her dying, perhaps
because she was rather delicate and had
lived through several serious illnesses.
	Marian Buchholz was the daughter of C.
W. and Isabel Sears Buchholz, and the
grandchild of Hon. S. W. and Isabel M.
Whitney Sears, and was the eldest of three
children. She was born at the residence of
her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Sears, in
East Waterloo, August 2, 1898. Her death
was the result of heart failure, while suffer-

[Column 2]
ing from quinsy and tonsilitis, and was very
sudden, She passed peacefully away at 8
o’clock on Saturday morning, December 14,
1907, aged nine years, four months and
twelve days. Her father was absent in
Bingham and had to receive the painful
news by telephone. The father’s family
reside in the east, so none of them could
be present at the funeral except a sister—
Miss Buchholz—who was here on a visit.
	The blow to the entire family was almost
unendurable, but great griefs, though seem-
ingly heart-breaking, have to be borne, and
though sorrows gather like great storms and
break upon us suddenly, they purify us, if
we will but submit to them, as the storms
purify the air. It is true that sorrow is
the noblest discipline; though our natures
shrink from it, it is none the less a dis-
cipline. Those who have suffered are like
those who know many languages—they
have learned to understand and to be under-
stood.
“There is no flock, however watched and tended,
	But one dead lamb is there;
There is no fireside, howso’er defended,
	But has one vacant chair.”
	Marian was dressed in the beautiful,
delicate things she loved, and in the
pure white casket looked angelic and fitted
for the divine presence. The last hymn
she sang for me, playing her own accom-
paniment on the piano, was, “O my Father”
now she has gone where she will join in
the sweetest music of the heavenly throng.
	The funeral services were held on Tues-
day, December 17, at the residence on 8th
East, in this city.
	Stake President Joseph S. Wells, uncle
of Mrs. Buchholz, presiding. The rooms
were literally embowered in flowers, gifts
of relatives and dear friends, as were all of
those who took part in the services. The
singers were H. G. Whitney, John D. Spen-
cer, Hattie Whitney Saville and Rettie Py-
per. The opening hymn was ‘‘Sweet and
low,” a touching prayer was offered by
Apostle Orson F. Whitney, and the speaker
was Elder Junius F. Wells, who drew in
the course of his remarks a vivid picture of
the Savior surrounded by the children
whom on one occasion. when visiting this
continent after His resurrection, He took in
His arms, one by one, and blessed. Elder
Wells portrayed the scene so clearly, that
one spiritually inclined could both see and
feel the transfiguration.
	Elder Horace S. Ensign sang as a solo
Marian’s favorite hymn, “O my Father.”
and Elder John Q. Cannon pronounced the
benediction. At the cemetery the singers
rendered “Beautiful Land of Somewhere,”
and Elder Joseph S. Wells dedicated the
grave, which was lined with lovely flowers
and covered afterwards with those sweet
mementoes of love—a last tribute of sincere
affection to one who dearly loved the beau-
tifui in nature and in art.		E. B. W.


R. S. REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Lib-
erty stake Relief Society convened in the
Second Ward meeting house, December
6, 1907, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., with Pres.
Annie S. Musser presiding. The soloists
for the morning session were Miss Claudia
Hoge and Miss Woolley.
	After the opening exercises, etc., Pres.
Musser made a few opening remarks and
feelingly welcomed the sisters, and very
favorable reports were made by the presi-
dents of the 9th, 31st and 33rd wards, after
which Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley deliv-
ered a lecture on Prayer, followed by Sister
Nibley, member of the General Board. El-
der Milando Pratt of the high council of
Liberty stake, and Sister Annie T. Hyde, of
the General Board, bore their testimony.
	After singing the doxology, and benedic-
tion by Sister Jessie West, conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Conference re-convened at 2 o’clock by
singing “O ye mountains high,” and prayer
by Sister Margaret Buchanan.
	Sister Harriet Harker, of the General
Board, gave us some timely instructions in
regard to our work, followed by a lecture on
Home, Wife and Mother, by Sister Emily
Davis, which was much enjoyed.
	Sister Annie K. Hardy, of the Ensign
stake, spoke to us for a short time, and
Miss Keddington rendered a solo.
	Elder Charles W. Symons, of the High
Council of Liberty stake, and Sister Peters,
of Salt Lake stake, urged us to be humble
and prayerful, and spoke words of comfort
to the Relief Society workers.
	A solo was then rendered by Mrs. Bessie
Browning.
	Pres. Musser made a few closing remarks,
thanking all who had helped to make our
conference a success.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Secretary.
		GRANITE STAKE.
	A program of unusual excellence char-
acterized the recent quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of Granite stake,
which was held in the stake taberna-
cle on December 10, 1907. We were fa-
vored with the presence of Sisters Bathshe-
ba W. Smith, Annie T. Hyde, Priscilla Jen-
nings, and Julina L. Smith, of the General
Board, and fourteen stake officers.
	An eloquent address on “The Blessings
of the Faithful” was given by Bishop J. D.
Cummings of Wilford ward. Two solos
were rendered by Sister Juliet C. Carter, and
some excellent remarks were made by some
of the visitors.
	The afternoon session was taken up by
the family of the late George A. Smith, in
continuation of the “Lives of Our Leaders.”
A biographical sketch of the life of George
A. Smith was read by his granddaughter,
Sister Irene Merrill Richards. Solo was
given by Sister Bessie Smith, Apostle John
Henry Smith paid an elegant tribute to the
memory of his father, said: Geo. A. Smith was
a worker—a man who was never overdone
or underdone in his duty; a man of energy
and sound judgment, absolutely fearless in
defending the right. An honest man, who
feared his God and none other, who believed
implicitly in the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and who loved the
work of God more than all else—in short, a
Latter-day Saint.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed with
many interesting reminiscences of her hus-
band’s life and labors, and Sister Julina
L. Smith also paid a tribute to his memory.
	The singing was very good, and was led
by a choir composed of Relief Society chor-
isters and singers of the different wards of
the stake, under the direction of the stake
chorister.
	The attendance was excellent and all
went home feeling repaid for coming. It was
a day long to be remembered by all who
were present. 
	LUCY M. GREEN, Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	January, 1908.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR 1908!
	HAIL TO THE GLAD NEW YEAR!
	The new year opens auspiciously in most
respects, the weather is fine, and with the
one exception the tightness of ready money
making work scare there seems to be no
drawback to prosperity; new schemes for the
upbuilding of the State and promoting of
home manufacture seem to be underway, or
in the air at least, and it is ardently hoped
and very desirable that the developments
anticipated, along these advantageous lines
may meet with success. At any rate it is
pleasant to believe in looking ahead that
Utah will become a great centre of Western
industrial civilization, and side by side with
material interests and growth, educational
progression should go hand in hand until
Utah stands second to none of the other,not
even older states, and equal in all desirable
respects to the greatest and most highly
cultured.
	There is good reason, why Utah should
stand first; and the people of the state should
maintain the dignity of the position that
brought them here into the Great Basin;
they came in search of a home for liberty,
for freedom of conscience as did the Pilgrims
who planted their feet in Plymouth and es-
tablished the commonwealth of the old Bay
State, and the leading men and women who
came hither were the lineal descendants of
those Pilgrims of New England. Massachus-
sets has always held her own in this regard
and has made that state acknowledged as
first; that’s why Boston is the “Hub” so
should Salt Lake City become the centre in
all the modern graces and phases of en-
lightenment.
	Maintaining a high standard of excellence
as a state in all that pertains, or savors of
the best in citizenship is one of the right
ways to uplift a community. The constitu-
tion of Utah gives the key to the best meas-
ures and regulations for so doing and the
people should see to it in electing legislators
that they select men and women, who will
stand for the best interests of the entire peo-
ple and take a broad view of questions at
issue, instead of being persuaded to give up
rights, that should be guarded with the ut-
most vigilance, because there were those
politicians who could seemingly buy them
soul and body with silver-tongued eloquence.
	Utah is bound to take the lead in many
ways, but there must be honorable upright
men to guide the helm of state, and they

[Column 2]
should be men, who will recognize the women
who have done so much in the past to make
Utah what it is today. There are industries
that women (pioneer women too) started in
Utah that could be made to yield untold
wealth were they fostered as they should be
(and as they should have been) and given
the encouragement in the way (and in other
ways) of bounty, which was for a time
granted. We refer more especially to the
silk industry let us hope this interest may
be revived and become one of the sources of
revenue that will furnish employment for
women and children in the home; and not
only that but a source of wealth to the state.
If the men acquainted with history would
read what silk has has done for France they
would recognize that there is “a gold mine
in silk.”
	In these days when there are so many
tourists visiting Utah, silk specimens are be-
ing asked for and there is really nothing to
show them worth while. It is regrettable
that so many have cut down their mulberry
trees and become discouraged in trying to
keep up the industry at all. Even were it
turned over altogether to machinery and a
silk factory established on a permanent basis,
the silk must be produced by raising cocoons
and the worms must have the leaves to feed
upon.
	In days gone by the Relief Society made
every exertion possible, through the influ-
ence of President Brigham Young, to start
this industry; thousands of mulberry trees
were planted and cocoons raised and silk
worms and creditable work seemed to be
established on a small scale to be sure and
most of it in the homes of the people.
	Utah silk at the Columbian Exposition
was the pride of the women who were on the
Board. In fact more credit was given Utah
women delegates for the silk displayed than
anything else sent from the Territory. In
view of what has been done in the past there
need be no fear or anxiety about results if
the industry could be taken up by men of
means and enterprise.
	The EXPONENT extends hearty New Year’s
Greeting to all its readers and patrons, and
hopes for success in the year now coming
forward to all enterprises and institutions for
the benefit of the community.
	Especially we are desirous that the women
of the state should be interested in the public
welfare, and to read and study the momen-
tous questions that lie at the foundation of
morality, law and order, justice and equity.
To become familiar with the meaning and
purpose of equal suffrage now a constituent-
part of their freedom and liberty, and not
neglect to use the privilege given them un-
derstandingly and make no mistakes, for
where much is given much is required.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or others who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years  ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


A PRETTY HOME WEDDING.

“How happy they! The happiest of their kind
Whom gentle fates unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings
	blend.”

	On Thursday morning, December 19,
1907, Richard Denton Andrew and Louise
Blanche Cannon, both of this city, were
united in marriage, President Joseph F.
Smith performing the ceremony in the Salt
Lake Temple at 11 a. m.
	The wedding reception was held at the
Cannon home at eight in the evening.
About two hundred invitations had been
issued and many guests responded by being
present. The rooms were artistically decor-
ated, the parlor with spring effect with pink
and white, the large bay window where the
bridal party stood was a complete bower of
apple blossoms in sprays and branches, a
trellis of the daintiest ribbons pink and
white and a lattice of green arching over
the recess. Carnations pink and white
about the room gave a dainty summer air
to the whole. The spacious dining room was
in Christmas red and green, twelve smaller
tables being arranged around a central one
having a large candelabra shaded in red for
a centrepiece, while sprays of holly were
strewn over the tables and bows of red rib-
bon completed the pretty and effective pic-
ture.
	The bride wore a gown of white net over
white silk, and carried a shower bouquet of
white roses, she appeared as dainty and
sweet as a slender white lily. The brides-
maids were her sister Miss Margarer Cannon
in pale pink and white and Miss Lucile
Wallace in pale blue and white, both the
girls carried sprays of pink and white carna-
tions. Mr. Bert Cooper was best man to
the young and bashful bridegroom. The
bridal couple received many beautiful and
some very elegant presents, for they were
great favorites with their numerous friends.
	The evening passed off very pleasantly
and when at the close of the festivities and
the guests were about to leave, the bride
threw her bouquet from the top of the stair-
case, there was considerable merriment over
the rush to be first to catch the bride roses.
Altogether the affair passed off like a charm.
	That the future life of this young couple
may be as happy and prosperous as their
fond parents and friends could wish, is the
desire and prayer of the writer.

“Love rules the court, the camp, the grove
And man below and saints above
For love is heaven, and heaven is love.”


NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIES.
	The stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety are reminded that the annual report for
the year 1907, from January 1 to December
31, should now be prepared. Please note
all changes in officers and new branches
organized, condition of grain in storage as
well as the amount on hand, the number of
buildings or parts of buildings, and rooms
in meeting houses, if owned by the Society.
Address General Secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Templeton Building, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
	P. S,—This notice applies to all the
countries where branches of the Society are
organized in missions at home or abroad,
in whatever part of the world.
	Millennial Star, Scandinavian, Swiss and
German and Dutch Latter-day Saint papers
please use this notice in the respective lan-
guages, so that it may be understood abroad.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			HUNTSVILLE R. S.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Huntsville, held at the Relief Society hall,
October 16, 1907. Conference convened at
10 o’clock a. m., Counselor Juliana Nielson
presiding. Singing. Prayer by Bishop
Renstrom.
	Emeline Bingham, president of the Mid-
dleton ward, reported the society as not very
flourishing on account of the small number
of sisters and sickness; said the sisters in
their ward were willing to work and do what
they could. President Shoop, Eden ward, gave
a good report of their society; said they held
meeting every week and had met with good
success; they were piecing quilts and doing
all they could to help the society. Presi-
dent Chard from Liberty ward felt pleased
to meet in conference with the sisters, they
had not held their meetings as she would
like on account of the people living so scat-
tered, but felt the busy time was over now
and that they would be able to hold their
meetings. Counselor Juliana Nielson of
Huntsville reported the society in good con-
dition, her greatest desire was that Sister
Eliza Tracy, the president, would soon gain
the strength she so much needed; that she
would soon be able to meet with her sisters
again; she felt the Lord was blessing Sister
Tracy in her affliction, and that He would
bless us in our affliction if we would do our
duty when we were able. Counselor Mary
Burrows felt pleased to be at the conference,
and felt the influence of the good spirit that
was present.
	Stake President Jane S. Richards felt
very pleased to be in our midst once more,
she felt that when we are sick if we have
been faithful in attending to our duties, that
the Lord would bless us in all our trials, en-
couraged the sisters to do their duty in every
respect so far as it is possible, and asked
the blessings of the Lord to be with each
and every one.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the last time
she was in Huntsville, and felt perfectly
satisfied with the sisters, was glad to hear
their humble testimony; she felt they were
trying to do their duty, spoke of the noble
work being done by the Relief Society
throughout the world, spoke of the work
Brother and Sister Penrose were accomplish-
ing in Europe, said they had organized 18
branches of the Relief Society and that the
good work would still continue.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff felt pleased
to meet with the sisters in Huntsville and
the neighboring wards; she was twenty years
of age when she first joined the Relief So-
ciety; said it had been taught to her since
her childhood, that her mother was indeed
a true Relief Society worker, although there
was none organized in her day, did not feel
to speak long on account of having a bad
cold.
	Sister Emily S. Richards felt pleased to
meet with all, felt that in such a beautiful
valley one could live their religion where all
was peace and quietude away from the noise
of city life, asked the Spirit of the Lord to
be with us.
	After singing and benediction meeting ad-
journed until 1 o’clock p. m.
	A banquet was spread for all sisters in the
beautiful hall upstairs.
	Conference continued at 1 o’clock p. m.
After usual opening exercises Katheren
Grow was called to act as one of the trustees
in the Relief Society.
	Bishop A. P. Renstrom felt pleased to

[Column 2]
meet with the sisters in their conference,
said that as a member of the Bishopric he
felt the society was performing a great and
a noble work and it would be impossible to
get along without the aid of the sisters.
	Counselor Charles S. S. Wood felt there
were many of the sisters that could and
would speak to us and give to us the spiritual
food necessary for us to receive, felt the sis-
ters were doing their duty and that they were
being blessed in their labors.
	Elder Angus McKay felt to rejoice, enjoyed
the good spirit that was present, he only
wished the brethren enjoyed the same spirit
as do the sisters, said they were full of love,
good will and sympathy, there was nothing
that would bring the spirit of the Gospel like
the love and good will that the sisters pos-
sessed.
	Sister Lona Schade was pleased to be
present, spoke of President Richards’ long
and earnest labors, and was glad to bear her
testimony to the truth of the work.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff was pleased
to hear the brothers speak words of encour-
agement to the sisters in regard to their
labors, said we could always show in our
actions love and kindness to each other;
urged the parents to have patience with their
boys and to teach them by love and kindness,
and she hoped the true love of the Gospel
would be in every heart.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt pleased to see a
full house, spoke of the pioneers at Winter
Quarters, the faithfulness of the Saints
and the gift of tongues, manifest at
that trying time; said how careful we
should be of the gifts of the Gospel and
of all sacred things.
	Eliza A. Tracy was sustained president
of the Relief Society of Huntsville, Juliana
Nielson first counselor, Mary Burrows sec-
ond counselor; Nicolena Sorensen, secretary;
Emma Tracy, assistant secretary; Grace Mc-
Farland, treasurer; Willimena McKay, Lona
Schade and Kathren Grow as trustees.
	President Richards felt it was time for us
to throw all frivolous things aside, spoke of
being kind to those that were afflicted and
to comfort the downcast and the sorrowful,
kindness costs nothing and is a great com-
fort to those who need it.
	Sister Emily S. Richards was thankful for
the privilege of saying a few words and for
the many gifts and blessings of the Gospel,
and asked that union and love might ever be
with us all as it is today.
	Sister Nellie Becraft felt pleased to be at
the conference and to bear her testimony to
all that had been said, spoke of our young
folks and the interest we should take in
them to keep them from going to places
where they ought not to go.
	Singing and then benediction offered by
Elder Stewart Eccles.
			EMMA TRACY, Asst. Sec’y.

			ALPINE.
	The regular quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine stake was held at
Pleasant Grove, Friday, October 18, 1907,
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Standring expressed her pleasure in
meeting her sisters in fall conference. Said,
Times are hastening on; are we keeping
up with the times and trying to do our duty
along with the brethren. There had been
much sickness amongst us lately, and some
of our presidents are laboring incessantly
among the sick, until some of them are
worn down and not able to attend to their

[Column 3]
legitimate duties. This should not be, there
are quite a number of sisters who can attend
to this matter, which should be directed by
the teachers. This would be satisfactory,
for the president would know that the sick
are well taken care of. This organization is
the greatest on earth among women, they
not only attend to the temporal wants of the
poor but look after the spiritual welfare. Bore
a faithful testimony, and thought it would
be good to have a spiritual meeting this
morning, that the sisters might bear testi-
mony of the work of the Lord and the good-
ness of God towards them.
	A majority of the local presidents bore
testimony and sxpressed their love of
Relief Society work and their determiation
to continue in their labors and to do their
duty. Also reported their several wards,
which are in good working order, with faith-
ful officers and teachers. A spirit of im-
provement seems to be in their midst, and
they are steadily advancing, showing an in-
crease in faith and good works and a gener-
al good feeling among officers and members,
all doing whatever is assigned to them.
	Singing—“Who are these arrayed in
white?”
	Brother James H. Clarke, of the stake
presidency, was pleased that the sisters were
loyal to the president of the Society, and
had spoken as they were moved upon by
the Holy Spirit. We should be loyal to our
Church and loyal to our families and friends.
If we are loyal to each other, the spirit will
grow with us and we will stand for every
pure principle of the Gospel and everything
that is good. If we do wrong we bring re-
proach upon each other and upon the
Church. Your hearts are in the work, and
if this influence were to be carried to others,
how much good would be effected. Strang-
ers watch us, and we should try to get them
to see the light; if we could convert them we
would have much cause for rejoicing—some-
times five minutes’ sermon will accomplish
much good. Was sorry to see little boys on
the street at night! The parents know not
what they are doing, but if they get into evil,
trouble may come. The Lord is with you,
sisters, and though your bodies may be
weak, He will bless you, and after a while
you will go on the other side, where there is
no weakness, but crowns of life will be laid
up for you, that fade not away. Cease not
to pray for your wayward children—don’t
give them up; they may have to suffer, but
the Lord will bring them back. Felt to ask
God’s blessing on the sisters and that His
Spirit may abide with them continually.
	Singing and benediction.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session, reassembled at 2
o’clock, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing.
	After the opening exercises, three more of
the presidents of wards reported, each branch
of the stake is in an encouraging condition,
they also bore testimony to the principles of
the Gospel and expressed the pleasure they
took in Relief Society work.
	R. S. Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley
felt when the sisters were telling of their
visits to the sick and poor they were fulfill-
ing the words of scripture. We believe in
doing to others as we would have others
do unto us. Was pleased with President
Standring’s instructions regarding the care
of the sick. Its not wisdom for the presi-
dents to take so much responsibility upon
themselves until they are worked down, for
they do more than their strength allows. We
as mothers know whether our children are


out on the streets or at home, and my sym-
pathy goes out to mothers who are troubled
over children. As mothers we are trying to 
do our very best, and we are blessed in having
children in our homes. May the spirit of
the Lord help us to guide our children.
There is no heaven for us without children,
and parents and friends. May we be able
to control our children that we may enjoy
peace and contentment.
	Stake Counselor Harriet Jacobs testified
to the truth of the Latter-day Gospel. We
are blessed in having been brought out of
the world unto the light of the Gospel. Sis-
ters, be wise when you go to sit up with the
sick—if possible, lie down and give the pa-
tients a chance to rest if they can. I have
suffered myself by having persons sit up
when they might as well have lain down.
You can give all the attention needed when
you are close at hand. We are told that
we will be judged by our thought. We
cannot help our thoughts coming, but we
are responsible for those thoughts remaining.
When we feel bowed down, let us sing the
songs of Zion, and we will feel lifted up. Let
us keep the Word of Wisdom, and let us en-
courage our young sisters to go to the tem-
ple when they enter the holy state of matri-
mony, Asked the Lord to bless us in our
endeavors to improve.
	President Stephen L. Chipman: The re-
ports of the wards are necessary. We learn
from each other, and a word may be dropped
that will benefit another. To be spiritually-
minded is life We must think of the things
of God. We must act along the lines of the
Gospel; the more we work, the more we en-
joy the spirit of the Gospel. The Relief
Society is one of the helps to assist in con-
verting souls and in caring for the sick and
downcast. It is necessary that we have
charity. We must bear with one another
where I am weak; perhaps you may be
strong, and where I am strong you may be
weak. Every organization in the Church is
necessary, and one cannot say to another,
We have no need of thee; all have been
placed there to help and make a perfect
completeness. God established this work
and this plan, and our organization aston-
shes the world. The Lord will bless us if
we are united and work in harmony togeth-
er. The sisters are more loving and spirit-
ual-minded than their brothers. It is in the
hearts of the sisters to reach out and help all
who are in need, Spoke of the movement
on foot to establish free libraries in the
small towns for the benefit of the boys and
attract them from the streets. May God
bless you, my sisters, may we never tire of
work in this cause.
	Sister Zina Chipman said we have had
truths enough today to reflect on for a long
time. We have no time to waste, and
hoped she would always be ready and will-
ing to do her duty in this Society.
	Meeting closed by singing and prayer by
Sister Emma Featherstone.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA J. T. RORERTS, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The homestead of John Alden and Pris-
cilla, at Duxbury, Mass., which was sold at
auction under foreclosure a few days ago,
was bought by the Alden Kindred Associa-
tion of America, and will be preserved as a
memorial. The house was built in 1653, and
has been inhabited by descendants of John
Alden and Priscilla ever since.


IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF FANNY L.
				HARPER.
	On the 16th of September, 1907, there passed
away from earth one of the noble spirits of this
dispensation, Sister Fanny L. Harper, beloved
wife of Prest. William T. Harper, of the Cassia
stake presidency. Sister Harper was the daugh-
ter of Chester and Rosanna Loveland, and was
born at Call’s Fort, Utah, January 9, 1863. In
1884, in connection with her husband: she moved
to Albion, Cassia county, Idaho, where in meek-
ness of spirit she won the respect and love of all
who associated with her. In the summer of 1900
her husband was called to the presidency of Cas-
sia stake of Zion, and it became necessary to
move to Oakley, the headquarters of the stake,
and from that time on she was an ever ac:ive
worker in the Relief society.
	She was president of the First Ward Society
until that ward was divided and the Fourth
Ward was created, at which time she was made
president of the new ward society, which position
she held until a month befere her death. All
were reluctant to release her, hoping and pray-
ing she would recover from a serious illness of
heart trouble that had overtaken her a year be-
fore. She had the greatest desire to live and
raise her children, and could not be reconciled
until a few days before she passed away, when
too weak to speak above a whisper, those at her
bedside overheard her beseeching her Father in
heaven for strength to do His will, and from that
time sweet peace pervaded their home? She was
the mother of ten children, six of whom survive
her, the eldest being on a mission to New Zealand.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from our midst our
much esteemed and beloved president, Fanny L.
Harper, who departed this life on the 16th of Sep-
tember, 1907; and
	Whereas, our intimate association with her in
the performance of her duty as a president of the
Relief Society of Oakley Fourth ward, has so en-
deared her to us, that we feel it a duty and a
pleasure to express our appreciation of her labors
in our Society and of her earnest endeavor to do
right,of her integrity and faithfulness in the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ.
	She was a devoted and loving helpmate to her
husband, a kind, tender and affectionate mother
to her children. Therefore,
	Be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Oakley Fourth Ward Relief Society, do most
deeply mourn the loss of so faithful a sister, but
are willing to acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in all things.
	Be it further resolved, that we extend our
heart felt sympathy to her husband and children
in their bereavement, and ask Him to bless and
comfort them in their hour of trouble and
	Be it further resolved, that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes, of our society, and a copy
given to the bereaved family of the deceased,and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Louisa H. Hale, Margery A. Price, Fortbilda
I. Funk, Committee.


[Column 1]
“WHY A WOMAN SHOULD DESIRE TO
			BE A MORMON.”
			(Concluded.)
	(Written by special request and read at
Womens’ Clubs in New York.)

	Parley P. Pratt brought to Kirtland the
Gospel and also the Book of Mormon and
presented these truths to Sidney Rigdon,
who was also a Campbellite, and con-
verted him to the Gospel, as also many
others, notably Eliza R. Snow and her
brother Lorenzo, who were also members
of the Campbellite faith. Sidney Rigdon
was afterwards Counselor to Joseph
Smith, the Prophet, and Parley P. Pratt
and Lorenzo Snow became members of
the Quorum of Twelve Apostles. Loren-
zo Snow was at the time of his death,
October, 1901, President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Eliza
R. Snow, his sister, was a gifted poet and
is alluded to by “Mormons” and Gentiles
as “Zion’s Poetess.”
	One of her hymns has become famous

[Column 2]
in many lands and is quoted and sung in
other churches besides our own. We
distributed with our program of our meet
ing in the Woman’s Congress, at the Col-
umbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893,-
hundreds of copies of this poem. I in-
sert it here as giving you an idea of our
belief in a pre-existence, it is styled— 

		AN INVOCATION.
	“O My Father, Thou that dwellest,
		In the high and glorious place;
	When shall I regain Thy presence
		And again behold Thy face?
	In Thy holy habitation,
		Did my spirit once reside?
	In my first primeval childhood
		Was I nurtured near Thy side?

	“For a wise and glorious purpose
		Thou hast placed me here on earth,
	And withheld the recollection
		Of my former friends and birth.
	Yet oftimes a secret something
		Whispered ‘You’re a stranger here;’
	And I felt that I had wandered
		From a more exalted sphere.

	“I had learned to call Thee Father
		Through the Spirit from on high;
	But, until the Key of Knowledge
		Was restored, I knew not why.
	In the heavens are parents single?
		No, the thought makes reason stare! 
	Truth is reason; truth eternal
		Tells me I’ve a mother there.

	“When f leave this frail existence,
		When I lay this mortal by
	Father, mother, may I meet you
		In your royal courts on high?
	Then at length when I’ve completed
		All you sent me forth to do
	With your mutual approbation
		Let me come and dwell with you.”

	There are many interesting incidents
connected with the women of the Church
that would answer the question asked in
the title of this paper, but it is not pos-
sible to elaborate in so little time, as we
must touch upon the marriage question
and the everlasting covenant.
	Marriage seems now the great question
of the age. At any rate, it is the woman’s
special subject, it is certainly one of the
reasons why a woman should desire to be
a Mormon. Marriage is a part of our re-
ligion, we believe in marriage, and mar-
riage for eternity as well as for time.
Every one who believes in the Bible must
know marriage was ordained of God; and
the first requirement made of Adam and
Eve, was to multiply and replenish the
earth, etc. It is useless to quote to intel-
ligent women that “Man is not without
the woman, nor the woman without the
man in the Lord.” The saying is pro-
verbial.
	We believe in the strictest morality
and purity of life in both men and women
equally. One standard of morals, not-
withstanding all that has been said of us
as a people to the contrary. Leaving all
that out of the question, we believe in
what is termed Celestial Marriage, the
ceremony to be performed by an Elder
in the Church holding the authority to
unite men and women in the bonds of
matrimony for time and all eternity; that
covenant we hold sacred; we expect not
only to dwell together here, but to dwell
together in the family relation hereafter
throughout all the endless ages of eter-
nity; and as we do not think there is any
other class of people on the earth holding
the priesthood of God, which is after the
order of Melchisedec except the Latter-
day Saints, if we expect to attain that ex-
altation in the eternal world, then we must


[Column 1]
abide in that faith called “Mormonism.”
	If you look at the seventh chapter of
Hebrews, you will perhaps understand
what I mean better. “For this Melchise-
dec, king of Salem, priest of the Most
High God, who met Abraham returning
from the slaughter of the kings and
blessed him. To whom also Abraham
gave a tenth part of all, first being by in-
terpretation King of Righteousness, and
after that also King of Salem, which is
King of Peace.”
	I cannot take time to enter further into
this order of marriage except to say that
through these covenants we hope to at-
tain to celestial glory in the world to
come, which hope encourages us to per-
severe that we may have our mansions,
not ethereal, but real, to dwell in, and
eventually attain to greater glory, going
on and on in greater progression, worlds
without end.
	That there is no stopping place for
those united thus, who magnify their
calling and make their election sure. In
1. Corinthians, chapter XV, verse 40:
“There are also celestial bodies and bod-
ies terrestrial; but the glory of the celes-
tial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial
is another.” In verse 41: “There is one
glory of the sun and another glory of the
moon, and another glory of the stars, for
one star differeth from another in glory.”
	Perhaps you may think from what I
have said that we go directly to the man-
sions of glory when we die, but I do not
mean that, but we pass from here to the
spirit world and await the morning of the
resurrection, when we shall all be judged
according to the deeds done in the body.
There are many passages in the Bible
which to me prove the resurrection when
our bodies which we have laid down will
be reunited with our spirits and we shall
be glorified and go on unto perfection.
	In this connection, perhaps, it would
be well to say one of the purposes of
building Temples is for sacred ordinances
pertaining to the dead. Do you recall
the passage of scripture, 1 Peter 3:19-20,
“By which also, (speaking of Christ) He
went and preached unto the spirits in
prison which sometime were disobedient,
when the long-suffering of God waited in
the days of Noah,” etc. Also refer to
1 Cor., 15, 29: “Else what shall they do
who are baptized for the dead, if the dead
rise not at all? Why are they then bap-
tized for the dead?”
	There is proof also in the prophecies
of the ancient prophets in regard to the
coming of Elijah. In the closing chapter
of the Old Testament, the Prophet Mala-
chi says’ “For behold the day cometh
that shall burn as an oven.” And in the
last two verses he says: “Behold, I will
send you Elijah the prophet, before the
coming of the great and dreadful day of
the Lord; and he shall turn the heart of
the fathers to the children, and the heart
of the children to their fathers, lest I
come and smite the earth with a curse.”
	We testify that Elijah came. He ap-
peared to Joseph the Seer and Oliver
Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, April 3,
1836, and he said to them, after repeating
the words of Malachi,” “The time has
fully come spoken by Malachi;” he also
said. “The keys of this dispensation are
committed into your hands.”
	As one evidence of the coming of Eli-
jah, the whole world, so to speak has
been gathering genealogical statistics for

[Column 2]
the last fifty years, proving conclusively
to the Latter-day Saints that the spirit of
Elijah is upon the people. though they
know it not. Family records have been
collected at great expense in some instan-
ces, and the labor has been arduous;
these records are of great value to our
people who are engaged in this work for
the dead. Many of those who have em-
braced the Gospel have been converted
through this one principle, that they
could do a vicarious work for those who
had died without a knowledge of the true
Gospel. Without our friends who have
passed away and not received the ordin-
ces of the Gospel, we could not be hap-
py. This is one of the most interesting
and astonishing principles revealed
through Joseph Smith, and I bear my
testimony to you that he was a prophet
of God, no man could have accomplished
what he did in so short a time except
through the divine teachings. If you
were to study Mormonism, the entire sub-
ject, you would see how much it contains
and one must acknowjedge, even though
prejudiced, that it is “a marvel and a
wonder.”
	Having said so much about the Gospel
and its principles, I desire now to tell
you of woman’s organized work in the
Church.
	The Relief Society, now incorporated
as the National Woman’s Relief Society
is, as you will know by its name, a chari-
table and philanthropic organization to
care for the needy, the sick, and unfor-
tunate, to minister spiritual consolation,
look after the morals of the community as
well and in a certain sense save souls.
	This great society has been and is a
wonderful power for good. more than I
can possibly tell you in a brief sketch.
It has been educational in the best sense
of the term to many thousands of women
gathered from different parts of the
world. It is this society that is affiliated
with the National Council of Women of
the United States. It has branches
wherever there are members of our
Church. It numbers more than 30,000
women, and is divided and subdivided in
such a way that it is comparatively easy
to reach all the members when necess-
sary. This Society was organized by
Joseph Smith himself in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842. We celebrated our jubi-
lee on the same date, 1892, all over the
world; that is in Europe and the islands
of the sea, Australia, Tasmania, New
South Wales, New Zealand, the Sand-
wich Islands, and also in Canada, and
Mexico as well as the United States. The
Society owns land, houses, granaries full
of wheat, and is not behind in spiritual
matters, faith is one of the foundation
principles of our religion, and we believe
in healing by the laying on of hands. The
sick are often healed by the administra-
tion of the sisters, but we take none of the
glory to ourselves, but give the Lord the
glory. This Society is presided over at
the head by five general officers and a
board of twenty-three women, including
the general officers. The officers are a
General President, two Vice-presidents, a
General Secretary and a General Treas-
urer. The society is divided into what
we term “stakes” an ecclesiastical term,
of these there are fifty-five, which also
have officers corresponding to the general
officers; besides these, there are missions
such as the branches on the islands and

[Column 3]
in foreign countries. In the stakes al-
luded to, there are organized branches
that have a similar board of officers, also
teachers who make regular house to
house visits. In this way, each society:
large or small, is aware of the condition
and circumstances of all in local districts.
These stakes are also visited at stated
times by members of the General Board,
and missionaries duly appointed.
	The young women also have an organ-
ization called the Young Ladies’ National
Mutual Improvement Association, also
affiliated with the National Council, which
is more for intellectual, moral and spirit-
ual development. Their work is broad
and extensive and far-reaching. It enters
into all the avenues of life, including
the home. The young men have a simi-
lar organization, and these two associa-
tions meet conjointly at regular intervals,
	Another large organization of our
Church is for children, both boys and
girls under fourteen years or thereabouts.
It is called the Primary Association. It is
much of it religious work, yet manners
and morals form a great part of the
teaching.
	Besides these, we have the Sunday
Schools, the public schools, high schools
and kindergartens, academies, colleges
and universities of learning.
	As you undoubtedly know, we have
women’s clubs, woman suffrage organ-
izations and Republican and Democratic
clubs and associations, and we are divided
on party lines like other people, both
Mormon and Gentile.
	Perhaps you will say after all that I
have not given a straightforward answer
to your question. I have endeavored to
have you understand what Mormonism
is, and how it appeals to me. Mormon
women are the happiest women in the
world, taken as a whole. I know them
intimately, in their homes, in their organ-
izations, in politics, in religion. We have
more actual freedom than most other
women, we are a very independent body
of women, we vote, we attend political
primaries and conventions and take part
in them, we have helped to make this
country, (some of us who were sort of
pioneers,) and we feel as if it belonged
to us, we are home-makers, we be-
lieve in homes, we are some of us col-
onizers, our young people marry and go
out into new lands, north and south and
bnild up new settlements somewhat as we
did when we came here, only they are
better supplied with what is needed.
	We have been and are trying to estab-
lish such institutions, educational, civil
and religious as will be a credit to our
great country. We are a patriotic peo-
ple. The Constitution of our country
and the Declaration of Independence are
sacred instruments to us. We have here
a society of the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion, and Daughters of the American
Revolution. There is a large number of
our people who are descendents of the
New England Puritans (myself among the
number). Joseph Smith, Brigham Young
Heber C. Kimball, and other Apostles
were of this lineage, born in Vermont.
Many other leaders of the Church were
born in other New England States, Wil-
ford Woodruff, President of the Church
at the time of the famous manifesto, pro-
hibiting the practice of plural marriage,
was from Connecticut. My husband,
Daniel H. Wells, was born in Trenton,


[Column 1]
New York, but of Puritan parentage.
Joseph F. Smith, the present President
of the Church, was born in Far West,
Missouri, while his father was in prison
for his religion, at the time of the terrible
persecution of the Saints when they were
driven at the peril of their lives into
Illinois. His father, Hyrum Smith, was
an older brother of Joseph Smith, and
was martyred hy his side, June 27, 1844,
in Carthage jail, Illinois. This may be
beside the subject, but my aim is to show
you who the Mormon people are, among
whom my lot is cast.
	I have known all the principal men and
women of the Church since 1843. I
knew Brigham Young intimately and all
his large family, have been closely asso-
ciated with them, and wish to say that he
was a noble, upright and honorable man,
a great leader a pioneer, knew how to
win the hearts of the people, lovely in his
family to wives and children. My hus-
band was his Counselor in the Church for
many years, until the death of Brigham
Young.
	I have traveled among this people and
have represented the women in Suffrage
Conventions and other assemblies of
women in the East, and in Washington
many times, have presented memorials in
behalf of ‘‘Mormon” women to members
of Congress, and Presidents of the United
States. I know whereof I speak when it
comes to “Mormon” women. I have pub-
lished the Woman’s Exponent for consid-
erably more than a quarter of a century,
and during that time have met and con-
versed with possibly thousands of people,
not of our faith; so that I know some-
thing of the women of the world, as well
as of the men. My work has been mostly
with women, except my political work,
and my great desire is and has been to
help women. As the General Secretary
of the National Woman’s Relief Society,
I have a grand opportunity of helpfulness
to women. I love my work and only
wish it were possible to do more. I stand
for the higher advancement of woman
the world over, for everything that will
better her condition, mentally, morally,
spiritually, temporally. I am aware of
the awakening of women the world over,
and I know its significance. Woman will
be redeemed from bondage, but she must
be taught how to help herself. This is
indeed the woman’s age, and I honor the
brave and noble women who have taken
the lead for the enfranchisement and
progress and higher education of women.
I know many of them personally.
	We have in our Church some of the
grandest types of women the world has
ever known. The president of our great
organizations, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
President of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, all these women are
over eighty, active and energetic, spirit-
ually and temporally. Mrs. Elmina S.
Taylor, president of the Y. L. N. M. I.
A., numbering 25,000 young ladies, Mrs.
Louie Felt, president of the Primary

[Column 2]
Association of 50,000 children, and these
are but a few of the women of our Church
(we know many hundreds) who stand for
purity, for truth and righteousness. The
women of the past whose names appeal
to me, who have endured the severe
trials and persecutions rise up before me
when I think of them, and I see how they
developed the most admirable traits of
character while passing through such ter-
rible ordeals, driven from their homes,
wanderers in the wilderness without food
or shelter, for the sake of their religious
faith. I speak their names with rever-
ence. There are many heroines in the
“Mormon” Church whose names will ring
down the ages. Their faith in God is as
strong as the everlasting hills, that can-
not be moved. They are self-sacrificing
and reverent women. They are trying to
live by the Golden Rule.
	Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Feb., 1903.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB.

From October 31, 1901 to October 31, 1906,
	with a brief history of the first decade.
	Lydia D. Alder historian.

	Mrs. E. B. Wells came in as Harriet
Martineau, the English writer of works
upon political economy, and others re-
markable for a Woman in that day; her
costume was of the finest black silk
velvet, such as she had heard her mother
say was worn at that period, for her moth-
er lived in the same period as Miss
Harriet Martineau.
	Next came Mrs. Lizzie S. Wilcox, who
gave the most humorous representation
of all, and strange to state though it was
so well done, the classical scholars of
modern date were not able to guess. She
had the tailor’s goose, patches in profu-
sion and wore a man’s coat, sat at the
table not exactly tailor-fashion, however,
and the fun she provoked was quite ex-
hilarating, as Sartor Resartus.
	After delicate refreshments were served
and music and chatting had charmed the
happy throng the Club evening of 1897
ended, amid this tastefully decorated
scene of autumn flowers. Under date of
May 11th, 1899, the Club discussed, and
entered into the brightness and better-
ment of the public schools, as an incen-
tive to the development of our children.
“The Kindergarten” was discussed and
approved for the schools, and the Club
was pledged to aid in this new feature in
our schools.
	Among the distinguished people enter-
tained by the Club, during its first de-
cade, are Miss Phebe Cousins, suffragist
also Miss Helen Ring, F. Marion Craw-
ford, Countess of Wachtmeister, who
spoke on Theosophy; Miss Elizabeth
Yates of Maine, just returned from China,
and others.
	The Club, during its first decade, kept

[Column 2]
abreast of the times. World questions
have been discussed, and world events
considered. Especially the trend of
events has been closely watched. Origi-
nal work of its members has improved,
both in poetry and literature. A notable
event of the first decade was the publi-
cation of the work “Musings and Mem-
ories” by the Club’s founder, Mrs. E. B.
Wells. For delicacy of thought and
touch of imagination it is the peer of any-
thing of its kind published in Utah, and
it is a book that will live, ever giving
pleasure to the reader. A little booklet,
“The Mormon Tabernacle Choir in Cali- 
fornia,” in verse, was issued by Lydia D.
Alder. In it we have a breath of Cali-
fornia, the sunny land of flowers and gold,
and an account of the choir’s triumphal
visit to that land in 1896.

	HISTORY OF FIVE YEARS.
	The tenth annual gathering, was unique 
and really bewildering, for we found our-
selves on this occasion among the ladies
of the White house, the first ladies of the 
land.
	Entertained by the retiring president,
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells, the members were
dressed in costume, each representing
some lady of the White House, each giv-
ing a short sketch of the lady represented.
Some choice musical selections were
played, and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read a 
history of the club covering in brief its
first decade.
	Mrs. F. S. Richards wore the costume
of Martha Washington previous to her
marriage to General George Washington.
Mrs. Doolan, Martha Washington at fifty-
seven years; E. B. Wells, Abigail Adams;
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells, Mrs. Hayes; Mrs,
John McVicker, Mrs. Fillmore; Mrs. E-
Jenson, Martha Pattin; Mrs. Margaret
Caine, Mrs. John Quincy Adams; Miss
Neff, Letitia C. Tyler; Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, Mrs. Andrew Johnson; Mrs. Grace
Anderson, Mrs. Ulysses S. Grant; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Martha Jefferson
Randolph; Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, Mrs.
Andrew Johnson; Mrs. Ella Hyde, Mrs.
Garfield; Mrs. Lizzie Shipp, Mrs. McKin-
ley.
	The officers elected at this meeting
were: President, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
First Vice President, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde;
Second Vice-President, Mrs. Grace L. 
Anderson; Treasurer, Mrs. R. H. Doolan;
Recording secretary, Emma H. Jenson
Corresponding Secretary, Ellis R. Shipp.
	The death of Mrs. Phebe C. Young, a
talented and valued member of the club,
occurred in December, 1901.
	At the November meeting Mrs. Anna
C. Widtsoe was received as a member of 
the club. At this meeting President Mrs.
Alder spoke of the death of Mrs. Sarah
Carmichael Williams, who for thirty
years had been out of her mind. Paid a
high tribute to her wonderful gift of
poetry, and spoke of the sad ending of 
such a brilliant, gifted writer. Mrs. E.
B. Wells also spoke ot the dead poetess.
	She was attired in the richest black
velvet, with real lace collar and cuffs,
as she laid in a casket of deepest black, a
fleshy, portly woman of over sixty years.
“Who are these arrayed in white?” how
vividly the words come to mind, here 
before the pall of death!
		(To be Continued.)


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money. TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol 36.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1908.  [MID-WINTER NUMBER.]			No. 7.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions................Emmeline B. Wells		49
Letter from California..Sarah Jenne Cannon		51
A Woman's Testimony..Mary Ann Nickerson		51
Relief Society Reports:—Oneida Stake.......		50
	Interesting Conference in Arizona.......		55
	Morgan Stake—Alpine Stake...............		55
In Memoriam..........................Nellie Becraft		52
Floating Down the Rhine...........................
	...........................Romania B. Penrose		53
In Memoriam.............................................		55
Resolutions of Respect.................................		55
Notes and News...........................................		56
Editorial:—An Artistic Booklet—Relief So-
	ciety Annual Day—The Jubilee Box...		52
	Jottings.............................................		52
	Editorial Note....................................		55
Poetry:—Rays..................................E. R. S.		49
	The Things That Count..Clarence Urmy	50
	To Aunt Em............Josephine Spencer		51


RAYS.
One single ray this Sabbath day
Across my dreary pathway fell.
It passed away in shadows grey
Before its glory I could tell.
So many days unto my gaze
The sky but cloud and mist hath shown,
Enwrapping earth in dark’ning haze—
Ah! even thought hath sombre grown.

’Tis hard to bear so small a share
Of life's great joys and sunny things,
To be oppressed with doubt and care,
While pleasures seem to flit on wings;
To yearn for power to learn each hour
Some useful lesson for this life,
While fame and wealth on others shower,
Without so much of weary strife.

’Tis sad to rove away from love,
Through what it seems fates stern decree,
To hear no more as oft before
Sweet frindship’s voices calling me
To feel the bliss of loving kiss
Upon my aching, throbbing brow—
The clasp of hands—Oh how I miss
A soothing presence with me now.

Yet while I pray for strength this day— 
Just as that beaming sunbeam fell: 
A brilliant ray lights up my way
The power of our God to tell;
A cheering thought by angels brought
Makes clear the troubled turbid stream,
A blessed truth divinely taught—
I know it is no fleeting dream!
 
For just so sure as I endure
In patience—cease to cry aloud—
My Father’s promises most pure
Dispels the fog, removes each cloud,
True joys reveal, which make me feel
That all I bear is grand and just;
Faith’s, bursting ray He will reveal,
Oh blessed balm of hope and trust!
							E. R. S<hipp>


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	To begin a series of remembrances of
eminent women, who have been conspicuous
in Church history, one must first mention
Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. This article is not to be life sketches
but, as stated, only personalities from the
writer’s point of view. That Lucy Smith

[Column 2]
was a strong character is self-evident from
her own picture. She was everywhere rec-
ognized among the Saints as a remarkable
personage. A woman whose soul shone out
of her eyes, and who uttered wise sayings.
It was considered a privilege to call upon
her, and one felt in her presence a sort of
unusual reverence. To me she seemed what 
she really was, the mother of great men.
She possessed a very good gift of language
to express her ideas, and did not hesitate to
speak somewhat authoritatively. The peo-
ple paid her homage wherever she went and
quoted her wise sayings. She impressed me
as a woman of great power and force of
character. She seemed to be by nature en-
dowed with the rare gifts of prophecy, bless-
ing the sisters and healing the sick, as
well as giving spiritual comfort and conso-
lation to the sorrowing and afflicted. Lucy
Smith was born in Gilson, Cheshire Co.,
New Hampshire, July 8, 1776, and died in
Nauvoo, Illinois, May 5, 1855.
	The wife of the Prophet Joseph must be
next in order of early Church women. She
was a woman of great prominence among
the people: large and well proportioned, of
splendid physique, dark complexion, with
piercing eyes that seemingly looked one
through; noble in appearance and bearing
and certainly favored of the Lord, who called
upon her to prepare the first Hymn Book of
the Latter-day Saints, and by revelation
styled her the “Elect Lady.”
	Sister Emma was benevolent and hospit-
able; she drew around her a large circle of
friends, who were like good comrades. She
was motherly in her nature to young people,
always had a houseful to entertain or be en-
tertained. She was very high-spirited and
the brethren and sisters paid her great re-
spect. Emma was a great solace to her hus-
band in all his persecutions and the severe
ordeals through which he passed; she was
always ready to encourage and comfort him,
devoted to his interests, and was constantly
by him whenever it was possible. She was
a queen in her home, so to speak, and be-
loved by the people, who were many of them
indebted to her for favors and kindnesses.
	Emma Smith was fond of horses and
could manage them well in riding or driv-
ing. Many can recall seeing her mounted
on horseback beside her husband in military
parade and a grander couple could nowhere
be found. She always dressed becomingly,
and a riding costume showed off her shapely
figure to the best advantage. She was a
woman of commanding presence and in her
palmy days, a brilliant conversationalist.
Born in Harmony, Susquehanna, Co., Penn.,
July 10, 1804; died in Nauvoo, Illinois, April
30, 1879.
	It is difficult to choose of many great
women who should be mentioned next, but
to me it seems most in keeping with the
idea I have in writing this series, to take
Elizabeth Ann Whitney. She, too, like
Lucy and Emma Smith, stands somewhat
aloof from many grand woman of her day,
because of her great spirituality and attrac-
tive personality, a woman possessed of rare
charms in voice and manner. A natural
lady with the intuition and tactfulness that

[Column 3]
surpass accomplishments or adornments of
person. Sister Whitney was a notable char-
acter in Church affairs, a woman who in-
spired confidence, and both brethren and
sisters came to her for counsel and com-
fort.
	In the days of Kirtland she gave much
to the poorer Saints in such a delicate way
as not to offend the most sensitive. She
was intimately associated with Sister
Emma, of whom she always spoke in the
highest terms of praise for her good works.
	Sister Whitney excelled in singing the
songs of Zion, her voice was full of melody,
rich in tone, and she warbled like a bird
on the high notes.
	She was frequently alluded to by her
friends in the early days, as the “Mormon”
nightingale; her voice was sweet and tender
and true, exquisitely so, and though not a
woman of style and fashion, she was a
graceful dancer of the old-type, and a
woman who shone in a ball room or large
gathering of what is termed the best society;
and was never at a loss or ill at ease in any
company; at all times womanly and attrac-
tive, what she did and what she said was
the “proper” thing, A woman who could
grace a lowly cottage or a splendid man-
sion, yet spiritual in the finest sense of the
word and in so beautiful a way that it char-
acterized her whole life and shed around
her a radiant atmosphere of love and peace.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney was born in Derby,
New Haven Co., Conn., December 26, 1800.
Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, February 1,
1882.
	The names of two or three great women
are often associated together, and in early
days in Utah, Sister Whitney and Sister
Eliza were spoken of almost unavoidably, as
it were, in the same breath; yet they were
very unlike, Sister Eliza Roxie Snow was a
most remarkable character, as were many of
the pioneer women in the Church of Latter-
day Saints, but she was something more
than even that. She was a woman of fine edu-
cation and attainments intellectually, and
gifted in various ways with unusual ability.
A very pattern of neatness and order in all
pertaining to herself and her work,one of the
“old school” of proper manners and behav-
ior.
	Everything she did was of the best, wheth-
er it was braiding straw, making lace, em-
broidering lace, muslin or silk, sewing, knit-
ting and mending, all must be done to per-
fection, and she always used the finest ma-
terial possible to procure. Punctuality was
one of her virtues, and she insisted upon it
in others; industrious beyond her physical
strength, and economical in all matters,
whether of money, time or means; she was a
very early riser, often remarking, “one hour
in the morning is worth two in the evening.”
Sister Eliza was the Puritan type in the ex-
treme; religious in temperament and by in-
heritance. No half-way measures, “Hew
to the line and to the plummet” with her
—an old saying originated from the script-
ure quotation, “Judgment also will I lay to
the line and righteousness to the plummet”
(Isaiah 28, 17). Her endurance of fatigue
in traveling, or of all kinds of hardship was


[Column 1]
wonderful, her courage in danger and passing
through trials and difficulties, never wavered,
no matter how insurmmountable the obsta-
cles to be overcome might appear; she was
always equal to every emergency whatever
the occasion called for or required.
	Sister Eliza was so highly gifted in poetic
verse and composition, her language so elo-
quent, and subjects so lofty, that she deserv-
edly won the beautiful title of “Zion’s Poe-
less,” and as such stands pre-eminent among
this people. Her poetic style has been said
to be Hebraic, and she herself was not un-
like the Jewish type in appearance. She
possessed an innate refinement, and delicacy
of feeling and gentility of manner that fitted
her for any society even among royalty: in
conversation she chose the loftiest themes
when she was in company with congenial
spirits who loved sacred subjects.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow was a born leader,
and one might say a general, a commander,
and was also a very efficient organizer of
which her work along those lines is proof
positive and needs no verifying, Her extra-
ordinary powers and strength of character
and firmly established convictions of the
principles of the Gospel gave her the confi-
dence and assurance, if one may use the
term, to act independently in places, and at
times, when other women would have falter-
ed or hesitated to undertake such heroic ef-
forts. That she was a woman of destiny the
writer has no doubt. Her great reverence for
the priesthood and absolute devotion to the
principles of the Everlasting Gospel amount-
ed to a consecration of all her time, talents,
and life itself upon the altar of her faith.
	Born in Becket Berkshire Co., Mass.,
Jan. 21, 1804. Died in Salt Lake City,
Utah, December 5, 1887.
	One more woman, whose name was once
known throughout all Israel, and who in all
the womanly qualities that make up the sum
of human happiness in home life and who
should be mentioned, among the very first
of the grand and noble sisterhood of early
days in the Church, is Vilate Murray Kim-
ball. She was a woman primarily devoted
to home and its best interests, but with a
heart large and tender enough to feel for the
woes of all within the sphere of her activi-
ities; a woman of unbounded charity, not
only for the needy and unfortunate, but for
the weak and erring. She never failed to
minister to the distressed whether temporal
or spiritual help was needed, and seemingly
she always had the necessary supplies. She
was in every sense of the word the “Lady
Bountiful.” Her intense sympathy with all
suffering and compassion for the unfortun-
ate was in constant exercise; and the calls
made upon her time and strength as well as
to furnish actual provision in times of scar-
city, can never be estimated, even by those
who knew her best. She was so modest
and discreet withal, that only those who were
near her, ever comprehended, the almost
superhuman efforts she made to alleviate
distress, and comfort the sorrowing and
broken hearted, especially those bereft of
loved ones, widows and orphan children.
	Sister Vilate Kimball was a true mother
in Israel in its broadest and best sense. She
was intensely devotional and religious in
character, and her faith was founded upon
“the rock of ages.” Naturally a woman
gifted intellectually, but though she was
poetic in temperament and sentimental, her
life was too full of activity in the routine of
family and friends, as well as those who
clung to her for the positive needs of every-

[Column 2]
day life, that she had no moments to herself
even to spare for what her nature craved. Her
letters to her husband, Heber C. Kimball,
when away from home are rich in the lang-
uage of the heart and reveal the gift of poesy,
latent in her soul.
	Thinking of “Aunt Vilate” as I knew her
should describe her as a bearer of burdens,
laden down with the burdens of others.
	Sister Vilate Kimball was beautiful, tall
and graceful, with fair complexion and fine
hair that lay in soft waves about her fore-
head giving a touch of elegance to her shape-
ly head. She fed the hungry, she clothed
the needy, she comforted her husband in all
his trials throughout his long public career.
A model, housekeeper and homemaker, a
loyal friend to women, ready to hear their
grievances and keep sacredly their confiden-
ces. She was a strength to the daughters of
Zion in her own household, and elsewhere.
If of any woman we may use the saying of
Solomon in Proverbs xxxi. chapter and 29th
verse we may say it of Vilate Murray Kim-
ball “Many daughters haye done virtuously
but thou excellest them all.”
	Born in Florida, Montgomery Co., New
York, June 1, 1806. Died in Salt Lake City,
October 22, 1867.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE THINGS THAT COUNT.
BY CLARENCE URMY.

Not what we have, but what we use;
Not what we see, but what we choose—
These are the things that mar or bless
The sum of human happiness.

The things near by, not things afar:
Not what we seem, but what we are—
These are the things that make or break,
That gives the heart its joy or ache.

Not what seems fair, but what is true;
Not what we dream, but good we do—
These are the things that shine like gems,
Like stars, in Fortune’s diadems.

Not as we take, but as we give;
Not as we pray, but as we live—
These are the things that make for peace,
Both now and after Time shall cease.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of Oneida Stake
convened Nov. 2, 1907, at Preston. First
session was an officer’s meeting. Devotion-
al exercises were held with the priesthood
and other Stake officers. When convened
for regular work President Louisa B. Ben-
son presided.
	First Counselor Hannah Mickleson re-
ported the General Relief Society Confer-
ence held in Salt Lake October 3, 1907.
	Local officers were asked to report briefly
on Unity and Mothers’ Work and means
adopted to replenish treasuries.
	Franklin ward had sent a written report
showing unity, success in Mother’s Work,
plenty of means on hand, by donations.
	Clifton reported meetings held monthly,
not much accomplished yet in Mother’s
Work, hoped from now on to have better
success. A fair had been held to remuner-
ate the treasury, unity existed. Cedar-
ville meetings had not been held reg-
ularly—otherwise doing well, donations for
sufficient means.
	Cherryville reported as just having been
organized.
	Fairview sisters were united, much good
resulting from Mothers’ Work, plenty of

[Column 2]
means on hand, but contemplated a bazar
for the winter Glendale reported unity and
love, Mother’s Work getting well started,
means gathered by donation. Mapleton, no
officers present prepared to report. Mink
Creek reported good being accomplished in
Mother’s Work, unity existing and means
being raised by a fair, also by donation.
Oxford reported unity, means gathered by
donation, had also held a fair, Mothers’
Work somewhat neglected but doing better
at present. Preston first ward reported
unity, means gathered by donation, Moth-
ers’ Work accomplishing much good, attend-
ance not as good as usual.
	Preston third and fourth wards gave simi-
lar reports. Riverdale reported that their
work was not as good as they would like.
Rule had been adopted for each one to do-
nate 10cts at the close of meeting held first
week in each month.
	Swan Lake had just been reorganized.
	Treasureton reported few in number but
good work being done; no poor; had pur-
chased sacrament service and carpet for
meeting house.
	Weston not fully organized due to death,
unity existed, Mothers’ Work doing much
good, means gathered by donation, quilts on
hand. Whitney reported unity, success in
Mothers’ Work, means gathered by dona-
tion.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson gave a talk
on Morality and the care of children, which
was much enjoyed by all.
	Instructions regarding teachers and the
use of means were given by President Ben-
son, also asked secretaries to be prompt with
their reports.
	Afternoon session, President Louisa B.
Benson presiding. Singing by Fairview
choir. Prayer, singing and other exercises.
	The Relief Society Stake report was given
by President Benson. All parts fully organ-
zed, excepting Weston, where death had
claimed the President, but work was being
well cared for. Much good was being done
by the several organizations and stake offic-
ers were encouraged at all being willing to
respond to every call, although better work
was still hoped for.
	A talk on what it takes to make a good
Relief Society was given by Esther Rogers,
president of first ward of Preston. Solo “I’ll
do what you want me to do, dear Lord,”
Serge B. Benson.
	Last poem of Brother H. W. Naisbitt en-
titled “Mother,” read from the Exponent by
Mrs. Junius Jensen. Sister Mary Hawkes
spoke on the power of Relief Society work,
emphasizing Mothers’ Work. A sketch of
the life of Harriet Henderson of Clifton was
read by the secretary. A quartette was then
rendered by Patterson, Griffith and Co.,
President Parkinson addressed the confer-
ence on the the subject of “Motherhood.”
Encouraged and blessed the mothers. In-
strumental music George Dalley,
	A volume of blessings given by President
Bathsheba Smith to her Relief Society sis-
ters was read by the secretary.
	Choir and congregation sang “Guide us, 
O Thou Great Jehovah.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction Presi-
dent Chas. D. Goslind.
				LINDA N. BENSON, Rec. Sec.


The French Parliament considered the
question of woman suffrage on February 4th.
It is reported that 50,000 women had peti-
tioned for the ballot.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TQ AUNT EM.
There’s a poet who tells in delectable verse
Of the things we might part with and not be the
	worse
For the missing—his list, running through the
	whole range
Of pleasures and treasures of travels and change,
To end with a neat little rhyme of repining, 
That whatever we part with—it can’t be our din-
	ing.
And his thought gave me thought inspiration to-
	day,
For the tribute we’ve gathered together to pay,
To our dear guest of honor, with heart and with
	lip,
In the viands we eat and the liquids we sip.

But not dining nor wining is that I must choose,
As the object we’d miss most, if once we should
	lose,
Nor of treasures of art, nor of gold, nor of gem,—
Its name in our hearts is just known as “Aunt
	Em.”
For who in the years that have passed o’er us all
Cannot in their vista her image recall?
Through scenes that have gladdened or saddened
	the days
Since the valley first dawned on the pioneers’
	gaze
Through all their privation and hardship her
	hand
Was foremost to toil for the good of the land;
In the struggle for woman’s high honor alway
Her name as a beacon has lighted the way.

And over the murk of the battle has hung
Framed in laurels of pen, and of deed and of
	tongue.
And not only the pathway of note and renown
Her footsteps have trodden—but better adown
The still paths of sympathy sewn with sore hearts,
They have wandered, full oft giving balm to their
	smarts.
While her word has met young aspiration’s meek
	voicing
With hope, inspiration and meed of rejoicing;
There are few of us here but have owed her some
	measure,
Of hope, help or praise in our duty or pleasure.

So I say in the lilt of the poet I borrow
(And I hope his dark shade may not brood here
	to sorrow,
At the poor imitation I make of his ditty)
That I cannot conceive how our state or our city,
Our banquet halls, offices, homes or the street—
Could ever seem quite to our senses complete.
Could we not on the cheering reflection rely.
That somewhere or other Aunt Em we should
	spy!
And since, as we know, she is barely nineteen,
For years yet to come she will move in the
	scene—
Three keen-witted years having chalked out the
	day
Of her birth; that among us she longer might
	stay.

So here’s to Aunt Em—with the hearts of the
	Club
In the liquid we drink when our glasses we rub.
May the leap-years increase,—and the almanac
	keep
A trick up its sleeve, that old Time may not reap
Her life with its scythe, till he reaches the end
Of his flight—and in all of the years she may
	spend
May the Lord hold her fast in a loving caress
As we do—that’s one meaning, you know, of the
	“Press.”
					JOSEPNINE SPENCER,
				(republished from Feb. 1907).


[Column 1]
		LETTER FROM CALIFORNIA.

						Feb. 19, 1908.
My Dear Aunt Em Wells:

	If you have had time to think of me at all
you have probably wondered why I have
not written according to promise. As you

[Column 2]
know, my trip here was not altogether for
sight-seeing, and pleasure; though my
friends wish me to have a good time and
are doing all they can to have me enjoy
myself. It rained most of the time for three
weeks, but for a week now the weather has
been delightful. Mrs. Garnett, a lady I
met three years ago, took me to the Presi-
dia the other day. We went to the old
fortress built on the point, where the waters
of the Pacific and the bay meet. It was
indeed a grand sight, one never to be for-
gotten. It was the Golden Gate where the
fleet will pass through. There is a beauti-
ful reservation of sixteen hundred acres. My
friend asked me how far I thought we had
walked. I told her about a hundred miles.
We kept seeing things that were only a little
farther, you know. Another friend, a Mrs.
Eddy, took me to Golden Gate Park last
week. I enjoyed crossing the Bay, as I al-
ways do, very much indeed. The gulls
seem to have multiplied wonderfully since
my last visit. We took a car on the other
side and went on California St. through part
of the earthquake district, We passed the
place where once stood the elegant home of
Mrs. Stanford. The foundation remains
and some shrubbery and stone steps, that is
all. It reminded me of a deserted cemetery.
Many places we passed we saw tall chim-
neys standing, and the stone steps that once
led up to some grand mansion. As we were
on the cars we only caught a glimpse of
what there was to see. But my friend
pointed out the places of interest and is a
good hand to take charge of such a trip.
We went to the museum and conservatory.
The lawns are very beautiful, though only a
few months ago many refugees camped
there. No place in the park can you see the
unsightly sign “Keep off the grass.” We
had lunch on the part called the children’s
playground. Going back to the ferry we
took another street. I do not think the
papers ever told a tenth as bad as it really
was, for now, after two years and the won-
derful amount of work that has been done,
it looks dreadful. And I have heard more
of that terrible calamity than I ever saw in
the papers. Of course I had to go to the
Cliff house (or where it used to be) and
take a fond look at the ocean, Dear Sister
Sumner took me over to Oakland to church
once and to Relief Society once. Consider-
ing the members of the society, there was a
better attendance than at the general meet-
ing. There was a Mrs. Douglas at the soci-
ety meeting. She is a member of the re-
organized church, and I imagine a very
prominent one too. She called us sisters and
thinks it will not be long till we are united
with them. She bore a strong testimony to
the mission of Joseph Smith and the Book
of Mormon, and rejoices that the Smiths
have come to their own. She is thankful
that Joseph F. is at the head. I also bore
my testimony to the great work and to the
wise leaders the Church has always had.
Considering everything, the society is doing
as well as we could expect. Well I shall
have to stop sometime, and it might as well
be now. Give my love to Sister Smith and
the members of the board who are with you.

		Yours with much love,
				SARAH JENNE CANNON.

	P. S. I am ashamed of this letter, but
the neighbors on each side of me are play-
ing on different instruments and if I wait it
is not likely to be better.
							JENNE.


A WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.
Salina, Utah.
	Seeing a piece in the Exponent that asked
for the names of any who belonged to the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, will say that I be-
longed to that society.
	The first meeting I attended the prophet
was present and talked to us. He told us
what to do. We were not only to look after
the poor but he wanted us to canvas every
house for there was sin and false teaching
in our midst. “For this is a day of trial
and we shall be tried as gold is tried seven
times in the fire.”
	There was John C. Bennett and Law and
the Higbees and others all trying to lead the
youth away, and we found it so. They
were holding secret meetings in all parts of
the city, saying it was the prophet’s teach-
ings.
	When I think of being there in those days
I cannot believe myself. Brother Joseph,
the prophet, was tried to the quick. He
taught us to look after the sick, and wanted
the poor looked after, and if they were able
to work, to give them work and pay them
for it, and not buy material and make it up
for them, if they were able to do the
work themselves. He said the poor we
will always have with us and it was not our
business to know how they came to be poor.
We were told to do our duties and we would
be blessed. He said it was no charity to do
for those who could do for themselves. We
were not to neglect the sick or any one in
distress.
	The prophet was a noble-minded man. I
would know his voice in the hour of mid-
night. I was at the last public meeting
that he ever preached and the rain poured
down, He said if it rained pitchforks, tines
downward he would preach, his enemies had
said that he should never preach again, and
he wanted to make them false prophets.
This meeting was held in a grove a few days
before his death.
	I was one of the sick that the prophet
visited on the banks of the river.
	I was one of the women in the battle of
Nauvoo. I passed through many scenes,
and still I am here for a wise purpose, I
hope. I want to do all the good I can and
as little harm as possible.
	I was born in Pennsylvania Sept. 5th,
1822. Married to Levi Nickersen May 10th,
1840, in Nauvoo. Came to Utah in 1850.
	In 1852 my husband was called on a mis-
sion. His name was overlooked. He went
to the president’s office aud was told if the
boys who went with the mail were going, he
(my husband) could go, but he could not
go alone. On the first of November they
started with twenty ponies.
	When they arrived at Sweet Water a bliz-
zard came and scattered their ponies. The
men hunted for their ponies and found
three. During the hunt for the ponies one
of the men got lost. The others hunted for
him, but were unsuccessful, as they were so
badly frozen themselves that they moved on.
When they reached the Bluff their feet were
so badly frozen that the bones were scraped.
My husband was unable to travel, so he
worked in a wagon shop. On December 15,
1853, he was found dead in the shop. He
was born in Pennsylvania, 1814.
	I remain as ever faithful and true to this
work and to this people. I sincerely know
it is true, and bear witness to the same.
May I ever prove faithful, is my prayer.
MARY ANN NICKERSON.


[Column 1]
52										Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY - FEBRUARY, 1908.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or any who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL DAY.

	The seventeenth of March will soon be
here and the Relief Society in all the world
will be celebrating the memorable occasion,
The Sixty-sixth anniversary should be an oc-
casion of much rejoicing and no doubt will
be, The very fact of its being organized
before any such movement for women had
been made anywhere, by any other people
or community should stand out as a way-
mark in favor of the Church of which we
are members. It should demonstrate clear-
ly to all honest hearted people, women
especially, that it was established by divine
revelation. The Prophet Joseph Smith,
without any pattern to follow, called women
and set them apart by authority given him
from the Lord.
	The women of Zion are favored of the
Lord above any women elsewhere, and they
should realize and appreciate it, and culti-
vate the gifts and blessings they are in pos-
session of, and thus seek to magnify their
calling. Think of the consecrated work
given into their hands, to minister to each
other, to edify and instruct, to study the
Bible and other sacred books, to obtain
knowledge through prayer by the aid of the
Holy Spirit.
	Taking the advantages of the work in the
broadest and highest sense, there is no limit
to the attainment of excellence in wisdom
and understanding. The active work of the
teachers in the organizations, is the work
our Satior loved to do when he tabernacled
in the flesh. He ministered to the meek
and lowly, the sick and distressed, in fact,
“He went about doing good.” Our sisters


have this privilege and they have joy in their
labors. They do not spare themselves, they
are unselfish, they are self sacrificing. Their
work cannot be estimated, they are un-
doubtedly fed with the bread of life, and
that buoys them up in times of need when
otherwise their strength might fail them.
	There are no words of commendation or
praise too good or too much for the sisters of
the Relief Society, who do these things in
love and with singleness of heart. Well
might they be called sisters of mercy. It is
ardently desired that this day be kept for
such enjoyment and festivities as seem ap-
propriate and fitting to those who preside.
it is sometimes thought that little has been
accomplished by the society during so many
years, but that is a mistaken idea; hundreds
and thousands have been fed, have been
ministered to in various ways. These acts
of love, deeds of kindness are not apparent
in the same way as building houses and
founding libraries and [-]aving grain, but
these count in the books of the angels, and
cannot we comprehend that our Father who
will not let a sparrow fall without His
notice, knows every little deed of kindness or
even a cup of cold water given in His name
to [-]he suffering ones.
	And so we say again, let all women rejoice
and give thanks on this day, whether in
feasting or in dancing, and remember espec-
ally those who are sick or in sorrow or in
trouble, and those who are kept at home
because of this or that, minister to them,
cheer and comfort them, and thus make
your own happiness more full and com-
plete.


THE JUBILEE BOX.

	Perhaps it is not generally known that
the Relief Society has deposited in the His-
torian’s Offce in this city a Jubilee Box. It
would be well to remind the younger gener-
ation from time to time of the fact, that
they may not let it remain unopened at the
proper date. This box is safely sealed and
is to be opened in April, 1930, by the gen-
eral secretary of the Relief Society. The
box contains poems, miscellaneous papers,
historical manuscripts and pictures, also a
letter addressed to the oldest female de-
scendant then living of the person who pre-
pared the respective package.
	This jubilee box was the original idea of
Sarah M. Kimball, who had been elected
secretary of the General Relief Society June
19, 1880. It will be remembered that al-
though the Jubilee Conference of the Church
was held in April, 1880, yet the Jubilee cele-
bration was on the 24th of July, 1880.
	We are familiar with the particulars con-
cerning the box, as much of the preparatory
work was done in the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT in the old Council House, on the
famous corner of the block where the Dese-
ret News building now stands, and the
writer was one of those who personally
helped with the work. The inspiration,
came to Sister Kimball during the celebra-
tion, or about that time, July, 1880, but
the box was not deposited until April, 1881,
as it took some time to get the matter ready
and have it properly understood.
	There is also a similar box deposited in
Provo by Sister Margaret T. Smoot; that
box contains besides Relief Society matter
the names of each officer and member of
the Primary Associations in Utah County.
This part of the work was done by Sister
Zina Young Williams (now Card) and her


son Sterling Williams. Sister Zina andher
son Sterling may very likely be living in
1930 when the box is to be opened.
	If there are any sisters who see this notice
and recall having prepared a package for the
Jubilee Box, the editor of this paper desires
the name and present address of such per-
sons for publication, and to keep on record
for future use.


JOTTINGS.

	With the withdrawal of winterand opening
of spring, one may look for many changes,
not only atmospheric, but in the political
and commercial elements of society and the
world at large. Already one hears of ru-
mors of the campaigns about to be launched.
There are several great men being talked of
as candidates for the Presidency of the
United States, and there are strong argu-
ments made in print why certain men
should be elected, and yet it would appear
looking all around that the majority of the 
people favor the re-election of Theo-
dore Roosevelt. Those, who admire
his methods and his administration rank
him in ability and fearlessness to Abraham
Lincoln, or his equal in statesmanship. No
doubt there will be great excitement during
the present year, as there has invariably
been heretofore, the year of the presidential
election, both parties are pretty well de-
termined to win, and the people who are
not taking an active part will watch with
great interest. There is every reason to
presume that the government of the United
States will be strong enough to maintain the
position it holds among the nations of the
world even if conditions were to change
somewhat. For some years there has been
a time of general prosperity, and the country
is even now in comparatively good circum-
stances, although there have been a few
exposures brought to light that were un-
pleasant for the participants.
	Let us hope no great calamity may befall
our beloved country, and that the coming
year may be one of plenty and prosperity,
and success for the grand government under
which the people have every right possible
for their permanent happiness. The statis-
tics given of fewer saloons are encourag-
ing in the sense of temperance, and even of
prohibition in many states, and women are
doing brave and heroic work along these
lines of moral reform, even though they
have not yet (only in four states) been
given the ballot.


IN MEMORIAM.
		HARRIET CANFIELD BROWN,

The Angel Death passed through our midst one
		day,
	In quest of noblest soul, whom, he might send
For special purpose to the Father’s throne,
	And lo! he took Aunt Hattie, our dear friend.
Not strange that he should choose so rare a
		gem,
	Not strange the call, “The Lord hath need of
		thee.”
’Twas stranger that she stayed with us so long,
	So good, so pure, so angel-like was she,
A very halo round about her seemed;
	No evil e’er found place within her heart
The slanderer in her presence stood as mute,
	Awed by her power, which was of heaven a
		part.
Of trial, sorrow, persecution sore.
	Full share had she, yet bravely stood the test,
Of battles quiet fought she gave no sign.
	Brave conqueror thou well hast earned thy
		rest.


[Column 1]
	Quietly and peacefully, on December 27,
1907, at 9:10 a. m., the spirit of Sister Har-
riet Canfield Brown took its flight across the
shadowy river to the great beyond.
	It was just such a passing away as was
emblematic of her life, calm, peaceful, tran-
quil. No matter how heavy her cross, “God
willed it so,” and that satisfied her trusting
soul. Bravely she bore her load and accom-
plished her mission, passing thence from
death unto life. Closed now are her eyes,
hushed is her voice, her form will no more
be seen in our midst, but she has left upon
our souls the impress of her nobility of char- 
acter, her loftiness of purpose and her un-
swerving trust in God.

	How nobly, how bravely she toiled,
		How well her work is done;
	Her life, its labors seemed all complete,
		Ere the setting of life’s sun.

	Sister Harriet Brown was born March 9,
1834, at Ossion, N. Y., where her early life
was spent. As a child she was of a gentle,
loving, modest and retiring disposition, and
the same qualities remained with her
throughout her entire life and distinguished
her as a choice and noble spirit, yet withal
her personality was such that evil would be
abashed in her presence. She was always
of a studious nature and loved books far
better than childish sports. Her parents de-
siring to give her that which her whole na-
ture craved, sent her to the Alfred Academy,
N. Y., from which she graduated in July,
1854. Prior to this she had taught school.
	The days spent in this academy must
have been very happy ones as evinced by her
abiding love for her Alma Mater, for she
ever kept in close touch with that institu-
tion.
	But not alone in the satisfaction exper-
ienced through the realization of her fondest
aspirations, was her great happiness found.
The Gospel had been preached in that vicin-
ity, and she, with others of her dear ones 
had received the glad message. Thus was
her soul expanding and drinking to its full-
est of the waters of life. She was baptized
June 17, 1851, thus linking her life with
those of the Latter-day Saints. After grad-
uating she went to Kentucky where she
taught school for several months, but, as is
usual with the true saint, the spirit of gath- 
ering manifested itself and she traveled to
Council Bluffs, teaching school at that place
during the winter of 1855. It was here she
met and loved a man of God, and they two,
whose lives were consecrated to the same
high and holy purpose, were united in mar-
riage, April 13, 1856.
	Then followed the journey across the
plains, with all its attending hardships, test-
ing the faith and endurance of every Saint
who gathered to Zion in those early days.
Arriving in Ogden, her husband was engaged
to teach school, in which vocation she soon
joined, continuing in the same until 1870,
when poor health compelled her resignation.
Three children came to bless their union:
Harriet E., Israel C., and Annis, all of whom
with a faithful and devoted sister, and other
members of the family, are left to cherish
the memory of their honored and sainted
dead.
	Sister Harriet Canfield Brown early iden-
tified herself with the Relief Society, where
her very efficient labors soon brought her
into the front ranks; this, indeed, was work
in full accord with her loving, sympathetic
disposition.
	After the return from the south in 1858,
she was chosen second counselor in the

[Column 2]
Ogden City Relief Society. Next we find
her president of the same, working with the
same diligence to perform her part in the
work of love and charity to which her whole
soul responded.

	How tender she was at the couch of pain,
		How willing her sisters to bless,
	The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs,
		Her works were of righteousness.
	Her counsels were fraught with wisdom,
		Her teachings were full of love,
	Her example will bear fruition
		That will follow her above.

	In 1871, by her own request, with deep
regret, she was permitted to resign her posi-
tion as president, and Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards succeeded her, retaining Sister Hattie,
as she was lovingly called, as her first
counselor, which position she honorably and
faithfully filled until called from us by
death. In 1877 the work was largely in-
creased by separate branches being organized
in each ward of Ogden and Weber Co., and
the complete organization of the Relief
Society of the Weber Stake being effected,
yet although frail in body she exhibited the
same zeal, energy and faithfulness that al-
ways characterized her labors and still
proved herself the wise counselor and val-
ued friend, and when through affliction she
was no longer able to meet with us, her
messages of love were as benedictions to the
sisters.
	Although she shrank from anything of a
public nature, yet she drew around her the
good and pure, both old and young, and
her beautiful life has been an inspiration to
all with whom she came in contact. "To
know her was to love her, and they who
knew her best loved her most.”
	In her death we are all bereaved, but
what must it mean in the quiet home over
which with such queenly grace and dignity
she presided so long: there, as with us her
place is vacant, She has passed the bourne
from whence no traveler ever returns. One
can only pray that with their bereavement
may come its accompanying balm and that
the sweet influence of the holy spirit
may brood over the home hallowed by the
noble dead who have passed its portals in
their flight to the realms of glory.
	At her funeral as in her life there was no
grand display or demonstration; heads were
bowed, tread was muffled, voices subdued
and softened. All were awed by the passing
of a great soul. And when in that silent
city of the dead, her body was lowered into
mother earth,

“Then faith viewed life in that scene of death,
Felt summer’s breeze in the winter’s breath,
Knew the seed in weakness sown that hour,
Hereafter would rise in glory and power,
Changing earth for heaven’s high sphere,
Time’s brief day for Eternity’s year.’’

						NELLIE BECRAFT.

	In behalf of the officers and members of
the Weber Stake R. S..


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
FLOATING DOWN THE RHINE.
The Rhine, the Rhine, the beautiful Rhine.

	Durham House, 295, Edge Lane,
        			Liverpool, England.
					February 1908.
	The broad, deep, placid, blue river of ro-
mance and of most enchanting scenery,
	The shores on either side are dotted with

[Column 2]
towns and villages and castles,many old and
ruined, built in times of long ago, having
each a legend weird, romantic and myster-
ious. Many castles are built on the highest
pinnacle of a mountain, in the most inac-
cessible positions to enable them to with-
stand long sieges from hostile and preda-
tory neighbors. They are huge piles of tur-
reted towers and solid masonry which seem
to bid defiance to time and all men. They
are magnificent, grim and grand. Many are
in a complete state of ruin, through the de-
structive invasion of the French. Some are
inhabited in the safest parts aud all are in-
tensely interesting as landmarks in the his-
tory of a people long since dead. The view
is all too fleeting, sailing down on the bosom
of the lovely river. One desires to stop and
ramble through the deserted halls and ban-
quet rooms and revel in imagination of the
gay and beautiful women and heroic knights
who once trod in pride these wondrous struc-
tures. Renowned towns and villages came
in view at nearly every turn of the frequently
bending river, which has been the birthplace
of some never to be forgotten person or ex-
ploits of some ancient worthies. The river
winds majestically along, washing the feet
of high mountains, precipitous rocks and
rolling hills, for 730 miles down to the North
sea. The middle section for a little over
one hundred miles from Frankfort to Cologne
has the most rugged and mountainous scen-
ery. Many of the steep sides of mountains
and hills are planted to vineyards almost to
their very tops. They have to be terraced
before planting. The breaking up of this
ground has all to be done by hand, for no
animal or plow could work on the steep
places. This utilization of this kind of
ground could not be carried on in Utah,
where every vine has to have a streamlet of
water to it, or it will wither up and die. In
Rhineland every year is not a fruitful one on
account of drouth. A fruitful vintage is
only once in a while. They say the grapes
are not pleasant to eat, only good for wine.
We thought that we would like to taste the
renowned Rhine wine. I had about two
tablespoonfuls poured into my glass and
tasted—ugh—flat vinegar. A spoonful of
good vinegar, water and sugar, like my
mother often gave us in summer time with
our lunch, was much more to my taste. Per-
haps my taste is uncultivated, but they can
have their wine if they like it. This reminds
me of another difference in taste. At the
table where we sampled our wine, sat a fine
old German and his daughter. On a plate
there was some slices of moist, very black
rye bread. The German insisted I taste
this bread, saying it was the finest in the
world. I did, and thought I had taken a
quid of tobacco, it looked, smelled and
tasted like it, although I do not believe I
ever tasted tobacco.
	To describe at any length the scenes,
towns, castles, ruins and bridges noted and
renowned, places of history and interest, as
one passes them sailing down the river,
would make the article entirely too long.
So a short notice and a legend attached will
be all that can be done. We left Frankfort
on the Main and took a train to Biebrech, a
small town where we were to take the boat,
There were two trains leaving about the
same time to this village, one going into it
and the other going on down to the wharf.
Of course we took the wrong one, so we had
to walk, or trot, as we had not much time
to correct our mistake, and catch the boat.
But the walk of little over a mile was
through a fine park in which was a pretty


[Column 1]

old ruin, a hasty glimpse of which repaid us
for our walk. We arrived in time to go on a
boat named “Barbarossa.” It was a fine large
boat and had quite a number a passengers.
We had a book describing points as we came
to them and it kept us busy watching first one
side and then the other, so as not to miss
anything of note.
	Bingen, the chief town, in one of the divi-
ions of Hessland, is of very ancient origin,
was noted in Roman times. A bridge on
one side of it built over the river Nahe,
dates from 13 B. C. Burg Klopp, a castle
built in the center of the town, was built in
the enclosing wall of a Roman fort. The
French invaded the town and nearly de-
stroyed it and also the castle. Every one re-
members the pathetic song of “Bingen on the
Rhine,” in which a dying soldier sends his
last message to his bereaved mother. Pass-
ing Bingen you come in view of an interest-
ing castle, the Mansethurm, built on an
island in the river, but very near the shore.
It is merely a tower to which is attached the
legend that a miser, fearing there might
come a famine, filled the tower with wheat.
The famine did come, and he selfishly shut
himself up in his tower with his wheat and
was deaf to the distress of the people around
him. After a great while the tower was
broken open and it was found that the mice
had eaten up the wheat and the miser too.
	Nearly all of the legends are of the im-
possible, but that very fact and the mystery
veiling them is their principal charm. An-
other turn in the river, and we see a very
fine monument erected to commemorate the
victories of the German people and the rest-
oration of the German empire in 1870-1871.
It is 110 feet high, and the figure “German-
ia,” crowns it. On the substructure, which 
is 80 feet high, are the figures of Emperor
William I, and two hundred contemporary
kings and princes.
	We now come to a large, real castle,
Rheinstein, perched on an impregnable pre-
cipitous rock. Tower rises above tower,
grim, gray and ivy-covered, full of mystery,
and stories of love and sorrow, if the walls
could only speak. It has one legend of false
wooing. The Knight Siegfried von
Rheinstein, a warrior, during one of his pre-
datory excursions, captured a beautiful
maiden named Jutta and married her. He
ceased then his pillaging and carousing. In
time a little girl was born to them and Jutta
died. The little girl was named Gerda, who
grew to be so beautiful that suitors from far
and near sued for her love and hand. Her
heart was won by a neighboring knight
named Kuno von Riechenstein. It was the
custom of the times for young lovers to have
a mediator to conduct their suit, so they
chose Kurt von Ehrenfels, Kuno’s uncle.
But faithless to his nephew, he ingratiated
himself into the good graces of Gerda’s
father and gained his consent for himself.
No entreaty of the betrayed Gerda had any
effect with her father after he had given his
word, especially as the uncle was possessed
of great wealth and her lover of very little.
The wedding day dawned, and the festal
procession neared the Klemenkapelle,
where the marriage ceremony was to take
place, when a swarm of gadflies came out
of the bushes. One of them stung the silver
gray palfry of Gerda and it reared and
dashed out of the procession. Gerda
spurred it on, and the steed flew with her to
Reichenstien, the castle of her lover. Kurt,
the uncle, rode after her, but was thrown in
the pursuit and killed, also her father in try-
ing to stop the run away horse, was hurt, 

[Column 2]
but recovered and gave his blessing to the
lovers.
	The next interesting point is the “Lore-
lei,” a basalt rock rising out of the water
430 feet, almost perpendicularly. The river
here is said to be 75 feet deep—the greatest
depth in the river. It is the only place
where salmon is found. When the river is
low seven stones can be seen above the sur-
face. The legend of them is that they rep-
resent seven maidens, who were fickle and
hard hearted, and had deceived their lovers
and at the curse of the Lorelei were turned
to stone.
	The word Lorelei means in German the
“blustering rock,” or echo rock with us.
Standing below the rock twelve echoes can
be heard resounding from point to point.
Another legend more noted than the above
is that a beautiful (always beautiful) en-
chantress whose wonderful power lay in her
eyes, befooled so many men that she was
ordered shut up in a convent. On her way
there accompanied by a knight, as they
were riding up the Rhine they came to the
high rock. She begged the knight to allow
her to ascend the rock in order to view once
more the castle of her beloved. While gaz-
ing, in the distance she suddenly caught
sight of a ship bearing the colors of her
knight. Then she recognized the returning
loved one standing on the deck. In her
great joy she made a false step and fell
headlong into the deep river and was
drowned. A gale of wind dashed the ship
against the rock and upset it, and thus the
lovers were united in death. Mystery affirms
that from the 13th century a treasure has
been shut up in the rock Lorelei.
	Soon after rounding the sharp curve of
the river at Lorelei, we came in sight of
St. Goar, just above which rises the great
fortress Rheinfels. Some say it is the most
magnificent ruin on the Rhine. It was built
in 1255 and destroyed by the French in
1797. The ruins were sold in 1812 for
2,500 francs or $500.00 in American money.
This castle was built to endure for ages. Its
foundations were laid deep and strong and
were well nigh impregnable. Sixty Rhine
cities combined in vain in 1255 to lay seige
to it, the seige lasting one year and fourteen
weeks. In 1692 a French commander with
17,000 men attacked it with an equally
fruitless result. In 1758 it was treacherous-
ly delivered into the hands of the French
commander Marquis de Castries. The his-
tory of the ruthless destruction and desola-
tion in the German country by the French
explains the slumbering hate that raged in
the bosoms of the German nation which
burst forth in all its fury in the subsequent
war which despoiled France perhaps very
justly of a large slice of her possessions.
	Sailing around the sharpest curve of the
river we come in view of the pretty and an-
cient town of Boppard. It has many tow-
ers, two of the old Parish churches dating
from the beginning of the I2th and 13th
centuries. It has a hydropathic establish-
ment and a beautiful avenue extending for
more than a mile along the river. Passing
along reveling in the glory of the mountains
with vine and tree covered sides, we arrive
in view of the fine monument erected to the
memory of Emperor William I. It was un-
veiled in the presence of Emperor William
II, and many princes, August, 1897. We
next arrive at Coblentz, the chief town of
the Rhine province, said to be the most
beautifully located of all the large towns on
the Rhine. Its origin goes back to Roman
times. It is situated at the junction of the

[Column 3]

Moselle and Rhine rivers. One of its most
interesting places is the Kastorkirche. This
church is built in the form of a fine Roman-
esque Basilica, and dates from the end of the
12th century. It gets its name from a her-
mit of the 4th century, Kastor, whose bones
are said to be deposited in it. In the left
aisle is the monument erected in 1725 to the
saintly Rizza, who went every morning dry-
footed over the Rhine to worship in the 
Kastorkirche, so the legend runs.
	We now glide on past many interesting
places and come to Siebengebirge (seven
mountains) and the castle Drachenfels
(Dragon Rock). This name was a favorite
one for high mountain castles in the middle
ages. This one certainly deserves the name
as it forms the pinnacle of a very steep, in-
accessible mountain. The legend is that
Siegfried, a hero, visited the old Frankish
king Childerich in his vine covered castle
and found him sick and deserted. His
beautiful daughter Gunhild had been car-
ried away by a rejected suitor, Duke Hun-
old, who was  a magician, and placed her in a
cavern guarded by a huge dragon. King
Childerich offered in vain his throne to any
one who would rescue his daughter Gun-
hild. Thirty knights had already been de-
voured by the dragon in their attempt to 
rescue her. Siegfred, hearing the story, de-
clared himself ready for battle with the
monster. In the battle the monster swal-
lows his spear, which he thrusts into its
jaws, then he draws his famous sword, Bal-
mung, and with one terrible stroke of its in-
vincible blade lays the monster dead.
	The fetters of Gunhild are loosened in the
same instant, and Hunold’s soul is taken to 
hell. Unfortunately the usual sequel of
marriage and a long life of happiness does
not follow, for Siegfried is already betrothed
to a lovely woman. Lord Byron has im-
mortalized Drachenfels in one of his canto’s,
in Child Harold. One verse is as follows:

“The castle crag of Drachenfels
	Frowns o’er the wide and winding Rhine,
Whose breast of waters broadly swells,
	Between the banks which bear the vine,
And hills all rich with blossomed trees,
	And fields which promise corn and wine,
And scattered cities crowning these,
	Whose far white walls along them shine,
Have strew’d a scene which I should see,
	With double joy wert thou with me.’’

	We now come to Bonn, a pretty little
town and a wonderful bridge across the
Rhine. This town has the distinction  of
being the birthplace of the great musician
Ludwig von Beethoven. His father was
a tenor singer to the elector. On the Mun-
sterplatz stands a monument to his mem-
ory unveiled 1845. The Bonn Rhine Bridge
spoken of above is a magnificent piece of
engineering, its central span of 610 feet
being the second largest span in Europe.
	A little back from the river is a villa with
a cupola. This is the residence of the Im-
perial Princes while studying in Rome.
	We now soon arrive at Cologne, the end of
our never to be forgotten ride down the
Rhine.
	Cologne is the most important town of the
Rhine Province, though not the capital. It
was an important place on the Rhine in
Roman times, 38 B. C. The city is the seat
of an Archbishop and of a Governor.
	To it was intrusted in 1164 the preserva-
tion of the remains of the three Kings (the
Magi). This has caused pilgrims from all
parts of the earth continually to be drawn to
the city. The grandest and most amazing
structure in the city is the cathedral, called


The Dom. I have gazed upon and gone
into many cathedrals, but none excel this
to me. One can gaze with enraptured awe
standing in front of this amazing structure,
with its two towers 530 feet from the
ground, for hours without being weary or
feeling that half had been seen. From the
ground to the pinnacle it is most wonderfully
ornate. The history of its building is pa-
thetic in its long struggle to be finished.
	The foundation stone was laid in 1248.
It is of Gothic architecture designed by Ger-
hard yon Riehl. The choir was consecrated
in 1322 and the temporary wall with which
they enclosed it fn order to hold divine
services remained standing until 1863. It
was finally finished and on the 15th of Oct.,
1880, Emperor William I, surrounded by
the whole of the royal family and many of
the princes of Germany, laid the capstone of
this grand and noble building, thus this
sublimest monument of architectural skill
was completed. The interior is in keeping
in beauty with the exterior, the immense
fluted pillars and stained glass windows of
surpassing beauty enchain the admiration
of the beholder and cause one to feel that
the worshipers in such a delightful building
should have the light of true worship. We
attended a short service and came away
with sad hearts, having witnessed the mock-
ery of religion, and the darkness, ignorance,
and mystery that fills the hearts of the wor-
shipers. At the window of our room in the
hotel opposite the Dom I sat long gazing on 
this grand structure, and I wondered when
the mummery which is used in the name 
of religion would be stilled and the sublime 
structure dedicated to the true and liviag
God.
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Sometime about the middle of this month
(February) Brother Joseph Wilson of this
city brought some Eastern ladies to call at
this office in whom he thought we would be
particularly interested, because of the work
they were doing for destitute mothers and
children. It is needless to say that we
who are so actively engaged in the Relief
Society are always glad to know of simi-
lar work being done elsewhere. The ladies
were from Kansas City, Mo., and when
they informed us that the home they had
established was called “Joseph’s Home”
the name attracted immediate attention.
Mrs. Julia Anna Baker, who founded this
home for mothers and children who are
left stranded and helpless, has a most at-
tractive manner and is very prepossessing
in appearance, and in conversation. She
has a cultivated, pleasing voice, like one
accustomed to alleviating sorrow. The
facts stated here in regard to the Home
were of great interest and the work seems
of untold value. The ladies, two of them
are remaining here for a few days, and
the women of Salt Lake will have an op-
portunity to inquire into the benefits and
helpfulness of the home established by
Mrs. Baker, which strongly appeals to
women benevolently inclined and desirous
of rendering aid to young mothers with
little children, left dependent upon their
own exertions, with perhaps no experience
of the world and its besetments, and no
advisor, or suitable employment; perchance,
even without a dollar, or a place of shel-
ter. The writer recalls the magnificent


work done in a similar direction by Mrs.
Sarah Andrews Spencer of Washington D.
C., wherein she saved the lives of many
very young mothers and innocent babes.
Such women are public benefactors in a
very broad sense, and certainly humani-
tarians in heart and soul. Whoever saves
one precious life from pure motives is
worthy of commendation, and in these
days when divorces are frequent and de-
sertion of wives and little children has be-
come a matter of every day occurrence, if
there is “balm in Gilead” for young moth-
ers, a home for the little ones who are
unprotected and unprovided for, it is most
assuredly a source of satisfaction and to
know that there are women unselfish
enough to devote their lives to this grand
and noble service of tenderly caring for
mothers and children and keeping up the
home idea, instead of farming the children
out, and merging their identity into the
public, until they do not know their own
parentage, is a point to be emphasized, and
carefully considered.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of one of our noble sisters of the 25th ward Relief
Society, Pioneer Stake, Salt Lake City, Sister
Matilda Ek, wife of Bishop Carl Ek, who
passed away Friday, November 6th, 1908,
after a severe illness. She leaves a husband and
family of eight children, three boys and five girls.
She was a devoted wife and mother. She filled
the position of second counselor in the Relief So-
ciety to the satisfaction of all, and endeared her-
self to a host of friends, but as our heavenly
Father in His wisdom has seen fit to call home
our sister to a better life, we the officers and mem-
bers of the 25th ward express our sincere sympa-
thy to the bereaved husband and family in their
loss, feeling also that they have been greatly
blessed with her wise and faithful example. Our
sister is not dead, she simply sleeps, her intelli-
gent part having gone to that bright sphere where
the just await the time of their redemption, when
there will be a reunion of the spirit with the body,
through the power of the resurrection. Having
slept in peace, she has secured her title to be
among the heavenly throng that will accompany
the Lord of glory, when He shall come to this
creation to take the reins of its government.
								COM.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the Memory of Sarah B. Layton, President
	of the Kaysville Relief Society for Twenty-
	four Years.

	Sister Sarah B. Layton was born July 6, 1826,
in Bedfordshire, England, and departed this life
September 13th, 1906. She was the daughter of
William and Elizabeth Barnes and the wife of the
late Christopher Layton. She was the mother of
six children, five of whom survive her.
	The officers of the Kaysville Relief Society of
the Davis Stake of Zion have prepared the follow-
ing resolutions:
	Whereas, our eternal Father has called home
one of his most earnest workers in his cause,
therefore be it
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members
of this Society, offer our earnest sympathy to the
bereaved family.
	Resolved, That we do humbly testify that we do
greatly appreciate her noble works. The leading
traits of her character were charity, love, and
humility. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and her light will shine before
us in time and in eternity. We realize that she
is enjoying the rest of the faithful and she will
come forth in a glorious resurrection crowned
with eternal life.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded on
our Relief Society Record, also published in the
Woman’s Exponent.
	In behalf of the Kaysville Relief Society,
	Sarah H. Sheffield, President; Elizabeth Lar-
kins, Susannah Robins, Counselors; Alice Foxley,
Secretary.


INTERESTING CONFERENCE IN ARIZONA.
	Relief Society Conference of St. Joseph
Stake was held in Thatcher, December 23,
1907, in honor of the 102nd anniversary of
the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Pres-
dent Elizabeth Layton presiding. After
singing, and prayer by Patriarch Samuel
Claridge, First Counselor Salina Phillips
made some opening remarks and welcomed
all present.
	President Layton stated the object of the
meeting, commenting on the event of the
birth of the Prophet.
	President Andrew Kimball gave a de-
scriptive narrative of a visit to the cities of
Nauvoo, Independence, and adjacent places
of interest to the Saints.
	Roll call showed eight stake officers pres-
ent, and eight society organizations repre-
sented.
	Emma B. Coleman of the Stake Board
gave a detailed account of the organization
of the first Relief Society, quoting the
Prophet many times during her remarks.
	Congregation sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
when the conference was adjourned until 2
p. m., during which time all repaired to the
hall below, where luncheon was served and
the noon hour spent in social chat, and re-
lating of events in the early history of the
Church.
	Afternoon session opened by the assembly
singing the hymn sung by the Apostle John
Taylor just prior to the martyrdom, “A poor
wayfaring man of grief.”
	Statistical and financial report of the
Stake was read, and the names of the offic-
ers presented by the secretary and unani-
mously sustained.
	John F. Nash of the Stake Presidency
spoke on the life of the Prophet. The
speaking was interspersed with quartet,
solos and recitations, all appropriate selec-
tions for the occasion, with also an original
poem by Samuel Claridge.
	The social feature of the conference was
an old-time, daneing party, which was
greatly enjoyed by all who participated-
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			MORGAN STAKE.
	The semi annual Relief Society conference
of the Morgan Stake was held in the Stake
house on Saturday, February 15, 1908.
	After opening exercises President Lydia
Rich welcomed them all to our meetings.
Reports were given from Morgan, Rich-
ville and Milton wards, that the work is
alive in their wards and doing pretty well.
	Bishop Giles of Milton encouraged all in
the work. A quartette was then beautifully
rendered by the Richville Society, given by
four of the elderly sisters, “Christ at the
Door.” A talk on “Hospitality” was given
by Secretary Annie W. Clark. A speech by
Sister Belle Butters.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m.
	The afternoon session convened with a
pretty good attendance of stake and ward
officers and members; also President Daniel
Heiner and a number of brethren; after
opening exercises “A Testimony” by Sister
Jane S. Richards was read. Counselor
Maryette Waldron gave good advice to
secretaries.
	Counselor M. J. Walsh made a few re-
marks. A recitation was given by Martha
Meacum, “An Address to the Sisters in
Zion;” a solo by Miss Benson, “Face to


[Column 1]
Face.” Sister Tilda Neilson Petersen gave
a Mother’s Talk, “Training Girls;” Coun-
selor William Francis of the Stake Presi-
dency made a few remarks. Choir sang an
anthem, after which Sister Ann Fry gave us
a short talk, referred to the noble life of
Sister Jane S. Richards. Counselor Mary-
ettee Waldron then presented the general
and local Relief Society officers, which were
sustained by vote.
	President Lydia Rich advised all to sup-
port Relief Society work better. It will
make good women better. There is too
much of the spirit of pleasure-seeking in
our day. We should avoid extremes.
Benediction by Brother John Rich.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				ANNIE CLARK, Sec’y.
			ALPINE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held at Ameri-
can Fork, January 17th, 1908. President
Rebecca Standring presiding.
	Meeting opened at 10 o’clock by singing
and prayer as usual. Roll call, with a good
response from stake and local officers. Min-
utes read, etc.
	President Standring was pleased to meet
the sisters in conference, and hoped that
this might prove a happy and prosperous
New Year to us. “There has been much
sickness amongst us during this winter,
many have been bereaved of their loved
ones, but the Lord knows best, and we
should asknowledge His hand in all our cir-
cumstances. God is watching our labors,
and He will reward us as we deserve.” De-
sired His blessings to rest upon us this day.
	The four wards of American Fork were
reported by the different presidents. The
reports were encouraging. A noble band of
sisters always on hand to do what is re-
required. The rich and poor and lonely are
visited and their wants supplied. The
“Mothers lessons” on faith are doing a good
work, just what is needed.
	Song, “Count Your Blessings,” American
Fork, first ward.
	President James H. Clarke spoke of the
progress being made by the sisters and the
wisdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith in or-
ganizing the Society. Only a few years ago
it was considered indelicate for a woman to
speak before the public, now the women of
the world are pushing to bring themselves
into recognition. Think of the few people
who accepted these principles in the begin-
ning, and see what has been aocomplished
in a short time. This has not been accom-
plished by the wisdom of the world, but by
the power of God; and this work is to con-
tinue to the end. never to be taken away
nor given to another people. Many leading
men had to be cut off from the Church in
early days. We cannot estimate the im-
portance of our children growing up imbued
with the principles of the Gospel. Every
member of the Church should be those who
can be depended upon, and we should be
proud of our association with this people.
We have not commenced to see the expan-
sion of this work.
	President Louisa Halliday reported Pleas-

[Column 2]
ant Grove, and President Christina War-
nick reported Manila both doing well, pros-
pering and united, love the work, enjoy the
lessons and also the little Gems from the B’s.
	Sister Sina Chapman felt to rejoice in this
meeting. Some think they cannot speak or
sing, but we know that our sisters are equal
to every task required of them. God is
pleased with our work. Where would we
have been had not the Prophet Joseph been
nspired to organize the women? The Lord
recognizes, these women. See the noble
band of young missionaries, male and fe-
male, now out in the world, taught by their
mothers. Riches cannot change us, the
Spirit of God guides us, and the Lord blesses
His daughters even in our administration
to our sick children. Prayed that the Lord
would continually bless our labors and His
Spirit guide us. 
	Closed with singing and benediction.
	A nice lunch was prepared and served by
the committee during the noon intermission,
and was partaken of by over 200 guests,
who all agreed that it was much better than
going out to dinner. It was also a good
time for old friends to see each other.
	Afternoon session: Conference reassem-
bled at 2 p. m., President Standring pre-
siding. Meeting commenced by singing,
prayer, etc.
	The four wards of Lehi were reported by
the presidents, also Alpine reported by
President Sarah Marsh. All gave encour-
aging reports. “They are united and trying
to do their duty, holding good meetings
with an increased attendance. All have
good granaries and are trying to fill them.
Are trying to serve the Lord and are thank-
ful for the blessings He bestows upon them.
	Song. “The Daughters of Zion are Friends
of the Poor,” American Fork, third ward.
	A short history of the Relief Society of
Alpine Stake from 1901 when it was first
organized to the present, was read by Stake
Counselor Annie C. Hindley. Song by the
first ward Primary officers, entitled, “A
Prayer.”
	President Stephen L. Chipman had been
satisfied with the reports given of the wards,
they had been very good. We should al-
ways report all that is good, and keep our
criticisms to ourselves. Admired the sing-
ing. We should all sing who can and all
say Amen to the prayer. No one asks for
a position in the Church, the nominations
come from the head, and then it is put be-
fore the body for approval. Spoke of tith-
ing. After the head authorities, the
Bishops are required to look over the names
of the non-tithe payers. Those who earn
nothing are not expected to pay tithing,
neither are missionaries. The good plan
would be for each sister to keep a little book
and enter all her small earnings so that she
can refer to that and know how much tith-
ing she owes the Church. Spoke of ex-
travagance in families. It looks like we
might have close times, and people should
be careful and live within their income.
Now is a good time to curtail our expenses,
to be economical in our living and dress.
Spoke of funerals, thought those of children
might be held at home. Let us be con-

[Column 3]
sistent. Sisters, stand together and do not
let a sentence escape your lips before your
children that would be detrimental to the
brethren and sisters who are over us.
Prayed the Lord to bless our labors.
	Bishop Warren B. Smith gave a few
words of advice to the sisters on retrench-
ment in our households. We should re-
strain our children from the evils that are
around us. They should go to meeting and
learn their duty and curtail their amuse-
ments. Prayed that we be dictated by the
Spirit of the Lord.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to the
committee who had worked so hard to
make things pleasant for the sisters.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed for three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A Congressional hearing on the petition
for a Sixteenth Amendment forbidding dis-
franchisement on account of sex will take
place at Washington on March 3rd. A re-
ception to the presidents of the State Suf-
frage Associations visiting Washington at
the time will be given at the Shoreham the
evening before. A meeting of the National
Business Committee will follow the hearing.
It will be held at the Rev. Anna H. Shaw’s
home in Moylan, Pa.
	Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett writes
from London that she thinks the statement
that the Primrose League passed a strong
resolution in favor of woman suffrage is an
error. She says: “The National Union of
Conservative Associations passed a woman
suffrage resolution at Birmingham, but this
is not the Primrose League.” A report that
the Primrose League had done so was cir-
culated in the American press and copied in
our columns. Apparently it was prema[-]ure.
	The engagement is announced of Nora
Stanton Blatch, granddaughter of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton and daughter of Mrs. Harriet
Stanton Blatch, to Dr. Lee De Forest, the
inventor. Miss Blatch graduated from the
civil engineering course at Cornell in 1905,
at the age of 21. She was the first woman
to enter that department at Cornell. She
distinguished herself during her junior year
while in camp doing field work by swim-
ming across Lake Seneca, a distance of a
mile, and a few days later by swimming
across Cayuga Lake at its widest part. She
graduated among the first five in a class of
seventy-five, and was elected to the honor
society, Sigma Psi.
	Of a distinguished educator who objects
to the predominence of women in the teach-
ing profession, an acute woman makes this
criticism: “At on time this man’s judg- 
ment on educational matters was worth
something; but he has been in educational
work so long, has studied the petty details
of his work so constantly, and has become
so narrowed by the prejudices of his calling
and by continually dealing with the smaller 
things of life, that his judgment is of very
little value at present.” There is something
well worth thinking over in the point of that 
criticism. The teaching profession, with its
excessive demands for concentration upon 
small things and its necessity for constant
adaptation to the needs of immature minds,
has so strong a tendency to weaken the
powers of generalization that educators
should never cease to guard themselves
against this debilitating influence.—The
Public.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

