Vol. 36						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1907.					No. 3


CONTENTS. 
								PAGE		
Henry W. Naisbitt...........Lydia D. Alder	17
Mary Anderson..............William Winter	17
General Relief Society Conference........	19
Notes and News.....................................19 & 24
Mothers’ Work:—Panguitch Stake.........	19
	Bear Lake Stake..............................	21
Relief Society Reports:—Emery Stake..	21
	Summit Stake.................................	21
	Wasatch Stake.................................	21
	Woodruff Stake...............................	22
	Nebo Stake.....................................	22
	Bear Lake Stake..............................	23
In Memoriam..........................................	23
Obituary..................................................	23
Editorial:—Patriotism and Suffrage.......	20
	Holland and the Cause of Peace.....	20
Poetry:—Mother..............H. W. Naisbitt	17
	A Memory System..Priscilla Leonard	18 
	I Would Arise and Go Unto My Father
	.......Thomas Wentworth Higginson	19
	The Brotherhood of Man............... 
	...........................Thomas McKellar	19


MOTHER.

Respectfully dedicated to Professor Kent.

The sweetest word in human lore,
Repeated most and thought of more,
Its music rings and means the same
Whene’er you speak that holiest name.
In spheres afar, in heaven above.
Where’er is heard the song of love!
It blends with motherhood in b iss, 
Its smiles, caress, or lingering kiss,
I here salute and bend the knee,
My mother, thou art all to me!	
And though removed from me afar,
Thou art for e’er my guiding star!
Thou art my hands, my feet, my whole,
The guardian of my childish soul,

		Chorus:

My mother dear, I hail thy name,
In every stage, from youth to fame, 
And I thy blessing oft implore,
When heart is weary, sick or sore,
My mother! oh, my mother!

Into thy presence-chamber, I,
In life’s mad rush oft freely fly;
Thy counsel lit my earliest years,
And oft I ask it now in tears.
Brave, true and steadfast, always right,
When mists obscured my clouded sight,
I turned to thee, as unto God,
His agent on earth’s rugged sod;
And often wish that thou wert nigh,
My sainted, sinless mother, here I sigh;
Come teach my wandering feet to tread
The path that you so bravely trod;
I know it leads, though weary, sore,
Back to the Father’s unlatched door.

My hair is whitening now, like hers,
And thought full oft my bosom stirs,
Shall I find welcome at her door,
When called to leave life’s changing
	shore?
Can I be free from stain of sin?
And hear her voice say, “Come in! come
	in!”
“I’ve longed to hear your voice—your
	song;
I’ve waited here and waited long
To hear you, with the choir above,
That anthem called 'Redeeming Love,'
Which makes the dome of heaven ring,
And every angel doth it sing;
You, too, have worked and toiled for
	this—
The acme of eternal bliss.”
				H. W. NAISBITT.


[Column 1]
		HENRY W. NAISBITT.

	How fitting that the author should
make “Mother” the last tracings of his
pen, or at least the last expression of his
poetic thought; Coming into the Infor-
mation Bureau a few days ago, where
long he had been a faithful and intelli-
gent worker, Brother Naisbitt gave a
printed copy of “Mother” to the writer
with the words, “The last I expect to
write this side of the Great Beyond.”
“Oh, not the last,” I cried, hoping to
discourage such depressing forebodings.
Then we talked of England, where I had
labored when he was one of the presid-
ency with President Platt D. Lyman.
As missionaries, we had traveled fn Scot-
land and Ireland, as well as in England.
On the same soul-inspiring scenes we had
gazed; together read out of Nature’s book
and talked of the works of God. Vividly
comes to mind the wonderful Giant’s
Causeway in Ireland, which we visited
with President Lyman and the Elders of
the Irish conference. Climbing up, be-
hind the rest, Brother Naisbitt and my-
self talked of these unexplained phases
of Nature and her beauties there re-
vealed. While surveying the Causeway,
mountain and sea, he said, “Sister Alder,
how will it be when we have no more
sea, when the waters shall be gathered
together as at first?” Looking on the
sea’s glistening, heaving expanse, I said,
perhaps with sadness, “I have not
thought of it. I have not thought of it.”
	Now perusing the poem, “Mother,”
how forcibly the thought impresses one,
that as the infant ever turns to the moth-
er for comfort, Sustenance and life, so in
the weakness of age, the soul instinct-
ively cries for “mother,” Her smiles,
her eyes of solicitude, a vision of her as
she was in days gone by, fires the heart
and mind.
	“My sainted, sinless mother,” I see
the sightless eyes now. as the author of
“Mother” turned them upon me, “True
and steadfast, always right.” Did way-
ward childhood think her always right?
Did not little restraints seem like huge
chords; her chiding irksome; her counsel
unrequited? No matter! 	Behold the
babe of years, tottering on the verge of
the grave, thinks she was “always right.”
Unconscious, perhaps, he has been, that
her dear, guiding hand has held his
through life, smoothed the rough places,
shunned the pitfalls through dark ravines
or on barren road. He may have felt
forsaken or alone on mountain top, where
icy breezes blow; but even there he nat-
urally in thought has turned to mother to
kiss the aching fingers and warm them
with her own.
	Oh, dear mother, ’tis your love that
makes your children whole; relieves aches
and pains; brings peace and consolation.
In the valley’s warmth and sunshine, the
glad, pulsing heart, full of exultation,
sometimes even then our thoughts turn to
mother. Not for comfort now, but a
benediction—a sharer in our joy. 	How
oft we find ourselves thinking of her—

[Column 2]
some trivial, every-day incident will
bring her vividly to mind! Ever beauti-
ful to us is our mother; none to us so
dear.

	The counsel given in earlier years
	Now we seek with falling tears.

“My hair is whitening now, like hers!”

	Now we can understand
	Why close she held our hand,
	The lovelight in her eyes—
	Faint glimpse of Paradise—
	Would shield from every snare;
	Will for us ever care,
	While we roam far from home;

	“I’ve longed to hear you sing ‘Redeem-
ing Love’—the song the angels sing.’’
Oh, may it be, that on that bed of pain,
the world now lost to sight, and faded 
earthly things away, he hears that glad
refrain. Not now life’s proud positions
come to mind; the brilliance felt not now
of song or pen; allurements that trip us
over; the clamorings of ambition — all
seem of no avail; but, mother who long
ago journeyed to an unknown shore, she
is his thought, his love.

	With trembling limbs and sightless eyes,
	He turns a child again.

	So as a little child, shall we see the
kingdom of heaven; as a little child
shall we enter in.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


MARY ANDERSON.
SKETCH OF QUEEN OF AMERICAN STAGE.

	The following extracts are from one of
a series of aticles on “Players: Past and
Present,” which appeared about a year
ago from the pen of the veteran dram-
atic critic, William Winter:
	The stage life of Mary Anderson was
comparatively brief (1875-1889), but it was
brilliant with achievement, and, in its hon-
esty, sincerity,  simplicity, radical worth
and beneficent influence, it was beautiful.
It was not all tranquility; it had its clouds
of care—“the very source and fount of
day,” as the poet Tennyson has told us,
is “dashed with wandering isles of night”
—but it was right in motive, it was free
from contention, it was devoid of reproach,
it was guided and governed by a noble
ambition, and its results were good.
	She made her first appearance on the
stage, when she was only sixteen years
old, at Barney Macauley’s Theater, in
Louisville, Kentucky, November 25, 1875.
	She came out as Juliet, and one who
was present declares that, notwithstand-
ing the crudity inseparable from youth
and inexperience, it was a performance
of extraordinary force, feeling and prom-
ise. Its paramount beauty, was its vocal-
ism. Miss Anderson’s voice, indeed, was
always her predominant charm: certain
tones in it—so thrilling, so full of wild
passion and inexpressible melancholy—
went straight to the heart, and brought
tears into the eyes. The voice is the ex-
ponent of the soul. You can paint your


[Column 1]
face; you can pad your person; you can
wear a wig; you can walk in shoes that
augment your height; you can, in various
ways, change your body; but your voice
will, sooner or later, reveal you as you
are. It seems unlikely that Miss Ander-
son’s melting, tragic tones were uttered
in any of her girlish impartments; but the
copious, lovely voice was there, and it
gained her first yictory. The time had
not yet come when she could, actually
and absolutely, embody Juliet. It did
come, and her success in that part was
decisive and unequivocal. The most ro-
mantic and the most passionate Juliet of
our epoch was that of Adelaide Neilson;
the most essentially womanlike and splen-
didly tragical Juliet that our stage has
known within the last fifty years was that
of Mary Anderson.
	Mary Anderson, on the stage, had to
make her way from comparative obscu-
rity, and at the first, contrary to common
belief, her pathway was not one of roses.
Artistically, however, she began “at the
top”—where, as Daniel Webster said,
there is always plenty of room. Genius
and beauty can, sometimes, so begin,
wisely and to advantage; but, in general,
that course is not judicious. The begin-
ner, in this case, acted on the advice of
Charlotte Cushman, who perceived her
natural endowments, and must have dis-
cerned in her an exceptional fitness for
the dramatic profession. Just as Burns
was born to write poety, Mary Anderson
was born to act. That fact the veteran
actress divined; and though firm in the
faith that, as she expressed it, “the art of
sailing a ship cannot be learned by enter-
ing at the cabin window,” she knew that
there are exceptions to all rules. The
origin of genius has not been ascertained.
It happens—and that is all we know
about it.
	The antecedents of Mary Anderson af-
ford no explanation of her proclivity for
the stage.
	She was born in the Eagle Hotel,
Sacramento, California, July 28, 1859.
Her father, Charles H. Anderson, was a
young Englishman who had come to
America to seek his fortune. He served
as an officer in the Confederate Army;
and died early in the Civil War. His
grave is in Magnolia Cemetery, at Mobile,
Alabama. Her mother, Antonia Leugers,
of Philadelphia, was a beautiful woman,
of German descent, and of rigorous Cath-
olic principles. Neither of her parents
was theatrical. Her mother, after some
time of widowhood, married Dr. Hamil-
ton Griffin, of Louisville, Kentucky, where,
for a time, Miss Anderson was an inmate
of a Roman Catholic convent school. She
was reared in the Catholic faith, by Fath-
er Anthony Miller, a Franciscan priest,
her mother’s uncle—a man of extensive
learning and exalted character. She left
school before she was fourteen years of
age. As a child she had seen some of the
performances of Edwin Booth, which had
touched her heart and fired her fancy. To
such a degree, indeed, was she influenced
by Booth’s acting that she learned some
of the parts she had seen him perform —
Hamlet, Richelieu, Wolsey and Richard
III—and acted them in private; and also
she learned and acted Schiller’s Joan of
Arc.  Her resolute purpose to become an
actress (for, even in girlhood, she mani-
fested exceptional strength of will) pre-
vailed over the scruples of most of her

[Column 2]
pious relatives. Doctor Griffin, her step-
father, speaking of that period in her ex-
perience, said that her insistence was irre-
sistible, and that, at last, he was con-
strained to go with her to the principal
theater of Louisville and ask for a trial
of her talents. Then came her perform-
ance of Juliet. The verdict was favor-
able, and the manager, Macauley—special-
ly incited thereto by an approving word
from the tragedian John McCullough—
gave to her a regular engagement, begin-
ning January 20, 1876, from which time
until the season of 1888-89 she was in con-
tinual practice of her profession.
	She first appeared in New York in 1877,
at the Fifth Avenue Theater, and there-
after she made annual tours of the coun-
try and so laid the foundation of a bril-
liant renown. Her professional ventures
in England ensued and she became a
favorite abroad as well as at home. Her
acting was seen with delight in Scotland
and Ireland, as well as in the provincial
cities of England.
	On June 17, 1890, she was married to
Mr. Antonio de Novarro, and since then
she has dwelt in retirement, only occasion-
ally emerging to read and to sing for the
benefit of the poor of London. Her home
is at Broadway, Worcestershire, England;
and her friends are glad to know that she
is—as she deserves to be—one of the hap-
piest women in the world.
	Fortunate in her choice of a career and
fortunate in her management of it, Mary
Anderson was especially fortunate in her
retirement from public life at a time when
her renown was at its height. To the
stage, and to society—so continuously and
deeply affected by the stage—her with-
drawal was not simply a deprivation, it
was a bereavement; for it greatly reduced
the public store of innocent pleasure,
and it greatly weakened the inspiring and
ennobling influence of the acted drama.
But her exertions had been great and
continuous; as an heroic actress, she had
reached the zenith of achievement; her
health required relief from care; and she
left the scene before the lights had begun
to darken and while yet a time remained 
for the enjoyment of that life of the af-
fections which is the chief blessing of our
mortal state. She did not take a formal
farewell of the theater. Her last appear-
ance occurred at Washington, in the
spring of 1889, and the last part that she
acted was Hermione.
	It is a sign of Mary Anderson’s nobility
that she attracted, and always kept, the
esteem and affectionate regard of such
noble natures as Edwin Booth, John Mc-
Cullough, Lawrence Barrett and Joseph
Jefferson, among actors and of Longfel-
low, Tennyson, Lord Lytton and Aubrey
de Vere, among poets. With Longfellow
she was a special favorite, and she de-
rived lasting benefit from his friendship
and his counsel. No person, indeed, ever
came near that exalted, benignant, gentle
spirit without reason for special gratitude.
Longfellow was the most authentic, com-
prehensive, sympathetic and important
of the poets of America. His works, while
expressing the better spirit of our country,
are a voice of human nature and a com-
fort to human hearts: and they possess
that perfection of form without which
poetic expression is incomplete and in-
effective. As a man he was the incarna-
tion of charity, generosity, sweetness and
grace; a man whom to know was to rev-

[Column 3]
erence, and the remembrance of whose
character and example is a continual im-
pulse to virtue. Nothing could better in-
dicate the essential benignity of Longfel-
low’s disposition than the remark he once
made to Miss Anderson: “Never lose an
opportunity of giving pleasure; it will
make you happier and better.”
	Words are unavailing to reproduce the
feeling that Mary Anderson’s acting in-
spired, when, at last, in the prime of her
development, she had attained to her full
intellectual and spiritual stature, and to
the full control of her extraordinary gifts.
Fair; tall; of an imperial figure; her fea-
tures regular; her changeful blue eyes,
placid as a summer lake or blazing with
the fire of roused imagination; her noble
head, enwreathed with its copious wealth
of golden hair; her smile, the diamond
sparkle of morning light; her gestures,
large, wide, graceful, free; her movement,
at times electrical with action, at times
pathetically eloquent of slow, wandering
grief or the stupor of despair; her voice,
clear, smooth, silvery, ranging through
many moods, from the ripple of arch,
bewitching mirth to the low moan of
anguish, the deep whisper of passion or
the clarion note of power—she filled the
scene with her presence, and she filled the
hearts of her audience with a refreshing
sense of delightful, ennobling conviction
of the possible loveliness and majesty of
the human soul. I think that this was the
sum of her service to art and to society.
Many pages might be written about elec-
trical points in her personations of charac-
ter—her denotement of Juliet’s desolation,
after parting, in the lonely midnight, from
the last human being whom she may ever
behold; her revelation of Hermione’s aw-
ful despair, when she covers her face with
her mantle, and falls in deathlike trance;
her simplicity and piquant archness when
giving the flowers, as Perdita, contrasted
with her soul-subduing agony in Bianca’s
supplication to her stony-hearted, exul-
tant, scornful rival; but that would require
the wide domain of an essay, and this is
but a glimpse. The decisive fact suffices
that this actress was one of the authentic
messengers of Heaven who shed a light on
this world and, in the hearts of its weary
workers, rekindled the sacred fires of hope
and trust.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MEMORY SYSTEM.
Forget each kindness that you do
	As soon as you haye done it;
Forget the praise that falls to you
	The moment you have won it;
Forget each slight, each spite, each sneer;
	Wherever you may meet it.

Remember every kindness done
	To you, whate’er its measure;
Remember praise by others won
	And pass it on with pleasure;
Remember every promise made
	And keep it to the letter:
Remember those who lend you aid
	And be a grateful debtor.

Remember all the happiness
	That comes your way in living;
Forget each worry and distress,
	Be hopeful and forgiving;
Remember good, remember truth.
	Remember Heaven’s above you,
And you wiil find, through age and youth,
	True joys and hearts to love you.

Priscilla Leonard in Youth’s Companion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


I WOULD ARISE AND GO UNTO MY
			FATHER.

THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.

To Thine eternal arms, O God,
	Take us, Thine erring children, in;
From dangerous paths too boldly trod,
	From wandering thoughts and dreams of sin.

Those arms were round our childish ways,
	A guard through helpless years to be;
Oh, leave not our maturer days;
	We still are helpless without Thee.

We trusted hope, and pride, and strength; 
	Our strength proved false, our pride was vain,
Our dreams have faded all at length—
	We come to Thee, O Lord, again!

A guide of trembling steps yet be!
	Give us of Thine eternal powers!
So shall all paths lead unto Thee,
	And life smile on like childhood’s hours.


THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN.
	THOMAS MCKELLAR.
lf any man must fall for me to rise,
	Then seek I not to climb. Another’s
		pain
I choose not for my good. A golden
	chain,
A robe of honor is too poor a prize
To tempt my hasty hand to do a wrong 
	Unto a fellow man. This life hath woe
	Sufficient, wrought by man’s Satanic foe;
And who that hath a heart would dare
		prolong
	Or add a sorrow to a stricken soul
	That seeks some healing balm to make
		it whole?
My bosom owns the brotherhood of man;
	From God and truth a renegade is he
	Who scorns a poor man in his poverty,
Or on a fellow lays his supercilious ban.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The general semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, on Thursday, Oct. 3d, 1907.
Meetings to commence at 10 a. m. and 2
p. m., as usual.
	On Monday, Oct. 7, there will be a
testimony meeting in Barratt hall, com-
mencing at 11 o’clock a. m. It is hoped
that there will be a representative from
every stake organization of the society,
and a large attendance of the members.
	The first presidency of the Church,
apostles, patriarch; council of seventy
bishops and other brethren, also the sis-
ters of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
association, are invited to attend the con-
ference.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			General President.
	ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
	IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
				Counselors.

	A Conference of the Relief Society will
be held Thursday, Oct. 3, and Monday,
Oct. 7. The first meeting will convene at
10 a. m. on the first date named, and will
be held in the Assembly hall. President
Bathsheba W. Smith will preside. Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward is musical direc-
tor, Miss Edna Coray, accompanist:
	Hymn, “Come, come ye Saints.”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded.”
	Greeting and welcome, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith.

[Column 2]
	Address, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde.
	Baritone solo. “Grant Us Thy Peace,”
John Robinson.
	Brief reports, stake presidents.
	Hymn, “Lord dismiss us with Thy bles-
sing.”
	Benediction.

	AFTERNOON SESSION, 2 P. M.

	Hymn, Our God we raise to Thee,”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “Come let us anew.”
	Remarks, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Sarah
Jenne Cannon, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, nurse
work instructor.
	Soprano solo, “Heaven Hath Shed a
Tear.” 
	Reminiscences, Sarah M. Cleveland and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, by Mrs.Emmeline
B. Wells.
	Solo, violin obligato by George Skel-
ton, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. 
	Hymn, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Benediction.

	MONDAY 11 A. M. BARRATT HALL.

	Testimony meeting, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith presiding.
	Hymn, Guide Us Oh Thou Great Jeho-
vah.”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “Hail to the Brightness of Zion’s
Glad Morning.”
	Testimonies.
	Contralto solo, “O Morning Land,”
Miss Edna Dwyer.
	Testimonies.
	Hymn, “The Time is Far Spent.”
	Benediction.

AFTERNOON, TWO O’CLOCK ASSEMBLY HALL.

	Third quinquennial of the N. W. R. S.
	Hymn, How Firm a Foundation.”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “O Ye Mountains High.”
	Roll Call: Reading of minutes by the
secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.
	Duet, “Bright be Our Pathway Till We
Meet Again,” Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Ed-
ward and Miss Edna Dwyer.
	Remarks, President Bathsheba W.
Smith.
	Transaction of important business.
	Hymn, “We Thank Thee O God For a
Prophet.” 
	Benediction.

	The third Quinquennial of the National
Woman’s Relief society will convene in
the Salt Lake Assembly hall Monday,
Oct. 7, 1907, at 2 p.m. for the transaction
of important business.
	By order of the president.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
			Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The land of the Nile is beginning to
educate its women, and has just welcomed
its first girl graduate the B. A. degree
having been recently gained by a Moslem
girl student. Within the last few years
female education has made great strides
in Egypt, which now boasts of seven
government schools for girls, the teach-
ers of which have been trained in the
Women’s Normal School at Bonlak.


The dinner party given by Queen Wil-
helmina of Holland to the heads of the 
various delegations to the Peace Confer-
ence at The Hague was one of the memor-
able features of the meeting. The queen
presented to each delegate a beautiful
medal in commemoration of the second
conference in the interests of peace be-
tween all nations. When the dinner was
over Queen Wilhelmina held a reception
and while speaking to Mr. Choate expres-
sed a desire to visit this country.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall will spend the
coming winter in Cambridge, Mass.
	Ex-queen Liliuokalani of Hawaii is to
be married again, this time to Prince Ari
Pal of Tahiti.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	1st. Life and its responsibilities, why
are we here? Unity, love and loyalty in
home.
	2nd. Have an aim in life, that of mak-
ing the home happy. Good cooking an
important factor. Order, cleanliness
environment.
	3rd. Hygiene and sanitation. Preven-
tion of contagious diseases. (1) Plenty of
sleep and fresh air. (2) Care of bed-
rooms, (a) boys, (b) girls. (3) Proper
care of cellar, yards, etc.
	4th. (1) Industry necessary to success.
(2) How to teach children habits of indus-
try. (3) Benefits derived. Idlers shall
not eat the bread of the laborer. D.
C. Sec. 42.
	5th. Obedience (a) Willing. (b) Blind.
Do not expect more from children than
we are willing to do ourselves. Children’s
rights to be respected.
	6th. Courtesy, children should be taught
to be courteous. (1) How? (2) Why?
Courtesy is uplifting as it leads each to
render respect to another.
	7th. Cheerfulness, how obtained. (1)
Show gratitude for blessings. (2) Count
your blessings, not your trials. Do not
always bring another’s faults before
them. Commend their good deeds so
their minds may build upon good rather
than evil.
	8th. Moral training, our girls and boys,
what they shall be taught, and who shall
teach it. Associates; show the evil effect
of going into society too young. Re-
tain the confidence of your children.
How? (1) Share their joys and sorrows.
(2) Never betray a child’s confidence
even to another member of the family.
	9th. Punishment. Is punishment nec
essary and what is its object? What
faults in the parents often result in pun-
ishment for the child? Give examples.
	10th. Reverence for sacred things. (1)
Reverence for Deity. (2) Reverence for
the house of worship. Irreverence comes
mostly from thoughtlessness and not
from desire.
	11th. Give plan for serving. (1) Break-
fast. (2) Dinner. (3) Supper. Give menu
for each.
	12th. Social duties. What claim has
society and the Church on the time of
young mothers? What rights have chil-
dren to entertain in the home? (1) Sab-
bath visiting, and (2) Sabbath night so-
cials.
	HANNAH A. CROSBY, Pres. R. S.
	SARAH D. SYRETT, Sec. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		SEPTEMBER, 1907


[Column 1]
PATRIOTISM AND SUFFRAGE.
	That the Latter-day Saints love their
country goes without saying. But it is
necessary to do something to prove one’s
love. To be sure the boys from Utah
and adjoining states and territories have
gone freely and in some instances gladly
and proudly to the battle if necessary;
like others some have been wounded and 
some have died, and the mothers have
been brave and heroic in giving their sons
to their country’s service even though
their hearts ached at the separation.
	And there are other ways and means
by which women as well as men can prove
their loyalty and without such great sac-
rifice as war demands. Women can help
maintain good government, can assist in
the cause of good citizenship, and it is a
duty as well as a privilege to prepare sons
and daughters to take part in good gov-
ernment. Especially is it essential when
women have equal suffrage as we have in
Utah, Wyoming, Colorado and Idaho,
that they should take advantage of their
opportunities and be active in promoting
good laws, measures and regulations.
This is a valuable use to put one’s ener-
gies to. There is need of woman’s help
and men are not slow to take advantage
of the ballot when they become candi-
dates for election to any office. Very
often women are not vigilant enough to
make themselves acquainted with what is
coming, and their opinion of candidates
and perchance their vote before they are
properly informed concerning the man
or the duty itself.
	By and by election day comes and a
carriage calls for the ladies, and they are
busy with home duties and hurry off with-
out being quite sure how they should vote
if time was given them to consider the
matter. This should not be the case
with any woman with good natural abili-
ty and common sense. Men may be in
precisely the same situation, but usually
men talk about these things, and do make
up their minds and unless over persuaded
generally vote as they mean to.
	Women do not give sufficient attention
to these important matters in many in-
stances. Another phase of the subject is
that women are afraid of the primaries.
And that is where men, and frequently
bad men, go to the primaries in force and
make up a slate and stay there and slide
it through, sending designing, intriguing,
bad men to the conventions, and conse-
quently they put their own kind up to be

[Column 2]
voted for if possible, or mix the names so
that they will get in some of their own
kind.
	The women of Colorado have been in
the past very careful to attend the pri-
maries, but many women are careless in
this respect.
	The writer is well aware that it is not
always a desirable place to go, but if the
women turned out in force they could
soon change the atmosphere of the pri-
maries.
	This year primaries have been held and
delegates for the convention nominated,
etc., etc., but there still remains the vot-
ing for the city officers to be elected in 
November.
	There is yet a chance to vote for the
best men, even if one has let the oppor-
tunity of attending the primaries go by,
and no woman who values her self respect
or the welfare of her family or the public
weal should vote for a disreputable man,
who will stand for the saloon element
and such like immoral places. Ex-
amine every name on the ticket and study
carefully the character of the men whose
names are before the public. This is
true, genuine patriotism. Be sure and
vote, for every woman’s vote counts just
the same as a man’s. It is the impera-
tive duty one owes to the state, the coun-
ty and the city.


[Column 1]
HOLLAND AND THE CAUSE OF PEACE.
	The year 1907 will be remarkable in
many respects; and one very important
and notable event has been a real “Par-
liament of Man.” The first Hague con-
ference in 1899 had representatives from
twenty-six nations only, and that was a
beginning, but this year, 1907, the con-
ference holding its sessions in the “Old
Hall of Knights,” at the Hague, we may
say represented the civilized world. The
forty-six nations whose delegates were
gathered in that august assembly, what-
ever may be the achievements, mark a
significant period in human history.
	Looking backward in history, Holland
has made momentous progress for the
peace and welfare of the world.
	William Penn, in his remarkable essay,
published in Europe in 1693, a few years
before his last visit to Pennsylvania, con-
tains some astonishing statements on the
subject of what is termed today interna-
tional union. One paragraph reads: “The
United States of Holland, established at
Utrecht in 1579, was the great precursor
of the United States of America, and the
prophecy of the United States of Europe.”
	In this age it is apparent that great
powers are working for what the poet
Tennyson, who is so often quoted, called
“the federation of the world.”
	The motto of the Dutch Union was
“By concord little things become great.”
	It is said that the first large and con-
spicuous example in modern history of
liberty and self-government was given by
Holland. Its Dutch Republic antedates
the English Commonwealth as it ante-
dates the planting of New England which
it so signally promoted.
	New England owes a debt to Holland
for its generous hospitality to its exiled
forefathers.
	It is worth while to note the principle
of toleration in the history of Holland;
in this respect one of the greatest writers

[Column 2]
has said Holland led mankind. Motley
says “While religious persecution raged
over all the world besides, this Republic
became the refuge for the oppressed of
all nations.” Not only did our pilgrim
fathers turn to Holland but the perse-
cuted Huguenots in France turned their
faces to Holland when they prayed. In
view of many facts in history relating to
the Dutch Republic and religious tolera-
tion, it is not astonishing, but indeed it
seems a natural consequence that the gos-
ple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints should find so many fol-
lowers in the Dutch provinces, and such
freedom and liberty to teach and preach
its doctrines.
	One of the recent writers of modern
times says, “It was in accord with poetic
justice and the historic fitness of things
that the capital of Holland, the land of
Grotius and Erasmus should have been
chosen as the seat of the most august and
beneficent Congress of modern times;
for such surely history will pronounce the
two Peace Conferences at “The Hague.”
It was from the Government of the Neth-
erlands that the formal invitations went
to the nations. On the beautiful May-
day in 1899 when the first conference
opened, the flags of nearly all civilized
countries were thrown to the breeze from
the public buildings of the Dutch capital,
and in the afternoon the representatives
of twenty-five nations met for the open-
ing ceremonies in the Orange Hall of
the famous “House in the Wood.”
	M. de Beaufort, the Netherlands min-
ster of foreign affairs, called the meeting
to order. He said: “Her Majesty, my
august Sovereign, has put at the disposal
of this Conference the most historical
monument she possesses. This room,
decorated by the greatest artists of the
17th century, was erected by the widow
of Prince Frederick Henry to the mem-
ory of her husband.” He then explained
some of the allegorical figures of great
merit. One where Peace enters the
room to close the Temple of Janus.
He expressed the wish that it might be a
good omen for their labors, and after de-
liberations were concluded they could say
that Peace, which is shown to enter the
room, has gone out for the purpose of
scattering its blessings over all humanity.
It was there that on the 29th of July,
1899, the arbitration convention was
signed, which provided for settling differ-
ences by arbitrament of reason, instead
of arbitrament of arms.
	The corner-stone of the Temple of
Peace at the Hague has been laid in this
memorable summer of 1907, and of the
Parliament of Man; an event of peculiar
significance to Americans because of the
munificent gift of a million and a half of
dollars by Andrew Carnagie. This is the
material semblance of the good time
coming, and may the spiritual influences
also be a prophecy of the true spirit and
power that shall eventually come through
faith in God, and the everlasting gospel,
viz: “Peace on earth and good will among
men,” as foretold by the Divine Master,
the “Prince of Peace.”
	The Latter-day Saints are working for
peace, and for religious toleration in the
strict sense of the word, and they main-
tain the principles for which the Consti-
tution of our country stands, and one of
them is “An asylum for the oppressed of
all nations.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
Lecture I. Self Control.
	He who reigns within himself and
rules passions, desires and fears is more
than a king.” 2nd. Parents should be
masters of themselves. 3rd. Be what
you wish your child to be. Anger begets
anger, love begets love.

Lecture 2. Spiritual Development.
	1st. The progress we make here goes
with us into eternity. 2nd. Insincerity in
religion. At all times be what you seem.
3rd. When you attend meeting go with a
desire to gain a blessing rather than for
pastime.

Lecture 3. Ideal Mothers.
	1st. Do not abuse your bodies by over-
work, for the mental powers are weak-
ened proportionately. 2nd. To govern a
family aright, the mother should enjoy
physical and mental strength. 3rd. Try
to be happy under all circumstances.

Lecture 4. Child Development.
	1st. The forming of brain cells and
nerve centres. 2nd. How to strengthen
a good trait and weaken a bad one. 3rd.
Direct rather than check a child’s act
ivities.

Lecture 5. Respect for all God’s Creat-
		ures.
	1st. “Ridicule is the weapon of
the ignorant.” 2nd. A plain face
and plain clothing should not be the basis
of our estimate of people. 3rd. Should
learn to value the conduct and qualities
of the mind above all else.

Lecture 6. Judge not.
	1st. Be careful in talking of things that
do not concern you. Children easily ac-
quire the habit. 2nd. Be just and merci-
ful in your estimate of people. 3rd. Look
for the good in your fellows and you can
always find it.

Lecture 7. Rights of Children.
	1st. In dealing with children do not
forget you were once a child. 2nd. Over-
indulgence harmful. Self-denial good for
children. 3rd. Do not indulge self and
demand too much of your children. 4th.
Treat them in such a manner that they
will learn self-government.

Lecture 8. Unity of Parents.
	1st. Parents should not oppose each
other in correcting their children. 2nd. 
The wife should not oppose her husband
in business matters, rather suggest and
advise. 3rd. When one parent finds it
necassary to deny a child anything, the 
other parent has no right to indulge the
child in that particular.

Lecture 9. Mothers as Public Workers. 
	1st. Is it selfish for a mother to devote
all her time to her family. 2nd. Benefits
received from working in the Church
organizations. 3rd. Woman’s advance-
ment depends on her own efforts not her
husbands. 4th. The first requisite to a
successful life in any capacity is to love
the work.

Lecture 10. Hospitality.
	1st. A hospitable person is usually un-
selfish, finds pleasure in sharing what he
has with others. 2nd. Hospitality does
not consist in elaborate preparation
alone, but of the kindness that prompts
our treatment of friends 3rd. Give ex-

[Column 2]
amples of what you regard as genuine
hospitality.

Lecture 11. Unselfishness.
	1st. No other quality is so far-reach-
ing in the home as this. The duty of
every member of the family to learn to be
unselfish. 2nd. When one member
shirks his duty the burden falls more
heavily on some other of the family 3rd.
to be a good citizen one must learn to do
his part, and not withhold his services
while he complains of what others are
doing.

Lecture 12. Patience.
	1st. The struggles of life end only in
the grave. Sorrow is the common lot of
all. 2nd. Do not magnify your own
troubles by dwelling on them. 3rd, Bear
in patience all the ills that you cannot
correct, for without a cross there is no
crown.
	ANNIE LAKER, SUSANNA PUGMIRE, EM-
ILY RICHARDS, HERMOINE HART, Commit-
tee.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Orangeville, Wednes-
day, May 15, at 10 a.m. The conference
was well attended by Relief Society sis-
ters and a number of brethren. There was
present besides the Relief Society stake
officers, Sister Margaret A. Caine of the
General Board of Relief Society.
	During the morning session the speak-
ers were President Mary A. Sorensen,
Counselors Caroline A. Guymon and Mary
J. King, Elder Alma Jewkes and Sister
Caine.
	Reports of the Orangeville, Huntington
and Clawson wards were given. An in-
strumenal selection was nicely rendered
by Sister Maggie Cox, and a talk on the
“Life and Works of Emily Hill Wood-
mansee” was ably given by Lucinda
Curtis.
	In the afternoon, reports were given
by the presidents of the Castledale, Wel-
lington, Ferron, Molen, Desert Lake and
Castlegate wards. The speakers were
Sister Annie M. Larsen, Elder U. E. Cur-
tis, Patriarch Franklin D. Young and
Sister Caine. A duet was rendered by
Nettie Crawford and Fannie Cox. May
Poulson sang, “The Picture of My Moth-
er.” Sister  Nathalie Andersen gave a
talk on nursing.
	A good spirit prevailed throughout the
conference, and good singing was fur-
nished by the Orangeville Relief Society,
assisted by the brethren. The day was
perfect and everything seemed to com-
bine to make our conference a success.
	An officers’ meeting was held between
the forenoon and afternoon sessions, at
which Sister Caine gave special instruc-
tions to the officers and teachers.
	ANNIE MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.
		SUMMIT STAKE.
	The Summit Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Coalville, June 16,
1907. Sister Susan Grant of the General
Board and Moses W. Taylor, Thomas L.
Allen and George W. Young of the Stake
Presidency, Prest. Celeste Y. Pack and
Counselor Sarah C. Taylor of the Stake
Relief Society Board were present.

[Column 2]
	After reading the annual report by
Stake Secretary Annie M. Wilson, show-
ing the society to be in a very prosper-
ous condition, Sister Annie Philipps and
Sadie Rasband of Park City sang a beau-
tiful selection.
	Sister Grant then addressed the con-
ference. She was very much gratified
with the splendid report of the presidents
throughout the stake, and spoke at some
length in regard to storing grain and Re-
lief Society work in its various lines.
	Sister Priscilla Evans of Coalville sang,
“Change Not the Old for the New.”
Sister Mary H. Neeley read a paper on
the “Mother’s work.” Prest. Moses W.
Taylor appreciated the work done by the
Relief society of the Summit stake, par-
ticularly in caring for the sick and poor.
Sister Mattie Salmon Baker of Alberta,
Canada, sang a solo.
	Prest. Pack was pleased with the unity
existing throughout the wards in the
stake and the general prosperous con-
dition of the same. Fourteen of the sev-
enteen wards were represented at the
conference.
	An officers’ meeting was held in the
Relief Society hall on Saturday and Sun-
day morning, the hall being crowded to
its utmost, many having to stand.
		MARY H. NEELEY, Sec.

		WASATCH STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Wasatch
Stake was held on Sunday, June 16, 1907,
in the Stake tabernacle, Heber, President
Annie R. Duke presiding. After opening
exercises, a welcome address was given
by Sister Lovisa Alexander, she was
pleased to see so many present and was
thankful for the beautiful sunshine and
for all the many blessings received. She
knew this was a glorious work.
	The reports that were given show that
the 9 wards in the Stake are in a flourish-
ing condition, the sisters are trying to do
all the good they can. The attendance
in some of the wards is not what it should
be.
	Sisters Elizabeth Wilcox and Dr. Ellis
R, Shipp of the general board were pres-
ent at the morning session, but returned
home in the afternoon. Sister Wilcox
was pleased to hear the reports that were
given. She spoke about mothers attend-
ing to their meetings but not to neglect
her children to do so. The greatest ob-
ject of a mother’s life is to take care of
her children.
	The object of the Relief Society when
first organized was to relieve the poor
and help the sick, and it is also for the
saving of souls. The sisters should
become acquainted with the principles of
the Gospel. If we do not do some good
each day we are not doing our duty. We
should ask in humility every day for the
Lord to help us. She knew the mother’s
work was a grand work and was growing
rapidly. She urged the necessity of train-
ing nurses, that the mothers and little
ones might have the proper care. She
commented on the work of teachers, felt
that they were the backbone of the soci-
ety. “Mothers should know where their
children are at night. Provide the prop-
er kind of amusement and make home
pleasant and attractive that they will love
to stay at home.”
	Paper, “True object of the Relief So-
ciety Work, by Amelia Cluff. Song by
Brother Roberts and company.


[Column 1]
	Sister Shipp thought if we could put
into practice the good things we have
heard we have sufficient said. She said
she brings the greetings of Sister Smith,
who is interested in you. Made mention
of the opportunities the Latter-day Saints
have and what an honored people they
are. “Can there be a truer mission than
a wife and a mother? She needs knowl-
edge all that she can obtain to make her
a better woman. She can teach her in-
fant obedience. Control your home by
love, it will do more good than anything
else. Mothers must be cheerful and agree-
able under all circumstances. Teach
children to be prayerful and honor the
Priesthood.”
	President Joseph R. Murdock endorsed
all that had been said. He would like to
see every good woman in this Stake of
Zion enrolled in the Relief Society, that
was the place for them. He knew the
sisters were doing a good work. Urged
the sisters to subscribe for the Exponent.
	In the afternoon session General Presi-
dent B. W. Smith’s address was read by
Sister Margaret Murdock. Recitation,
Millie Montgomery.
	Remarks by Sister Ann Murdock one
of the first members of the Relief Society
in this Stake of Zion.
	Elders E. D. Clyde, and James C. Jen-
sen of the Presidency spoke a short time.
William Young, a returned missionary
from New Zealand spoke a few minutes
and also sang a song.
				Stake Secretary.

		WOODRUFF.
	Minutes of Woodruff Stake Relief
Society Conference held at Lyman, June
15, 1907, Stake President Sarah Tyson
presiding. From the general board Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth and visiting sister,
Lydia Morris, of Salt Lake City, were
present. After the usual opening exer-
cises Stake President Tyson made a few
opening remarks, she was pleased to see
so many young sisters present, and ex-
horted all to attend to their Relief Society
duties.
	Counselor Ellen Anderson of Lyman
reported their society in good condition.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of the
noble pioneers, read from the Exponent
President Bathsheba W. Smith’s greeting
to the sisters. Also spoke of the San
Francisco disaster, and of what the Re-
lief Society had done for them. Said we
were growing in intelligence, and we
should endeavor to cultivate our talents.
Spoke of the poor and of the annual do-
nation and by doing those things we were
fulfilling our duties. Referred to the
lectures of the mothers’ work, wished the
young sisters especially to take interest in
them.
	Sister Ida Hamblin sang “Guide me to
Thee.”
	Sister Morris expressed her willingness
to do what she could for the Relief Soci-
ety, thought there was so much we could
do in that direction.
	Brother George Eyer spoke of the lab-
ors of the sisters in the Relief Society
and what a grand organization it was,
closed by invoking the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Counselor H. Telford thought the
mothers’ work was a great help to us,
spoke of the necessity of storing grain,
said it was a commandment from the ser-

[Column 2]
vants of the Lord. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. with singing and benedic-
tion.
	Afternoon session of the Relief Society,
presided over by Stake President
Tyson. After opening exercises, Moun-
tain View Relief Society was reported by
President Graham: Randolph by Presi-
dent Celia Spencer in good condition and
fully organized; Cumberland was re-
ported doing fairly well.
	Solo sung by Ada Rollins.
	The general and Stake officers were
presented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of the
woman’s building and of the storing of
grain, said we should not care what the
people of the world say, so that we are
keeping the commandments of God.
Wondered if the mothers realized the
positions they occupy in raising children,
there is nothing that should interest us
more than the care of our children, they
are our jewels which God gives to us. Ad-
vised us to visit the sick and not be
boastful. We should endeavor to grow
better and wiser every day so that we
may be prepared to go back to our Father
in heaven and receive our reward.
	A musical selection by the Osborn
sisters was rendered. Sister Morris, mis-
sionary, thought it was a great thing to be
called to this work. God is merciful and
overlooks a great many of our faults. He
knows our desires and will bless us ac-
cordingly. Said we should not be dis-
contented with our homes, for the Lord
had work for us to do here He will rule
the elements for our sake.
	Bishop Graham of Mountain View made
a few remarks. Bishop S. Brough thought
that the Spirit of the Lord had been with
us, felt well and gave us good instruction.
	Solo sung by Minna Marshall.
	President Tyson felt to rejoice for we
have had a good time, we should have
the Spirit of humility, and faith, and
“Count our many blessings,” should visit
those in distress and honor the aged,
cease finding fault with each other, culti-
vate the spirit of prayer.
	Closed by singing and benediction.
		KATIE H. EPPICH, Stake Sec.

				NEBO.
	The quarterly conference of the Nebo
Stake Relief Society was held at Payson,
July 19, 1907, President Eliza J. Dixon
presiding. After the opening exercises,
Sister Dixon welcomed the people to our
conference and was proud to have sisters
from the general board with us; gave a
brief report of the Relief Society work.
Nebo Stake owns 8 halls and 9 granaries
with 1095 bushels of wheat. Our object
is to have our children grow up to be
good Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Ann Nebeker recited Peti Pat
and Tipe Toe. Lesson on parents class
work given by Sister Edna Brockbank,
subject, habit; she also read a poem,
“Hanging Pictures on Memory’s Walls.”
	Song, Sisters Quigley and Daniels,
“The Old Homestead.”
	Sister Hattie B. Harker, missionary
from the general board spoke on the
cares of mothers, both in the family and
outside, in helping others by older sisters
giving their experience to the younger
sisters in raising their families. “We are
all working for the one great cause. We
benefit ourselves as we benefit others, it
is better to give than to receive, and

[Column 3]
blessed is he that giveth, my father
taught that if I administered to the wants
of the aged, that the Lord would take
care of me in old age.” She also spoke
of inspiring others to do their duty.
	Morning session closed with singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session. President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. After singing and
prayer Sister Annie Wells Cannon of the
General Board spoke for some time.
Prayed for the Spirit of the Lord to be
with us all; said President Bathsheba W.
Smith sends her love to the sisters of the
Relief Society, as she is not able to visit
them personally on account of her many
duties and Temple work, but her love and
interest are still with the sisters who are
engaged in this work. “I feel this after-
noon that the Spirit of the Lord is with
us, those that are working for the Master
are making for themselves a heaven.”
Sister Cannon talked of the mother’s
work, we are proud of our Relief Society,
and above all, sisters, be proud of moth-
erhood, the happiest time in our lives is
when our children are small, then is
when we can teach them. Don’t let
them say anything against the Priest-
hood. Tell them good stories. She also
spoke of the moral condition of the young,
advised the Relief Society to take up a
work with the young, uplift and better their
moral and spiritual condition. Advised
mothers not to send their daughters to
Salt Lake to work on account of the evil
influences they are liable to come in con-
tact with, said that there was a commit-
tee of sisters to get good homes for those
who do come to Salt Lake to work; spoke
of our girls going to other towns and set-
tlements to parties and riding home late,
felt it was imprudent. Relief Society
teachers should be the very best women
in the wards, and pray for the Lord to
guide them in their labors, and live just
as near like the Master as possible.
We need the young women and the
young women need the Relief Society.
Sister Cannon spoke of storing grain
against a day of famine, felt that when we
lend our wheat we should have good se-
curity. Advised us to read the Testament
every day, especially when we are dis-
couraged. She mentioned especially the
Savior and His prayer while He was in
the garden of Gethsemane, and of His
forgiving spirit.
	Sister H. B. Harker also spoke on the
Garden of Gethsemane, and felt, we
should understand the Gospel ourselves
and then we can teach it to our children.
We should teach our sons as well as our
daughters morality, and if we don’t have
much of this world’s goods have their
hearts pure. Spoke of the nurses class
as a noble work for our sisters in Zion
and that the nurses’s class would com-
mence in September. Dr. Shipp to con-
duct the work. Spoke of the Woman’s
Exponent and advised the sisters to sub-
scribe for that valuable paper.
	Brother Swenson, a member of the
High Priests quorum, spoke a short time.
Said try all we could to have all our sis-
ters enrolled in the Relief Society. Our
whole souls should be for the welfare of
ourselves and our brothers and sisters.
	Song by Sister Ivy Done, entitled “I
need Thee every hour.”
	Brother Beddoes another member of
the High Priests quorum addressed the
conference, said that the Lord would fit


and qualify us to fulfill out duty and gave 
some very good instructions. 
	General and Stake officers of the Relief 
Society presented and sustained unani-
mously. 
	President Lemmons said that the Gos-
pel should be taught at home, said that 
there was no organization in the Church 
that was more help to the Bishopric than 
the Relief Society. 
	Sister Dixon announced that our next 
conference will be held in the Tintic dis-
trict Sep. 21, thanked the sisters and all 
who had taken part in helping to make 
the conference a success. Closed by 
singing doxology, and benediction.
				Eliza A. Hawkins,
						Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
MRS AMY LORETTE (CHASEI BIGLER was born 
in Lincoln, Addison County, Vermont, Novem-
ber 7th, 1822, her father died when she was seven 
years old; she was eighteen years of age when 
she first heard the gospel of Jesus Christ; her 
Uncle Ezra Chase came to Vermont aud converted 
her to the faith in the fall of 1840; three years 
later she, with her mother and two brothers, went 
to Nauvoo, on June 18th, 1844, she was married 
to Jacob B. Bigler, just nine days before the 
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum 
were martyred. She came to Utah in the fall of 
1852 and made her home at Nephi, Juab County, 
Utah, where she died June 8th 1907, fifteen weeks 
to the day after the death of her husband, Patri-
arch Jacob G. Bigler. Sae was the mother of 10
children, 8 of whom are still living. She was 
beloved by all who knew her, and lived and 
died a faithful Latter-day Saint. She was one of 
the noble workers in the Relief Society cause and 
held responsibe positions in the Society. She was 
chosen as secretary when it was first organized in 
Nephi in the year of 1868 and held that office in 
honor until 1879 when the Stake Relief Society 
was organized, then she was chosen as stake sec-
retary, and in the year of 1883 she was chosen 
counselor to the Stake President: she held that 
office until old age and poor health came and she
resigned.
	She was at Relief Society just a week before 
she was taken sick and bore a strong testimony to 
the truthfulness of the gospel of Christ. 
	She was a subscriber to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT from the time it was first published. 
She has gone to receive the reward of a faithful 
and well-spent life.				COMMUNICATED.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT FOR SISTER ELIZABETH
				GASSMAN.
			Kind words cost nothing. 
		In the midst of life there is death. 
	Whereas, our Father in heaven has, in His in-
finite mercy removed from among us our worthy 
and dearly loved sister, Elizabeth Gassman; and 
whereas, the long and intimate relation with her 
in the faithful discharge of her duties in this So-
ciety as secretary and president, makes it fitting 
that we record our appreciation. 
	Wherefore resolved, that the wisdom and ability 
which she exercised in our midst by service and 
counsel will be held in grateful remembrance. 
	Resolved, that the removal of such a life from 
among our number leaves a vacancy and a shad-
ow that will be deeply realized by all the mem-
bers of this society, and a serious loss to the com-
munity because of the exemplary life she lived. 
	Resolved, that we deeply symyathize with the 
bereaved family and pray our heavenly Father 
to sustain and comfort them in the hour of trial; 
we express our hope that even so great a loss to 
us all may be overruled for good by Him who 
doeth all things well. 
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be 
recorded in the record book of the Relief Society, 
a copy publishd in the Woman's Exponent, and a 
copy handed to the bereaved family.
							Millie Hooper,
	Elizabeth Robbins, whose play, ‘‘Votes
for Women,” is one of the sensations of 
London, is a native of Louisville, Ky.


OBITUARY. 
	In memory of Sister Mary A. Packer, who de-
parted this life February 19, 1907. 
	Sister Packer was a willing and faithful worker, 
a ministering angel to the sick, and a true Latter-
day Saint. She has filled many positions of honor 
and trust in the Layton ward. She was president 
of the Yonng Ladies’ Association for a number 
of years, also a teacher in the Sunday School. At 
the time of her death she was a counselor in the 
Relief Society. 
	We feel that we have lost a wise counselor and 
a true friend; but our loss is her eternal gain. 
We hope to meet her again where pain and sorrow 
are unknown.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Layton Ward 
Relief Society, that we mourn the loss and appre-
ciate the purity of her life. 
	That we extend to the bereaved family our sin-
cere sympathy, and pray God that His comforting 
influence may be with them; for there is joy and 
comfort in the knowledge that Sister Packer is en-
titled to all the blessings promised to the faithful. 
Resolved, that a copy of these resoltuions be 
presented to the family, and a copy placed on tha 
records of the Relief Society of Layton, Arizona, 
and a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent.
(Signed)			Alice K. Beebe, President.
				Mamie Freeson, Secretary.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS. 
		BEAR LAKE. 
	Minutes of the Bear Lake Relief Socie-
ty Conference which was held in the Tab-
ernacle at Paris, August 18th, 1907, with a 
very good attendance.
	Officers’ meeting, 10 a.m. 
	President Julia P. Lindsay presiding. 
She said there were a great many who 
neglected their duties, but she knew our 
Father in heaven would wake them up to 
their line of duty. Spoke of how well 
she felt about our paper, the valuable 
EXPONENT for women, and we should 
support it better than we do. We have 
Sister Grant with us, also Sister Shipp. 
Felt well in having some of the Stake 
Presidency present to back them. It has 
been said by way of encouragement that 
the Relief Society is the most interesting, 
thrifty and independent auxiliary organi-
zation in the Church. She believed the 
Latter-day Saints to be the best people 
on earth, although the people of the 
world are so beautifully dressed and re-
fined in manners, she would not for any-
thing in the world, change with them; 
we have the gospel and the spirit of revel-
ation. How we are blessed, we should al-
ways give with a charitable feeling, then 
the ones that receive would rejoice and 
be happy indeed; but remember we are 
all getting old, should not be harsh. The
Teacher’s duties are very great; always 
carry a smile. The money you collect 
is nothing in comparison to the comfort 
you may be; you can all do some good, 
when in the line of duty. May the Lord 
bless us all. 
	Sister Susan Grant was pleased to hear 
the instructions to teachers, and would 
have been very much pleased to have 
seen more present; very much pleased 
to konw you  have grain  and places to 
keep it. It is very gratifying to have 
house and lot of your own in which to 
meet. Should keep good records; and 
those that have not granaries should hur-
ry and get them and store wheat; should
also be punctual at your meetings. The 
Prophet Joseph Smith said that every 
virtuous woman should have her name 
enrolled, because from the books we shall 
be judged. Was pleased to hear the EX-

[Column 2]
PONENT spoken of, and wish every Sister 
would take that paper and sustain it bet-
ter, Sister Emmeline B. Wells is such 
a busy woman and still attends to our 
valuable paper, and she does so very much 
other work that we very often wonder 
how she can accomplish so much. May 
we be faithful in our mission and strive 
to do what is right. 
	President W. Rich was pleased to meet 
with us in officers’ meeting. Thought 
we got more substance out of these meet-
ing. We should sustain our paper. It 
softens the heart of a Sister when she is 
helping any one. Have been interested in 
meeting with you. Let us be strong and 
steadfast in our efforts to do good. 

	Eight annual conferences of the Relief 
Society of this stake have been held in 
the Tabernacle of Paris. 
		Sunday, August 18th, 1907, 2 p.m. 
	After the choir and congregation sang, 
prayer was offered and singing. 
	The Sacrament was administered, and 
while it was being dispensed, the sweetest 
music was rendered by the choir. 
	President Lindsay said, There is a spirit 
of love and union among our sisters of 
this stake, but some are careless in at-
tending our meetings. Prayed God to 
bless the sisters who are with us that 
they may say something that will help us 
in our work. 
	Sister Grant said she did not feel timid 
in speaking in the presence of our breth-
ren as she once did; she came to instruct 
the sisters; knew that President Lindsay 
had the love and respect of the sisters; 
and when the time comes for her release of 
life, will feel a satisfaction in knowing 
she has done her duty. It is our duty to 
help the Priesthood whenever they need 
help, in addition to the labor of caring 
for the sick and the poor. The speaker 
dwelt at some length on the importance 
of implanting faith in the hearts of our 
children; should teach them while very 
young to pray to our heavenly Father; 
we should teach by example. She en-
joyed the love and confidence of her 
brothers and sisters more than anything 
else. Did not come with any new doc-
trine, but to remind us of our duties, for 
we are all forgetful. She was one of the 
few who knew the Prophet Joseph and 
Patriarch Hyrum; was twelve years old 
when they were martyred. The Prophet 
was a superior-looking man; there are 
none of his pictures that do him justice. 
We are always blessed in blessing others. 
Prayed God to bless all who are engaged 
in this noble work. 
	Sister Shipp said: With the great res-
ponsibility resting upon me, I feel timid; 
we are here to fill a sacred mission; we 
should make our homes all they should 
be and beautify them; woman’s mission
is to make others happy; husband and 
wife should work together and help each 
other in their labors with the children. 
In her early life, had a happy home; nev-
er heard her father and mother speak a 
cross word to each other. Spoke of the 
sacredness of the marriage covenant and 
of the seriousness of divorces. Spoke of 
the faithfulness of President Lindsay 
who is now eighty-four years of age, and 
the joy she feels in laboring; she does 
not wait to be waited upon for work is 
what brings joy to the soul. Clean homes 
and beds, good nourishing food and a smile


and a kiss for the children are what is 
needed. We have more old people 
among us than they have among other 
peoples; we can attribute this to the 
keeping of the Word of Wisdom; related
instances showing that those who refrain 
from stimulants are the strongest and the 
brightest men and women. My heart 
is full of love for the brethren and sisters. 
President Lindsay reminded the sisters 
of erecting granaries for storing wheat, 
also suggested that each association fur-
nish the means for their president to at-
attend conference. 
President Richards spoke of the impor-
tance of the teachers, that their great 
object is not only to gather means but 
to teach  and expound the principles of 
the gospel to cheer the Saints. Prayed 
God to help all who are engaged in this 
great organization as many are not yet 
converted to this great work and do not 
know what is being done by the sisters. 
Choir sang—“Sweet is the work, my 
God, my King."
	Closing prayer by Counselor Mary 
Bagely. 
LOUISE TUELLER, 
Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Indiana Lsgislature has passed a
bill providing for the State care of the
grave of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, the
mother of Abraham Lincoln.
	The Empress Eugenie at 81 still takes
a long walk every morning and still
entertains her friends at the end of every
week.
	Miss Helen McKinley, niece of the late
president, will unveil the statue at the
dedication of the McKinley Mausoleum,
September 30. But there will not be a
woman among the speakers, although Mc-
Kinley was a suffragist.
	Nowadays even women of title engage
in trade. The Duchess of Sutherland,
when she visited Russia, packed her
trunk with samples of highland tweed,
and used them to drum up a market for
the goods, from which she has been called
the ‘‘drummer duchess.”
	A new woman’s paper has been started
in St. Petersburg, called “The Woman’s
Union.” It is published by the Russian
Union of Defender’s of Woman’s Rights,
and is edited by its secretary, Mrs. Tche-
koff. The new periodical is welcomed by
the progressive papers of Russia.
	The call is issued for the Annual Exec-
utive Session of the National Council of
Women of the United States, which will
be held in the Woman’s Building, James-
town Exposition, October 1-5. The local
arrangements are under charge of Mrs.
Kate Waller Barrett. vice-president-at-
large, who is spending the season at the
Exposition in charge of the Headquarters
at the National Council.

[Column 2]
Mrs. Laura E. Cook, 55 years old, has
built herself a house with her own hands.
Sixteen months ago she bought a lot for
$1,000 on a bleak hillside in Elmdale,
Cal. She has transformed it into a scene
of beauty with a terraced garden, flowers
and shrubbery. She planned the house,
laid the foundations. built the retaining
wall, sawed and fitted the lumber, erect-
ed the chimney and put on the shingles.
The place shows excellent workmanship,
and she has been offered $5,000 for it, but
will not sell.
	Ann Shreeve, who lately died in Eng-
land at the age of 89, had been 51 years
to a day in the service of the Countess of
Swhrewsbury. The obituary announce-
ment said she had been for 51 years the
“friend and faithful servant of the Dow-
ager Countess of Shrewsbury.” Lady
Shrewsbury seems to have had no trouble
in keeping her servants. A maid who
entered her service when the countess
was a girl of fourteen stayed with her till
the infirmities of old age forced her to
rest. Her cook also has spent a lifetime
in her service.
	Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, the earliest
woman physician, now eighty-six and a
half years old, was taking a pleasure trip
through Scotland this summer with her
adopted daughter, when she met with a
bad fall down a flight of stairs and was
found insensible at the bottom. Such an
accident was likely to leave serious con-
sequences for a woman of her age, and
her friends at once sent for a trained
nurse. But Dr. Blackwell, who had
luckily broken no bones, scouted the aid
of the nurse, emphatically refused to be
“made an invalid of,” and on the second
day came down to meals as usual. She
has since returned to her home at Hast-
ings, England.
	Mrs. Sheldon Leavitt, the wife of one
of Chicago’s most noted physicians, has
started a circulating art gallery for the
hospital patients of that city. She has
made a large collection of paintings, and
these, through a central agency, will be
moved from hospital to hospital for the
enjoyment of the needy sick. “I have
grown tired of the aimless round of soci-
ety,” Mrs. Leavitt is reported as saying,
“and have withdrawn, to devote the rest
of my life to work that will improve the
lot of the sick poor. I thought a good
start might be made through having them
see beautiful pictures. Pictures do so
much for the sick room and for a despon-
dent invalid.” 
	Mrs. Thomas F. Ryan, wife of the
noted financier, has received the title of
Countess from Pope Pius X, in recogni-
tion of her numerous benefactions. With
unlimited means at her command, she is
said to give away a million dollars a year
in a practical and systematic manner,
maintaining an office and a corps of
clerks, who attend to the details of dis-
tribution. She has built one cathedral,
five churches, numerous chapels, and two

[Column 3]
hospitals, endowed rooms in several hos-
pitals, erected monuments to mark all of
Virginia’s battlefields, founded thirteen
scholarships for boys and scholarships for
poor girls at sixteen colleges, and has given
generously to many other religious, educa-
tional and charitable institutions. Ex.


AN OBJECT LESSON.
	Philadelphia, when the schools opened
this fall turned away 5000 children entire-
ly, for lack of seats, and put 15,000 on
half time—an injustice both to the chil-
dren, who get only half the schooling
they ought, and to the teachers who have
the double fatigue of teaching everything
twice over, to two relays of pupils.
	The schools fall short by 20,000 seats
of being able to accommodate the chil-
dren who actually apply. If the compul-
sory education law were carried out the
shortage would be much greater.
	And what sort of accommodation do
those children who succeed in getting into
the schools. In his report last June to
the Board of Education the new Superin-
dent of Schools, Dr. Martin G. Brum-
baugh said:
	"It is a fact that the children are sitting
on broken benches, that they are sitting
on boards in the aisles between benches,
that they are sitting on boxes, that they
are sitting on window sills and that in
some cases they are actually sitting on
the floor, in the schools in Philadelphia.
All of these conditions I have personally
and with great distress to myself, been
obliged in the last four months to witness.
We are prepared at any time to lay before
you a list of schools which have furni-
ture which any fair-minded individual
would pronounce unfit for the use of the
children. Speaking well within the facts
it is safe to say that there are at least
$25,000 such desks in the schools of Phila-
delphia."
	Yet Philadelphia has money enough to
spend on luxuries. Only two months ago
the city fathers voted $50,000 of pub-
lic funds to entertain the Benevolent
and Protective Order of Elks and then
gave $10,600 more to make merry with
the Patriotic Order of the Sons of
America. A large part of the $60,000
came out of women's tax money. If the
city mothers had had any voice in the
spending of it, they would have provided
seats and desks for the schools before
launching out into lavish and needless
entertaining.
	Philadelphia is one of the richest cities
in the world. She squanders millions
on graft, and scrimps on the children's
education. Most of our big cities do
the same.
	Are women's wishes "represented"
in the way their tax money is spent?
		A. S. B. in Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.				 —TRY US

[Column 2]
	RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	The several stakes of Zion are hereby
notified that the Relief Society Nurse
Class for this year will begin in Septem-
ber at the first session of the L. D. S.
University.
	The important work is under the aus-
pices of the general Board of the Relief
Society, who desire the earnest co-opera-
tion of all ward and stake presidents.
			ELLIS R. SHIPP. M. D.,
						Instructor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home; the State and the Nation.
