Vol. 36.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1908.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions.............Emmeline B. Wells	57
A Grand and Happy Day.......Louisa Gray	59
Relief Society Report:—Nebo Stake.........	59
Mothers’ Work:—Parowan Stake..............	61
	Uintah Stake—Blackfoot Stake.......	62
Resolutions................................................	63
In Memory.................................................	63
In Memoriam.............................................	63
A Tribute....................................................	64
History of the U. W. Press Club.................	64
Notes and News................................. 58 and 64
Relief Society Conference.........................	60
D. R. New York City.................................	61
Editorial:—An Artistic Booklet................	60
	Seventy-Eighth Annual Conference.	60
	Editorial Notes..................................	60
Poetry:—Daughters of Zion......................
	..........................Annie Wells Cannon	57
	Love is Sancitified.....Lydia D. Alder	59
	The Good Old Days.....Ellis R. Shipp	59


DAUGHTERS OF ZION.
Song, written for the Relief Society Conference,
				April 1908.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
		[Tune—Kathleen Mavourneen.]
Long, long ago on the banks of the river
Where lies the fair city of lovely Nauvoo,
There wandered a man rapt in deep meditation—
’T was Joseph, the Prophet, so brave and so true.
The light of the heavens shone brightly above
	him,
A message celestial came sweetly and clear:
“To Israel’s fair daughters reveal the glad tid-
	ings,
A mission of mercy for them to revere;
Daughters of Zion! rejoice evermore!

“Oh daughters of Zion, Jehovah has spoken:
Go forth in all gladness, and kindness, and love,
No longer in doubt—for your thraldom is broken,
Relieve the sad-hearted, your tenderness prove;
Go comfort the weary, give cheer to the lonely,
Remember the aged, forget not the poor;
Heaven’s sweet blessings will surely await you;
Daughters of Zion rejoice evermore,
Daughters of Zion rejoice evermore.

“The mourner, the sufferer, the orphan, the
	childless,
All call for your sympathy, tenderness, care;
Relief is your motto, and labor your watchword,
Be thoughtful and gentle, let love be your prayer.
Let wisdom and faith guide your footsteps for-
	ever
As forward you follow your labor of love,
Let joy fill your heart,—and weary, no never;
For heaven and the angels shower smiles from
	above!
Daughters of Zion, rejoice evermore.”


Mrs. Roosevelt is said to be opposed to
a third term for the President, having grown
very tired of the formal official social round
in which she has lived during the past seven
years. She is one of the busiest women in
official circles in Washington.


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	A saintly face and a great mother-heart,
		So rich in grace and charity thou art,
	That evermore our reverence shall be
		A loving tribute to thy memory.
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
		And future generations bless thy name.
									E. B. W.

	These lines were written for the card on
which was the picture of Zina D. H.
Young to present to her many friends on the
occasion of her seventy-fifth birthday anni-
versary at a banquet given by the Relief So-
ciety, in the Templeton Hotel, January 31,
18963, and the verse is so expressive of the
woman, that I thought it a good opening to
the personal impressions I am about to
give of this famous Mother in Israel.
	I remember many years ago, when I was
quite young, of saying, “Aunt Zina has a
real Madonna face,” and throughout my life
I carried the thought whenever and where-
ever I saw her; to us who knew and worked
with her, Zina D. H. Young needs no en-
comium of praise, but to the younger women
of today and those yet to come upon the
stage of action in this Church, she should
be represented in prose, in poetry, in pic-
tures that will give to them an idea of her
beautiful personality. 
	I hesitate in writing of such good women
as those with whom I have been associated
in the Church, knowing how impossible it
is to convey the true merits of the nobility
of their characters to those, who were not
familiar with them in life. 
	The writer implicitly believes that Zina
Diantha Huntington inherited from a fam-
ous ancestry many of the talents so wonder-
fully developed in her own life under cir-
cumstances and with environments and sur-
roundings so unfavorable, in many respects
to growth and culture, and without what the
world terms superior advantages. To me
Aunt Zina was the embodiment of all that
was loveliest in Motherhood, and I speak
the word Motherhood with the utmost rever-
ence possible to a nature that holds this
condition of woman eminently superior. 
	Sister Zina was known throughout the
Church and was as greatly beloved perhaps,
as any woman who has stood in high places,
among the great heroes and heroines of
Zion. She was a born physician, and came
of a long line of men of that profession. She
was what is termed in our day, a “natural
healer,” one realized as soon as she entered
the sick room the influence of her presence,
and as I have often remarked, she carried
about with her the “balm of Gilead.”
The motherly element so designated in
modern times, together with the gift of heal-
ing so largely developed by her through the
gifts and inspiration of the Gospel, gave to
“Aunt Zina” that intense sympathy with
misfortune and suffering, that brings one
into close communion with the hearts and
inner lives of those to whom they minister.
She was generously endowed with that true
charity which hopeth all things, and in the
exercise of these sacred gifts she so distin-
guished herself among the sick and the sor-

[Column 2]
rowing as to gain the appellation of “Zina,
the Comforter.”
	Strictly religious in mind and character,
inheriting from her Puritan ancestry those
strong elements of endurance, for her faith,
zeal and devotion in the exercise of her be-
lief and religious liberty, and spiritual and
inspirational in that degree that is uplifting
in its tendency and effect, was the impres-
sion she made upon me. 
	Humility was one of Aunt Zina’s crown-
ing virtues, yet she had the courage to face
difficulties that to many would be appalling,
and the fortitude and endurance that knows
no wavering and is in itself a triumph. 
	Throughout the land of Zion and wherever
the gospel has been spread the names of
Sister Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young
are heralded and linked together. Their
lives fitted into each other admirably, and
together they labored for the good of hu-
manity, and particularly for womanhood and
the youth of Zion. 
	Sister Zina will, I trust, be remembered
for her indefatigable labors in the silk indus-
try. This people owe much to her efforts in
many directions. In all the details of
work, and in the hardships of pioneer life,
Sister Zina had an abundant share. The
early pioneer women had to make their own
soap, candles, starch, molasses, and what-
ever was needed without machinery of
any kind; and there was carding, spinning,
dyeing, knitting, weaving, besides ordinary,
regular, everyday duties; in all these
Sister Zina took part. Through all these
and manifold other experiences, Sister Zina
still retained that gentleness of spirit that
won the hearts of her coworkers and en-
deared her to all her associates; she pos-
sessed that rare delicacy of sympathy which
brings to the human heart sweet consolation
when under the most painful afflictions.
The gentle ministrations of women have
been beautifully portrayed by poets and
writers and by artists and sculptors, but
none of the artificial productions can bring
to the human soul the exquisite rendering of
divine power, which comes through human
tenderness in the hour of supreme need. 
	Sister Zina was a wonderfully gifted pub-
lic speaker, her tones were thrilling, and
her voice and manner always pleasing. 
	She impressed me as one greatly favored
of the Lord, and her presence among the
women of Zion was like a benediction. Vol-
umes might be written of her, and yet “the
half not be told.”
	“Wherein her very look
		We read her face as one who reads,
	A true and holy book.”

	Zina Diantha Huntington Young was born
at Watertown, New York State, January 3,
1821. Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, August
28, 1901.

	In dwelling upon the lives of the great
women whom I have known; and with whom
my lot has been cast, it is comparatively
easy to say a great deal, but not so when
one must single out a few prominent char-
acteristics. 
	The writer has in the past published
much concerning these heroic women, and


[Column 1]
now only wishes to present a glimpse, as it
were, a sort of pen picture from her own
point of view. Certainly Mary Isabella
Hales Horne was in herself a pillar of
strength, one saw it in her firmly built fig-
ure, her open countenance, the poise of
her head, and the way it set upon her
shoulders. Her brow denoted wisdom, (I
am neither phrenologist, nor skilled in
any science of a similar kind) but I can
see things clearly when I know the people.
To me it seems that the first glance of this
grand woman would assure one of her sub-
stantiality.
	M. Isabella Horne was a born leader, a
sort of General among women and indeed
in this respect might surpass most men, of
extraordinary ability; she really was intensely
English, though she was, as we say, Ameri-
canized. I should call her a perfect Eng-
lish type. She probably came of a race of
strong, valiant, heroic men and women. I
know not, but would judge so. At all events
she was a woman who could stand alone for
a principle in which she believed, opposition
would have no effect to weaken her, when
once she had made up her mind she was
right. Such women are sorely needed
in the battle of life, when there are wrongs
to be righted. You could rely upon her
integrity and uprightness in all places and
at all times; fearless of the foe, no crouch-
ing, no half measures, everywhere she main-
tained the dignity of her position, in what-
ever place she was called to fill. A woman
of great force of character, and wonderful
ability, such a one as might stand at the
head of a great institution and carry it on
successfully. Full of fidelity in friendship,
one always knew she would not fail in any
of the relations of comradeship, or sister-
hood. Her tenacity of purpose and her
grasp of great and grave questions, problems
even, were of a high order of statesmanship.
Even President Young once nominated her
for Justice of the peace, and in character and
ability to judge, she was not unlike Deborah
of old, or Queen Elizabeth of more modern
times, who instituted and carried forward
some of the greatest reforms.
	Sister Horne can appropriately be called a
stalwart, a champion for the rights of her
own sex, and indeed for all mankind.
Withal she was a woman of a strong relig-
ious nature, and had the utmost reverence
for sacred things and holy ordinances; firm
as the everlasting hills in the faith tof the
Gospel.
	Sister Horne had a fine presence on the
platform, or in the pulpit, spoke with great
earnestness and was wise in her utterances,
prophetic in nature, familiar with the scrip-
tures and handled her subjects well. Like
others of her time, she was undoubtedly a
woman of destiny. Although Sister Horne
filled many public positions, yet she was
essentially a home-maker, a mother in Israel
brave and renowned, as thousands can
testify.
	Mary Isabella Hales Horne was bore in
Rainham, Kent, England, Nov. 20, 1818.
Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 25, 1905.

	Comparatively few of the women of today
know even the name of Leonora Callister
Cannon Taylor, but in the mind of the writer
she is intimately associated with Mary Isa-
bella Horne; they were great friends and
good comrades from Canada to the Salt Lake
Valley. We of an older generation knew
Leonora Taylor as a magnificent woman;
one of commanding presence, and a coun-
tenance beaming with intelligence; nobility

[Column 2]
was stamped upon her brow, she was highly
educated, cultured and refined. Sister Tay-
lor was also English and it was very evident
in her manner and appearance; she held
very lofty and independent views, and I at-
tribute this in a measure to the fearlessness
of the sea-fearing people from whom she
sprang (her father was a ship captain), as
also the greater freedom and liberty given
to women on the tight little Isle of Man;
they had rights and privileges not accorded
to other women in Great Britain or on the
continent of Europe. The House of Keys,
as the Parliament of the Isle of Man is de-
signated, is composed of landed proprietors,
and women, who are land owners, have al-
ways voted for members of that body and
formerly, so history tells us, women were
members of that August Assembly. Sister
Taylor was exceedingly interesting in con-
versation, fond of good company, and very
hospitable; she entertained handsomely even
when living in a log cabin. I recall a small
party at her home in Winter Quarters, every-
thing was simple, but managed with such
skill and dignity that one only realized the
charm of the hostess. Sister Taylor was
very companionable to young people, she
seemed gifted with a sort of vivacity, that
was attractive to youth as well as those of
her own set, even though she was of a re-
ligious and devotional nature, and she had
the greatest reverence for sacred things.
These elements combined make for the high-
est excellence in human character in men or
women.
	The women who have figured conspicuous-
ly in early Church history of these latter
days, were far above the average, and one
cannot but feel they were called and in fact
chosen to assist in ushering in this last dis-
pensation. Through trials, difficulties and
journeyings from place to place, they have
been heroines in very deed. Siste Leonora
Taylor was a most loyal and devoted wife,
and her husband had desperate need of her
help when he was wounded in the prison at
Carthage, at the time of the martyrdom of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother
Hyrum the Patriarch. Who can minister
to a man sick and distressed, so gently, so
tenderly as a loving, devoted, royal-hearted
wife, and especially one who like Sister
Taylor possessed all the requisites of woman’s
noblest nature intensified.
	Leonora Taylor was present when the Re-
lief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842. Her name stands third on
the list, only Emma Smith, and Martha
Knight before hers.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert niece of Sister
Leonora Taylor somewhat resembles her
aunt, and has that beautiful expression of
countenance that one might term beatific; also
her niece Sister Ann C. Woodbury reminds
one of Sister Taylor in some of her heroic
utterances, and her lofty fearlessness, that is
inherited from the sea-fearing people, and
the greater privileges of citizenship their
foremothers enjoyed in that far-away past.
Grand women these three. Leonora Taylor
stands in the front rank among celebrated
heroines of the Church, George Elliot says:
		“A woman’s rank lies in the fulness of
			her womanhood
		Therein alone is she royal.”
	Leonora Callister Cannon Taylor, born in
Peel, Isle of Man, October 6, 1796, died in
Salt Lake City, December, 1868.

	Another remarkable woman was Phebe
Whittemore Carter Woodruff she was of Puri-
tan descent and came from, “away down in

[Column 3]
Maine.” I knew her intimately, for half a
century and testify to her strength of char-
acter, wonderful capabilities, stanch inte-
grity, and heroic fortitude of endurance.
Under the most severe trials she bore herself
majestically. She had the inherent quali-
ities of her Puritanical ancestry, that fought
for freedom and liberty in America, and re-
belled against tyranny and oppression in
England before they came.
	Sister Woodruff traveled to Kirtland, Ohio
from Maine alone, having been convinced of
the truth of the gospel; and that was at a
time when means of transit were not so safe
for a young maiden, but she had no fear,
and this one step in her life was indicative
of her true character.
	She was a woman of active energy, deter-
mination and independence; industrious,
and in fact thrifty, had excellent judgment
in affairs and good business ability, such
women were needed in pioneer life.
	Sister Woodruff had a varied experience,
in journeying from place to place with her
husband and family; and she once accom-
panied him to England when he went upon
his second mission to that country, and later
to the Eastern States going as far as her na-
tive home in Maine. Sister Woodruff was
a stanch advocate for the rights of her sex,
and her people. The speech she made in
the old Tabernacle protesting against the
passage of the Cullom hill has been alluded
to by writers and historians as a master-
piece. It is said of the Fabyans, her moth-
er’s family name, that they sprang from the
Roman nobility and one could easily believe,
Phebe Woodruff had the blood of conquerors
in her veins; at any rate the writer has abun-
dant proof of her native Yankee wit, which
on some occasions serves one’s purpose bet-
ter than argument, or bursts of oratory.
Among the women of Zion she excelled in
many respects, was well versed in the script-
ures, and in public work among the sisters
was sound on all doctrinal subjects, and
wise in counsel and faithful in the discharge
of religious duties. She was one of the fore-
most women to fill positions of trust and
confidence in the early days in the valley,
also an excellent housewife, knew how to
meet all the needs of a primitive home; car-
ding, spinning, dyeing, weaving, soap and
candle making, she was a pillar of strength
to her husband and family. The heart of
her husband could safely trust in her.
	Phebe Whittemore Carter Woodruff was
born March 8, 1807, in Scarboro, Maine, died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, November 10, 1885


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Taft is supposed to agree with Roosevelt
on most questions. He also agrees with
him in regard to woman suffrage.
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw has started on a lec-
ture tour through the Southern States. She
will attend the meeting of the International
Suffrage Alliance in Holland in June.
	Miss Sally Word was last week elected
assessor and collector of taxes in Palestine,
Texas, and Mrs. E. H. Turner and Mrs. P.
P. Tucker were elected members of the
Dallas board of education. Seven members
constitute the board, which disburses from
half a million to a million dollars annually
and is not in any way responsible to the
general city administration. The election
of these three women followed an opinion
given out by the Attorney General that
under the constitution of Texas women are
eligible to municipal offices.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOVE IS SANCITIFIED.
Sighing for a little love,
	Life’s grey to turn to blue;
Pleading for a little sign,
	To tell that thou art true.
So, I gaze upon the stars,
	That glitter in the night,
Wand’ring if appeals to thee,
	Their radiance soft and bright.

Yearning for a fuller life,
	Unchanging life of love;
Fills my heart with strongest pain—
	It flutters like a dove—
Worlds must be where dark clouds ne’er
	Blot out the rays of light,
Longing O, my soul art thou
	To gaze upon the sight.

Know I this the world is fair,
	But there is much of pain;
Spirit love, O, faith inspire,
	Sing thou no sad refrain!
True thou art, I doubt thee not,
	’Twas but a passing sigh;
Ever love is sanctified,
	When faith binds fast the tie.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


THE GOOD OLD DAYS.
What blessed days—log-cabin days!
	Near sixty years ago,
When by the firelights ruddy haze
	Our cheeks were all a glow;
And youthful hearts were bounding high
	With hope and lightsome cheer,
For down came snowflakes from the sky,
	And holidays were near.

Fond memories so brightly come,
	Like radiant beams of light;
Oh there was some one coming home
	To greet me Christmas night,
Some one who months and months agone
	Had sailed across the sea—
Returning with his mission done—
	Now coming home to me!

What pretty dreams of pleasant sport,
	Of coasting down the hill,
Of sleighrides to the old town fort,
	And skating by the mill,
Of spelling schools to show our might,
	In education’s lore;
The dance at “early candle light,”
	And payments at the door.

A “tallow dip” it was perchance,
	Or produce from the farm;
Secured the ticket for the dance;
	Thus adding to its charm;
For very oft our lot had been
	To dance by sagebrush blaze,
While feet kept time to violin
	In early frontier days.

Those good old days, dear youthful days,
	Of coarse and homely fare
That simple life its primal ways—
	In joy finds no compare;
When father tilled, and mother sewed,
	And bravely met each fate,
Together bore life’s heavy load,
	Through early hours and late.

For those they loved ’twas joy to toil—
	No struggle seemed too great,
They gained their substance from the soil,
	And learned in faith to wait;
’Twas God sustained them day by day,
	His light had led them here,
He was their strength, and staff, and stay,
	Through every changing year.

Sweet, dear old days, the best of days—
	Of beauty, love and truth,
Now long since flitted from my gaze—
	Oh dear old days of youth!
When under fond and sheltering wing
	We knew but love’s caress.
What sacred bliss these mem’ries bring—
	Parental tenderness!

Parental wisdom too was brought
	To guide each youthful mind,
Then truth and honesty were taught—
	Life’s choicest pearls to find.
Oh guileless days—dear, good old days!
	Like beacon from afar,
They give to life exalted phase,
	They point the Gospel star!
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


A GRAND AND HAPPY DAY.
RANDOLPH R. S. MEETING.
	The seventeenth of March introduced it-
self to our locality in a rather flustered con-
dition.
	The winds blew a gale all day long as if
his satanic majesty had sat in council with
his co-laborers to frustrate the celebration
of the grandest day for women that ever
dawned for woman since the great mandate
came, let there be light when darkness fled
and light pierced the gloom.
	As the voice of spring cheers and invigo-
rates so does the return of this memorable
day bring comforting reflections to the memo-
ries of those who were fortunate enough to
be present at the meeting, held March 17,
1842, when the man of God stood in their
midst and declared that he was now ready
to organize the sisters.
	And ever since the utterance of these
words that fell from his prophetic lips,
woman has kept on in the path of advance-
ment and freedom of thought held out her
arms, and a veil seemed to be drawn aside
and light beamed, woman then seemed to
realize her true position here on earth.
	It was to commemorate the birth of this
eventful day that the Randolph Relief So-
ciety assembled at two o’clock p. m. on
March seventeenth, 1908.
	The meeting was presided over by Presi-
dent Celia A. Spencer.
	Our stake officers being all present, it
seemed to lend zest and influence to the oc-
casion, opening remarks were given by our
honorable Stake President Sarah Tyson, her
discourse was replete with the spirit of her
high calling. She referred to some of the
sayings of our beloved President Joseph F.
Smith in regard to women’s work, highly re-
commended the great work that was being
accomplished by the Relief Society in our
stake. Her indefatigable labors along with
her co-laborers in regard to relief work is
certainly something to be admired.
	Our annual fund was explained by Stake
Counselor Hannah Telford, she also added
some timely remarks.
	Sister Mary F. Shelly recounted some of
the trying scenes, Sister Amanda Smith
passed through during the Haun’s Mill
Massacre.
	President A. McKennon said the spirit
that prevailed was heavenly and inspiring,
exhorted the sisters to love one another and
continue in their untiring work of charity.
	Bishop Gray’s remarks were confined to
the holy mission of woman, the self-denial
that she was in possession of, encouraged the
sisters to take advantage of the nursing
course and be prepared to nurse our sick with
wisdom. He referred to the great impor-
tance of the mother’s work among our young
married sisters.
	At the close of the meeting ice cream and
cake were served under the auspices of the
local officers.
	An old time dance was enjoyed by all in
the evening. Thus ended another of the
well spent days which only the Saints of
God can enjoy.
				LOUISA GRAY.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society held at Salem, Utah
Co., December 13, 1907, commencing at
10:30 a. m. President Eliza J. Dixon pre-
siding.

[Column 2]
	After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer President Pierce of Salem spoke a
few words of welcome. 
	President Dixon spoke a short time on
our need for spiritual food and the necessity
of attending all the different organizations.
	President Pierce reported Salem Ward.
Fourth Ward of Spanish Fork by Sister
Swensen. President Ann Bingham, Benja-
min Ward, and bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the gospel, also releated the
story of Job and his faithfulness.
	Song by Sister Christianson and others,
entitled “Ye Must Be Bora Again.”
	Sister Evans, one of the Stake Board
spoke on Christmas, and some of the prophe-
cies concerning the coming of the Savior
and his birth; also spoke very beautifully
on the vision of Nephi, and related the
greater part of it; also the Prophet Samuel,
the Lamanite, and the coming of the Savior
on this continent.
	Recitation, a sister from Spanish Fork,
entitled “Crippled Ben.”
	Exercise on parents class work by Sister
Hughes of Spanish Fork, 2nd ward, on
habit, which was given very beautifully,
with numerous illustrations.
	Morning session closed by singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session: President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. We continued our services
with our usual exercises.
	Sister Hallen spoke on the duties of par-
ents to children, and the environment of the
home. Said, we should have our homes
clean and the Spirit of God there. Our
homes should be a heaven on earth, not
shut up our best rooms from our children
and be careful what kind of pictures we
have on our walls. Always tell our children
the truth, teach them good language by
example and never let our children hear
vulgarity in the home; also teach them the
word of wisdom by example. Advised cook-
ing our food on Saturday and keeping the
Sabbath day holy. Related an instance of
answer to prayer.
	Song by Sister Emma Peterson, entitled
“Hold Thou My Hand.”
	Sister Cappel spoke on our duties to our
children; also said as much as we do our
part in the gospel we will be blest; referred
to a sermon printed in the Deseret News by
Elder Richards, believes the time is coming
when the judgments of the Lord will be
poured out upon the people and it will be all
we can do to escape. Teach the children
to pay tithing and when they grow up to be
men it will not be hard for them.
	Bishop Taylor of Salem spoke for some
time, said he had enjoyed the remarks of the
former speakers; believes that example is
stronger then precept; referred to the re-
sponsibilities of parents. We are of all peo-
ple the most blessed and we should be very
thankful that we have our homes among the
people of the Lord. Spoke of people among
us that don’t believe in prayer. asking bles-
sing on the food or paying tithing and its
influence on our children, we should pray
without ceasing.
	Recitation, Violet Gardner, entitled, “The
Way ward Son.”
	Brother Hanks spoke on the Relief Society
work; also said that fathers and mothers
should be the greatest teachers of their chil-
dren.
	Sister Dixon thanked the people of Salem
for their kindness and hospitality manifested
today.
			E. A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00 A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	APRIL, 1908.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or any who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


SEVENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Church
held this month was very numerously at-
tended and the spirit of the discourses of the
Presidency, Apostles and other brethren
were characterized by a lofty religious and
spiritual fervor that was most helpful and
uplifting in its tendency. The music was
very inspiring and melodious, and altogether
there was a general feeling of unity, and con-
cert of action in all matters pertaining to
the upbuilding of the kingdom of God upon
the earth, and the furtherance of the spread
of the Gospel in all lands, that must give en-
couragement to those who are consecrating
their lives to the cause of truth and right-
eousness. It was a glorious sight to behold
the assembly in the large tabernacle and to
note the oneness of spirit and feeling, the
desire to promote the best interests and wel-
fare of the Saints and of all humanity.
	One can easily perceive the awakening
among the Saints, during the past few years
and since some of the old landmarks have
been re-established and interest manifested
in improving and beautifying the birthplace
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Temple
district in Independence. The fact seems
so perceptible and is so gratifying, that those
who watch the signs of the times cannot
help feeling that the prophecy that the whole
Western continent is indeed the land of
Zion is being well-established in the minds
of those who have eyes to see and hearts to
understand. The progress of the Latter-day
work in far-off lands is strong testimony in
itself of the truth that pervades the hearts


of honest men and women in whatever land
or clime they dwell, or whatever their calling
or the customs of the country they inhabit.
They know for themselves when the Gospel
comes the spirit bears witness to the earnest
and upright in heart, and they are made to
rejoice in finding the plan of salvation as
laid down in the Scriptures, has been again
restored as promised by men of old.
	This last Conference should be a convinc-
ing proof to the young people in Zion of the
magnitude of the mighty work in which the
Saints are engaged.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Meeting of the Utah State Society
Daughters of the Revolution, was held April
16, Thursday, in the Woman’s Exponent Office
at 3 p. m. Regent Mrs. Ella W. Hyde in
the Chair first Vice Regent Miss Catharine
Wells, Recording Secretary Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright, and other officers and members
present; also Mrs. Augusta Coray Lewis guest.
The Regent and most of the members re-
sponded to call with patriotic sentiments,
relating to the Battle of Lexington, it being
so near the anniversary of that memorable
day when the first shots were fired, that
brought about the liberty of the American
people of which we are all so justly proud.
The papers were in relation to the critical
period that elapsed after the close of the
war and before the inauguration of the first
President of the United States, Papers were
read by Mrs. Thomas G. Webber and Mrs.
E. B. Wells and contained many interest-
ing facts and incidents that are not gener-
ally known or if so, are not familiar even
among those who are well versed in American
history. The Utah State Society D. R. will
celebrate, its first decade during the present
year.
	The Utah Women’s Press Club and the
Reaper’s Social united in giving a party in
honor of the birthday of the founder Mrs. E.
B. Wells on Friday evening, February 28,
preceding her real birthday anniversary,
which occurred on the 29th. The party was
held at the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and was quite a grand affair. The hall and
parlor were prettily decorated with flowers,
vines entwined with ribbons, and the rooms
were filled with members of the club and in-
vited guests. Mrs. Wells being the guest of
honor. Instrumental music, songs, speeches
and poems were rendered and delicious re-
freshments served in the dining room,
which was also decorated, and everything
possible to make it a joyful affair was
done by the ladies of the clubs. Mrs.
Wells was the recipient of some valuable
gifts and toward the close of the evening
she responded in a very feeling manner
though her emotions were almost too strong
to permit her to do justice to her friends,
who had been so generous and kind, both
in word and deed. At the close a hymn
was sung and a prayer offered. Mrs. Wells
desires the ladies who paid her such a tribute
of esteem and affection to accept her heart-
felt acknowledgments and gratitude for the
respect shown her, and in whatever way she
can serve them, she will be most happy to
show them favor, and they have her love and
sincere appreciation.
	General Board of the Relief Society held a
public reception on the birthday anniversary
of the Secretary Mrs. E. B. Wells, Saturday
29, 1908, in the famous Lion House parlor,

[Column 2]
from 2 to 5 p. m. The parlor and hall were
artistically decorated and a string band of
musicians rendered some of the choicest
music in such soft sweet strains that the
harmony was most delightful. Flowers in
profusion lent their sweet fragrance to the
atmosphere of the dear old house that is al-
ways full of tender memories of the days
gone by. Mrs. E. B. Wells was assisted in
receiving by her life-long friend Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith also her daughters Mrs.
Isabel Whitney Sears and Mrs. Annie Wells
Cannon and the members of the General
Board who were there to add to the suc-
cess and pleasure of the friends who called
to shake hands and pay their respects to the
woman who had reached the four score mile-
stone of life. During the afternoon the Pre-
sident of the Society in a few well-chosen
words presented the Secretary with a purss
of money given by the members of the Gen-
eral Board. So unexpected was the gift and
so modest the manner in which the purse of
gold was given that no demonstration fol-
lowed. The Daughters of the Pioneers also
presented her with a signet ring of pure gold
but Mrs. Wells was requested to tell the
ladies about her advent into the world, and
other real birthdays that had been celebrat-
ed, and she complied in an affable and
rather humorous style. It is said that near-
ly or quite six hundred people called at the
Lion House and shook hands with Mrs. Wells,
Mrs. Smith and other ladies. The room it-
self was almost a bower of roses carnations
and fragrant emblems of love and beauty.
Light refreshments were served to all the
guests by young girls grand-daughters and
nieces of Mrs. Wells. Altogether it was a
delightful affair, a gala-day in Midwinter,
and though the wind blew a gale in the
morning, the afternoon was pleasant and all
things considered it was perhaps as auspici-
ous of good, as the day on which Mrs. Wells
was ushered into the world, a tiny infant, in
a far-off New England home.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The April Conference of the General Re-
lief Society which occupied two days, April
2nd and 3rd, was quite an event in the his-
tory of this grand organization. It is the
first time that two days sessions have been
held, and there was the largest attendance
on record.
	The Conference was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, opening Thursday morning,
April 2nd, at 10 a. m. President Bathshe-
ba W. Smith presiding. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edward, Musical Director; Miss Edna H.
Coray, Accompanist.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.” Prayer was of-
fered by Sister Susan Grant, continued by
singing, “How firm a foundation ye Saints
of the Lord.” Roll call, by the Secretary,
Sister E. B. Wells; general officers, 4;
board of directors, 7; 30 stakes out of 56
answered to roll call.
	President B. S. Smith was very glad to
see so many dear sisters, she would like to
shake hands with each one, and she desired
to bless all present, and that they might be
able to carry out the instructions given
by the Prophet Joseph when he organized
the society, prayed that all might have wis-
dom and strength, and when we meet the
Prophet (if we are permitted) that he will
be well pleased, she believed he would be,
for she knew we had done well and felt we
would continue in so doing.


[Column 1]
	President Annie S. Musser of Liberty
Stake responded to the greeting of the Gen-
eral President, she was indeed gratified that
we had Sister Smith with us, and hoped
she might live to meet with us as long as
she desired, her name was a household word
among all the Saints. “We know she has
been honored of the Lord, a noble daughter,
a true wife and a glorious mother, and we
bow to her almost in adoration, for she
stands at the head of the grandest charitable
organization in the world. We are blest of
the Lord and because our work is so unself-
ish. We have been called, we have been
chosen, to represent our Heavenly Father
here on earth in connection with the Priest-
hood, and I ask our Father in heaven to
bless all the workers. May our motto ever
be, “Faith, Hope and Charity,” and I ask
it in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Contralto solo, Miss Mabel Cooper.
	Stakes were called to report first: presi-
dent, E. L. S. Udall, St. John; President
Bathsheba B. Grundy, Wayne; President
Louisa B. Benson, Oneida; President Mar-
garet A. Romney, Ensign; President Min-
erva E. R. Knowlton, Davis.
	Supt. Emma A. Empey of Relief Society
nurses, made a plea for more young women
to be sent this year, to take the nurse course,
and dwelt briefly upon the great need of
more nurses and the benefits to the young
women themselves as well as good to others.
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie also spoke upon the
same subject making an earnest appeal to
the presidents and others to interest the
young women in the study of nursing.
	“Angel’s Serenade,” Miss Lottie Brain.
	More Relief Society, stakes were called.
President Matilda Flamm reported Fremont,
President Susanna P. Booth, Box Elder.
	Morning session closed by singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel.” Benediction by Sister
Rhoda A. Lyman.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m., opened by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints,” prayer
was offered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
Singing led by the musical director, Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward, “Daughters of
Zion rejoice evermore,’’ composed expressly
for this Relief Society Conference by Sister
Annie Wells Cannon, and before singing the
song was read to the congregation by Sister
Alice Merrill Horne, the singing was accom-
panied by Prof. W. C. Clive and his son,
Master Clifford Clive, and the hymn was
very beautifully rendered.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde made the
opening address of the afternoon, she re-
ferred to the reports made in the morning,
commended the sisters for their earnest,
faithful and diligent labors, knew they had
depended upon the Lord, felt the good done
was invaluable, and spoke of the beautiful
hymn just sung, written by Sister Cannon,
that it just carried the spirit of the work;
she felt there was a very decided growth in
the Society the past year, more granaries
built, better attendance at meetings, beauti-
ful outlines prepared for Mother’s work,
giving better results, hoped the work now
would reach more of the young mothers;
dwelt upon this line of work and of young
women gaining knowledge, referred particu-
larly to preparation for motherhood, and
also to the greater opportunities nowadays;
spoke of establishing libraries and mentioned
the great responsibilities resting upon moth-
ers in training their children in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, exhorted tha mothers to
question themselves and see if they had done
their full duty, felt the opportunity given to

[Column 2]
us as women was more blessed than any-
thing in the world.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, one of the
general officers of the Society, made a tell-
ing and forcible address. She had left the
meeting this morning to pay her last respects
to one of our dear young mothers, who had
been called into the world beyond, and had
there heard many of the beautiful things
that our Elders can say about motherhood.
“How great is the wonderful mission of
mothers, we are blest beyond all women
and therefore should be the best mothers in
the world;” referred to the differences in
children, how easily some are led and how
difficut it is to guide others, urged faith and
prayer, thought the adversary was busier
than ever before. Spoke of the many
amusements that take the young people
from the home, and how watchful mothers
must be, to preserve the purity of the youth
of Zion; alluded to the young, innocent girls
coming from the country meeting with
strangers and in an idle moment perhaps
falling into danger, spoke feelingly of the
difficulties that have to be met, and stated
concerning a special committee that had
been appointed by authority, to look after
these matters and of the magnitude of the
work. Sister Williams gave excellent advice
that should be followed; thought that every
young woman coming to the city should put
herself in communication with the Bishop
of the ward where she expects to reside; re-
lated some facts that had come to her knowl
edge that proved that we sisters should all
be missionaries in helping our young girls
to protect themselves, prayed that all might
heed the warning she had given and added,
“May our Heavenly Father bless us with
wisdom and intelligence and help us to live
up to the Golden Rule, “To do unto others
as we would have them do unto us.”
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox thought the
care of the children had been beautifully
touched upon this afternoon but that little
had been said of their physical care; “no wo-
man who marries and becomes a mother
but should know how to nurse, many moth-
ers know little about caring for health, every
human being is a bundle of tendencies,
which shows us the need of knowledge;
some mothers are natural nurses, but
every mother should know a little of
hygiene and physiology, more children in
their infancy and early childhood are in-
jured by being over-fed than in not having
sufficient food, and disease is often fostered
by uncleanliness. We should not forget that
disease is a poison, mothers should reach
out their influence in the neighborhood and
help physically as well as other ways
spiritually and mentally. “I do believe
that through the care of wise parents chil-
dren may be saved. We ought to have
power to prevent so much sickness among
children.”
	Sister Minnie H. James said that the be-
ginning of her Relief Society work was when
a little girl she went to the meetings with
her mother to take care of the sisters’ chil-
dren while they quilted and sewed, and her
idea was if we would teach our children that
their real pleasure was in helping others,
perhaps we could overcome this excessive
pleasure seeking. If we have the Spirit of
the Lord it will be a guide to us.
	Sister Alice M. Horne referred to the good
things she had heard today, and felt after
all that she might be a better mother than
she had been before. Referred to her visit
in Arizona and a conversation with a physi-
cian she met there, and the question arose,

[Column 3]
“Why do so many young mothers die?”
The physician stated his experience in this
matter had led him to believe it was due to
excessive dancing; girls work all day and
dance at night in over-heated, or badly
ventilated rooms, and they attended parties
when they are not in a proper condition of
health; Sister Home maintained girls should
be taught to stand well, these things can be
taught in early youth, believed in the edu-
cation that began in the home, take proper
care of ourselves, in every way, our health
is almost the first consideration, spoke of
beautiful and attractive homes.
	Prof. W. C. Clive played a very beautiful
violin solo accompanied on the piano by
Master Clifford Clyde. 
	Congregation sang, “Lord dismiss us with
Thy blessing,” etc. Benediction by Sister
E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WEL, Secretary.
Close of first day’s Conference.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


D. R. NEW YORK CITY.
	The annual meeting and biennial election
of officers of the General Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution will be held in
New York during the week of April 27th,
with headquarters at the Waldorf Astoria.
Ten new members will be elected to the
Board of Managers.
	The program for the week will include a
reception at the new plaza, given by the
New York Society D. R., a theatre party, a
banquet at the Waldorf and excursions to
points of local and historic interest.
	An especialiy pleasant and interesting
convention is expected and a full attendance
is desired.


OUTLINE MOTHERS’ WORK.
		PAROWAN STAKE.
	Lesson 1.—Life and its responsibilities.
	Why are we here? We must sometime give
an account for the way in which our lives
have been spent.
	Lessson 2.—Have an aim in life.
	That of making happy homes—Good
cooking an important factor. Good health
another. Politeness and courtesy at home
are also important. Count your blessings
but not your trials and you will find much
cause for happiness.
	Lesson 3.—Women in professions.
	(a) What professions are most suitable
for women to follow? (b) Motherhood and
a professional woman. (c) Motherhood is
the instinct of all women and greater breadth
and clearness of understanding should not
militate against any natural human instinct
but only serve to develop it.
	Lesson 4.—Mothers to be companions.
	(a) Mothers should share the joys, sor-
rows and amusements of their children, 
(b) Strive to do justice to the nature of the
child.
	Lesson 5.—Faith.
	(a) What is faith? (b) On whom does
our faith rest? (c) Show that it is a prin-
ciple of action. (d) Show that it is a prin-
ciple of power. (e) Example of faith.
	Lesson 6.—Reading.
	(a) “Seek ye out of the best books words
of wisdom, seek learning by study and also
by faith.” (Doctrine and Covenants.) (b)


[Column 1]
Objects of reading—knowledge, pleasure,
and pastime. (c) Good and evil of books.
For the good; Force yourself to reflect on
what you read. For the bad; A man may
be eating all day and for the want of diges-
tion is never nourished, so these incessant
readers may cram themselves in vain with
intellectual food.
	Lesson 7.—Home the child’s world.
	Make the home beautiful, encourage fami-
ly singing. Provide music of some kind.
Encourage the making of beautiful things
at home. Get tool boxes for the boys, and
make their rooms neat and pretty, as well as
the girls rooms.
	Lesson 8.—The parent and the school.
	(a) Don’t feel that when your little one
enters school life your responsibility for his
training is over, in fact it is greater than
ever. (b) Between the parent and the
teacher there should always be some ac-
quaintance and communication. (c) Parents
should acquaint themselves with the con-
ditions and conduct of the school as well as
the home and thereby aid both the teacher
and the child.
	Lesson 9.—The sin of gossip.
	(a) “Judge not that ye be not judged for
with what judgment ye judge ye shall be
judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) (b) Be not hasty in
condemning others. Speak of their good
qualities rather than their misdeeds. We
might do things that would be just as wrong
if we were placed in similar circumstances.
(c) Have some subject for discussion at
sewing bees and working meetings.
	Lesson 10.—Courtesy.
	Courtesy is uplifting as it leads each to
render proper respect for another. (b)
Wives should be courteous to their husbands
and children. (c) Children should be taught
to be courteous. (d) Advantages to be de-
rived.
	Lesson 11.—Honesty.
	(a) If thou shalt find that which thy
neighbor has lost thou shall make diligent
search till thou shalt deliver it to him again.
(Doctrine and Covenants.) (b) When chil-
dren pick up articles of value do we encour-
age them to try to find the lawful owner?
	Lesson 12.—Observance of the Sabbath
		day.
	(a) Exodus chapters 16, 20, and 23.
(b) It is good to do good on the Sabbath
day. (Matt. 12, verse 1-14. (c) Mothers
should so arrange their work that as little
manual labor as possible be performed on
the Sabbath.
		FLORENCE WEBSTER,
		ROSE LUNT,
	Committee of Cedar City. 
		OUTLINE UINTAH STAKE.
	Lesson 1.—Marriage ordained of God.
	Multiply and replenish the earth (Gen.
chap. 1). “Neither is the man without the
woman nor the woman without the man in
the Lord” (1 Cor. 11: 11). “It is not good
for man to be alone (Gen. 2:18).—Marriage
to be held sacred. The Lord interfered to
protect Abraham’s wife from being defiled
(Gen. 12: 17-20). Defiling of woman next
to murder (Book of Mormon, Alma 39:5;
Doc. and Cov., sec. 132).—Eternity of mar-
riage. When the Lord gave Eve to Adam he

[Column 2]
made no condition of time. Our latter-day
marriage covenant is for eternity, to bind on
earth, given to Joseph Smith (Doc. and Cov.
110: 11-16).
	Lesson 2.—Affection.
	1. Love of parents for each other. 2. Of
parents for children. 3. Of children for pa-
rents.
	Aim: Love in the home is necessary to
gain and maintain the highest ideal in home
government. General Truth—Love induces
patience, gentleness, long suffering, etc.
	Suggestions: 1. “If we love one another
God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected
in us” (John 4: 12). 2. “Thou shalt live
together in love (Doc. and Cov. 42-45; See
Doc. and Cov. 121. 41-46). Love may be
encouraged by a proper consideration of one
another’s feelings.
	Lesson 3.— Definition. 
	General, special as regards wording.—
Prayer. (a) All words given. (b) Portion
given. (c) Own wording.—Kinds of special
as regards purpose. 1. Praise and thanks-
giving. 2. Pleading and intercession. 3.
Supplication and confession.—Necessity of.
1. Because of our dependence on God. 2.
As a source of comfort. 3. As a protection
from evil. 4. As a means of spiritual growth.
—How made effectual. 1. Belief in God.
2. Acknowledgement of his power. 3. Ob-
servance of his laws.—Attuned with power
addressed. 1. By pure motive. 2. By
humility and worthiness.—Desirable place
for Prayer. 1. Public worship (III Nephi
18: 16). 2. Family (III Nephi 18:21).
3. Individual (Alma 34: 26).
	Note.—Consult any of the standard L. D.
S. Church works.
	Lesson 4.—Economy in the home.
	Definition. 1. Of means. 2. Of time. 3. Of
strength.—Economy. Topics for discussion.
The effects of going into debt. Value of
time. Select other appropriate topics.
	Lesson 5.—Definition. General.
	How to cultivate cheerfulness.—Cheerful-
ness, affects digestion. The welfare of the
home. The welfare of the community. In
the performance of irksome duties. In bear-
ing losses and crosses. In the sick room.
In the giving of gifts cheerfulness keeps
the heart from despairing. Discuss the
actual or probable effects of worry upon
the mind.  Of Levity. General Truths.
Worry excitement, and all the emo-
tions of anger, hatred envy, etc., weaken
the mental powers and exhaust the nervous
system. Quotations—“Blessed is she who
is hopeful in spirit for she finds sunshine in
shadow.” “It is easy enough to be pleasant.”
	When life flows along like a song,
	But the man worth while
	Is the one that will smile
	When every thing goes dead wrong.
	Lesson 6—Moral education. Games.
	Social duties in the home. Amusements
in the home.
	Propositions for discussion.—Sabbath vis-
ting. Sabbath night socials. The effect
of going into society too young.
	Aim: To show the relation of social du-
ties to the welfare of the home.
	Sugestions: Christ pictured the beauty
and graciousness of social life in many par-
ables Example. The reach man’s feast, and
his seeking his guests in the highways. The
marriage supper; His portrayal of the rich

[Column 3]
man’s table; and above all his lovely promise
that the faithful should sit down with Him
at the bridal supper of the lamb of God.
	Lesson 7.—Proper conduct in houses of
		worship.
	Providing room for many. Comfortable
seats. Away from objects that distract the
mind.—Dedicated to the Most High. Words
of inspiration given and received. Ordin-
ances of the gospel performed there.
	Aim: To encourage reverence for houses
of worship and discourage loud laughter;
loud talking; any unnecessary disturbance;
marring the furniture. Expectoration on the
floor, any unnecessary soiling of the floor.
	Lesson 8.—General, Special.
	Command; Counsel; Advice. How given;
Vision; Revelation, where recorded; Inspira-
tion.—Word of wisdom. Protection from
enemies; For physical development; For spi-
ritual development.—Salient points. In-
jurious effects of tea, Tannic acid, etc.—
Coffee, Coffein, etc.; Cocoa, Theobroma;
Condiments other stimulants. Agreement
with scientific knowledge (See Doc. and Cov.
sec. 89.
	Lesson 9.—Obedience to God.
	Source of all power, light, love, justice,
mercy; love, deference, power; Equality, jus-
tice, mercy. To God, to parents, to law of
land. Incentives to obedience. Blessings
obtained through obedience; Results of dis-
obedience. General Truth—Salvation comes
through obedience.
	Lesson 10.—Tithing in early times.
	Abraham pays tithes to Melchizedek (Gen.
14: 18-20); Jacob vows to pay (Gen. 28:22)
The Israelites tithed (Lev. 27:30-34). Mae-
diaeval times: A blessing to follow (Mal. 3:
7-12). Approved by Jesus (Matt. 23:23;
Luke 11:42); Practised by the Nephites
(III Nephi 24: 7-12). He that is tithed
shall not be burned (Doc. and Cov., sec. 64:
23, 24 and 85:3); One tenth to be paid (Doc.
and Cov., sec. 119: 1, 4); Higher law repre-
sented by it (Doc. and Cov., sec. 42 and 51).
In latter days: Pres. Snow promised that
the Saints should be blessed if they paid an
honest tithing—has been fulfilled.
		PHEBE A. MERKELEY,
				Stake Secretary R. S.

BLACKFOOT STAKE OUTLINE.
		Lecture 1.—Life.
	a. Life is to develop body, mind and
soul. God made man and breathed into
his nostrils and man became a living soul.
(Gen. 2:7.) b. Life is the arena of many
forms of courage; as many, in fact, as there
are lines of human action (Our Home p.
401.)
	“Our daily paths with thorns or flowers
		We can at will bestrew them,  
	What bliss will gild the passing hours,
		If we but rightly knew them.
	The way of life is rough at best.
		But briars yield the roses,
	So that which leads to joy and rest,
		The hardest path discloses.”
	Lecture 2.—Responsibilities.
	a. In the nurse of power it is obvious that
man has to do with two different kinds of
responsibility, viz., individually and collect-
vely. (Our Home, p. 405.) b. Home-
making, order, cleanliness, love, patience,
endurance, and good environments.


[Column 1]
Lecture 3.—Nature Study.
	a. Give the children a piece of ground to
cultivate and plant with grain, vegetables
and flowers. Teach them how to irrigate,
cultivate and care for it. b. Teach them to
study and love the bird kingdom. Teach
them how to care for and love animals, to
love nature, for God hath created it for the
use of man. (Gen. 1 and 2 chapters.)

Lecture 4.—Our Children are Precious
			Jewels.
a. The little children all, are flowers sent
	from heavenly gardens above,
With minds as fresh as new-turned earth,
	to be planted deep with love,
And the years of our care will quickly
	tell,
The flowers our gardeners love so well.

	Teach the children they have come to fill
a mission, instruct them in the principles of
of the Gospel (Doc. and Cov. 68:25.) b.
Teach them that obedience is better than
sacrifice (Doc. and Cov. 68: 31.) We can-
not devote too much of our time to the pol-
shing of our jewels, they are God’s gifts to
us. “Suffer little children to come unto me
and forbid them not, for of such is the king-
dom of heaven” (Mark 10: 14.)

Lecture 5.—Preparation for the Future.
	a. The progress we make here goes with
us into eternity (Doc. and Cov. 85: 118.)
b.We owe a duty to our children’s future
mates. Teach the boys to put their clothes,
books, etc., away neatly, and thus they will
be helpful rather than a hindrance, not only
to mother but to their future wives. c. Story
telling as a means of education for our chil-
dren. As much as possible let your stories
be of noble deeds and actions that will show
the folly of wrong habits, viz., selfishness,
dleness, slothfulness, etc., overcome evil
tendencies not by punishment, but by con-
tinual direction of the mind to something
higher and nobler.

Lecture 6.—The Sin of Gossip.
	a. Be not hasty in condemning others,
speak of their good qualities, rather than
their misdeeds, we might do things that
are just as wrong if we were placed in simi-
lar circumstances. “Judge not that ye be
not judged, for with what judgment ye judge
others ye shall be judged (Matt. 7: 1.)

Judge not that ye be not judged, for ’tis
	high to be a judge.
If I would be pure and holy, I must love
	without a grudge.

	Have some subject for discussion at sew-
ing bees and work meetings. Have respect
for all God’s creatures, for ridicule is the
weapon of the ignorant, A plain face and
plain clothing should not be the basis of our
estimate of people. Value the conduct and
the. qualities of the mind above all else.

Lecture 7. —Our Bodies are Temples of the
Living God (Doc. and Cov. 93: 35.)

We gaze at the wonders of nature,
	We reflect on God’s excellent plan,
The earth in its grandeur, the heavens and
		seas,.
	But his most beautiful work is man.

	a. Teach our children to keep their bodies
clean and pure. Teach them the value of
deep breathing, fresh air, exercises, and of
standing erect. We are made in the image
of God, and should keep that image as per-
fect as possible.

[Column 2]
Lecture 8.—Parables.—The Ten Talents
(Matt. 25: 14-30)
	a. What talent do I possess? Do I culti-
vate it? Patience, faith, cheerfulness. The
power to instruct or comfort others, or any-
thing that tends to make life better or
brighter, are talents which should be culti-
vated. b. It is selfish for mothers to devote
all of their time to their families. Benefits
from working in Church organizations.
Woman’s advancement depends on her own
efforts and not entirely on her husband’s.
The first requirement to successful life in any
capacity is to love the work.

Lecture 9.—Place of Worship is Holy.
	a. Teach the children to be quiet and
orderly in the house of God; it is wrong to
let the little ones run and play in the aisles,
and for the older ones to whisper and make
a disturbance during services, these things
are displeasing to our heavenly Fath-
er, and an offense to our friends who visit
our places of worship, for the house of God
is a house of order.

Lecture 10—A good Woman and a Good
Worker are Separable.
	a. A home woman, one who reigns as
queen in her own home, by administering to
the wants of her family.
	“Blessed is the homemaker, for her hap-
piness shall be multiplied.
	b. Blessed is the worker who hath pleas-
ure in her labors, for joy will crown her
efforts (Doc. and Cov. sec. 15.)
	In combining these qualities we often
make a failure.
	c. Holding too many offices is detrimental
to both home and organizations (Personal
observations.)

Lesson 11—True Object of Relief Society
Work.
	a. Visiting the sick, effects of cheerful
company, looking after the poor. Im-
provement in home life. b. Responsibility
of teaching the gospel a very essential duty.
(Mark 15: 16.)

Lecture 12.
	Review and discussion of benefits derived
from Mothers’ Work of year’s study.
				LUCY A. STEERS,
				JULIETTE BLACKBURN,
				SARAH J. DALTON,
Relief Society Stake Presidency.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Allwise Heavenly Father has seen
fit to take back into His presence our much es-
teemed Sister Mary Ann Atkin, who departed this
life on February 6, 1908, being 69 years old, and
	Whereas she was the President of the Tooele
Relief Society for several years, having resigned
a year or so ago on account of failing health. In
this capacity she was a kind, dutiful leader, which
endeared her to all having the pleasure of know-
ing her.
	She set an example worthy of imitation in her
every walk in life.
	Therefore;—Be it resolved that we, the members
of the Tooele Ward Relief Society, who do so
keenly feel her loss, endeavor to follow the ex-
ample she set before us and keep in mind the
kindly advice she gave.
	Resolved that this resolution be recorded and a
copy of same be handed to the bereaved family
and one sent to be published in the Woman’s
Exponent.
				R. ALICE MCBRIDE,
						President.
				ADDIE VOWLES, Secretary.


TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Sister Elizabeth Stratton Skin-
ner, born at Graves End, Kent Co., England,
			April 23, 1855.
	Whereas we the sisters of the Graham Ward
Relief Society have been called to part with our
beloved President, who was called to the great
beyond Sunday, March 1, 1908. We do feel to
appreciate her labors, for she was indeed an un-
selfish worker; and through her patience love, and
self-sacrifice we do feel and know much good has
been accomplished. She was ever at the post of
duty even to the day she died. It can truly be
said of her, the world is better for her having
lived in it.
	In 1883, Sister Skinner was chosen Secretary of
the Relief Society in the Graham Ward and in
1885 she was chosen President of the Primary and
held both offices for 10 years. In 1896, she was
appointed President of the Relief Society of the
Graham Ward, which office she held until her
death. Therefore be it resolved, that we do truly
feel to sympathize with her dear husband and
children. And we pray that God’s healing influ-
ence may ever be near to soothe their lacerated
hearts, and that a copy of these resolutions be
given to them.
				MARY A. PETERSON,
				MARY E. TALLEY,
				HATTIE B. SKINNER,
							Committee.
Graham, Arizona.
				IN MEMORY.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Elizabeth Thornton, once a member of the Glen-
wood Ward, who passed away September 13th,
1907, after a long illness.
	Sister Thornton was a faithful Latter-day Saint.
For many years she was a constant worker in the
Manti Temple, and previous to that time held the
position as counselor to President Mary Ann
Buchanan, in the Glenwood Relief Society, which
position she filled with honor.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Glenwood Relief
Society, that we mourn our loss and that we ap-
preciate the purity of her life and the worthy ex-
ample she has set us to follow.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be re-
corded in the records of our society, also a copy
be sent to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
			DINAH JACKSON, President,
			MARGARET S. PAYNE, 1st. Coun.
			JOSEPHINE BELL, 2nd Coun.
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Our Beloved Sister Annie J. Wixom died, on
Sunday afternoon, December 22nd, 1907.
	Annie Jackson Wixom was the daughter of
George and Louisa Jackson; was born October
10th, 1846, in Shirdington, Gloucestershire, Eng-
land. At the age of ten years she became a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, emigrated to Utah 1866. In the same year,
on October 13th, she became the wife of Justin C.
Wixom. In November 1866 they moved to Brig-
ham City.
	In 1878, when the Y. L. M. I. Association was
first organized in the 2nd ward Brigham City, she
was called to act as president, which position she
held with great credit for a number of years. She
also acted as teacher in the Relief Society in the
same ward for some years.
	June 13th, 1893, she was called and sustained
as Recording Secretary on the Stake Board of the
Relief Society of Box Elder, which position she
held with efficiency until the time of her death;
she also held the position of City Treasurer for
two terms.
	She loved the gospel and was an energetic and
faithful worker in the different positions she held.
	She was a sweet singer and was a faithful mem-
ber of the Brigham City Tabernacle Choir for 40
years.
	Annie J. Wixom had a kind and benevolent
heart, a pleasant, cheerful disposition, which won
for her, the love and friendship of all her co-labo-
rers and associates; she will be held in loving re-
membrance for her many noble qualities of mind
and heart.
		Lovingly from her Co-laborers
			SUSANNA P BOOTH, President.
			EMILIA D. MADSON,
			MARY J. HARDING, Counselors.
			LULA B. CALL, Cor. Secty.
			ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Asst. Sec.
			FANNY GRAEHL, Treasurer.


A TRIBUTE.
To the memory of Isadora Jardiue Thompson,
	who departed this life February 9th, 1908.
	Deceased was 49 years 9 months and 19 days
old, was the daughter of James and Isabella Jar-
dine, West Weber, Utah. She was born April 21st,
1858, in Jackson, Illinois. She moved with her
parents to Wellsville, Utah, and from there to
West Weber, Utah. She was married to Hyrum
C. Thompson in July, 1873. Brother and Sister
Thompson and family moved to Wilford, Idaho,
in May, 1887, where they lived till St. Anthony
was organized. Sister Thompson was Secretary
for the North Wilford Sunday School for a num-
ber of years. Also Counselor to the Relief Society
for a long time. And was First Counselor to the
President of the Relief Society of St. Anthony at
the time of her death. She was the mother of 14
children, 12 of whom survive her. She leaves a
devoted husband, 9 sons and 3 daughters, 4 sisters
and two brothers to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the L. D. S.
Church February 13th; Bishop Jos. E. Fogg con-
ducting.
				RESOLUTIONS.
	Be it resolved that we the sisters of  the Woman’s
Relief Society of the St. Anthony Ward do most
deeply mourn the loss of so faithful a sister.
	And we do feel it is hard to become reconciled
to her death. But we are willing to bow in humble
submission to our Father’s will.
	Be it resolved that we extend our heart felt
sympathy to her husband, children, parents,
brothers and sisters, and ask God to bless them
and make them feel that he is their friend.
	Be it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of the Local Relief So-
ciety a copy given  to the bereaved family of the
deceased and a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT.
			SARAH J. STIMPSON, President.
			LOVISA THORNTON, 2nd Counselor.
			SARAH R. TAYLOR, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	Miss Beatrice Harraden is busy travel-
ing from place to place in England giving
readings from “Ships That Pass in the
Night,” and her other books, to raise money
to help the suffrage cause.
	Five thousand rose bushes were planted
in the city parks on Washington’s birthday
by the school children of Portland, Oregon:
If the woman suffrage amendment should be
carried next June, the bouquets will be all
ready,
	Daniel Read Anthony, Jr., the new mem-
ber of Congress from Leavenworth, Kan., is
a nephew of Susan B. Anthony. Although
a lawyer by profession, Mr. Anthony has
been engaged in newspaper work all his life,
and is at present editor of the Leavenworth
Times, which he inherited from his father.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and Mrs. Ida
H. Harper sailed on the New Amsterdam
for Holland April 17, to attend the coming
convention of the International Woman
Suffrage Alliance. Afterwards they plan to
visit Finland, St. Petersburg, Moscow, Buda
Pesth, Vienna and Switzerland, taking in
the executive meeting of the international 
Council of Women to be held in Geneva in 
September and later going to Spain.
	Mrs. Gertrude Barney has been elected
city collector of Montgomery, Mo., on the
Rebublican and Prohibition tickets. The 
city council have refused to issue a com-


mission to her on the ground that a woman
is not eligible. Her friends, however have
evolved a plan whereby she can to all intents
and purposes hold the office. They propose
to elect Mrs. Barney’s aged father as col-
lector at a special election and have him
appoint her his deputy. In that way she will
receive the salary attached to the office and
be collector in everything but name.—Ex.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB,
From October 31, 1901 to October 31, 1906,
	with a brief history of the first decade.
	Lydia D. Alder historian.
		(Continued from page 48.)
	Mention was made at this meeting of
the special conference of the Mormon
Church, held November 10, 1901, and the
installation of Joseph F. Smith as the
President of the Church, and the election
of Bathsheba W. Smith as President of
the Relief Society in all the world.
	At the January meeting, 1902, Mrs. E.
B. Wells reported that the case of books
made up by the Club (who also paid for
the case), be brought here (Exponent
office), from whence it would be sent to
the Ladies’ Literary Club House. It
would then be sent out with the other
cases of the Traveling Library.
	At the February meeting, 1902, Mrs.
McVicker was appointed as the Club’s
delegate to the biennial convention to be
held in Los Angeles in May, 1902.
	A motion waa made and carried at this
meeting that the Club subscribe for the
“Club Woman.” An article was read
and commented on, “The Mellowing of
Occasions,” from a copy of the same.
	This being the birthday of our Hon.
president, Mrs. E. B. Wells, good wishes
in her behalf were expressed by all the
members present. Mrs. Wells being out
of the city could not meet with us.
	At the March meeting of 1902, Mrs.
Bickford addressed the Club on State and
General Federation, and spoke of the
coming biennial.
	Mrs. Wells spoke of her visit to Hull
House, Chicago, giving an interesting ac-
count of the same.
	The closing meeting of the season was
held at the house of the president, Mrs.
Alder, who gave a talk on her recent visit
to Scotland, including the cities of Glas-
gow, Edinburgh and Stirling.
	She spoke somewhat at length of Ar-
thur’s Seat in Edinburgh, and the visit of
Parley P. Pratt to that noted place, which
overlooks the whole of Edinburgh. Bro.
Pratt, but newly arrived in the city, knelt
on this famous Arthur’s Seat, his eyes
resting on the city below and prayed to the
Lord to give him two hundred souls out
of that city, and he would be satisfied.
This the Lord did, just two hundred, no
more, no less. Mrs. Alder also spoke of
her ride through the Trossacks (by coaeh
and boat), and her sail on Loch Lomond.
	Miss May Alder recited one of her
mother’s poems, “Mary Queen of Scots.”
Mrs. George D. Alder sang beautifully,

[Column 2]
accompanied by Prof. Schettler on the
guitar,who also played “My Old Kentucky
Home” and “O My Father,” in his talent-
ed style. At this meeting Mrs. Alder had
invited the Reapers’ Club, and some of
her close friends.
	At the September meeting, 1902, the
president, Mrs. Alder, gave an interesting
account of her visit to the Countess of
Warwick, while she was in England, and
the efforts of the Countess to better the
condition of the poor girls in Birmingham.
Said all but two of the pen manufacturers
had been won over by the countess, who
was hopeful of good results from her ef-
forts to aid these poor girls (unskiilled
labor they are called).
	Mrs. Emma McVicker, our delegate to
Los Angeles, gave an account of the bien-
nial, also a Greek play she had seen, and
her visit to the club called Strawberry.
The account of her visit to the battleship
Wisconsin was truly appreciated.
	At the business meeting, held October,
1902, Mrs. R. B. Pratt was named as the
delegate to the Federation, to be held
in Ogden this month. Mrs. Alder, the
president, also attended the Federation.
	Miss Estella Neff, in Current Events, spoke
of the honor conferred on Miss Nannie Tout,
who had been invited to sing before Queen
Alexandria, and referred to others of our
Utah boys and girls who were studying
abroad, in Paris, England and Germany,
who had won honors in painting and sculp-
ture, as well as music. An address of in-
terest was given by Mrs. Ida Haag, on the
Russo-Japanese War.
	At the April meeting of the Club, held in
the Exponent office, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark re-
ported the meeting of the Federation Pro-
gram Committee and stated that an original
contribution had been requested from the
Press Club.
	Mrs. Francis gave a lecture on India and
East India life, which concluded the program.
	At the May meeting, held on the 29th of
that month, it was moved and carried that
the Club adjourn until September. Mrs.
Clark, the President, invited the Club to
meet her at the Lagoon, June 25th, 1904.
	On that occasion the Club and the mem-
bers of the General Board of the Primary
Associations were the guests of President
Clark. A delightful time was spent at the
Resort, where the guests were entertained
by Mrs. Clark, her daughter and friends.
An enjoyable program was carried out. All
present were unanimous in their opinion
that the meeting was the most enjoyable of
the season.
	At the September meeting of the Club,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox gave a most interesting
account of the chief objects of interest at the
World’s Fair, just held at St. Louis. Mrs.
Mary F. Kelly submitted two original poems
to the committee of adjudicators, for trans-
mission to the Federation of Women’s Clubs
at Logan. Mrs. Clark, President, and Mrs.
Estella Neff were appointed as delegates to
the State Federation of Clubs, October 20th,
1904, at Logan, and Mrs. M. Francis and Mrs.
Mary Kelly were appointed as alternates.
	The October meeting (the annual) was
held October 29th, 1904, at the home of Mrs.
Francis and Mrs. Kelly, 333 Second Street.
The election of officers resulted in the elec-
tion of Mrs. Maria Francis as President; Miss
Stella Neff, First Vice President; Mrs. Lillian
Maeser, Second Vice President; Mrs. E. S.
Wilcox, Secretary; Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, Cor.
Sec.; Mrs. Hattie Harker, Treasurer.
			(To be Continued.)


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you 
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

