Two Surveys In sharp contrast to the black map showing the prevalence of goiter in this part of the country, is the map presented by government agents affecting the liquor traffic indicating that Utah arid Idaho are almost in a white column. The issue of February 28 of the Literary Digest gives a map drawn by Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, showing the extent to which prohibition is not being enforced. In this map both Utah and Idaho show up to good advantage. They are in the lightest part of the map. Only three states in the Union are published as being only 5% wet, and these states are Idaho, Utah, and Kansas. Six states are 10% wet. These states are Wyoming, South Dakota, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Iowa and Tennessee. If Colorado, which is listed as being 15% wet, were only 10% or less, with the exception only of Tennessee somewhat removed geographically from the others, all these states having the lowest per cent of wetness would be together. Again there is reason for the Latter-day Saints to be proud, for long before the passage of the Federal Suffrage Amendment the states where Latter-day Saints resided had all been enfranchised. Now it turns out that the two states in which the greatest number of Latter-day Saints reside are the driest, and are matched only by Kansas which had statewide prohibition many years before Utah and Idaho entered the dry column. There are people who appear to be discouraged because of the wetness, particularly of the states along the coast lines, but the fact that many states in the interior are making headway with the problem should encourage those who are interested in enforcing the law. There are many people in Utah today who recall that thirty, forty, and fifty years ago, it was quite a common thing for English people to have beer in their homes, and people of other nationalities to drink other sorts of liquor. We recall distinctly seeing workmen on buildings given a glass of beer at 10:30 in the morning. Now, despite the fact that some people, who regard themselves as social leaders, insist on serving, at dinner parties and other social gatherings, liquor in various forms, under the mistaken notion that they are showing great hospitality to their guests, chiefly because liquor is hard to obtain and costly when it is obtained, there is improvement in the situation. None should be disheartened; but everyone should be seeking 176 -- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to order his life, his words, and his example in such fashion, that when the Prohibition Amendment shall be eight, rather than four years of age, there will be a notable decrease in the use of intoxicants throughout all this proud land. A Perfect Day It is not a great while ago that authors and composers gave the product of their minds without any thought of remuneration; in other words they had to depend on the kindness of well-disposed, interested persons to be able to publish that which they had created. Consequently, it is with a good deal of satisfaction that we learn that Mrs. Carry Jacobs-Bond has made her fortune through the writing of the words and the music of one song, A Perfect Day. Mrs. Bond was left penniless by the death of her husband. She tried painting china to make a living, and wrote some songs which she published in her own bedroom. Finally she wrote A Perfect Day which met with great favor everywhere it was sung. Five million copies of this song have been sold from which she has received royalties, thus making her quite independent. We take it for granted that most persons are acquainted with the words, but lest any may not be, we are including them in this editorial: A Perrect Day When you come to the end of a perfect day, | And you sit alone with your thought, While the chimes ring out with a carol gay, For the joy that the day has brought, Do you think what the end of a perfect day Can mean to a tired heart, When the sun goes down with a flaming ray, And the dear friends have to part? Well this is the end of a perfect day, Near the end of a journey, too; But it leaves a thought that is big and strong, With a wish that is kind and true, For memory has painted this perfect day With colors that never fade, And we find at the end of a perfect day, | The soul of a friend we've made. The Sego Lily (Utah's State Flower) By Elizabeth Noble Flower of our State, thy pure white bell, With deepest crimson flecked; Thy dainty grace proclaims thee queen, On fields with wild flowers decked, And not thy beauty rare alone To our eyes' make appeal, Thy homely roots, to hungry folks, Provide a welcome meal. As oft the famished pioneers Have proved in days bygone, When all that kept hearts from despair Was living faith alone. Faith kept alive by sight of thee, Sweet "Lily of the Field," Arrayed with beauty greater far Than kingly vestures yield. Oh, flower we love, when spring returns We welcome thee again, With thee our loved ones' graves we deck With thee greet Easter's reign. While life remains we'll cherish thee, Thy beauties we will tell; And take thy message to our hearts, Brought by thy snowy bell. 3