[Vol23 | November 1936 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Parable of the Good Samaritan]

WHENEVER Jesus wanted to impress a truth on the minds of the people he did it by telling a story.
These stories were called parables. One day while he was teaching the people he saw a fine opportunity to teach one of God's commandments in a way that would never leave the minds of the multitude gathered there, one of the great saving principles of his Gospel, a principle that the whole world is sadly in need of today, is contained in the great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
When we hear those words we wonder as those people must have wondered, who is my neighbor? Is it the family next door? Or is it only those with whom I like best to associate? The teachings of our Savior point the way for us in this problem. The beautiful parable of the Good Samaritan clearly shows us what our attitude should be.
True happiness comes only through service. The thrill of a good deed done to another not only lightens the load of a neighbor but brings peace and happiness into our own lives. And when we perform any little service for another, even if it is just a word of encouragement in time of need, we are being a neighbor to them whether they live near or far, and whether they are lowly in the sight of man or have reached the top of the ladder of success. I can imagine as people listened to the words of our Savior they would fall into the habit of calling him the teacher. One day while he was teaching the multitude, a learned man stood up in the crowd and asked, "Teacher, what shall I do to win Eternal life?" And Jesus answered, "What do the Scriptures say?" And the man replied, "Love God with all your heart, and your neighbor as yourself." Then Jesus said, "Do that and you will win Eternal Life." But the questioner, wishing to justify himself, asked, "Who is my neighbor?" In answer Jesus told the story of the Good Samaritan. So often we pass our neighbors by when they need our help, too busy with our own problems to stop and give even a word of encouragement to neighbors in trouble when just a kindly smile or a pat on the back might be the very stimulus they need to meet the trials before them and send them on their way rejoicing. I have a neighbor who lives just a few short miles through the fields from the ranch which is home to me. Her name is Agnes Just Reid and she wrote this little poem which lightens my load every time I read it: "Across the fields lives my neighbor, I seldom see her but I rejoice that she is there. Out towards the sunrise I see the smoke from her chimney And she sees mine, silhouetted against the evening sky. I know when the apple trees bloom in her orchard; I know when the grain in the lowlands is ready for the reapers, She, too, knows these same things about me; I know that when trouble comes to me, she will be the first to share it, She is my strength! She points the way to God— She is my neighbor." We have such a wonderful opportunity at this particular time to put into practice