[Vol23 | November 1936 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: TEACHERS' TOPIC]

TEACHERS' TOPIC (For January, 1937) THE PARABLE OF THE TALENTS (Matthew 25:14-30) OR the kingdom of Heaven is as a F man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. "And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. "Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. "And likewise he that had received two, he also gained cther two. "But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money. "After a long time the lord of the servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. "And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents; behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behcld I have gained two other talents beside them. "His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things, enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I know thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed. "And I was afraid and went and hid thy talent in the earth; lo, there thou hast that is thine. His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed. "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.. "For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." The story is true to the Oriental life of the period, for when a wealthy man was leaving his home for awhile he might leave his confidential slaves to act for him, letting them till his soil and use his money in trade.
There was an understanding that the servants would be rewarded for their faithfulness. The talent was about $1000 in our money; so ten talents represents a large fortune. The master gave the servants time to make good use of the talents. He returned after a long absence to call them to account.
According to the ancient law all that grew on a man's land belonged to him, even though he had not sowed or planted. It was in this relation that the servant accused the master of harshness and greed.
Keeping in mind the definition of a parable, "An earthly story with a heavenly meaning," we know that our Lord does not mean money, but the natural gifts and opportunity for service. If we fail to use our gifts and take advantage of our opportunities we naturally forfeit them and "from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." For the one who uses his 726 gifts and takes advantage of opportunity and responsibility for service devoting himself to the Lord's work is the "one who hath" and to him shall be given more responsibility and ability.
Discussion What is the meaning of "the more of love we give the more we have"? What are the opportunities for development through service to others?