[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Interpreting The Relief Society Employment Program]

INTERPRETING THE RELIEF SOCIETY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
By Eva Williams Darger IN the minutes of the first meeting of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo we find that those women assumed the responsibility of helping the needy to find suitable employment. As the organization has grown this work has continued, and thousands of women and girls have found pleasant and profitable employment through the Relief Society.
When it is recognized that paid workers in the home constitute the largest occupational group of women in our country, it is clear that we have a great responsibility to help place them.
Homemaking is a great art.
Household employees who are privileged to work in homes where there is a spirit of love, comradeship and fair play, learn attitudes toward homemaking which they themselves will carry on into their own lives as they marry and rear families.
Seventy per cent of the employees placed through the Relief Society are under thirty years of age. The majority are placed for domestic service.
There are many important things for young women who come to the city from smaller districts to consider: The health of the individual is of vital importance. It is advisable for a girl to have a complete physical examination before she leaves home.
References as to her character, background and qualifications from reliable members of her community should be obtained. She 'should be provided with funds sufficient to care for her needs until suitable employment is found. She should bring adequate clothing such as neat, modest dresses, shoes, stockings and underwear.
Some knowledge of the hotels, location of employment bureaus, addresses of friends or relatives should be had.
Some educational qualifications are necessary.
Systematic training in household tasks for all girls would be of great 72 benefit.
Where it is possible girls should complete their high school education. If household employment is chosen as the field of work, specialized training by which a girl may become a skilled worker, should be pursued. In this way efficient and well-trained workers, able to establish high standards of work would be available, instead of the unskilled laborers that are now for the most part all that are to be had. The director of the United States Employment service said at the National Conference of Social Work, "The biggest of all tasks today is restoring employment to workers, not merely finding the man or woman a job, but finding the right job for the man or woman." In order to accomplish this, vocational guidance should be given: to counsel and assist girls and women contemplating employment to obtain more insight into their own aptitudes, capacities, traits, skills, knowledge and background; to secure additional education or training for available employment opportunities; to make the most of educational, recreational and other opportunities provided by the community.
Someone standing between RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE these young women and society as a kind of two-way clearing station, bringing facts to the individual from society, and in turn bringing facts back to society that emerge out of the individual problems disclosed in the process is necessary.
With an understanding knowledge of human beings, skill in dealing with other people's problems, with the desire to strengthen and encourage the individual's faith in herself, this program of providing employment for women is being carried on. In working toward satisfactory employer-employee relations, much would be gained if the worker would do all in her power to maintain the highest standards of home life, to consider her relationships with the family confidential, refraining at all times from harmful gossip, to be careful of her personal appearance, respect her employer's home furnishings, guard her manners and language especially in the presence of children, guard her habits in order to maintain good health and to enjoy wholesome recreation, to remember the Golden Rule, "Do unto others as you would have them do unto " you. ADDRESS Bishop Joseph Wirthlin AM deeply interested in Relief Society. Perhaps I inherited this from my own mother. She was at one time, a Relief Society president, and as a young man I saw how a Relief Society functioned.
Many of its affairs came into our home. I saw much of the work that was done by the sisters of our ward in connection with this great work, and for that reason I have a warm spot in my heart for this great organization. I do not hesitate in saying to you that I do not think there is an organization anywhere in the world today that is comparable to it. It seems to me that your program includes everything that is good, lovely, fine, progressive, spiritual; and the organization has to its credit many outstanding accomplishments?accomplishments within the memory of all of us. I am sure if there ever was a time in the history of the Church when a Relief Society was needed, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that time is today. We are facing serious problems that will require the united support of every organization of the Church, and I am confident that the Relief Society will respond to each call that comes, as it always has done, and the same fine success will attend its efforts. Relief Society offers many splendid opportunities to the women of our Church. We have many talented women who most graciously give their time and abilities to the organization for the benefit of those who are not so privileged. JI am sure that if it were not for the fine program that has been developed there would be many women in the remote parts of this Church who would have very few opportunities.
There comes to mind now two instances. One is of a woman who has lived in one of the Canadian stakes for thirty years, in the home which her husband constructed when they first went to that country?a log house with two rooms.
When she and her husband first went to Canada they had high ambitions.
They were young and vigorous people and battled with the soil on the bleak prairies of Canada. One year they were successful, then for three or four years drought came and destroyed their crops. The sum total of their experience is that theyare still in the same log house situated ten miles from the nearest town.
Their physical comforts are few, but a highlight in this woman's life has been the fact that she was given the opportunity of teaching the literary work in Relief Society. Her president gave her the opportunity of going to Provo, Utah, to further her studies. She counts that as the 753 greatest blessing that ever came into her life. If it had not been for the Relief Society she never would have had that opportunity, and the joy which she now has would never have come to her. The other case is of a lady who lives in one of our districts. I have known her for years. As a girl she was shy and timid. In the course of time she married and moved: to a small town in California where there was a branch of the Church. The president of the Relief Society appointed her to supervise the Social Service department of the organization. She had never had any experience along that line; her knowledge was limited, but she had ambitions; so she set to work, visited the public library and studied all available authorities on social service.
Today she is an outstanding worker in her community. It is quite possible that if this woman had not had the opportunity of rendering this service and overcoming her inferiority complex, she would not have developed to any great extent. The Relief Society organization of the Church afforded her this opportunity and she made the most of it. The opportunities being offered to the women of this Church are a great inspiration, and I am sure the sisters appreciate the privileges afforded them. THERE is something else Relief Society has done?something being done now? which is most outstanding. We talk about the depression and its effects upon people; we hear the First Presidency constantly telling us to be frugal. The Relief Society is heeding that advice and setting a wonderful example. One of the fundamentals 754 that has come to my attention is that of good home management. I happen to have had the privilege of working in the Salt Lake Region, where a study was made of conditions relative to home management. We found that in many instances where people were on relief the mother did not know how to sew, to bake bread, nor how to do many of the simple things.
Because of the lack of this knowledge the family found itself in poverty. So the Relief Society has taken up a project of teaching people how to make bread properly, how to do the washing correctly, how to do good sewing.
About a year ago in a well-to do Salt Lake City stake a survey was made to determine how many of the women were baking their own bread and doing their washing and sewing. As nearly as I can remember, about 65 per cent of the women were doing their own work, 67 percent their own washing, and 60 per cent their own sewing. The Relief Society has gone into the wards and taught people how to do these things. One Relief Society president told me that she experienced much pleasure in going down to her laundry room on Monday morning and doing her washing because the Relief Society program had dignified this duty.
Connection with teaching our people to follow the advice of the First Presidency of the Church I want to compliment the Relief Society for teaching our sisters the necessity of properly managing their homes. The Relief Society has some definite duties in connection with the Church Welfare Program. Personally I cannot conceive of  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE any bishop trying to put over the Church Welfare Program without you?you are a part of it. If the program is to be successful you will have to be in it actively?you will have to be used. My experiences as a bishop and stake president have taught me, without any doubt, that the Relief Society has a very important part to play in the Church Welfare Program. It is true that we have the Priesthood quorums, and the Priesthood quorums of this Church should be so stimulated that there will come a degree of activity that we have never had before. It is through the Church Welfare Program that this activity will be stirred. For that reason welfare committees have been organized, composed of eight persons, the Relief Society President being one of them, and representatives of the various Priesthood quorums being the other members.
With the Relief Society president a member of this committee many of the problems now confronting us in connection with relief will be properly solved.
Women have an understanding relative to relief problems that men do not have; consequently it is important that the Relief Society have a definite part in this great program. Me2st of us think of relief in a physical sense. We think that if we administer relief in the form of clothing, fuel and food, that the job is done. As I think of the depression and the effects of it, there are some other forms of relief?forms of relief that have been mentioned by Sister Thompson.
There is a need for spiritual relief, recreational relief, educational relief, cultural relief, and there most certainly is a need for a very RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE close study of the morals of our communities.
These forms of relief will come largely through the Relief Society organization of the Church, and I personally think that they should.
When we think of the finer things in life, such as the spiritual, the educational, the cultural interests, the women of the Church are interested in these perhaps more than the men. I am sure that through the contacts with those who find themselves in destitute circumstances, through the mothers in the homes, opportunity will come to render educational, cultural, and spiritual relief. So, as this great Welfare Program progresses and continues to develop, we are going to find through the Relief Society that there are many problems that we can solve. We know that you are loyal to the Priesthood of the Church; we know you are loyal to the bishops. I never had a more loyal group in all my experience than the Relief Society of my own ward. I remember the time when forty families were thrust upon us through the depression. The first people we called were the sisters of the Relief Society. We formulated a plan and carried it out for General 755 more than a year. It was most successful and the task was well performed because of the cooperation and help we received from this fine organization. We are grateful for what you have done?grateful for this wonderful organization which came to us through the instrumentality of a Prophet of God. It has a purpose and a destiny, and I am sure you are well on your way to the fulfilment of that destiny.
This great organization of mothers promotes encouragement, kindness, liberality, sympathy, tolerance and unselfishness. It has a continual desire to do all that falls within the scope of the good, the true and the beautiful; in fact, I think the thirteenth Article of Faith applies to you and to your objectives: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul. We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." Session Thursday, a. M., October 6, 1938 TO RAISE HUMAN LIFE TO ITS HIGHEST LEVEL By Counselor Kate M. Barker O the women of the Church has been given a sacred trust, divinely given, which we must maintain and develop that it may be passed on unimpaired in spirit, enlarged in usefulness?"to raise human life to its highest level."
From this obligation nothing can absolve us.
Certainly if we meet our responsibility we must meet immediate present-day needs right around us, in our own community, our own neighborhood. We must get the vision of the Gospel ideal for human life, then we must see conditions as they are.
This we must see and then we must bring to it a new sense of responsibility. Our effectiveness will be in organ- 756 ization. One family cannot do much, but several families can; one group may not be able to do much alone, but all groups interested, if they cooperate and coordinate their efforts, can do much.
When it comes to human welfare who should lead out but the Relief Society whose major interest is human betterment?
Surely if someone takes the initiative, community resources may be so organized that no child need go through life handicapped because of lack of medical care or other necessary advantages.
Another community project might be the control of the type of magazines sold at the news stands in many of our towns. "Such magazines can nearly always be suppressed by the force of public opinion."
Public opinion can only be effective if someone takes the initiative in organizing that opinion to carry over into action. The hunger for friendship is one of the deepest longings of the human soul.
Growth and happiness is dependent upon happy human relations.
Solitary living destroys mental health. We must not interpret our Church Welfare Program altogether in terms of food and shelter; emotional security is equally important.
Neighborliness might well be revived and thus tone up the emotional condition of everyone. OF all relationships in the human world, family relationships are the most everlastingly difficult, and the most permanently rewarding." The greatest growth, the greatest BLESSINGS OF RELIEF RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE happiness can come from those close, intimate relationships of home and family, providing that the family seeks above all else to make life as meaningful as possible for all its members.
Intelligent understanding, sympathy, a high regard for the sacredness of the personality of each member so that each one feels he is wanted, loved and understood, these are the bases for wholesome mental health and happy family life. The family is a fellowship where through sympathy, love, understanding, cooperation, sharing, such strong bonds are built that they can never be broken, developing such companionship that all through life pleasures are enhanced and burdens lightened because they are shared. _ If marriage and family relationships offer such potential joy, should conduct of them be left to chance?
Young people are realizing that the only sensible procedure is to plan and build for happiness on a solid foundation of mutual understanding. To offer help in laying this solid foundation the Relief Society is offering a new course?"Education for Family Life'"?and the first year will be devoted to "Family Relationships." Dr. Paul Popenoe, Director of the Institute of Family Relations of Los Angeles, is the writer of these lessons. May we begin the year's work with the determination that we will so conduct our home life that there will be mutual sympathy and mutual understanding, such peace and joy that the Spirit of our Father in Heaven will dwell therein. SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP By Anna S. Barlow ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON once said, "When we look into the long avenue of the future and see the good there is for each of us to do, we realize after all, what a beautiful thing it is to work and to live and to be happy."
Every one is striving to live happily