[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Article by President Louise]

By President Louise Y. Robison
THE August 1938 issue of the Relief Society Magazine carries an Editorial which should be widely read. As an opening statement the Editor chose the following quotation from I Cor. 10:24, "Let no man seek his own but every other man's wealth." Upon the first reading, this statement appears to be a difficult injunction, but the Editor made it seem not only workable, but desirable by this statement: "Man's destiny is to become a creator and he is happiest when creating. Denied the opportunity to give of himself he stagnates.
"The Savior stands the pattern in giving as in all else. He invariably gave guidance and opportunity that joy and development might come to others. He had no need of the widow's mite but recognized the need of the widow to make the gift."
The editorial closed with the following statement: "He that provides opportunity for another increases the fruits of his own righteousness."
The opportunity to accomplish this is provided in the Church Welfare Plan. Our Heavenly Father has graciously offered every member in the Church, no matter what that member's financial condition might be, an opportunity to prove his willingness to "seek not his own wealth," but to help others. While the call came primarily as a Priesthood activity, the Relief Society, as auxiliary to the Priesthood, responded whole-heartedly to the inspired message of the First Presidency.
Before we were really given an assignment, Relief Society asked women who did canning of fruits in their own homes, to share with others and give every tenth jar to what was then called Church Security. Hundreds of women cheerfully responded and many testified that they were blessed in making this contribution. One woman reported that was the first time in the many years of her married life when all her fruit jars were filled.
The first summer after the Church Welfare Plan was announced, Relief Society in some stakes had city lots plowed, and women planted peas, beans and tomatoes. These women believe they were blessed, for their crops were bounteous, and without modern canning facilities these vegetables were canned with excellent results. Quilts and articles of clothing were made by the thousands. In fact, women were so busy producing they did not keep a record of the articles made.
HAVING the assurance that the Church Welfare Plan is our Father's Plan, and knowing that "the earth and fullness thereof" belongs to Him, we were confident that the Priesthood Quorums would provide for the material needs, but we saw the opportunity of helping some of the mothers to use these commodities to the best advantage. Relief Society, with the valuable cooperation of the Agricultural College County Demonstrators, began a systematic course of instruction in food. The value of properly prepared vegetables, homemade bread, and the necessity of having milk for children were considered. In order that all families might have sufficient, and to provide against waste, a food budget was introduced. The incomplete report indicated that 3,301 women were taught to make better provision for their families.
We have worked in sewing centers where women were not only supplied with clothing, but were taught to sew. Relief Society has, in the past, supplied quilts for those in need. Our policy now is to help them make for themselves. The slogan adopted is, "We work with people, not for them."
That there might be a market for the lovely handwork made by our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sisters, the "Mormon Handicraft" was established in 1937. In the first year more than $4,000 was paid to women who made these exquisite articles. We were in the Bureau of Information on the Temple Square, but we have recently moved to 21
West South Temple. The merchandise has been sold largely to tourists. If our own people would patronize the Shop when buying birthday, Christmas and wedding gifts, the revenue would bring comforts to many of our fine, courageous women.
Another activity was also promoted to give employment. Relief Society contributed $250 and one of our City stake Relief Societies added another hundred dollars, which was used to pay for temple work. This money was thrice blessed?it brought material comfort, gave encouragement and spiritual blessing, and was the means of redeeming hundreds of our dead.
As an organization we are deeply interested in the Church Beautification program, and were really pioneers in stimulating women to beautify their homes by planting flowers, shrubs and trees. Reports of this campaign showed that many thousands of trees and shrubs were planted, flower-shows held, etc. Each ward Society was urged to plant at least one tree.
We are opposed to the traffic and use of liquor, and have earnestly tried to provide interesting literature and have purchased motion picture films in the interest of alcohol education. Although now a Priesthood activity, we urge the women to do all in their power to have in every home the material prepared and distributed by the Church committee.
The health of the people, especially the children, has been a grave concern of Relief Society. Women in many localities have worked unceasingly to improve conditions. There RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are many, many children who will meet life more comfortably and efficiently through the efforts of our Relief Society, but the need is still most urgent.
SPLENDID as has been our work during the past year, the call is clear and definite for the coming year's work. Human values must be kept in the foreground. "The Kingdom of God for which we pray includes bread to eat, clothes to wear, wholesome homes in which to live, employment to challenge the best in a person, as well as sacrificial love to our fellowmen." Our Church Welfare plan encompasses each of these requirements,?and more?the absolute need of faith in God and a willingness to cooperate in giving service to others. Each of these requirements was included in the charge given to Relief Society at the time of its organization. We have a splendid record of achievement, but there is more to be done. So for the coming year we pledge ourselves anew to do not only more but even better work.
Comparatively few of our women have carried the load. Let us begin by being good community mothers. All mothers know it is easier to do home tasks than it is to get children into the attitude of wanting to do and of teaching them to do tasks well. We all know that we are not doing right by our children unless we teach them how to carry responsibility and to do so cheerfully. To my mind the most important assignment to the women of Relief Society is to get people in our wards into this attitude, and although it looks insurmountable, it can be accomplished. Let us not forget that God is always on the side of right. When we are working earnestly, under the direction of His Priesthood for the benefit of His children, a power greater than our own is with us. Leadership and cooperation are needed to popularize the Church program so that everyone will want to work, will want to have clean, peaceful homes, and to have comfortably dressed, healthful, happy children. Can you catch the vision of what it would mean if this simple program were universal?
Groups of people can be interested in almost any project provided someone can lead, organize the task and delegate responsibility. Definite instructions indicating how these projects might be accomplished would be helpful, but conditions in different localities are so unlike and the group requirements differ so greatly that only by working with them and knowing the needs can constructive plans be made. We must know facts in order to have an intelligent basis of understanding. As adult groups learn to think together and to analyze situations their interests broaden. In addition to knowing the local situation, it would be well to know what the conditions are in other communities. For example, if we knew that in 1935 every seventh person in the United States between the ages of 16 and 24 was on relief, we would have greater interest in helping young people of our own group. If we knew that half the male heads of families on relief had been out of regular employment for three years or more, that knowledge would give us greater sympathy in judging their needs or their actions.
THERE is a close relation between religion and mental health. A discouraged person who feels humiliated on account of her clothing, who is bitter because of what she feels is unjust, needs the most sympathetic understanding and tolerance to interest her again in Church groups. The best sermons of the Church are not all pronounced from the pulpit. Relief Society presidents are given the special mission of prayerfully and tactfully making the path easier for such individuals to re-establish contacts with the Church. And who does not need encouragement?
The most vital influence in life is a calm, positive testimony that God lives and that He is really our Father. To know positively that our Father and His Son Jesus Christ did visit the earth and restore the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to know that President Grant and his associates represent our Father here on earth?this knowledge is more precious than life. Spirituality is the only power that keeps human beings steady and unshaken when overwhelming sorrow comes. Outside of spiritual interpretation there is no solution for the problems of life. How thankful we should be for the great blessing of faith and the knowledge which our Father has given us. How careful we should be to keep this precious gift. Only our own actions can deprive us of it.
Those who know that President Grant represents our Father, recognize that he speaks to us the will of our Father. Relief Society is in the class believing that our Church can and will succeed for righteousness. When responsibilities are given, do we face them gladly, courageously, or merely fold our hands as though they were others' problems? In loyalty there are no such words as, "What's the use?"
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Our parents and grandparents gave evidence of this loyalty. Hundreds of them who had established homes were asked to leave them and take their families into even more unsettled places. As descendants of these brave people we are proud of their devotion, and we cannot do less when the Prophet of God speaks in our day. Church Welfare does not call for the heroic sacrifice our parents made. Church Welfare calls only for sharing the comforts which through the kindness of our Heavenly Father we enjoy; even if we were asked for all, does not that all belong to our Father who graciously lets us use His possessions? He gives us the very life and health to accumulate these material blessings.
I humbly pray that our Father will give us the power to see where we can serve, and the courage not only to do our part but to stimulate others that they may have the joy that comes through service. I pray that when we have the privilege of raising our hands in covenant to sustain the General Authorities of the Church, that we do more than manifest it by raising our hands, but that we make a solemn covenant that we will try our utmost to "manifest it" in our lives by cheerfully and eagerly following the counsel of men who hold the Priesthood of the living God.
The addresses given by President Heber J. Grant and Elder Melvin J. Ballard will be published in a later issue of the magazine.