[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a few minutes." She rode back to Fort Douglas, returning in about five minutes bringing two men and two shovels. In about three minutes I was out of the snowdrift. She was an aristocrat of the first order. "THERE are some things in our program so evident that they need no argument. Can you think of a Relief Society without thinking of its particivation in canning? I cannot. Can you think of a canning project without the Relief Society taking a big partin it? Iam going to parallel Sister Robison's remarks?what is true of sewing in a certain sense is true of canning.
There are going to be ward projects, stake projects and regional projects. I think in the Salt Lake districts most of the canning will be done in regional capacity, but it must be done in the wards in some places.
This thing must be attacked from two places?first, the home, and second, mass or group production. I think if there is anything sad in the world, it is the case of the woman who needs help in the home and yet who simply does not exert herself, who sits twiddling her thumbs while busy women work for her. You may know a woman who never participates in our activities.
What if that particular woman who never helps had not married whom she married, or suppose that she had not come to the home of her particular father?if we can imagine such things?what if her environment were entirely different, where would she be? I think a woman who shuts herself off from helping little children, though these little children may have an indolent mother, is losing a real opportunity in life. One of the best signs of lack of real culture is a lack of real human sympathy. If a woman who is blessed with the things of this life wants to handicap 747 her own children, she has only to keep out of their lives the sweetness that comes from a desire to help children not so fortunate. If you do not help little children, if you just let them "go to seed," if you do not touch their lives, they are going to marry and produce the same kind of offspring, and instead of having one parcel of responsibility you are going to have seven parcels of responsibility i in the next generation. If you can find an opportunity to reach an underprivileged family, that is a big item. If you have a ward canning group or a stake canning group and in some way induce the incompetent mother to participate with you, you have then achieved something. Put a clean apron on her, and everyone else can put on a clean apron so that she does not feel out of place. See that she does things well.
That may be the means of getting into her home and influencing her life.
Some women do not know how to do things. You must touch their lives, and if you can get them into a canning group and from there touch their lives at home, you are really going to accomplish something. I think where you have a woman of this type, prepare the women of the group to receive her kindly and respond lovingly to her needs.
While she may not be just up to the standard of the group, help her, and it will reflect itself in the home. I think you women are very, very foolish if you do all the work. Ask the men to lift the lugs of fruit and do the heavy work.
From my experience with men, if you let them get away with it they will let you do all the work. It is an inspiration to be here this morning. It is an inspiration to see 748 just how you ladies work. You take things more seriously than men, you come better prepared.
After all your name is Relief Society and you are certainly the embodiment of your name in every way, and we do RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appreciate your attitude and cooperation. The address "Deseret Industries" by Harold B. Lee, will be published in a later issue of the magazine. General Session Wednesday, October 5, 1938 YOUTH SPEAKS By Janet M. Thompson In the present time the United States has over twenty million boys and girls between sixteen and twenty-four years of age who are the potential citizens of tomorrow. We depend upon these boys and girls to control this country?theirs is the responsibility for carrying on.
These twenty million citizens are facing the most difficult situation, probably the most dangerous, which has ever confronted youth in the history of this nation. Dr.
Rainey says, "Discouragements and frustration of the normal aspirations of millions of our young people present one of the most painful aspects of the contemporary scene."
Because of these frustrations and discouragements many of our best informed educators have reached these conclusions: first, that present conditions demand an immediate remedy; second, that a long-range program is necessary if we are to equip youth to carry on. Let us consider these suggestions in the light of the many opportunities we have to strengthen faulty gaps.
Young people desire experience ? _ responsibility, security and recognition.
They recognize the need of more education, more permanent jobs and better recreational facilities. In view of these facts one is inclined to ask: How many young people in our Church are out of school and out of employment?
What type of experiences are they reaping?
They can choose well if wholesome experiences are provided them?if they choose a lower course of action, they will not find security.
What educational advantages have they had? A young person may have a wonderful education but when there is nothing to occupy his time and mind, how easy it is to lose sight of cultural values.
What are their attitudes toward life?
What are their needs in educational, employment and recreational fields? If we are to be an influence in helping to meet some of the handicaps of youth, how may we best proceed?
Church organizations offer a solution to many of our problems.
Church machinery provides something for everyone to do.
While it provides some permanent jobs and some of the material things of life, its richest contribution is the SPIRITUAL.
Youth believes that a widespread return to religion is necessary to the progress of the nation. It wants spiritual leadership.
Leadership is developed through Church activity. Church Seminaries and Institutes are invaluable.
Where young people have been graduated from high school or college and are not associated in any way with these religious units, would it be possible to make arrangements for them to receive religious training in these institution?
Oftentimes when youth neglect Church duties, it is considered a personal matter and not much is done about it. Why not make these personal matters ward or stake responsibilities; do something for youth in a collective way?work toward a ward, stake or regional goal; aim to build SPIRITUAL SECURITY? Religious forums conducted in the evenings might prove a source of real worth. Why not make this a returned missionary activity? Youth is thrilled to have missionaries relate the deep and abiding truths they have learned in the performance of their missions. How valuable their experiences and training! What greater service could they extend than to keep the light of the Gospel message aglow in the hearts of wavering youth? Junior Church Beautification committees might be organized, also Junior Church Welfare committees, to plan a program similar to the 4-H Club movement. A community forum composed of members and nonmembers?where adults might serve merely in an advisory capacity ? where youth could be free to develop 749 individual interests and needs might also be organized. Can we meet the needs and desires of youth by making such forums retraining schools? Are we utilizing our Church amusement halls and school buildings sufficiently? Have we attractive centers to which to invite youth? If there are no such accommodations, invite young folk to provide them? let that be their responsibility. Unoccupied and unemployed youth should find happiness and satisfaction in making social centers attractive?should also enjoy clearing vacant lots and beautifying them. What facilities have we for leisure-time occupations? "Leisuretime occupations should have the importance of any occupation ? frequently they have the germ of a new job within them. Occupational versatility is a bag of gold." The Relief Society Magazine offers many helpful suggestions for youth. Are we particular to see that young folk read it? How many of our young girls are reading the articles on "Women We Should Know"? COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION By Emeline Y. Nebeker COMMUNITIES are doing much for their people in health and in education. Governmental health activity in the United States began shortly after the formation of the Republic with the organization of city boards of health. The passage of the National Social Security Act with its very large allocations to the states for improvement of health services has quickened the movement and will unquestionably tend greatly to raise the standard of health service throughout the country. A most valuable and farreaching result will be the improvement in the training of medical personnel. While it is true that public agencies must always bear the main burden of protecting public health, the services of the volunteer organizations are always essential to progress. These are of two classes, the first having a membership limited by professional qualifications and the second often including large groups of interested laymen as well. 750
Through large endowments for the promotion of human welfare profound contributions have been made to public health through laboratory and field research.
Life insurance companies were among the first commercial enterprises to establish medical departments.
Many national organizations, lodges, service clubs and others have health departments or committees. For many years the needs and care of crippled children have engaged the interest of public and private organizations. We all know the wonderful work of the Primary Association of our Church for many of these handicapped children. The Senate Finance Committee in its report on the Social Security bill in May, 1935, stated that there are about 300,000 to 500,000 crippled children in this country, and estimated that about one child in every 100 is crippled." Asa result of the provisions of the Social Security Act, state plans for relief and other services to the physically handicapped have been greatly stimulated in recent months. The mentally diseased or deficient constitute another group requiring attention.
Health education more than any other health service requires the effective cooperation of volunteer organizations with official agencies, both locally and nationally. The Relief Society thas always been interested in health and nursing.
Soon after the arrival of the Pioneers in Salt Lake Valley in 1847 a council of health was established, with a view of conserving the health of mothers and children. Today Relief Society is cooperating with Public Health nurses, school nurses, and all others interested in this important subject. The nutrition program recommended by our Work and Business committee for this year's study RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should be of great help in promoting child health. COMMUN ITY interest and effort has not only been directed toward the field of health but education along all lines has received public support.
Adult education in the United States has become an integral part of the country's life. In the past five years it has assumed the proportions of a national movement, "with literally millions of participants, and many thousands of professional and lay leaders." For the fifth consecutive year of the W. P. A.
Program in education enrollment showed an increase, according to the recently issued report for the year 1937-38.
Total enrollment for the year was 1,586,211, as compared with 1,569,529 in 1936-37?an increase of over 16,000. L. R. Alderman, W. P. A.
Educational director, reports that a five-year goal of teaching one million illiterate adults to read and write has reduced illiteracy in this country about twenty-five per cent.
