[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]
lesson department means a great deal more than providing class members with a wealth of supplementary material. It means well directed effort in the selection, arrangement, and use of teaching material in order to achieve desired teaching objectives which the class has agreed upon, based upon the subject matter contained in the Magazine. The Union meeting lesson is not a smooth unfoldment of ideas which move from a point of departure to a logical conclusion as is the ward lesson. Rather, it is analytical in nature. It assists in the interpretation of the Magazine material. It aims to aid class leaders in defining objectives; it aids in organizing subject matter, stimulating and assisting in the selection of authoritative supplementary material; it anticipates lesson trends and problems that may arise and fortifies the class to cope with these. The most enlightened methods of presenting the work are developed. Each woman is given opportunity for growth and development through guidance in the basic principles of good teaching. This may have to be done incidentally, due to limited time, but it is never lost sight of.
Opportunities for growth are provided through active participation in the lesson: Special teaching weaknesses of certain members receive attention. Some may have to be converted to the work they have been called to do; with others confidence must be established in their own abilities; where interest and enthusiasm are lagging encouragement is provided.
The influence and strength of the Board is felt when ward visits are made. These visits are made with a spirit of friendly interest and helpfulness?ward strengths are observed, teachers and officials encouraged, and their good work commended. Every visit should be purposeful. If there is a message to be given, it should be expressed briefly. Ward difficulties and failures often serve as a guide in the conduct of Union meeting departments.
Last and possibly most important of all, the strength of the Board should be felt wherever a Board member finds herself. She represents the leadership of Latter-day Saint women. She is dignified, ever expressing the finest in womanhood. She is an example to all in upholding Latter-day Saint ideals and standards and so conducts herself that any seeing her may say, "Where she leads, there am I safe to follow."
Church Welfare?Relief Society Assignments
Relationship of Relief Society to Home Service
By Robert L. Judd
I COME to you this morning by direction of my superiors and not of my own choosing. I feel most humble in your presence, and trust that I may have your moral and spiritual support in this effort.
As I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith is God's plan of life for His children, so do I know that it is through the inspiration of our Heavenly Father to His present prophet that we, the membership of this Church, are under commandment today to work out among the unfortunate of this Church what is known as the Welfare Program.
It has not been easy to make the progress that we have made up to the present time. The problems we are seeking to solve are difficult of solution. We are fighting for the great principle of the right to live in honor and self-respect for all. We are waging this fight in a world of avarice, greed and class hatred, and the latter never more than today. In a world that man has made for himself, in the main, without dependence upon our Heavenly Father, a great unbalancing of those things which go to make a secure life has occurred. The balance between production and market, between distribution and the ability of the people to acquire those things which they need for consumption has been entirely upset. From every part of the nation and the world have come acclaimed panacea for the trouble that faces us, but none seem to work.
It is nine years ago about the ninth of November, since the Stock Markets of this nation, as a herald, trumpeted to us that we had been an improvident nation and had lived unwisely, and that we must suffer for our sins. Today we are still suffering, at a time when the harvests of the country are more abundant than in many years past.
I have the abiding conviction and faith that we, the members of this Church, can free ourselves from the condition that we are in. My faith and my conviction of that fact is supported by what God has done for His children in times past. I remember distinctly the lesson which came to me, and has continued with me from the situation the Children of Israel found themselves in at the time that Moses came to them as their deliverer. They were mixed up in a world much more difficult for them to understand than the world which we are mixed up in, but God delivered them through their leader. There was none among them who could have attempted to figure out how that deliverance would come, but we have it in Holy Writ that their leaders and many of the people had faith that God would keep His promise to them, and I imagine that if we had stood that day with Israel on the shore of the Red Sea, with the armies of Pharaoh gathering at our rear, as they had them, we would have quaked and wondered if indeed God was to deliver us, but Moses stretched forth his arm and the waters parted and the Children of Israel were delivered.
I COME now to another time in the history of our own people which supports me in that conviction that we can be delivered. You remember the troubles and trials that confronted the Saints during the winter of 1846-47 in Nauvoo. It just appeared that nothing could work out for their deliverance, and yet Joseph Smith had said that they should be delivered, that they should come to the tops of the Rocky Mountains and become a great people, and Brigham Young and the leaders had faith in that, as did a great many of the people. It was in February when the command was given that they should cross the Mississippi River and start their trek west; there were those who had faith that through that movement they would be delivered. There were some who did not, and they stayed instead of crossing the Mississippi, and what has become of them? I had the privilege of being in that country recently, and they are not to be found; they have been swallowed up and lost, whereas those who had faith to cross the Mississippi River, and undertake this trek, have been established in the Rocky Mountains, and we, their descendants, testify of their deliverance.
And so it is today. We can be delivered, not through our own power, but by and through the power of God, if we live in accordance with and follow His directions. Our Church organization is equal in every way to meet this emergency and help us out of it. It can accomplish our objectives for us if we will put our hand to the task.
To exemplify what I mean, let me review with you the objective of this welfare work. It is first to provide those who are unable to work for what they get with food and clothing and other necessities of life. It is to provide those who can work, with work to do, and to assist in their rehabilitation. Now as exemplifying the first: After eighteen months of operation it was determined that we would figure out a budget for the Church based upon our experience. From this it was estimated that 45,000 people in our ranks would need help between October 1, 1938; and the last day of April, 1939. Based upon that load there was budgeted to every stake in the Church that which it could best produce to be accumulated as the source from which all people would be supplied. From my understanding of the way in which that budget has been carried out, I have absolute faith that during this period to which I have referred, every individual in the Church in need can be taken care of.
Now to exemplify the second point?the rehabilitating of our people: Does our organization measure up? It does where we make it measure up, and may I hurriedly give you what to me is a thrilling example of that. One of the corporations in which the Church is interested last April decided to tear down a large block of its buildings situated in the center of the business district of Salt Lake. It asked for bids from professional wreckers for tearing down these buildings. A bid was received in the sum of $2,150 to be paid the owner, the wreckers to have all the materials that came out of the buildings. Someone suggested that it ought to be a project for the Welfare Program. The project was gone over, and it was so risky that we thought we should not undertake it at the expense of the welfare of our people. To demonstrate just how risky it seemed, we went to the Industrial Commission and found that the rate of insurance for carrying our compensation would be 46c on every dollar of pay-roll, and to get it from a paid insurance company it would cost us 54c on every dollar of pay-roll. It seemed that it was about to be given up, and then a meeting was called. In the course of the meeting somebody said, "What would Brigham Young have done under the circumstances?" Somebody else spoke up and said, "He would have done the job," and therefore it was agreed unanimously that we would do the job. The Industrial Commission kindly let us carry our own insurance, and we went forward with the job. We furnished approximately 43 men, gathered from the wards of this region by the Priesthood and the Relief Society with 70 days of work, and provided their families with the cash needed for light and rent and things of that kind, and their food from the storehouse into which your sacrifices had gone.
I WANT to make my point with you sisters of the Relief Society as to what you can do in the home work. I cannot add materially to what was said six months ago. We know you will cooperate with the Priesthood of your wards in working out the problems which I have suggested. In connection with the home service work, you will cooperate with the Priesthood in making investigations such as will enable people to be served to the best advantage from the abundance which we have gathered.
I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless us and inspire us all to the great accomplishment that is ours. May we carry forward this welfare work for the redemption of the membership of the Church from the bondage that they suffer as a result of conditions that exist.
Relationship of Relief Society to Sewing Projects
By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are happy in having members of the Church Welfare Committee with us today. We anticipate having definite instructions on the best way in which we can assist in promoting the Church Welfare Program. From all our stakes and wards women are asking, "What else can we do?"
When families or communities or nations unite on a policy, those families or communities or nations can be raised to any standard to which the leadership is competent of taking them. Having a testimony that the Church Welfare Plan is inspired by our Heavenly Father and that the First Presidency are His authorized representatives on earth, we believe that under their leadership we can be led to greater accomplishments than we have ever known.
Relief Society has been given the responsibility of caring for the used clothing. After two years' experience in this work we have some definite suggestions to give to our sisters. Through the visiting teachers we have an excellent opportunity of informing every household in the Church of the need we have for used clothing. We hope the visiting teachers will understand the program in order to acquaint the women they visit with the need of giving articles which have some value.
Clothing should be collected only in such quantities as can be segregated and cared for at once. It is not a good policy to store clean and unclean clothing, woolen and fur trimmed articles in promiscuous piles. Before sending used clothing to storehouse or serving center the president should select and keep in the ward sufficient to supply her own needs, retaining such articles as can be used in teaching women to sew, as well as providing them with material for making over for their families.
Through the proper approach and having only one person appointed to make the contact, valuable material can often be obtained from apartment houses in large cities.
Determining where sewing centers should be opened, whether in wards, stakes or regions, is the responsibility of the Priesthood, as the expense of operating sewing centers is always met by the Priesthood authorities of the ward, stake or region. We believe, however, that the advice of the Relief Society presidents in establishing such centers will be valuable.
While it is most desirable that all women give voluntary service in sewing centers for supplying the needs of the people served by the center, we feel that they should not be required to sew for people in other localities. We have Relief Society women in every locality where there is need who are capable of sewing for their own ward or stake and who know their own needs better than any other group. We suggest that women who are given employment on bishops' orders could profitably do extra work on surplus stock to supply an emergency order from the General Committee. In localities where there is a shortage of material Relief Society ward presidents should ascertain the clothing needs of their people and notify the stake president, who should make requisition on the region or General Committee for material to supply these needs.
Under proper 746 supervision women would have the opportunity of giving voluntary service and those who require assistance could be paid for their labor, as they are in larger centers.
