[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony]
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 5
These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth?(Cont'd.)
Helpful References J. E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 217-229. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve. Consult index for references to each apostle. C. R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. 139-157, 161-180, 183-201. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 63-69, 71-78, 48-55, 144-155, 56-62, 40-47, 122-134. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 112-128, 149-162, 163-177, 178-192, 193-211. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 82-91, 92-103, 104-112, 113-123.
Nathanael, an Israelite Without Guile?In this lesson we shall consider the remaining members of the original Twelve of whom little is known. Nathanael is, unfortunately, among this group for the Gospels say very little about him. There has even been some dispute over his name. The Synoptic Gospels speak of a Bartholomew as an apostle, but no mention is made of Nathanael. (See Matt. 10:3; Mark 3:18; Luke 6:14.) On the other hand the Gospel of John mentions Nathanael and never Bartholomew. It is thus practically certain that both names are applied to one and the same individual. Bartholomew is of Aramaic derivation and means son of Tholmay. Nathanael means God has given. He seems to have been a resident of Cana in Galilee. (John 21:2.) This town is some distance from Bethsaida, the home of Philip his friend. In a previous lesson we considered the fact that it was Philip who sought out Nathanael and made known to him that he had found the Messiah. Nathanael's skeptical nature made him say, "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" (John 1:46.) To his credit he followed Philip. He may have been skeptical, but in the best sense of the term. He had the spirit of the man who is willing to be shown, of suspending judgment. Our Lord on seeing him said, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!" (John 1:47.) There were no traces of deceit, treachery, or cunning devices in the soul of this man. He was straight and fine and clean. Nathanael heard Christ's words and the latter explained, "Before Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee." (John 1:48.) This was an astonishing statement. He realized that by supernatural means the speaker was acquainted with a particular incident in his life that he supposed was known only to himself. What it was no one knows. The Gospel respects the secret. At any rate Nathanael was convinced that his friend Philip was right. "Rabbi," he said to our Lord, "thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel." (John 1:49.) In return Christ blessed him with a great promise. "Verily, verily, I say to you, ye shall see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man." (John 1:51.) Of this fine character we should like to know more but the record is silent.
Thomas, the Honest Skeptic?The name Thomas is from the Aramaic toma and means twin. It is so translated by the Greek Didymus in John 11:16. We know practically nothing of Thomas' background. He was probably a Galilean, but who his parents were is a mystery. We do not even know whether his twin was a brother or sister.
Thomas seems better known for his doubts and questions than for his positive virtues. The very fact that Christ chose him to be one of his little band of Twelve shows that his inner nature and splendid worth were only too apparent to the Master. The Gospel of John has characteristically preserved for us a few bits of information that help us estimate the character of Thomas. The courage and love of Thomas for the Savior was displayed when the latter announced his intention to go to Lazarus and raise him from the dead. (John 11:11.) That there was considerable risk attached to the journey is shown by the words of the disciples: "Rabbi, the Jews were seeking but now to stone thee; and art thou going there again?" (John 11:8.) Thomas spoke up to his fellow disciples and said, "Let us also go, that we may die with him." (John 11:16.) While this statement betrays Thomas' courage and love it also points to his despondent or melancholy disposition.
There is little of the element of hope in his words. On another occasion the Master made the famous declaration: "In my Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you; because I go to prepare a place for you... And where I am going ye know the way." Apparently Thomas did not have the spiritual insight to understand Christ for he said, "Lord, we know not where thou art going; how do we know the way?" (John 14:2-5.) Mueller comments on this speech as follows: "It is a pathetic speech, thrilling with devotion and love of the man who saw his great Friend and Master going from him into the unknown, whither he was expected sometime to follow. The way was dark, and Thomas far from home." We can quite understand the reason for our Lord's remarks when he said, "I will not leave you orphans; I am coming to you." (John 14:18.) The incident best known in Thomas' life is the one which has caused the world to coin the epithet "Doubting Thomas." The risen Christ appeared to his disciples who were meeting behind locked doors for fear of the Jews. All of the apostles were there with the exception of Thomas. Why he was not there can only be a matter of conjecture. On his return his companions related to him the appearance of the Lord.
Thomas would not believe them. "Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe." (John 20:25.) Many have been the comments on his remarks.
Certain of these are to the effect that Thomas displayed the true scientific spirit. But to doubt the testimony of ten other great men in a matter of this kind is, in our opinion, nothing more than a commentary on the fact that Thomas had a temperament that was very uncommon among men.
