I I Alfred Lambourne Graduation Exercises of the Class of Obstetrics and Nursing. Another successful season for the Relief Society Class in Nursing and Obstetrics has just closed in this city with appro- priate exercises. The graduates were young women of intelli- gence and superior qualifications. The lectures and lessons were of the usual excellent quality and the whole was a gratfying sea- son in every respect. The following inspired remarks were made President Francis M. Lyman. I have been in the business of employing nurses for about four years, giving steady employment all along. Generally, they have been older people. I have had a great variety and, as a rule, we have had splendid satisfaction from those who have helped us. They have been very willing, and sympathetic, and considerate. It has been a little difficult, with those whom I have had in my home, to determine whether they are "trained" nurses, or those who have been instructed in these yearly classes. We — look upon those from the hospital who have had two and three years' experience — as trained, graduate nurses. It is a very important matter and mission, that you are ac- cepting, and have undertaken, I suppose, because the Relief So- ciety have advised, and are anxious that there should be an ample — supply of those who are able to take care of the sick both poor and rich. And I beg you will treat the sick all alike. So far as I have heard, you are summoned to the houses of those who are able to pay for service, and to those who are not. It is under- stood that the Relief Society nurses, particularly, are to be ready always for charitable purposes. Be ready always to help the poor. We have found quite a number of nurses who have helped us, and who have been willing and ready to discover what we have needed, without our telling them. x\nything they could put their hands to in the home, they were always ready to do. Gen- erally, the women who have been with us, have been women from a home, who have had people depending upon them — many have been mothers of families, and have had experience in doing all useful and proper labor in the home. Don't be afraid to help in the house in any necessary work when you are not otherwise em- ployed. One feature I want to emphasize for you. dear sisters, and that is, you do not go into homes to do "drudgery." There is no 
 such thing as drudgery. People who are able to pay for your service, would be able to give $3 for another girl to do the heavy work, as a rule. Whether they employ you solely for nursing or not, you should be glad to take hold of anything there is to do in the home. You do not go out nursing for pleasure you go for; service. If they are not able to pay for service, you go there without any pay, as charity workers. Make of yourself a pleasant companion, so that they will want you back again. We have had nurses come to us, over and.over again we have sought them, and they have been willing to; come, over and over again. It is quite an accomplishment for nurses to feel at home, and make themselves at home, and be serviceable. If the mistress of the house is the one who is sick, the nurse should relieve her in her household aflfairs. as well as 1 hysically. I suppose it would hardly occur, excepting where no wages at all could be afforded, that a special nurse would be the only one in the house. There is generally a housekeeper, and one to do the washing. We have never had any drudgery in my home. We do not look upon honest work as drudgery. All workers in my home found nothing objectionable in the home. My wives and daughters could take hold of any work readily, to help out, and none of them made drudgery of work. It is a good thing for a nurse to be on hand to give her services in any direction needed with pay or without pay, ani make it just as pleasant when she is paid, as when she is not. When you go out empty handed, you will be greatly blessed by the Lord, and will receive gratitude from the people. How many of you have had a patriarchal blessing? Teri. Every person should have a patriarchal blessing. We will bless you all, but it will not be in writing. We will bless you and set you apart, asking the Lord to give you wisdom and success. I trust you would not hesitate to give help in any home. T think this should be the duty of every Relief Society nurse; that wherever there is human suffering, you will give and do the best you can. You should not refuse to attend non-"Mormons," but help them as best you can, and with as much solicitude as you would give in the homes of Latter-day Saints. Everyone one of you should have your patriarchal blessing. Go to a patriarch, and have it written. You will always find ])atriarchs who are at your service, and you will be able to get blessings from them, and not from anybody else. It is in their line, and belongs to them. They are blessed and set apart, and instructed in that line, and should be, and are, ready to give blessings to those who require them and need them. I have had more than one blessing, and have had those who wanted to bless me. I have appreciated them all. This may occur with you; but at least one patriarchal blessing should be received by each Lat- GRADUATION EXERCISES. 381 ter-day Saint. I want to tell you about these things, so that you will know my views. expected of you that you will continue to be students, It is aixl learn more and more, until you become more efificient with ]M-actice and experience, so that you will be able to help others, and be fully equipped. You who are not married, get married, the first opportunity, because a married woman knows a good deal more than one who is not. Take that as a general rule. Generally, unmarried girls are very bright, and have had much experience, but there is an experience and training in the marriage relation, and in the rear- ing of a family, that cannot l)e obtained in any other way. Just the same way as with a mission. A young man cannot become so thoroughly trained, but what he needs a mission. I have had friends who have been on missions, and those who have not. and I could always discover something lacking in a man who had not had an experience in the mission field. You cannot get it all at home— a man needs to go abroad. I want to say further, no man is full-fledged that is not mar- ried;and no woman is full-fledged who is not married and a mother. They should marry, and have children of their own, be- fore they are quite perfect. "]\ran is not without the woman, nor v/oman without the man, in the Lord." All are lacking, unless they have completed the object of their being. They are not in the Lord complete and perfect, without a family and marriage is: — not enough, alone they need to be fathers and mothers. T always advise that boys and girls should marry and multiply and replen- ish the earth. That is their calling. They cannot be perfect without this. The Lord will bless you, my dear sisters, in ac- cordance with your labors. Approach the Lord in prayer, trust Him. and seek for His assistance, and help in Avhatever you do. Pray before you go into a home, pray after you get there, keep on praying while you have life. When you have the welfare of a soul in your hands, treat it as very precious. .V human life is the most precious thing on the earth. You are expected to give your very best consideration, thought, and wisdom for the benefit of those who need your as- sistance. V\^t want you to obtain the fellowship antl blessings of the Lord, and those you serve will feel a benefit from your touch, your presence, your movements about them, and you will fill them with hope and consolation, and be as ministering angels. Thus, } ou will find that training and experience will be favorable to you. and it will help vour hearts and souls, and comfort you. and give you every consolation which you require. We bless you. and trust that this General Relief Society class for 1916. under the teaching of Dr. Koberts. will reflect credit upon her splendid efforts and training for you.