[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: TRIENNIAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL | Author: LYDIA RICH,]

TRIENNIAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL
	WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY.
Madam President, Officers and Members of
	the National Council of Women of the
	United States;
DEAR FRIENDS;—
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
with headquarters in Salt Lake City, Utah,
had its origin in the City of Nauvoo, Ill., at
a called meeting of a few progressive women
held in the Masonic Hall, eighteen in number,
the President of this magnificent Society is
the only living member of that small but
memorable beginning on the seventeenth of
March 1842, sixty-seven years ago. It was
christened then and there by that select com-
pany, The Relief Society, and much charit-
able work was done there during those first
years. Since that time, the Society has
spread abroad until we can truthfully say,
the sun never sets upon this organization.
The Society stands for the broadest funda-
mental principles of charity and philan-
thropy. It has reached nearly all civilized
lands upon the two continents, and has
many branches upon the islands of the sea.
	Enumerating the countries we can include
the United States, Mexico and Canada,
across the Atlantic—England, Scotland, Ire-
land and Wales, Norway, Sweden and Den-
mark with some of the adjacent islands, and
very recently the land of the midnight sun.
Other European countries are Germany,
Switzerland, Greece, Turkey, Holland and 
Belgium; also Australia, Tasmania, New
Zealand, South Africa, Sandwich Islands
and Samoa, thus it is evident the Society is
International as well as National in scope
and character. All are included under the
General President and staff of officers, who
look after the entire Society, but necessarily
there are many Presidents with their local

[Column 2]
officers, who have charge of divisions and
subdivisions; all harmoniously working for
the best good in the given Society, and for
the betterment of the united whole.
	Much of the information needed is given
by correspondence, and through the Woman’s
Exponent, a paper devoted to women and
to the work of this Society in particular. It
is the oldest woman’s paper in the Rocky
Mountain region established in June 1872.
	Women missionaries visit annually under
the direction of the President, and attend
conferences held at designated places at a 
stated time. These missionaries are inde-
fatigable in their efforts, often encountering
many difficulties, giving freely of their time
and ability with zeal and devotion in the
work of uplifting humanity; not only in 
public speaking, but in special instruction,
to women, who have not had the larger op-
portunities of gaining knowledge and educa-
tion, sometimes not even special home train-
ing.
	We maintain that mothers need help out-
side of their own circle; a sort of develop-
ment that reaches their inner consciousness
and causes an awakening, leading into larger
fields of interest and thought, as well as
bringing them into closer relations with real
life; always uplifting in its tendency, cheer-
ing the spirit, and strengthening the body,
making life’s burdens easier by affiliation
and union of purpose in many directions in
neighborhoods and groups, withal teaching
the practicality of the saying of the Savior,
“Love thy neighbor as thyself.”
	Our work is large indeed, covering a vast
area of country, requiring other languages
to be spoken, and the knowledge of human
affairs in the realm of woman’s kingdom,
and an expansion of mind and soul, heart
and brain to the highest excellence of attain-
ment within the range of woman’s possibili-
ties.
	We are obliged to deal in generalities to
give an idea of our methods of work for the
advancement of those who are out of “the
schools,” so designated, but have entered
the highest school of the world, The Home.
	Home life, parenthood, the problem that
if solved by the loftiest and grandest aims
and motives would bring to pass, the most
perfect civilization of communities and 
countries, revolutionizing society, and there-
by establishing the broadest philanthropy
the world has ever known.
	But however we may idealize our Society
the work must be done by physical, mental,
moral and spiritual activities, in all the
avenues that lead to usefulness and adapta-
bility; there must be facilities; houses, halls,
machinery, storehouses, libraries, and will-
ing hearts and hands for the accomplishment
of the various purposes undertaken.
	The Relief Society School of Nurses under
the immediate direction of the general Soci-
ety with a woman physician as Instructor,
aided by lectures from other celebrated med-
ical men and women has been a grand fac-
tor in our charitable work, and was fully ex-
plained in last years’ annual report. This
school has graduated hundreds of nurses,
who have passed a rigid examination and
gone out among the people under the direc-
tion of the Superintendent of Nurses who
takes charge of them after graduation.
	During this last year the Society has ap-
propriated about one thousand dollars to
purchase linen and material desired for use
in the L. D. S. Groves Hospital in this City,
and the articles have been cut and made by
the women of the Society freely as a labor
of love.


The storing of grain by this Society is one
unique feature, something never before un-
dertaken by women. It was begun in 1876,
and has been of value and importance in
our own community, and has also given us
an opportunity to relieve want in times of
calamity, not only near home, in San Fran-
ci co, but abroad in China.
	It is not a joke as some seem to think,
but to those who have known the times of
scarcity a sacred obligation.
	In last years report we mentioned the ex-
pectation of the Woman’s Building being
ready for occupancy in June of this year,
1909, but it has not yet been finished; we
hope now it will be completed in October
of this year.
	We cannot close this official report with-
out an expression of appreciation of our be-
loved and venerable President Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith whose life long efforts in
the interests of philanthropic endeavor have
ever been a loyal example and an inspira-
tion, and her beautiful life is of itself a
blessing and a benediction.
	It is always sad to record the passing of
women in the prime of life, and in the midst
of usefulness, but in this instance it is un-
avoidable, however deep our sorrow at the
loss. Since our last report in November
1908 two of the valued members of our
Board of Directors of the National Woman’s
Relief Society have gone behind the vail.
Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde, First Vice-Presi-
dent of this Society passed peacefully away,
March 12, 1909, in the full tide of her use-
fulness, being stricken down only a few
months previous to her passing away. De-
ceased has filled several positions of trust
and responsibility for which she was emi-
nently qualified by nature and education;
Mrs. Hyde attended the Triennial Session
of the N. C.W. held in Washington in 1902,
as Proxy for the President, and will doubt-
less be remembered by many of the ladies
who were there at that time.
	Mrs. Rebecca E. Mantle Little another of
our Board, passed to the beyond, May 29,
1909; she was a graduate of the Utah Uni-
versity and one of the Regents of that Insti-
tution for a number of years; and had taken
a degree of Bachelor of Science. Mrs. Little
attended the Executive Session of the Na-
tional Council of Women held in Toledo,
Ohio, in April, 1906, and became a Patron
of the Council while there, and took an ac-
tive part in its proceedings. These noble
women will be greatly missed in the Society
for their valuable service in the cause of
higher education, equal suffrage and uni-
versal pr gress of the world at large.
	In the joyful and loving service of minis-
tering to the needs and sorrows of others,
we find our own souls benefited, and our or-
ganization stands for the alleviation of the
woes of humanity, so far as human aid and
sympathy can extend, and the spiritual up-
lifting may be exercised in the tenderest
and most far reaching way, always keeping
in mind the motto of the Council the “Gold-
en Rule” To do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.”
	With greetings from the President, the of-
ficers and members of the National Woman’s
Relief Society and an ardent desire to co-
operate with the National Council in pro-
moting the efforts made for the progress of
humanity along all the avenues that lead to
justice and righteousness, we are fraternally
yours
		Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		General Secretary N.W. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUTLINE FOR MOTHERS WORK.
	MORGAN STAKE.
Lesson 1. The Sin of Gossip.
	“Nay speak no ill, a kindly word,
	Can never leave a sting behind.”
	(a) Of the many beautiful precepts taught
by Jesus none is more important or less re-
garded than “Judge not that ye be not judg-
ed” (Matt. 7: 1). “A good tree cannot
bring forth evil fruit” (Matt. 7: 18).

Lesson 2. What Influence has Evil Speak-
	ing.
	(a) Does it harm the speaker (Psalm 34:
13; I Peter 3: 10, 11). Its Influence on chil-
dren. (b) Explain how it may mar the life,
or place a dark blot on the character of the
one spoken of, also the influence it has on
the public, (James 3: 5, 6, 8; Prov. 25: 23—
26: 18, 20).
	“Be not the first to speak it
	If you a fault should see.”

Lesson 3. Parable of the Ten Talents
	(Matt. 25: 14-30).
	What talent do I possess and do I culti-
vate it. Patience, Faith, Cheerfulness, the
power to instruct or comfort others, or any-
thing that helps to make life better and
brighter are talents that should be cultivat-
ed.

Lesson 4. Language in the Home.
	Give meaning of Mother Tongue, “He that
hath a perverse tongue falleth into mis-
chief.” Impure language displeasing unto
the Lord read James 3; Matt. 12: 36. Cor-
rect language necessary at all times and in
all places.

Lesson 5. Habit.
	How shall we form good habits? How
shall we teach the value of good habits to
our children (read Improvement Era, March
1903, p.377; Juvenile Instructor, March 15,
1900; Young Woman’s Journal, October
1906).

Lesson 6. Proper Home Ideals.
	The love of the beautiful is a handmaid
of civilization, “For as a man thinketh in his
heart so is he” (Prov. 23: 7). “Be ye per-
fect even as your Father in Heaven is per-
fect,” (Matt. 5: 48; II Samuel 22: 31). Aspi-
ration to excel in everything that is good or
praiseworthy should be instilled,encouraged
and developed in our children. Why? (Ar-
ticles of Faith 13). The love of order and
cleanliness should be so highly developed
that every member of the family would be
uncomfortable when conditions were other-
wise.

Lesson 7. Social Purity.
	“To be socially pure one must store the
mind with pure enobling thoughts.” “Bles-
sed are the pure in heart for they shall see
God (Matt., 5: 8).
	(a) Avoid slander, vulgar language and im-
politeness.
	(b) Overcome selfish tendencies.
	(c) Cultivate truthfulness, integrity, good-
ness and pure thoughts (Eph. 5: 3, 4).

Lesson 8. Affection.
	1. Love of parents for each other.
	2. Of parents for children.
	3. Of children for parents.

[Column 2]
	Aim: Love in the home is necessary to
gain and maintain the highest ideal in home
government. General truth—Love induces
patience, gentleness, long suffering, etc.
	Suggestions: 1. If we love one another
God dwelleth in us, and His love is perfect-
ed in us, (John 4: 13). Thou shalt live to-
gether in love (Doc. and Cov. 42, 45; see
Doc. and Cov. 121: 41-46). Love may be
encouraged by a proper consideration of one
anothers’ feelings.

Lesson 9. Temperance and the Word of
	of Wisdom.
	Effects of example and how extensive?
What physical benefit? What spiritual bene-
fits to be derived there from?

Lesson 10.
	How the father should counsel his sons—
work as an educator.

Lesson 11. Companionship of mothers and
	daughters.
	Motherhood and its responsibilities. 

Lesson 12.
	(a) Visiting the sick, effects of cheerful
company, looking after the poor. Improve-
ment in home life.
	(b) Responsibility of teaching the gospel
a very essential duty, (Mark 15. 16.
			LYDIA RICH,
					President.
			MARY J. WELCH,
			MARYETTE WALDRON,
					Counselors.


