GUIDE LESSONS. 597 When families increased and finally settled in large cities it was impossible for people to find enough different personal names with which to distinguish themselves, and so they began to add either a sire name or a nickname, or named themselves from an office, a place of residence or a trade, followed by the first name, which took the place of the surname. The surname, however, did not really become such unless more than one generation bore the added name. At first personal names were compounded, that is, two personal names might be given to a child, or a temporary nickname might be added to his personal name, etc. If a nickname, such as Long or Short, Young or Old, Black or White or Red, Winter or Snow, or Crooked Leg (Cruikshank), became fastened to a person and his children were called by their personal names with the nickname added to it, the nickname then became a surnaine after the second generation. Sometimes people were surnamed from the places where they lived. This was one of the most frequent styles adopted by the Anglo-Saxons in the middle ages. For instance, a man who lived by a wood would be called John Atte Wood, and by and by the name would be John Atwood; or Atte Well, Atwell. Another form of the surname was taken by men or given to them because of the office or profession which they followed. John the Clerk would soon be John Clerk or Clark, while Thomas the Parson would be Thomas Parsons, or William the Wood Reeve would become William Woodruff, and Daniel the Dispenser would, after a time be known as Daniel Spencer. Nearly all surnames which come from offices or professions are Norman, because the Normans were the office holders in England for many centuries. The Anglo-Saxons were the trades people and they took their names from their trades. William the Cook, John the Taylor, Henry the Baker and David the Wheelwright, would become William Cook, John Taylor, Henry Baker and David Wheelwright. The Hebrews kept the tribal name added to the personal name and these soon became surnames. They also finally gave place names and nicknames as surnames. For instance, Simon Bar-Jonah was Simon of the tribe of Jonah; Simon, the Cyrene was Simon from Cyrene; and Simon the Zealot was Simon the Fanatic. The Romans had three forms of names: 1st, the personal name, which they called praenomen; 2nd, the tribal name or nomen; and 3rd, the surname or cognomen. Chinese Name System.  The Chinese kingdom adopted surnames nearly two centuries before Christ, and each family oi tribe carefully trained a genealogist to memorize and record all 
 vital data of the family to its utmost ramification. Twelve hundred years before Christ a Chinese king issued an edict which compelled all his subjects then living to make a verse and to take one word of the verse for each generation surname. These facts have been discovered recently concerning the Chinese people. Teutonic Name System.  All Anglo-Saxon countries have followed more or less closely the usual surname evolution, and we will discover that as we follow along in our lessons. The events following the Norman conquest of England introduced surnames into that kingdom and we take up in some detail the various surname forms of England as they illustrate the same habits and customs adopted by other Anglo-Saxon countries. Nearly every civilized country, the United States being the last, has framed laws to govern and control the formation of names and their legal adoption or change of individuals, comprising the name. QUESTIONS. When does it become necessary for society to adopt surnames? What is a nickname? When would a nickname become a surname? How do people get surnames from their place of residence? Give an illustration of an ofificial or professional surname. Give an illustration of a trade name. What can you say of Hebrew name customs? What can you say of Roman name customs? What can you say of the Chinese name system? Why should laws be enacted to regulate surnames? What is your own surname and where did it originate? Note.  Let the class leader set each person in the class to discovering all possible facts concerning the surname of each student. LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in November. CONSERVATION OF WOOL AND WOOLEN CLOTHING. Wool is the most important of the animal fibres used for clothing materials. Primarily, it is the hairy covering of the sheep, includedbutin certain goats' and of the classification camels' woolenhairy growth is sometimes materials. GUIDE LESSONS. 599 The great value of wool as a fibre is dvie to its strength, elasticity, and softness: it absorbs different dye-stuffs readily, and when woven it furnishes a great number of air spaces, thus rendering the clothing made from it very warm and light in weight. Because of these characteristics wool is chosen by the U. S. Government for the material of a majority of the articles of wearing apparel and the blankets of our soldiers. For this reason, and because many sheep have been killed by recent hard winters, and many of their feeding lands have been converted into farm lands, the people of the U. S. are confronting the winter with a comparatively meagre supply of wool on the market. However, there are many ways in which the house wife ma}' meet this shortage and clothe her family and herself as comfortably and as well as they formerly have been clothed. Much good material, in many instances far better in quality than any that may now be purchased, is laid away in chests and store-rooms. Eevery bit of this woolen material should be wisely used, and no new wool should be purchased until the material on hand has been made into suitable condition for wearing. Woolen dresses, of soiled, worn, or of unsuitable design or color should be dyed or ripped up, cleaned, .sponged and pressed. They may be turned and made over, combining, if necessary with some other material of harmonious color and texture, into dresses that will probably last through the season or longer. Suits, both men's and women's, which have given full service for the grown-ups may be remodeled into outer garments for the boys and girls. The life of these garments, as well as of the new ones, may be prolonged very materially by proper care. Woolen dresses, suits, and coats, should be brushed after each wearing, carefully hung on coat-hangers, and put away out of the dust. Covers of paper-cambric, made to slip over the handle and to button below the bottom of the garment, protect the garments which are worn infrequently. All undergarments should be kept in constant repair, darning worn places as soon as they begin to appear, and darning or patching the.small hole before it has a chance to grow. Worn urdergarments, b}^ careful planning in placing of the pattern on the best portion of the garment may be cut down into smallersized undergarments, saving all trimmings for future patching. Worn knitted sw^eaters should be raveled, the yarn wound into skeins washed, and dried, it may then be reknitted nito smaller sweaters, caps, or scarfs, alone or in combination with other yarns of suitable color or weight. Often from two worn sweaters, a good one with a cap to match can be evolved. If the yarn does not need washing, when raveled, the skein may be 
 heatecl in a steamer or double-boiler and then hung to dry; this process will remove all the kinks from the first knitting. The solution of the problem of the mother, who finds it necessary to purchase new materials for the children's clothes, is in the use of mill ends. Naturally, when the supply of wool is so short, the garments made from wool in the different percentages are correspondingly high in price. But by going to the knitting factories and carefully selecting short lengths of material of weight, length and color suited to the garment to be made, material of good quality and at a nominal price may be secured. And by careful placing of the pattern, cutting, and a short time spent in the making, underclothes, dresses, trousers, sweaters, and other garments of good material will be the result. To sponge new woolen material, to prevent shrinkage and spotting of garment after it is made up, the material should be spread on a wet towel or long piece of muslin, and the two rolled together as tightly as possible; after twelve hours, the material should be pressed on the wrong side with a dry cloth laid over the material. To remove grease spots from woolen material, sponge with warm water and white naphtha soap, placing a bath towel imder the spotted place. Rinse with luke-warm water, and press. Soap bark, soaked and strained, is good for cleaning a whole piece of material that is to be dipped in the solution. Fuller's earth sprinkled over stains, caused by contact of the material with the oil of the skin, and allowed to remain several days before being brushed out, will usually remove all trace of the stain. To press garments, place a heavy cloth, wrung dry from water over the garments; use a hot iron and.press until almost dry. Hang on hanger to dry. Hot irons directly on the goods leaves marks of the irons as well as weakens the fibre of the material. The shine of worn materials can often be removed by sponging with coffee or vinegar diluted with water, following by pressing and then brushing against the nap. The woman who uses every means at hand to make the garments she has serve to the limit of their usefulness and then uses mill ends for the rest, is fulfilling her patriotic duty in respect to the woolen situation at the present time. She not only is establishing habits of thrift, but she is setting free a greater portion of the available supply of wool for the protection of our soldiers who must brave much exposure in the fighting of our battles, and she will be saving money, which may be profitably invested in War Saving Stamps or Liberty Bonds to help carry on this war to victory for right and liberty. To the Presidents of Relief Societies and Members of Choirs Dear Sisters: We are happy to tell you that the Relief Society Song Book, which has been prepared with much skill and thought, will be ready for distribution in a.short time. A great effort has been made to include in the collection found in this book, songs for every occasion, for congregational singing and for Relief Society choir singing, etc. The Music Committee has endeavored to include so wide a list of hymns and songs that it will meet every need of the Relief Society throughout the Church. The book is divided into two parts; the first contains a selection of hymns from all our Latter-day Saint hymn books, suitable for our ward and stake meetings; the second part has been compiled especially for choirs with soprano and alto parts, for use in wards where such choirs have been organized. Special stress has been laid upon restricting the range of the songs. Some of our best and most popular hymns have been recast to permit the shortening of range so that the ordinary voice can encompass them. The Music Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society, with President Emmeline B. Wells herself in attendance, have gone carefully over the work in detail. Following are expressions from the Music Committee: "The selections in the book are from the very best authors and composers, and while the airs have not been changed the music has been so simplified that it can be played by any of our young girls who are able to play the simplest music. I am very well pleased wtih the book and glad to know that we are at last going to have a book which will meet the requirements of our Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. "Phebe Y. Beatie, 'Chairman Music Committee." I am glad to know that our Relief Society sisters will have a song book with music suitable for their voices, for we have long felt the need of a book of this kind. "Edna May Davis." "The musical needs of our women have now been met by furnishing them a Relief Society Song Book filled with the sweet and simple melodies suited to their voices and also suitable music for all Relief Society occasions, both congregational and choir. "Janette a. Hyde." Send your orders to Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society 28 Bishop Building Single copies. 75c; by the dozen, $7.80. Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, 1918-19  The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and |  Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, Sep| I tember 16, 1918, Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. |  Term eight months.  |  This course consists of general instructions in |  nursing, emphasizing Home Care of the Sick, with | practical demonstrations, seven and one-half hours |  per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures |  and practical demonstrations in Invalid Cooking, First |  Aid Work, Hydrotherapy, Sterilization, and lectures | I on Elementary Hygiene, Public Health, Contagious |  Diseases, Drugs and Solutions, Prevention and Treat| I ment of Diseases. These lecture courses, which are |  given successively and cover a period of five hours a |  week, will be given by prominent physicians, surgeons  and other specialists. Each student of this course | I will be required to do at least twenty-five hours of |  field work in practical nursing during the term under |  the direction of the school. Tuition $25.00 cash,  thirty days service charity nursing. Tuition to be |  paid and contracts to be signed upon registration. |  For further information, address |  MRS.