How to Make a Kapok Quilt Ilean H. Poulson
One of the most attractive and useful gifts I have ever received was a kapok-filled baby quilt. It was given to me by my husband's mother when our first baby arrived nearly six years ago. Since then we have made three additional quilts of this type.
They are favorites with our children because they combine attractiveness with unusual softness, warmth, and little weight. — Because of the scarcity of kapok during the war years we were able to make only small quilts. Adults who have used quilts filled with kapok claim that the insulating properties of this material make it equally useful for filling light summer quilts.
The following directions indicate the steps necessary to make the quilt. The same procedure can be used for a down-filled quilt if you are fortunate enough to possess enough down for the purpose.
Secure enough medium weight unbleached muslin or ordinary flour sacks to make a bag as wide as you wish the quilt to be made and twice the desired length. Fold across the center and join the ends, but do not join the sides of the quilt. Machine stitch through the center, lengthwise. Then begin at one end and sew across the quilt at intervals of about eight inches to form two sets of deep pockets.
The pockets are then filled with kapok. I use one pound for a large Page 38 crib quilt, less for smaller ones. Divide the kapok evenly among the pockets and sew the sides to prevent the escape of the down-like kapok. The kapok is then distributed evenly throughout each pocket and a row or two of loose basting stitches lengthwise through each pocket will aid in keeping it in place, preventing bunching.
Machine stitching, especially if it is very close, reduces the softness of the finished quilt. Kapok quilts should not be washed. (Experience was my teacher, and a good one.) They do seem to enjoy frequent outings on the clotheslines to air and sun.
Since it is essential that the cover be washed when used for infants, we made outside coverings that were removable and washable. My favorite covering is a colorful patchwork top made of soft, bright percale scraps pieced together with flour sacks that were dyed bright yellow. The lining for this cover was also made from the same bright yellow material.
Care must be taken to select only very soft materials for this purpose if the fluffy kapok is to show off to best advantage. The cover and lining are placed with the right sides together and seamed along both sides and one end. Make sure that the quilt and the covering will fit perfectly by using the same measurements for
HOW TO MAKE A KAPOK QUILT each.
Then turn to the right side and slip the completed covering over the kapok-filled bag. To complete the quilt, after the inner bag is properly fitted within the cover, close the open end of the cover, with small invisible stitches. The quilt is then tied with yarn in the same way that grandmother used to tie the heavy woolen quilts of her day.
Quilting or tying this type of quilt too closely tends to pack the kapok. Therefore, it should be tied only where necessary to hold the inside bag and the cover in place. It then takes but a moment to snip the ties and remove the cover to launder it. If, after use, the kapok becomes somewhat lumpy it can be fluffed by lightly pulling the lumps apart with the hands. This can easily be done without removing the cover.
Joanna (Continued from page 25)
She noticed suddenly that the room had grown dark and that she had not heard the children for some time. She rose hastily and went in search of them. They were at the far end of the block, watching a neighbor rake autumn leaves into a burning pile for the delight of his children. There were two of them. They raced around their father, shouting with delight when sparks showered around them.
The man caught them and held them under each arm, laughing over them, pride in his face. Joanna's children stood shyly back from the blaze, spectators only, taking the new role humbly. "Children," Joanna cried, unaware of the tears scattering from her eyes. "It's time for supper. Did you forget? Let's have a race home." They leaped around her like puppies. "Race! Race! Should we give Sally and Mike a head start?" "Oh, yes. David, you and Penny get way back here. Farther, much farther." Her voice had a queer catch in it, but they didn't seem to notice. 'Now, run!" They sped away from her; leaves whirled up from their feet. She watched their fleeing forms. Penny ran like a doe, fleet and wild, her dark hair streamed behind her. David ran with his head down, his arms close at his sides. Michael laughed when he ran, spurts of laughter, pushed out of his fat body. Sally only pretended to run, not really interested in such a boisterous