prayers, and whether or not our children have a testimony of the gospel. A few years ago the following suggestions were given by Dr. Wayne B. Hales as helps in family life:
1. Always be an example to your child.
2. Establish confidence among your boys and girls.
3. Establish traditions for your home so strong that nothing can come to break it. Have various days stand out as events in the home.
4. Use the agencies that are available for building character. Morality can be taught as well as arithmetic.
The parents who can plant devotion and faith in God in their children have already laid a good foundation for a fine and happy life.
The value of the blessing on the food and family prayers gives spiritual joy and gratitude in the home. People who pray together do not get very far apart. In our modern Latter-day Saint homes we must teach by example the principles of honesty, dependability, and righteousness. It is the responsibility of the home to teach the three R's: righteous living; reverence; and responsibility.
How do we teach righteousness? By righteous living. Reverence? By devotion to prayer and to Church principles and teachings. Responsibility? Each member should be given responsibility.
Home Work Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest
The Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1948 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the June 1948 issue of the Magazine, and closed September 15, 1948.
The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, 35 "F" Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Profile of Joseph." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Miranda Snow Walton, 165 West sth South, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Another Mary." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Alice M. Burnett, 1128 East Elm Street, Lima, Ohio, for her poem "Infant Daughter OF."
This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1932, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.
Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate.
A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were seventy-two poems submitted in this year's contest, as compared with 105 entered last year. Many of the poems submitted this year were of outstanding quality and revealed beauty of thoughts and literary technique of distinction, and nearly all of the entries were based upon an interesting and significant idea.
All of the 1948 prize winners have received previous awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest.
The general board congratulates the prize winners, and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes also to thank the three judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith.
First Prize Poem
Profile of Joseph Dorothy J. Roberts Page 7
What gentle stage of hope Could steer His vision through a labyrinth, untried?
What outrage, rooted deep within, denied
The holy serpent of whispering fear? A manna from his forebears tinged his blood.
Their priestly trumpets quivered in his veins.
Their solemn altars marked the templed mind
Of the faithful Israelite who brayed the flood
Of jeers that tumbled through Judean lanes;
Who talked with angels and whose way was kind.
His travail, wind-writhen on Egyptian sand,
As under simple silver found its grave.
For desert is fluid as a breaking wave,
Less than the hand of veiling spy before
The mystic strand. Sphinx and Pyramid.
Luke cannot pave The Way with Knowing,
Nor the Gospels save;
The Flight remains a phantom on the land.
But once, in Matthew, can his lather be heard?
Faint as the first cicada's violin.
An once watch him seek, with anxious brood,
An adolescent on earth with no word
To point his personality. How thin
The cloth of centuries that shrouds him now—
More beautiful than bare, his profile glows
Among the snows of Ararat.
Dorothy is Roberts, Salt Lake City, is the wife of Paul Roberts, who is a member of the Deseret News Staff. Mrs. Roberts, a sifted poet of fine accomplishment and great promise, is a member of the "Sonneteers," a group of Utah Poets, and is presented with them in a recent anthology "Stone and Star." She is also a member of the League of Utah Writers. Her poems have appeared in Church and local publications for several years and are particularly familiar to readers of The Relief Society Magazine who very much enjoyed her