were shabby and tumbled, red brick, most of them, with porches long in need of paint and with sagging, broken steps. Joanna turned and looked at her own house. It was red brick, like the others. The door, behind the battered screen, was flanked by two square windows. 'The window on the right was cracked, brown sticking paper following its course. She went up the path, up the stairs, into the house. She looked around the little sitting room, with its coal heater in the corner, the leatherette sofa along one wall, the chair that matched it standing against the opposite wall. Her treadle sewing machine stood under the starched lace of the curtains, mending spilled out of the reed basket. She looked at the threadbare rug, and the straight back chairs as if she were taking inventory. 'There were two pictures on the stained brown walls. One was "The Angelus." She had cut it out of a magazine and put it in an old frame. The other was also a magazine print, "Sunflowers" by Van Gogh. Joanna stared at it, dazedly, remembering how she had atways loved, the fierce, wild beauty of the sunflowers. She had imagined the mad artist plunging them violently into the squat vase. Today they seemed garish. She went past the picture into the kitchen. The table was loaded with cakes and pies and covered dishes from the hands of kind neighbors. The kitchen range sent out a _ cheery warmth. She opened the lid and poured more coal from the bucket that stood on a newspaper. She looked at the linoleum, no one but herself knew that under the gay rag rugs the pattern was worn through to the boards. The kitchen chairs stood neatly against the green painted walls, Sally's battered doll. On one of the gingham cushions. Joanna straightened the gaily embroidered dish towels on their rack. She went swiftly through the children's bedroom. 'There were only the two beds, covered with the quilts she had made from scraps her mother had sent her. She opened the door to the bathroom that would be icy cold all winter and closed it again. She went to the bedroom she had shared _ with David. HE touched the wooden footboard, her hands dragging. She smoothed the crocheted spread. She sat for a moment in the small rock- : Makes your mouth so sweet to look Upon? Love or me, Joanna?" derful thin $ | Morning Paper from - Tell her PI seng it tight back " It was most snatched the from him on his Teturn. She took Was lying OPEN on the It back to her 5 dresser. She Ose and Went over 10 Soup kitchens On Winter MOrnings, There was 4 woman on teness, no peu i next street who had put her Was a strong face avid children in an Orphanage, while she had cal] d it beautiful, finding slaved for the Meager Wages a Pleasure the high cheek bones downtown cafe paid. Depression and the Square, firm jawline A spectre, striking foog from chi] "You will always be lovely, Jo dren's Mouths, driving People oyzt anna," he had told her "Time won't of thei; homes, destro his mode] - You (Continueg On page 39) Sixty Years Ago and Januaty 15> 1889 man's Exponent, January }; from the Wo OF THE or ZION AND THE RIGHTS THE WOMEN LL NATIONS" WoMeEN OF A NEW YEAR'S MORNING Each mom ls Morn of a festival to keep. —H. H. ETH ANNIVERSARY: On the 29th of December | iversary of het birth. Sister. Kimball has ed the seventieth ann markable woman, and at the present writing lS 4 tal activity as she was at forty. Sister Kimball has the first woman to lay the corne e first Relief Society buildthis dispensation. She thus describes it:— 'Iver trowel and mallet, were fyrnished me, and, assisted by a Master Mason, and surrounded by an assemblage of people, I had the honot of f the first Relief Society building erected in this dispensation. SALT LAKE STAKE: held in the Assembly R in th Fourteenth Ward,, "We have more reason to be commencing at 10 am. SI thankful to God than any peoP put we should be grateful that we are; let_us rea dissension and wat. We are enjoyin Prophet, and inc pray for; let us be charitable and merciful one famine, and let us be prepared for 1 orly paid. One woman be a lawyer—a P hich ability commands honor and profit—her application is refused by the court, >. Ephere is to marry, not to labor for her own support. There are about 79,00° lac and in all France there are o00 women engage nearly 200, BY-AND-BY Be quiet, restless heart! The long light lies In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hi"; The home-bound swallow, twittering as he tes, Makes silence seem more still —Primitive Methodist Page 26 CA TS L/ fl bY a group of Relief Society women from Essex County, New Jersey, with true Latter-day Saint thrift in their bones, saved vegetable crops from being plowed under by going out to farms and picking the vegetables for canning purposes. Pauline Thomander, President of the East Orange Relief Society, read in a newspaper that the crops would be plowed under, as a protest against low market prices, and immediately went into action. A local newspaper carried a picture of Mrs. 'Thomander and Mrs. (Constance) Hyde, a class leader in the same organization, happily at work. Other Latter-day Saint women from Montclair and the Oranges, continued the work the following day. BOARD President 'Truman's train, during his recent campaigning tour, was a handsome young woman from Copenhagen, Adelheid Nielson, who was reporting for a Danish newspaper. AZEL BRANNON of Mississippi, at thirty-four, is publisher, owner, and editor of two newspapers in her State. She has won national press prizes. LL of Finland's libraries will be directed by a woman, Filia S. Wirla, who has been studying and traveling in the United States. Mrs. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Witla says many libraries were destroyed during the war. She expressed Finland's gratitude to the United States for gifts to her country to help rebuild its stock. She was amazed at the library facilities in this country. "TAKING part in plays presented by the Mutual Improvement Associations helped Marilyn Robinson of Ogden, Utah, to scale the talent ladder which was_instrumental in her winning out in one of the talent contests held in Atlantic City in August. "Miss Utah" of 1947, Miss Robinson was one of the finalists for the crown of "Miss America,' and won a first place in dramatics in the talent contests. 'The young lady sings, dances, is an ex- _ pert swimmer and diver, and has won unusual acclaim for playing leading roles in University of Utah dramatic presentations. Besides all this, her scholastic rating is exceptionally high. Interested as she is in dramatics—and_ talented—she_ expects to marry and hopes to have a family. CENSUS officials believe that by 1950 there will be sixty per cent more women between the ages of forty-five and sixty-four employed than there were in 1940—an increase of one and one-half million. The best assets for job hunters in this age bracket are courage and good health. Page 27 CQ-—> EDITORIAL SO VOL. 36 JANUA