RY 1949 Renascence 1049 rejuvenation of hope and expectancy seems to herald the arrival of each new year, and as the echo of the pealing of the bells sounds there is born in the heart the echo of a dream of better things to come. A review of the sorrows, disappointments, and failings of a passing year inspires a fervent prayer for greater strength to overcome and achieve in the oncoming year. A woman may quickly judge for herself the success she has attained in keeping her home clean and attractive, but it may be difficult for her to judge her success in enriching the intellectual and spiritual growth of her family. She may rather easily evaluate her obedience to certain definite commandments—the payment of tithes and offerings, observance of the Word of Wisdom, but be less sure. Of her response to that second great commandment—to love her neighbor as herself. Often it would seem easier to sacrifice than to refrain from a malicious tale or defamation of a character; easier to forego certain foods than heed the call of the despairing. And yet one's life here foreshadows one's life in the hereafter. Whatever degree of intelligence one attains to in this life will rise with one in the resurrection. One's Page 28 character, one's desires, and one's appetites do not change with the change from mortality to immortality. As Alma explained to one of his sons many centuries ago: Do not suppose because it has been spoken concerning restoration, that ye shall be restored from sin to righteousness.... Restoration is to bring back again evil for evil, or carnal for carnal, or devilish for devilish—good for that which is good; righteousness for that which is righteous; just for that which is just; 'merciful for that which is merciful. (Alma 41:10, 13). To live each day of the coming year so that goodness, righteousness, justice, and mercy will be restored at the time of restoration is the great goal to seek. Only the present moment need ever be lived. By eschewing temptation now and living in righteousness now, any Latter-day Saint may begin to build, through the coming year, a celestial pattern into which she will fit as the Great Designer intends. No matter how far distant the goal may appear from a review of one's actions during 1948, let a rejuvenation of faith and hope surge in the heart, and a resolution be taken to live in the year 1949 so as to rise far above the valleys of doubt and darkness of this present world to eventually achieve eternal life in the highest kingdom of glory. M. C. S. D 2 Meeting Sebruary Q ALTHOUGH Tuesda son has been outlined for Febr their meet; 8S on days in Societies which 2, 19409 is a holiday, a social] science lesvary since some Relief ) other than Tuesday. It j y, February 22, 1949, cial science lesso them together on March 22. Relief Society Assigned Gvening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March 'THE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in Mar ch 1949, has First Presidency for use by the Relief Society, Quick and Easy Dinners Sara Mills HERE was a time when a person could say, "Come have bread and milk with us," and mean it. In the year 1949, however, entertaining is a little more complicated. And it isn't your fault or mine. As a substitute for bread and milk, I have a number of simple menus. They leave a maximum of visiting time, and what is more important, they also leave the cook with enough energy to want to talk. If they need further recommendation, they are nutritious, an important virtue these days. Either of the two meals listed below can be prepared in an hour—if the cook is nimble. DINNER No. 1 Canned consomme with crackers or croutons *Baked sweet potatoes with crushed pineapple Fried ham Peas, frozen or canned Tossed green salad Dinner rolls Fruit DINNER No. 2 *Bean, tomato, and sausage casserole *Green salad or cabbage chop suey French bread toasted in oven with garlic butter *Pineapple cream RECIPES BAKED SWEET POTATOES WITH CRUSHED PINEAPPLE Sweet potatoes (1 good-sized one for each guest) Can of crushed pineapple (1 small can for each four guests) Butter and salt Page 30 Work for menu No. 1 begins with sweet potatoes. Bake in a hot oven enough potatoes for each guest and one or two extras. Let the potatoes cool enough to handle, then split them down the center and empty the insides into a large bowl, leaving the skins intact. Add the crushed pineapple, juice and all, then season with salt and butter. Go easy on the salt and be generous with the butter, which may be part margarine, and beat well. Now return the pineapple mixture to the shells, topping each potato with a little butter. Return to the oven and brown slightly. Serve immediately. While the potatoes are baking, open your can or cans of consomme, bring to a boil, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Serve each cup with a scattering of finely chopped parsley and a thin slice of lemon. While the consomme is heating, fry your ham gently, timing its finish with the browning of the potatoes. While the potatoes are browning, cook your frozen peas. Cook them in a very little water until they are barely tender. For that extra flavor add a few sprigs of parsley and a sprig of fresh mint or fresh thyme and season with cream. If you don't keep French dressing on hand, mix it right after your potatoes are popped into the oven. Spare a minute somewhere to place your salad greens into a garlic-rubbed bowl, and cover them with a damp cloth and place them in the refrigerator. Don't bring them to the table until the last minute. Heat your dinner rolls and there you are. For dessert have fresh or canned fruit, chilled. BEAN, TOMATO, AND SAUSAGE CASSEROLE 1 can of red kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans 1 can of solid pack tomatoes " medium-sized onion sliced and sauteed in butter " green pepper sliced and sauteed with onion in butter QUICK AND EASY DINNERS 1 can of Vienna sausage (small) or 1 can of pork sausage Seasonings: salt, pepper, % tsp. Wor- _ cestershire sauce, paprika, dash of Tabasco sauce Coarse bread crumbs and butter (serves 4-6) Sautee the sliced onions and green pepper in butter until a delicate brown, then add the canned kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans, the can of solid pack tomatoes, the sliced sausages, and the seasonings. Bring to a boil and place in a casserole. Top with bread crumbs and dot with butter. Bake in a 375° oven from one half to three quarters of an hour. CABBAGE CHOP SUEY 1 'tbs. Bacon fat 4 cups shredded cabbage 1% cups thinly sliced celery. 1 green pepper (bell) sliced thin 1 medium-sized onion sliced thin This is a four-star vegetable dish, crammed with vitamins. Start shredding your cabbage the second the casserole dish is in the oven. When the vegetables are prepared, melt the tablespoon of bacon fat in a heavy aluminum dish. Add the vegetables and seasonings and cover tightly. Steam from eight to twelve minutes. Twice during the cooking, you may stir the vegetables lightly. The vegetables should be firm, barely cooked through. And serve at once. The recipe gives enough for six. 31 PINEAPPLE CREAM 2 cups milk 2/3 cups sugar. 2 tbs. Cornstarch 2 eggs separated % tsp. Salt 1 small can of pineapple from which juice has been drained This dish can be prepared beforehand, but if necessary, it can be made after the beans are in the oven and before the cabbage dish is started. Heat the milk in a double boiler. Mix the dry ingredients and add gradually to the milk, stirring constantly while the milk thickens. Cook twelve minutes, then add the beaten egg yolks to which a little of the milk mixture has been added. Stir and cook for three more minutes. Remove from heat and add. Pineapple and whites of eggs beaten stiff. Cool and serve with pineapple sauce, PINEAPPLE SAUCE / Juice from crushed pineapple and enough water to make a cup 1 tbs. Lemon juice 1 tbs. Flour 1/3 cup sugar 1 tbs. Butter Heat the liquid. Mix the flour and sugar and add to the hot liquid. Cook until clear. Add lemon juice and butter -and cool. Serve this dinner with a basket of French bread and garlic seasoned butter, hot from the oven. Hot chocolate may be served with it also. > A SNOWFALL Julene J. Cushing Let me keep the white peace of this day, When glistening snow banks the garden wall, And lines the lilac trees, each mounded spray Majestic as a frozen waterfall. Let me hold cool shadows from the space Where honeysuckle points a silver wand, And crusted patterns fringed in icy lace, Now frame an etching on the lily pond. THE DRESS rupted us so many times I feel justified." Janie did not raise her eyes. "Ts it,' Miss Ardman went on with controlled patience, "because you have work to do, or is it just because it is too hard to get up in time?" I wonder if she has ever waked up with the light just strong enough to show the stained wallpaper and felt like there was a cold hand in her stomach, Janie thought resentfully. She hasn't wondered what was going to happen after high school. She hasn't stared at the torn place in the paper and known there was nothing ahead. ISS Ardman had a way of lifting up her face as if she knew exactly what she was going to say. She knew where she was going and how. When the silence grew too awkward, Janie said, without lifting her eyes, "It's because I hate to get up." Miss Ardman sighed, a gentle sigh. Then her face lighted as if she had a sudden idea. "That," she said, "is a fault common to us all. Have you ever heard of Marcus Aurelius, Janie?" Janie shook her head and some members of the class snickered. "Marcus Aurelius lived way back in the second century," Miss Ardman said, placing her hands in front of her and looking directly at Janie. "He was both a ruler and a philosopher. He was also a warrior and quite prominent in his day. Yet he had the same trouble you have. He hated to get up in the morning. Would you like to hear how he overcame his difficulty?" 33 The class was very still. Janie could hear their breathing while they looked at her. "I guess so," she said diffidently, returning their gaze. Opening a little brown book on her desk, Miss Ardman read: In the morning, when thou nisest unwillingly, let this thought be present— I am nising to the work of a human being. Why then am I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for which I was brought into this world? Or have I been made for this, to lie in the bedclothes and keep myself warm? She closed the little book and took off her glasses. It was very quiet in the room. "Perhaps," she said, smiling into Janie's sullen hazel eyes, "if you regard this class as part of your work in the world, you could have a little more enthusiasm for it. Do you think you could?" Maybe this was the end of the scolding. "Sure, I'll try," Janie answered affably. She waited for the teacher to resume reading. Before she picked up her glasses, Miss Ardman looked out of the window. Then she pulled her top drawer open and took out a notebook. "I have permission from Mr. Symes to take up some class matters. Since we do not seem to be in the mood for poetry, we will discuss your problems." There was a pleasant stir in the class. "I sure got us out of some old poetry," Janie thought, pleased with herself. "Tt is about the senior class play," Miss Ardman was saying. Janie's elation passed. She knew about the old play, had even gone to a reading of it. Janie had not even bothered to write her part 34 preference. A fat chance she had of getting a part! "Last night I cast the play," Miss Ardman pronounced. "I took into consideration your choices; for the most part they coincided with my judgment. Here is the list. If for any reason any one of you is not satisfied, see me _ privately after class." She opened the notebook and began to read. Janie doodled with her pencil, interested in a detached way. The parts were just about as she would have cast them. John Rons had the lead, naturally. John was studentbody president, star of football and track, and he was going to be a lawyer. Life had made Janie into a realist. She did not often waste time thinking of John Rons, but if chance had given her a fur coat, a convertible car, a diamond ring, her home painted inside and out, a tip to Florida, and a year's supply of frozen foods, along with a complete wardrobe, she would have traded everything straight over for a date with John Rons. The girls' parts, except for the lead and the maid and the cook, were about equal. Doreen and Janice, the two most popular girls in school, were right for the college girls. Now all the parts, except that of Marjorie, John's girl friend in the play, were read. When Miss Ardman came to the last name, there was an expectant hush. Janie told herself that she didn't care who got it. "Marjorie," Miss Ardman read, "Janie Carlson." Then she closed the notebook. TANIE'S mouth flew open as if some one had pressed a button. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 She couldn't believe what she had heard. It must be true for all the class members were staring at her. And John Rons wasn't controlling his displeasure. Miss Ardman ignored the stares. "IT wish every one of you could have a part in the play," she told them, opening the notebook again. "And there is a place for everyone in the production of the play." She went on to read the names of those who would assume the work of production. Everyone in the class of twenty-five had a job. Rehearsal, she said, would be in the afternoon, beginning today. The play would be ready in a little over a month's time. When the electric bell rang the seniors filed out, talking excitedly. No one came to congratulate Janie except Amy Huff, the homeliest girl in the class and an excellent student. "I know you can do it, Janie," she said in her kind, low voice. "Gee, I don't see why she picked on me," said Janie scornfully as she gathered up her books and papers, "T've never been in a play before." "Don't you want to be in a play?" Janie almost jumped. Miss Ardman was standing in the aisle opposite her. "Why yes," she admitted, twisting her handkerchief and chewing the forbidden gum in her embarrassment, "only some of the others would be better, I guess." "T think you'll do very well." Then the teacher placed her slender long fingers on the sleeve of Janie's rusty brown coat and said in a lowered voice, "I want you to do the part well, and you can—if you are willing to work. After rehearsal, } elp you with your her books and started to set the voice and Posture? There até afew table. Tricks that wil] help a lot." "You couldn' "Why, £0sh, Miss Ardma an, could you?" bet [I] anie put down her her mother asked hopefully, Ooks and in her enthusiasm Pressed ¢ only "vening dress [ ve seen er hands together untj] the knuckher Wear ls a black one. We ve all €s showed white 'TI work al] Got to be dressed in Sptingtime night if it will do any good," dresses, brigh and fluffy, like th Just ag little hard work before Play itself, She did want to tell edtime wil] Be sufficient," Miss er mother that she would like this Ardman answered pumly, Whe be ard i] anie felt herself blushing again ino?" He ae ie other eins, Wear 'Tl make It to class early, J Prom- 6 Is€." She 1 "Janice has 4 New green chiffon and Amy, her J; ead Soaring, her limbs light and = e. Pink, "S pa? And warm. It was true, Atdman said mine could be White." Janie Cut the Téad in thick slices as she spoke, school a w eK or go later, it "Why, at's fine," Mrs. Carlson 'vas almost dark, 'ler mother "ee said, her tired face beaming. 'TI In the lean-to kitchen, Cooking Supmake one that will do fo; gradua Per, her brothers and sisters Playing tion, too." In the front yatd. "Yo, failed Mrs ae atsh again" ning dress, Jt can be Cut low and have gq full, swish skirt 'T told Mrs, Marsh ] Couldn't It has to be a take care of her childre Was r | yTs. Carlson stooped to o €n the about." Janie's voice even door, "Yo, II just have to Was toneless as she threw her books make one dress do for both." on the table and washed her hands anie was silent. She knew Ma at the kitchen sink, She ad re Would get her the dress if she could Catsed for ty, hours and spent anShe picked UP her American histo other hour w th Miss Ardman The book and balanced jt on her head itchen seemed shabbier, more Ik OPpeless turn, "why did you id, stuf. Ear Ver, watched slight Ng some woo Into the stove anger rise in her mother's face and "T can't rehearse al] afternoon and subside. Tend kids, too," Janie Started to Say, ul she che 36 you. I liked him for some of the things you like in Don." Janie was shocked into sudden understanding. "You mean that he was like Don, good fun at a dance or at a party?" "He was, but he was more, too. He was a good boy." Janice could feel her mother's eyes on her. "He was always a good worker," Mrs. Carlson emphasized. "And he didn't have the bad habits Don has. I can tell you now," she ended, looking searchingly at Janie, "I've had a lot more out of life than you') ever get if you marry Don Betger." "Oh, I'm not going to marry Don," Janie retorted lightly as she resumed her posture walking. But she felt cold inside. When she contemplated marriage, it was to have far more than she saw at home. And I'm going to have more, she promised herself harshly. She heard the rattle of her father's car outside and put down the book. No matter what, she decided, Ill have the right dress for the play. 'THE rehearsal period was nearly over; still Janie had not mentioned the dress again to her mother. One late afternoon she lagged behind the others, waiting for Miss Ardman, humiliation and _resentment within her for what had just happened. It began in the love scene with John Rons. Miss Ardman told him to kiss Marjorie now and hereafter in rehearsal. "Oh, gee, Miss Ardman, do I have to do it every time?" John had pleaded, distaste in his voice. "If youll let me off in rehearsals, I'll do it big the night of the play. I promise I will." The others had laughed cruelly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 and John had retreated, leaving Janie alone on the stage in her humiliation. It took self-control to keep Janie in the auditorium. Only the thought of more laughter when ~ she walked out had held her. "There's no need for further private instructions, as I've told you before, Janie," Miss Ardman said, a slight note of exasperation in her voice. "You've shown marvelous improvement. 'The twang is all but gone. Just keep up the work at home," she ended kindly. Janie knew the teacher was tired, dead tired. She wished there was no need to bother her. "I'll keep trying, right up to the last," she promised meekly. "But can I— may I walk home with you?" She knew her face was red. "Of course," Miss Ardman_ treplied. "Just hold these while I gather my papers to be graded." She placed her books in Janie's hands. Outside it was early twilight. The trees with their swollen buds were sweet with the promise of spring. The mountains towered dark and quiet beyond the town. Janie and the teacher walked in _ silence, breathing the soft air. "All you need,' Miss Ardman said suddenly, "is to have a little more confidence, a little more spontaneity." Janie's smile was forced. "All I need is to change everything, I guess." "You're feeling sorry for yourself!" Miss Ardman said it sharply. "You saw John this afternoon." Janie's voice was bitter and it came from deep inside her. "John Rons is a conceited young THE DRESS?? Man." Miss Ardman spoke too quickly. "Don't worry about it." "O