. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 47 Photograph submitted by Orlinda N. Ware EMERY STAKE (UTAH), CLEVELAND WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Left to right: Rosanna R. Anderson; Ida Mortensen; Kate Erickson; Charlotte Larsen; Grace E. Stokes; Helga Stokes; Alice Larsen. Rosanna R. Anderson is the present president of Cleveland Ward Relief Society and Orlinda N. Ware is stake president. Photograph submitted by Victoria Lyon WEST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), BINGHAM WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLED FOR FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF ITS ORGANIZATION April 27, 1948 Second row, standing, left to right: MaRee Nelson, sewing instructor; Hannah Sanderson, assistant secretary; Nora Austin, organist; Maurine Nichols, nursery class leader; Edna Thomas, chorister; Evelyn Rawlings, theology class leader; Rela Beck-. Stead, stake counselor; Stake President Dora B. Callicott; Ward President Victoria R. Lyon; First Counselor Elfie Reid; Second Counselor Crysta Woodland; Lovantha GarTett, visiting teachers' class leader; Florence Jenkins, assistant to work director; Blanche Reid, literature class leader; Mary Raby, social science leader; Ruth Jacques; Willadeen Householder. Seated in the front row are other officers and teachers, including several former presidents and counselors, 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Alice Carlin GRIDLEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) GRIDLEY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS MAKE 100% RECORD (October 1947-September 1948) Front row, left to right: Pearl Tolly; May Farnsworth; Pansy Gardner; Florence Keith; Ethel Smith; Yvonne Cameron; Barbara Price; Myrtle Clyde; Fayette Sorenson; Edna Richins; Second Counselor Helen Jo Stoddard; President Alice Carlin; First Counselor Eulalia Jensen. Second row, left to right: Bessie Sonnor; Agnes Shirley; Lillis Jones; Gertrude Scott; Reba Quist; Maud Rice; Nellie Richins; Dora Davenport; Ludeen Waters. Third row, left to right: Selma Walton, Rowena Rice; Hannah Gottiker; Modean Marler; Rachel Bate; Fay Sorenson; Mamie Little; Jane Scott. Fourth row, left to nght: Elda Kelley; Grace Thorpe; Dorothy Fife; Katy Cameron; Martha Stewart. Alice I. Ferrin is president of Gridley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Maud E. Groscost TOOELE STAKE (UTAH) TOOELE FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 15, 1948 Front row, left to right: Nellie Gordon (1934-36); Mary Eckman (1936-39); Leona Boyce (1939); Florence Johnson (1939-1940); Lucille Orme (1940-41 and 1943-45); Jennie Wallin (1941-43). Back row, left to right: Sadie Smith (1923-34); Addie Vowles (1919-23); Effie Lindberg, representing her mother, Susanna Dunn (1912-1916); Alice McLaws, repre- 'senting her mother, Sarah Marsden (1916-19); Margaret Wright, present president; Hazel Smith (1945-47). Each of the ten presidents and the two women representing the deceased presidents, were presented with corsages and each responded with a toast. Emma R. Hanks is president of Tooele Stake Relief Society. The Conductor and the Accompanist Florence Jeppetson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board HE conductor is primarily a teacher. To be a successful teacher one must be progressive and to be progressive one must constantly study. 'This study should be directed toward the acquisition of added knowledge pertaining to the leadership intended. Such knowledge may be gained from various sources. To be properly and fully effective these sources must be reliable. They may be in the form of music teachers, lecturers, books, records, radios, etc. One of the very best means of gaining musical knowledge is through the study of the piano and the organ. Even in remote places a school music teacher or supervisor may be found who can be induced to teach the fundamentals of music either privately or to a group. The library in any sizable community should have on its shelves a few good music textbooks for study. If such books are not immediately available they can often be secured through a request to the librarian. A music magazine such as The Etude is most helpful. It contains very valuable information in the various branches of musical education. Some of the necessary qualities a conductor should possess are: musicianship, dynamic and inspiring personality, congeniality, patience, humor, quick discernment, self-control, tactfulness, apprecia- 5. To assist tion, and administrative ability. Impartiality, The position of the accompanist - is of parallel importance with that of the conductor. In order to successfully fulfill the requirements of this position the accompanist should have adequate musical training, with special emphasis on piano or organ or both. This training should include ample technique and _ sufficient skill to read and play at sight compositions of, at least, moderate difficulty. Like the conductor, the accompanist should continually study and practice toward greater efficiency in musical performance. This broader training should also include a knowledge of conducting and singing. The major responsibilities and qualifications of the accompanist may be summed up as follows: 1. To assist the conductor in the performance of her duties and even function as a-conductor when needed. 2. To furnish the necessary accompaniment. 3. To help establish and maintain the appropriate rhythmical background of a composition. 4. To play accurately and support adequately the various vocal parts as needed in a rehearsal. In effecting the correct tempos, attacks, dynamics, releases, and to help in bringing about suitable word, chord, and phrase nuances. 6. Finally in order to be of maximum service in the interpretation of a song, Page 49 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 the accompanist should be thoroughly — therefore, if given opportunity, make vital familiar with the text of the composicontributions to the success of the organtion. Ization. Thus it is seen that the responsibilities It should be remembered that often and qualifications of the conductor and the accompanist has had more musical the accompanist are extensive and very training than the conductor and can, closely interwoven. [Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting.] All in a Day's Pleasure Helen Martin I always throw the crumbs from the table in front of my kitchen window. When I am washing my dishes the birds keep me company. They do love my crumbs and I love their chatter. I always have flocks of my feathered friends waiting in the lilac bushes for my morning offering. Cookies! Don't you love them, but don't you hate to roll them out? I don't roll cookies any more. I just drop them by teaspoonfuls onto the baking sheet. Then I put a clean cloth over a glass tumbler, wet the cloth (not too wet) and gently press down the dough. It makes lovely round cookies. If I keep the cloth just wet enough it never sticks., ' My youngest son never hangs anything up! So when I find his school pants gone from his favorite chair, or his shirt hung up, I investigate. There it is—a tear in the knee of his best school pants! When I ask him about it, it is always the other fellow who pushed him down. He is the fellow, though, who has to pay for the damage by doing an extra job around the house every night and morning for two weeks. This same youngster can never keep his shirt tail in nor his hair combed. There never was a "doings" of any kind that I didn't have to go up the last minute and straighten him up. THE VIGIL Elsie Chamberlain Carrol] The walls are looped with cobwebs; Each window shade's awry; The fire-grate is broken; The shrubs outside are dry. A smell of musty dankness Pervades the lonesome air, But I feel a something precious That still is lingering there. This was a home—a sanctum— Where a spirit came to be, Composed of part of each of us Who were a family. And so, tonight, returning, Alone, reluctantly, I find that spirit waiting And bless its permanency. NEW YEAR Christie Lund Coles Now as the old year dies Let us forget The aching bitterness, The sharp regret; The moment when it seemed The heart must break, The emptiness of loss, The lonely ache. Now as the old year dies Let us pretend The past has really come To this swift end. And let us hold the faith Till it ls true That this hour is the start Of a year New! LESSON DEPARTMENT This permitted each worshiper to have some little privacy. Peter probably wanted to delay the departure of these two great characters. Moses has always been held in the highest esteem by the Jews. But even as Peter spoke, "... Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved 'Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." It was the Eternal Father speaking. When they heard the voice from the Majesty on high, the apostles "... Fell on their face, and were sore afraid. And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid." How can we read this account and not recognize that both Father and Son exist as separate entities? In effect, the same things had been spoken at the time John baptized Jesus. Here again the voice of Elohim proclaims to other witnesses, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him" (Matt. 17: 5-7): After the two prophets had departed, Jesus told the three apostles that they were not to speak to anyone about the manifestation until after he had arisen from the dead. It was this reference to his rising from the dead that puzzled and sorely grieved them. It was difficult for them to grasp the full significance of the statement. Reluctantly, they were beginning to realize that their beloved Master was to "... Suffer many things, and be trejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, and scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again" (Mark 8:31). The peculiar wording used in describing the exalted conversa- 53 tion between the three glorified personages is somewhat hard to understand. The decease mentioned evidently referred to what the Lord would accomplish rather than the death he would suffer. "The Greek word of which 'decease' appears as the English equivalent in many of the manuscripts of the gospels, is one connoting 'exodus' or 'departure.' "' In some versions it also signifies glory. "So also the Greek original of 'accomplish,' in the account of the Transfiguration, connotes the successful filling out or completion of a specific undertaking, and not distinctively the act of dying." The "decease" that the Savior was then so soon to accomplish was the voluntary surrender of his life in fulfilment of a purpose at once exalted and foreordained, not a death by which He would passively die through conditions beyond His control. He died a willing sacrifice for sin. Even after the glorious experience of the transfiguration, it was difficult for the apostles to grasp the significance of the statement, "Jesus would rise again." The idea of the resurrection seemed vague in their minds. "And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean" (Mark 9: 10). We learn largely by comparison. Nothing had happened in the entire history of the Jewish people, and certainly not in the lives of the apostles, with which they could compate the startling doctrine of the resurrection. 'They could tell no man of their experiences on the Mount, if they followed the instructions of the Master. This kept the others of the Twelve from knowing 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 anything concerning the experience until after the death of the Lord. After the Lord had been resurtected and ascended to his Father and "... Sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high" (Heb. 1:3), Peter told the Church of the wondrous experience: For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount (II Peter 1:16-18). All of the reasons for the transfiguration may not be comprehended by the human mind. Of course, the divine purpose was known to Jesus. The splendor and glory of the manifestation were encouraging and strengthening to him. He needed strength for the ordeal ahead of him. He was now on the verge of the "valley of the shadow of death." He needed succor and strength. The Prophet Joseph said, "The Savior, Moses, and Elias gave the keys to Peter, James, and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him" (D. H. C. III, page 387). The following verse (D. & C. 63:21) is of interest in this connection "when the earth shall be transfigured, even according to the pattern which was shown unto mine apostles upon the mount; of which account the fulness ye have not yet received." Jesus had again heard the voice of his Father. He had received the supreme assurance that his Father was well pleased with him. This must have been upbuilding and have given him courage for the future. "A new dispensation had been established, that of the gospel, for which the law and the prophets had been but preparatory." As the four walked down the mountain side, after the transfiguration, the apostles asked Jesus, "... Why then say the scribes that Elias must first come?" Jesus explained to them that Elias would come first before the advent of the Lord in his glory. He added, "But I say unto you, That Elias is come already, and they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they listed. Likewise shall also the Son of man suffer of them. Then the disciples understood that he spake unto them of John the Baptist" (Matt. 17:10-13). From the reading of the scriptures it is plain that John did officiate in the spirit and power of Elias in the work he did as the forerunner of Christ. The angel Gabriel had announced this to Zacharias. (Read Luke 1:17.) However, John the Baptist and Elias and Elijah were not the same individuals. _If we remember, there is no attempt by the writers of the New Testament to distinguish between Elijah the Tishbite—the man who was taken into heaven without tasting death —and any other man named Elias, it may help to remove the difficulty of understanding the scriptures on this point. It is still more clear if we remember that the name Elias is both a personal name and a title. The name Elijah is the Hebrew form; in Greek it is written Elias, where Elijah is mentioned, so that in the Old Testament we have the one form and in the New the other. LESSON DEPARTMENT Both Elias and Elijah appeared to Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple in 1836 (See D. & C. Section 110). They each conferred separate keys and authority. It was Elijah who conferred the authority to "turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers," as Malachi predicted (Mal. 4:5-6). John the Baptist acted only as a forerunner and held the Aaronic Priesthood. Elijah held the Melchizedek Priesthood 5) and committed to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the power to fulfill the prophecy of Malachi. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Why was the transfiguration of the Savior one of the greatest heavenly mani: festations of all time? 2. Describe the events and name the characters present on the occasion. 3. Tell of the visit of Moses, Elias, and Elijah in the Kirtland Temple in 1836. VUssiting Seachers ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 7—'1 Will Not Leave You Comfortless" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, April 5, 1949 Objective: To point out that we are not left comfortless because of our sure knowledge, through Christ's teachings and the Holy Ghost, of the resurrection. QUR Savior knew the sorrows of _— life, and especially was he aware of the void and the anguish men must know when death parts them from a loved one. Prior to his crucifixion, in his last discourse with his apostles, he softened the trial of parting which faced them all, with words of comfort. "Let not your heart be troubled," he said, "ye believe in God, believe also in me" (John 14:1). Here lies the key to solace in earthly grief. Christ preached over and over of the surety of the resurrection, and by believing in him we know that he spoke the truth. How near to us he seems when he says: "In my Father's house are many mansions... I go to prepare a place for you... That where I am there ye may be also" (John 14:2-3). It is hard for even the unbeliever to accept death as final. The desire to meet his loved ones again is there, but the absolute knowledge that he will do so is lacking. 'This is because the unbeliever knows not the Comforter whom Christ promised his apostles, would be sent. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter... Whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you (John 14:16-17). To them he also said: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid (John 14:27). "I will not leave you comfortless" (John 14:18). 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Work ITleeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Use Your Odds and Ends Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, April 12, 1949 "HE small, seemingly inconsequential things can add up to a staggering total when taken all together. Minor savings effected here and there with regularity may mean a very substantial total saving for the family budget. So get the habit of never throwing anything away that can be used. After a dress is worn out, cut off snaps, zippers, buttons, etc., and save them with the possibility of using them again. The snaps can be snapped onto a card or paper so they won't get separated or lost. Have a separate button box for used buttons, because in a family there is always need for odd buttons for shirts, underclothing, and dresses. Ornamental buttons are very expensive and often the button box will yield just the thing that is needed, thereby saving extra expenditure of money. Zippers, too, can be re-used and should always be saved. Buckles and other trimming need not be thrown away just because a dress is worn out. Many elaborate and expensive effects have been achieved with the passementerie or braid from grandmother's gowns. With a little originality, clever and attractive buttons and trimmings can be fashioned from odd bits of felt, leather, old beads, etc. Some of the cleverest buttons are those made from cord or tubing of material twisted into odd shapes and patterns. Vari-colored pieces of felt, embroidered or trimmed with beads, may also serve as buttons. Odd beads and old buttons can easily be fashioned into earrings by buying the base in a notions department and fastening the bead or button to it with good household cement. Old gloves can be made into clever trimmings for dresses in the form of lapel gadgets. Cut out an awkward horse or a sly fox, stuff him, fasten to a pin, and wear on the lapel of a coat. Household linens can be carefully guarded and salvaged for further use after they have ceased to function in their original capacity. Bed sheets wear out in the center while they are still strong around the outside. Good pillow cases can be made fom these portions or they may be used for crib sheets. The better parts of old tablecloths can be hemmed or fringed and used for napkins and place mats. If they are not usable as napkins, remember that linen is very absorbent and makes ideal dish cloths. Then, after they are too far gone for anything else, they are perfect as cleaning cloths, especially for washing windows. So learn to make all of your clothing and household linens lead a double life. Get the make-over, use over habit! 58 with my garments spotless, pure, and white? Or, must I not rather obtain for myself, by my own faith and diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord, an assurance of salvation for myself? And have I not an equal privilege with the ancient saints? And will not the Lord hear my prayers, and listen to my cries as soon as he ever did theirs, if I come to him in the manner they did? Or, is he a respecter of persons? I must now close this subject for the want of time.... We would be pleased to see you in Kirtland; and more pleased to have you embrace the New Covenant. I remain, yours affectionately, Joseph Smith, Jun. (History Of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, chap. 44, pp. 232-237). Some of our pioneers cultivated the art of letter writing to a high degree of excellence. Happily, they also took pride in their penmanship, and the paper they used was generally of lasting quality. Many a letter, or a packet of them, has been the source of invaluable help to historians and to literary writers. Through these various means of preserving the past in its verities, one may more truly relive stirring scenes in the story of our Church. We have already done so in our lessons on the beginnings of the divine work. Let us carry forward now by getting closer to what may be called the Ohio-Missouri period. A time of intense activity—of stress and distress, it was, for the Latter-day Saints. First of all there was the double transplanting of the new Church— one part to Kirtland, Ohio; the other to Independence, Missouri.. This was no light task, as we are shown vividly through the story Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, has left for us. While the menfolk of the family had gone ahead overland RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 to prepare the way, she was entrusted with a major responsibility of bringing mothers and children by way of the Erie Canal, by boat over Lake Erie, to Ohio. Her fervor for the restored gospel, her undaunted spirit and courage to meet emergencies, her leadership where men failed —all vibrate through her sincere story—and impress us with those same qualities possessed by her eminent son. A reading of chapter 38 of the little volume History Of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith will serve to help make the story, and the character of Mother Smith live again. Outstanding among the newly made converts in this Ohio center was Sidney Rigdon. Through the years this man was to perform a helpful part in forwarding, under the leadership of the Prophet, the work of the Lord. Indeed so close was their relationship during the developing days of the Church, that critics began to link Rigdon's name with the creating of the Book of Mormon. John, a son of Sidney Rigdon, ran into this story when he was out West in 1863. This tale disturbed the son so much that he determined to learn from his father the truth; so he returned to his old home, and happily found both of his parents still hale and clear of mind. - "You have been charged," said the earnest son to his aged father, "with writing the Book of Mormon, and giving it to Joseph Smith to introduce to the world. You have always told me the story that you never saw the book until it was presented to you by Parley P. Pratt and Oliver Cowdery; and all you ever knew of the origin of that book was what they told you, and what Joseph Smith and the witnesses who claimed to have seen the plates told you. LESSON DEPARTMENT Is this true? If so, all right; if it is not, you owe it to me and to your family to tell it. You are an old man and you will soon pass away, and I wish to know if Joseph Smith, in your intimacy with him for fourteen years, has not said something to you that led you to believe he obtained the book in some other way than what he had told you. Give me all that you know about it, that I may know the truth." My father, after I had finished saying what I have repeated above, looked at me for a moment, raised his hand above his head, and slowly said, with tears glistening in his eyes: "My son, I can swear before high heaven that what I have told you about the origin of that book is true. Your mother and sister, Mrs. Athalia Robinson, were present when that book was handed to me in Mentor, Ohio, and all I ever knew about the ongin of that book was what Parley P. Pratt, Oliver Cowdery, Joseph Smith, and the witnesses who claimed they saw the plates have told me, and in all of my intimacy with Joseph Smith he never told me but one story, and that was that he had found it engraved upon gold plates in a hill near Palmyra, and that an angel had appeared to him and directed him where to find it; and I have never, to you or any one else, told but the one story, and that I now repeat to you." I believed him, and now believe him. He also said that Mormonism was true; that Joseph Smith was a Prophet, and that the world would find it out some day. Out of the persecutions of this period, Amanda Smith gives the principal thread of the Haun's Mill Massacre. Among other things she relates: In our utter desolation, what could we women do but pray? Prayer was our only source of comfort; our Heavenly Father our only helper. None but he could save and deliver us... Our prayers were hushed in terror. We dared not let our voices be heard in the house in supplication. I could pray in my bed or in silence, but I could not live thus long. This godless silence was more intolerable than had been that night of the massacre. I could bear it no longer. I pined to 39 hear once more my own voice in petition to my Heavenly Father. I stole down into a com field, and crawled into a "stout of com." It was as the temple of the Lord to me at that moment. I prayed aloud and most fervently. When I emerged from the corn a voice spoke to me. It was a voice as plain as I ever heard one. It was no silent, strong impression of the spirit, but a voice, repeating a verse of the saint's hymn: That soul who on Jesus hath leaned for repose, I cannot, I will not desert to its foes; That soul, though all hell should endeavor to shake, I'll never, no never, no never forsake! From that moment I had no more fear. I felt that nothing could hurt me. (The Women of Mormondom, chap. XV, pp. 129, 130). Dramatic moments connected with the testing, tragic years of the Ohio-Missouri period might be multiplied. One such stirring event is the escape from a Missouni jail, told by Parley P. Pratt in his Autobiography: Our friends who had stood waiting in the thicket, had watched the last rays of the sun as they faded away, and had observed the quiet stillness of the evening as it began to steal over the distant village where we were confined, and had listened with almost breathless anxiety for the first sound which was to set all things in commotion, and which would say to them in language not to be misunderstood, that the struggle had commenced. For some moments after the last golden beam had disappeared they listened in vain. The occasional lowing of a cow as she came home from the woodland pasture, impatient for her calf and the milkmaid to ease her of her rich burthen; the mingled sound of human voices in the distance in common conversation, the merry laugh of the young beaux and their sweethearts, the quiet song of the whippoorwill, mingled with the merry notes of the violin, the thrill of the bugle, or the soft and plaintive notes of the flute, stole upon the si- 60 lence of the evening, and were occasionally interrupted by the clatter of hoofs, as a few of the citizens were retiring from the enjoyments of a public day to their own peaceful homes in the country. These, and the beatings of their anxious and almost bursting hearts, were the only sounds which fell upon their ear, till suddenly they heard a rumbling and confused noise, as of footsteps rushing down the stairs of a prison, then a shrill cry of alarm from Mrs. Diffidence, the giantess, and soon followed by the shouts and rush of men, dogs, horses and prisoners towards the spot where they were located. They then sprang forward to the edge of the fields and ran back again to the horses, and again returned, as if the using of their own limbs would serve to add nimbleness to those of the prisoners, and to quicken their speed. (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt—Escape from a Missouri Jail—chap. XXXII, pp. 276-277). The Prophet was in jail with Parley P. Pratt. The memory of that experience prompted him to write this lovely expression: Those who have not been enclosed within the walls of prison without cause or provocation, can have but little idea how sweet the voice of a friend is! One token of friendship from any source whatever, awakens and calls into action every sympathetic feeling; it brings up im an instant everything that is past; it seizes the present with the avidity of lightning; it grasps after the future with the fierceness of a tiger; it moves the mind backward and forward, from one thing to another, until finally all enmity, malice, hatred, and past differences, misunderstandings and mismanagements, are slain victorious at the feet of hope (Rich, Ben E., Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, II, page 28). Any of the following incidents of this period may be read with profit: Brigham Young's First Meeting with the Prophet—and his after bold stand for this great leader before disloyal ones plotting to depose Joseph Smith (See Brigham Young, the Man and His Work, Preston Nibley, pp. 10-11, 18-19). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Dedication of the Kirtland Temple— Heavenly manifestations—Singing of the "Hosanna Hymn'