e served as a member of the City Council of Salt Lake. It was largely due to his efforts that Salt Lake City acquired both Liberty and Pioneer Parks, which survive as lasting memorials to his foresight. Because of his strong testimony, sound judgment, and devotion to the cause of the Lord, President 'Taylor called him to be his second Counselor in 1880 and soon after, because of persecution, President Smith chose to retire from public life with other members of the Presidency. President Taylor sent him to Hawaii where he remained for some time. It was while there that he learned of and procured for publication the manuscript of Solomon Spaulding which had for more than a half century been proclaimed by enemies of the Church as the original of the Book of Mormon. The subsequent publication and its later deposition in Oberlin College Library, exploded the myth of the Spaulding origin of the Book of Mormon. Returning to Utah, he was with President Taylor when he died. President Woodruff, hoping that something could be done to influence the federal government in its treatment of the Church, sent President Smith to Washington, D. C. LESSON DEPARTMENT He spent much of 1888 and 188g in the East, regulating Church financial and immigration affairs as well] as interceding on behalf of the Church with government officials, He was unusually successful in these activities, which contributed to the ultimate amicable settlement of the difficulties with the government. The life of Joseph F. Smith will be further treated in the lesson dealing with his presidency. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. How do you account for the fact that Wilford Woodruff was so sensitive to the Promptings of the Spirit? 2. Review the section in Vol. VI, pp. 354-355 of Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, entitled "The Place of President Woodruff's Journals in the Church." References Cow ey, Mattutas F -- Wilford Woodtuft (biography), Cow. Ey, Martruts F., Prophets and Pattiarchs, pp. 69-85. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 200-241; 346- ei: ae. Joserpu Fiexpinc, Essentials in Church History, Pp. 603-613. SMITH, JosEPH Fiepinc, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 252-301. Wooprvrr, Witrorp, Leaves From My Journal. ~~ COLOR GUARD Gladys I. Hamilton The whitest things are mountain peaks, All ermine-dressed in snow; The reddest things are berry balls Where the valley haw trees grow. Then up above, the bluest thing Is clearness of blue sky; A color guard reminding me That hope must never die! 71 9° 90 SE Soe SC Soe Professional ae Kowal Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah P9900 0 0 SoH 0¢ DO HEARTS GROW > Josephine J. Harvey They told me when I was small That growing pains were part Of growing tall. I wonder how they would explain This love I feel inside Like a still, deep pain? Could it be this is part Of the growth Of my heart? -—< LYRIC OF BEING Ruth Harwood Each day I try to write The poem of my being A little clearer And a little higher. Each day I ask for light, To consecrate my seeing A little nearer To the holy fire! From Near and Sar I wish to thank you for the splendid work you are doing for me and mine in providing us with such rich spiritual food. The prices of everything being so high, The Relief Society Magazine is the only monthly magazine that comes into our home, but we feel well nourished with its contents. My sincere gratitude goes to Margery S. Stewart for her story '"Seasoning" (November 1948). I am Maury's type of girlhood, gratitude and sincere appreciation for others' kindness to me, even to the awkward ways of expressing it, and, like Elder Fenton, I feel the softening influence of the encouragement of Clara Wells to keep the light which God has kindled and don't let the world rob you of it. The Relief Society Magazine is the only periodical I know of that sustains, strengthens, and upholds the ideals, standards, and morals which the best people in every race love to follow. 'There is a kindred feeling in its messages and stories that very much resemble the atmosphere and environment of our heavyenly home and parents. —Mrs. Rhoda W. Thurston, Hyde Park, Utah The lesson helps are invaluable, enabling the teacher and others to present the material in the best possible way. The visiting teachers' lessons are a distinct aid in this important work. I do appreciate their contents. The Relief Society Magazine was my first contact with the Church and helped to teach me the gospel of Jesus Christ. Thank you again and again. May God bless you abundantly and guide you daily in your work, and help you to guide others to him. —Genevieve G. Scott, Baltimore, Maryland You are doing a wonderful work