One of Ours
(MINERVA KOHLHEPP TEICHERT) By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
SUCCESS, someone has said, is not so much a matter of inherent talent as it is the capacity for concentration and perseverance. Judged by any standard Minerva Kohlhepp Teichert is a success but her life illustrates what persistence can do. Undoubtedly her talent for drawing was inherited. Perhaps there was born with her, too, a talent for perseverance but both qualities were added upon by a rare type of directed effort. There came a time when she tasted the joy of recognition by critics and teachers but not until she had paid the price.
Out of Boston came an educated talented Jew, convert to a new faith. In the West he married a girl who had been bred in that faith. Both had literary and artistic ability. Minerva, their second child, was given all that complete understanding and encouragement could give, but there was no money for painting lessons. Isolated on a farm, miles and miles from a teacher, no money to take her where there were teachers, mere living was a struggle. One less valiant would have wept and succumbed to their lack of opportunity. Not Minerva. "Knock and it shall be opened unto you" had literal meaning for her. She knocked and knocked until doors of opportunity began opening as doors will to those who persist. At thirteen, the age when most girls are just leaving the doll period, she was already making her own living and paying for painting lessons.
MINERVA KOHLHEPP was born in Ogden but in her first months her parents moved to Idaho. There is little about dry-farming and ranching that she does not know. There is little of it she has not put on canvas. In a little store in American Falls she first exhibited. While still a child she dressed a group of dolls in native costumes of every country. They drew a great deal of praise but seemingly took her no nearer an art teacher.
In Pocatello she worked for her board and attended high school. There she met a woman with splendid artistic ability who helped her to other contacts. A Mrs. Sparks who was going to San Francisco needed a girl for nursemaid. Minerva had been preparing herself for just such an opportunity. In San Francisco she found time for work at Mark Hopkins' Art School. After graduating from high school she taught in rural Idaho just long enough to insure a year of study in the East. In February, 1908, she enrolled as a student in the Art Institute in Chicago?and what a student! Once there, nothing less than finishing would satisfy. She worked and schemed and borrowed money in order to stay. By July she had completed the first year's work. In 1912 she completed a three years' academic course beside studying Dramatic Art and Indian Dancing at the Chicago Conservatory of Music.
THE year 1913 found her back in Idaho teaching school, paying debts, writing poetry and finding time to file and live on a homestead near American Falls. It was at this time also that her determination to be a great painter suffered a slight retard. Herman Teichert, who pursued her as persistently as she pursued art, came near winning his case. But before she had quite decided, an offer came to teach art at the University of Utah. Her ambition flared anew and she went to New York for final preparation. At these years her reputation had been growing and hardly had she reached New York when she was offered a scholarship under Robert Henri. Henri had come back to the Art Students League for the year of 1914-15. This big chance swept away all immediate thoughts of homestead, sweetheart, and teaching offer. She was the first to enroll under the master portrait painter and became not only a favorite pupil but a warm personal friend. Some think her portraits show a strong Henri influence. She received other scholarships as well, one under George Bridgeman for draftsmanship.
THE next three years brought Miss Kohlhepp another rare privilege. The war was on. The wealth and culture of the world settled in New York. The Art Students League, fearing complications, would accept no gifts of money, but wealthy patrons of art could and did aid the struggling pupils. This aid came in the form of tickets to things of worth. Minerva Kohlhepp being an advanced student shared generously. Many of her evenings were spent listening to opera, studying theatrical lighting effects, enjoying Russian ballet, etc. During this time her financial problems were still with her but with the determination so characteristic of her she found things to do about it. She had a natural bent for making the most of a dollar and a propensity for finding work along the line she liked. She sketched cadavers for doctors. She painted animals for a series of school books. One afternoon she did a portrait of Wallace Beery dressed in skins for the show Purple Knight. She received fifty dollars for that. She did much work for the movies. Of her the great Henri said, "She is one of the coming woman artists of America."
THE summer of 1917, when war clouds hung so threateningly, Miss Kohlhepp woke to the realization there were other fields of interest far from halls of learning. For the first time in her life painting took second place in her heart. She hurried home to marry her cowboy sweetheart, Herman Teichert. While he served in France she lived on his paternal homestead that in the days of stock companies had been known as Tall Tree Center. Mrs. Teichert loved this old ranch and some of her finest work was done there. She loved the Snake River "bottoms" where the ranch was located. She told of it in verse and story as well as on canvas. It is her delineation of life on the "bottoms" that makes her so essentially an Idaho artist. There was everything in that section to stimulate the artistic urge. From Horse Island to Big Hole, from Ferry Butte to the cataracts at American Falls she gathered her studies. And such a variety! Here were tradition, scenery, and local color. Here she found marsh grass, brown-topped tules, gray-green sage, blue pools and foaming rapids, stretches of meadowland and warm-scented cowpaths, giant gnarled cottonwood, tangy willows and flaming kinnikinick. Here, too, were picturesque cowboys, gaudily attired bucks, squaws in bright blankets and papooses in boards. She studied bucking broncos, dances to the Sun God and the ruins of old Fort Hall.
TRUE to her inheritance, when she married, home and family came first with Mrs. Teichert. She was an artist, trained and capable. But she made sure of her future in a more sure way. She not only converted her husband but did it so well he became a member of the Bishopric in their ward. Her five children are being brought up in the faith. She washes dishes, sweeps floors and makes the beds. She cooks for haymen and is waiting when the children get home from school.
HAS that crowded out her painting? Far from it. Like all who have something to say she finds time to say it. Through her family she knows life and knowing life she does better work. Recently she has turned to Latter-day Saint subjects. During 1935 she sold two paintings to Brigham Young University and two to Montpelier, Idaho, Stake House. Other sales have been made, including murals, to Rock Springs' library. But painting and selling is a continuous performance, for her hands and brain are never idle.
When the Dam at American Falls was completed and the backing up of the water of the Snake River began its work of destruction, Mrs. Teichert clung to her beloved ranch until literally forced away. She watched the creeping waters and wept that so much beauty should be buried forever from sight. She rejoiced, too, for added to a lifetime of memories she carried away with her hundreds of sketches and paintings, preserving for the world that which she loved so well.
Mrs. Teichert's late work includes two groups. One group is on exhibit at the Z. C. M. I. at the present time. One of these "Called to The Powwow," shows her inimitable skill in handling animals in action, something she learned during her long years on the Fort Hall "bottoms." The second group hangs in the Stake House at Montpelier, Idaho. These were painted especially to cover spaces above the organ and are nine feet high. She studied two years to figure out the best way to fill those spaces. The Hotel Utah has a number of her good paintings as does the Brigham Young University, and most prominent schools and churches in the intermountain country. Her exhibiting is done by Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne.
We rejoice in the good things that have come to her. We honor her name for its worth but in the ultimate it is her capacity for growth, her keen sense of values, her faith in the worth-while-ness of life that so definitely places her as "One of Ours."