Woman's Part
By Vernessa Miller Nagle
FROM the slave of man to man's equal socially, politically, and intellectually, represents many years of growth on the part of woman. Time was when women, theoretically, were perpetual minors, subjected to the control of fathers, husbands, or guardians. Through the years woman has made strides in feminine progress.
From Eden to Christ represents chronologically a long period of human growth. Out of this dim past emerges annals of the achievements of such characters as Rebekah, mother of Jacob; Miriam, the prophetess; Rachel, the beloved; Helen of Troy; Ruth, the gleaner; Abigail, the beautiful peacemaker; Dido, founder of Carthage; Sappho, greatest Greek poetess; and numerous other personalities.
During the Medieval Ages woman began gradually to outgrow her traditional bondage. We recall the name of Philippa, founder of Queen's College, England; Beatrice, inspiration of Dante; Laura, immortalized by Petrarch; Joan of Arc; and Anne of Bretagne, patroness of learning.
Among those who achieved renown and accomplished deeds during the nineteenth century are Lucretia Mott, Mary Lyon, Frances E. Willard, Clara Barton, Florence Nightingale, and others far too numerous to mention.
Of the achievements of woman during the twentieth century we are more or less familiar. Woman has taken her place beside man in the professions, industries, politics, art, and science. At the time the Nineteenth Amendment became a part of our law there was ended a struggle of almost a century's duration. At this time suffrage had gained acceptance in many countries of the world. As civilization has progressed through the ages, mankind has learned that the most desirable society is the result of men and women working side by side, shouldering alike the responsibilities of our nation's betterment and growth.
AND now, after a struggle that has extended over a period of many hundred years, has woman become more or less passive? Has she become self-satisfied with the assurance that her laurels have been won, and that there are no new fields of endeavor? Is it possible that we are resting on our oars?
It is not so much the need of new fields of conquest that should concern women as the giving of her talent to the problems that encompass our everyday life. Never in the history of our nation has there been greater need for women to strive for the solidarity of our people. We must set up the kind of homes that will build for the security of tomorrow's society. Let us rediscover the loyalty of our pioneer mothers. Let us exercise the foresight of enlightened women of today.
Among the nations of the world there are constant threats of war. The rattling of sabres is heard in the distance. Have we American women sufficiently united our efforts and thoughts on peace? Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt when asked recently her opinion regarding world peace had this to say: "If the women of the world could catch the spirit of internationalism and unite in an active world peace movement, there would be no staying their hands. But without decision and unity women are simply submerged in mass opinion and war continues to threaten the world."
Women have been accused as being hysterical in their reactions to threats of approaching wars. The woman heart anticipates the horrors of war, for it is she who has borne the sons of battle. Only the united effort of the mothers of the world will prevent the chaos we abhor?beleaguered cities, garrisoned fortifications, human suffering, and war's hideous aftermath.
The crime situation in our country, we are told, is deplorable. England has made remarkable progress in the eradication of crime. There is much to be done in America?in your town, in my town. The doctrine of Elizabeth Fry, though first scoffed at, has now become the theory of the world, and its successful operation has become an incentive to the enthusiastic social worker. Woman's aim has always been to use preventative and remedial measures rather than punitive measures in dealing with crime. With neither clamor for applause nor desire for recompense women must continue their work along this line.
We complain of the liquor situation in the United States, but too many of us have reasoned that the liquor problems were government problems and therefore outside the realm of woman's activity. "Build ye your cities for your little ones." No condition should be permitted which is detrimental to the youth of our land. Far too many of us are contented knowing that our homes are happy and that we are warm and well fed. Should one be content in a world that is crying for help?in a time that is taxing the world's thinkers?
THE epilogue to the drama of woman's influence in moulding the destinies of the world has its setting in the far distant future but the enactment of the scene of today's achievement is in progress now. Just how well will woman play her part in this drama of life? Woman, unbigoted and unafraid, must continue to work.