(The End)
Rather Than Great Riches
By Kate Wilde
IN all walks of life since the beginning of time, men have acknowledged the desirability of a good name. If you have read Shakespeare's tragedy "Othello," you will recall that Iago pretended friendship in order to destroy a reputation. That he realized the enormity of his action is shown in his words to Othello:
"Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls: Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing; 'T was mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed."
Shakespeare, however, was not the first to express this truism. Some 2500 years before his time, Solomon is credited with these words: "A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold." (Proverbs 22:1.)
Not only in the fields of literature and religion, but men in industry and business have recognized the necessity of a good reputation. Andrew Carnegie, the American manufacturer, who in one year alone gave over one hundred thirty million dollars to philanthropy, once said: "I would prefer to lose my wealth rather than my good name and character which I have tried hardest to maintain."
A GOOD name comes as the result of living in accordance with high standards and ideals, and is upheld and sustained by one's character. As Latter-day Saints, our ideals are second to none. In our various organizations and gatherings we have ample opportunity to learn what these are and to gain the strength and determination to make them part of our daily lives. Because only as knowledge is transformed into action does it really help us or others.
ONE standard that will help build a good name is honesty. Many men in secular history have led exemplary lives in this respect. They were honest, not because it is the best policy, but because it is right. This should include honesty to ourselves as well as to others. We are frequently most gullible where our own arguments are concerned. Paul advises us: "Provide things honest in the sight of all men." (Rom. 12:7.)
Another standard is dependability or trustworthiness. However gifted an individual may be, his service to mankind cannot be very great unless he is where he should be, prepared to do what is expected of him, when he is needed.
THE true nobility of the earth are those who work and serve. Being industrious can do much to maintain a good name. I have been told about a man who has many fine qualifications. He has a gift for oratory, and is usually engaged in some phase of church or community activity. But when there is work to be done, if his eloquence can induce his wife or children to do it for him, he feels just as well satisfied with himself as people do after a good day's work. So in spite of his fine characteristics, because he lacks industry, he does not stand very high in the estimation of those who know him well. The biographies of the great benefactors of mankind show that they were not afraid of work. The Savior's life was preeminently a life of toil.
BEING charitable is another admirable standard. As accuracy is the mark of a trained mind, charity should be the mark of highly developed spirituality. Religion didn't need to teach man self-preservation, but it did need to teach him consideration for others. It was the Savior who taught us we should bear one another's burdens. A man's responsibility in this respect is bounded only by his understanding, his vision, and his capacity to serve.
ANOTHER standard, humility, is closely allied with other virtues such as tolerance and forgiveness. If we have a true outlook on life, we aren't apt to be conceited; the truer the vision of life, the greater the humility. David sang: "What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou visitest him?" (Psalm 8:4.) Great men are usually humble because they can readily see how insignificant they really are in the great scheme of things. If we are truly humble, we will find it difficult to be unforgiving or intolerant.
We might go on almost indefinitely naming social standards that will help build worthy character and reputation. If an individual is striving to be honest, dependable, industrious, charitable and humble, he has a good foundation for righteous living.
SHAKESPEARE suggests that others may rob us of our good name. For this reason, we should be careful that we do not, either intentionally or thoughtlessly injure the reputation of others. True, if they are innocent of wrong doing, and continue to maintain their high standards, time will re-instate them in the estimation of others, but until then they may endure much needless suffering.
No doubt each of us inherited a name that was good and honorable. But only through our own righteous efforts can we retain it, for each individual must make a name for himself? "there is but one day, one hour, one moment for action, and that is the present?not yesterday nor tomorrow but today. So let us build our lives today, using the opportunities at hand, meeting situations and people as they are?having respectful consideration for the past, and great but not unwarranted hope for the future?doing each hour the common-sense, intelligent thing, following the consistent program in pursuit of true happiness."
We should realize that success doesn't always mean position nor wealth; but the importance and desirability of a good name should always be paramount in our lives. A good reputation is its own reward. It brings to the possessor a satisfaction that nothing else can. Truly, a good name is to be chosen rather than great riches.