Discovering Our Children
By Virginia and Drew Jacobsen
SPRING IS HERE?in fact, the whole year is here with its many ways of helping us discover and get acquainted with our children. As parents we are constantly confronted with the problem of understanding our youngsters, of finding ways into their confidence. We are inclined to hunt intricate ways of doing this, while all about us are rich opportunities which too often are unused. Nature has surrounded us with perfect settings for parent and child confidences; settings which erase age differences and make confidence easy and natural.
What could be more delightful for parent and child than a brisk walk in the early hours of a spring morning? It is a perfect beginning for a joyous day. No child could leave home for school, work or play, feeling grumpy after seeing the world awaken while walking and talking with Mother or Dad. Troubles and annoyances seem so trivial after watching the sun rise in quiet majesty. Understanding and love creep into our hearts as we see the shadows of night fade into roseate hues of the new-born day. Mother and Dad seem a little more human and understanding at such a time, especially if the child is lonely and needs an understanding friend. There is no room for doubt or fear in the mind of the child who walks at dawn with his parents.
At the close of the day, a stroll in the quiet evening will erase unhappy memories or bring a perfect finish to the day. There is something in the sound of the birds nestling down for the night, the evening song of the crickets, and the rustle of the cool green leaves that draws hearts together. Most children will respond to wise parental advice and will open the windows of their souls during an evening stroll as they will at no other time. It is a natural time for confidences. The stars, the moon, and the evening magic were not intended for lovers alone; they provide a glamorous setting for parent and child confidences as well. The child forgets the span of years between and feels on a par with his parent. Such evenings become mile posts in his life, remaining with him always.
THERE is so much about present-day living that is unnerving and fatiguing, that we should use every opportunity to escape from the turmoil and find peace and quiet. Picnic and camping trips provide occasions for change and rest which the whole family needs. After a strenuous day of work and play, a picnic in the country, the woods, or the mountains brings a soul tranquility which helps us forget unpleasant things. On such outings, parents and children grow close together, drawing the whole family into sweet unity.
Dorothy Canfield Fisher, in her book The Brimming Cup, gives us a beautiful picture of parental understanding. The following incident is quoted with permission of the author and her publishers, Harcourt, Brace and Company. Little Paul, age ten years, has gone camping with old Mr. Wells, who is more than seven times Paul's age.
"'You must have done this before,' said Mr. Wells, respectfully; 'you seem to know a good deal about camping.'
'Oh, I'm a good camper, all right,' agreed Paul. 'Mother and I have gone off into the woods lots of times. When I was littler, I used to get spells when I was bad. I do still, even now once in a while.' Mr. Wells did not smile, but continued gravely eating his bread and bacon, his eyes on the little boy. 'I don't know what's the matter. I feel all snarled up inside. And then the first thing you know I've done something awful. Mother can tell when it gets started in me the least little teeny bit. How can she tell? And then she takes me off camping. She pretends it's because she's feeling snarled up herself. But it's not. She never is... We light out for the woods, Mother and I. The snarleder up I feel, the further we go. We don't fish or anything. Just leg it, till I feel better. Then we make a fire and eat.'"
What a priceless understanding of her child that mother had, and what a lasting appreciation for his mother the child developed. No discipline or trying to talk him out of those black moods could have accomplished half as much.
Most fathers need to make opportunities for spending more time with their children, particularly their sons. The fishing streams, with their allure for most men and boys of all ages, provide a companionable setting for father and son. Dad loses his stern business air and becomes a boy again; feels as son feels about life and so can understand his problems. Son finds that Dad is really quite human, after all, perhaps he could help with that problem which has been bothering him. Sitting by the stream fishing, he finds it wasn't such a hard problem, with Dad to help him see through it. Fathers who make such opportunities to get acquainted with their sons seldom lose them through misunderstanding or wrong doing.
Children, living in the constant tumult of city life with its noise and hurry, appreciate peace and quiet. A few weeks of the summer spent in the mountains, on a farm, on a motor trip, or by the sea will do surprising things for the family morale. One summer we decided to take our three children to the mountains, away from the heat of the city. We were somewhat dubious about the outcome of a vacation away from playmates, for our children seemed to constantly require someone to play with. After a week of blissful cool and quiet, little Jan cuddled up beside Mother on the porch and opened her heart. "Isn't it quiet, Mother. Everything seems to be so happy! I wish we could live here always, where it is so peaceful." Not once during the seven weeks in the canyon did the children express a desire for someone to play with. We all found each other in simple things?in the clouds, the trees, the moon and the stars, by the evening bonfire, on long hikes, picking wild flowers and learning their names.
HAVE you ever gone on a voyage in the clouds with your child? It is such fun to drift along on a great billowy cloud as it moves sedately through the deep blue expanse. But when the fleecy clouds turn to dark grey ones, and the sky begins to look angry and the lightning flashes, then you have a real opportunity to look into the soul of your child. If he is afraid, you have the chance of a lifetime to show him courage. Teach him to laugh as the flash of lightning illuminates the world. It is mother nature's holiday and she is setting off giant fireworks. How good it is to stand together, hand in hand, watching such flamboyant beauty. There is no room for fear of storms when parent and child stand out in the open watching nature at play.
And then comes the rain! What fun it is to listen as the raindrops dance on the roof or the window pane, or to walk in a gentle rain and feel its freshness on face and hands, and to smell the sweetness of the earth as it drinks in the refreshing moisture. The child who watches nature at her work and play, with understanding parents, learns to find joy and peace in the very things which bring fear and loneliness to less fortunate children.
In the winter, you may not care to ski, skate, or toboggan with your children. Such sports may be a bit too strenuous for you, but there is a way you can enter into the occasion with your youngsters. A cheerful fire and a warm supper waiting when they return home with their friends will bring you close to their hearts. Your thoughtfulness will endear you to them and they will welcome you into their fun. If your children are small, there are few things more fun than a sleighride with Dad guiding the sled down the hill. It is really fun for Father too, and will take years off his burdened shoulders, even if it does put a few aches in his legs.
A quiet winter evening spent before the glowing fire, telling stories; singing songs, toasting toes and marshmallows, provides glowing embers to light the future fires of an inspired life.
Is spring to you just a time for house cleaning? Are March winds just something to be endured? Try taking your children into the country or up on the hills to fly kites. On the way you will see the first robins, the trees and bushes bursting with buds, the early spring bulbs pushing their green noses out of the earth. You will find a new meaning to spring.
IT takes such little things to paint lasting pictures on the memories of our children; pictures which they will recall in later years; pictures which will help them over many difficulties. In years to come, it won't be the lavish gifts they will remember us for. A windy day on a hill with a kite high in the air, a swim together, a hike through autumn leaves, a baseball game with Dad pitching, a moonlight stroll with Mother?these are the memories that will be etched on the minds of our children. They will perhaps forget the many gifts under the Christmas tree, but the memory of Christmas carols with Mother or Dad at the piano and the family gathered around will come back at Christmastime each year.
"But, I haven't time to do all these things!" we hear you exclaim. Is your job merely to clothe the child's body, or are his mind and soul part of your glorious responsibility? Most of us are so occupied with the physical side of life that we lose sight of the spiritual and aesthetic. The physical comforts or the lack of them are not quite so important if we have learned the true value of the gifts of nature which cost us nothing.
Spring and summer in the lives of our children should mean watching new things grow?flowers, grass, vegetables, puppies, kittens, chicks. If possible each should have a part in the planting and care of a little garden of his own, even if it is only a window box or a bowl of lilies. Let him feel the richness of the good earth in his hands and learn the strength that comes from it. The sandpile offers a good introduction to the earth and provides the child his own little plot of ground in which to dig as he chooses. This also provides a rich opportunity for parent and child to get acquainted. Teach him the wonders of the world as you build mountains, valleys, rivers, lakes, and castles together. Most children soon tire of riding up and down on a tricycle or wagon, no matter what they cost, but give them a little earth or sand to dig in and note the happy hours they will spend in joyous content. The child who knows the clouds, wind, rain, flowers, birds, insects, and the rising sun, is seldom a lonely child. But the child, who is stranger to all these and depends on purchased pleasures, is usually restless and lonely because he desires something new and different to entertain him and keep him happy. This child has a false conception of life; someone has failed him.
THE child, who stands with his parents at the close of the day viewing the glories of the setting sun, has riches money cannot buy. Pent-up feelings, misunderstandings sink with the sun and in their place comes the radiant glow of joy and contentment. By his side are pillars of strength and understanding to steady him in life's thrilling adventure.
Yes, Spring is here! The whole year is here with countless ways of helping us discover our children.
Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
No. III?Heroic Period
"Could we give one gift to every child, we should choose the love of books." ?William Frederick Bigelow.*
A BOOK may inspire as well as inform; it may mold ideals as well as supply ideas; it may color the outlook as well as present the facts of life. For these reasons it is important that the child have guidance in his reading, or careful selection as to what is read to him.
BOYS and Girls will read, and at the period between 12 and 14 they want something exciting. If good stories are not provided they will find cheap ones. Mothers should know the nature of bad books that fall into children's hands if they would successfully guide their children's reading.
There are two classes of bad books: First?The thrilling tale of impossible adventure, weak, sentimental, and enervating; neither strong enough to incite to action, nor aiming to inculcate noble ideas of right or wrong. Second?The really vicious tale, presenting false standards of life and morals, under the glamor of the sensational love-story, or the daring adventures of criminals, detectives or other questionable heroes. Where good things are provided, children will come to see the worthlessness of these things, but unless they are, their views of life will be colored by them.
*Courtesy Good Housekeeping Magazine.
HAWTHORNE, in his story of the "Great Stone Face", gives us a picture of a boy growing up under the influence of a high ideal. Loving the granite profile on the mountain side, which expresses to him what is best in human character, he grows to be like it. Such is always the result of companionship with the great and good. Read this story to the family every few months, not only for its inspiration but for the beauty of the lines and the choice of words.
Let us never trust to luck hoping that our boys will turn out all right even if we do not supply them with the proper material. Things just don't happen that way. When we feel that the associates of our boys and girls are not just right, there is a world into which they may enter and find companionship?the world of books. They may "wander in the woods with Hiawatha, sail the seas with Sinbad the Sailor, build stockades with Robinson Crusoe, joust with Sir Galahad and play football with Tom Brown." From these playmates they will learn to be brave, self-reliant, manly, thoughtful of others and straightforward. We cannot afford to let our boys grow up without the friendship of these companions who will make them strong and true.
At this age when impressions are still made quickly, a child needs an antidote for bad companionship and it can be found in the covers of a good book. Unless a boy is given a true hero he will set up a wrong sort, perhaps the bully of the school. But if he once knows these fine characters in books, he will hold them as his ideals.
BOOKS influence us in two ways, aesthetically and morally. They affect taste and character. One who is called a great educator has said. "If during the first 12 years of a child's life he has been made familiar with the best literature, adapted to his thought, there need be no fear that he will ever read unworthy books. One who has not been thus trained finds poison in the printed page as well as healing."
Never allow children to buy the sensational stuff carried by news stands. The untrained child knows no difference in books. All he wants is action and excitement and he gets it. Toughs and clever cracksmen are the heroes of these cheap tales. Tales of robberies and holdups inspire a wish to emulate these things. Many criminal acts, we are told, have been traced to such books as "Tracy the Bandit."
Another class of literature even more dangerous, are the stories of the demimonde, and shady tales of night life. Those who are familiar with reform work say that no other agency outside the movie, is so far responsible for crime among the young as the obscene novel and the story of successful crime.
Another dangerous class is the class in which sensationalism is made respectable. The hero is always getting into scrapes but finally grows up to marry a nice girl and live in peace and prosperity. This is an exceedingly dangerous type of story. Keep children's time so full that they will have no place for it.
CHILDREN, and parents too, should learn that the vital and permanent things in literature are preserved in books. Don't let magazines take their place. Let every child have his own bookcase or his shelf in the library to call his own. A good book for each birthday will soon give him a fine collection. Children do not need fresh reading matter all the time. For a very modern book, "Gay Neck", the charming story of a carrier pigeon in the war, could be read to advantage every year for years to come.
If you have no one to consult about your children's reading, go to the children's librarian. Don't leave them to chance. Remember that the strongest intellects of history are those nourished in childhood upon a few good books, until the thought and style become their permanent possessions. "Too many books dissipate the intellectual force of our children." Let us teach them, as well as ourselves to become familiar with a few great books.
Suggested Books to Buy: Little Women ? Alcott ? For Girls. Boy's Life of Lincoln ? Helen Nicolay. Ann of Green Gables?Montgomery. Treasure Island?Stevenson.