Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
IN MARCH?Today there is joy in the world, for spring is near.
FARIDA ZULFIKAR, 16, slender and dark-eyed, became Queen of Egypt this past winter. Hers was the first royal wedding since the days of the Pharaohs and was a spectacular and joyous occasion. Farida was not permitted to be present at her wedding ceremony, neither will she ever attend official parties and must be veiled in public. She is quite modern in most things, revels in smart clothes and is deeply in love with the youthful King. KATHARINE HEPBURN is said to be just as charming in her new comedy picture as she was in "Little Women." - CROWN PRINCESS JULIANA'S new baby girl may carry into the third generation the line of Queens reigning over the Netherlands. MRS. MARY D. BRIGGS, postmistress of Los Angeles, receives a salary of $10,000 a year. Only New York and Chicago postmasters receive more. There are now 7,108 women in charge of post-offices. The first woman postmistress in the United States was Mary K. Goddard. She was appointed in 1775 by Postmaster General Benjamin Franklin. MLLE. HUANG, Chinese Consul in London, is_ self-educated. Most of the outstanding Chinese women are daughters of Mandarins, but this young diplomat worked her way to the top. MARY AGNES HAMILTON, one of England's most distinguished women, in a recent lecture observes that women have not advanced enough. "However," she says, "the new generation, free from old oppressions, just out of college, may do better but they don't seem as bright as they might be." LITTLE Gloria Vanderbilt had $52,052 spent for her in 1937. Too bad some of it couldn't have been given to the malnourished children of New York. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER, associate member of the General Board of Relief Society, died last month. She was endeared to all the women of Zion for her many fine qualities. MARY LOUISA WOOLLEY CLARK, a beloved pioneer mother, died recently. She was an active Church worker and an exemplary Latter-day Saint. AMELIA EARHART, lost aviatrix, left a book, the manuscript of which, with the log, charts, and maps of her last flight, have been placed in the World Center for Women's Archives in New York. HON. AGNES C. McPHAIL, who lectured en tour in the United States recently, is the first woman member of the Canadian Parliament. She was elected as an Independent for thirteen consecutive years. LOUISE RAINER'S performance in the "Good Earth" is pronounced by the critics the best for the year of 1937.