Notes to the Field Time of Lesson Presentation NUMBER of letters have come to the office requesting that the month the lesson is to be presented be published in connection with each lesson. All of the organizations do not begin lesson work at the same time, thus making it impossible for this procedure to be followed. It is optional with the stakes whether they begin the lesson courses in September or October. To meet the convenience of those who wish their lesson courses earlier, the first lessons for the year are published in the July issue of the Magazine. This gives the stakes starting in September the opportunity of having the lessons two months in advance of their presentation. If the class leaders will watch the publication of the lessons and keep this fact in mind, they will be able to determine which lesson should be presented each month. Work and Business ONE of the best means of stretching the clothing budget is to remodel old or used clothing, using for smaller and younger children partly worn-out articles, those that have been outgrown by older children, or clothes that have been worn so long one has become tired of them. The secret of successfully using old clothing is to change the identity of the original article as much as possible. Don't just make the dress, skirt, coat, or trousers smaller by taking in the seams, shortening the sleeves or skirt, or using some other means to make the old article do for the smaller child. Very little difficulty will be encountered in satisfying a child with a remodeled dress, coat, or trousers, if the article looks like new, and not like mother's, father's, or an older brother's or sister's, made smaller. The most satisfactory way to remodel any garment is to pick the old one apart. Clean pieces well, a good tubbing in mild suds being the most satisfactory method if the fabric can be handled that way. Then the new garment should be cut from the old, discarding the worn spots and changing the style as much as the pieces of the original will permit. Buckles, buttons, and trimming on adult garments may not be suitable for a young person. Usually they are not. A small outlay of money for a touch of trimming will help make the old material into a garment suitable for a young person and may make all the difference in the world to the happiness of a child for whom the garment is made. Don't discard old clothing that is good enough to be made over. Remodeling is the best method there is to make the dollars for clothing cover the needs of the family.