Sacrament Meeting By Wendell J. Ashton
Let us carry our minds back through the centuries to a little pastoral country of Palestine on the other side of the globe. Suppose we are journeying with a traveler of that day, over the sands from Judea to Galilee, on the shorter route. However, most travelers use the longer route, the reason being that most of them are Jews, and the shorter route passes through Samaria. Jews will not pass over the "unclean" territory of the Samaritans, for they consider this neighboring people inferior.
As our weary wayfarer continues on his way, he pauses at a well on the outskirts of a little village called Sychar, resting near the slopes of Mount Gerizim, long a Samaritan shrine. This well is a famous watering place. It has been the source of water back through centuries. It is called Jacob's Well, named for one of the forbears of our traveler, and is the same well that Jacob of old gave to his son, Joseph.
As our traveler sits by the well resting his tired feet, a woman comes to fill her water-jar. She is a Samaritan, but that makes no difference to our traveler. He asks of her, "Give me to drink." She hesitates, astonished that a Jew should speak to her. Catching her breath, she queries coyly: "How is it that thou, being a Jew, asketh drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans."
Momentarily forgetting his thirst, the traveler replies: "If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water."
The woman does not understand Jesus?for that is who our traveler is. She thinks He is referring to the well, and she reminds Him that He has no bucket or cord with which to draw from the deep well, and asks Him if He is greater than Father Jacob, who gave her people the well and who drank of the well himself and who gave his cattle drink thereof.
Jesus can see that she does not catch the spiritual meaning of His words. She fails to understand His point just as the scholar, Nicodemus, did. Then He adds, "But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life."
We as Latter-day Saints understand what the water was which the Christ spoke of. It is His Gospel and the spirit which comes from those who drink of its freshness. There is no better place to find this soul-nourishing influence than at our sacrament meetings.
Our sacrament meeting is the well. It supplies in spiritual qualities what Jacob's well provided for the home of that Samaritan woman. With her large jug she visited the well periodically?regularly. She couldn't store a large supply of water at her home for it would stagnate. The water which Jesus spoke of is the same in our lives. We cannot hope to store up enough of it during one week to last us for the whole month or the whole year. We must go to the well regularly to keep fresh spiritually.
As the water of Jacob's well was the treasured heritage of the woman of Samaria, so is the Gospel our priceless legacy. Even more pure and eternal than the sparkling water of the well, it strengthens us as it has strengthened our forbears.
If it is only to partake of the sacrament, our Sunday night meetings are necessary. Partaking of the sacrament symbolizes gratitude and covenant. Through it we express appreciation to the weary Traveler for the greatest gift ever bequeathed to mankind?the gift of resurrection and atonement for our sins which the Man of Galilee provided for us in that supreme sacrifice on a roughhewn cross on Calvary. Through the sacrament, we covenant to show by our deeds that we sincerely are thankful for this gift of the Master.
The Gospel should be the very foundation of our lives. In sacrament meetings we are reminded of the basic principles of Mormonism. They are guideposts to happiness. May we ever seek them by regular visits to the well.

I