Planning to Provide a Year's Supply
Eider Mark B. Gaiff, Member, General Welfare Committee,
and Gertrude R. Garff, former Counselor, Relief Society General Presidency

But if any provide not for his own,
And specially for those of his own house,
He hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel (I Timothy 5:8).

The ultimate temporal success and security
Of the members of the Church will be determined
By the diligence of the people to make themselves self-sustaining in all respects.
We must understand that we are not only to sustain ourselves,
But also to build up the Church financially
In order that the Church as an organization may help those members who have met with misfortune and find it impossible to help themselves.
Everyone is a potential recipient of help within the Welfare Plan of the Church.
No one, with few exceptions, can justify himself in expecting the Church to take care of his need continually.

The Welfare Plan was given to rehabilitate
And encourage members,
To bring them back to a point of self-sufficiency.
The plan is not a dole. It is not a process
Of continually contributing to the individual,
Who can (when properly directed) be self-sustaining.
Every man longs for security, no matter how humble his circumstances may be;
But there is no justification in expecting the Church to give us such security
If we will not labor with our own hands nor use our own minds.

The Church cannot support all of its people;
Nor can it insure temporal security to all its members.
It can, by our assistance and contributions,
Insure help to the widow, the fatherless, the handicapped,
And those who may temporarily find themselves in financial difficulty.

There is much I can do to help myself
So that I need not become a burden to the Church
Provided I have the desire to do so.
If the desire does not exist, the outcome will only be negative.
The desire must be strong enough that the individual will be willing
To labor with his own hands,
To recognize that work is honorable,
That his hands will be stayed from laying hold upon another man's goods.

There is a magic of power in the strength of one's own desires!
We must live according to our income;
Our power to save must be greater than our desire to spend.
We must live upon less than we can and seek advice
From those who are competent, through their experience and calling,
To give advice as to how to make our savings work for us.

Wealth and security seem to grow wherever men exert energy in the right direction.
There cannot be security without labor;
There cannot be progress without experience;
And we cannot prosper without adhering to the counsel of our prophets.

It seems that if we want to be self-sustaining,
We must first look to ourselves as the geniuses
To provide such a future.
Our first obligation is to provide for our own.
How this can be accomplished has been considered.
The First Presidency has urged you and me, as individuals,
To prepare ourselves and our families so that we have a year's supply of food, clothing, and bedding on hand at all times,
So that in case of any emergency we will be prepared to assume our own responsibility
And not expect the Church to make this provision for us.

Our supply at the Bishop's storehouse would last only a few days if everyone made demands at once.
In fact, under those conditions, the supplies in all the storehouses would be gone in a matter of days.
Thus the only way we could meet an emergency,
If one should arise that is widespread,
Would be for every man to have sufficient on hand
To take care of his own.

This task can be accomplished only by careful preparation.
The preparation need not be elaborate, but must be a continual process with watchful planning.
Opportunity is a haughty goddess who wastes no time with those who are unprepared.
Depressions show no mercy on empty storehouses and empty stomachs.

The planning for this preparedness can be most interesting
And stimulating to one's thinking as well as give one an opportunity
To work with his own hands.

Let us first consider food:
If one would have a year's supply on hand,
There must be storage space somewhere within the confines of the home.
(Some complain that they have no room for such storage, but there is always a way to accomplish such storage if the desire to do so is strong enough.)
Let it be remembered that we are not hoarding,
So that we will not become overbalanced in our efforts.
We are providing only staple commodities for our own families.

In my own family we have made the experiment,
And it has proved very satisfactory in our own instance.
It could be helpful to anyone living in the Intermountain area under similar conditions.

It was decided that our storehouse should be as close to our kitchen as possible.
An outside cellar was not what we wanted, as we live in Salt Lake City.
There was only one place close to the kitchen,
And that was somewhere in the house.

THE most logical place seemed to be the coolest place,
So we selected the northeast corner of our basement.
In trying to estimate our needs and at the same time cut our storage space to a minimum,
We decided on a room 5 feet by 19 feet.

PLANNING TO PROVIDE A YEAR'S SUPPLY

In this space we had to make provision for storing potatoes, carrots, apples, cabbage, beets, citrus fruits, and others.
Accordingly, we built one bin 13 feet long by 2 1/2 feet wide by 3 1/2 feet high,
And divided it into five compartments.
(The see plan.)

The largest compartment was for potatoes.
The concrete floor under the bin was removed so as to let the moisture work from underneath the bin;
And a wood floor was installed made of slats about six inches above the dirt level.

In this way nothing could touch the earth, and dirt from the vegetables could fall through and later be removed from underneath, instead of waiting for the bin to become empty and then clean it from the top. The movement of air from underneath the bin seemed to be advantageous; is the top of each bin is covered with a hinged lid to keep out any light. We believe that potatoes and other root vegetables keep better away from light. We arranged one of the five bins (or compartments) just large enough to take one case of oranges and one case of grapefruit stored side by side, and found that they kept very well up to thirty or forty days. The bin for carrots and red beets had a solid wood bottom so as to hold sand, but was removable when the bin was empty. We packed our carrots and beets in sand and found that they kept well until late spring. You can accomplish the same result with these vegetables by packing them in sand in large cans, provided the room is dark and cool. The bins need not be made of expensive lumber. Scrap lumber can be used. (See plan.) Our next problem was storage of flour, sugar, syrup, honey, macaroni, etc. We constructed a hanging shelf above our bins high enough for the hinged lids to clear underneath when opened. PLANNING TO PROVIDE A YEAR'S SUPPLY This was constructed by hanging brackets from the ceiling joists. The shelf was 1½ feet wide by 13 feet long, hanging about 2 feet down from the ceiling. This provided storage for a year's supply of flour, sugar, and the other items, which can be stored in sacks or cans. (See plan.) Next was the storing of bottled fruit. We constructed fruit shelves directly across from our storage bins. We built 5 shelves out of 1" by 12" boards spaced one foot above each other, leaving room on the top shelf to store wheat in cans of about a bushel each. These shelves were in two sections of about 5-foot lengths, with space between the sections of about 3 feet for large cans to be stacked on top of each other. These contained nearly 2 bushels of wheat each. We also stacked wheat in 2-bushel cans at the very end of the walkway. The shelves themselves contained about 400 quarts of fruit. (See plan.) NEXT TO consider was canned goods. We had used 13 of the 19 feet of our storage room, and we had to have 3 feet of wall space for a door. We had the door swing out so as not to use up any of the inside room. Then we made more shelves in an "L" shape on the end and the side opposite the doorway. (See plan.) We made the two lower shelves on one side of the "L," 1½ feet wide and 2 feet high, thus giving us space to store cans of 1 and 2-bushel size or packaged goods, such as soap and cleansers. In the large cans we stored rice, dried beans, powdered sugar, vinegar in bottles, dried corn, prunes in 5-packs, and many other items. The hand soap and packaged soap had no taste effect on any of the food items stored in cans. We then had 4 upper shelves of that side and all the shelves of the other side of the "L" left for canned goods. Here we stored canned corn, beans, beets, peas, spaghetti, soup of all kinds, ketchup, tomatoes, shrimps, pickles, sardines, salmon, meat, squash, olive oil, spices, and so on. We found to our surprise that we could store a great amount of food. Yes, more than we anticipated; even more space than we had money to buy food for. We supplemented this supply with a small garden in our back yard, about 16 by 80 feet, which each year gives us ample vegetables for our summer use and enough carrots, onions, etc., to augment our winter storage. A summer garden is a big asset to help supply your winter needs, particularly so because the vegetables can be stored when new and fresh and in the best of condition. No family with ordinary means can fill such a storeroom in one year. It is a process of several years of saving and planning, and the hard part is not the building of the storage room itself, but the continual process of keeping your stock moving, and always replacing new stock for that which you have used. If you determine always to put into your storage room more than you take out over a year's time, it will only be a matter of a few years until you have accomplished your purpose. However, you must be like the storekeeper who always keeps 

an inventory of his stock, and never lima beans and canned red beets. If his shelves become empty, bottled fruit has kept reasonably well for three years. Keep your bottled fruit off the concrete; store it on wood shelves. Syrup may not keep three years, properly cured honey has kept five years. Of our experience, we have carried on out experiments for six years, and we are very satisfied with the results. At least it is also to be remembered that of your room, about 12 by 12 inches, one foot wide, thus giving you a little more room to walk around and display your supplies. Just what the future holds is a big question, but no matter what may come we feel sure that we are better prepared to meet the future than we were in 1930 when we all suffered financial losses that were hard to endure. Fresh air must come into the room. If you can line your room with %-inch celotex or other insulating material, it will help you to regulate the temperature. Supply of food, clothing, bedding, etc., on hand, let come what may OUR experience has taught us that all the above mentioned commodities can be stored in one room. Dry wheat stored in small containers (not over two bushels) has kept for five years without turning at any time. Rice and beans are in good condition after five years. Hand soap is in excellent condition after three years. Sugar may harden somewhat, but is still good after three years. The Fiddlers Edna S. Dustin When you hear a cricket starting to tune His old bass fiddle, listen, and soon Others will join and start fiddling high If you wait, you will hear a great symphony. Four New Members Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Josie Barnson Bay Evelyn Wilde Heath Former President, San Bernardino Stake Relief Society EWS of the appointment on May 26, 1948, of Josie Barnson Bay Evelyn Wilde Heath Former President, San Bernandino Stake Relief Society NEWS of the appointment on ay 26, 1948, of Jose Barnson Bay to the general board of Relief Society will be happily received by her numerous devoted friends. Words seem so inadequate to express her worth one thinks of the joyous glory of spring, with its sunshine, its warmth, its blossoms lovely blossoms that bring forth precious fruits. Jo, as we affectionately call her, is like that joyous, enthusiastic, progressive, with an infectious smile, and a heart that holds much warmth, friendliness, humility, and understanding. Like the blossoms, she is not only lovely and charming, but she, too, brings forth precious fruits of wisdom, edifying all who associate with her. Her great knowledge and testimony of the gospel are results of capable and untiring service in the Church. One of her finest qualities is her sincere love for people, which brings her that great power to organize, to gain co-operation, unity, and, consequently, unmeasured success. Josie was born in Junction, Utah, the daughter of John and Hannah Barnson, both staunch Latter-day Saints. JOSIE BARNSON BAY Her first responsible positions in Church work were: Primary president, then Y. W. M. I. A. President, both of Junction Ward. After her marriage to Ira M. Bay, who is most loyal and helpful and a sincere Church worker, they served as missionaries in the California Mission. Her first experience in Relief Society work was at that time as a counselor. Page 513 Since that introduction, she has served Relief Society in the following positions: president of Junction Ward; first president of Boulder City Ward; president of San Bernardino Ward; stake secretary of Garfield Stake; stake president of San Bernardino Stake for six years. She next was stake Y.W.M.I.A. president of San Diego Stake for two years. Her last service, before moving to Salt Lake, was as stake Relief Society president of San Diego Stake, where she served for two and one half years. In each position her work has been outstanding and glorious. She is the mother of six children, five daughters: Madeline, Dawn, Anna Dee, Jo Iris, Drusilla, and one son Francis McMurrin Bay, now serving in the East Central States Mission. This appointment is a fitting reward for her worthy achievements. May glorious blessings be hers, always. Alta Jensen Vance Madeline P. Stevens Secretary-Treasurer, Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society IN the Book of Mosiah in the Book of Mormon we read "that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." This true principle has been adhered to since her early teens by Alta J. Vance who was appointed to the Relief Society general board on May 26, 1948. Born the daughter of Amanda Jane Clement and Ephraim Jensen, at Wales, Sanpete County, Utah, she comes of stalwart pioneer ancestry. Her mother passed away when she was twelve days old and she was reared by her father's sister in Fairview until she was six years of age. At this time, her father re-married and she returned to live with him and receive her education. Graduating from Moroni High School, she came to Salt Lake City to attend the Latter-day Saints Business College and continued her courses from the University of Utah. Sister Vance has given service in all of the auxiliary organizations of the Church. In the Relief Society, she was literature class leader in the Harvard Ward; social science leader of Mt. Olympus Ward, later serving as a stake board member in this capacity in Big Cottonwood Stake. As president of Mt. Olympus Ward Relief Society, she served from August 29, 1942, until her appointment as Relief Society stake president of Big Cottonwood Stake, March 18, 1945. ALTA JENSEN VANCE NEW BOARD MEMBERS

In 1939, Brother Vance left on a two-year mission to Canada and during his absence the responsibility of business and family fell to Sister Vance. She was very successful in both these undertakings. She is the mother of two fine sons, Roland and Byron, and a very gracious daughter, Loretta. Sister Vance has remarkable organizational ability, wisdom, caution, and a deep feeling of compassion and tolerance. In her humility and steadfastness, hers will be a service of love and joy in connection with her general board work.