Alberta Huish Christensen
Vesta P. Crawford
Associate Editor, TheON June 2, 1948, a gifted and gracious woman, Alberta Huish Christensen, was appointed a member of the general board of Relief Society.

Berta, as she is known to her friends, was born in Springlake, Utah, a daughter of James William Huish and Mary Elizabeth Fillmore. One of the younger members of a large and talented family, she was educated in the schools of Utah and received her A.B. degree in English literature at Brigham Young University, where she was an honor student, active in dramatics, and editor of the literary magazine.

Her service in Church organizations began with Sunday School teaching and has continued through nearly all the auxiliaries, including executive positions in ward and stake Relief Societies. She was also a counselor in New York Stake Y.W.M.I.A. and a stake missionary, serving to Salt Lake City. Berta has ably served as a member of Emigration Stake Relief Society board and has contributed greatly to the many outstanding activities which this stake has so successfully carried out.

NEW BOARD MEMBERS

Actively interested in genealogical research, Berta has completed many records for her family. She has exceptional organizing ability which enables her to use her time and energy to best advantage with grace and dignity. Blessed with many artistic gifts, Berta has been an award winner in several Eliza R. Snow poem contests and has contributed frontispiece poems of exceptional quality to the Magazine. Her literary compositions have appeared in many other publications, and musical arrangements have been made for a number of her poems. She is well known as a reader of poetry, and her painting, in several mediums, is of exceptional originality and reveals exquisite technique.

"Multiple-gifted" applies to Berta, for she has additional talents in the domestic and fine arts. Berta's husband, Dr. Carl J. Christensen, a former bishop of Queen's Ward, New York, and a member of the stake presidency there, is now Dean of the School of Mines and Mineral Industries at the University of Utah. The Christensens have four children: a married daughter, Mary Ellen Snow; Berta Mae, a student at Brigham Young University; and two young sons, Carl H. and James H.

The appointment of Berta to the general board will give the women of the Church an opportunity to enjoy the leadership of a competent and lovely woman who has demonstrated her ability to place first things first. Her three-fold objective for a well-integrated life is expressed through her devotion to the practical phases of the home, self-expression through the creative arts, and spiritual enrichment through Church activity.

PETITION

Eunice J. Miles
Help us, Lord, to love and pray
Planning for the common good,
Gaining courage to create
Lasting bonds of sisterhood.