Relief Society Building News

RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND REACHES 76% OF QUOTA

The shaded part of the thermometer on the corner of this drawing of the proposed new building represents 76% of the total fund which had been received in the general offices on June 23, 1948. The annual General Relief Society Conference will convene on September 29 and 30. The morning session on September 30 will be held in the Tabernacle from 10 a.m. to 12 noon and will feature the Relief Society Building Fund program. It is hoped there will be an official representative from each of the stakes of Zion, and from many missions, so that recognition may be given to every stake and mission which completes its quota. At that session announcement will be made of the amount of money which has been collected.

It is the earnest prayer of the general board that every stake in the Church may be thus recognized, and all Relief Society members may be listed as contributors.

The lists of contributions will not be called for until after the completion of the fund-raising period, allowing each sister the full fund-raising year in which to make her quota payment, and Special and Memorial Gifts. As the time draws to a close, increasingly there are Memorial Gifts being made. Sometimes this is done by individuals. Other times families unite in making one large Memorial Gift for a beloved mother or grandmother. The gifts are credited either in the ward in which the individual making the gift lives or in the ward in which the person memorialized lived. In one instance a gift was made by a great-granddaughter to the ward in Salt Lake where her great-grandmother had lived who had joined the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Every daughter and daughter-in-law in some families is making an individual Memorial Gift to her mother so that each one's name appears with that of the mother. Wherever the gifts are made, both the name of the donor and the name of the one being memorialized will be placed in the cornerstone.

According to the present plan, a great book will be made containing the names of all who contribute to the Relief Society building, to be preserved in a special case in the building which will stand as a lasting tribute to the faithfulness of Relief Society members today.

Missions Which Have Sent In 100% Building Quotas:
Northern California Mission
Eastern States Mission
Hawaiian Mission
Samoan Mission
New Zealand Mission

Stakes Which Have Sent In 100% Building Quotas:
South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
San Diego Stake (California)
Wells Stake (Utah)
Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming)
Granite Stake (Utah)
North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Emigration Stake (Utah)
Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
Nevada Stake (Nevada and Utah)
Utah Stake (Utah)
Seattle Stake (Washington)
South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Juarez Stake (Mexico)
Florida Stake (Florida)
Temple View Stake (Utah)
Bear River Stake (Utah)
Parowan Stake (Utah)
Liberty Stake (Utah)
Smithfield Stake (Utah)
Sugar House Stake (Utah)
Salt Lake Stake (Utah)
San Luis Stake (Colorado)
Oneida Stake (Idaho)
Tooele Stake (Utah)
San Juan Stake (Utah)
Sevier Stake (Utah)
Grant Stake (Utah)
East Provo Stake (Utah)
American Falls Stake (Idaho)
Oquirrh Stake (Utah)
East Rigby Stake (Idaho)
San Bernardino Stake (California)

Branches (In Missions) Which Have Completed Their Membership Building Quotas (Since publication of the list in the July Magazine, and prior to July 8, 1948):
Akron Branch, Northern States
Ames Branch, Northern States
Ashland Branch, East Central States
Barntford Branch, Canadian
Barstow Branch, California
Bayou La Croix Branch, Southern States
Beaumont Branch, California
Blythe Branch, California
Cambridge City Branch, Northern States
Canon City Branch, Western States
Carlsbad Branch, California
Center Point Branch, Northern States
Cherry Grove Branch, Western Canadian
Cleburne Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Columbus Branch, Northern States (These are two branches by the same name)
Craig Branch, Western States
Corpus Christi Branch, Texas
Dallas Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Des Moines Branch, Northern States
Duluth Branch, North Central States
Elsinore Branch, California
Enoch Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Evansville Branch, Northern States
Farmer City Branch, Northern States
Fort Lupton Branch, Western States
Fort William Branch, North Central States
Fort Worth Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Fremont Branch, Western States
Gallup Branch, Western States
Gilmer Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Glasgow Branch, North Central States
Glenwood Springs Branch, Western States
Gonzales Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Grand Forks Branch, North Central States
Greeley Branch, Western States
Jefferson City Branch, Central States
Kilgore Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Laguna Beach Branch, California
Lancaster Branch, California
Lansing Branch, Northern States
Lewiston Branch, North Central States
Lincoln Branch, Western States
Logan Branch, East Central States
Louisville Branch, East Central States
Madison Branch, Northern States
Mankato Branch, North Central States
Marion Branch, Northern States
Medicine Hat Branch, Western Canadian
Meeker Branch, Western States
Minneapolis Branch, North Central States
Muncie Branch, Northern States
Needles Branch, California
Newport News Branch, Central Atlantic States
North Indianapolis Branch, Northern States
Omaha Branch, Western States
Orlando Branch, Southern States
Purdue Branch, Northern States
Pride Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Quincy Branch, Northern States
Rochester Branch, North Central States
Saginaw Branch, Northern States
San Antonio Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Santa Paula-Fillmore Branch, California
Sarasota Branch, Southern States
Savannah Branch, Southern States
Sheboygan Branch, Northern States
Sheridan Branch, Western States
Silver Park Branch, Western Canadian
Sioux Falls Branch, North Central States
South Bend Branch, Northern States
South Indianapolis Branch, Northern States
Trona Branch, California
Tyler Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Ventura Branch, California
Waco Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Williston Branch, North Central States
Wichita Falls Branch, Texas-Louisiana

Wards and Branches (In Stakes) Which Have Completed Their Membership Quotas (Since publication of the list in the July Magazine, and prior to July 8, 1948):
Aberdeen Ward, American Falls
Aetna Ward, Alberta
Alhambra Ward, Pasadena
Augusta Branch, South Carolina
Balboa Ward, San Francisco
Ballard Ward, Roosevelt
Baltimore Ward, Washington
Bay Ridge Branch, New York
Benson Ward, East Cache
Boise Third Ward, Boise
Bountiful First Ward, South Davis
Bountiful Second Ward, South Davis
Bountiful Fourth Ward, South Davis
Bonneville Ward, East Provo
Bonneville Park Ward, Ben Lomond
Brigham City First Ward, South Box Elder
Brooklyn Ward, New York
Bunkerville Ward, Moapa
Burley First Ward, Burley
Burley Fourth Ward, Burley
Burlingame Ward, Palo Alto
Burlington Ward, Big Horn
Burton Ward, South Salt Lake
Centinela Ward, Inglewood
Central Ward, St. Joseph
Central Ward, South Sevier
Central Park Ward, South Salt Lake
Centerville First Ward, Davis
Charleston Ward, Wasatch
Chico Ward, Gridley
Circleville Ward, Garfield
Cody Branch, Big Horn
Cokeville Ward, Montpelier
Colonial Heights Ward, Portland
Colonial Hills Ward, Hillside
Colton Ward, San Bernardino
Columbia Ward, South Carolina
Coutts Branch, Taylor
Dishman Ward, Spokane
Dragerton Branch, Carbon
East Midvale First Ward, East Jordan
East Midvale Second Ward, East Jordan
Eastmont Ward, Pasadena
Eden Ward, St. Joseph
Ely Ward, Nevada
Elysian Park Ward, San Fernando
Ephraim North Ward, South Sanpete

Smithfield Stake (Utah) Completes Building Fund Quota:
Left to right: Elizabeth P. Astle, Stake Secretary-Treasurer; Lucille Erickson, President, Smithfield First Ward Relief Society; Viola B. Jones, President, Newton Ward; Christina Blanchard, President, Smithfield Third Ward; Sarah Petty, President, Amalga Ward; Mary P. Thompson, President, Clarkston Ward; Vera Roskelley, President, Smithfield Fourth Ward; Lily Hansen, President, Smithfield Second Ward; Anne M. Farr, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society.

The ward presidents are seen receiving their building fund certificates. This event was part of the closing day social, June 1, 1948, and for the occasion a beautiful and appropriate poem, written by Sister Elizabeth P. Astle, was read.

Joseph Fullerton Ward, Long Beach Garfield Ward, Oquirrh Garrison Branch, Nevada Georgetown Ward, Montpelier Glenwood Ward, Sevier Greenbelt Branch, Washington Green River Ward, Lyman Greenville Ward, South Carolina Harrisville Ward, Farr West Haven Ward, South Salt Lake Heber Fourth Ward, Wasatch Henderson Ward, Moapa Highland Ward, Mount Ogden Hilliard Ward, Woodruff Hood River Ward, Portland Huntsville Ward, North Weber Jameston Ward, Shelley Jensen Ward, Uintah Kaysville First Ward, Davis Kelly-Toponce Ward, Idaho Kline Branch, Young Koosharem Ward, Sevier Lake Point Ward, Grantsville Laurelcrest-Beacon Ward, Hillside Lehi Second Ward, Lehi Lehi Third Ward, Lehi Logan Seventh Ward, Mount Logan Logan Square Ward, Chicago Lorraine Ward, Grant Luna Ward, St. Johns Magna Ward, Oquirrh Magrath First Ward, Taylor Magrath Second Ward, Taylor Malad Second Ward, Malad Manila Ward, Timpanogos Menan Ward, Rigby McCall Branch, Weiser Meridian Ward, Boise Mesa First Ward, Maricopa Mesa Fourth Ward, Maricopa Mesa Sixth Ward, Maricopa Mesa Eighth Ward, Maricopa Midvale First Ward, East Jordan Midway First Ward, Wasatch Milford Ward, Beaver Milo Ward, East Rigby Milwaukee South Branch, Chicago Milwaukee Ward, Chicago Modesto Ward, Sacramento Montpelier Third Ward, Montpelier Monroe South Ward, South Sevier Morgan Ward, Morgan Moscow Ward, Spokane Mound Fort Ward, Farr West Mound Valley Ward, Bannock Mt. Olympus Ward, Big Cottonwood Mt. Pleasant South Ward, North Sanpete Mt. Trumbull Ward, St. George Murtaugh Ward, Twin Falls Naglee Park Branch, Palo Alto Nampa First Ward, Nampa Nampa Second Ward, Nampa Naples Ward, Uintah Newdale Ward, North Rexburg Nibley Ward, Hyrum North Logan, East Cache North Shore Ward, Chicago Nounan Ward, Montpelier Oakland Ward, Oakland Ogden Fourth Ward, North Weber Ogden Sixth Ward, North Weber Ogden Eighteenth Ward, South Ogden Ogden Twenty-fourth Ward, Mount Ogden Ogden Twenty-seventh Ward, South Ogden Ogden Thirty-second Ward, Weber Otto Branch, Big Horn Overton Ward, Moapa Ovid Ward, Bear Lake Palmyra Ward, Palmyra Panguitch South Ward, Panguitch Paradise Ward, Hyrum Park City First Ward, South Summit Parley's Ward, Highland Peterson Ward, Morgan Price Second Ward, North Carbon Price Third Ward, Carbon Pocatello Second Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Seventh Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Twelfth Ward, Pocatello Pomona Ward, San Bernardino Provo Seventh Ward, Provo Provo Eighth Ward, East Provo Provo Ninth Ward, East Provo Prove Tenth Ward, Provo Provo Eleventh Ward, West Utah Provo Twelfth Ward, East Provo Racine Branch, Chicago Raymond Second Ward, Taylor Redondo Ward, Inglewood Reseda Ward, San Fernando Richmond Ward, Washington Rigby First Ward, Rigby Rigby Third Ward, East Rigby Rigby Fourth Ward, Rigby Riverside Ward, Riverside Riverton Second Ward, West Jordan Riverview Ward, Pioneer Rockland Ward, American Falls Roosevelt Ward, Roosevelt Roosevelt Second Ward, Roosevelt Rosecrest Ward, East Mill Creek Roslyn Heights Ward, Highland Rupert First Ward, Minidoka St. George Fourth Ward, St. George Sandy Second Ward, Mount Jordan San Fernando Ward, San Fernando San Francisco Ward, San Francisco San Leandro Ward, Oakland Santa Monica Ward, Inglewood Shelley Third Ward, Shelley Society Hill Branch, South Carolina Spanish Fork First Ward, Palmyra Spencer Ward, Oquirrh Spokane Central Ward, Spokane Springfield Ward, American Falls Springview Ward, Grant Sunset Ward, San Francisco Superior Ward, Lyman Timpanogos Ward, Sharon Thatcher Ward, Bannock Thirty-first Ward, Park Thirty-third Ward, Bonneville Twin Groves Ward, Yellowstone Twin Falls Second Ward, Twin Falls Tyrells Lake Branch, Taylor Venice Ward, Sevier Vernal Second Ward, Uintah Victorville Branch, San Bernardino Wallace Branch, Spokane Wandamere Ward, Grant Whittier Ward, Pasadena Wellsville First Ward, Hyrum Woodland Branch, Sacramento Woodville Ward, Shelley Wymount Branch, East Provo The Russells Did Not Go to Church A Three-Part Story. CHAPTER 1 Edith Russell, elder brother Michael was reading, which means that for purposes of ordinary communication, he was quite dead. He was not merely engrossed, he was oblivious. My mother, having passed him four times on her way to and from the kitchen, and having accommodatingly climbed over his protruding legs four times in so doing, endeavored to call to his attention the great desirability of his retiring to his room, there to continue his perusal of great literature with less inconvenience to the family at large. Michael gave no indication of having heard. My mother continued her trips to the kitchen. She returned carrying a large bowl of hot water. She said no more, but a moment later Michael drew in his legs with a voice of protest. "Really, Mother! Can't a fellow...? I was reading about those chaps called Mormons," he expostulated, as though that should explain his intense preoccupation. "Michael!" My mother was horrified. "Those dreadful people! Why, I remember when I was a girl, they visited even the best parts of town, trying to induce nice girls to leave their homes and go with them to Salt Lake City." Michael grinned. "Oh, Mother, come now!" he protested, gently disbelieving. "It's true. I never saw one myself, but at the time it was on everybody's lips." Michael was turning the pages of the book, looking for some passage. "Zane Grey," he said, "thinks they are a decent people." My mother spread her feathers and exuded indignation. "Michael, I shall appreciate it if you will not indulge in such literature in the future. I do not like it!" The little woman resumed her interrupted perambulations to and from the kitchen with renewed vigor, her face a mask of disapproval. Michael looked at me, then at the book now lying in the chair. Then he shrugged and went out. SIX years later the second world war was moving a bloody finger across the map of Europe. Michael was in the East; his place at home was taken by my younger brother, Antony. We led quiet, uneventful lives in the small, sturdy cottage situated on the fringe of the lonely Haworth moors. The peaceful monotony of our existence might be attributed to the fact that although we lived at least on the outskirts of the village, we were not accepted as villagers. My mother was a "city woman." We children had been born in the city, and after fifteen years of living in the village, we were still regarded with curiosity and the sort of aloof respect accorded to strangers. Furthermore, at no time in our lives had we made any attempt to enter that little circle of social life and common purpose, represented by the church. The Russells did not go to church. They never had, unless impelled there by new life or its surcease, or the occasional determination of a Russell bride to have the church solemnize her matrimonial contract. We did not go to church as we did not get drunk. The family, in either case, simply would not have condoned it. Ours was a happy family life, undeviating, unimaginative, smooth. We enjoyed solidarity as a family, but it was the nature of each of us to like to be alone. Antony rode a great deal, as a friendly farmer was not averse to letting him exercise his horses. He was sixteen and blond, with all the energy of a colt. He would be gone all day, then come home at nightfall to eat an enormous supper in the kitchen. My mother worried about him if he was warm enough, if he was safe. But he was like thin whipcord.

He hated any kind of fuss, and was as sensitive as a girl. Michael sweated with the Royal Air Force in Cairo. For my part I had my room and the lanes and fens surrounding the moors. I read a great deal, alone in my room. My small chamber was recognized as sacred, and no one, not even my mother, trespassed there. Michael had painted the walls when it was first given to me, and once when I was sick, he had come in to visit me. Antony was oddly shy of it, though it was not a very feminine room. It was my sanctuary. I intimately lived there.

Walked a great deal and usually alone. About a mile from the house was the parish church of St. Matthews and unfailingly in my walks, I went past the old place, a trifle curious as to what went on behind the stout Gothic walls. I was sometimes tempted to go in. On Tuesday evening the villagers would be at choir practice and the sound of their strong, country voices would float out into the mellow dusk. I used to think, vaguely, of our family conception of church people—narrow, vindictive, transcendently uncharitable. Ostensibly, they were the reason we did not go to church. We had heard that the vicar himself was an irascible gentleman, a Welshman, much given to fire and brimstone, and to denouncing the villagers who did not attend Holy Communion as devils incarnate. The much-maligned villagers had stoned him once, and the big, helmeted police force had broken up the crowd.

"Religion? Bah!" was the unvoiced opinion of our house. What did religion engender but strife and bad feeling? What emotions did it inspire other than hatred and malice and resentment? Honor thy father as well as thy mother, the commandments said. But my father had not inspired honor in his children. He had slipped out of our lives before even our memories could claim him. Religion spelled confusion.

The Russells did not go to church.

But in my walks, the old church of St. Matthews held a strange fascination for me. Walking home across the fields from Henwden, I would mount the hill and see it lying there in the valley, oddly like a jewel in the hollow of a hand. The dying sun would be caught in its turrets; its leaded windows would flash gold, burn somberly, then fade like the embers of an untended fire.

ONE evening during the second summer of the war, I stopped at the edge of the church, ostensibly to admire the long, yellow tassels of the laburnum, but actually, my attention was caught by the playing of a Bach fugue on the organ. There was no one about, and quickly I crossed the wide burial ground and pushed open the immense door under the west tower.

My first impression was one of trapped sunlight—great slanting pillars of it, made tangible and golden by an omnipresent dust. My next was one of loftiness, spaciousness, supplemented by the grand austerity of Bach.

The organist, an old man I had seen often in the village, turned his head as I entered, but returned immediately to his playing. I was glad. My temerity frightened even myself and I had no wish to exchange pleasantries.

I entered a pew just within the door and sat down. I wanted to analyze myself; to say to myself, I am in church. This is St. Matthews. I am in church, and to see how it feels.

I was disloyal, of course. The Russells did not go to church. My mother and Michael and Antony, too, would think me confoundedly odd to have come here. Why had I come? I didn't know. The music, perhaps. Curiosity.

I sat for a little while, letting my senses stray into the crannies of this adventure. The organist changed to Brahms. He played very softly. It occurred to me that in church it was only polite to pray. To say nothing would be like ignoring your host. But the idea embarrassed me. I had no idea what people said to God. It was evident, though, that in church one could not be informal with the Almighty.

I looked at the altar for possible inspiration, at the great brass cross and the purple velvet runner on which were embroidered the letters I.H.S. "In his service," perhaps they meant. I looked up at the remote, dome-like ceiling, upon which the plaster had begun to crack, and felt the immense loneliness and solitude of the place. But no words came.

THE pulpit was laved by a sea of empty pews. The man at the organ ceased playing, suddenly, in the middle of a bar, gathered up his music, and disappeared through a side door. The silence was unexpected and awful. How did one pray in church? What did one say? I had a feeling God was waiting, implacably waiting.

There was a maxim in the family about courtesy—"Courtesy costs nothing." One should be courteous to one's host, even if he happens to be God.

Awkwardly, I slipped to my knees. The quiet pressed down on me, oppressive and weighted with awe. 526 I put my hands together and closed my eyes tightly. "Dear God," I said, "forgive me for disturbing you..." Nothing else. Nothing else would come. I rose and hurried down the aisle, pushing open the great door beneath the west tower. A few seconds more and I was in the mild stillness of the churchyard again. The church was behind me, massive, silent, empty, yet breathing!

Michael would laugh when they wrote to tell him I had gone to church. They would all think it so funny. Perhaps it was. Perhaps I should laugh, too. I rallied all my sense of humor, but fully marshalled, it brought no laughter to my lips. A sense of sadness oppressed me and an unaccustomed sensation of unrest. The feeling remained with me that God was waiting, waiting. And his patience was infinite.

I hurried my footsteps up the hill toward home. The cottage stood on the crest, solid, old as the church, a haven of comfort. My mother sat before the fire, knitting a gray thing for Antony. She looked up as I went in. "Mother," I said, and my voice was that of the penitent before his confessor. "Mother, I have been to church!" My mother put down her knitting.

(To be continued)

ESSENTIALS

Alice Whitson Norton

I love the things with which I've lived
Throughout my entire life,
Like grandma's quaint old soup tureen,
And granddad's carving knife;
My father's pewter shaving mug
An old four-poster bed,
A comfort made from scraps of silk,
And brier-stitched in red;
Odd pieces of old silverware,
And bits of dainty lace;
The old clock on the mantelpiece
With bruises on its face;
My mother's armless rocking chair,
Her little darning gourd;
A candelabrum made of brass
A rusty bladed sword.

So long these things I love have been a vital part of me,
Without them I am like a ship lost on a windswept sea.