Storing Food in a Basement Velma N. Simonsen Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society

The Latter-day Saints believe that God is as much concerned with the affairs of men today as he was in the days of ancient Israel. And as Joseph was instructed to prepare his people for a day of need, the word of the Lord, coming through his prophets to us today, is to have on hand at least one year's supply of food.
Does this sound like a Herculean task? Do you feel that it is impossible for city folk, living in small houses on limited budgets, to obey this counsel?
We have found that it can be done and it is lots of fun. We first made a list of the foods and the amounts we would need for our family for the year. We included in our storage paper napkins, waxed paper, soap, and other household necessities.
We made our purchases according to our list. Of course, few families can afford to go out and at one time buy a year's supply of food and supplies and store them, but by wise budgeting we can buy a case of food at a time or a sack of flour one week and a quantity of sugar another week.
Some families make a practice of buying two of everything they need, one for immediate use and one for storing. In any event, as you use from your storage supply be sure to replace it so that you may maintain your one year's supply constantly.

My husband and I were both reared in families where it was expedient and natural to store a year's supply of food. Therefore the word "hoarding" has little meaning for us.
We try to keep at least a year's supply of provisions on hand at all times, because we were trained in our youth to do so, and because it is the counsel given us of the Lord through his prophets.
We are a family of six and all the storage space we have is a basement closet and a small fruit room. On shelves, in the closet, we store staples that do not need to be kept too cool, and which keep indefinitely, such as dried beans, split peas, macaroni products, spices, rice, flavoring, soaps, and such.
We find the tin cannister sets that can be bought very cheaply in the dime stores or gallon ice-cream cartons or any cans with tight lids are splendid to store these foods in.

In the fruit room, in order to assure good circulation of air, we cut a hole about 9" x 12" in the wall near the floor; over this we put an open grill. We ran a 12" x 12" pipe from the ceiling of the fruit room between the joists to the outside and put an open grill and screen over both ends of this pipe to keep out bugs and mice.
On the fruit room shelves we keep our home-bottled fruits and vegetables, jams, and jellies. Under the shelves we store the case-lot purchases of canned meat, fish, milk, vegetables, fruit, shortening, flour, cereals, and sugar.
We usually keep five or six sacks of flour on hand at all times and have done so for the past fifteen years and have not had one sack infected with weevil. The "trick" is to make sure one sack of flour does not touch another sack of flour.
To avoid this, when stacking, we put a sack of flour then a sack of sugar then a sack of flour and so on, or we lay some of the flour on top of a case of vegetables. We always put slats of wood between the cement and the articles stored, as the cement has a tendency to "sweat," and the wood keeps the moisture from the stored food.

In the fall of the year we buy three sacks of potatoes, a sack of small size onions for cooking whole (try creaming them with peas or string beans, they are delicious!); a sack of large size onions for slicing, a bushel of carrots, a half-bushel of parsnips, and several bushels of apples.
The potatoes we stand on slats of wood on the fruit room floor. For us, these keep firm and fresh from October until May when the new potatoes come on the market.
The onions we store in the mesh bags in which they are purchased. We make sure the onions are thoroughly dry before storing by leaving them in the garage until there is danger of them freezing, then we hang them from a nail on the wall in the fruit room so they may get better circulation, or just stand the sacks on slats of wood on the fruit room floor.
We check the onions occasionally and discard any that seem to be going soft or spoiling. In this way the onions keep firm and fresh until May.

Storing carrots is a simple process. We wash them, cut off the tops, put them in a creamery can, place the lid on the can loosely, and stand the can on the fruit room floor.
The can works on the same principle as the hydrator in an ice box, keeping the carrots moist and crisp until spring, and very handy to get at. We are always careful that the lid is replaced loosely.

The parsnips are stored the same as the carrots only in a smaller container.
The apples we store in the garage. We put the box of apples inside a larger box with crumpled newspaper between the two boxes and on top; over it all, we fold an old blanket. This is enough insulation to keep the apples from freezing and the low temperatures keep them firm.

In this land of plenty, some may question the necessity of storing food, but no one has ever lost by obeying the counsel of the Lord's anointed and the added convenience and the feeling of security that one obtains from obeying this counsel are well worth the try.
This method of storing food has worked well for us. You may have a better way, but in any event keep at least one year's supply ahead. By so doing you can save money and keep prepared for the unknown future. It can be done and it's lots of fun.

Mirror Caroline Eyring Miner
You are my mirror, Daughter of mine;
Make my reflection with kindliness shine.