Plan to enroll now for BUSINESS TRAINING Fall term begins Sept. 6, 1948 at L. D. S. Business College 5 to 8 P.M.
The fall term offers many opportunities. New classes in shorthand, accounting, typing, character education, and many others will begin the Tuesday following Labor Day.
The records of more than 60 years prove that L.D.S. Business College training pays.
Special rates for returned missionaries.
Write for free literature.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah

[Advertisement showing "1,346 CATALOGUED COLORS"]
THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN
Bennett's PAINT
Bring in a sample of almost any color you want to match ... any color in a fabric, wallpaper, flower or any other object ... and we will match it perfectly in paint.
BENNETT'S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho

Concerning the temporal affairs of the Church and the management of its business interests. This was a period of great growth in Nauvoo, and the Church was fostering many projects for the city's expansion. Toward the end of 1843 he began to show signs of apostacy and associated himself with the enemies of the Prophet and of the saints generally.

The result of this was his excommunication from the Church on April 18, 1844. He soon joined forces with other discontented factions and sponsored the publication of the much discussed Nauvoo Expositor, which contributed so much to the Prophet's assassination. He moved to Wisconsin, where he died on January 19, 1892, still bitter toward his former Prophet and the Latter-day Saints.

Topics for Discussion and Study
1. Read the glorious testimony contained in Doctrine and Covenants section 76:50-24.
2. What factors could lead a man who had received such a wonderful manifestation, as the vision of the three degrees of glory (see 76), to depart from the Church as did Frederick G. Williams?
3. Read a portion from the Inspired Version of the Bible, as contained in Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1 (Matthew 24) and note the improved quality of Joseph Smith's revision.
4. Read the statement of Sidney Rigdon's son John during his interview with President Snow and other Church leaders in Salt Lake City, Improvement Era 3:636-638.

References
Improvement Era, Vol. 3:77, 218, 265, 352, 487, 579, and 636-638.
Improvement Era, Vol. 42:736.
Improvement Era, Vol. 43:206.
Jenson, L.D.S. Biographical Encyclopedia Vol. 1.

SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO.
The new Sears store is completely air conditioned
. . . cool as a canyon breeze
Main or State at 9th South Salt Lake City Park Free
SEARS
Professional and Social Stationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULERS
DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Bickards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah
No Substitutes

In our years of food distribution, we have experienced that Nationally-known brands are better because they are packed to "quality standards" and not merely to sell at a price. We have the wellknown brands you want ... ... not something "just as good" ... and, too, you'll find it costs no more to buy better foods at O.P.S. food stores.
O.P. SKAGGS FOOD SYSTEM STORES

For a Well-balanced Mind—Well-balanced Education
Prospective leaders must be trained for success in their assigned callings, which will enable them to make their greatest contribution to society. The Utah State Agricultural College is sound, well-balanced education, which will fit them to make life a success and a pleasure, both to themselves and the society in which they live.
USAC is located in an ideal college town in beautiful Cache Valley in northern Utah. It is a clean city of fine homes and churches. The L.D.S. Institute of Religion, directed by Dr. Franklin L. West, aids student development.

Sixteen hundred courses are offered in the sixty departments of the following Schools:
Agriculture Forest, Range, and Commerce Wildlife Management Education Home Economics Engineering

FALL QUARTER Registration—September 23-25 Quarter Ends December 17
WINTER QUARTER Registration—January 3-5 Quarter Ends March 18

For Catalog, address the President
UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Logan

The Clock Without Hands
Jennie Scowl Dasenberry

THE other day while walking along the streets of a large city I came across a most extraordinary window display. I will only speak of the thing which stood out more than anything else. It was a clock without hands. I could hear the "tick-tick" of it as plainly as my own heart beat. Inspecting the works more closely, I found that the clock seemed to be in the best of condition, with one exception. Its face had the numbers of the hours, but no hands upon it. As I stood there thinking of the fitting except the clock seemed to be in the best of condition, with one exception. Its face had the numbers and that was the one thing for which the clock had been made. I waited and put the window.
I was not thinking of clocks. I was thinking of people, whose lives are full of motion and activity, but the motion never amounts to anything. The activity never works out in definite achievement. They are like clocks without hands.

As I thought of the people whom I knew, in all walks of life, they started hours and began their activity, the very purpose for which they are in this world. You can hear the "tick-tick" of their lives. But you can never tell the time by them. Their lives are as empty of moral and spiritual meaning as the clock without hands. They are wound up; they are running; but they never indicate the time. The people who indicate time never keep time; they are a part of the waste material of the world.

SUMMER SHINES WITH SILKEN SHOWERS
Helen Martin Horne

Summer shines with silken showers On mountains to the south.
Blends odors from the freshening flowers When evening drops the sun.
From pine-ribbed hills and canyon nooks A pungent smell she takes To scent the breeze that bends the trees, And sports the mountain lakes.

The summer lends to the fall Her colors brightly blended; But artful fall retints them all When summertime is ended.

CINDERELLAS
Katie Harris Lewis

A weed in the moonlight Is lovely to see; And the generous moon Lends beauty to me.

BISHOP HYDE
Michael Burson

It was God's will I led you As it is now his will That calls me from his people For greater service still.

I would be with you longer For I have loved you much, I'd fill our fields and flowers Beneath the sun's warm touch

I would be here to counsel Wherever need might be, Yet I am but the servant And God the seed of me.

But falter not, my loved ones, Although I cannot stay To lead as I have led you— God points a better way.

ONE NAME ? ONE QUALITY ? ONE PRICE
There is only ONE
LESTER Betsy Ross Spinet

Achievement in pianobuilding at its very best ... result of 36 years of uninterrupted experience.

EASY BUDGET TERMS AVAILABLE
Please forward complete information about Lester Betsy Ross Spinets.
Name_________________
Address_______________

FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY
Daynes Music Co.
45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

Near and Sar Mrs. Nellie A. Harter of the Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake, has made a remarkable record in securing 112 Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in a ward having only thirty-seven members of the Society. Six subscriptions were sold to widowers, eight to non-members of the Church, and many were gifts for Christmas, birthdays, weddings, missionaries, shut-ins, and widows. Mrs. Harter has a sister Regine Nilsen, of Horten, Norway, whom she has never seen, but Mrs. Nilsen is a reader of The Relief Society Magazine. She saw Mrs. Harter's picture with a group of Magazine representatives (April 1947) and was delighted with this pleasant visit through the pages of the Magazine. Mrs. Harter wrote her sister: "This Relief Society Magazine has made it possible for us to join hands across the sea, and even though we have not seen one another in person, we have the same warm, affectionate, sisterly love in our hearts which will bind us together always."

Edith Russel, a young English writer, now living in Utah, is the author of "The Russels Did Not Go to Church," a three part story beginning in this issue. Miss Russell says: "When I was nine years old we moved to a tiny house in the village of Cottingley, close to the fringe of the Haworth moors and a mere five miles from the haunted shell of 'Wuthering Heights' itself. One year after my baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I became a missionary and was honored by a call to become the only woman ever to edit Millennial Star. During these years, my country was at war, and London, our headquarters, proved a noisy, somewhat dangerous adventure. Then—came an invitation to leave England for the U.S.A. To attend an American university, and I to whom school had always been the privilege of 'the other fellow,' thought I heard the angels sing!"

Page 576

Deone R. Sutherland, author of "Aunt Millenium," a daughter of the poet Linnie Fisher Robinson, is one of the most promising of Utah's young literary women. By editorial request Deone writes: "I graduated from the University of Utah in 1945 after having edited the literary Magazine and participating in some drama. I continued teaching in the English department, freshman English, for two years. In the summer of 1947 I attended the University of Iowa and enjoyed the writer's workshop very much, but I returned in the fall to marry Harold Pratt Sutherland in the Salt Lake Temple. We have lived in Beaver for the past eight months and Harold has taught English in the high school. As to the future well, we're going to Stanford this summer."

I wish to thank you for the promptness of the Magazine which reaches me way up here in Sweden. During the two years of my mission I have enjoyed it immensely. The Relief Society of Whittier Ward, Salt Lake City, gave me a two year's subscription as a present when I left. I have translated many features from the Magazine in Swedish and it has helped me in Relief Society work and missionary work in general. It might interest you to know that my husband finds the Magazine just as interesting.

Amy Lundevall, Olaigatan, Orebro, Sweden

Sister Lillian Nielsen of Three Forks, Montana, has bought material and has recently made 64 pieces of clothing for children between six months and four years old. Because she lives on a farm, miles away from a branch of the Church, Sister Nielsen cannot attend meetings, but she can and does follow the work of Relief Society through reading the Magazine. She is the mother of a large family and yet she finds time to sew for others and to contribute many hours of unselfish service.

TEACH THE LIFE OF CHRIST WITH PICTURES

Four sets, comprising 63 four color 19" x 23" pictures
Set One: (15 pictures) Nativity, Shepherds, Wise men, Babe in the Temple, Flight into Egypt, Boy Jesus in the Temple, Among the Doctors, Temptations, Miracles: Healing the Woman, Walks on the Water, Dumb Man Healed, Deaf Man Healed, Blind Man Healed, Draught of Fishes, Calms the Storm.
Set Two: (16 pictures) Feeding Five Thousand, Heals the Lepers, Man at the Pool, Jairus' Daughter, Lazarus; Parables: Sower, Leaven, Wheat and Tares, Pounds and Talents, Ten Virgins, Prodigal Son, Good Samaritan, Pharisees, Fishermen, Disciples in Grain Field.
Set Three: (16 pictures) Jesus Chooses Disciples, Clears the Temple, Children, (Hoffman), (Plockhorst), Consider the Lilies, Mary and Martha, Speaks from the Boat, Woman at the Well, Other Sheep, Nicodemus, Peter's Confession, Peace Be Unto This House, Rich Young Ruler, Come Unto Me, Twelve Sent Forth, Transfiguration.
Set Four: (16 pictures) Entering Jerusalem, Last Supper, Gethsemane, Praying, Arrest of Jesus, Jesus and Peter, Jesus and Pilate, Pilate Washes His Hands, Before Caiaphas, Guards Cast Lots, He Is Risen, On Way to Emmaus, At Emmaus, Appears to Apostles, Great Commission, The Ascension.

Each Set $2.00

DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah

Please send me LIFE OF CHRIST picture sets as follows: At $2.00 each.
Oe Address......Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers

U.S. POSTAGE 2 
Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690

SYMBUL OF THRIFT
Among priceless heritages left by our pioneer mothers is the custom of providing a bounteous supply of fruits for the long winter months. In this generation, the housewife who stocks her shelves with jars of choice fresh fruits, jams, and jellies, preserved and sweetened with pure, home-produced sugar, has learned well the lesson of prudent care for her family. Perfect for canning, cooking, freezing, or table use.

UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY