Title: Alta Jensen Vance
Author: Madeleine P. Stevens
Page: 514
Section: SPECIAL FEATURES

Alta Jensen Vance Madeline P. Stevens Secretary-Treasurer, Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society IN the Book of Mosiah in the Book of Mormon we read "that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." This true principle has been adhered to since her early teens by Alta J. Vance who was appointed to the Relief Society general board on May 26, 1948. Born the daughter of Amanda Jane Clement and Ephraim Jensen, at Wales, Sanpete County, Utah, she comes of stalwart pioneer ancestry. Her mother passed away when she was twelve days old and she was reared by her father's sister in Fairview until she was six years of age. At this time, her father re-married and she returned to live with him and receive her education. Graduating from Moroni High School, she came to Salt Lake City to attend the Latter-day Saints Business College and continued her courses from the University of Utah. Sister Vance has given service in all of the auxiliary organizations of the Church. In the Relief Society, she was literature class leader in the Harvard Ward; social science leader of Mt. Olympus Ward, later serving as a stake board member in this capacity in Big Cottonwood Stake. As president of Mt. Olympus Ward Relief Society, she served from August 29, 1942, until her appointment as Relief Society stake president of Big Cottonwood Stake, March 18, 1945. ALTA JENSEN VANCE NEW BOARD MEMBERS

In 1939, Brother Vance left on a two-year mission to Canada and during his absence the responsibility of business and family fell to Sister Vance. She was very successful in both these undertakings. She is the mother of two fine sons, Roland and Byron, and a very gracious daughter, Loretta. Sister Vance has remarkable organizational ability, wisdom, caution, and a deep feeling of compassion and tolerance. In her humility and steadfastness, hers will be a service of love and joy in connection with her general board work.

Christine Hinckley Robinson
Rae B. Barker
Former Member, Relief Society General Board

PREPAREDNESS invites opportunity and responsibility. This is evidenced in the appointment of Christine Hinckley Robinson to membership on the general board of Relief Society, May 26, 1948. A daughter of Bryant S. Hinckley and Christine Johnson, she responded to the refining influence of the gospel as her parents and grandparents lived it in strength and beauty.

When a baby, Christine's mother died. With the close companionship of her sister Carol, she matured in an atmosphere of love and artistry in the home of her maternal grandparents, Brother and Sister Niels Johnson of Provo, Utah. The Provo schools, and eventually the Brigham Young University, launched her on an extensive scholastic program which was continued in New York after her marriage to O. Preston Robinson. It was at the B. Y. U. that the two met.

Since then they have achieved success and wide recognition together—she in interior decorating, he in marketing. CHRISTINE HINCKLEY ROBINSON

Sister Robinson was an instructor in the Foster School of Fine Arts in New York City. Together, they wrote the textbook Successful Retail Salesmanship. Teamwork stands out as their most enviable accomplishments, each complimenting and magnifying the other. Such co-operation will be a real asset in Christ's new Relief Society assignment.

Her Church activities have consistently paralleled her varied civic, academic, and creative work. With experience in all the Church auxiliaries, the emphasis has been in Relief Society. For fifteen years she served successfully as ward class leader, counselor, and in the presidency of the New York Stake Relief Society.

The three Robinson children, Miriam, Bruce Hinckley, and Christine Carol, find ample opportunity for individuality in the midst of their mother's artistic expression in home and garden.

Endowed with deep spiritual insight and keen creative intellect, Sister Robinson has developed increasing capacity for leadership. She genuinely loves people and loves life. She inspires faith because she relies on faith. She builds strength in others because she has strong convictions.

The vitality of her testimony of the gospel was recently demonstrated in a practical way. She and her family, after living for nearly twenty years in New York, chose to leave bright fields of success to make their home in Utah with the body of the Church.

As a member of the general board, Sister Robinson will be a power for good. Her inheritance, experience, and training eminently fit her for service in this great organization. She has, in a high degree, the fundamental requirements for effective Relief Society work—a love for, and sympathetic understanding of people, with an ardent desire to help. Artistic in temperament, clear in her thinking, warm-hearted and generous, she makes friends and promotes every cause in which she engages.

Alberta Huish Christensen
Vesta P. Crawford
Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine

ON June 2, 1948, a gifted and gracious woman, Alberta Huish Christensen, was appointed a member of the general board of Relief Society.

Berta, as she is known to her friends, was born in Springlake, Utah, a daughter of James William Huish and Mary Elizabeth Fillmore. One of the younger members of a large and talented family, she was educated in the schools of Utah and received her A.B. degree in English literature at Brigham Young University, where she was an honor student, active in dramatics, and editor of the literary magazine.

Her service in Church organizations began with Sunday School teaching and has continued through nearly all the auxiliaries, including executive positions in ward and stake Relief Societies. She was also a counselor in New York Stake Y.W.M.I.A. and a stake missionary, serving to Salt Lake City. Berta has ably served as a member of Emigration Stake Relief Society board and has contributed greatly to the many outstanding activities which this stake has so successfully carried out.

NEW BOARD MEMBERS

Actively interested in genealogical research, Berta has completed many records for her family. She has exceptional organizing ability which enables her to use her time and energy to best advantage with grace and dignity. Blessed with many artistic gifts, Berta has been an award winner in several Eliza R. Snow poem contests and has contributed frontispiece poems of exceptional quality to the Magazine. Her literary compositions have appeared in many other publications, and musical arrangements have been made for a number of her poems. She is well known as a reader of poetry, and her painting, in several mediums, is of exceptional originality and reveals exquisite technique.

"Multiple-gifted" applies to Berta, for she has additional talents in the domestic and fine arts. Berta's husband, Dr. Carl J. Christensen, a former bishop of Queen's Ward, New York, and a member of the stake presidency there, is now Dean of the School of Mines and Mineral Industries at the University of Utah. The Christensens have four children: a married daughter, Mary Ellen Snow; Berta Mae, a student at Brigham Young University; and two young sons, Carl H. and James H.

The appointment of Berta to the general board will give the women of the Church an opportunity to enjoy the leadership of a competent and lovely woman who has demonstrated her ability to place first things first. Her three-fold objective for a well-integrated life is expressed through her devotion to the practical phases of the home, self-expression through the creative arts, and spiritual enrichment through Church activity.

PETITION

Eunice J. Miles
Help us, Lord, to love and pray
Planning for the common good,
Gaining courage to create
Lasting bonds of sisterhood.

Relief Society Building News

RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND REACHES 76% OF QUOTA

The shaded part of the thermometer on the corner of this drawing of the proposed new building represents 76% of the total fund which had been received in the general offices on June 23, 1948. The annual General Relief Society Conference will convene on September 29 and 30. The morning session on September 30 will be held in the Tabernacle from 10 a.m. to 12 noon and will feature the Relief Society Building Fund program. It is hoped there will be an official representative from each of the stakes of Zion, and from many missions, so that recognition may be given to every stake and mission which completes its quota. At that session announcement will be made of the amount of money which has been collected.

It is the earnest prayer of the general board that every stake in the Church may be thus recognized, and all Relief Society members may be listed as contributors.

The lists of contributions will not be called for until after the completion of the fund-raising period, allowing each sister the full fund-raising year in which to make her quota payment, and Special and Memorial Gifts. As the time draws to a close, increasingly there are Memorial Gifts being made. Sometimes this is done by individuals. Other times families unite in making one large Memorial Gift for a beloved mother or grandmother. The gifts are credited either in the ward in which the individual making the gift lives or in the ward in which the person memorialized lived. In one instance a gift was made by a great-granddaughter to the ward in Salt Lake where her great-grandmother had lived who had joined the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Every daughter and daughter-in-law in some families is making an individual Memorial Gift to her mother so that each one's name appears with that of the mother. Wherever the gifts are made, both the name of the donor and the name of the one being memorialized will be placed in the cornerstone.

According to the present plan, a great book will be made containing the names of all who contribute to the Relief Society building, to be preserved in a special case in the building which will stand as a lasting tribute to the faithfulness of Relief Society members today.

Missions Which Have Sent In 100% Building Quotas:
Northern California Mission
Eastern States Mission
Hawaiian Mission
Samoan Mission
New Zealand Mission

Stakes Which Have Sent In 100% Building Quotas:
South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
San Diego Stake (California)
Wells Stake (Utah)
Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming)
Granite Stake (Utah)
North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Emigration Stake (Utah)
Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
Nevada Stake (Nevada and Utah)
Utah Stake (Utah)
Seattle Stake (Washington)
South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Juarez Stake (Mexico)
Florida Stake (Florida)
Temple View Stake (Utah)
Bear River Stake (Utah)
Parowan Stake (Utah)
Liberty Stake (Utah)
Smithfield Stake (Utah)
Sugar House Stake (Utah)
Salt Lake Stake (Utah)
San Luis Stake (Colorado)
Oneida Stake (Idaho)
Tooele Stake (Utah)
San Juan Stake (Utah)
Sevier Stake (Utah)
Grant Stake (Utah)
East Provo Stake (Utah)
American Falls Stake (Idaho)
Oquirrh Stake (Utah)
East Rigby Stake (Idaho)
San Bernardino Stake (California)

Branches (In Missions) Which Have Completed Their Membership Building Quotas (Since publication of the list in the July Magazine, and prior to July 8, 1948):
Akron Branch, Northern States
Ames Branch, Northern States
Ashland Branch, East Central States
Barntford Branch, Canadian
Barstow Branch, California
Bayou La Croix Branch, Southern States
Beaumont Branch, California
Blythe Branch, California
Cambridge City Branch, Northern States
Canon City Branch, Western States
Carlsbad Branch, California
Center Point Branch, Northern States
Cherry Grove Branch, Western Canadian
Cleburne Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Columbus Branch, Northern States (These are two branches by the same name)
Craig Branch, Western States
Corpus Christi Branch, Texas
Dallas Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Des Moines Branch, Northern States
Duluth Branch, North Central States
Elsinore Branch, California
Enoch Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Evansville Branch, Northern States
Farmer City Branch, Northern States
Fort Lupton Branch, Western States
Fort William Branch, North Central States
Fort Worth Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Fremont Branch, Western States
Gallup Branch, Western States
Gilmer Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Glasgow Branch, North Central States
Glenwood Springs Branch, Western States
Gonzales Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Grand Forks Branch, North Central States
Greeley Branch, Western States
Jefferson City Branch, Central States
Kilgore Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Laguna Beach Branch, California
Lancaster Branch, California
Lansing Branch, Northern States
Lewiston Branch, North Central States
Lincoln Branch, Western States
Logan Branch, East Central States
Louisville Branch, East Central States
Madison Branch, Northern States
Mankato Branch, North Central States
Marion Branch, Northern States
Medicine Hat Branch, Western Canadian
Meeker Branch, Western States
Minneapolis Branch, North Central States
Muncie Branch, Northern States
Needles Branch, California
Newport News Branch, Central Atlantic States
North Indianapolis Branch, Northern States
Omaha Branch, Western States
Orlando Branch, Southern States
Purdue Branch, Northern States
Pride Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Quincy Branch, Northern States
Rochester Branch, North Central States
Saginaw Branch, Northern States
San Antonio Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Santa Paula-Fillmore Branch, California
Sarasota Branch, Southern States
Savannah Branch, Southern States
Sheboygan Branch, Northern States
Sheridan Branch, Western States
Silver Park Branch, Western Canadian
Sioux Falls Branch, North Central States
South Bend Branch, Northern States
South Indianapolis Branch, Northern States
Trona Branch, California
Tyler Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Ventura Branch, California
Waco Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Williston Branch, North Central States
Wichita Falls Branch, Texas-Louisiana

Wards and Branches (In Stakes) Which Have Completed Their Membership Quotas (Since publication of the list in the July Magazine, and prior to July 8, 1948):
Aberdeen Ward, American Falls
Aetna Ward, Alberta
Alhambra Ward, Pasadena
Augusta Branch, South Carolina
Balboa Ward, San Francisco
Ballard Ward, Roosevelt
Baltimore Ward, Washington
Bay Ridge Branch, New York
Benson Ward, East Cache
Boise Third Ward, Boise
Bountiful First Ward, South Davis
Bountiful Second Ward, South Davis
Bountiful Fourth Ward, South Davis
Bonneville Ward, East Provo
Bonneville Park Ward, Ben Lomond
Brigham City First Ward, South Box Elder
Brooklyn Ward, New York
Bunkerville Ward, Moapa
Burley First Ward, Burley
Burley Fourth Ward, Burley
Burlingame Ward, Palo Alto
Burlington Ward, Big Horn
Burton Ward, South Salt Lake
Centinela Ward, Inglewood
Central Ward, St. Joseph
Central Ward, South Sevier
Central Park Ward, South Salt Lake
Centerville First Ward, Davis
Charleston Ward, Wasatch
Chico Ward, Gridley
Circleville Ward, Garfield
Cody Branch, Big Horn
Cokeville Ward, Montpelier
Colonial Heights Ward, Portland
Colonial Hills Ward, Hillside
Colton Ward, San Bernardino
Columbia Ward, South Carolina
Coutts Branch, Taylor
Dishman Ward, Spokane
Dragerton Branch, Carbon
East Midvale First Ward, East Jordan
East Midvale Second Ward, East Jordan
Eastmont Ward, Pasadena
Eden Ward, St. Joseph
Ely Ward, Nevada
Elysian Park Ward, San Fernando
Ephraim North Ward, South Sanpete

Smithfield Stake (Utah) Completes Building Fund Quota:
Left to right: Elizabeth P. Astle, Stake Secretary-Treasurer; Lucille Erickson, President, Smithfield First Ward Relief Society; Viola B. Jones, President, Newton Ward; Christina Blanchard, President, Smithfield Third Ward; Sarah Petty, President, Amalga Ward; Mary P. Thompson, President, Clarkston Ward; Vera Roskelley, President, Smithfield Fourth Ward; Lily Hansen, President, Smithfield Second Ward; Anne M. Farr, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society.

The ward presidents are seen receiving their building fund certificates. This event was part of the closing day social, June 1, 1948, and for the occasion a beautiful and appropriate poem, written by Sister Elizabeth P. Astle, was read.

Joseph Fullerton Ward, Long Beach Garfield Ward, Oquirrh Garrison Branch, Nevada Georgetown Ward, Montpelier Glenwood Ward, Sevier Greenbelt Branch, Washington Green River Ward, Lyman Greenville Ward, South Carolina Harrisville Ward, Farr West Haven Ward, South Salt Lake Heber Fourth Ward, Wasatch Henderson Ward, Moapa Highland Ward, Mount Ogden Hilliard Ward, Woodruff Hood River Ward, Portland Huntsville Ward, North Weber Jameston Ward, Shelley Jensen Ward, Uintah Kaysville First Ward, Davis Kelly-Toponce Ward, Idaho Kline Branch, Young Koosharem Ward, Sevier Lake Point Ward, Grantsville Laurelcrest-Beacon Ward, Hillside Lehi Second Ward, Lehi Lehi Third Ward, Lehi Logan Seventh Ward, Mount Logan Logan Square Ward, Chicago Lorraine Ward, Grant Luna Ward, St. Johns Magna Ward, Oquirrh Magrath First Ward, Taylor Magrath Second Ward, Taylor Malad Second Ward, Malad Manila Ward, Timpanogos Menan Ward, Rigby McCall Branch, Weiser Meridian Ward, Boise Mesa First Ward, Maricopa Mesa Fourth Ward, Maricopa Mesa Sixth Ward, Maricopa Mesa Eighth Ward, Maricopa Midvale First Ward, East Jordan Midway First Ward, Wasatch Milford Ward, Beaver Milo Ward, East Rigby Milwaukee South Branch, Chicago Milwaukee Ward, Chicago Modesto Ward, Sacramento Montpelier Third Ward, Montpelier Monroe South Ward, South Sevier Morgan Ward, Morgan Moscow Ward, Spokane Mound Fort Ward, Farr West Mound Valley Ward, Bannock Mt. Olympus Ward, Big Cottonwood Mt. Pleasant South Ward, North Sanpete Mt. Trumbull Ward, St. George Murtaugh Ward, Twin Falls Naglee Park Branch, Palo Alto Nampa First Ward, Nampa Nampa Second Ward, Nampa Naples Ward, Uintah Newdale Ward, North Rexburg Nibley Ward, Hyrum North Logan, East Cache North Shore Ward, Chicago Nounan Ward, Montpelier Oakland Ward, Oakland Ogden Fourth Ward, North Weber Ogden Sixth Ward, North Weber Ogden Eighteenth Ward, South Ogden Ogden Twenty-fourth Ward, Mount Ogden Ogden Twenty-seventh Ward, South Ogden Ogden Thirty-second Ward, Weber Otto Branch, Big Horn Overton Ward, Moapa Ovid Ward, Bear Lake Palmyra Ward, Palmyra Panguitch South Ward, Panguitch Paradise Ward, Hyrum Park City First Ward, South Summit Parley's Ward, Highland Peterson Ward, Morgan Price Second Ward, North Carbon Price Third Ward, Carbon Pocatello Second Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Seventh Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Twelfth Ward, Pocatello Pomona Ward, San Bernardino Provo Seventh Ward, Provo Provo Eighth Ward, East Provo Provo Ninth Ward, East Provo Prove Tenth Ward, Provo Provo Eleventh Ward, West Utah Provo Twelfth Ward, East Provo Racine Branch, Chicago Raymond Second Ward, Taylor Redondo Ward, Inglewood Reseda Ward, San Fernando Richmond Ward, Washington Rigby First Ward, Rigby Rigby Third Ward, East Rigby Rigby Fourth Ward, Rigby Riverside Ward, Riverside Riverton Second Ward, West Jordan Riverview Ward, Pioneer Rockland Ward, American Falls Roosevelt Ward, Roosevelt Roosevelt Second Ward, Roosevelt Rosecrest Ward, East Mill Creek Roslyn Heights Ward, Highland Rupert First Ward, Minidoka St. George Fourth Ward, St. George Sandy Second Ward, Mount Jordan San Fernando Ward, San Fernando San Francisco Ward, San Francisco San Leandro Ward, Oakland Santa Monica Ward, Inglewood Shelley Third Ward, Shelley Society Hill Branch, South Carolina Spanish Fork First Ward, Palmyra Spencer Ward, Oquirrh Spokane Central Ward, Spokane Springfield Ward, American Falls Springview Ward, Grant Sunset Ward, San Francisco Superior Ward, Lyman Timpanogos Ward, Sharon Thatcher Ward, Bannock Thirty-first Ward, Park Thirty-third Ward, Bonneville Twin Groves Ward, Yellowstone Twin Falls Second Ward, Twin Falls Tyrells Lake Branch, Taylor Venice Ward, Sevier Vernal Second Ward, Uintah Victorville Branch, San Bernardino Wallace Branch, Spokane Wandamere Ward, Grant Whittier Ward, Pasadena Wellsville First Ward, Hyrum Woodland Branch, Sacramento Woodville Ward, Shelley Wymount Branch, East Provo The Russells Did Not Go to Church A Three-Part Story. CHAPTER 1 Edith Russell, elder brother Michael was reading, which means that for purposes of ordinary communication, he was quite dead. He was not merely engrossed, he was oblivious. My mother, having passed him four times on her way to and from the kitchen, and having accommodatingly climbed over his protruding legs four times in so doing, endeavored to call to his attention the great desirability of his retiring to his room, there to continue his perusal of great literature with less inconvenience to the family at large. Michael gave no indication of having heard. My mother continued her trips to the kitchen. She returned carrying a large bowl of hot water. She said no more, but a moment later Michael drew in his legs with a voice of protest. "Really, Mother! Can't a fellow...? I was reading about those chaps called Mormons," he expostulated, as though that should explain his intense preoccupation. "Michael!" My mother was horrified. "Those dreadful people! Why, I remember when I was a girl, they visited even the best parts of town, trying to induce nice girls to leave their homes and go with them to Salt Lake City." Michael grinned. "Oh, Mother, come now!" he protested, gently disbelieving. "It's true. I never saw one myself, but at the time it was on everybody's lips." Michael was turning the pages of the book, looking for some passage. "Zane Grey," he said, "thinks they are a decent people." My mother spread her feathers and exuded indignation. "Michael, I shall appreciate it if you will not indulge in such literature in the future. I do not like it!" The little woman resumed her interrupted perambulations to and from the kitchen with renewed vigor, her face a mask of disapproval. Michael looked at me, then at the book now lying in the chair. Then he shrugged and went out. SIX years later the second world war was moving a bloody finger across the map of Europe. Michael was in the East; his place at home was taken by my younger brother, Antony. We led quiet, uneventful lives in the small, sturdy cottage situated on the fringe of the lonely Haworth moors. The peaceful monotony of our existence might be attributed to the fact that although we lived at least on the outskirts of the village, we were not accepted as villagers. My mother was a "city woman." We children had been born in the city, and after fifteen years of living in the village, we were still regarded with curiosity and the sort of aloof respect accorded to strangers. Furthermore, at no time in our lives had we made any attempt to enter that little circle of social life and common purpose, represented by the church. The Russells did not go to church. They never had, unless impelled there by new life or its surcease, or the occasional determination of a Russell bride to have the church solemnize her matrimonial contract. We did not go to church as we did not get drunk. The family, in either case, simply would not have condoned it. Ours was a happy family life, undeviating, unimaginative, smooth. We enjoyed solidarity as a family, but it was the nature of each of us to like to be alone. Antony rode a great deal, as a friendly farmer was not averse to letting him exercise his horses. He was sixteen and blond, with all the energy of a colt. He would be gone all day, then come home at nightfall to eat an enormous supper in the kitchen. My mother worried about him if he was warm enough, if he was safe. But he was like thin whipcord.

He hated any kind of fuss, and was as sensitive as a girl. Michael sweated with the Royal Air Force in Cairo. For my part I had my room and the lanes and fens surrounding the moors. I read a great deal, alone in my room. My small chamber was recognized as sacred, and no one, not even my mother, trespassed there. Michael had painted the walls when it was first given to me, and once when I was sick, he had come in to visit me. Antony was oddly shy of it, though it was not a very feminine room. It was my sanctuary. I intimately lived there.

Walked a great deal and usually alone. About a mile from the house was the parish church of St. Matthews and unfailingly in my walks, I went past the old place, a trifle curious as to what went on behind the stout Gothic walls. I was sometimes tempted to go in. On Tuesday evening the villagers would be at choir practice and the sound of their strong, country voices would float out into the mellow dusk. I used to think, vaguely, of our family conception of church people—narrow, vindictive, transcendently uncharitable. Ostensibly, they were the reason we did not go to church. We had heard that the vicar himself was an irascible gentleman, a Welshman, much given to fire and brimstone, and to denouncing the villagers who did not attend Holy Communion as devils incarnate. The much-maligned villagers had stoned him once, and the big, helmeted police force had broken up the crowd.

"Religion? Bah!" was the unvoiced opinion of our house. What did religion engender but strife and bad feeling? What emotions did it inspire other than hatred and malice and resentment? Honor thy father as well as thy mother, the commandments said. But my father had not inspired honor in his children. He had slipped out of our lives before even our memories could claim him. Religion spelled confusion.

The Russells did not go to church.

But in my walks, the old church of St. Matthews held a strange fascination for me. Walking home across the fields from Henwden, I would mount the hill and see it lying there in the valley, oddly like a jewel in the hollow of a hand. The dying sun would be caught in its turrets; its leaded windows would flash gold, burn somberly, then fade like the embers of an untended fire.

ONE evening during the second summer of the war, I stopped at the edge of the church, ostensibly to admire the long, yellow tassels of the laburnum, but actually, my attention was caught by the playing of a Bach fugue on the organ. There was no one about, and quickly I crossed the wide burial ground and pushed open the immense door under the west tower.

My first impression was one of trapped sunlight—great slanting pillars of it, made tangible and golden by an omnipresent dust. My next was one of loftiness, spaciousness, supplemented by the grand austerity of Bach.

The organist, an old man I had seen often in the village, turned his head as I entered, but returned immediately to his playing. I was glad. My temerity frightened even myself and I had no wish to exchange pleasantries.

I entered a pew just within the door and sat down. I wanted to analyze myself; to say to myself, I am in church. This is St. Matthews. I am in church, and to see how it feels.

I was disloyal, of course. The Russells did not go to church. My mother and Michael and Antony, too, would think me confoundedly odd to have come here. Why had I come? I didn't know. The music, perhaps. Curiosity.

I sat for a little while, letting my senses stray into the crannies of this adventure. The organist changed to Brahms. He played very softly. It occurred to me that in church it was only polite to pray. To say nothing would be like ignoring your host. But the idea embarrassed me. I had no idea what people said to God. It was evident, though, that in church one could not be informal with the Almighty.

I looked at the altar for possible inspiration, at the great brass cross and the purple velvet runner on which were embroidered the letters I.H.S. "In his service," perhaps they meant. I looked up at the remote, dome-like ceiling, upon which the plaster had begun to crack, and felt the immense loneliness and solitude of the place. But no words came.

THE pulpit was laved by a sea of empty pews. The man at the organ ceased playing, suddenly, in the middle of a bar, gathered up his music, and disappeared through a side door. The silence was unexpected and awful. How did one pray in church? What did one say? I had a feeling God was waiting, implacably waiting.

There was a maxim in the family about courtesy—"Courtesy costs nothing." One should be courteous to one's host, even if he happens to be God.

Awkwardly, I slipped to my knees. The quiet pressed down on me, oppressive and weighted with awe. 526 I put my hands together and closed my eyes tightly. "Dear God," I said, "forgive me for disturbing you..." Nothing else. Nothing else would come. I rose and hurried down the aisle, pushing open the great door beneath the west tower. A few seconds more and I was in the mild stillness of the churchyard again. The church was behind me, massive, silent, empty, yet breathing!

Michael would laugh when they wrote to tell him I had gone to church. They would all think it so funny. Perhaps it was. Perhaps I should laugh, too. I rallied all my sense of humor, but fully marshalled, it brought no laughter to my lips. A sense of sadness oppressed me and an unaccustomed sensation of unrest. The feeling remained with me that God was waiting, waiting. And his patience was infinite.

I hurried my footsteps up the hill toward home. The cottage stood on the crest, solid, old as the church, a haven of comfort. My mother sat before the fire, knitting a gray thing for Antony. She looked up as I went in. "Mother," I said, and my voice was that of the penitent before his confessor. "Mother, I have been to church!" My mother put down her knitting.

(To be continued)

ESSENTIALS

Alice Whitson Norton

I love the things with which I've lived
Throughout my entire life,
Like grandma's quaint old soup tureen,
And granddad's carving knife;
My father's pewter shaving mug
An old four-poster bed,
A comfort made from scraps of silk,
And brier-stitched in red;
Odd pieces of old silverware,
And bits of dainty lace;
The old clock on the mantelpiece
With bruises on its face;
My mother's armless rocking chair,
Her little darning gourd;
A candelabrum made of brass
A rusty bladed sword.

So long these things I love have been a vital part of me,
Without them I am like a ship lost on a windswept sea.
Storing Food in a Basement Velma N. Simonsen Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society

The Latter-day Saints believe that God is as much concerned with the affairs of men today as he was in the days of ancient Israel. And as Joseph was instructed to prepare his people for a day of need, the word of the Lord, coming through his prophets to us today, is to have on hand at least one year's supply of food.
Does this sound like a Herculean task? Do you feel that it is impossible for city folk, living in small houses on limited budgets, to obey this counsel?
We have found that it can be done and it is lots of fun. We first made a list of the foods and the amounts we would need for our family for the year. We included in our storage paper napkins, waxed paper, soap, and other household necessities.
We made our purchases according to our list. Of course, few families can afford to go out and at one time buy a year's supply of food and supplies and store them, but by wise budgeting we can buy a case of food at a time or a sack of flour one week and a quantity of sugar another week.
Some families make a practice of buying two of everything they need, one for immediate use and one for storing. In any event, as you use from your storage supply be sure to replace it so that you may maintain your one year's supply constantly.

My husband and I were both reared in families where it was expedient and natural to store a year's supply of food. Therefore the word "hoarding" has little meaning for us.
We try to keep at least a year's supply of provisions on hand at all times, because we were trained in our youth to do so, and because it is the counsel given us of the Lord through his prophets.
We are a family of six and all the storage space we have is a basement closet and a small fruit room. On shelves, in the closet, we store staples that do not need to be kept too cool, and which keep indefinitely, such as dried beans, split peas, macaroni products, spices, rice, flavoring, soaps, and such.
We find the tin cannister sets that can be bought very cheaply in the dime stores or gallon ice-cream cartons or any cans with tight lids are splendid to store these foods in.

In the fruit room, in order to assure good circulation of air, we cut a hole about 9" x 12" in the wall near the floor; over this we put an open grill. We ran a 12" x 12" pipe from the ceiling of the fruit room between the joists to the outside and put an open grill and screen over both ends of this pipe to keep out bugs and mice.
On the fruit room shelves we keep our home-bottled fruits and vegetables, jams, and jellies. Under the shelves we store the case-lot purchases of canned meat, fish, milk, vegetables, fruit, shortening, flour, cereals, and sugar.
We usually keep five or six sacks of flour on hand at all times and have done so for the past fifteen years and have not had one sack infected with weevil. The "trick" is to make sure one sack of flour does not touch another sack of flour.
To avoid this, when stacking, we put a sack of flour then a sack of sugar then a sack of flour and so on, or we lay some of the flour on top of a case of vegetables. We always put slats of wood between the cement and the articles stored, as the cement has a tendency to "sweat," and the wood keeps the moisture from the stored food.

In the fall of the year we buy three sacks of potatoes, a sack of small size onions for cooking whole (try creaming them with peas or string beans, they are delicious!); a sack of large size onions for slicing, a bushel of carrots, a half-bushel of parsnips, and several bushels of apples.
The potatoes we stand on slats of wood on the fruit room floor. For us, these keep firm and fresh from October until May when the new potatoes come on the market.
The onions we store in the mesh bags in which they are purchased. We make sure the onions are thoroughly dry before storing by leaving them in the garage until there is danger of them freezing, then we hang them from a nail on the wall in the fruit room so they may get better circulation, or just stand the sacks on slats of wood on the fruit room floor.
We check the onions occasionally and discard any that seem to be going soft or spoiling. In this way the onions keep firm and fresh until May.

Storing carrots is a simple process. We wash them, cut off the tops, put them in a creamery can, place the lid on the can loosely, and stand the can on the fruit room floor.
The can works on the same principle as the hydrator in an ice box, keeping the carrots moist and crisp until spring, and very handy to get at. We are always careful that the lid is replaced loosely.

The parsnips are stored the same as the carrots only in a smaller container.
The apples we store in the garage. We put the box of apples inside a larger box with crumpled newspaper between the two boxes and on top; over it all, we fold an old blanket. This is enough insulation to keep the apples from freezing and the low temperatures keep them firm.

In this land of plenty, some may question the necessity of storing food, but no one has ever lost by obeying the counsel of the Lord's anointed and the added convenience and the feeling of security that one obtains from obeying this counsel are well worth the try.
This method of storing food has worked well for us. You may have a better way, but in any event keep at least one year's supply ahead. By so doing you can save money and keep prepared for the unknown future. It can be done and it's lots of fun.

Mirror Caroline Eyring Miner
You are my mirror, Daughter of mine;
Make my reflection with kindliness shine.

Storing Food in a Two-Room Apartment Esther Clark Naylor

In the matter of storing food in my small, heated apartment I have been rather successful. To do this I have had to use care, when the heat was on in the winter months, to select an outside wall or corner of the rooms where there are no heated pipes in the wall or the floor, to stack the cases of food against the wall or in the corner.

Then in the summertime the food should be moved to an inside wall or closet, the coolest place in the room.

In this way I have been able to keep the food until it was used up, usually from two to three years. I make my plans to store a two-year supply every summer.

The canned foods stored consist of string beans, peas, corn, tomatoes (if I do not home can the tomatoes), tomato soup, vegetable soup, grapefruit, canned milk, and honey, with some canned meat and fish. The canned milk should be turned over every week or two. By doing this, milk can be kept for at least one year. Of course, dried beans and rice will keep indefinitely. I am now using beans and rice that were purchased about six years ago. However, the rice must be watched to avoid the weevil getting into it. I think the sealed package would be the safest, although I have been successful in storing the loose rice, by putting it in very thick paper bags and placing these bags in a very heavy seamless sack and tying each sack tightly.

Butter also can be stored for at least one year if kept in sealed bottles in the refrigerator. Before storing, melt the butter over heat that is hot enough to send the curd or whey to the bottom and then pour the pure butter fat into a well-sterilized bottle, and seal. Care should be taken that no curd goes into the bottle. There is no waste in this method, as the curd or whey can be used in cookie making.

In storing home-canned fruits, such as peaches, applesauce, plums, etc., I have used the same method of storage as for the storage of canned foods. I keep one year's supply ahead, sometimes more. The jams and jellies I store in my cupboards, but I always seal the jams as I do the fresh fruit.

I haven't been very successful in storing cheese for a very long period of time. I have kept flour successfully by lining a wall behind a door with brown paper and stacking flour in sacks, surrounding each sack with brown paper. It kept for over a year.

In planning a storage for a single person in a two-room apartment it is helpful to estimate food needs. A can of peas will last for four meals; a one-quart bottle of fruit will last for five meals; a large can of tomatoes will provide a serving for each of five meals.

Page 529

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1888
"For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NaTIONs"
THE TWENTY-FOURTH: The commemoration of the anniversary of the entrance of the Pioneers into this valley was celebrated last month with appropriate services in the large Tabernacle, an immense concourse of people being in attendance. It was forty-one years since the company of Pioneers arrived where Salt Lake City now stands. The grand organ was handsomely draped with the stars and stripes, and a steel engraving of President Brigham Young hung in the centre among the national colors. Underneath it a banner bore the one word "Unity." The three stands were draped with national flags, and the platform in front of the stands, used on such occasions, was tastefully ornamented with flowers and plants in bloom. On one side was the head and horns of a buffalo, with its long, shaggy hair, and on the other the very old flag of stars and stripes, that was flung out to the mountain breeze from Ensign Peak on their first visit to the mountains, two days after their arrival.

Wilford Woodruff

APPRECIATION: I have been very much gratified with the literary attainments and pleasant tone of the editorials in your paper. I have certainly a very different idea of the trials and struggles of the Mormon Pioneers, from what I had before. I wanted to know the standing of the women rights' advocates, among your people, and I have been gratified indeed.

Mrs. A. Clark, Nantucket, R. I.

Fair are the flowers and the children, but their subtle suggestion is fairer; Rare is the rose burst of dawn, but the secret that clasps it is rarer. Sweet the exultance of song, but the strain that precedes it is sweeter, And never was the poem yet writ, but the meaning out-mastered the metre.

Richard Realf

NOTES AND NEWS: The announcement that Louisa M. Alcott's home at Concord, Mass., is to be sold, leads to the suggestion that it be bought by subscription and converted into a home for poor children, as a memorial to the author so well beloved by young readers.

MARICOPA STAKE: Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of Maricopa Stake, held at the Bowery, Mesa City June 21st, 1888, Elizabeth G. McDonald presiding. The different branches of the Society were well represented; there were a number of the brethren also present. Coun. Morris said, "Let us go to the Lord for strength to carry us through our trials." Felt to respond cheerfully to every call made upon her. Prest. Charles I. Robson felt the importance of the times we are living in; thought the day was near at hand when the reign of righteousness would commerce upon the earth. Prest. E. McDonald felt that we had truly had a feast. Gave counsel to the sisters to have a care in their remarks before their children. "Be careful how you speak of your neighbors before them." Asked the Lord's blessings upon us, that we might increase in good works.

Sarah M. Pomeroy, Secretary

EDITORIAL NOTES: The Deseret University, with its facilities for education, its modern improvements, the delightful grounds, and the suitable situation, enclosed, as it is, and shaded on all sides, is, indeed, a desirable locality for such an institution. It has the advantage, also, of an able Faculty, and ought to rank high as a seat of learning.

Page 530

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
WOMEN are trying to correct some important misfortunes among the nations of the world. They became increasingly cognizant of these ills at the last meeting of the International Council of Women in Philadelphia, toward the end of last year. They learned that some countries have very unsanitary milk and some countries have no milk. In at least fifteen nations women are not yet allowed to vote. In Poland live 600,000 orphan children born out of wedlock during the war. The women are working to carry out a three-year program dealing with peace, health, relief, and education.

JARRELL, only woman school superintendent in a United States city of more than 200,000 population, occupies that position in Atlanta, Georgia. When she began teaching, she asked to work with the underprivileged children. She has introduced many reforms into the conservative Atlanta schools, among them the startling innovation of coeducation.

FRANCES CLEVELAND, as the bride of Grover Cleveland, was the youngest First Lady in the United States. Since her recent death at 88, only five former Presidents' wives still live.

Se #9

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
THE National Spinsters Association of Great Britain, led by Florence White, fifty-five, grocer and founder of the Organization, is striving to win government pensions for spinsters when they reach the age of fifty-five.

WHEN Hope Reeder was born in Corinne, Utah, she had, instead of ten fingers, only one small index finger (on her right hand) and two thumbs. Yet, with magnificent effort and courage, she has forged ahead with a library career. After having received many national honors in her field, she was recently appointed to join the library staff of the United Nations in Geneva. She takes an active part in the work of the Latter-day Saint Church in the French mission.

Former Utah girl, Miss Charlotte Knight, daughter of Mrs. Ray Knight of Canada, has established a Far Eastern office for the New York magazine Air Force in faraway Tokyo, Japan. During the war, Miss Knight was the only woman correspondent for that journal. She was also the only woman writer present at the atomic bomb tests in Bikini. She is a member of the Overseas Press Club of America.

Page 531

Editorial Vol. 35 August 1948 No. 8 (Proverbs 17:7)

532-533

EDITORIAL
VOL. 35 AUGUST 1948 NO. 8
"A Friend Loveth at All Times" (Proverbs 17:7)
A young mother dropped wearily into a chair, almost holding her breath lest her fretful baby awaken and demand attention. The small room in which the mother sat was clean and neat, but through the crack of a half-opened door could be glimpsed the bedroom where the baby slept, in which was an unmade bed and toys and clothing strewn about. If only the baby were a sound sleeper, the mother thought, so she could clean the room while he slept. She relaxed for a moment letting her lids close after the hard work of the morning's wash. She was aroused by a light tapping at her apartment door. Silently opening the door, she beheld her next-door neighbor, a dear friend, standing with a welcoming smile on her face. "I know you're dead tired," she whispered, "with the baby crying so much in the night. I've come to stay while you get some fresh air. Just leave everything the way it is and put on your coat and go," she coaxed.
Because of the genuine concern mirrored in her friend's eyes, the mother gratefully accepted the offer. In a few minutes she was enjoying the brisk air, slowly drawing back into her body a sense of peace and relaxation to strengthen her for the further cares of the day.
A friend! What an outpouring of love and unselfish devotion the word expresses. In the midst of sorrow, of suffering and trouble, the strength of friendship will sustain and provide a protecting mantle against the shades of darkness and despair.
Friendship, however, to grow and become stronger than adversity, needs tender care and cultivation nourished with appreciation and understanding. Both parties to a friendship must unselfishly serve. It will be but a precarious friendship where all the giving is on one side and the taking on the other. Everyone who would be a friend has something to offer, for the giving of oneself, of one's talents, encouragement, and gratitude, far outweigh material gifts.
Love begets love and the more one gives the more one has to give. One person departs, leaving scarcely a remembrance behind. Another leaves and almost each hour of every day a nostalgic memory arises. The difference may largely be accounted for by the amount of service performed by the two, by the expression of their friendship.
It is blessed to be a friend; it is blessed to have a friend. Both conditions require doing and not mere being. All the effort expended is more than repaid for. "A friend loveth at all times," and will be dearly prized even after death comes.

M. C. S.
Page 493
Notes TO THE FIELD
Annual Stake Conventions Set
RELIEF Society annual stake conventions will begin in August and run through November. The conventions have been planned to occupy one day and will begin with a stake board meeting at 10 A.M., conducted by the home stake Relief Society president. Matters of importance to stake boards will be considered in this meeting and the discussion will be led by representatives from the Relief Society general board.
An officers and class leaders meeting will be held from 11 A.M. to 12:45 P.M. for stake board members, ward presidencies, secretary-treasurers, class leaders, and work meeting leaders. Members of the stake presidency, high council, and bishoprics are also invited to this meeting. Following the opening exercises and remarks from Relief Society officers, two departmental meetings will be held: (1) for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, magazine representatives; (2) for class leaders.
A general session is scheduled for the afternoon, to be conducted by the visiting stake Relief Society president. Stake and ward officers and class leaders are to attend the meeting, and priesthood representatives and visiting teachers are invited.

Annual Relief Society General Conference September 29 and 30, 1948
PLANS are well underway for the annual Relief Society general conference to be held on Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, 1948, immediately preceding the Church semi-annual general conference.
The plan for the Relief Society general conference calls for a morning officers meeting in the Assembly Hall for stake board members on Wednesday, with departmental meetings to be held simultaneously in the afternoon. A reception which stake board members and mission Relief Society presidents will be invited will be held in the evening at the Hotel Utah.
Both meetings on Thursday will convene in the Tabernacle and be open to the general public.
The morning session from 10 A.M. to 12 noon will feature the conclusion of the Relief Society Building Fund program. It is expected that an official representative of every stake and mission achieving 100% or more of its Building Fund quota will be present and recognition given them. Gold bands to be worn by the official representatives, lettered with the name of the stake or mission, will soon be sent to the stakes on their hav-
Page 533
534
completed their quotas. The conference will be a time of rejoicing to the sisters everywhere.

The 534 completed their quotas. The conference will be a time of rejoicing to the sisters everywhere. The afternoon session in the Tabernacle will be addressed by members of the general authorities, and Relief Society general board members. This conference will be remembered as one of the most memorable occasions in the history of Relief Society, and it is the earnest hope of the general board that great numbers of Relief Society members from faraway as well as nearby may be in attendance.

Stake presidents are requested to have their ward presidents announce the conference at the Relief Society summer meetings. Heat Waves and Salad Days
Elizabeth Williamson

URING the hot summer do eat outdoors if you possibly can. To entertain your friends, but don't let the weather get you down. With a little psychology and hardly any exertion you can serve a delicious luncheon and make your guests forget the hot weather. And as red and yellow give one a sense of warmth in winter, green and white give one a feeling of coolness in summer. Try to plan your menu and table decorations with cool colors in mind.

MENU
CHILLED SOUP This can be consomme, served with a slice of lemon, or perhaps a cold pea soup served with a sprinkling of parsley.
LARGE FRUIT SALAD Serve in individual wooden bowls or large, deep dishes. On a bed of chilled crisp lettuce, heap: chilled white grapes, chunks of pineapple, green melon balls, pieces of grapefruit, and avocado if you choose (it is a fruit and goes equally well with fruits or vegetables). Crisp and cold.
REMEMBER that to have a successful salad, the greens must always be
DRESSING FOR THE SALAD Use mayonnaise to which has been added whipped cream, or mayonnaise thinned with a small amount of fruit juices.

BREAD Serve hot rolls or tiny baking powder biscuits which can be prepared ready for baking earlier (in the cool of the morning). Or you may buy a prepared mixture for making delightful little buttermilk biscuits that pop out of the container into the oven.

If it seems too much of a task to make hot bread, you can serve small water-cress sandwiches 534 days it often seems an effort. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 Color plays a leading role. Just HEAT WAVES AND SALAD DAYS 535 sandwiches. Add a small amount of mayonnaise to the chopped water cress. Be sure to cut off the crusts of the bread. These little sandwiches are especially refreshing and are wonderful for an afternoon refreshment as well as a luncheon. DESSERT Prepare a frosty sherbet, either lemon or orange. Use the fresh fruit juices and the grated rind. Just add two cups of milk and a cup of granulated sugar or a cup of Karo syrup. Place in your refrigerator trays until it is solid, then remove and stir until very smooth. Return the sherbet to the refrigerator, and this time do not let it freeze, but keep it rather at a mushy but firm consistency. A REFRESHING DRINK Serve a frosty, tall drink and add a piece of mint for garnish. TABLE DECORATIONS Use the flowers in season, or branches of green leaves are effective. A centerpiece of bright yellow lemons with green leaves is unusual and striking. Place this centerpiece directly on the table and not in a container. It will be cool-looking and practical. And last, but certainly not least, as a charming hostess, remember you, too, must appear fresh and cool-looking. Your guests will relax and you will have a wonderful time. Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his mother and his fiancée Jane Alhson in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. They meet Mother MacKinlay and her son Bob, whom they had known while doing missionary work, and become acquainted with Kathleen Coleman and her friend Margaret Purvis. Hugh and Kathleen are married on board the ship. While in Iowa, preparing for the handcart journey across the plains, Margaret tells Mother Mac that she is in love with Andrew, and Kathleen tells the two women that she is expecting a baby. They journey on and survive the autumn storms. Andrew is missing one night and Margaret goes to his rescue and brings him back safely. The Saints in Zion send food to them, and Margaret leaves the Macs to go with Brother Brown to Tooele, Utah. Isn't it wonderful, Andrew? If my home in heaven is this grand, I'll be satisfied." Yes, Mother," slowly affirmed the young man. "I think I get what you mean. You will need a few more rooms in your mansion, but on the whole I think you can manage with this one for a time." Your large rooms, with shelves built in the kitchen and in the bedrooms; the well is here on the east side; the woodhouse is around the back," she enumerated, pointing out to Andrew the advantages of her new home. Do you see how the mountains rise from my very doorstep? When I'm not busy I will sit by the window and study the mountains. I will never be lonesome with all this beauty around me." "You never would be lonesome, anyway," Andrew said, looking into Mother Mac's calm blue eyes. "But, Page 536 for sure, this is the most beautiful spot I've ever seen." The rugged mountains, towering majestically into the clear blue skies, were beautiful in every tint and coloring of the spring. The sunshine glistened on stately trees, and danced with every shrub and flower in the soft-bedded nooks and glades of the sidehill. Mother turned to the west and looked for a long time at the shimmering beauty of the silvery blue fresh-water lake—a mirror, reflecting all of the radiance and grandeur of its surroundings. The river, singing on its way through the high green valleys, down over rocky crags and precipices, had found, at last, a soft loamy bed on the last lap of its journey before losing itself in the still, gleaming waters of the lake. The only thing out of harmony with the beauty of the valley was the fort. "It is such a pity that men have to build places of safety for themselves and families," Mother Mac said, reflectively. "We may be very glad to accept its security!" Andrew was rapidly becoming acquainted with both the opportunities and the dangers of the new home in the West. "I'm not seeking any interviews with the red men." Mother Mac looked anxiously toward the mountains. "I remember them only too well on the plains. They never did find that young boy who was stolen from our company. How I sympathize with his poor mother and relations." QUESTING LIGHTS "We had to be constantly on the alert, or they would have taken others." Andrew remembered his own fears on that memorable night when he was lost in the blizzard. "Well, my son, we have been greatly blessed of the Lord, since coming to Utah. You have a good job with the Hunters; Hugh and Kathleen and Father Coleman have rented a place for the time being, and I'm waiting for my money to come from Scotland, to finish paying for my home." "We're lucky, indeed," very thoughtfully returned the young man. UGH and Kathleen came to see the new home. They were interested in every feature which Mother was constantly adding. They went into the living room. It had been a long time since they had all been together. Mother wanted them to stay for dinner, so Bob went for Brother Coleman. "What have you been hearing from Jane, Andrew?" Kathleen asked as she began preparing the vegetables. "Does your mail come through any better?" "I haven't heard for sometime, but she doesn't hear from me, either. These twenty-five-cent pieces in American silver are very hard for me to find. I write every time I get one, but sometimes there is a long wait between letters. I have explained everything to Jane, and I'm sure she understands. I'll be very happy when the little lady arrives in Utah. I get so lonesome that even Resplendence, this valley of sunshine and enchantment, gets very dark and dreary at times. "I remember Jane!" Bob volunteered. "I saw her at conference in Cowdenbeath. Remember?" Andrew smiled assent. "She was just about the prettiest girl at church," Bob continued. "She had long, golden curls and sparkling blue eyes. She wasn't quite as tall as you are, but one thing I definitely remember, Jane was always smiling. Life must have been very good to that little bonnie lass." "I hope she still has her curls, and smiles," Andrew remarked, with a faraway look in his eyes. OTHER came out from the kitchen. "The problems of the plains are still with us. What shall we do for chairs? Oh, Bob! The boxes in the woodhouse! I bought them for kindling this morning. Now they will make dining room chairs, for a time." Mother smiled. She bustled around, completing the last-minute details. "Dinner is served, my children. It is like old times, isn't it? We must do this often. My latch strings are always out." "Well, in some ways, it is like old times," Andrew offered. "I always miss Margaret at these gatherings."

Does she write often? What is she doing?" "No, not very often. She's too busy," Mother answered, with a questioning glance at Andrew. "Wasn't it strange for Margaret to leave us so suddenly, and go to the Stuarts in Tooele?" Father Coleman asked. "No, not when you know the whole story," Mother explained. "Margaret was as close to Grandpa Stuart and Grandma Stuart as if she had been their own child. She was their daughter Betsey's best friend. They worked together at the flax mills in Arbroath. Grandpa Stuart taught Margaret the gospel, and baptized her. When her own people learned that Margaret was a Mormon they were very unhappy about it. She stayed with the Stuarts until they emigrated to Utah. A short time after they left, Margaret's mother died. She worked and paid all the funeral expenses because her brothers were married and had large families. Then she worked for her fare to Zion. I'm grateful she came in our company, even if we did have such a hard time of it. We are honored that she thought enough of us to become a Mac." "What is she doing now?" Andrew asked. "'m just as sure she is being loved and cared for as if I had her in my own home. She is old enough to make her own decisions and we must abide by them. I had a letter sometime ago, Grandpa Stuart's son is manager of the co-op out there, and Margaret is working in the store. A very good saleslady she is making, I am sure." "There are a lot of good people in Utah, judging by those I am meeting every day in Resplendence." Hugh spoke very earnestly. "Look what happened the day we got in from the plains. In one hour about five hundred people were taken into Salt Lake City homes and made comfortable. 'That was wonderful! Sure, Margaret is all right." "If you want an example of one of the best men in the valley, take my boss," Andrew began. "He told me that when I get tired, he wants me to rest till I get my weight and strength back. Sister Hunter cooks the meals that are good for us, and that isn't all, Brother Hunter has learned about Jane." The Macs got a good laugh from this one. "We thought maybe he would," Kathleen ventured. "Forgive me, Andrew." "Oh! That's all right, Kathleen. He didn't hear it from me," Andrew remarked with a smile. "No, he keeps all of his thoughts of Jane locked up in his own kind heart," Mother proffered. "Well, I may have told him, at that," chuckled Andrew, "but, getting back, Brother Hunter thinks working for wages is too slow. He wants me to raise wheat. I can't homestead until I'm a citizen, but he has a plan. I would like to homestead down on the river bottoms some day. They get the water out on the land so easy over there." Hugh voiced his hopes that some day he could raise fruit on the bench. "The soil is a large part sand, ideal for raising fruit." "That's life!" Brother Coleman allowed. "Andrew, with hay and grain on the bottoms; Hugh, with his peach and apple orchards on the bench." "Well, we can dream, can't we, Father?" "Yes, my son, we build our lives on dreams. Stop dreaming, and we stop growing." "Utah's a land of dreams." Andrew was unusually thoughtful today. "But the best dream of all is still in Scotland, waiting for the boat," Bob suggested. "Which brings us right back to QUESTING LIGHTS the Mac question number one," Hugh reckoned. "How to get the young lady across the water?" EVERY hour Mother could spare from her work she spent with Kathleen. So much time had passed by when Kathleen couldn't work because of the coming of her baby that she was very busy now. Hugh and Father Coleman had built the furniture. The rugs, curtains, and bedding Kathleen made herself. Now the little clothes were all about finished. One night in the spring Hugh came for Mother. As morning softly descended upon the peaceful village of Resplendence, Kathleen presented her husband with a beautiful baby boy. It was decided to name him Mac Coleman Shand. "That should make him very happy all the days of his life, for to me the name is very sacred," Kathleen explained. "It's what the name stands for that appeals to me—love, service, and understanding that came after days of traveling and suffering together on the plains." The fulfillment of dreams calls for work, hard work. Andrew was strong again. He accepted no more leniency on his job. Brother Hunter and the young man spent several days on the river bottoms looking for land where Andrew could raise wheat, and where, later, he could homestead. They found land as level as a barn floor, with hardly a rock on an acre, and with a thriving crop of good sagebrush. Brother Hunter furnished the team, equipment, and seed grain for planting. When Andrew spoke of paying him in the fall, Brother Hunter said, "My pay will come when I see your homestead covered with growing crops, with a home, and a wife to take care of you." The spring work was completed, the seeds were in their soft cradles. The rains were falling to start the miracle of germination and growth. The people in the valley turned their cattle out to feed in the bottoms and on the foothills. Andrew would have to stay with the grain night and day. There were no fences. One morning, after a rainstorm, the whole field seemed suddenly to turn green. Wonders upon wonders, the crop was up! Andrew wanted to tush over to the Macs and the Hunters to tell them the great news, but he could not leave the wheat. Instead, he wrote a letter to Jane. Jane Darling, The crop is up! Oh, how I wish you were here to see it. The whole field is green. I am sure every seed has sprouted, which means that in the fall I can sell the grain and send the money for you to come to Resplendence. 'That is, and here's the rub, if I can get any money. There just isn't any in these western regions, but we will hope, Jane. The rain is falling, making this the most beautiful valley in the whole world. I have decided to build our home on the millrace, a canal that has been cut through from the canyon to furnish power for a flour mill and a factory which the people are going to build. 'I remember the singing streams in Scotland, and the paths we used to climb up the hillside towards the pits, also a very charming young lady with a heart of gold. I met her at school. I couldn't go very long, but long enough to find you, my darling. Oh! Oh! The strays are coming. I will have to get on my black pony, Gypsy, and drive them away. More tonight. I love you, Jane.

Andrew (To be continued) Aunt Millenium's Deone'R Sutherland 6

THE proposition is at any rate an interesting one," said Papa, crossing his legs so that one thin knee jutted up balancing a green, leather-covered book and an open letter above that. "Well," said Mama, "a great-aunt is a great-aunt." This remark my younger brother Toby and I considered at length. Papa is usually a school teacher and is a man who has read a great many books, but who has spent very little time at the farm of his Aunt Millenium. Our great-aunt has the distinction of having Millenium for a first name. "I'm sure it will be very simple for all of us to become acclimated to a farm, at least for a summer," said Papa. "Aunt Millenium most certainly cannot stay on _ there alone." "Most certainly not," said Mama, who is always saying she agrees with Papa about everything except those things which are practical. If she at this time thought our stay on a farm and our turning farmers out of the realm of the practical, she was undoubtedly right. "And then Lavinia Elizabeth can live with us there and continue working on her uh whatever it is," said my mother, talking about my older sister. "The Bifurcated Existence of the Elizabethans," supplied Toby, who is very precocious for his age. "Yes," said Mama, nodding, "she can finish it on the farm." I chewed on my hair. It was supposed to be cut wind-blown, but it was cut so infrequently that often the front locks, when I leaned forward, could be stretched to my mouth. Papa said it would all lead to nearsightedness in the end.

RK * & BOCSVILLE, where Great-Aunt Millenium lives, gets very muddy in the spring. Papa stopped our gray Ford at the Bogsville Combination Depot and Feed Store and stepped out of the car into the mud. "Oh my," said Papa, and we all looked away as we heard the suction noise of Papa pulling out his feet. "Quite a bit of mud this time of year," called Papa to a man leaning in the doorway of the depot. "Some," said the man. "We're wondering if we can get through to it's the place Aunt -... Papa's voice faded away in the distance. "The man does not seem very friendly," I observed to Mama, as Papa made inquiries. "It would be nicer if there were more trees,"' said Lavinia Elizabeth, leaning toward the Sunny car window and squinting through her glasses while holding her place in her book with one hand. "Well, of course," said Toby, "the deciduous trees have not fully leafed as yet." "No, they haven't, have they, as yet?" agreed Mama brightly. We could tell she was trying to keep up our spirits. Mama can be very courageous.

Lavinia Elizabeth looked at Toby, and then she picked up her book AUNT MILLENIUM's again. 541 Just then Papa came slush-ing back to the car.
"Did you get muddy?" asked Toby. Mama frowned at Toby.
"Oh, it was nothing, really," Papa tried furtively to scrape his shoes on the running-board. We pretended not to notice. Papa looked very apologetic. He was being very humble because he was feeling guilty. Toby and I knew. He had, at the last minute, taken out two of his white shirts and replaced them with a volume of Restoration Plays, even though boxes of his books were coming by express. The only time Mama had ever really got angry about Papa's peculiar way of packing was the time he had substituted three volumes of Victorian poetry for Mama's two nightgowns and best blue serge.

"So this is Bogsville," said Mama.
Lavinia Elizabeth looked up from her book. "At any rate," she said, "I'll be quite isolated enough to finish my part of the book. I'll be able to concentrate."

GREAT-Aunt Millenium came out on her back porch to meet us. Our car slued and then mired itself at the end of her boardwalk. We got out of the car and started carrying in our things to Aunt Millenium's house.

Papa left his shoes by the scraper and walked around in his stocking feet. We had the three bedrooms upstairs. Lavinia Elizabeth and I were to share a room.
"This will be rather inconvenient," said Lavinia Elizabeth.
"You'll have to learn to be neat," said Mama to me.
I did not say anything. Lavinia is very smart, and I am very shy and uncouraegous around very smart people—especially my sister who is collaborating on a book with two men, a graduate student like herself, and a college teacher.

"How old are you?" said Great-Aunt Millenium to Lavinia Elizabeth.
"I'm only twenty-five," said my sister. Everyone said it was quite wonderful of Lavinia Elizabeth to be only twenty-five and to have done so much.
"Twenty-five and nothing but a book to your credit! What's he like, the one who's a graduate student, Lavinia Elizabeth?" asked Great-Aunt Millenium.
"He is brilliant," answered my sister, "and he thinks I have a good mind." Lavinia looked down at her feet. Her glasses slid forward on her nose.

"My word," said Great-Aunt Millenium, "is that all? It must be the way you do your hair. I've got a magazine that tells you if you want an uplift—Don't you ever notice what's in that kind of magazines?"
"I never read that kind of literature," replied Lavinia Elizabeth, pushing up her glasses.

"My word!" said Aunt Millenium. Papa coughed very loudly, and Mama began to ask about dinner. Toby and I stared at Great-Aunt Millenium.
"You can go fishing here, if you go after your own worms," Great-Aunt Millenium said to Toby.
"Oh," said Toby, "I don't think I'd care for worms."
"That's something Toby's never had the opportunity to do," said Papa. "My word!" Millenium. Said Great-Aunt

THE next morning we got up very early. All of us except Lavinia Elizabeth were to help on the farm, and even she was to help when we needed her. Great-Aunt Millenium had a hired hand for whom, later in the summer, she said she was extremely grateful. Papa had ordered winter wheat for Great-Aunt Millenium before we came, and then he and Mama had picked up one or two other things from which they expected to make a lot of money. All in all, it was to be a very growing summer.

Great-Aunt Millenium's hired hand waited in the kitchen for Papa. "This is Jake," said Great Aunt Millenium to Papa. Jake grunted slightly. "How do you do," said Papa. Toby and I looked at each other. Papa did not look very much like a farmer. Jake did not seem to be too impressed, either. They were going to do something to fence posts, Jake said. Papa followed Jake. We hoped it wouldn't take Papa too long to get acclimated. Toby and I went outside. We stopped by some bright yellow crocuses. 'They bloomed down at the end of the yard. Beyond them a clay wash stretched downhill, yellow and muddy. We looked at the crocuses. Great-Aunt Millenium stood behind us.

She smiled and Toby let her put her hand on his head. The sun was bright. It was a good summer, we decided. Mama said she would help also. She would help with the farming.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948

"The farm animals?" asked Great Aunt Millenium.
"Well, perhaps not the big farm animals," said Mama hesitantly.
"The chickens," decided Aunt Millenium.
Toby and I were to feed them and Mama was to collect the eggs. Mama was very enthusiastic.

After we fed them that afternoon, Mama went in with her basket. In a little while we heard Mama say, "Shoo," very fiercely and then again, "Shoo." Then the door opened and Mama came out of the hen coop. She went down to the shed where Jake kept the tools for the farm. In a moment she came out with the bee veiling and long leather gloves that Jake used when disturbing the bees.

"The chickens refuse to get off the nests," she said to Lavinia Elizabeth and me. She adjusted the long, four-sided veiling and pulled down the veils.

When Papa saw Mama in her egg gathering costume, he stopped and opened his mouth and then closed it.

"IT am having a little trouble getting acclimated to the chickens," said Mama in a slightly defensive, but slightly bitter tone. She set down the evening bucket of eggs and peered through the thick veiling at Papa.
"It's the chickens  they cluck at me...."

Papa said he thought her new green hat with the net and spangles would be as effective in the long run, but Mama continued using the bee veiling and leather gloves.

Papa's books came, but Papa had very little time to look at them. He brought down a bookcase from the attic and put it up, filled with his books, in Great-Aunt Millenium's parlor. He would run his hands along the backs of the books and then go to sleep.
"It is amazing how much sleep I wish I had more of," said Papa.

Papa's seeds and other orders came. He had a surprise for Great Aunt Millenium.
"It's peanuts," said Papa.
"We'll plow up that empty pasture and plant peanuts."
Papa's aunt stared at him.
"Then she said, "Well, Henry, I doubt if this is exactly the climate for peanuts." 
"It'll be all right if we have a late fall," said Papa. He was very eager.

Great-Aunt Millenium didn't say very much after that, but Jake would not co-operate.
"I don't want to have nothin' to do with it," said Jake.
So Papa spent a great deal of time planting his peanuts all by himself. Toby and I would go out and watch him sometimes. This work made him even more tired, he said.

Mama said, "Well, you can always plant another pasture."
Jake would only look very glum. He looked very glum most of the summer.
"I�m worried about Lavinia Elizabeth," said Great-Aunt Millenium.
"She don't get out enough."

WHEN the first crop of hay came on, we all went out on the wagons.
"But I don't have anything to wear," said Lavinia Elizabeth,
"besides"
"You're way ahead of schedule," said Mama.
"Besides Aunt Millenium thinks you're too pale."
She wore Jake's overalls with a belt around the middle
"'to hold her in 'em," as Great-Aunt Millenium 543 said.

Toby drove the wagon, and Lavinia Elizabeth and I tramped and settled the hay.
"Stack it!" Jake would yell, and Lavinia and I would run about on top the hay.
"I�m never sure exactly just what we're supposed to be doing," Lavina confided to me.
I felt very close and friendly toward her. We both worked very hard, but not as hard as Papa, who had a difficult time landing the piles of hay on the wagon.

Toby got along fine with the horses after he gave up saying "halt" to them and consented to yell "whoa!" Then one hot afternoon we came riding into the yard on the top of a load of hay and noticed a strange car in the backyard. Great-Aunt Millenium and Mama were in the backyard talking to a man.
"It's Andrew Nichols," said Lavina Elizabeth, and she lay flat on the hay.
"Cover me up," she said. It was a collaborator on her book, the younger one. I had seen him at home once or twice.

"Where's Lavinia Elizabeth?" yelled Great-Aunt Millenium.
Jake stopped the team.
"Here!" Lavinia Elizabeth stood up in the hay. She picked at the hay leaves in her hair.
"How do you do again," called Andrew from down below. He looked very surprised.
"Can I help you get down?"
Lavinia Elizabeth lay on her back on the hay and Papa and I held her arms as she slid.
Andrew caught her.
"Thank you, Andrew," said Lavinia Elizabeth with great dignity. She shook out her hair. She looked very small in Jake's big overalls with the belt around the middle. She did not look the way she usually seemed to look�not at all.

544

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948

"I came back about the book�I wanted to go over some things . . . ." Andrew looked a little vague.
"And he came to see you," Aunt Millenium spoke heartily.
Andrew and, "yes," then he said "yes" again in a different way, and looked very pleased.
"Oh!" said Lavinia Elizabeth and she put on her glasses and stared at him.

Jake started the horses, and we went to the barn to unload.

Andrew shared Toby's room. He and Lavinia Elizabeth worked very hard on the book.
"About the chaos of the Copernican age . . ." began Lavinia Elizabeth.
"You look very different with a sun-tan," interrupted Andrew.

They had put a table on the back porch and were working there.
"I'm very pleased about the book," said Great-Aunt Millenium.

After supper one night, Great-Aunt Millenium came up to our room. "I'll help you with your hair," she said to Lavinia. Lavinia Elizabeth looked very young in her nightgown, sitting on her bare feet.
"How is your book progressing?"
"Well," said Lavinia Elizabeth, "the book . . . well, the book is fine, I guess." Then she got up and kissed Great-Aunt Millenium on the cheek. "I don't know exactly what's progressing," she said and her cheeks looked very red.

WELL,
"There should be more box-elders than this with those peanuts," said Papa.
He had turned very brown in the sun also.
"It beats me," he said.

"Say," said Papa to Aunt Millenium, "is Jake always this taciturn?"
"Well, he don't talk more than most of the people here."
"You know," said Andrew, "the first Sunday we went to church after I arrived, the bishop said this town was more like New England than any place in the West. The people are lovable only after you know them."
"I believe it," said Papa, "at any rate, the put about New England." He yawned.
"If I'm not hungry, I'm sleepy."

They'll never know me this fall back at school."
"Well, none of us are very pale any more," said Mama, through her mask of cold cream which she seemed to wear a great deal of the time. "I'd wear this in the coop, but the effect might be fatal," she said.
Andrew and Lavinia Elizabeth went out for walks often after dinner. One evening they came into the house and into the parlor where we were all sitting.
"We've been out for some fresh air, Elizabeth and I," said Andrew.
"There is certainly a lot of fresh air outside," he added heartily.
Lavinia Elizabeth and Andrew went to find it more and more difficult to make conversation with us," remarked Papa.
Great-Aunt Millenium smiled while she tatted. She rubbed her cat with her foot. "It'll be different after he ask you for her," said Great-Aunt Millenium.
"Oh," I said looking up, "is it a kind of a secret now?" AUNT MILLENIUM'S I had been reading a great many of Great-Aunt Millenium's hidden novels. "Oh," I repeated. "Oh!" said Papa. Mama smiled at Aunt Millenium through her cold cream. Toby yawned. The summer was nearly over, and we all decided the peanut crop was a failure, even though Papa had had a triumphant afternoon when the plants had really sprouted. The only trouble was the peanuts at the other end had failed to materialize as they did in the picture. "Not enough time, I guess," said Papa moodily. He had had to take a great many comments from the townspeople who frequently stopped to inspect his peanut crop. The book was finished, yet Andrew kept hanging around. "He's getting up the courage," said Great-Aunt Millenium. "Well, I wish he'd hurry," said Papa, "the whole thing makes me very nervous." Lavinia Elizabeth would sit before our mirror after we were supposed to be in bed. She would take off her glasses and Jean forward, and then she would smile at herself. It was late August when Andrew and Papa went walking up to see the failed peanut crop. When they came back, we knew it was over, and Great-Aunt Millenium cooked a big special dinner in honor of Andrew and Lavinia Elizabeth. It was all very romantic. I did not even mind the chance drops of water slipping down my face from my curls, I was so interested in watching them. Lavinia Elizabeth smiled at Andrew and he smiled at her. I felt a lump in my throat when Lavinia Elizabeth would be so lovely just with smiling at Andrew. Papa smiled at Mama and Great-Aunt Millenium. "Well, we made a mistake or two," said Papa.
"Never mind," said Mama. Papa leaned back in his chair. "But nothing that can't be repaired by a good extra hired man next summer," he said. "Well, we'll certainly plow up the peanuts you planted half the country with," said Aunt Millenium drily, "and those sweet peas Maude filled my vegetable garden with." "Oh my," said Mama, laughing. "I did make a mistake there, but they were so pretty...." "Yes," said Aunt Millenium, "but as pretty as sweet peas are, I'm afraid the peas you can eat and put in cans are more sensible." Andrew laughed, but he was not looking at us. He looked only at Lavinia Elizabeth. Toby and I went outside after Great-Aunt Millenium's supper. Toby went to the garage and came out with a bucket and a flashlight. "What are you doing?" I asked him. I felt bad about the summer being nearly over. Two more days.... "Tm thinking about going fishing tomorrow. I'm thinking about trapping some night-crawlers." "Oh," I said. I watched him from the porch. In a few minutes Lavinia Elizabeth and Andrew crossed the lawn and leaned on the gate opening into the orchard. Andrew held her hand. "Look!" I whispered to Toby. "Abominably biological," he said, squinting with his nose very close to the ground. "Grand passion," I breathed fervently; then sadly I felt for one of my longer, slipping curls with my tongue.
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer
All material for these pages should be submitted through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274.
HANDICRAFT, SOCIALS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
Photograph submitted by Margaret Peterson
NORWEGIAN MISSION, QUILT MADE BY RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS
Shown displaying the beautiful quilt, are: President Benny Hagan; First Counselor Inga Hansen; Second Counselor Ida M. Swensen; Secretary Gudran Auna; Betzy Holgerson; Agnes Floisand.
The quilt was made under the direction of Sister Swensen, a missionary from Idaho. Since this first quilt was completed many others have been made. The sisters of this mission also purchased over a hundred six-pound packages of food which they sent to the saints in Germany and Belgium. Margaret Peterson is president of the Norwegian Mission Relief Society.
Page 546
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
547
SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), NINETEENTH WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS
Left to right: Agnes G. Branch (age 88) 1915-1925; Maude F. Hanks, 1930-1936, now stake president; Hattie P. Cooper, 1936-1939; Lulu Bringhurst, 1939-1942; Laura P. Fifield, 1942-1946; Otelia B. Hale, 1945-1946; Cordelia S. Taylor, 1946-. It is ninety-one years since this society was organized, with Drucilla Hendricks appointed president in 1857.
Photograph submitted by Amy C. Funk
LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), BEVERLY HILLS WARD OFFICERS AND TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT ANNIVERSARY DINNER, March 18, 1948
Standing, left to right: Nell Frame; Lilly Rohlfing; Ruth Johnson; Nell Walt; Frances Saunders; Jeanne Hunter; Amy Funk; Kathleen Jones; Avon Smart; Mabel Parry. Seated: President Louise Luke.
Approximately 100 women attended this delightful party at the home of Sister Hunter. Floral arrangements, the birthday cake, and other refreshments carried out the birthday motif and the blue and gold colors of Relief Society.
Dorothy H. Koer is president of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society.
548
Photograph submitted by Maude O. Cook
BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH), GARLAND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SING-ING MOTHERS WHO HAVE SUNG FOR MANY WARD AND STAKE MEET-INGS AND HAVE RENDERED MUSICAL SELECTIONS IN THE LOGAN TEMPLE
Officers, seated in the second row: President Mary Shumway, second from the left; organist Amelia Davis, third from left; chorister Vida Manning, fourth from left; secretary Lucetta Thompson, second from right.
This group was organized in 1933 and continued for fourteen years with the same officers. During this time they sang at the Garland Ward Relief Society meetings twice each month and sang on 258 special occasions and at more than forty funerals. Also they have sung a number of times in the Logan Temple.
Maude O. Cook is president of Bear River Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Zelma Miller
MESA STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS CONCERT March 17, 1948
This concert was presented for the Relief Society members and their husbands of Mesa and Maricopa Stakes. Approximately 900 people attended. Director Ellare J. Reber is seated at right, front. Erma Anderson was the accompanist; Ella Bentley, assistant accompanist; Vilate Gordon, violinist; Nathel Bowers, soloist; Lane Pew, trumpeter; LaPreel Huber, reader.
Zelma Miller is president of Mesa Stake Relief Society.
549
Photograph submitted by Georgia H.

CENTRAL PACIFIC MISSION, OAHU DISTRICT (HAWAII), RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT, March 17, 1948 The pageant was written by Katherine Takeuchi and produced by a committee under her direction. With the spoken word and music the following events were portrayed: the organization of the first Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith; the organization of the first Japanese Mission Relief Society under the direction of President Hilton A. Robertson and Hazel M. Robertson in 1940; the benefits the organization is giving to present members of the Central Pacific Mission Relief Society. Included in the photograph are members of the pageant cast and the presidencies of the four branch Relief Societies on the island of Oahu. Seated at the table, directly behind the birthday cake, left to right: Irene P. Clis-sold, wife of President E. L. Chssold of the Japanese Mission; Georgia H. Weenig, President, Central Pacific Mission Relief Society. Katherine Takeuchi stands at the right corner of the table; Mary Matsumoto, President, Mission Branch Relief Society, stands at the left corner of the table. Branch Relief Society presidents are: Mitsuko Kaneshige (LanakiH); extreme left, second row; Okuma Abo (Wahiawa), seventh from the left, second row; Grace S. Oki-moto (Kalihi), fifth from the left, third row. Women missionaries on the island of Oahu, shown in the picture, are: Anna R. Williams; Mary B. Greene; Anita B. Hyatt; Doris Burris; Dorothy Watanabe; Bessie Okimoto. Georgia H. Weenig is president of the Central Pacific Mission Relief Society.

ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), AMERICAN FORK SEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY RAG BEE, January 29, 1948 Sister Alice Carlisle, President, Alpine Stake Relief Society, has submitted an account from the American Fork Seventh Ward which well illustrates the zeal of Relief Society workers: "The room was a beehive of activity as thirty members assembled for a regular old-fashioned rag bee. First, a fashion show of the clothing that was to be cut or torn in strips for the rugs was held. Needless to say, there was a great deal of merriment. The coats of the women were safely hung on hangers on a rack so that none of them would meet the fate of the coat belonging to the lady from Lehi, who, when weaving rugs for her own ward, discovered that her own coat had been cut up into strips. In all, thirty-one balls of rags were sewed, as well as a large box of rags torn, which were later sewed by the sisters in their homes. In keeping with the occasion, homemade cinnamon rolls and grape juice were served as refreshments by Sister Froelick and Sister Wall. Cleone Cleghorn is ward Relief Society president, with Violet Varney and Lena Storrs as counselors, and Jennie Greenwood as secretary. Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom

OGDEN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS PLANNING AND CUTTING MATERIALS FOR WELFARE SEWING FOR 1948 In front, seated: Stake Welfare Counselor Edna Tribe; Minnie Fronk; Ella Strat-ford; Stake Relief Society President Cleona Hedenstrom; Rose Phillips; Lillian West; Lois Smith. At the back, standing: Lena Hansen; Ann Swenson; Margaret Mumford; Nell Phil-lips; Vivian Carlson; Effie Alvord; Fern Clark; Margie Staples; Gertrude Hayes; Pearl Rogerson; Cora Miller. Photograph submitted by Winnie T. Graff

OREM STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS HONORED FOR SERVICE RECORDS, March 17, 1948 Front row, seated, left to right: Mary Jensen, 57 years of membership; Agnes Pace, 45 years; Martha Rudy, 71 years; Eleanor Bishop, 45 years; Polly Harris, 42 years; Emily Ashton, 47 years. Back row, standing, left to right: Lena Gammon, 50 years of membership; Suzie Madsen, 47 years; Stake Secretary Ora J. Healy; Second Counselor Zenda W. Rowley; President Winnie T. Graff; First Counselor Agnes Bellows; May Adams, 52 years of membership; Emily W. Biggs, 54 years. Stake President Winnie T. Graff reports that these sisters were honored at the Founders Day anniversary celebration. The five wards of Orem Stake participated in presenting a lovely program. Each of the elderly women shown in the photograph was presented with the book A Centenary of Relief Society. A very fine poem for the occasion was composed by Ruth Lewis Peterson.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 551

OAKLAND STAKE (CALIFORNIA) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION February 27, 1948 Hilda E. Perkins, President, Oakland Stake Relief Society, reports a most interesting and inspiring visiting teachers convention: "A warm welcome and greeting was afforded the faithful sisters and a tribute of love paid to each, about one hundred being present. Each president of the seven wards in Oakland Stake, as her name was called, arose and stood while she reported the number of families in her ward, number of districts, number of visiting teachers enrolled and number present, the percentage of visits made in January. Several presidents reported 100% on visits made and others were close to this mark. A most entertaining program was given, with each ward participating. A question box, pertaining to the duties of the visiting teacher, was conducted by Sister Ruth Hilton and a trio was rendered by the young mothers of Oakland Ward. Mary Stewart and Inez McFarland presented a demonstration of visiting teaching, with families from Hayward, Elmhurst, and San Leandro Wards assisting. Fern Everett of Maxwell Park Ward and Lou Seiver of Alameda Ward gave talks on the preparation and responsibilities of visiting teachers. A social and refreshments followed the convention." Photograph submitted by Rhea M. Carrick

PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), MONROVIA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED IN FRONT OF THE NEW CHAPEL WHICH THEY HELPED FINANCE AND DECORATE Front row, seated, left to right: Lorna Laine; Velva Demorest; Margaret Gallagher; Secretary Ruth McDonald; Olive Boyer; Magazine representative Martha Hanks; First Counselor Letitia Meyers; Blanche Whitlock. Back row, standing, left to right: Edna Russell; Second Counselor Alice Young; Vera Worrell; Wilmuth Simmons; Ethel Coleman; Maryanne Russell; President Rhea Carrick. These sisters reported the erection of a beautiful new chapel by members of the Monrovia Ward with which the Relief Society assisted. During February and March (1948) these sisters spent 340 hours hand sewing every yard of carpet being used in the chapel, in addition to decorating their own Relief Society room. Madge P. Fowler is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society.

The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing
Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board

Sing again, with your clear voice revealing a tone  
Of some world far from ours,  
Where music and moonlight and feeling are one. (Shelley)

A tone is a given, fixed sound of certain, definite pitch. It is refined sound and is composed of a fundamental tone and its overtones. It is the heart of all music. If tones are complete in every respect the music will be correspondingly good. Certain characteristic elements are present in a beautiful tone. Of these richness is one of the most basic and appealing. To produce this quality there must be a definite, clear-cut, fundamental tone. Above this there must also be a certain number of partials (overtones) evenly distributed. It is the presence of these overtones in their proper inherency and proportion that finally determines the tone quality (timbre or timber). This quality denotes a particular characteristic type of tone such as: sonorous, rich, beautiful.

The ability to think, produce, and fully appreciate beautiful tone quality is a gift—an inherited capacity, the ability to perceive and conceive vibratory completeness, perfection, beauty. In fact, a person who is a real artist belongs to the rank of a genius. Nevertheless, much of this gift may be acquired through diligent study, listening, imitating, reasoning, ear-training, association, comparing, producing, correcting, improving. Since not all of us are especially endowed with tonal understanding, and since beautiful tone quality is indispensable to proper singing, and since most of us love to sing as well as we can, it is reasonable to conclude that we should strive to acquire as much understanding of beautiful tone quality as possible.
Persistent Study Necessary
What is the end of study? Let me know? Why, that to know, which else we should not know. Things are not good, you mean, from common sense? Ay, but is study's god-like recompense. (Shakespeare)
Study tone quality from every possible single and authoritative point. This includes: (a) Consonance, agreeable in sound, not scattered, "throaty," uneven tone, but, concentrated, unrestrictied, resonant. (b) Pitch, a certain number of vibrations per second, unwavering, sustained. This is accomplished by singing long tones on different pitches, with proper and sustained breath support, as explained in lesson one. Practice with thoughts, feelings, and emotions directed towards the beautiful in life and nature. This conduces to richness and beauty of tone quality.
[Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department of union meeting.] Page 552
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior
Lesson 10—"As One Having Authority"
Elder Don B. Colton
(Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 18, by Elder James E. Talmage)
For Tuesday, November 2, 1948
Objective: To offer proof that Jesus the Lord possessed the fulness of divine power and authority.
Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ.
JESUS laid no claim to human authorization. Whether in private or public utterance he made no effort to establish any call from earthly powers or governments. He was to do his Father's work and so asserted from the beginning. He exercised power over the forces of nature, men, demons, and even over life and death. He affirmed that power had been given him "over all flesh" (John 17:2). "For it pleased the Father that in him [Christ] should all fulness dwell" (Col. 1:19).
How wisely and beneficially he used that power will be pointed out in this lesson. "For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes" (Mark 7:29).
The Centurion's Servant Healed
At the time Jesus delivered the Sermon on the Mount, Capernaum, where he spent much time, was governed by the Romans. Attached to the household of a centurion, a Roman captain, was a highly esteemed servant who was ill "and ready to die." The centurion had great faith in Christ and earnestly entreated the Jewish elders to implore the Lord to save the sick servant.
The centurion did not ask for a personal visit but only that the Savior would speak the effective word. The Lord did that and the servant, though not present, was healed. Jesus remarked afterward: ". . . I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel" (Matt 8:10). This was said of a Gentile and was a surprise to the Jews. It was plainly meant to convey the truth that Gentiles would be preferred in the kingdom of God if they were more worthy.
A Young Man of Nain Raised from the Dead
Following the miracle just described, Jesus went to the small town of Nain. As he approached the town, he and his followers met a funeral cortege of a widow's only son. From a Painting by Hofmann MARY ANOINTING THE FEET OF JESUS A Perry Picture LESSON DEPARTMENT The sorrow of the bereft and lonely mother touched the Savior and he bade her in gentle tones, "Weep not." Then, speaking to the corpse, he said, "Young man, I say unto thee, Arise." 'The Lord of all, both the living and the dead, had spoken. The young man arose, restored to life, and was graciously given back to his mother. The people who saw, "... Glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people" (Luke 7:1-16). Parenthetically, it may be of interest to know that Luke was a physician. All of the miracles relating to healing described in the New Testament are described by Luke. Each of the other three writers tells of some of these miracles but Luke writes of them all. Human problems appealed to him; and he gives a very good account of the parable of the Good Samaritan.
John the Baptist
About the time Jesus commenced his active ministry, John the Baptist had been imprisoned by order of Herod Antipas, tetrarch of Galilee and Perea. A feeling of sympathy for John naturally comes to us. He had been so fearless and effective as the forerunner of the Messiah. The 'Baptist had rebuked Herod the tetrarch for living with Herodias, the undivorced wife of the tetrarch's brother, even though they had gone through an illegal marriage ceremony. The wicked woman had a "quarrel against him," [John] and had succeeded in having him imprisoned. After many months of imprisonment, John, who had heard so much 555 of the Savior's word, sent two messengers to him inquiring, "Art thou he that should come? Or look we for another?" After healing many people of their infirmities and of evil spirits and restoring sight to the blind, Jesus said to these messengers:... Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me (Luke 7:22-23). John, no doubt, was familiar with the prophecies of Isaiah concerning the works the Messiah would do and was comforted with the report of the messengers. (Read Isaiah 35: -6.) There are good grounds for believing that John's purpose in sending the disciples to make the inquiry was largely designed to confirm in those disciples an abiding faith in the Christ. He himself had been given a testimony at the time of the Savior's baptism. The Savior commented further regarding John and his great work, after the messengers had gone back. He wanted the people to appreciate the Baptist and called their attention to his one-time popularity. It was not the Master's plan to build himself up by discrediting others.

John had been fearless and forceful in proclaiming the nearness of the establishment of the kingdom of God and the coming of the Redeemer: The Lord stated: "For I say unto you, among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist; but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he" (Luke 7:28). For an interesting explanation of the first part of the quotation just made see Documentary History of the Church under date of May 24, 1843 (Jesus the Christ, page 275). The latter part of the quotation has given rise to much discussion and comment. The most commonly accepted explanation is that John had not learned the full purpose and meaning of the mission; that he had seen the witness of the Holy Ghost, but probably had not received the full light of the testimony as to who Jesus was, and had been unable to comprehend the truth concerning the death and resurrection of the Lord. To know that in its fulness, and also to know the Father, is eternal life (Read John 17:3). To be in the kingdom of heaven one must know God lives.

. . . Jesus in no wise intimated that John would remain less than the best in the kingdom, but, on the contrary, that a knowledge of the vital truths of the kingdom, and rendered obedience thereto, he would surely advance and become great in the kingdom of heaven as he was great among the prophets of earth (Jesus the Christ, page 278).

Jesus fully appreciated John the Baptist and compared their lives. The wicked Jews had rejected the latter partly because he was very strict—as strict as any Nazarite. He refused to join merrymakers or indulge in any of the common pleasures of the day. But when the Savior came without austerity, eating and drinking as a normal, righteous man would do, they complained: "Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!"

How sinners do seek an excuse to justify their actions in disregarding God's commands!

We need not here relate the ghastly account of the death of John the Baptist nor the wickedness of the woman who caused him to be put to death. In the sixth chapter of Mark, the dreadful story is told.

We have in this day a glorious testimony that John lives again, a resurrected being. He is great in the kingdom of heaven. In May 1829, he laid his hands upon the heads of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and ordained them to the Priesthood of Aaron (D&C, sec. 13).

In the House of Simon the Pharisee

The Lord used Simon, a Pharisee, to teach one of his great lessons. This man had invited the Savior to dine at his home. Luke gives a good description of the event. It was the custom in those days for the host to greet distinguished guests with a kiss of welcome, to see that water was provided for washing the feet, and oil for anointing the hair. All of these courtesies were omitted by Simon and the reception seems to have been a cool one. The guests undoubtedly reclined on couches or divans, as was the custom in those days, with their feet outward from the table.

While the meal was in progress, a humble, penitent woman, who had been unvirtuous, entered the home and approached Jesus from the back. She had no doubt heard his gracious words and wanted forgiveness. She bathed the feet of Jesus with her tears and wiped his feet with her hair.

Simon watched her and said to himself: "This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner." Jesus read his thoughts and told him of the creditor who forgave his two debtors, the one 500 pence and the other fifty. Jesus asked, "Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?" The answer from Simon could only be, "I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most." Jesus continued:

"Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment."

Jesus turned to the woman and said, "Thy sins are forgiven . . . Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace" (Luke 7:36-50).

Some writers have confused this woman just mentioned with Mary, the sister of Martha and Lazarus, others with Mary Magdalene. There is no justification for either conclusion. There are no grounds for believing that either of these fine women was ever unchaste.

Christ's Authority Ascribed to Beelzebub

There were wicked men, particularly among the Pharisees, who evolved the theory that Jesus performed his great miracles through the power of Satan. This ridiculous suggestion was rebuffed by the argument that the devil would not overthrow his own followers; that a kingdom divided against itself could not stand but must suffer disruption. While the Lord had not sought publicity, it was well known that he had cast out devils, performed many mighty miracles, and possessed powers unknown to any other being who had ever lived upon the earth.

Seekers After Signs

Notwithstanding all that had been done in their midst, people came frequently to the Lord with the request, "Master, we would see a sign from thee." To such he gave the scathing reply, "An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign, and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas." As Jonas [Jonah] was three days in the belly of the fish and then released; so would the Son of Man be in the tomb for three days and then he would rise again.

Surely no one who believes can read of these wonderful events without feeling that Jesus possessed the fulness of divine power and exercised that power in righteousness. "But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it" (Luke 11:28).

Questions and Suggestions for Discussion

1. From what source did Jesus derive his authority?
2. Relate the circumstances of the raising of the son of the widow of Nain.
3. Tell briefly the story of John the Baptist and relate events in his life which show he was a great man.
4. Describe the events which took place in the house of Simon the Pharisee. Why did the Savior say, "Thy faith hath saved thee, go in peace"?
558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Savior Speaks Lesson 2 "Where Are the Nine?" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 2, 1948 Objective: To warn against the sin of ingratitude.

And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger (Luke 17:11-18). "And he was a Samaritan." It is significant in the parable quoted that the one leper to return and glorify God was "a stranger," one who knew not the "law" as Israel. We may be led to believe that the other nine belonged to the faith, a fact which in itself may or may not add to the lesson. It does remain that the majority of those healed forgot all sense of gratitude in the personal joy of their deliverance. What is it that the Lord would require of them who would show gratitude to him? First and foremost he has said to exhibit love—love which above all is unselfish and remembers blessings bestowed. In a world today which places such emphasis on material values, we are apt to take for granted many blessings which money cannot buy. How can we in the Church be not like the "nine" in the things the Lord would have us remember? Perhaps we can best show our appreciation by recognizing often the less obvious daily blessings the Church affords. Let us think a deacon knocks at the door to ask for fast offerings, a chorister stimulates to loftier thoughts during song practice, a teacher invites active thinking of gospel truths, an elder comes to lay hands on a dear one who suffers pain, and two Relief Society visiting teachers call at a home in a spirit of love. For these and many other sweet services the Lord would have us grateful, for they come as do all his gifts without money and without price. Mothers in the home have a great responsibility to teach their children to express gratitude: first, through prayer to the Lord and thanks for all they have; then, gratitude to parents, brothers, sisters, relatives and associates for their unselfish acts of love and service. Any child who, from youth, is thus taught, will not be found among the nine. "Where are the nine?" (Luke 17:11-18).

LESSON DEPARTMENT

559

Work Meeting Sewing
(A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Lesson 2 Remodeling Dresses
Jean Ridges Jennings

For Tuesday, November 9, 1948

What are we going to do with the old dresses that are either out of style or worn out in some places so that they can no longer be used as they are, but are too good to throw away? In this lesson we want to consider the possibilities for remodeling them so they can be worn by the original wearer. Often it is quite easy to get more wear out of an old garment by buying some new material and combining it with the old and getting a very satisfactory result. However, in too many cases the new material has a tendency to increase the shabbiness of the old by contrast and the extra cost involved is not warranted. The obvious conclusion is that it would be much better to choose the fabric from another outmoded garment rather than add new to the old. In this way we have one new dress for two old ones.

There are various possible combinations in this method of fashioning a new dress. One could combine a print with a plain material that either blended or contrasted satisfactorily with it. Or a silk dress might be used with one of wool that was harmonious. Still another possibility is that of combining fabrics of the same color but contrasting texture such as satin and crepe; faille and light weight wool; or velveteen with wool. The style chosen to make over the garments would naturally have to depend on the lines in the original garment. One would need to choose a pattern that could be adapted to the lines of the old dresses.

Here are some possible suggestions: In case the old dress is no longer usable because the sleeves have pulled out at the seams, or worn out under the arms or at the elbows, try making new sleeves with a large deep armhole out of the other old dress. Have them shaped in such a way that they can be set back as far or as low as necessary to eliminate the worn places. A contrasting yoke can be set in the waist of an old dress to perk it up. Or an entire new front can be made for the blouse part of the dress. And to carry the contrasting color elsewhere, the skirt could be lengthened with bands of the same material as the blouse front or yoke. One could have the entire skirt of one material and the blouse entirely of another with the exception of a collar, tie or some other trimming to carry the skirt color up and thus unify the costume.

At the present time in many cases good dresses will be out of active service because they are too short. To bring them back to high style one might add a contrasting peplum 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 under which the skirt could be dropped by adding a yoke and thus give it the required length. The material from which the peplum is made could be used for collar and cuffs, or neck bow, or buttons, thus carrying it into the blouse. This treatment is particularly attractive in the case of material of the same color but contrasting texture.

Often by hunting in pattern books for styles that show contrasting materials some very helpful ideas can be found.

Literature
Literature of the Latter-day Saints
Literature of the Gospel Restoration

Lesson 2—Highlights of the Book of Mormon
Epic Elder Howard R. Driggs

For Tuesday, November 16, 1948

The following excerpt from the Autobiography of Parley P. Piatt offers an excellent literary introduction to our lesson. Parley, on a mission for the "Campbellites," had neared Palmyra and made arrangements to hold a meeting. He writes: We visited an old Baptist deacon by the name of Hamlin. After hearing of our appointment for evening, he began to tell of a book, A STRANGE BOOK, a VERY STRANGE BOOK! in his possession, which had just been published. This book, he said, purported to have been originally written on plates either of gold or brass, by a branch of the tribes of Israel!

and to have been discovered and translated by a young man near Palmyra, in the State of New York, by the aid of visions or the ministering of angels. I inquired of him how or where the book was to be obtained. He promised me the perusal of it at his house the next day if I would call. I felt a strange interest in the book .... Next morning I called at his house, where for the first time my eyes beheld the BOOK OF MORMON, that book of books, that record which reveals the antiquities of the New World back to the remotest ages and which unfolds the destiny of its people and the world for all time to come, that Book which contains the fulness of the gospel of a crucified and risen Redeemer, that Book which reveals a lost remnant of Joseph, and which was the principal means, in the hands of God, of directing the entire course of my future life. I opened it with eagerness, and read its title page. I then read the testimony of several witnesses in relation to the manner of its being found and translated. After this I commenced its contents by course. I read all day; eating was a burden. I had no desire for food; sleep was a burden when the night came, for I preferred reading to sleep. As I read, the spirit of the Lord was upon me, and I knew and comprehended that the book was true as plainly and manifestly as a man comprehends and knows that he exists. My joy was now full, as it were, and I rejoiced sufficiently to more than pay me for all the sorrows, sacrifices and toils of my life. I soon determined to see the young man who had been the instrument to its discovery and translation (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, chapter V). What is there in this "book of books" so to intrigue a man of such outstanding intelligence as we know Parley P. Pratt possessed? What is in this scripture that charms and holds readers of open mind and heart whatever their station in life? First of all, it would seem to be the epic story of the Book of Mormon itself. An epic, we should explain, is a composite story—a series of stories, if you will, that portrays a people. And such indeed is the epic of the Book of Mormon. Secondly, the simple yet profound portrayal of the gospel. Stories woven into the Book of Mormon epic are of distinctive quality. Like those in the Old and New Testament they have not only intriguing interest but inner meaning—deep spiritual import. They live and last in the souls of those who appreciate them. Let us consider here a few of these stories, from a literary viewpoint as well as from the messages of truth they vitalize. A first of these, which challenged the writer's intense interest even in boyhood, is one which might be entitled: "A Heroic Youth Serves His People." This story, which is told in full, I Nephi, chapters 3 and 4, has all the qualities of a classic. It presents a vital problem—the procuring of a sacred, saving record. It portrays a clash of negative and positive spirits, represented in the brothers Laman and Nephi. It moves with precision and rising interest. Difficulties and danger enhance the drama. Crises are met with heroism, and success achieved. The plates of brass, containing scripture beyond price for the adventures in a new world, are delivered to the prophet-leader, Lehi. Within this dramatic story there is also something deeper than a mere tale for entertainment. First of all, it impresses unforgettably the vital, saving value of the written word of God for any people. Secondly, it lifts into the clear, precious truths. Two of these stand out:...

The Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief (1 Nephi 4:13). Through other stirring narrative, given as the epic naturally develops, the meaningful events are portrayed. With the sacred record on the brass plates, which contained much of what we know as the Old Testament, including the vital prophecies of Isaiah, to guide and inspire them, the band under their living prophet Lehi fared forth into the unknown. It was a new journey into the wilderness and across the wide waters to a new "Land of Promise." Note the beauty of Lehi's counsel to his sons, Laman and Lemuel: And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness! And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord! (I Nephi 2:9-10). 

And the great adventure was filled, as was that of the other children of Israel, with drama. Misgivings and even conflict within the families add to natural difficulties (I Nephi, chaps. 2-7). At times the Lord must use reproof and sharp correction to keep rebellious spirits such as Laman and Lemuel from thwarting the divine purpose which is being unfolded under the courageous leadership of Lehi and his loyal son Nephi. This is the central purpose of the Book of Mormon epic: to impress the truth that our Savior lives. All its stories, the doctrines they carry— all its quotations from Isaiah, who clearly visioned the Messiah, bear directly or indirectly on this divine message to mankind. To keep this clearly in mind will help those who follow this lesson, and who may continue to study the epic, better to understand the great composite story.

Another thing of import; and this is plainly stated by Nephi: Emphasis is laid in this scripture on "the things of God." Says this prophet: Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the world I do not write, but the things which are pleasing unto God, and unto those who are not of the world. Wherefore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they shall not occupy these plates with things which are not of worth unto the children of men (I Nephi 6:5-6).

Literary "smart" folk have often spoken flippantly about the Book of Mormon as dull reading. Even some of our own people more now than ever before, accustomed to swiftly moving, sensational fiction and drama at times confess they find it uninteresting. All of which is to say they are looking for something different from what this scriptural epic contains. Its stories are of a distinctive type. They are laden with truths of priceless value, with discourses on deeply religious themes.

In the Old Testament and the New Testament, the prophetic writings and the epistles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 are, in the main, set apart. In the Book of Mormon such expository writings are woven into the stories that serve to vitalize and impress the teachings. Is this not good psychology? Certainly the Master followed the same plan in making his lessons live. They are inwoven with the incidents and stories which give them not only clarity but concreteness.

A rather close parallel in the New Testament to the Book of Mormon epic structure may be found in "The Acts of the Apostles." This likeness is shown, for example, in the story of the prophet Abinadi (See Mosiah chapters 11 to 17 inclusive). Here is a stirring account of a heroic man of God who, like Peter and Paul, carried the word of the Lord to the unbelieving and wicked, even though in the end it meant martyrdom. Abinadi, with the courage of Elijah before King Ahab, beards perverted King Noah and his apostate priests in the throne room of the erring monarch, and delivers his message of truth and light. He finally dies a martyr's death, yet not in vain. Abinadi's testimony goes to the heart and soul of one of the priests, Alma. And this heroic man after the prophet's cruel death, carries on through testing difficulties and dangers the work of God.

For the story of Abinadi itself, the class leader might sketch through the chapters named above. In chapter 11 we get the full setting. Chapter 12 carries forward the epic, giving in verses 1 to 8, God's prophetic warning to the evil-doers. Then comes the angry report of the priests to their king Abinadi's cross-examination before Noah and this LESSON DEPARTMENT prophet's searching questions to the perverted priests. There is a rush to slay the courageous leader but he withstands the onslaught, saying: Touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your hands upon me, for I have not delivered the message which the Lord sent me to deliver; neither have I told you that which ye requested that I should tell; therefore God will not suffer that I shall be destroyed at this time (Mosiah 13:3). Then to the maddened but cowed listeners he delivers boldly his words from God. The Ten Commandments are reimpressed. The priests and their king are chided for not teaching even these fundamentals. And saying that this is not enough "salvation doth not come by the law of Moses alone" (Mosiah 13:28), Abinadi portrays the vision of the Messiah to come, recalls the prophecies of Isaiah, and pictures with clarity the fulfillment of those inspired words through the coming of the Son of God the Savior and Redeemer of the world. To King Noah and his wicked priests all save Alma, such words are just heresy.

Abinadi, his courageous message delivered, is seized and imprisoned. Then he is given a chance to save himself by denying his testimony; but he will not. The king, fearful of the words of the prophet, would have released him, but the condemned priests will not have it so. Abinadi is seized, bound to a stake and the fire set. Yet even out of the flames he prophesies: Behold, even as ye have done unto me, so shall it come to pass that thy seed shall cause that many shall suffer even the pains of death by fire; and this because they believe in the salvation of the Lord their God.

563 And it will come to pass that ye shall be afflicted with all manner of diseases because of your iniquities, Yea, and ye shall be smitten on every hand, and shall be driven and scattered to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven by wild and ferocious beasts. And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye shall be taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer, the pains of death by fire.

Thus God executeth vengeance upon those who destroy his people. O God, receive my soul (Mosiah 17:15-19). Here in the story of Abinadi is drama of high quality impressing divine truth. 'The words of this dauntless prophet were fulfilled. And he did not die in vain for his great work was carried on by another heroic soul whom he inspired. Within the Book of Mormon epic are many like dramatic stories, impressing eternal principles of the gospel. A sequence of such stories is portrayed: the masterful work of Alma the elder in establishing the Church of Christ (Mosiah, chaps. 23, 24, 25); the fate of wicked King Noah (Mosiah, chapter 19); the impressive conversion of Alma's erring son, Alma, and the sons of King Mosiah to the gospel, and their courageous missionary work (Mosiah, 27-29). This second Alma, or Alma the younger, in the book of the same name, carries forward the epic. It is replete with stories, with truths of life made plain and concrete, and with stirring drama. Deeply impressive and moving is the part where Alma, Chief Judge and High Priest of his people, counsels his sons, Helaman, Shiblon, and Corianton (Alma, chaps. 36-42). Recounting his own wayward youth, his miraculous conversion (Mosiah 27:8-19) and after-zeal to do God's will, this leader gives to each of these sons lessons of deep import suited to their different natures. His father heart goes out particularly to Corianton who has sinned grievously, consorting with the harlot Isabel, and otherwise forgetting his heritage of righteousness. To this erring one the saving truths of the gospel are expounded with searching insight and power. It is a sermon of profound truth not alone for Corianton but for all the world. Such gems of spiritual truth as the following shine through the words of loving-kindness: Ye cannot hide your crimes from God; and except ye repent they will stand as a testimony against you at the last day (Alma 39:8). Seek not after riches nor the vain things of this world; for behold, you cannot carry them with you (Alma 39:14). No unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God (Mosiah 40:26). Wickedness never was happiness (Alma 41:10). Space permits only a glance at other stirring spiritual dramas in the great book. Pre-eminent among all of them is, of course, that which portrays with simple majesty the coming of Christ to the "other sheep of his fold" (See Third Nephi). Impressive evidence of the holding power of this story was given repeatedly a few years ago with the presentation of the pageant America's Witness for Christ at the Hill Cumorah. On one occasion the writer, with fully thirty thousand other folk of many creeds and classes (this an estimate of the state highway patrol), sat spellbound for two hours and more witnessing the unfolding in carefully selected and arranged scenes and lines taken in the main from the Book of Mormon. And finally, that other stirring last story of the sacred scripture picturing Moroni alone with the countless slain, and the records of gold he is charged to hide from the eyes of his enemies. This that the voice of God might in later years "speak from the dust." And lastly, the promise of this American prophet: And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4). Studies and Activities Note: For this study a copy of the Book of Mormon is essential. Let each member of the class provide herself with one. 1. Why may the Book of Mormon be called a "Book of Books"? B. What gives central purpose and unity to this "many-in-one volume"? 2. Explain briefly the term epic. B. Why may the word be applied to the story structure of the Book of Mormon as well as to the Old Testament? 3. Have someone read aloud expressively chapters two and three of I Nephi. B. Point out the basic qualities that make this an effective story. C. How might it be turned into a stirring little drama? 4. In what fundamental respect are the excellent stories of the Book of Mormon different from the stories commonly presented through fiction, on stages and screen today? Illustrate. 5. What preparedness is necessary to enhance appreciation and bring soul-lifting recreation from the Book of Mormon epic story? 6. Name two or more situations in the Book of Mormon that have stirring drama in them. Read, as time permits, selections portraying briefly such dramatic stories. Following are a few such scenes as might be given: a. Mosiah 27:8-19; b. Alma 39:1-5; Alma 46:11-22; Third Nephi 11:1-12, 565 Note: Since time during the lesson will not permit an in-depth discussion of all these selections, it is suggested that each class member select one or two to read and discuss. Social Science Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 2 Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, November 23, 1948 Objective: Book of Mormon POLITICAL theory is concerned with the relation of man and the State. To that extent, political theory is the "theology" of the State and its politics, just as religion explains the relation between God and man. Political theory arose in the Greek city-states and served about the same purposes that religious philosophy serves—explaining, however, state and political activity and helping men to accept and reconcile their individual views with the needs of the State, rather than the needs of the Church as in the case of religion. Good religious philosophy helps explain tithing. Similarly, a political philosophy helps explain taxes. The explanations are usually quite different, but similar purposes are served. A really remarkable religious philosophy, however, goes beyond an explanation of man-Church-God relationships. It explains or attempts to explain, the phenomena of all life and objects in the universe. Accordingly, modern man can derive much doctrine (or "political theory") of great import from the great religions, particularly Mormonism. A sound political theory must meet the tests of "all truth," including known or future facts. What do the doctrines of the Book of Mormon indicate for political thinking? The Nature of Man The nature of the State, whether it should be total or limited, depends largely on the answer to the question, what is a man? If man is mere animal material, the total State is probably as good as any, with power for its own sake as the highest good. On the other hand, if man has more than animal value, the State should recognize such values. The Book of Mormon, like other Christian scripture, teaches that man is valuable because he is the child of God. His destiny is not to be cannon fodder or the grist of concentration camps. Man is holy—any man. The State may be powerful, but God, too, is powerful.

And man as the child of God must be respected by the State, whether in its criminal code, welfare law, selective service administration, or garbage collection. "Men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil" (2 Nephi 2:5.) But men, left to themselves and the State, however humane, are insufficient to "save" themselves. "Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth." There is "opposition in all things" (verse 11) and men must strive with all means at their disposal to work out the earth problems including political problems. But these means, while not discounting human brains, skill, and planning, must yet take into account the true nature of man and the existence of God as a factor in the equation. Humane methods may be all right. But if God and the spiritual forces of the universe be discounted or ignored, such ignorance will lead to material error. For there is a God, and he hath created all things, both the heavens and the earth, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon (2 Nephi 2:14). And although God permits man to act for himself (verse 16), he can better act in view of the above facts if he wants the optimum result. Such is fundamental to political theory from the standpoint of Mormonism.

The Nature of Government

The Book of Mormon does not leave things at this point. The book contains a thousand-year profile of the rise, evolution through various forms, and fall of Nephite political institutions. From this experience emerges an interpretation of history more impressive to Latter-day Saints than the dialectical materialism of Karl Marx or the civilization-epoch-cycle theory of Oswald Spengler or A. J. Toynbee. This theory insists on the inclusion of God as a factor in civilization, as well as man, and can be stated as follows: When institutions, societies, or individuals conform to the demands of an expanding, growing concept of God's commands, they are prosperous and happy. When they depart therefrom, disease, decay, war, and destruction follow.

Accordingly, King Mosiah - says (chapter 29, verse 10) "Let us be wise... And do that which will make for the peace of this people." This he interpreted as striving to approximate the government of God, the ultimate standard, "for the judgments of God are always just." Mosiah (29:10-29) makes one of the best arguments for popular government found in scripture. One-man rule would be all right if the man would always be good. But such is not the case. Moreover, if one man holds all power, and he is evil, a most bloody revolution is required to throw the resisting tyrant out. Therefore, choose representative judges, he admonished, and let them follow majority views. But, said he, the people must bear the responsibility, "And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time the judgments of God will come upon you!"

The Welfare of the State

How, then, can government be kept "good," aside from the fact that its construction and operation recognize God's existence and man's sonship? By the people remaining "good" and by their voice demanding the good! But people, by God's act, are free to do or be good or evil! Goodness cannot be forced! How, then, secure the public welfare? Here the Book of Mormon takes its stand with President George Washington who stated in his Farewell Address that "of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports." Thus, when Nephite society was in a state of breakdown, similar to modern Europe, Alma the Chief Judge (Alma 4) launched no public relief program, "seeing no way that he might reclaim them (his people) save it were in bearing down in pure testimony against them."

And thus in the... Ninth year of the reign of the judges. _ Alma delivered up the judgment-seat to "Nephihah, and confined himself wholly to the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the testimony of the word, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy (Alma 4:19-20). The roots of the social and political maladies of mankind are thus to be found in the people's morals. Political remedies, accordingly, the Book of Mormon teaches, must get at the roots. 'To merely deal with the effects of problems will only aggravate the fundamental causes. Alma, chapters 45-63, tells another, longer story of the Nephite patriot, Moroni, and "the title of liberty" while IV Nephi depicts the ideal results that can be obtained if men will but pursue truth. Both accounts are worth rereading.

Thus the State may not accomplish everything! Indeed, the welfare of the State requires a vigorous, moral people. 'The State, as Hitler's and others', may attempt to administer and enforce State morality; but this, probably, only for the benefit of the holders of power. Free men require freedom for moral standards. Free churches and other associations, then, can best minister to this fundamental human need in freedom and diversity, separate and apart from the State.

Questions for Discussion

1. What are some tests of a sound political theory?
2. What is the Latter-day Saint conception of the origin, nature and destiny of man?
3. If mankind are the children of God, what essential rights should be maintained in organized society? Why?
4. Can a political theory be sound if it ignores the existence of God? Why not? What practical difference does it make? Does the particular concept held concerning God's nature make any difference, or can it be any kind of belief in God?
568

5. According to the Book of Mormon, how can good government be maintained?
6. How can people's morality be maintained at a high standard?
7. How do you view contemporary moral standards? In what respects are they high and low? How can contemporary standards be improved.
8. How do you think Alma, the great Nephite Judge, would handle such problems as the atomic bomb, traffic safety, human misery?

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948

Suggested References

Duruam, G. Homer: Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, pp. 3-15.

Book of Mormon: Mosiah, chapter 29; Alma, chapter 4. III Nephi 6:19 to 7:6. (An excellent example of social breakdown and anarchy.)

IV Nephi 1-17. (An inspiring account of what true religion can contribute to the political and social order.)

Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science

The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions)

Lesson 2 The Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith (continued) Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, November 23, 1948

THE PRESIDENCY A UNIT-THE THREE ARE ONE SIDNEY RIGDON JOSEPH SMITH FREDERICK G WILLIAMS Sidney Rigdon In many of the early revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord declared that a "marvelous work" was about to come forth on the earth and that the "field is white already to harvest." Nowhere is the truth of this figure of speech seen JOSEPH SMITH FREDERICK G.

WILLIAMS more clearly than in the preparatory work which the Lord had done in raising up men to assume positions of leadership in his Church. Sidney Rigdon, who served as first counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith from 1833 to 1844 exemplifies the realization of this promise to a remarkable degree. He was born in Pennsylvania on February 19, 1793. In his twenty-fifth year, he joined the "Regular Baptists" and soon was one of their licensed preachers. In the autumn of 1821, he became the full-time minister of the First Baptist Church in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and through his eloquent preaching soon built up a large congregation. But the spirit of the Lord was at work in preparation for the restoration of the gospel and Sidney resigned his pulpit after two years and turned to manual labor, being unable to satisfy his conscience with the doctrines he was preaching. His study of the Bible led him to the conclusion that the true Church of Christ, as he read of it in the New Testament, was not on the earth. About this time, he made the acquaintance of two professional teachers who were likewise dissatisfied with the existing forms of Christianity. These men, Alexander Campbell and Walter Scott, in association with Sidney Rigdon, soon commenced preaching the need of the "restoration of all things" of which they read in the Bible, and Sidney moved to Ohio where he became the minister of a large congregation of people who called themselves "Reformed Baptists" and then later "Disciples of Christ," but whom the people generally referred to as "Campbellites" after the dominant leader of the movement. These people preached that the true Christian Church should discard all man-made creeds, baptize by immersion only those who were capable of believing and had repented of their sins, and then held up to them the hope that God would ultimately restore the power by which the Holy Ghost could be conferred. At Mentor, Ohio, Sidney Rigdon was extremely popular and his influence was felt for many miles around, as he circuited about to other preaching stations for more than fifty miles from his home station. On one of these preaching missions to the west in the summer of 1829, he converted a young man from New York, Parley P. Pratt, who showed such ability as a preacher of the new doctrine that Parley was soon called to become a full-time minister for the "Campbellite" church. While engaged as a "Campbellite" missionary near Palmyra, New York, in August 1830, Parley heard of the Book of Mormon and the restoration of the gospel and soon accepted the truth. After converting some of his own family in New York State, Parley P. Pratt was called on a mission to the Indians. On the way he stopped at Mentor, Ohio, to acquaint his former friend, Sidney Rigdon, with the fact that the very thing they had been hoping would occur, had occurred, and that the true gospel had already been restored. Sidney Rigdon soon accepted the message as the fulfillment of his prayers and most of his large congregation followed him into the waters of baptism and spiritual regeneration, so well had he prepared them for the coming of the latter-day work. This was in November 1830, and the following month Sidney Rigdon went to visit the Prophet at Fayette, New York, and was called by revelation to preach the restored gospel (See section 35). From that time until the death of Joseph Smith, the two were closely associated in the leadership of the Church. On March 18, 1833, Sidney Rigdon was ordained and set apart as first counselor to Joseph Smith in the First Presidency of the Church and declared in a revelation to be accounted "... Equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom" (section go:6). President Rigdon undertook this work with zeal. To follow the inter-workings of these two men would require a volume. However, the important items of activities can be briefly mentioned. One of the first tasks they did together was in revising by revelation the King James version of the Bible, Joseph doing the revising and Sidney acting as the secretary. Together Joseph and Sidney received the great vision found in section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants. He accompanied the Prophet on various missions into Canada, Michigan, New York, Indiana, Illinois and Washington, D.C., in furtherance of the missionary work or the settlement of the saints' problems. When Joseph was absent from Church headquarters, such as in the summer of 1834 when he journeyed to and from Missouri with Zion's Camp, Sidney Rigdon directed the activities of the Church at Kirtland. President Rigdon was endowed with a gift of great eloquence, occupying the platform or pulpit on many important occasions. He stood firmly by the Prophet during the Missouri difficulties, spending part of the winter of 1838-1839 with Joseph and the other brethren in jail in Missouri, until his health failed and he was released. He did much good in Illinois in helping to gain a friendly welcome for the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 saints who were being exiled from Missouri. There was one element in his character that caused friction between him and the Prophet. He was self-willed and at times challenged the leadership of Joseph and the authority of the "revealed word," attempting to force his opinions upon the Prophet and upon the Church, with the result that the Prophet was forced to rebuke him. At general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo in October 1843, President Joseph Smith expressed dissatisfaction with him as a counselor and did not desire to retain him. Through the intercession of Hyrum Smith, however, he was retained in his office, but he never again seemed to manifest the spirit of leadership he had formerly possessed. He moved to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in the spring of 1844 with the intention of presiding over the branches of the Church in the eastern portion of the United States. The Prophet's martyrdom caused him to hurry back to Nauvoo where he pressed his claim as "guardian" of the Church, but the Quorum of the Twelve was sustained as the presiding authority of the Church and Sidney Rigdon, disappointed and embittered, was later excommunicated. He returned to Pennsylvania and then settled in New York where he organized a church on the pattern of the restored church but it did not succeed. He unwaveringly adhered to his original statement concerning the Book of Mormon, denying any statement imputing the authorship of the work to himself. His death occurred July 14, 1876. He had given much to the Church, but personal pride and love for authority overpowered the spirit of God in him.

Frederick G. Williams
When Parley P. Pratt and his missionary companions arrived in Ohio in the fall of 1830 on their way to Missouri, among the number they converted, in addition to Sidney Rigdon, was a man of varied abilities—Frederick G. Williams.

He was born in Connecticut on October 28, 1787, but as the rocky New England country had reached a saturation point in agricultural population, he journeyed with thousands of other Connecticut youths to northeastern Ohio, which Connecticut claimed was her "Western Reserve." There Frederick G. Williams prospered. He became an influential business man and took up the practice of Medicine. Few doctors on the frontier in those days were trained in medical college, but acquired their training by experience with other doctors or in taking correspondence courses in the properties of various herbs and chemical compounds. Such was the training of Dr. Williams, yet coupling this information with much good common sense and a clever ability to diagnose common ailments, he attained a fair measure of success in his profession.

Dr. Williams had become so well prepared for the acceptance of the restoration of the gospel by Sidney Rigdon and other "Campbellite" preachers that he embraced the new religion with heart and soul. Desirous of bending his efforts to the promotion of the cause and leaving his medical practice, he started off with Parley P. Pratt and the others turning to Ohio the following year, he forged to the front as a man of great leadership ability and when the First Presidency was organized on March 18, 1833, Elder Williams was set apart as second counselor to Joseph Smith, being eighteen years older than the Prophet. For about four years he labored diligently in this capacity, being declared equal with Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon in "...holding the keys of this last kingdom" (D. & C. 90:6). During these years, he accompanied the Prophet on the trip with Zion's Camp to Missouri. Returning to Kirtland, he worked diligently on the project for construction of the Kirtland Temple. With Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon he designed the interior of that sacred structure, and then gave liberally of his means for its construction.

When the Church printing plant at Independence, Missouri, was destroyed by mob violence in the summer of 1833, the Church was without a publication house to print its literature. President Williams, being financially able, took a leading part in establishing a printing office at Kirtland, known as "F. G. Williams and Company" and continued the publication of the Church periodical at Kirtland. With Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon, he was appointed to compile the revelations that the Prophet had received and prepare them for publication. This resulted in the publication of the first edition of the Doctrine and Covenants that was issued from his shop in Kirtland in the late summer of 1835. This was probably his most noteworthy accomplishment. His chief contribution to the

Church was his leadership in temporal matters.
The Prophet and President Williams commenced to have misunderstandings as the contended that the Prophet was exceeding his authority when he professed to receive revelations dealing with temporal matters. On the 7th of November, 1837, he was dropped as a member of the First Presidency during a conference held at Far West, Missouri, and Hyrum Smith replaced him. The estrangement became greater, and he was finally excommunicated from the Church in March 1839. But at the conference held in Nauvoo in April 1840, he appeared and asked to be readmitted to the Church. Prophesying over Smith plied his case for him; he was baptized and died in full fellowship at Quincy, Illinois, on October 10, 1842. His descendants came to Utah and are faithful members of the Church.
William Law
When Hyrum Smith was called to the office of Patriarch to the Church in 1841, the position of second counselor in the Presidency of the Church was filled by William Law. He was born in Canada in 1809, being four years younger than the Prophet. He was converted primarily by John Taylor and, some time in 1839, moved to Nauvoo where he soon became one of its leading business men. He was a member of the city council, operated a store and several mills, and was engaged in the real estate business and as a building contractor.
As a counselor in the First Presidency, his greatest support to Joseph Smith came from his advice.

Plan to enroll now for BUSINESS TRAINING Fall term begins Sept. 6, 1948 at L. D. S. Business College 5 to 8 P.M.
The fall term offers many opportunities. New classes in shorthand, accounting, typing, character education, and many others will begin the Tuesday following Labor Day.
The records of more than 60 years prove that L.D.S. Business College training pays.
Special rates for returned missionaries.
Write for free literature.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah

[Advertisement showing "1,346 CATALOGUED COLORS"]
THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN
Bennett's PAINT
Bring in a sample of almost any color you want to match ... any color in a fabric, wallpaper, flower or any other object ... and we will match it perfectly in paint.
BENNETT'S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho

Concerning the temporal affairs of the Church and the management of its business interests. This was a period of great growth in Nauvoo, and the Church was fostering many projects for the city's expansion. Toward the end of 1843 he began to show signs of apostacy and associated himself with the enemies of the Prophet and of the saints generally.

The result of this was his excommunication from the Church on April 18, 1844. He soon joined forces with other discontented factions and sponsored the publication of the much discussed Nauvoo Expositor, which contributed so much to the Prophet's assassination. He moved to Wisconsin, where he died on January 19, 1892, still bitter toward his former Prophet and the Latter-day Saints.

Topics for Discussion and Study
1. Read the glorious testimony contained in Doctrine and Covenants section 76:50-24.
2. What factors could lead a man who had received such a wonderful manifestation, as the vision of the three degrees of glory (see 76), to depart from the Church as did Frederick G. Williams?
3. Read a portion from the Inspired Version of the Bible, as contained in Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1 (Matthew 24) and note the improved quality of Joseph Smith's revision.
4. Read the statement of Sidney Rigdon's son John during his interview with President Snow and other Church leaders in Salt Lake City, Improvement Era 3:636-638.

References
Improvement Era, Vol. 3:77, 218, 265, 352, 487, 579, and 636-638.
Improvement Era, Vol. 42:736.
Improvement Era, Vol. 43:206.
Jenson, L.D.S. Biographical Encyclopedia Vol. 1.

SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO.
The new Sears store is completely air conditioned
. . . cool as a canyon breeze
Main or State at 9th South Salt Lake City Park Free
SEARS
Professional and Social Stationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULERS
DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Bickards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah
No Substitutes

In our years of food distribution, we have experienced that Nationally-known brands are better because they are packed to "quality standards" and not merely to sell at a price. We have the wellknown brands you want ... ... not something "just as good" ... and, too, you'll find it costs no more to buy better foods at O.P.S. food stores.
O.P. SKAGGS FOOD SYSTEM STORES

For a Well-balanced Mind—Well-balanced Education
Prospective leaders must be trained for success in their assigned callings, which will enable them to make their greatest contribution to society. The Utah State Agricultural College is sound, well-balanced education, which will fit them to make life a success and a pleasure, both to themselves and the society in which they live.
USAC is located in an ideal college town in beautiful Cache Valley in northern Utah. It is a clean city of fine homes and churches. The L.D.S. Institute of Religion, directed by Dr. Franklin L. West, aids student development.

Sixteen hundred courses are offered in the sixty departments of the following Schools:
Agriculture Forest, Range, and Commerce Wildlife Management Education Home Economics Engineering

FALL QUARTER Registration—September 23-25 Quarter Ends December 17
WINTER QUARTER Registration—January 3-5 Quarter Ends March 18

For Catalog, address the President
UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Logan

The Clock Without Hands
Jennie Scowl Dasenberry

THE other day while walking along the streets of a large city I came across a most extraordinary window display. I will only speak of the thing which stood out more than anything else. It was a clock without hands. I could hear the "tick-tick" of it as plainly as my own heart beat. Inspecting the works more closely, I found that the clock seemed to be in the best of condition, with one exception. Its face had the numbers of the hours, but no hands upon it. As I stood there thinking of the fitting except the clock seemed to be in the best of condition, with one exception. Its face had the numbers and that was the one thing for which the clock had been made. I waited and put the window.
I was not thinking of clocks. I was thinking of people, whose lives are full of motion and activity, but the motion never amounts to anything. The activity never works out in definite achievement. They are like clocks without hands.

As I thought of the people whom I knew, in all walks of life, they started hours and began their activity, the very purpose for which they are in this world. You can hear the "tick-tick" of their lives. But you can never tell the time by them. Their lives are as empty of moral and spiritual meaning as the clock without hands. They are wound up; they are running; but they never indicate the time. The people who indicate time never keep time; they are a part of the waste material of the world.

SUMMER SHINES WITH SILKEN SHOWERS
Helen Martin Horne

Summer shines with silken showers On mountains to the south.
Blends odors from the freshening flowers When evening drops the sun.
From pine-ribbed hills and canyon nooks A pungent smell she takes To scent the breeze that bends the trees, And sports the mountain lakes.

The summer lends to the fall Her colors brightly blended; But artful fall retints them all When summertime is ended.

CINDERELLAS
Katie Harris Lewis

A weed in the moonlight Is lovely to see; And the generous moon Lends beauty to me.

BISHOP HYDE
Michael Burson

It was God's will I led you As it is now his will That calls me from his people For greater service still.

I would be with you longer For I have loved you much, I'd fill our fields and flowers Beneath the sun's warm touch

I would be here to counsel Wherever need might be, Yet I am but the servant And God the seed of me.

But falter not, my loved ones, Although I cannot stay To lead as I have led you— God points a better way.

ONE NAME ? ONE QUALITY ? ONE PRICE
There is only ONE
LESTER Betsy Ross Spinet

Achievement in pianobuilding at its very best ... result of 36 years of uninterrupted experience.

EASY BUDGET TERMS AVAILABLE
Please forward complete information about Lester Betsy Ross Spinets.
Name_________________
Address_______________

FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY
Daynes Music Co.
45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

Near and Sar Mrs. Nellie A. Harter of the Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake, has made a remarkable record in securing 112 Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in a ward having only thirty-seven members of the Society. Six subscriptions were sold to widowers, eight to non-members of the Church, and many were gifts for Christmas, birthdays, weddings, missionaries, shut-ins, and widows. Mrs. Harter has a sister Regine Nilsen, of Horten, Norway, whom she has never seen, but Mrs. Nilsen is a reader of The Relief Society Magazine. She saw Mrs. Harter's picture with a group of Magazine representatives (April 1947) and was delighted with this pleasant visit through the pages of the Magazine. Mrs. Harter wrote her sister: "This Relief Society Magazine has made it possible for us to join hands across the sea, and even though we have not seen one another in person, we have the same warm, affectionate, sisterly love in our hearts which will bind us together always."

Edith Russel, a young English writer, now living in Utah, is the author of "The Russels Did Not Go to Church," a three part story beginning in this issue. Miss Russell says: "When I was nine years old we moved to a tiny house in the village of Cottingley, close to the fringe of the Haworth moors and a mere five miles from the haunted shell of 'Wuthering Heights' itself. One year after my baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I became a missionary and was honored by a call to become the only woman ever to edit Millennial Star. During these years, my country was at war, and London, our headquarters, proved a noisy, somewhat dangerous adventure. Then—came an invitation to leave England for the U.S.A. To attend an American university, and I to whom school had always been the privilege of 'the other fellow,' thought I heard the angels sing!"

Page 576

Deone R. Sutherland, author of "Aunt Millenium," a daughter of the poet Linnie Fisher Robinson, is one of the most promising of Utah's young literary women. By editorial request Deone writes: "I graduated from the University of Utah in 1945 after having edited the literary Magazine and participating in some drama. I continued teaching in the English department, freshman English, for two years. In the summer of 1947 I attended the University of Iowa and enjoyed the writer's workshop very much, but I returned in the fall to marry Harold Pratt Sutherland in the Salt Lake Temple. We have lived in Beaver for the past eight months and Harold has taught English in the high school. As to the future well, we're going to Stanford this summer."

I wish to thank you for the promptness of the Magazine which reaches me way up here in Sweden. During the two years of my mission I have enjoyed it immensely. The Relief Society of Whittier Ward, Salt Lake City, gave me a two year's subscription as a present when I left. I have translated many features from the Magazine in Swedish and it has helped me in Relief Society work and missionary work in general. It might interest you to know that my husband finds the Magazine just as interesting.

Amy Lundevall, Olaigatan, Orebro, Sweden

Sister Lillian Nielsen of Three Forks, Montana, has bought material and has recently made 64 pieces of clothing for children between six months and four years old. Because she lives on a farm, miles away from a branch of the Church, Sister Nielsen cannot attend meetings, but she can and does follow the work of Relief Society through reading the Magazine. She is the mother of a large family and yet she finds time to sew for others and to contribute many hours of unselfish service.

TEACH THE LIFE OF CHRIST WITH PICTURES

Four sets, comprising 63 four color 19" x 23" pictures
Set One: (15 pictures) Nativity, Shepherds, Wise men, Babe in the Temple, Flight into Egypt, Boy Jesus in the Temple, Among the Doctors, Temptations, Miracles: Healing the Woman, Walks on the Water, Dumb Man Healed, Deaf Man Healed, Blind Man Healed, Draught of Fishes, Calms the Storm.
Set Two: (16 pictures) Feeding Five Thousand, Heals the Lepers, Man at the Pool, Jairus' Daughter, Lazarus; Parables: Sower, Leaven, Wheat and Tares, Pounds and Talents, Ten Virgins, Prodigal Son, Good Samaritan, Pharisees, Fishermen, Disciples in Grain Field.
Set Three: (16 pictures) Jesus Chooses Disciples, Clears the Temple, Children, (Hoffman), (Plockhorst), Consider the Lilies, Mary and Martha, Speaks from the Boat, Woman at the Well, Other Sheep, Nicodemus, Peter's Confession, Peace Be Unto This House, Rich Young Ruler, Come Unto Me, Twelve Sent Forth, Transfiguration.
Set Four: (16 pictures) Entering Jerusalem, Last Supper, Gethsemane, Praying, Arrest of Jesus, Jesus and Peter, Jesus and Pilate, Pilate Washes His Hands, Before Caiaphas, Guards Cast Lots, He Is Risen, On Way to Emmaus, At Emmaus, Appears to Apostles, Great Commission, The Ascension.

Each Set $2.00

DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah

Please send me LIFE OF CHRIST picture sets as follows: At $2.00 each.
Oe Address......Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers

U.S. POSTAGE 2 
Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690

SYMBUL OF THRIFT
Among priceless heritages left by our pioneer mothers is the custom of providing a bounteous supply of fruits for the long winter months. In this generation, the housewife who stocks her shelves with jars of choice fresh fruits, jams, and jellies, preserved and sweetened with pure, home-produced sugar, has learned well the lesson of prudent care for her family. Perfect for canning, cooking, freezing, or table use.

UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY
