Title: Social Science: Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon
Author: Elder G. Homer Durham
Page: 565
Section: Work Meeting Sewing: Remodeling Dresses Jean Ridges Jennings 559

Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, November 23, 1948 Objective: Book of Mormon POLITICAL theory is concerned with the relation of man and the State. To that extent, political theory is the "theology" of the State and its politics, just as religion explains the relation between God and man. Political theory arose in the Greek city-states and served about the same purposes that religious philosophy serves—explaining, however, state and political activity and helping men to accept and reconcile their individual views with the needs of the State, rather than the needs of the Church as in the case of religion. Good religious philosophy helps explain tithing. Similarly, a political philosophy helps explain taxes. The explanations are usually quite different, but similar purposes are served. A really remarkable religious philosophy, however, goes beyond an explanation of man-Church-God relationships. It explains or attempts to explain, the phenomena of all life and objects in the universe. Accordingly, modern man can derive much doctrine (or "political theory") of great import from the great religions, particularly Mormonism. A sound political theory must meet the tests of "all truth," including known or future facts. What do the doctrines of the Book of Mormon indicate for political thinking? The Nature of Man The nature of the State, whether it should be total or limited, depends largely on the answer to the question, what is a man? If man is mere animal material, the total State is probably as good as any, with power for its own sake as the highest good. On the other hand, if man has more than animal value, the State should recognize such values. The Book of Mormon, like other Christian scripture, teaches that man is valuable because he is the child of God. His destiny is not to be cannon fodder or the grist of concentration camps. Man is holy—any man. The State may be powerful, but God, too, is powerful.

And man as the child of God must be respected by the State, whether in its criminal code, welfare law, selective service administration, or garbage collection. "Men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil" (2 Nephi 2:5.) But men, left to themselves and the State, however humane, are insufficient to "save" themselves. "Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth." There is "opposition in all things" (verse 11) and men must strive with all means at their disposal to work out the earth problems including political problems. But these means, while not discounting human brains, skill, and planning, must yet take into account the true nature of man and the existence of God as a factor in the equation. Humane methods may be all right. But if God and the spiritual forces of the universe be discounted or ignored, such ignorance will lead to material error. For there is a God, and he hath created all things, both the heavens and the earth, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon (2 Nephi 2:14). And although God permits man to act for himself (verse 16), he can better act in view of the above facts if he wants the optimum result. Such is fundamental to political theory from the standpoint of Mormonism.

The Nature of Government

The Book of Mormon does not leave things at this point. The book contains a thousand-year profile of the rise, evolution through various forms, and fall of Nephite political institutions. From this experience emerges an interpretation of history more impressive to Latter-day Saints than the dialectical materialism of Karl Marx or the civilization-epoch-cycle theory of Oswald Spengler or A. J. Toynbee. This theory insists on the inclusion of God as a factor in civilization, as well as man, and can be stated as follows: When institutions, societies, or individuals conform to the demands of an expanding, growing concept of God's commands, they are prosperous and happy. When they depart therefrom, disease, decay, war, and destruction follow.

Accordingly, King Mosiah - says (chapter 29, verse 10) "Let us be wise... And do that which will make for the peace of this people." This he interpreted as striving to approximate the government of God, the ultimate standard, "for the judgments of God are always just." Mosiah (29:10-29) makes one of the best arguments for popular government found in scripture. One-man rule would be all right if the man would always be good. But such is not the case. Moreover, if one man holds all power, and he is evil, a most bloody revolution is required to throw the resisting tyrant out. Therefore, choose representative judges, he admonished, and let them follow majority views. But, said he, the people must bear the responsibility, "And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time the judgments of God will come upon you!"

The Welfare of the State

How, then, can government be kept "good," aside from the fact that its construction and operation recognize God's existence and man's sonship? By the people remaining "good" and by their voice demanding the good! But people, by God's act, are free to do or be good or evil! Goodness cannot be forced! How, then, secure the public welfare? Here the Book of Mormon takes its stand with President George Washington who stated in his Farewell Address that "of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports." Thus, when Nephite society was in a state of breakdown, similar to modern Europe, Alma the Chief Judge (Alma 4) launched no public relief program, "seeing no way that he might reclaim them (his people) save it were in bearing down in pure testimony against them."

And thus in the... Ninth year of the reign of the judges. _ Alma delivered up the judgment-seat to "Nephihah, and confined himself wholly to the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the testimony of the word, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy (Alma 4:19-20). The roots of the social and political maladies of mankind are thus to be found in the people's morals. Political remedies, accordingly, the Book of Mormon teaches, must get at the roots. 'To merely deal with the effects of problems will only aggravate the fundamental causes. Alma, chapters 45-63, tells another, longer story of the Nephite patriot, Moroni, and "the title of liberty" while IV Nephi depicts the ideal results that can be obtained if men will but pursue truth. Both accounts are worth rereading.

Thus the State may not accomplish everything! Indeed, the welfare of the State requires a vigorous, moral people. 'The State, as Hitler's and others', may attempt to administer and enforce State morality; but this, probably, only for the benefit of the holders of power. Free men require freedom for moral standards. Free churches and other associations, then, can best minister to this fundamental human need in freedom and diversity, separate and apart from the State.

Questions for Discussion

1. What are some tests of a sound political theory?
2. What is the Latter-day Saint conception of the origin, nature and destiny of man?
3. If mankind are the children of God, what essential rights should be maintained in organized society? Why?
4. Can a political theory be sound if it ignores the existence of God? Why not? What practical difference does it make? Does the particular concept held concerning God's nature make any difference, or can it be any kind of belief in God?
568

5. According to the Book of Mormon, how can good government be maintained?
6. How can people's morality be maintained at a high standard?
7. How do you view contemporary moral standards? In what respects are they high and low? How can contemporary standards be improved.
8. How do you think Alma, the great Nephite Judge, would handle such problems as the atomic bomb, traffic safety, human misery?

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948

Suggested References

Duruam, G. Homer: Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, pp. 3-15.

Book of Mormon: Mosiah, chapter 29; Alma, chapter 4. III Nephi 6:19 to 7:6. (An excellent example of social breakdown and anarchy.)

IV Nephi 1-17. (An inspiring account of what true religion can contribute to the political and social order.)

Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science

The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions)

Lesson 2 The Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith (continued) Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, November 23, 1948

THE PRESIDENCY A UNIT-THE THREE ARE ONE SIDNEY RIGDON JOSEPH SMITH FREDERICK G WILLIAMS Sidney Rigdon In many of the early revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord declared that a "marvelous work" was about to come forth on the earth and that the "field is white already to harvest." Nowhere is the truth of this figure of speech seen JOSEPH SMITH FREDERICK G.

WILLIAMS more clearly than in the preparatory work which the Lord had done in raising up men to assume positions of leadership in his Church. Sidney Rigdon, who served as first counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith from 1833 to 1844 exemplifies the realization of this promise to a remarkable degree. He was born in Pennsylvania on February 19, 1793. In his twenty-fifth year, he joined the "Regular Baptists" and soon was one of their licensed preachers. In the autumn of 1821, he became the full-time minister of the First Baptist Church in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and through his eloquent preaching soon built up a large congregation. But the spirit of the Lord was at work in preparation for the restoration of the gospel and Sidney resigned his pulpit after two years and turned to manual labor, being unable to satisfy his conscience with the doctrines he was preaching. His study of the Bible led him to the conclusion that the true Church of Christ, as he read of it in the New Testament, was not on the earth. About this time, he made the acquaintance of two professional teachers who were likewise dissatisfied with the existing forms of Christianity. These men, Alexander Campbell and Walter Scott, in association with Sidney Rigdon, soon commenced preaching the need of the "restoration of all things" of which they read in the Bible, and Sidney moved to Ohio where he became the minister of a large congregation of people who called themselves "Reformed Baptists" and then later "Disciples of Christ," but whom the people generally referred to as "Campbellites" after the dominant leader of the movement. These people preached that the true Christian Church should discard all man-made creeds, baptize by immersion only those who were capable of believing and had repented of their sins, and then held up to them the hope that God would ultimately restore the power by which the Holy Ghost could be conferred. At Mentor, Ohio, Sidney Rigdon was extremely popular and his influence was felt for many miles around, as he circuited about to other preaching stations for more than fifty miles from his home station. On one of these preaching missions to the west in the summer of 1829, he converted a young man from New York, Parley P. Pratt, who showed such ability as a preacher of the new doctrine that Parley was soon called to become a full-time minister for the "Campbellite" church. While engaged as a "Campbellite" missionary near Palmyra, New York, in August 1830, Parley heard of the Book of Mormon and the restoration of the gospel and soon accepted the truth. After converting some of his own family in New York State, Parley P. Pratt was called on a mission to the Indians. On the way he stopped at Mentor, Ohio, to acquaint his former friend, Sidney Rigdon, with the fact that the very thing they had been hoping would occur, had occurred, and that the true gospel had already been restored. Sidney Rigdon soon accepted the message as the fulfillment of his prayers and most of his large congregation followed him into the waters of baptism and spiritual regeneration, so well had he prepared them for the coming of the latter-day work. This was in November 1830, and the following month Sidney Rigdon went to visit the Prophet at Fayette, New York, and was called by revelation to preach the restored gospel (See section 35). From that time until the death of Joseph Smith, the two were closely associated in the leadership of the Church. On March 18, 1833, Sidney Rigdon was ordained and set apart as first counselor to Joseph Smith in the First Presidency of the Church and declared in a revelation to be accounted "... Equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom" (section go:6). President Rigdon undertook this work with zeal. To follow the inter-workings of these two men would require a volume. However, the important items of activities can be briefly mentioned. One of the first tasks they did together was in revising by revelation the King James version of the Bible, Joseph doing the revising and Sidney acting as the secretary. Together Joseph and Sidney received the great vision found in section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants. He accompanied the Prophet on various missions into Canada, Michigan, New York, Indiana, Illinois and Washington, D.C., in furtherance of the missionary work or the settlement of the saints' problems. When Joseph was absent from Church headquarters, such as in the summer of 1834 when he journeyed to and from Missouri with Zion's Camp, Sidney Rigdon directed the activities of the Church at Kirtland. President Rigdon was endowed with a gift of great eloquence, occupying the platform or pulpit on many important occasions. He stood firmly by the Prophet during the Missouri difficulties, spending part of the winter of 1838-1839 with Joseph and the other brethren in jail in Missouri, until his health failed and he was released. He did much good in Illinois in helping to gain a friendly welcome for the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 saints who were being exiled from Missouri. There was one element in his character that caused friction between him and the Prophet. He was self-willed and at times challenged the leadership of Joseph and the authority of the "revealed word," attempting to force his opinions upon the Prophet and upon the Church, with the result that the Prophet was forced to rebuke him. At general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo in October 1843, President Joseph Smith expressed dissatisfaction with him as a counselor and did not desire to retain him. Through the intercession of Hyrum Smith, however, he was retained in his office, but he never again seemed to manifest the spirit of leadership he had formerly possessed. He moved to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in the spring of 1844 with the intention of presiding over the branches of the Church in the eastern portion of the United States. The Prophet's martyrdom caused him to hurry back to Nauvoo where he pressed his claim as "guardian" of the Church, but the Quorum of the Twelve was sustained as the presiding authority of the Church and Sidney Rigdon, disappointed and embittered, was later excommunicated. He returned to Pennsylvania and then settled in New York where he organized a church on the pattern of the restored church but it did not succeed. He unwaveringly adhered to his original statement concerning the Book of Mormon, denying any statement imputing the authorship of the work to himself. His death occurred July 14, 1876. He had given much to the Church, but personal pride and love for authority overpowered the spirit of God in him.

Frederick G. Williams
When Parley P. Pratt and his missionary companions arrived in Ohio in the fall of 1830 on their way to Missouri, among the number they converted, in addition to Sidney Rigdon, was a man of varied abilities—Frederick G. Williams.

He was born in Connecticut on October 28, 1787, but as the rocky New England country had reached a saturation point in agricultural population, he journeyed with thousands of other Connecticut youths to northeastern Ohio, which Connecticut claimed was her "Western Reserve." There Frederick G. Williams prospered. He became an influential business man and took up the practice of Medicine. Few doctors on the frontier in those days were trained in medical college, but acquired their training by experience with other doctors or in taking correspondence courses in the properties of various herbs and chemical compounds. Such was the training of Dr. Williams, yet coupling this information with much good common sense and a clever ability to diagnose common ailments, he attained a fair measure of success in his profession.

Dr. Williams had become so well prepared for the acceptance of the restoration of the gospel by Sidney Rigdon and other "Campbellite" preachers that he embraced the new religion with heart and soul. Desirous of bending his efforts to the promotion of the cause and leaving his medical practice, he started off with Parley P. Pratt and the others turning to Ohio the following year, he forged to the front as a man of great leadership ability and when the First Presidency was organized on March 18, 1833, Elder Williams was set apart as second counselor to Joseph Smith, being eighteen years older than the Prophet. For about four years he labored diligently in this capacity, being declared equal with Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon in "...holding the keys of this last kingdom" (D. & C. 90:6). During these years, he accompanied the Prophet on the trip with Zion's Camp to Missouri. Returning to Kirtland, he worked diligently on the project for construction of the Kirtland Temple. With Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon he designed the interior of that sacred structure, and then gave liberally of his means for its construction.

When the Church printing plant at Independence, Missouri, was destroyed by mob violence in the summer of 1833, the Church was without a publication house to print its literature. President Williams, being financially able, took a leading part in establishing a printing office at Kirtland, known as "F. G. Williams and Company" and continued the publication of the Church periodical at Kirtland. With Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon, he was appointed to compile the revelations that the Prophet had received and prepare them for publication. This resulted in the publication of the first edition of the Doctrine and Covenants that was issued from his shop in Kirtland in the late summer of 1835. This was probably his most noteworthy accomplishment. His chief contribution to the

Church was his leadership in temporal matters.
The Prophet and President Williams commenced to have misunderstandings as the contended that the Prophet was exceeding his authority when he professed to receive revelations dealing with temporal matters. On the 7th of November, 1837, he was dropped as a member of the First Presidency during a conference held at Far West, Missouri, and Hyrum Smith replaced him. The estrangement became greater, and he was finally excommunicated from the Church in March 1839. But at the conference held in Nauvoo in April 1840, he appeared and asked to be readmitted to the Church. Prophesying over Smith plied his case for him; he was baptized and died in full fellowship at Quincy, Illinois, on October 10, 1842. His descendants came to Utah and are faithful members of the Church.
William Law
When Hyrum Smith was called to the office of Patriarch to the Church in 1841, the position of second counselor in the Presidency of the Church was filled by William Law. He was born in Canada in 1809, being four years younger than the Prophet. He was converted primarily by John Taylor and, some time in 1839, moved to Nauvoo where he soon became one of its leading business men. He was a member of the city council, operated a store and several mills, and was engaged in the real estate business and as a building contractor.
As a counselor in the First Presidency, his greatest support to Joseph Smith came from his advice.

Plan to enroll now for BUSINESS TRAINING Fall term begins Sept. 6, 1948 at L. D. S. Business College 5 to 8 P.M.
The fall term offers many opportunities. New classes in shorthand, accounting, typing, character education, and many others will begin the Tuesday following Labor Day.
The records of more than 60 years prove that L.D.S. Business College training pays.
Special rates for returned missionaries.
Write for free literature.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah

[Advertisement showing "1,346 CATALOGUED COLORS"]
THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN
Bennett's PAINT
Bring in a sample of almost any color you want to match ... any color in a fabric, wallpaper, flower or any other object ... and we will match it perfectly in paint.
BENNETT'S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho

Concerning the temporal affairs of the Church and the management of its business interests. This was a period of great growth in Nauvoo, and the Church was fostering many projects for the city's expansion. Toward the end of 1843 he began to show signs of apostacy and associated himself with the enemies of the Prophet and of the saints generally.

The result of this was his excommunication from the Church on April 18, 1844. He soon joined forces with other discontented factions and sponsored the publication of the much discussed Nauvoo Expositor, which contributed so much to the Prophet's assassination. He moved to Wisconsin, where he died on January 19, 1892, still bitter toward his former Prophet and the Latter-day Saints.

Topics for Discussion and Study
1. Read the glorious testimony contained in Doctrine and Covenants section 76:50-24.
2. What factors could lead a man who had received such a wonderful manifestation, as the vision of the three degrees of glory (see 76), to depart from the Church as did Frederick G. Williams?
3. Read a portion from the Inspired Version of the Bible, as contained in Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1 (Matthew 24) and note the improved quality of Joseph Smith's revision.
4. Read the statement of Sidney Rigdon's son John during his interview with President Snow and other Church leaders in Salt Lake City, Improvement Era 3:636-638.

References
Improvement Era, Vol. 3:77, 218, 265, 352, 487, 579, and 636-638.
Improvement Era, Vol. 42:736.
Improvement Era, Vol. 43:206.
Jenson, L.D.S. Biographical Encyclopedia Vol. 1.

SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO.
The new Sears store is completely air conditioned
. . . cool as a canyon breeze
Main or State at 9th South Salt Lake City Park Free
SEARS
Professional and Social Stationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULERS
DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Bickards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah
No Substitutes

In our years of food distribution, we have experienced that Nationally-known brands are better because they are packed to "quality standards" and not merely to sell at a price. We have the wellknown brands you want ... ... not something "just as good" ... and, too, you'll find it costs no more to buy better foods at O.P.S. food stores.
O.P. SKAGGS FOOD SYSTEM STORES

For a Well-balanced Mind—Well-balanced Education
Prospective leaders must be trained for success in their assigned callings, which will enable them to make their greatest contribution to society. The Utah State Agricultural College is sound, well-balanced education, which will fit them to make life a success and a pleasure, both to themselves and the society in which they live.
USAC is located in an ideal college town in beautiful Cache Valley in northern Utah. It is a clean city of fine homes and churches. The L.D.S. Institute of Religion, directed by Dr. Franklin L. West, aids student development.

Sixteen hundred courses are offered in the sixty departments of the following Schools:
Agriculture Forest, Range, and Commerce Wildlife Management Education Home Economics Engineering

FALL QUARTER Registration—September 23-25 Quarter Ends December 17
WINTER QUARTER Registration—January 3-5 Quarter Ends March 18

For Catalog, address the President
UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Logan

The Clock Without Hands
Jennie Scowl Dasenberry

THE other day while walking along the streets of a large city I came across a most extraordinary window display. I will only speak of the thing which stood out more than anything else. It was a clock without hands. I could hear the "tick-tick" of it as plainly as my own heart beat. Inspecting the works more closely, I found that the clock seemed to be in the best of condition, with one exception. Its face had the numbers of the hours, but no hands upon it. As I stood there thinking of the fitting except the clock seemed to be in the best of condition, with one exception. Its face had the numbers and that was the one thing for which the clock had been made. I waited and put the window.
I was not thinking of clocks. I was thinking of people, whose lives are full of motion and activity, but the motion never amounts to anything. The activity never works out in definite achievement. They are like clocks without hands.

As I thought of the people whom I knew, in all walks of life, they started hours and began their activity, the very purpose for which they are in this world. You can hear the "tick-tick" of their lives. But you can never tell the time by them. Their lives are as empty of moral and spiritual meaning as the clock without hands. They are wound up; they are running; but they never indicate the time. The people who indicate time never keep time; they are a part of the waste material of the world.

SUMMER SHINES WITH SILKEN SHOWERS
Helen Martin Horne

Summer shines with silken showers On mountains to the south.
Blends odors from the freshening flowers When evening drops the sun.
From pine-ribbed hills and canyon nooks A pungent smell she takes To scent the breeze that bends the trees, And sports the mountain lakes.

The summer lends to the fall Her colors brightly blended; But artful fall retints them all When summertime is ended.

CINDERELLAS
Katie Harris Lewis

A weed in the moonlight Is lovely to see; And the generous moon Lends beauty to me.

BISHOP HYDE
Michael Burson

It was God's will I led you As it is now his will That calls me from his people For greater service still.

I would be with you longer For I have loved you much, I'd fill our fields and flowers Beneath the sun's warm touch

I would be here to counsel Wherever need might be, Yet I am but the servant And God the seed of me.

But falter not, my loved ones, Although I cannot stay To lead as I have led you— God points a better way.

ONE NAME ? ONE QUALITY ? ONE PRICE
There is only ONE
LESTER Betsy Ross Spinet

Achievement in pianobuilding at its very best ... result of 36 years of uninterrupted experience.

EASY BUDGET TERMS AVAILABLE
Please forward complete information about Lester Betsy Ross Spinets.
Name_________________
Address_______________

FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY
Daynes Music Co.
45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

Near and Sar Mrs. Nellie A. Harter of the Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake, has made a remarkable record in securing 112 Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in a ward having only thirty-seven members of the Society. Six subscriptions were sold to widowers, eight to non-members of the Church, and many were gifts for Christmas, birthdays, weddings, missionaries, shut-ins, and widows. Mrs. Harter has a sister Regine Nilsen, of Horten, Norway, whom she has never seen, but Mrs. Nilsen is a reader of The Relief Society Magazine. She saw Mrs. Harter's picture with a group of Magazine representatives (April 1947) and was delighted with this pleasant visit through the pages of the Magazine. Mrs. Harter wrote her sister: "This Relief Society Magazine has made it possible for us to join hands across the sea, and even though we have not seen one another in person, we have the same warm, affectionate, sisterly love in our hearts which will bind us together always."

Edith Russel, a young English writer, now living in Utah, is the author of "The Russels Did Not Go to Church," a three part story beginning in this issue. Miss Russell says: "When I was nine years old we moved to a tiny house in the village of Cottingley, close to the fringe of the Haworth moors and a mere five miles from the haunted shell of 'Wuthering Heights' itself. One year after my baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I became a missionary and was honored by a call to become the only woman ever to edit Millennial Star. During these years, my country was at war, and London, our headquarters, proved a noisy, somewhat dangerous adventure. Then—came an invitation to leave England for the U.S.A. To attend an American university, and I to whom school had always been the privilege of 'the other fellow,' thought I heard the angels sing!"

Page 576

Deone R. Sutherland, author of "Aunt Millenium," a daughter of the poet Linnie Fisher Robinson, is one of the most promising of Utah's young literary women. By editorial request Deone writes: "I graduated from the University of Utah in 1945 after having edited the literary Magazine and participating in some drama. I continued teaching in the English department, freshman English, for two years. In the summer of 1947 I attended the University of Iowa and enjoyed the writer's workshop very much, but I returned in the fall to marry Harold Pratt Sutherland in the Salt Lake Temple. We have lived in Beaver for the past eight months and Harold has taught English in the high school. As to the future well, we're going to Stanford this summer."

I wish to thank you for the promptness of the Magazine which reaches me way up here in Sweden. During the two years of my mission I have enjoyed it immensely. The Relief Society of Whittier Ward, Salt Lake City, gave me a two year's subscription as a present when I left. I have translated many features from the Magazine in Swedish and it has helped me in Relief Society work and missionary work in general. It might interest you to know that my husband finds the Magazine just as interesting.

Amy Lundevall, Olaigatan, Orebro, Sweden

Sister Lillian Nielsen of Three Forks, Montana, has bought material and has recently made 64 pieces of clothing for children between six months and four years old. Because she lives on a farm, miles away from a branch of the Church, Sister Nielsen cannot attend meetings, but she can and does follow the work of Relief Society through reading the Magazine. She is the mother of a large family and yet she finds time to sew for others and to contribute many hours of unselfish service.

TEACH THE LIFE OF CHRIST WITH PICTURES

Four sets, comprising 63 four color 19" x 23" pictures
Set One: (15 pictures) Nativity, Shepherds, Wise men, Babe in the Temple, Flight into Egypt, Boy Jesus in the Temple, Among the Doctors, Temptations, Miracles: Healing the Woman, Walks on the Water, Dumb Man Healed, Deaf Man Healed, Blind Man Healed, Draught of Fishes, Calms the Storm.
Set Two: (16 pictures) Feeding Five Thousand, Heals the Lepers, Man at the Pool, Jairus' Daughter, Lazarus; Parables: Sower, Leaven, Wheat and Tares, Pounds and Talents, Ten Virgins, Prodigal Son, Good Samaritan, Pharisees, Fishermen, Disciples in Grain Field.
Set Three: (16 pictures) Jesus Chooses Disciples, Clears the Temple, Children, (Hoffman), (Plockhorst), Consider the Lilies, Mary and Martha, Speaks from the Boat, Woman at the Well, Other Sheep, Nicodemus, Peter's Confession, Peace Be Unto This House, Rich Young Ruler, Come Unto Me, Twelve Sent Forth, Transfiguration.
Set Four: (16 pictures) Entering Jerusalem, Last Supper, Gethsemane, Praying, Arrest of Jesus, Jesus and Peter, Jesus and Pilate, Pilate Washes His Hands, Before Caiaphas, Guards Cast Lots, He Is Risen, On Way to Emmaus, At Emmaus, Appears to Apostles, Great Commission, The Ascension.

Each Set $2.00

DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah

Please send me LIFE OF CHRIST picture sets as follows: At $2.00 each.
Oe Address......Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers

U.S. POSTAGE 2 
Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690

SYMBUL OF THRIFT
Among priceless heritages left by our pioneer mothers is the custom of providing a bounteous supply of fruits for the long winter months. In this generation, the housewife who stocks her shelves with jars of choice fresh fruits, jams, and jellies, preserved and sweetened with pure, home-produced sugar, has learned well the lesson of prudent care for her family. Perfect for canning, cooking, freezing, or table use.

UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY
