Municipal Hospitals in Alberta, Canada By Dora H. Jacobs N order to give a concrete example of how the Municipal Hospital Act operates, I will cite the Cardston Municipal Hospital District. In this district there are five units or subdivisions—four rural and one urban unit. The urban unit is the Town of Cardston. In the rural units there is an area of 508,197 acres. The district serves about 7000 people. Before a hospital district is established, a petition is sent to the Minister of Health of the Province. Which petition is signed by at least 10% of the rate payers or tax payers in the particular units seeking-to be formed into a district. This petition contains the proposed hospital scheme. The scheme sets forth on what terms and conditions the rate payers desire to be formed into a district. After receiving the approval of the Minister, the scheme is voted on by the hospital rate payers in the proposed district. If the scheme is ratified by vote, it then becomes the constitution of the said hospital district. Each unit has a representative on the hospital board which forms the governing body of the hospital district. The board has powers for carrying out the provisions of the hospital scheme. Some of the principal provisions of the scheme are issuing bonds or debentures, erecting or purchasing a hospital, engaging the hospital staff, and in MUNICIPAL HOSPITALS 33 general assuming of the supervision of the said hospital. The revenue of the hospital is raised by the hospital board making a requisition for certain funds each year from each of the five contributing hospital units. In the urban unit, the assessment and collection of the taxes or rates is made by the council of such urban unit. In the rural units the assessment is made and collected by the Provincial government. Where rate payers' taxes amount to $6.00 yearly, the rate payer and all members of his or her household obtain all hospital privileges for $1.00 per day. These hospital privileges do not include the cost of a physician in performing operations. Persons who are not rate payers or who are not hospital supporters pay $4.50 per day for hospital privileges besides paying the postal fees for surgical operations. Any person who resides in the hospital district, and who pays $6.00 to the hospital board before the first day of March each year, becomes a hospital supporter and is entitled with all of the members of his or her household, to the $1.00 per day rate. This is a very generous provision for people of moderate means to obtain hospital privileges for a very nominal sum. So far the scheme has worked out very well, and has been a source of great assistance to people who require hospital privileges. We have a_ splendid Indian Hospital which is built on the Indian Reserve just across the road from the Cardston Municipal Hospital The Indian Hospital is equipped with most of the latest devices used in hospitals. All the care taking is done under the direction of the Federal Government, while one of our local doctors has charge of all medical and surgical work. Hundreds of Indians receive medical attention there yearly, and their women during maternity, receive every attention as do the white women in our own hospital. The Indian Hospital is maintained wholly by the Federal Government and all Indians are admitted free of charge. It is working a wonderful reformation among the Lamanite race, especially in the way of sanitary measures. Our Provincial Government also furnishes us with a travelling clinic consisting of a physician, surgeon, dentist and several nurses who travel around through the thinly populated rural areas of the Province, more especially where there are no hospital conveniences. These clinics do a great deal of good. We are indeed proud of the most excellent service rendered by our Provincial and Federal governments along these lines, for we feel that no governments could show greater interest in the health and well being of their subjects, than does ours
