EDWIN D. MEAD’S ADDRESS.

	“It was in the old Tremont Theatre, on
the site where Tremont Temple now
stands, that Elihu Burritt, the inspirer of
the great Peace Congress half a century
ago, gave, in 1841, his first address upon
Universal Peace. It was in Tremont Tem-
ple that Charles Sumner, four years later,
gave his noble oration upon the ‘True
Grandeur of Nations.’ It was in Tremon
Temple that were held in 1899 the princi-
pal American meetings to promote inter-
est in The Hague Conference. The last
half century has emphasized with terrible
force the plea of Burritt for human broth-
erhood and the better organization of the
world. Never did events lay more terrible
emphasis than tot ay upon Sumner’s ar-
raignment of the wicked waste upon great
navies and armies of the resources which
should be applied to constructive purposes
and the education and welfare of the people,
and which so applied would quickly bring
an end to war forever.
	“We do not forget, be sure that none
remember so constantly, that our own re-
public, from which it was indeed your
right not to expect it, has yielded in these
days to the temptations to make herself
also a great naval power, and indulge the
hoary old ambitions of commanding re-
spect by force instead of by ideas and the
neighborly hand. We acknowledge the
justice of your warnings and reproacies.
We do not resent them; we thank you for
them  We thank you for reminding us,
as you have done with such eloquence and
feeling in the last two days, of the princi-
ple of the founders of our republic, and
the high duties of leadership in the path
of peace and order which the republic by
its history and position owes the world.
If in the great temptations of our opu-
lence and power some of us are in danger
of forgetfulness and faithlessness, may
the presence of so many of you here from
nations whose burdens and dangers are so
much greater than ours, and who need the
support of every influence of ours upon the
right side and not the wrong side, help to
call us back to our great national ideals and
our better selves. But remember this. We
no longer differ from you as we did in the
days of Sumner and Burritt and Channing.
Conditions everywhere become alike, and
one nation can no longer keep much ahead
of another. You have a right to ask us to
check the building of a great navy. We
must say to you that the real way to help
us is by such agitation at home as shall
check the increase of your own. We will
hope indeed that some great nation may
have the magnificent abandon to cast her
whole armies into the abyss and trust con-
fidently to the defence of that high act and
attitude; but, while we hope for that, let
us not build upon it, but work patiently to-
gether for disarmament.
	“While we thank you for your warnings,
we thank you also for your generous rec-
ognition of our good deeds and our good
purposes. Our President has recently

[Column 2]
proudly and properly claimed that The
Hague Court was impotent until the gov-
ernment of the United States made it a
reality. It is not a one his word; it is the
warm word also of Baron D'Estournelles
de Contant. Our President has assured
you that he shall take st[-]ps for the calling
of a second Hague Conference, to push on
the work which the first could not fully
achieve. I believe that he will do it. Of
this be sure—that the American people are
waking up. They will declare to-morrow
that all playing with fire of militarism in
this republic must forever cease; that if one
existing party does not stop it, its mandate
will go to another: and that our history
teaches us well how quickly sometimes
great new parties are born and become tri-
umphant.
	“Men tell us war will cease in this world
and out dreams come true ouly with the
millennium. I pity men who have such
poor notions of the millennium. The evils
which we fight are among the grossest and
most barbarous. They befit only the early
and low stages of civilization. Our effort
is but to clean the Augean stables. Horrors
and wickedness such as those going on at
this hour in Asia ought to be so far behind
as not even to be mentioned among civilized
men. Toleration of war in this twentieth
century after Christ is like setting up the
Ten Commandments on the walls of Chris-
tian churches, warning presumedly decent
Christians not to steal or kill or commit
adultery. Put the beatitudes on the walls
of your churches. It is only when we have
done forever with such savage and gross
forms of wrong as war that we shall be in
a position to make a first fair and decent
start for the millennium.
	“One hundred years ago Thomas Jeffer-
son was President of the United States.
Help us in this republic, in this centennial
time, to be true to his truth. The year is
the centennial of the death in Germany of
the great author of ‘Eternal Peace.’ It is
the centennial of the birth in England of
Richard Cobden. The apostolic succession
is never broken, and the apostles are multi-
plying to-day as never before. To-morrow
the vision of Kant and Cobden and Victor
Hugo and Sumner shall be those of every
thoughtful German and Englishman and
Frenchman and American.”
Woman's Journal.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
