[Column 1]
At the close of the morning session all
were invited to partake of a banquet served
in the spacious dining hall below, the tables
were arranged in the form of the letter “T”
and would seat about one hundred and fifty
at a time. Stake Counselor C. F. Mid-
bleton asked the blessing, and the guests
were feasted to their heart’s content, the
tables were filled again and again. The good
sisters of Weber stake are to be congratu-
lated on this sumptuous repast, to which
all present at the conference were made wel-
come.

	Afternoon session—President Jane S.
Richards presiding. Meeting opened with
singing, “A poor wayfaring man of grief,”
etc. Prayer offered by Bishop Robert Mc-
Quarrie; singing, “Farewell all earthly
honors.”
	President Adeline Belnap of Hooper
reported her ward—they had some sickness,
but felt blest in having good sisters willing
to help with faith and works; bore a good
testimony of the Prophet Joseph, whom
she knew as a child, and until his martyr-
dom. President Frances Dance. West We-
ber. said they had some diligent workers,
and felt they had the blessing of the Lord
with them all the time Sister Hunter had
a band of sisters strong in the faith, to do
good, it mattered not where or when. Sister
Mary Casey, Slaterville, said they had sold

[Column 2]
their wheat and were buying new to store
up—reported all well.
	Secretary Sister Driver read the minutes
of the conference held June 10, which were
approved as read.
	Sister E. B. Wells said she was proud of
the work of the Relief Society, and of the
Weber Stake House, especially. It was
the only stake house built and owned by
the sisters She felt a good work had been
done by their president, Sister Jane S.
Richards, she knew her perseverance in
building the hall, felt it was a monument
to her; was delighted with the spirit of the
conference and with what had been accom-
plished through the determined efforts of
the sisters, who had been willing to give of
their time and means  It was certainly a
credit to the Relief Society everywhere that
there was one such place, and she hoped
there would yet be many more. Sister
Wells gave some historic data of the Soci-
ety and made other remarks, urged the
young sisters to visit the aged and sick and
comfort them, it was refreshing to see their
bright young faces; do some little thing, if
it is only to take them a flower; referred
to the visits she had made in Ogden with
Sister Eliza R Snow and Aunt Zina Young,
also our President Bathsheba W. Smith,
and how much she had enjoyed coming,
and how gratifying it was to have Sister
Jane S, Richards still actively carrying on
the work given her to do by appointment
of President Brigham Young.
	Sister Emily S. Richards always felt at
home in Ogden She had just returned
from a long trip to Germany and other
countries, had met many great women,
thought they were trying to do good and
help the world The places she had visited
and the scenery among which she had trav-
eled were more wonderful than she could
describe; had visited in our missions and
spoken to the sisters and tried to encourage
them in their labors; referred to the mis-
sionaries. what good they are doing in car-
rying the Gospel to the honest in heart.
	Elder Franklin S. Richards said he felt
himself adopted into the Society in Ogden,
for he had spent some of his happiest days
here. When he looked back to those times,
there was a warm place in his heart for
those he remembered, and was always glad
to be in these meetings, and among these
faithful ones. Said this was a selfish age,
and everybody was thinking how can I help
myself. But the noble women in the Relief
Society were only seeking to help somebody
else, and always in the line of their duty.
It was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and through the Spirit of the Lord,
that woman might be elevated and become
a true helpmate to man. He prayed the
Lord to bless all those associated in this
work, they had a warm place in his heart;
was glad to meet with old friends, brethren
and sisters.
	Sister Lee, Far West, reported a good
band of sisters living up to their duties, tak-
ing care of the sick, and felt well and en-
joyed the Spirit of the Lord.
Counselor Hattie Brown again bore her
testimony and spoke encouragingly to the
sisters of the work they had done.
Bishop McQuarrie felt he must be obed-
ient to President Richards, and had enjoyed
the remarks of the sisters, all of them, and
the visitors from Salt Lake. He counseled
the Saints to listen to the still, small voice,
and thus keep in the right path. Blessed
Sister Richards and all assembled.

[Column 3]
	Sister Martha Critchlow, the First ward
Ogden City, bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the work.
	Sister Moon, Mound Fort, reported—
made a good report of the work and bore
testimony.
	Elder Stone, an aged brother, who had
been blind many years, bore a strong tes-
timony; said he enjoyed these meetings.
Sister Stone also bore her testimony.
	Sister Scowcroft also spoke a few words of
appreciation of the blessings of the Gospel.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke very af-
fectionately to the sisters. Was sorry there
was not time for everyone to speak, but
there never seemed time enough. She loved
to hear from those who had been so diligent
and faithful in good works; felt to bless all,
whether they had spoken or not.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “O my Father.” Prayer by
President C. F Middleton.
	C. E. DRIVER, Secretary.

