[Column 1]
CHARACTER,
BY ROSE B. MUSSER.
	Lecture given at Wasatch Stake Relief
Society conference, held in Heber City,
June, 1904.
	“There is a structure which everybody,
both young and old, is building. It is
called character, and every act of life is a
stone thereof, and every desire forms some
part.”
	Honesty, faithfulness, sincerity and pur-
ity are the mighty corner[-]tones of charac-
ter. They should be laid as soon as a child
begins to notice indeed even before it is
born.
	“Our minds are given us, but our char-
acters we make.” The-God given powers
necessary to produce a man of character are
not character, no more than the raindrop
is the fountain. The ocean beach is com-
posed of numberless grains of sand, so
character is formed by just so many little
thoughts and acts.
	Character and reput[-]tion are not the
same. Character is the apple, reputation
the colored peel. Reputation may find its
reward among groveling humanity, while
character awaits its vindication, if necessary,
in eternity. Reputation is what men think
you are, Character is what you are. The
persecuting Jews were high in reputation

[Column 2]
but wholly deficient in character. Jesus
sustained a good character but bore a bad
reputation.
	Parents are responsible, to a large extent,
for the condition of their children’s charac-
ters, being as they are living examples un-
to them. Viewing it in this light, how
necessary that we be strictly honest, pure
and sincere. God gives us these sweet
little innocents, and expects us to be strong
examp es unto them. This ca[-]not be if
our thoughts are not p[---]. Parents some-
times talk about their friends or neighbors
in a fault-finding spirit before their chil-
dren, or they will tell little “fibs” (as lies
are sometimes called). This is wrong. It
tends to weaken character. Children are
prone to imitate their parents. Their
mind are delicate and ex[-]eedingly impres-
sionable. Rather than cultivate a fault
finding disposition we should look for the
good in everything—in everybody, because
there is some good everywhere. We should
teach the little ones by example and pre-
cept to look upon the bright side of life;
they soon enough learn the bitterness there-
of; and if, while they are young, the seeds
of good, firm characters are planted, the
fruits thereof, in old age, will be glorious.
	If, then, we be careful to build with pure,
upright deeds, the structure will be a per-
fect one, in which the spirit of the Lord
will delight to dwell; but as “one leak will
sink a ship or one flaw will break a chain,”
so one d[--]honorabie or unwomanly act will
forever leave its impress upon the charac-
ter. A blow to character in youth or oid
age cau never be wholly effaced. God may
forgive a sin, but the character never for-
gets it.
	Faithfulness is an important stone to the
structure; faithfulness to a duty, to a
friend. Joseph, though a slave in Egypt,
did not forget this truth. Refusing to be
tempted by the wicked wife of Potiphar, he
chose the dungeon rather than dishonor—
he could not betray a sacred trust, guided,
doubtless, by the thought impressed upon
him in youth, that “Men rise higher as
their task is high,” hence he “cho[-]e to
walk high with the sublime dread, rather
than crawl to safety,”
	Solomon says: “Train up a child in the
way it sh uld go, and when he is old he
will not depart from it.”
	A tree may be ever so crooked and yet be
made to go straight if properly cultivated
when young and tender—an old tree can-
not be turned.
	A young mind may be guided and char-
acter developed, while an aged one may not
be influenced.
	Helaman’s army of two thousand young
men defeated in battle a much larger army
of the Lamanites without the loss of a sin-
gle life to them. When, asked how it was
done, the reply was: “Our mothers taught
us while young to pray, and if we did not
doubt, the Lord would deliver us.”
	When his apostles would look for the se-
cret of perfection, Jesus gave them the ex-
ample of a child—a standard of future great-
ness; hence the object of a parent should
be to keep a child—a child, even after it
reaches manhood or womanhood—a child
in all that goes to make perfect character.
	A wealthy merchant at an advanced age
was on his death bed. His mother died
when he was eight years of age. Half con-
scious he started in bed and said: “I
thought I hea[-]d the voice of my angel
mother.” He spent hours telling of her
personal graces, lovely smiles and gentle ac-

[Column 3]
tions. So riveted were they upon his young
mind before her death, that a lifetime of
business turmoil, excitement and dissipa-
tion could not blot the childish memory
out.
	Hence youth is the springtime of charac-
ter, and the seeds sown then will put forth
fruits for good or evil.
	Mothers, teach daughters the secrets aud
sacredness of maternity. No girl should
be ignorant of the emotions and changes
peculiar to girlhood. She should be taught
to keep the fountain of life pure. Her pur-
ity and modesty should be to her what the
power of the spirit was to Nephi—a con-
suming fire to those who would stain her
innocent life; and boys should be likewise.
But the lesson is for youh. Fail at this
time, and the parents become, in a measure,
responsible for the later recklessness and
carelessness of the child.
	“Honest courage,” said a great writer,
“is of greater worth than any amount of
grace; purity is better than elegance, and
cleanliness of body, mind and heart than
any amount of fine art.
	W[-]ile the cultivation of the graces and
fine arts are not to be neglected, it should
never be forgotten that there is something
far higher and [---]ler to be aimed at, great-
er than pleasure, greater than art, greater
than wealth, greater than power, greater
than intellect, greater than genius—and
that is, purity aud excellence of character.
	Wit[-]out a solid, sterling basis of indi-
vidual goodness, all the grace, elegance and
art in the world would fail to save or elevate
a people.
	Seek, then for character, trusting in time
and justice to establish for you a perfect
reputation. Let your capital in life be
character—hew close to that conviction—
defend it with life, and your final crowning
will be marvelous and perfect.”


