EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We hope our readers will excuse our not
publishing in this issue of the paper the min-
utes of the General Relief Society Confer-
ence held in October last, but we will cer-
tainly include it in the December number.
	The meeting of the Daughters of the Pi-
oneers was held on October 24th, in the
Bee Hive house, the president, Sister Alice
Merrill Horne, presiding. Hymn “Guide
us. O thou Great Jehovah,” was sung.
“Wanderings in the Wilderness,” by Leo-
nora Taylor Harrington, brought vivid pic-
tures before the mind. “Reminiscences of
Nauvoo,” by Sister Christiana D. Pyper,
who when a little girl knew Joseph Smith
the Prophet. “Reminiscences from Nauvoo
to Winter Quarters,” by Rachel E. Woolley
Simmons, was a very well written and en-
tertaing paper, giving the early life in the
Church of Bishop Edwin D. and Mary
Woolley, their association with the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and their travels westward.
	A handsome book suitable for a center
table has just been issued from the press,
very suitable and just in time for the Christ-
mas season. The author is very well
known to our readers and to all Latter-day
Saints, through her numerous poems and
other writings for more than thirty years.
L. L. Gr[-]ene Richards has a happy faculty
of writing children’s short stories and
verses. The book has a children’s depart-
ment. The feature of the book most like-
ly to catch the eye of the Latter day Saint
is the Book of Mormon poems. It is a new
depaiture and opens up an untrodden field
for the pen of the poet. The title of the
book is in itself suggestive, “Branches
That Hang Over the Wall,” and the artis-
tic design for the cover by her son who
lately returned from Paris, very appropri-
ately illustrates the subject. Price, $1.50.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution was held on
Monday, October 17, 1904, at the residence
of Judge and Mrs. W. H. King, Military
Ave, in this city. The parlors were beau-
tifully decorated with autumn flowers, and
the club colors with the Stars and Stripes.
The day was a stormy one but the meeting
was fairly well attended, and Mrs. King
makes a charming hostess. Regent Mrs
Phebe Young Beatie presided, and after
opening prayer, reading of minutes and mis-
cellaneous business, Mrs. Mary A. H. Can-


non gave the paper of the day; subject,
Mrs. John Quincy Adams, many interest-
ing facts in the life of this brilliant, self-
sacrificing wife and mother were brought
out clearly and given in graphic style.
Mrs. Emily H. Cannon gave an interesting
story, and as Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon was not
prepared with a song, Mrs. Lucy W. Smith,
by special request, gave some incidents of
her recent delightful trip East and to the
Fair at St. Louis. After adjournment re-
freshments were served in dainty style, and
the guests enjoyed an hour’s chat with each
other and the hostess in her delightful
home.
	The November meeting of the Daugh-
ters of Utah Pioneers was held on Wednes-
day, November 9, 1904, in the elegant par-
lors of the Bee Hive House, the President,
Mrs. Alice M. Horne, present, although
Counselor, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, presided.
After the exercises of singing and prayer
Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde read the hymn,
“O, say what is truth,” and Mrs. Lucy
Pratt Russell read her paper on Brother
and Sister Snively of Pennsylvania, her
grandparents, how they received the Gos-
pel, and gathered with the Saints in Nau-
voo; the marriage of their daughters Han-
nahette to Apostle Parley P. Pratt, and
Susan to President Brigham Young; she
emphasized their devotion to the Gospel
and the principles of celestial marriage.
Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne read the paper
prepared by Mrs. Julina L. Smith on Winter
Quarters, Mrs. Smith being unavoidably ab-
sent on account of sickness in the family.
The paper was full of interest as it con-
tained so many practical facts in regard to
conditions existing at that time of scarcity
and trial, and brought back to the pioneer
women present many pathetic and thrilling
scenes through which the Saints passed
during that critical period. Many com-
ments were made after the reading, the one
however ot special value was by Mrs.
Elizabeth Nebeker, a pioneer of 1847. A
poem “Reminiscenses,” written for the
Daughters of the Pioneers was read by the
author, Mrs. E. B. Wells. As the other
numbers could not be given a little time
was taken by Mrs Nebeker giving some of
her girlhood experiences, her first meeting
with the Prophet Joseph Smith in the State
of Pennsylvania when she was nine years
old, and subsequent events.


