EDITH IVINS LAMOREAUX.
	The saying that we do not appreciate our
blessings until deprived of them is no truer
anywhere than in regard to our appreciation
of our own dear homes in Utah. So many
of our young people married at home are
beginning to enjoy (?) tenement life and to
advocate it, especially in Salt Lake City.
God forbid that it should ever become so
popular as it seems necessary in New York

[Column 2]
City. To our sisters in the country who
read this, the question will come. What
is it any way? ’Tis for them I am writing.
Not an elaborate description of the homes
of New York, of which I as yet know but
little, but a comparison between our own
home here (and there are thousands just
like it) and those you are now enjoying,
humble indeed many of them, but for the
most part all your very own. While all
but about 5 percent of the people of Utah
own their homes there is only about 5 per
cent of the people here who own a home or
anything they can call their own except it
be their clothing and furniture. In conse-
quence the four millions of people are
crowded into flats one on top of the other,
some of the houses being ten stories high,
and some containing as many as fifty fami-
lies. But you say that does not include
children. Don’t it, though? Just get out
some night among the poorer districts or
even the middle classes, and the street will
be so full you can scarcely crowd your way
through without pushing some little tot
over. But I was to describe “our flat” and
the daily life of a missionary’s wife here.
	There are ten families of us in a house of
four stories. We live on the third floor.
All use the same front hall and stairway.
No matter how much contagion there might
be in the house, a[-]l have got to pass through
this hall to reach their flat. All use the same
clothes lines, which are up on the house
roof. If your clothes are left out all night
there may be some sheets, etc., missing
next day, but that isn’t much. You would
not think of going to one of your neigh-
bors and comparing sheets, etc. as they
were all hanging in rows together any-
how, and how should they remember which
is theirs at all times.
	You meet all classes here.  While some
are fine people and as honorable as any of
our neighbors at home, some are foreigners,
Italian and Spaniards, etc., and the less you
have to do with them the better. To know
one’s next door neighbor, or even step into
her home is a rarity.
	Of course they don’t like us. Why
should they? Jesus said “Ye are not of the
world else the world would love you,” and
we do not wish them to, except it be for
our virtues. While we try to be quiet and
peaceable, courteous and kind to all, yet
the fact that a “Mormon” family is in the
house is enough to keep all the sisters busy
watching us. They need only the sligh[-]est
provocation too for an excuse to have us if
possible removed. We have as yet had no
serious trouble, but this rule prevails gen-
erally among our people all over the city.
	We have five rooms, hall and bath, the
latter being modern and very fine. All the
rooms are on one floor, and all except the
kitchen are light and very pleasant, situated
as we are on a corner The kitchen though
has only one window, which opens out in-
to a shaft running from the ground to roof,
through which everyone’s kitchen odors es-
cape, judging from the fumes which some-
times reach us. This is our back yarn, all
we have and our only use of it is to some-
times hang out a few clothes to keep from

[Column 3]
going to the roof, or to keep milk and but-
ter cool on the window sill. The kitchen
contains a small stove, a nice cupboard, two
stationary stone wash tubs, the lids of
which serve as tables, and a small sink over
the water taps, just large enough for a
small dish pan. There is no pantry nor
store-room, so we can only buy enough
food to last for a day or so, which can be
tucked away in the cupboard or under the
wash tubs.
	Our door bell and whistle are in the
kitchen. The latter is used by the janitor
(who lives with his family in the basement),
to call us to the dumb waiter or warn us to
flee in case of fire.
	The dumb waiter is a small cupboard
which is run up and down a shaft by means
of pulleys, for the purpose of carrying all
our garbage down, and our coal, ice, m[-]lk,
etc., up. Each evening at 6 o’clock the
whistle blows and we must hurry with our
garbage-bucket, old paper, ashes and any-
thing else we do not wish to keep to the
waiter. It is all emptied down cellar and
the bucket sent back “while you wait.” If
you don’t wait but think to get your bucket
later you may find only an old tin can, as
“first come first served” applies here as
well as elsewhere.
	When callers come they ring your bell
by pressing a button under your mail box
in the vestibule, and they cannot come up
stairs till you in return press a button on
the kitchen wall, which unlocks the front
halldoor. What a bother I hear some
hurried house wife say. Yes, and very ag-
gravating too when you discover often af-
ter your several trips to the kitchen that it
is only some old peddler, a beggar or the
small bo[-] of the street who delights in teas-
ing—or the “Mormon” missionary—for
that’s the way they gain admission too
when out tracting.
	Our flat is supposed to be steam heated,
having two small radiators for the whole
house. But we haven’t felt any heat yet.
There are no chimneys in any room but the
kitchen, hence we cannot furnish our own
“hot blast;” but in lieu whereof we have
a small coal oil stove which, until our steam
heat comes, we are firced to carry from
room to room, as we desire to be comfort-
able in our different daily routine. It is to
me indeed laughable.
	Still, some one says it is nice to have
your house steam heated (when it does come)
with no dirt nor work on your part, to have
plenty of boiling water to u[-]e day or night,
to cook on a gas stove without the dirt and
ashes so common to the lot of women; and
to have your work all on one floor.
	Yes, ’tis true. But for myself I prefer
more work if necessary, in a house of my
own with pleasant surroundings, a yard for
children to play in, a porch or lawn on
which to spend a pleasant afternoon, a tiny
spot for early garden stuff, and above all a
home by one’s self where we can train our
children in the paths of purity and truth
without being forced to come in contact
with the worst class at times if we allow
them any outside liberties at all. Oh,
there are so many things at home, so pleas-


ant, that these poor souls here, many of
them never yet dreamed of Then let us,
sisters, try to appreciate them. Let us as
mothers see to it that never through our
extravagance or influence shall our homes
be mortgaged, but through our economy
and frugality keep expenses down, that
fathers may never have that excuse, and if
in the growing desire among some to specu-
late upon their property husbands are
tempted to sell, let us all use our subtle
power and it is mighty, against it, that we
may ever have an inheritance in Zion.


