	ALPINE STAKE.
	The regular quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held at
Lehi, Friday, October 21, 1904, President
Rebecca Standring presiding
	Meeting opened at ten a. m. with singing.
Prayer by Brother William Southwick.
Singing, etc.
	President Standring made a few opening
remarks, after which seven of the presidents
reported their wards. The reports were
good in every respect, except the attend-
ance, which is sometimes rather slim. They
have a good spirit in their meetings, the
teachers are doing their duty, the poor are
helped and the sick visited. The sisters are
laying up wheat and helping to build meet-
ing houses and granaries and are united in
their work.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley ad-
dressed the meeting. Hoped the sisters
were not grpwing weary in well doing. In
looking at the abundant crops which the
Lord has sent to His people this year, had
we not ought to give thanks and gratitude
to His holy name by doing all we can for
the furtherance of His great work. Knew
that some of the sisters had more work al-
most than they could do, and had nearly
given up their spiritual meetings. Let us
not neglect our testimony meetings, but let
us lay our work aside as often as we can,
and attend our meetings, for our testimony
will never increase if we neglect to assem-
ble ourselves together in testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Martha Featherstone felt the re-
sponsibility of the calling that had been
placed upon her—to be a missionary in the
Relief Society of this stake of Zion. Had
passed many happy hours with the sisters
in their meetings in this house. Desired
to be associated always with the Latter-
day Saints. The Lord does acknowledge
His people, and the spiritual gifts will never
be taken away from them, for many have
had their prayers answered through these
gifts.
	Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing. Benediction by Stake Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.

	Meeting opened at two o’clock with the
usual exercises.
	President Rebecca Standring prayed the
inspiration of the Holy Spirit might rest
upon those who speak this afternoon. We
do not realize the importance of the
meetings which are to instruct and build us


up. Spoke of our late General Conference
and the instructions given. We must not
neglect our testimony meetings for other
duties. Spoke of the Memorial Building
and urged the sisters to contribute a little
to this object. Spoke of the lack of inter-
est taken by the sisters in attending meet-
ings and bearing testimony. Those that
loved the Lord met often together and a
book of remembrance was kept. Five of
the ward presidents gave their reports.
	President James H. Clark was the next
speaker. Felt that these sisters had much
to be proud of and much to be thankful
for in these organizations. Referred to the
nickle fund spoken of by one of the sisters,
who stated that they had gathered $215 00
in one year by this means, had paid for an
organ and are gathering for a sacrament
service by donating a nickle per week,
showing how much can be done by small
means  We have no reason to wish for the
honors of men, but for the approbation of
God, was reminded of the article written by
President Joseph F. Smith on success.
Those who served God to the best of their
ability were the ones who would be suc-
cessful. Mothers who are laboring day by
day to raise their children may sometimes
feel discouraged, yet they would be success-
ful in the end. This is only one little span
of our existence, and if we do not gather
the harvest now, there will be another time
when we may obtain our reward. Those
who are raising families are doing a great
work and the sisters who travel around
should encourage it, and make them feel
they are blest of the Lord. Our people are
progressing materially in the world. Presi-
dent Woodruff prophecied that this people
would grow in power and strength and beat
the head and not at the foot. We are seek-
ing to purify our lives and make ourseives
acceptable to the Lord. Our mission is to
redeem men from their fallen condition and
teach them the pure principles, of the Gos-
pel. Spoke of the necessity of being kind
to the stranger in our midst, our mission is
to save them and not cast them off or con-
demn them. Seek to reclaim them and
turn them from the error of their ways.
The sisters can accomplish much in this
direction and bring peace to many hearts
and many homes. Be encouraged and
in due time the Lord will reward you for
what you sow.
	Sister Mary Ann Webb said she had
been fed with the Spirit of God and re-
ceived strength many times when she had
been discouraged and cast down and had
gone home refreshed, blest and rested.
	Bishop Fjield had been edified and blest
in attending this meeting. Spoke of a fam-
ily who had gone to Idaho after receiving a
vision of the country- Every duty has a
blessing behind it.
	Brother William Southwick felt to heart-
ily endorse the reports and remarks today.
Had learned many things in being acquaint-
ed with the workings of the Relief Society.
	Conference adjourned for three mouths.
Singing. Benediction, Sister Ellen D.
Clark.
