		EMERY STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Emery stake was held on Friday, October
28, in Orangeville meeting house, President
[Column 2]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Mary A. Sorenson presiding. Her counse-
lors, Maria Guymon and Mary J. King, also
Secretary and Treasurer Maria Allen were
present. There was a good attendance
of the sisters from the several wards, nine
wards being represented.
	Excellent reports of the work being done
were given by the respective presidents or
representatives of the Price, Huntington,
Castledale, Orangeville, Ferron, Molen
and Emery branches.
	Visitors present were Sister Barton of
Salt Lake City, Patriarch Johnson of Hunt-
ington and Patriarch F. W. Young, Bishop
Robertson and Elder Frank Killian of
Orangeville.
	Short addresses were given by the Relief
Society stake officers, the visiting sister
and each of the brethren during the con-
ference on duties pertaining to Relief Soci-
ety work aud testimonies were borne to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Lectures were ably given by Ruth Mc-
Kee of Huntington, on “Home Influence,”
and by Maria Fitt, of Orangeville, on
“Parenthood.”
	The musical selections were excellent. A
vocal duet was rendered by Sisters Maggie
and Ranie Jewkes, of Orangeville, a quart-
ette by four sisters of the Huntington Re-
lief Society; and a vocal solo by Sister Kil-
lian of Orangeville, all of which were very
enjoyable. Two recitations were given,
one by Sister Davis, of Clawson, and one
by Sister Emma Elder, of Ferron both
were excellent.
	Stake Relief Society financial report was
read and unanimously accepted. Maria
Allen, of Castledale was presented and
unanimously sustained as secretary and
treasurer. The day was very pleasant and
the conference spiritual and interesting.
The sisters from other wards all enjoyed
the hospitality of the Orangeville sisters
during the noon recess.
MARIA ALLEN, Sec.
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the We-
ber Stake of Zion was held in Ogden, in the
Stake Relief Society Hall, on Thursday;
September 8, commencing at 10 a.m.,
President Jane S. Richards presiding. On
the stand were Counselor C. F. Middleton,
of the Stake Presidency and Bishop Robert
McQuarrie. Meeting opened with singing,
“Let us pray,” etc. Prayer was offered by
Elder Rudd. Singing, “Come, come, ye
Saints.” Minutes of morning session of
June conference read and approved.
	After reports were given by some of the
presidents of wards, President Jane S. Rich-
ards said she was very pleased ro see so
many present and to hear the reports by the
sisters that they enjoyad their labors in this
work, in visiting the sick and needy, and
that none were forgotten. She said, re-
member the instruction the Prophet Joseph
gave to the sisters about visiting the sick
he told them it was their duty, and let us
never tire of doing good to those in need.
	President C. F. Middleton said he always
enjoyed the Relief Society meetings and
the instructions given, they were good all
the time. Thought how good it was for
Sister Richards to see new faces at the
meetings, said if we are weary and tired
with our daily labors, if we would go to
meeting, we would rest our mind and our
body by the change of thought, and get
something to help us to renew our daily
lives. He prayed God to bless us. Amen.
	Counselor Hattie Brown said she was


very much interested in the instructions that
had been given this morning, felt we had a
good band of workers in the Relief Society,
said we had much to do to prepare for the
future; we should be ready, for we never
know when the call will come. She asked
for the Lord’s good spirit, and thought we
should feel whatever comes it is His will.
She desired to be worthy, and to do her
duty with the blessing of the Lord.
	A young girl from Preston spoke of a
wonderful manifestation four years ago of
the power of God, in her behalf. She had
expected to be operated upon, but was an-
ointed by Sister Zina Young. Sisters Jane
Richards and Emily Richards and Sister
Card: the next morning she was able to
rise and dress, according to the promise
conferred upon her by Sister Zina Young
through the Holy Spirit.
	Sister Shupe reported Eden Ward sisters
as doing their duty and all going on well.
Sister from Liberty said their ward was
small, they were few in numbers, seven to
nine was the largest attendance, but the
sisters were good and willing to do all in
their power for each other and the society.
	Sister Eliza Tracy of Huntsville said she
had sickness in her family and had not
been able to attend meetings, felt she was
the loser she always enjoyed the meetings
reported all were doing well in their society.
Sister Faulkner, Plain City, thought the
sisters were doing their duty and had the
good spirit with them. Sister Stewart, of
Warren, said they enjoyed their religion
and the spirit of the Lord. Sister Ayres,
Harrisville, made a good report—all well
and doing the best they could. Sister
Thomas of Lynn, said she always felt hap-
py when she came to meeting; reported all
well with the Society. Sister M.J. Maycock,
Pleasant View, said all were in good work-
ing order, trying to serve the Lord.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. with
singing ‘‘O my Father.” Benediction by
Elder Franklin S. Richards.


