SKETCH OF RUTH HAYWARD.
	We have met together upon this sad occasion to
show our love and reverence to [-]ur beloved sister
who has just responded to the call which sooner
or later must come to all of us, but while our
hearts are sad because of the long separation
which must follow her departure, we rejoice in the
thought of the glorious reception she will meet on
the other side, for verily she hath earned t[-]e wel-
come plaudit, “Well done thou good and faithful
servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.”
	Sister Ruth Hayward was born on the 1st day
of May, 1814, in Kent, England, and was there-
fore, ninety years, five months and thirteen days
old. she was married at the age of twenty-four to
William Hayward, in Woolwich, England and
proved a most tender and affectionate companion,
their devotion to each other being a beautiful
characteristic of their lives.
	She became converted to the Gospel and joined
the Church in 1849, and emigrated to Utah in
1853, arriving in Salt Lake City just fifty-one
years ago today. After residing t[-]ere for a period
of eleven years, she removed to Richfield where
she has since dwelt [-]ontinuously, save for two
years during the Indian troubles when she return-
ed to the north,
	Sister Hayward has been an indefatigable work-
er in the cause of thə Master, laboring in all of
the associations as an officer and member, with
great zeal and energy. Her whole heart went out
in tender sympathy to the sick and sorrowing, and
her faith was so great, miraculous healings have
often been the result.
	Her great charity for the erring has led them
back to a higher life, and a belief in the goodness
and love of a merciful Savior.
	The Latter-day Saints of Richfield can never
forget sister Hayward. One of the first pioneers,
she has been identified with every move made for
the advancement and upbuilding of the city and
community, and through all her labors the sublim-
ty of her faith has shone forth as a beacon-light
to her associates The strong testimonies she has
borne in the assemblies of the Saints has been an
inspiration to them, and we know that t[-]e closing
of the life is but the beginning of another which
shall be even more glorious and eternal.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, Our highly esteemed sister, at the
close of a long and beautiful life, has been called
to her heave[-]ly [-]ome, we, her sisters, who know
of her loving deeds, and appreciate her many
noble qualities, desire to express our sympathy for
her bereaved fumily, and to acknowledge her lab-
ors and ministrations of kindness as a member of
the Relief Society, and also as a friend and neigh-
bor in the best sense of the term.
	Therefore be it Resolved; That we do humbly
testify that faith, charity and humility were lead-
ing traits of her character, and that her steadfast
devotion to the work of God is an example which
we should all strive to emulate.
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy
to the bereaved family and bid them look up, and
trust in God.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
our minute book, an[-] also presen[-]ed to the family
and published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Dated this 16th day of October’ 1904.
AG[--]S B. THURBER,
Pres. Richfield Ward, R. S.
MINNIE A. NEBEKER,
HENRIETTA [-]RIGHT.
Counselors.
CELIA E. BE[-]N,
Secretary.


