[Column 1]
PEACE DEMONSTRATION.
	A Peace meeting was held in Barratt
Hall, Salt Lake City, Wednesday, October
5, 1904, at 8 p. m. Advertising hau been
done through the papers and many personal
nvitations given. The chairmen and mem-
bers of the committee both of the N. W. R.
S. and Y. L. M I. A. were very busy for
sometime beforehand holding meetings and
making plans for this public meeting. It
was the week of the International Peace
Congress which was b[-]ing held in Boston,
Massachusetts.
	Personal letters were addressed to minis-
ters of various denominations asking them
to preach sermons or give addresses on
Peace and Arbitration on Sunday, October
2, or at some other conven[-]ent time. This
request met with general approval and
most of the ministers took up the subject,
thus the peace sentiment was pretty well
ventilated beforehand.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards of Peace com-
mittee from the N. W. R. S and Mrs.
Ruth M. Fox of Peace c[-]mmittee from Y.
L. M. I. A. with coworkers prtpared and
sent out circulars of instructions to the
Presidents and Superintendents of Associa-
tions in all the Stakes, counties, etc., and
set the ball rolling.
	Barratt Hall was appropriately decorated
with flowers and the peace colors and three
handsome peace flags as also the stars and
stripes adorned the large and commodious
platform, members of committee and speak-
ers wore peace colors in ribbon badges.

[Column 2]
	His Excellency Governor Heber M. Wells
presided at the meeting. The speakers and
other distinguished visitors with the com-
mittee occupied seats on the platform.
	Reverend W. H. Fish opened the meet-
ing with prayer and the famous quartette
Messrs, Spencer, Pyper, Whitney and
Patrick rendered gloriously, “A Flag with
out a Stain.” Mr. Walter Wallace in his
wondrous baritone voice sang “The Wand-
erer.” Governor Wells in his most inimitable
style made an opening address, expressing
his interest in the cause and his apprecia-
tion of the efforts being made to secure
settlements of difficulties between nations
by a court of Arbitration, and introduced
in a pleasing manner Major Richard W
Young grandson of the Hon Brigham
Young as the first speaker cf the evening,
saying that though he was a man of war
having been a cadet from West Point served
his country well in the Philipines, and so
forth yet he was nevertheless parodoxical
as it might seem emphatically in favor of
peace. Major Young’s address has been
published in full in the Deseret Evening
News. This fine address was a master-
ly effort throughout and enthusiastically
received and heartily applauded.
	A song by Miss Agatha Berkhoel was
beauti[-]ully rendered her voice reaching
very high notes clear and melodiously. At
the conclusion of Major Young’s address
Mrs. E. B Wells read the Peace Resolutions
and Gov. Wells called for the vote which
was unanimous.
	The audience was honored by the pre-
sence of the Hon C. V. Gerretsen of Am-
sterdam, Holland, who had been a delegate
from Holland to the Interparliamentary
Peace Congress in St. Louis held there in
September. The gentlemen made a most
unique address giving a history of the In-
terparliamentary Peace Union League, the
nature of its Congresses and what had been
done through the organization towards se-
curing certain measures for the cause.
	It will be remembered by our readers
that it was the delegation from this Con-
gress that presented to President Roosevelt
the Resolutions passed by them in St. Louis
and which were so favorably received by
the Chief Executive and almost immediately
acted upon.
	Mr. Gerretsen gave the audience an en-
tirely different version of the Interparlia-
mentary Union to what had been previously
thought, the manner of taking up these inter-
national differences, and gave us new light
on the subject.
	Mrs. C. F. Wilcox read in a very effect-
ive manner Rudgard Kipling’s Recess-
ional” poem.
	The Reverend Mr. Fish who occupies the
pulpit in the Unitarian Church was the
last speaker of the evening and in a very
eloquent address gave many astonishing
facts, most effectively embellishing his par-
agraphs with bri[-]liant oratory; though the
hour was growing late yet the audience
listened with rapt attention to every word,
as he told them of his own knowledge of
the ravages of war in countries he had
visited
	The meeting adjourned sine die. The
ladies of the committee feel greatly encour-
aged in the work and honored by these dis-
tinguished gentleman so graciously accept-
ing invitations to speak at this Woman’s
Peace meeting, also for the response made
to the request sent out for meetings to be
held throughout Utah and adjoining states

[Column 3]
and territories. It is very evident that the
peace sentiment is spreading and many
people are seeing the advantages of settling
grave questions affecting peoples and nations
by means of a court of arbitration, such as
is now being considered by some of the
ablest men of affairs in the civilized world.
	Meanwhile women in an organized capa-
city are bringing to bear their utmost in-
fluence in favor of this higher ideal of true
civilization, instead of encouraging war and
bloodshed, and assuredly with the combin-
ed influence of the best elements of society
waging a moral and spiritual warfare
against taking up arms, and fighting for
commercial interests, or “right of way”
that can be better obtained by pacific
measures there will soon be a cleaner and
purer and more loving methed of meeting
one’s country’s foes than shooting on sight
and showing no mercy.


