[Column 1]
	TO THE WOMEN OF THE UNITED
		STATES OF AMERICA.
	Some weeks ago I received a letter ask-
ing that I should add mv signature to many
others which were affixed to a protest against
the admission of any more states into the
Union under constitutions providing for the
disfranchisement of women. I gladly ac-
ceded to the request, but I confess that I 
did not at the time quite understand the
enormity of the offence, which, from my
point of view, is being committed against
American womanhood. Had I, I should
have wished to write my name in capitals,
and long ago should have appealed to my
countrywomen to join me in an expression
of resentment against the bill proposing the
admission of four of our territories as two
new states, which I understand is now in
the hands of the Committee on Territories
No objection have I to having the Indian
Territory and Oklahoma, New Mexico and
Arizona pass from the tutelage of territor-
ial government into the joy and dignity of
sovereign statehood, but I do protest against
having any bill looking to this transition in-
dicate to the incipient states that they may
be admitted to the Union under constitu-
tions which disfranchise their women. I
consider the terms of this bill particularly
obnoxious. It seems that the following
occurs twice, appearing first in paragraph
five, section three, of the Bill, and repeated
in paragraph five of section twenty-one.
The part of the Bill which excites my re-
sentment is as follows:
	“The said state shall never enact any
law restricting or abridging the right of
suffrage on account of race, color or pre-
vious condition of servitude, or on aecount
of any other conditions or qualifications,
save and except on account of illiteracy,
minority, sex, conviction of felony, mental
condition or residence, provided, however,
that any such restrictions shall be uniform
and applicable alike to all citizens.” 
	The presentation of a Bill including this
obnoxious paragraph in Congress apparent-
ly gives to the disfranchisement of women
not only a passive acceptance on the part of
the general government, but it seems like
an expression of its active desire. Note
the position of the word “sex,” Placed
between the phrases “minority” and con-
viction of felony,” it is made to seem either
a condition of partial development or of
absolute disgrace. Moreover, this condi-
tion, being born to become a woman, how-
ever it may have been regarded by undevel-
oped races in former times, has always
been and now is considered by developed
peoples an election to particular sacredness
and dignity. The passage of such a Bill
cannot but have a degrading social influ-
ence. It is equivalent to a declaration by
the general government that it is at best an

[Column 2]
unfortunate or evil thing to be born a
woman.
	The general government on all occa-
sions declares what all good patriots are
bound to believe, that citizenship in the
Republic is a lofty privilege; that in a Re-
public the sign of sovereignty, its instru-
ment and weapon is the ballot.
	With the exception of women all classes
which by this Bill are excluded from the
exercise of the ballot, suffer from a limita-
tion which in its very nature is or may be
temporary. Minors have only to wait for
their jubilee birthday; illiterates have to
exert themselves only sufficiently to learn to
read; felons may by the expiration of the
term of years involved in the sentence be
restored to society, or with or without re-
pentance may receive gubernatorial pardon
and gain therewith the elective franchise.
Even lunatics may be restored to sanity, or
without such restoration, to freedom.
	It is sufficiently humiliating to have as-
piring territories knock for entrance into
the sisterhood of states bearing a proposed
constitution which looks to the disfranchise-
ment of half of their adult popu[-]ation; but
to have the United States say to an aspir-
ing territory that the constitution to be ac-
ceptable must brand womanhood with in-
dignity is a still more grievous thing to
bear. This condition is harder to bear now
that in four states of the Union women do
possess the power of acknowledged citizen-
ship, than it was when women throughout
the country were equally helpless and dis-
franchised. It is most improbable that
members of Congress from Wyoming, Utah,
Idaho and Colorado will vote in favor of
this section of the proposed Bill; for where
women already enjoy the right of suffrage
men pay to their opinions the real homage
which theoretically is always given to
the “eternal feminine.”
	I call the particular attention of the
women of the country to the fact that on
the 8th day of June, at a business session of
the Third Quinquennial of the International
Council, the representatives of nineteen
National Councils, including an individual
membership of several millions of women
all voted, without one dissenting voice that
thenceforth the International Council
should stand everywhere committed to the
policy included in the following declara-
tion, that,
	“Inasmuch as all governments equally
effect the men and women living under
them, therefore, be it resolved that under
all governments, whether nominally Repub-
lican or Monarchical whatever political
rights or privileges are accorded to men
ought on corresponding conditions to be ac-
corded to women.”
	The debate upon this subject occupied
three hours. The arguments, for the most 
part, concerned only the form under which
this large conviction of the Council should
be expressed. There was material agree-
ment among the women of all countries
embraced within the Council concerning
the propriety of the essential proposition.
In the end it was in the form cited above,
the broadest in which it was presented,
that the proposition was unanimously voted.
While it is quite true that by the constitu-
tion of the Council every affiliated Council
is left free and may abstain from active
support of Council propaganda, it is also to
be observed that great moral support is
given to propaganda by the vote of so rep-
resentative a body as the Executive of the
International Council of Women.

[Column 3]
	There sat in its Executive sessions the
actual representatives of sixteen of the na-
tions composing it, representing a great di-
versity not only of nationalities, but even
of races, and a still larger diversity of
tongues, faiths and governments; but all
were agreed that the hour had struck for
the abolition of every distinc[-]ion in the poli-
tical rights and privileges of men and wom-
en under whatever form of government
they may exist, which are based upon sex.
	I therefore appeal in the name of the In-
ternational Council of Women to every one
of my countrywomen living in whatever
state or territory, who through membership
in any organization affiliated with the Na-
tional Council of our country, is thereby
connected with the International Council,
to recognize the strength which the vote
cited gives to her individual opinion; and in
this strength I appeal to her in turn to
write to the Senator representing her state
in the United States, protest against the pas-
sage of the sections above cited in the Bill
under which it proposed to add two more to
the galaxy of the states. Thus will the
action taken by a world body in the capital
city of a military empire become effective
as an agency in giving enlarged liberty to
women in a Republic.
	Begging every woman under whose eye
this letter may fall to send at once to Sen-
ator Beveridge for a copy of the Bill above
referred to, and to follow this up by a close
study of the Bill and by an individual pro-
test against the sections indicated, I am,
with abiding faith in the principles of Dem-
ocracy, and with an intense desire to aid in
developing our nominal Democracy into
a genuine Republic, with great esteem for
my countrywomen,
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
Honorary President of the International
Council of Women.
	Indianapolis, Ind., November 8th, 1904.


