[Vol19 | November 1932 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Importance of Good Nutrition During the Present Period of Depression Jean C]
Importance of Good Nutrition During the Present Period of Depression
By Jean Cox
THE problem of feeding the family is important as well as interesting. The greater the interest given to nutritive value and costs of foods the more interesting the problem becomes. This is generally true of principles in art and science, the better the student the more zealous he becomes for additional information. While the problem of feeding the family is scientific in the main, it is also true that attention to art principles contributes to the success of the job of feeding the family.
During the present low income period, the housewife has a responsibility which she should try to face squarely and smilingly. The present financial depression has in many instances changed the food habits of a family. Favorite dishes have necessarily become eliminated. In many cases food aversions have been overcome. Frequently food selection and preparation have been given more than usual attention in an attempt to give variety and palatability to a more limited selection of foods. Fortunate is the family where the housewife has risen to the occasion and made family nutrition one of her major interests.
Every intelligent parent is anxious that children be healthy, robust, well nourished, and "brim full of good humor." To the connoisseur of children there is nothing more beautiful than a healthy child. The malnourished child conveys the same impression to the connoisseur as does the nubbin of corn to the farmer or an undersized gnarly pear or apple to the fruit grower.
DURING the present period of economic instability it is especially important that every effort be made to maintain the health of the family on low priced diets. The comforting thing is that this can be done, providing a sufficient amount of low priced foods is available. Prices of foods do not always indicate value. Highly milled flours for example are less valuable from the standpoint of nutrition than whole grain flours. Very rich milk is not proportionately more valuable at 25 per cent increase in cost than milk of standard proportion of cream. Skimmed milk has proportionately more food value than its cost. Out of season vegetables and fruits might also be cited as worthwhile examples of discrepancies between food values and costs.
Unless care is exercised in the selection and preparation of either high or low priced foods, they may not meet nutritional requirements in either quantity of food or variety. Body building processes cannot proceed if the nutritional elements are lacking. Suitable building stones supplied from foods for teeth, bones, nervous system, and muscle are just as necessary as building materials for houses. If these are lacking in kind and amount, the human structure will be comparable to a building having some straw bricks.
