Lesson Department Theology and Testimony DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS (First Week in January) Vicarious Work FOR THE Dead Lesson IV 1. One of the most comprehensive truths taught in the Doctrine and Covenants is vicarious work for the dead. Before this doctrine was introduced by Joseph Smith the sectarian world generally regarded the condition of the dead as more or less beyond the influence of those who are alive, in other words, "Where the tree falleth, there it shall be." Indeed, the condition of man's existence in the future world was thought to be entirely dependent upon his earthly conduct. Accordingly, if he accepted the Gospel on the earth, he would live happily for all time to come; conversely, if he failed to comply with God's commands while he yet lived, the future contained nothing for him except sorrow and remorse. 2. It soon became apparent however as the Gospel was being revealed that the plan of salvation includes the entire human family; moreover, that the laws of God are based on actual verities and therefore apply to the dead as well as the living. It also became apparent that man's advancement in the future will be dependent upon his merit. The justice of God also demanded that those who failed to receive the Gospel here should have opportunity hereafter. Thus the word of God was seen to provide for the possible salvation of every child of God, both living and dead. 3. Biblical Predictions. But Deity had already begun such a program. Even in the days of the prophet Malachi he said: "Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." (Mal. 4:5, 6) The intent of this 'statement was doubtless but little understood by sectarian scholars. Indeed, its significance is difficult to discern except by one inspired of God. Taken in connection with the revealed Gospel however its meaning is both clear and important. 4. Likewise the apostle Paul was doubtless aware that the ordinances of the Gospel are effective for the dead when properly performed. To the saints at Corinth he said: "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead