[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: President Emmeline B. Wells Lighting Candles on her Birthday]

PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS LIGHTING THE NINETY CANDLES ON HER BIRTHDAY CAKE. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. President Emmeline B. Wells Reaches Her Ninetieth Birthday. On February 28, 1918, President Emmeline B. Wells was ninety years old. Born in 1828, Mrs. Wells has been a witness of the greatest century since time began. In spite of her many years, Mrs. Wells was on this day well in body, bright in mind, and received her loved ones in her happiest mood. At 12:30 o'clock a luncheon was served in honor of President Wells in the President's suite in the Hotel Utah, by the individual members of f the Home Economics Committee of the Utah Stake Relief Society, for the purpose of raising funds for the Provo Chapter of the Red Cross. In arranging the cook book, the committee was assisted very materially by the Government Demonstrating Agent, Miss Josephine Burton, who is largely responsible for the contents of the book. In getting out this book, the idea was to use recipes which would be in accordance with the Government ideas on Food Conservation. Many substitutes are being recommended today, for certain foods. In working these out it is often found that the substitutes are more expensive than the food itself. Therefore, the Committee used only recipes which were economical, which had been thoroughly tested, and which conformed to the regidations of the United States Food Commission. Advertisements were solicited from business men, which practically covered the expense of publishing the book. The books were sold for 25c each, and the Committee cleared $700. There are now 2.000 of these books in circulation in Provo and vicinity. With the amount raised by the sale of these books and collected on Tag Day, when menus were sold for tags, the Home Economics Committee raised over $1,000. With this money bed linen was purchased for the Provo Chapter of the Red Cross, the Committe itself assisting in arranging and packing the boxes. The War Cook Book has been highly recommended by Mr. Herbert Hoover, United States Food Administrator, Mr. John W. Morey, Manager Mountain Division of the Red Cross, and by Mr. W. W. Armstrong, Federal Food Administrator of Utah. It it expected that a second addition of this book will soon be published, and we cordially recommend it to all our R. S. members. Address: Pres. Inez Knight Allen, Provo, Utah. REORGANIZATIONS. Utah Stake. The Utah Stake Relief Society was reorganized on the first of February, 1918. President Martha A. F. Keeler was honorably released from the position of Stake President on account of the work being too strenuous for her present physical strength. The new stake officers are: president, Mrs.