[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Where the Races Settled in Europe]

LESSON in. Genealogy. Third Week in May. f WHERE THE RACES SETTLED IN EUROPE. Roman Empire. The powerful armies of Rome, united with their superior civiHzation, first conquered and afterwards controlled Europe from the beginning of the Christian Era to 400 A. D. Then the Teutons  Goths, Vandals, Burgundians and Lombards invaded both Roman and Celtic territory. In 410, Alaric, a Gothic king sacked Rome. Shortly after the Goths passed over into Gaul (France) and Spain. In 451, Attila, king of the Huns, was beaten by the combined Franks, Goths and Romans. This battle decided Europe's continued Christianity, and made her independent of Asiatic Huns and African hordes. Gaul or France. Gaul was settled up by the Franks, a Teutonic tribe, but not until 450 A. D. was it a distinct nation. Clovis' ruled Gaul (France) and Spain. Then came the Lombards (Teutons) up from Italy, and wars ensued with Roman armies as well as barbarian Teutons of other tribes. Finally, in 800, Charles the Great, or Charlemagne, appeared upon the scene, and he gradually conquered all of central Europe. His kingdom therefore embraced all Germany, France, with a large part of Italy and Spain. He blended Roman and Teutonic principles, choosing the best of both. He was a great and wise ruler, king and emperor. After his death, the empire was sadly broken up. forming West and East Frankish realms, or France and Germany as we now know them. The history of European state systems here began. Spain. Mohammedanism became a rising southern European power, beginning in 622 A. D., when occurred the Hegira or fl-ght of Mohammed from Mecca to Medina. The Arabs overran Asia Minor, conquered Egypt and the whole of northern Africa and parts of Europe. The invasion of the Arabs or Saracens over the southern part of Europe, especially Spain, continued for seven hundred years with intermittent success. In 732 A. D. they were conquered by Charles Martel and driven out of Gaul. They remained in Spain, however, till the siege of Grenada, in 
 1494, when they were driven out by Ferdinand and Isabella. These monarchs were the patrons of Christopher Columbus. Tiirkcx. In the East, the Arabs were conquered ami were confined by the tenth century to Turkey in Europe. In the eleventh century, their power was overthrown by the Tartars or Turks. In 1072 the great Turkish conquerer Alp Arslan died, and his four.sons quarreled and split up his kingdom into what is now known as Persia, Syria, Rouen, all Asia Minor. The Turks had gained possession" of Jerusalem which the Arabs had conquered in 627 under Omar; the Turks have remained its rulers intermittently till today, when English arms have practically conquered Palestine. Germany. The Teutonic tribes of Germany, rude barbaric peoples, fought with neighboring tribes all over central Europe for centuries previous to the reign of the great monarch Charlemagne. Christianity became popular and modified tribal prejudices while Charlemagne's wise educational policy united the Saxons and Germans as one people. After his death, feudalism sprang up all over Europe and petty dukedoms arose everywhere. Wars multiplied between France and Germany, and kings ruled wisely or foolishly. Like France. Germany was a kingdom, but its king was also king of Italy. During the reign of Otto, in 966, the Germans began to feel the necessity for a national life. Their emperors spent more time in Rome than in Germany, and after a long succession of kings, Henry IV, in 1106, was compelled to abdicate. The crusaders followed. Then came Frederick the Great, 1155, and his prowess established Germany as an independent kingdom. Scandinavia. The history of the three northern kingdoms, Sweden, Norway and Denmark, is hidden in the mists of tradition and sagas. Denmark was named for Dan Mykillati or "Dan the Famous." The.date of his reign is unknown. A long line of kings followed to Stoerkodder, the Norse Hercules, believed to have reigned about 600. Towards the end of the ninth century, the many petty rulers of the island were united under Gorm the Old who reigned between A. D. 860 and 936. By this time the Norsemen had become a terror to all the coasts of Europe. Gorm himself was a fierce old pirate, once descending upon Aixla-Chapelle where he plundered Charlemagne's tomb. Gorm's son Harold accepted Christianity and died in battle in 985. Sweyn, Harold's son, invaded England in 994 and conquered a large part of that kingdom. He died in 1014. Sweyn 's sons, Harold and Canute, divided the kingdom, Harold reigning in Denmark and Canute going over to England where he became one of the most famous of English kings.