[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Home | Title: Entertainments Home Entertainment Morag]

Home Entertainments. Morag. A SPRINGTIME FAIR. Some of our readers have sent requests for fair suggestions. Announce this fair as: A SPRING OPENING And have every booth arranged to represent some of the spring flowers. The violet booth may be decorated with violet and white crepe paper, and bunches of pussywillows. Here sell knitted and crochet articles, attendants wear gray dresses, and large bouquets of violets. Decorate the fancywork booth with apple blossoms and costume the workers in pink and green. The tulip booth is the candy stall, and should be decorated in red, white and yellow. The garden booth is decorated in green; here may be found potted plants, seeds baskets, and garden accessories. Attendants wear white, with flower caps and aprons. Miss Columbia's country store should be decorated in the national colors. Here sell home-canned fruits and vegetables, jams and jellies, also demonstrate various "Hooverized" dishes, and distribute recipes, bulletins, etc. A dafifodil bed can be arranged over a large packing case containing the "grabs." A flower is chosen, at the root of which is found the prize. HAWAIIAN PARTY. The present popularity of Hawaiian music suggested this party. The invitations are written on small cards encircled with a miniature "lei." Table.decorations should consist of a large centerpiece of scarlet and orange paper poppies, with a single flower at each cover. These are later worn by guests. The menu may be Hawaiian fruit cup (pineapple and banana combined with cocoanut) ; Sandwich Islands (nut-brown bread with stuffed olives) ; coral reefs and seaweed (creamed ham or tongue served on toast with chopped parsley or watercress) ; volcanic cones (pyramids of vanilla icecream with chocolate sauce and rice wafers, or pine apple sherbet may be served with cocoanut cookies). After luncheon is over have a brief description of the islands given or read, with musical selections on the ukelele, or the weird Hawaiian music may be played from records. Conclude with the popular "Aloha, Farewell to Thee." HOME ENTERTAINMENTS. 
 For the home evening let us take an imaginary journey through the fields and gardens of the Holy Land, and pick a boquet of the lilies of the field. Let each member of the family search out and read references to almond trees, bullrush, cedar, fig, flax, grass, herbs, lilies, myrtle, olives, palm, rose of Sharon, vine, etc. Descriptive matter may be found in any Bible concordance or dictionary. Chapter twelve of Farrar's Life of Christ contains a splendid description of Galilee, where Jesus loved to be. See also Van Dyke's Out of Doors in the Holy Land. Sing "Memories of Galilee," "By Cool Siloam's Shady Rill," "I Think when I Read," etc. CHURCH ORGANIZATION ANNIVERSARIES. April 6 is the birthday anniversary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and should be fittingly celebrated throughout all Israel, with songs of joy and gladness, special music, and speakers. Many will attend conference, but all should join in thanks and gratitude to our heavenly Father on the return of the anniversary of this important and auspicious event. The city hostess usually finds her home crowded with friends and relatives from out of town during the first two weeks in April. She should prepare for this busy Conference time, some days ahead, by doing some extra cooking, and seeing that her larder is well filled, the cookey jar replenished, some salad dressing made, a large pan of gingerbread or fruit cake baked, have a supply of paper napkins to save extra washing. Then, with her bottled fruits and vegetables and other canned stuff, with lettuce and fresh fruits, meals can be quickly prepared and cleared away, and she can be free to accompany her guests to the various gatherings. The visitors from out of town should assist their hostess in every way possible, by rising early, caring for their own rooms, etc., and may even help with the food question, by packing up a hamper with a chicken or two, a pound or more of butter, or a few eggs or otherdelicacies. Help each other, hostess and guest, serve simple meals, and both will enjoy the conference better, and will receive the full amount of pleasure and happiness brought about by the occasional visit of congenial friends. IN APRIL. Smiles and tears, tears and smiles  That's April, loveliest month of all the year. Then nature 'wakens from her deathlike sleep. 
 The trees burst into leaf, and violets spring Around our path. The gently falling showers Bring blossoms gay, and ope' the sweet May flowers, While songbirds trill on every bush and tree. Again is heard the hum of busy bee. Oh, happy springtime! Life is wondrous fair In April, loveliest month in all the year. Tears and smiles, smiles and tears  That's life. The Father wills it. all is well. Along its way give smiles for bitter tears, Change tears to happy smiles of radiant joy. As in that garden in the long ago  When Mary's anguish deep, and bitter woe Were changed to wondrous joy. Her risen Lord Appeared and banished sorrow with a word. She knelt in worship, Love cast out all fear, 'Twas April, loveliest month of all the year. Smiles and tears, tears and smiles. Life has its April, after nights of pain Come days of gladness, sunshine after rain. Man is for joy, yet sorrow's beckoning hand Oft points the pathway to the better land. When storms are raging, let your heart rejoice, After the tempest comes the "still small voice:" "In days of trouble, on my help depend, For I am with you even to the end." Life's mission over, Rest. Then glad release And resurrections dawn of endless peace. Lucy May Green. things to remember. By Marshall Field. The widsom of economy. The value of time. The success of perseverance, The pleasure of working. The dignity of simplicity. The worth of character. The power of kindness. The influence of example. The obligation of duty. The virtue of patience. The improvement of talent. The joy of originating.