[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. 239 Norzvay. The primitive inhabitants of Norway were Finns who were fishermen. The Northmen who were, as we have seen, a Teutonic tribe of Gothic origin, drove out the Finns and settled Norway. The authentic history of Norway begins with Harold the Fair-haired who is supposed to have reigned about A. D. 863933. He subdued all the petty Norse chiefs about him and made one nation. Hakon the Good, son of Harold, was Norway's greatest king. He is one of the great heroes of Norwegian romance. He destroyed the pagan temples and founded the town of Trondhjem. In a battle with the Danes, in 1000 A. D., he was defeated and. though himself overpowered, in full armor escaped capture. The neighboring tribes in Denmark and Sweden, for years after, oppressed Norway, and in the reign of Canute the Great of Denmark, Norway was annexed to Denmark. The subsequent history is a history of wars with surrounding kingdoms, with Norway as a principality of Sweden. It is not until very recent times  1814-^that Norway was acknowledged as a separate and independent state under the Swedish king and his heirs. Since that time the kings of Sweden and Norway, have maintained two separate governments. In 1905 Norway was established a separate kingdom. Sweden. Like Norwav. Sweden was inhabited by Lapps and Finns. The Teutonic Goths drove them out at some uncertain but remote period. According to the old S"\vedish Sagas. Odin, at the head of the Swedes (also of Teutonic origin), invaded Iceland and seized the southern part from the possession of the Goths. Going further north they drove out the Lapps and Finns, and settled the region now known as Svealand. Odin's successor was Njord, whose son Frey Yngve founded the royal Swedish line which continued until the eighth century. In 993 Olaf, a Lapp king, came to the throne and from his time we have authentic Swedish history. Christianity had been introduced into Sweden in 829 and Olaf embraced the new faith. Olaf died in 1024. Wars followed between the Goths and the Swedes, and the various kings ruled well or ill according to their times and dispositions. Russia. The early history of Russia is very uncertain. Greek and Roman writers say it was inhabited by Scvthians and Sarmatians, who are said to be the ancestors of the Slavs. During the fourth and fifth centuries hordes of Goths. Alans and Huns swept over the country, leaving no permanent s-ettlements. At last the Slavs gained complete possession. They intermarried with the Finnish tribes, dwelling along the upper A^olga. In the sixth century Novgorod was famous as the capital of a great and powerful principality. A war with the Varangians, a race of 
 Scandinavian warriors, rendered Novgorod once more tributary to the Teutons. Back and forth swung the balance of power until 864 A. D., when Rurik who was a Varangian (Scandinavian) prince really founded the Russian empire, dying in Novgorod in 879. Olaf accepted Christianity. He subdued the Khazars, a people of Turanian descent. He also drove out the Magyars. Much history was made in Russia until 1221, when the Tartar hordes burst into Russia. 'For some time they controlled the Russian empire, but not until Ivan the Third, in 1462, did Russia rise above the Turkish control. It is very probable that there is a strong infusion of Teutonic blood in Russia. The Slavs and Teutons are not at all of the same temperament, and tribal differences betray themselves even to this day in this great country. This, then, gives a brief picture of the large sections pf country in Europe (with the exception of Great Britain), which obtained between the sixth and eleventh centuries. It will be seen, therefore, that the races of Europe were settling into rather definite divisions preparatory to the introduction of the Reformation which swept the Teutonic nations partially clean of the corrupted traditions which the Catholic church had spread over Europe. All the Latin races  France, Spain, Portugal and Greece  practically still retain the ancient Catholic religion and traditions, while Russia merely varies her religious formula with her own Titular head of the church, calling it the Greek-Catholic church, and which is located in Russia. Surnames. Up to this period of time (600-1100 A. D.) surnames were unknown in Europe, excepting with the ruling classes in Rome who preserved their tribal and gens names when signing formal papers or in civic procedures. We will deal v/ith the history of Great Britain during these five centuries in the next lesson. QUESTIONS. Who were the Romans? What can you tell of the early history of France? Who settled in Spain? What son of Noah was the father of the Arabs? Can you explain the difference between the Arabs and Turks? Ask a. German sister to give a sketch of Germany. Let Danish, Swedish, and Norwegian members tell the story of their native countries. For reference and maps, see any school geography and high school history of the world. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Home Economics. Fourth Week in May FRUITS. Fruits are valuable for their bulk or cellulose, sugar, ash constituents, vitamines and water. Their bulky content keeps us from eating an excess of concentrated foods, and the indigestible cellulose in fruits increases the peristaltic action of the intestines which is in most cases a distinct advantage. The caloric value is due largely to the sugar content as the relative food value of fruits is almost in direct proportion to percentage of sugar contained. The ash constituents are valuable for their alkalinity, which tends to neutralize the acid forming elements from meat and eggs, while the vitamine or growth producing element in fruits is of decided value. In addition to the value of the indigestible cellulose as a safeguard against constipation, the great American evil, the pulp of the fruit is considered more laxative than the skin, or the skin and the pulp. There seems to be an astringent element in the skins which reacts against the laxative value of most fruits. In addition to this the mineral acids such as malic, tartaric and citric are of decided value for their milk laxative properties. Fruits as well as vegetables used in liberal quantities in the diet tend to correct intestinal putrefaction which results from the use of too much. meat. This correction is made by stimulating the peristaltic movement of the intestines and also by furnishing a medium less favorable to the growth of putrefactive bacteria. Fruits are of distinct value in their alkaline elements. Experiments have proved that a liberal use of vegetables and fruits diminish the acidity of the urine, showing that th acid of the meat and eggs has been neutralized. The habit of eating potatoes with meals is a good one, as the acid of the meat is neutralized bythe alkalinity of the potato. In order to avoid an excess of acid it is well to adopt Dr. Sherman's rule of food expenditure, i.e., "allows as much money for the purchase of vegetables, fruit and milk (which have an excess of alkalinity) as for the purchase of the acid-forming fruits, meats, fish, and eggs." Green fruits are largely cellulose, starch and acid. When ripening begins the starch gradually changes to sugar and the acid content is also decreased. In addition to this the changes which take place bring out the different flavors of the fruits. Pectin or the vegetable gum which causes some fruit juices to jell is found in larger proportions in fruits that are a little underripe. As ripening proceeds this pectin decreases, hence apples that jell when a little underripe may not produce satisfactory jelly later in the season. 
 Fresh fruits are considered rather bulky foods, as it takes one large orange, three peaches, and two medium apples, and almost a box of strawberries to make one hundred caloric portion. However, when fruits are preserved or jelled they are one of our concentrated foods. One and a half to two tablespoons of these are equal to one hundred caloric portion. The census reports for 1909 show that the annual production of fruits and nuts is valued at $222,024,000.00. Of the small fruits, strawberries are the most valuable and of the larger ones apples have the lead. About 10 per cent of the total production is dried and marketed. The percentage of waste in many of the towns in Utah is much greater than that. Another change of the Italian proverb, "An apple a day keeps the doctor away," is "An apple at night makes the dental bills light." The crisp texture of the aple scours out the starchy substance which ferment between the teeth. Fruits which are highest in iron are: grapes, strawberries, prunes, raisins and plums. Those highest in phosphorus are: rhubarb, pineapple, plums and raspberries. These fruits are of special value in cases of anemia when blood and nerve tissue need to be replenished. In regard to the stored or canned fruits or vegetables we suggest the following tabulation of spoilage, if any, of the different methods used. Kind Cold Pack Pressure Cooker Boiler Open Kettle Salt Drying Sand Paper Think of loss in terms of percentage. If one can is lost out of ten, that is 10 per cent, and a higher loss than should be necessary. BIBLIOGRAPHY Farmers Bulletins: No. 154, "Home Fruit Gardens." No. 293, "Use of Fruit as Food." No. 853, "Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables." "Sherman's Food Products," pages 329-357. "Rose's Feeding the Family." See index. "Successful Canning and Preserving," O. Powell. QUESTIONS. For what are fruits valuable? Discuss the laxative properties of fruits. Discuss value of fruits for their alkaline element. Compare composition of green with ripe fruits. What can your organization do to prevent waste of fruit in your locality? Are you earning skilled or unskilled wages in putting up fruits. Compare home products with market products.