[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman. Eastern States Mission BUFFALO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY A Relief Society organization was effected January 4, 1923, at Buffalo, New York. Mrs. Elea M. Browning was erin" al president of this branch. There are nineteen members enrolled, and meetings are held weekly in the homes of the various members. In March, this society held a bazaar and social. Over $40 was cleared from the sale of articles which were donated by friends and members. This branch is now making clothing and knitting stockings to be distributed to those in need. A picture of the Buffalo branch is printed herewith. Raft River Stake Owing to the removal of President Celia A. Harper to Ogden, Utah, the Raft River stake Relief Society was reorganized May 21, 1923. Mrs. Harper has served as president of the stake Relief Society since 1917. Her work has been of a high character, and she has been faithful and devoted to the Relief Society and the Church. Mrs. Harper was given an honorable release, and the good wishes of her Relief Society co-workers and her many friends in this stake, were extended to her. Mrs. Abbie C. Ottley was selected as the new president of the Raft River stake Relief Society.
© Western States Mission. Mrs. John M. Knight, president of the Relief Society of the Western States Mission, reports that she has just returned from visiting various branches of the mission. Mrs. Knight visited the Relief Societies in Lincoln, Omaha, Grand Island and Pilger, Nebraska. Mrs. Knight reports that these Societies are all in a flourishing condition. Woodruff Stake Two years ago the Woodruff stake Relief Society asked the various members to report the number of chapters of scripture which each had read during the week. During the year, 1922, five wards reported a total of 4,354 chapters of scripture read. Morgan Stake The Morgan stake Relief Society had their annual temple excursion June 13, at the Salt Lake Temple. Kanab Stake The Relief Society Magazine is in receipt of the following sketch of Mrs. Emma S. Brown, of Fredonia: "Mrs. Emma S. Brown wag the president of the first Relief Society of the Fredonia ward, which was organized in 1893. She held the position for twenty-five consecutive years, and during the period of her presidency, an excellent organization was developed. Under her direction a Relief Society house was built. Mrs. Brown was a most worthy president and was always ready to serve those who were in distress, not only because of her position, but because of her sympathy, kindness and generosity. Her daughter, Mrs. Eva Brown Hortt, has succeeded her as president, and is carrying on the good work of her mother. Besides her public service, Mrs. Brown reared a family of twelve children. She is still active as postmistress at Fredonia. Mrs. Brown is seventy-two years of age." Liberty Stake The Liberty stake Relief Society board has issued! A bulletin Or a comparative report of the activities of the various wards.. The report lists the various wards, and gives statistics showing the per cent of enrollment and attendance at the different meetings, the per cent of L. D. 'S. Families visited, and the amount of wel: fare and temple work done. In addition to the work of the visiting: teachers, the Liberty stake has visited the sick and homebound. Several meetings were held at the County Infirmary, the Sarah Daft Home and the L. D.

 S. Hospital. Flowers, fruit, candy, etc., were distributed during the year and special gifts were made at the holiday time. New Zealand Mission.
AUCKLAND BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
President Ida A. Taylor and secretary Miriam A. Taylor have been released from their positions in the Relief Society of the New Zealand mission. Mrs. Taylor, together with her husband, President George S. Taylor, called at the Relief Society office on their return to Salt Lake City. Mrs. Martha Jane Wright will succeed Mrs. Taylor as president of the Relief Society. Mrs. Taylor reports that President Angus T. Wright and his wife arrived in New Zealand in June and found the weather disagreeably cold. June is one of the New Zealand winter months. During Mrs. Taylor's presidency, she has worked faithfully and untiringly in the interest of the Relief Society. She reports that the women have been interested in the meetings and that they have made a study of the lessons in the Magazine. There are thirty-three Relief Society organizations, two of which, one at Auckland and one at Thames, are European organizations. The other thirty-one are composed of the Maori women. The secretaries of all these Relief Societies speak English and are able to make their reports and write letters in English. Mrs. Taylor arranged for the lessons which appear in the Magazine to be translated into the Maori language.