[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Items About Women]

Items About Women New York University Honors Women A bust of Frances Willard has recently been unveiled in the Hall of Fame of the University of New York. Other women who are memorialized in the Hall are Harriet Beecher Stowe, Mary Lyon, Emma Willard, Alice Freeman Palmer, Maria Mitchel and Charlotte Cushman. Of this group, Miss Willard was a reformer, Mrs, Stowe an author, Mary Lyon, Emma Willard and Alice Freeman Palmer were educators; Maria Mitchel an astronomer, and Charlotte Cushman an actress.: Miss Olive Jones of New York, President of the N. E. A. It is pretty much an unwritten law in the National Education Association that the presidency of the association shall fall to a woman every alternate year. In harmony with this policy, Miss Olive Jones of New York was elected president at the session of the National Education Association recently held in Oakland and San Francisco. This is the first time the office has fallen to a New York woman. Utah Woman Finds Place on School Board We congratulate Provo in the appointment of a woman on the Board of Education of that city. Mrs. Margaret P. Maw has had experience both as a teacher and as a business woman and will no doubt render valuable service in the position which has come to her through the resignation of Mr. Arthur N. Taylor. Utah is behind in this matter. Two years ago the state of Pennsylvania had five hundred women serving on school boards. Dr. Henry C. Cowles Visits Utah Dr. Henry C. Cowles, of the University of Chicago, is giving work at the Alpine Summer school, at Aspen Grove. It was known that Professor Cowles was bringing a group of his stu-— dents to Utah to study plant life in this very exceptional environment, but the surprise came when the party arrived and it was discovered that the group consisted of eighteen women. Daughters of the Pioneers In a number of cities of the State, the 24th of July celebration was staged and put over by the Daughters of the Pioneers with signal success. The Magazine extends congratulations to these women for their excellent community work cn the occasion of the
76th anniversary of the Pioneers entering the valley of the Great Salt Lake. Politics and Twins Recently the Indianapolis Star published a line which reads, "The great need of France, now as always, is less politics, and more twins." It usually takes a woman to make a matter quite complete. Utah can furnish both the politics and the twins. We congratulate Senator and Mrs. W. H. King on the birth of a son and a daughter, July 17. Enfranchizing the Italian Women The work of enfranchising the Italian women seems to be progressing very satisfactorily. The people of Latin origin both in Europe and America seem to be somewhat backward in this particular; consequently, we congratulate the Italian women on what at present seems to be an almost certain fact—her enfranchisement, in the very near future. Finnish Woman Serves Fifth Term in National Parliament.— Miss Annie Furuhjeln, who is now serving her fifth three-year term as a member of the Finnish Parliament, has probably had a longer experience than any other woman in a national law making body. The Finnish Diet is a body of two hundred persons, at present having a membership of twenty women. Miss Furuhjeln is at present interested in a bill asking for the appropriation of funds for the instruction of Swedish girls in home economics., The American Passion Play California is full of enthusiasm once more, as_ it begins the training for what has been called 'America's Passion Play," to be put on near Hollywood now for the fourth time. The play was written by the late Mrs. Christine Wetherill Stevenson, of Philadelphia, and like the Passion Play of Oberammergau, held every ten years, in Bavaria, Germany, concerns the Christ. Mr. Herberg Grimwood will play the role of Christ, and Helen Freeman will be seen again in that of Mary Magdelene. Convention Held at Seneca Falls A convention was held at Seneca Falls, July 20 and 21, commemorating the seventy-fifth anniversary of a first Equal Rights meeting ever held in the world. This convention was called by Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. On July 22, memorial exercises were held at the grave of Susan B. Anthony at Mt. Hope cemetery at Rochester, New York. On the evening of July 22, a pageant of the convention of 1848 was re-enacted on the bank of the Seneca River. Fifty women in the costumes ' 
 of seventy-five years ago impersonated the participants in the first equal rights convention, with Mrs. Claude Christopher as Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Edward B. GouJd as Lucretia Mott, Miss Helen Addison as Martha C. Wright and Mrs. Milton Sanderson as Amelia Bloomer, then a milliner in Seneca Falls, who originated the garment which still bears her name. Dr. Chew in Utah Dr. Ng. Poon Chew, managing editor of an American-Chinese daily was a guest in Utah during the month of July. He states that there are approximately four hundred Chinese women studying in American Universities at the present time.