[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Scenic West and Its Natural Resources]
The Scenic West and Its Natural Resources It is said that the Swiss people were oblivious to the beauty of their country until the tourist went in and discovered the beauty for them. It seems rather certain that the people of southern Utah in the region of Zion's Canyon, Bryce Canyon and Cedar Breaks have not appreciated in full the beauty of that region, and that history is daily repeating itself, in that people are constantly going into that country who are loud in their praises of the beauty of color and form found in these lovely canyons of southern Utah and northern Arizona, including, of course, the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the Kaibab Forest. We are personally acquainted with a physician now practicing in one of the cities of northern Utah who, as a boy, herded cows in and around Bryce Canyon, who never dreamed that there was anything superior about it. It is said of the man after whom the canyon is named that he suggested that it might be very beautiful to look at, but that it was most inconvenient to herd cows in as they usually succeeded in getting lost. Other expressions similar to this might be quoted were it necessary to support the idea that the growth of appreciation for the natural beauty of these places has developed rather slowly. At this writing we have in our state Dr. Cowles, a plant ecologist, from the University of Chicago, who is giving a course in the summer school being conducted at Aspen Grove in Provo Canyon. Dr. Cowles is widely traveled, both in the United States and in Europe. He has been this summer to Zion, Bryce and Cedar Breaks, and the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the famous Kaibab Forest. In speaking to Mr. E. S. Hinckley, who is especially interested at the present time in making manifest to people some of the beauties of this western country, he said, "You people don't advertise your state enough. So far as I am personally concerned, I should put the scenery of southern' Utah, including the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the Kaibab Forest, ahead of anything for scenic beauty I have yet noted." Evidence is not lacking that this country is coming to its own, so far as its natural beauty is concerned. The press of the East has been more generous than usual, in playing up the scenic beauty of Utah, and the recent visit of the late President Harding to the south has drawn the attention of people all over the country to some of the wonder spots of the West. Of course the automobile, the railroads, and the splendid roads that have
