========== FRONT MATTER ==========

Cumorah Ruth May Fox. Away! Away with your ancient lore, We have one Bible, we'll brook no more; The cannon of scripture is all complete, The wisdom of ages lie at our feet; Since Science has turned her gilded key All that has been, all that shall be, Will swiftly unfold, no need appears For new revelation, for prophets or seers. So said the wise, with a haughty smile, While the youthful seer their lips revile; The meek, and lowly saw dreams fulfilled— "The Lord is God," every doubt was stilled. But right is might, 'spite the world's dark frown, As ever Truth wears a jeweled crown; Though viciously hurled from her rightful throne, Triumphant she comes into her own. Behold, ye scoffers! Yon sacred mound The site of an ancient battle-ground, Where nations, forgetful of God and man, Fought to the death. Their red blood ran *Til a race was drained; one man alone Survived the carnage; with sorrow prone Moroni buried the records deep, With a prayer to God that the earth should keep Them safe for the remnant of the land, Should a few be spared of that stricken band; That the faith of their fathers, their woes, their pain, Might preserve the children from sin's deep stain. Look once again at Cumorah's hill Where the morning beams their radiance spill On Joseph's face; through the golden light He looks on the form of an angel bright, With the sheen of heaven, who gives him the plates— - The golden leaves which open the gates Of mystery. The records teem With words prophetic—a living stream Concerning this land—Moroni's land Which God preserved with an outstetched hand, That here His banner might be unfurled Which should wave good cheer toa failing world. The Book goes forth on its shining way Nor, earth nor hell its power can stay. An immortal man, a mortal youth Ordained to flood the world with truth. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock - BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIM.
36 GLASSES IN EACH TRA} + RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used. In Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "Y am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. = J "Everything arrived in' good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREADU OF INFORMATION THESE LABELS ASSURE YOU SATISFACTION east eps:: a ob RYT ae | rt Cromartie Ant Pyar s MANUFACTURED BY ZC ML "JE Z. G. M. I. FACTORY MADR Shoes and Overalls Are built in a factory that has been rejuvenated with modern machinery. Fieln tho movement for Inter-mountain development. Temple Block Salt Lake City Cumorah Ruth May Fox. Away! Away with your ancient lore, We have one Bible, we'll brook no more; The cannon of scripture is all complete, The wisdom of ages lie at our feet; Since Science has turned her gilded key ' All that has been, all that shall be, Will swiftly unfold, no need appears For new revelation, for prophets or seers. So said the wise, with a haughty smile, While the youthful seer their lips revile; The meek and lowly saw dreams fulfilled— "The Lord is God," every doubt was stilled. But right is might, 'spite the world's dark frown, As ever Truth wears a jeweled crown; Though viciously hurled from her rightful throne, Triumphant she comes into her own. Behold, ye scoffers! Yon sacred mound The site of an ancient battle-ground, Where nations, forgetful of God and man, Fought to the death. Their red blood ran 'Til a race was drained; one man alone Survived the carnage; with sorrow prone Moroni buried the records deep, With a prayer to God that the earth should keep Them safe for the remnant of the land, Should a few be spared of that stricken band; That the faith of their fathers, their woes, their pain, Might preserve the children from sin's deep stain. Look once again at Cumorah's hill Where the morning beams their radiance spill On Joseph's face; through the golden light He looks on the form of an angel bright, With the sheen of heaven, who gives him the plates— The golden leaves which open the gates Of mystery. The records teem With words prophetic—a living stream Concerning this land—Moroni's land Which God preserved with an outstetched hand, That here His banner might be unfurled Which should wave good cheer to a failing world. The Book goes forth on its shining way Nor earth nor hell its power can stay. An immortal man, a mortal youth Ordained to flood the world with truth. i { I t; & ty UV Gaee ee EA COPYRIGAT odo | \.. FELLOWCRAFTS, BHOP THE HILL CUMORAH


========== UNCOVERED TEXT ==========

THE Relief Society Magazine 
Vol. X SEPTEMBER, 1923 No. 9
The Book of Mormon Tested Alice Louise Reynolds. "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost."—Book of Mormon, Moroni, 10:4. His Mother Gave Him The Book of Mormon. He was a little boy living in Ogden, Utah, born just five years after the pioneers entered the valley. He learned to read when he was very young, and although he was only seven years of age when the Book of Mormon was given to him by his mother, he had read Sindbad the Sailor and other stories that are the product of imagination. It was in the summer time when the book was first placed in the little fellow's hands, so he seated himself in the shade of the log cabin and began to read it. He had read but a few pages when he said to himself, "This book is not like the other books I have read; this book is true. It is from God!' The conviction of the truth of the book that took hold of the child has never left him. Although he is a man considerably past middle life at the present time, a man of large experience and of many varied testimonies, yet he says the Book of Mormon holds a unique place in his experience which is held by no other book. More than that, he tells us that the feeling that came to him that the book is true and of God is always present whenever he reads it. Other books of scripture carry with them something of the samne feeling, but not in the same measure or degree as does the Book ose Mormon. This man is one of the very best known men among the Latter-day Saints. Were I to go into the details of his life, there would be comparatively few of my readers who would not identify him. He has electrified audiences all over the Church and in the mission field with the power of his testimony. He
428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was once asked, by the president of a mission, to visit a family where the wife had joined the Church, but where the husband was still skeptical. He talked most of the night with the man who pondered in his heart the things he heard, and as a result, joined the Church. His son, then a mere lad, listened to the conversation of that night with rapt attention. Later in calling the incident to mind he said to me, "That, too, was the night of my conversion as well as that of my father." This family moved to Utah and both the father and the son are occupying prominent places, one in the Church, the other in the State.. The driving force behind this man, who was the little boy in Ogden, is like unto the force that was kindled within his soul a8 he sat by the log cabin reading the book that his mother gave lm. His Sweetheart Gave Him the Book of Mormon Two or three years ago a young man came from the mountainous districts of Central Europe to Utah. He was not a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. His mother and a number of his sisters, and possibly a brother, had joined the Church. When he was a lad he went to live with an uncle, who was very prosper us, so that his association with the members of his own family lad not been as close as that of his brothers and sisters. He loved his mother, and brothers and sisters, but was not a little embarrassed over the fact that they had joined the socalled "Mormon" church. When he came to Salt Lake City it was not because of the sympathy for, or interest that he had in the "Mormon" people, but merely because he wanted to be with his mother. On the day of his arrival, his sister met him with a friend. He could not speak English, so there was no communication between them. He was well trained in a certain line of work, and so he induced his sister's friend to go with him and exnlain matters to a well-known business house in Salt Lake City with the thought of his obtaining a position. He obtained the position he sought, and became convinced that his first duty was to learn English. As a result, he entered a school that was very clove to his place of business. The friend also was near by in her studio. Frequently the young man came into her room to ask her to pronounce the words of his lesson. On one occasion she suggested that she would be glad to have him read to her and she would correct his pronunciation when faulty. He promptly agreed to the arrangement and his exvression was full of pleasure at the suggestion,—an expression that did not fade until she handed him the Book of Mormon.

--- gap ---

Has onyx enough in one county to build a counter and a

--- gap ---

It so happens that we have too little of such inspiration in the great working centers of population, but out here in the great valleys a

--- gap ---

The translations were printed in the mission magazine, The Messenger, and in this

--- gap ---

"And again the voice of God in the chamber of old father


========== BACK MATTER ==========

Ull o' Havoy Relief Society women—ask your grocer for Blue Pine Products