[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 808 | Special Feature | "No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light" Marianne | C. Sharp]
lowed buildings and acknowledge the prophetic words of President Taylor who said ''The adverse circumstances in which this work was done will not be thought of." 808 ad Th 9 SLT aT Neen has I sUlhagita ane eihhay se Hh seis tL PhP. (JD 10:150.) We do give little thought to the sacrifices of those early saints. Today temples are being erected in the world and an average of a meetinghouse a day is being built. It might be said that through obedience and sacrifice the saints today erect needed buildings, following the examples of our forefathers. Today there are three areas in a woman's living which seem to me to be threatened, and about which we need to find the answers from the lips of the prophets. We need to evaluate current sophistries in the light of eternal truths. Recently a woman said to me "Oh, I do what must be done every day in my home but at the end of the day I think, what have I accomplished — today? Nothing!" In answer to a woman who feels this way, President Daniel H. Wells said: No person can release us from the duties that devolve upon us as _ individuals. We each of us should shoulder our responsibilities and rejoice to embrace the privilege of performing the duties devolving upon us to do good in the Church and kingdom of God in the last days. This is an inestimable privilege which, once neglected, may never again return. (JD 10:142.) Just last year in our Relief Society conference, President Joseph Fielding Smith said: We must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty in the Church. (Relief Society Magazine, January 1969, p. 4.) Then, as Latter-day Saint women, let us accept these words of the prophets and find joy in our wifely, motherly, and homemaking duties as we realize that that work is the most important work for a Latter-day Saint woman to perform, and that no other work can make up for neglecting "those _ closest and nearest." A second fallacy which is being heralded far and wide is the notion that a woman is selfish to bring more than one or two children into the world, that if she does she is contributing to the starvation of millions. Do these false teachers forget the great commandment to multiply and replenish the earth given to Adam and Eve? President Lee said in an address given to Relief Society: If immortality, then, is the first step in the achievement of the Lord's work and his glory, it is readily to be understood that the process by which immortality is achieved is through the bearing of mortal offspring by mortal mothers in holy wedlock and sired by mortal fathers.

Woman's role in God's eternal plan of salvation has here, then, No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light been reaffirmed. (Relief Society Magazine, January 1967, p. 6.) This present-day wicked teaching, seeks to destroy the purposes of the Lord as mentioned by President Lee, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) A third present-day fallacy which seeks to destroy the eternal family unit is the deceptive teaching that the training a woman receives prior to her motherhood is too valuable to be wasted upon her home and children, but that she must get out into the marketplace and hand over the training of her children to others, perhaps to professionals in child-rearing. This denies obedience to the words of the Lord enjoined upon parents that they are responsible for the training of their own children. Thus we see the forces of Satan today seeking to destroy the Latter-day Saint woman's knowledge of her place in the Plan of Salvation; first, through belittling her role as homemaker; second, through limiting the number of children she should bring into the world; and third, through seeking to deny her the right and privilege to rear her own children, day by day and hour by hour. Under these _ circumstances what shall we as Latter-day Saint women do? Follow the leadership of the Church, obey the words of the prophets, and live so that the Holy Spirit may be our constant companion and guide. We believe in continuous revelation and we must accept it as. The Lord gives it to us through his prophets, blessed beyond measure 

809 November 1970

 to live in these momentous days. Satan seeks to muddy the concepts of right and wrong, to deceive the unwary. No one, as President Heber C. Kimball said, can endure on the. Borrowed light of another. Each one's testimust light her own path and direct her own actions. It is a time to remember "obedience is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams." One hundred seven years ago the Temple and the Tabernacle needed to be built. Today what needs to be done? Who can see how each directive of the Brethren fits into the events of these the last days? We cannot, but as Relief Society members, we can listen and obey the words of the prophets and live so that the Holy Spirit will guide us to our exaltation. & Enid F. Woolley Lonnavale, Heron, Tasmania, Australia Your tiny feet were in such a hurry it was almost inevitable that you should stumble and fall. I lifted you up and, with loving care, administered the bathing and medication which your grazed knees required—not forgetting the comforting hug and kiss so important to the mending of hurt knees and tingling pride. In a moment or two you were off again; your pace no less swift because of the recent mishap. I knew you would fall again; but I cannot keep you safely held in my arms because of this knowledge. Rather, you must be free to run, yes, free to fall, or you will never gain the ability to go swiftly and safely on your way. I would not keep you from hurts, my little one, for in the march of life the one who arrives is he who knows how, having fallen, to scramble undaunted to his feet again; it is he who is ready to go on with the march. You must fall to stand again, wiser, stronger, and readier, and I must let you fall, must let you struggle unaided to regain your stance. This I will do; but pray the dear Lord that I may be there to help you if you cannot rise alone. Surely these things are part of a mother's sacred trust. % In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in November or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue.