GONE TO REST.

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, on the evening of July 4th,
1884, after weary months of suffering, Sister Jemima
Nightingale Davis. Born November 19th, 1834, in Sal-
ford, Manchester, England.
	Sister Davis has been an active and efficient member
of the visiting committee of the Relief Society of the 17th
Ward for many years, always cheerful and willing to
perform the arduous duties of that office until her health
broke down about a year ago.
	I visited her frequently during the last few weeks of
her illness, and I think I speak advisedly when I say she
was a faithful, consistent saint of God.
	On one occasion she told me that if she could get well
she felt to devote herself still more to the work of God,
and let earthly matters go; but if she could not, she felt
resigned to the will of heaven, feeling that she would be
free from her sufferings, and God would be merciful to
her failings.
	The spirit of peace and quiet brooded over her home.
The last time I saw her quite conscious she fervently
clasped my hand again and again and bade me good bye
for this life. I asked her is she still felt that Father did
all things well. She answered, "Yes." I saw her for the
last time just a few minutes before she expired. The
same quiet was there, though her spirit was trembling
between the frail clay that imprisoned it and the free-
dom for which it yearned. Her family was around her,
and her faithful daughter Janey soothed th dying mo-
ther, as she had comforted and blessed her for so long.
Her husband and children have sustained an irrepara-
ble loss, but she has gained life in the presence of
God.
	May the Spirit of God comfort and sustain them, and
may they lean on His all-mighty arm, theu will they
find a balm for every woe, and angels will comfort the
heart that mourns.
	As a society and as friends we deeply sympathize with
her family in this their great loss, yet feel that all is
well, for she passed away in the hope of a glorious res-
urrection, when we, with them, will meet her again, if
in our lives we are true and faithful as she has been.
					Lovingly,		S. D. ALDER.


For Sale at this Office.

