DEAR EDITOR:
	In taking a retrospective view of this nation's
history, and comparing the past with the pres-
ent, we are led to exclaim, "How the mighty
have fallen!" Yes, fallen from that standard
of broad, liberal, spirited patriotism and freedom
and love of the principles of equal rights, that
animated the founders of this great nation. My
mind travels back to the day that Patrick Henry
made his speech which secured the signing of
the Declaration of Independence. I can picture
in my mind the scene, when men were ready to
lay down their lives to secure unto posterity the
heavenly boon of freedom; when every breath
was, as it were, hushed, and the moment came
for the Committee of Three to present the docu-
ment to be signed. What an awful moment!
What a responsibility! Yet did they falter? For
a moment only. While looking at the magni-
tude of the struggle that would ensue, and, see-
ing in case of failure, the axe, the scaffold and
the gibbit, then every man was ready to sign.
I can picture the scene when the fierce, bold
voice of Patrick Henry rang through the assem-
bly, making men start to their feet, and the fire
of freedom and independence to course through
their veins, and the inspiration of God to impel
them to sign. Yes, the Almighty ruler of the
heavens and earth caused the men on that day
to be filled with inspiration and sign that parch-
ment, not only for themselves, but for all ages;
that it should be a test-book of freedom; the
Bible of the rights of man forever.
	It was inspiration that caused Patrick Henry
to implore them to remember that God had giv-
en America to be free. Then mark the struggle
that ensued to raise the standard of liberty and
freedom on this continent. Look at the battles
fought, the blood that was shed, and the perils
and hardships of the unequal contest to give the
American people the right to make their own
laws, to select their own officers, and to have a
voice in the counsels of their common country;
to stand on God's earth free men and women,
and cleave to the principles of the Constitution
which gave them that right. We honor the
men that have bequeathed unto posterity this
heavenly boon, and we, as a people, will stand
by the principles of freedom and equal rights,
the Constitution in its purity, as it was handed
down to us by the men that fought and died for
union and liberty.
	Let the men that hold the reins of govern-
ment pause, reflect and compare the present
corrupt condition of the nation with the past;
and above all they should remember that they
will be held accountable for the trust reposed in
them, for the faithful performance of their duty
as the servants of the people; let them remem-
ber their oath of office, as the custodians of the
people's rights, and not treat as enemies the
most loyal people that America can boast. How
can they, with the fact before them, when they
know that we are a law-abiding people, presume
to put their feet upon the necks of the people
and conceive a paragraph of a law like the fol-

[Column 2]
lowing, which takes the elective franchise out
of the hands of the Territorial Legislature, and
the right of suffrage of the women of this Terri-
tory is revoked. The Probate court is divested
of all jurisdiction over the estates of deceased
persons, that rightful heirs under existing laws
may be dispossessed of their inheritances. The
act of incorporation of the Church of the Lat-
ter-day Saints is so far annulled as to bring a
purely religious establishment under the politi-
cal management of trustees, to be appointed by
the President of the United States. What a
condesention! What liberty! What mockery!
Where can you find such oppression, such per-
version of the true principles of freedom. We
find that one of the complaints made against
the rule of England by our revolutionary fathers
was, "For abolishing our most valuable laws,
and altering the forms of our own government;
for suspending our legislatures and declaring
themselves invested with power to legislate for
us."
	That is the stand Mr. Hoar takes in his bill.
He thinks himself capable of legislating and
regulating the local laws of a community that
he knows nothing about. He is entirely at fault
with regard to enactments on our Statute books.
These Congressmen talk about ignorance in
Utah, but by comparing notes they can find
enough of it nearer home. When men that
hold the reins of government and the destiny
of this Republic in their hands are so ignorant
and blind to the interests of the country as to
establish a precedent that is a deadly thrust at
the fundamental principles of freedom, like the
one which they are trying to force upon the peo-
ple of this Territory, I think it shows an igno-
rance that would be inexcusable in a schoolboy,
much less in the rulers of the nation. As these
measures will not be confined to this Territory
whenever it seems expedient to the dominant
power to crush some obnoxious section of the
country, that precedent will be used for that pur-
pose, and a committee will be established, as
they have a "technical right" to take possession
of our property, and appoint a committee to use
it in whatever way they may think proper.
	What are they to do with Article 14, Section
1 of the Constitution, which says, "All persons
born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States, and of the State wherein
they reside. No State shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the priviliges or
immunities of citizens, nor shall any State de-
prive any person of life, liberty, or property, nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the law."
	How can men, with the Constitution before
them as a guide, seek to establish principles and
precedents that are diametrically opposed to the
principles of freedom, and that have within
them the seeds of revolutionary and seditious
elements that will engender civil war if carried
into effect, destroy the confidence of the nation
and undermine the very foundations of the
union.
	We, the ladies of Utah, tender our thanks to
the honorable men that have dared, in the face
of prejudice, and the popular clamor, to raise a
voice in behalf of our franchise, as we claim
that we have not forfeited our right to the bal-
lot, and we claim by the Constitution in Section
9, that "no bill of attainder or ex-post facto law
shall be passed." And we, as citizens and lov-
ers of justice and equity, admire the bold and
determined stand that has been taken by some
of the noble minded to maintain the principles
of the Constitution, and to protect the people in
their rights and privileges,
	We put our trust in God our Heavenly Father,
we have faith in Him, for we know that in His


own due time He will deliver us from the power
of our enemies. We are the sincere followers of
our Savior. He was reviled and persecuted, and
His sufferings were so great that He sweat drops
of blood, and He cried unto His Father in His
anguish that if it were possible for the cup to
pass by, "But not my will be done, but Thine."
We know the time is not far distant when the
wicked and ungodly shall be swept from the
face of the earth, and we are willing to suffer
that we may gain an eternal weight of glory in
the Kingdom of God.
	Praying for the triumph of truth over error,
and right over might, I am,
		Your sister in the cause of truth,
