38	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM LETTER, LAIE,
OAHU.

	I went to Sunday School with the children
this morning at 8 o'clock and to meeting at 10.
Brother Wilcox seems quite surprised at the
good order that is kept in the Sunday School,
etc. Morris has been gone now three weeks to-
day from Laie. I have heard from him two or
three times since he left, and he is getting along
as well as can be expected when traveling
among the natives.
	I received the things you sent, and we are all
delighted with them. They are just what we
needed, and just the fit. I thank you very
much for my presents, also Aunt Eliza; please
tell her. I took the little card she sent me for a
book mark to Sunday School, and some of the
brethren remarked about my nice present, and
of course it was just from Utah.
	Brothers Wilcox, Hyde and Tilby have just
been in for a few minutes. They are going to
visit some of the natives at their home meet-
ings. We had a very pleasant evening last
night, for it was the birthday of one of the
young missionaries, so we got up a little pro-
gramme consisting of singing, reciting, music,
etc., and we all enjoyed ourselves.
	Half past 10 o'clock. Just come from meet-
ing, which was held at the big house. While I
was writing to-day Brother and Sister Wilcox
came for me to take a walk, so I took the child-
ren and we all went for a stroll and did not get
back till dark, so it was impossible for me to fin-
ish writing, for as soon as I got through with
my bread and milk supper, it was meeting time.
The mail came to-night after meeting and I was
very much disappointed in not receiving any
mail, but when I looked the paper through and
found the heading of an article "Gathering of
the Snows," I felt quite comforted, and greatly
enjoyed reading and re-reading it, and imagined
you must have had an excellent time; and I
thought how I should like to have dropped in
and looked at you all for a minute, if I could do
it without neglecting my duty, but "Thy will,
O Lord, not mine, be done." I am glad I am
where I am, and thank God that I am counted
worthy to be among those who are willing to go
forth and work in His cause, which is indeed a
great one; and my greatest desire is that God
will bless me with sufficient of His Holy Spirit
to enable me to stand the trials that are placed
before me with a cheerful and humble heart,
feeling to say in my heart at all times "Father,
not my will, but Thine be done," and ever
praying for His Holy Spirit to guide me in the
right path and strengthen me, that I may be
able to do good and do my duty while I am here
on these Islands, and still continue with me
that I may ever be found doing good in God's
Kingdom. I had better close for the night for
it is getting late. Good night, and I ask God to
bless you.
	Tuesday 27th, twenty-five minutes after 8

[Column 2]
o'clock. Just come from prayers—been sewing
a little to day and talking with Sister Wilcox.
Sister Partridge and I have also practiced, with
the Primary children, some songs this afternoon.
Yesterday I spent with the children a few hours
in the forenoon, upon one of our little mounds,
studying Hawaiian. In the afternoon we went
to meeting, and we had a splendid little meet-
ing. I was really proud of our little native
children. When called on to read or sing they
would walk up to their places with such prompt-
ness and perform their parts well. One little
boy, who is quite smart, and has a good voice
for singing, who has been considerable trouble
to us, walked up and sang so nicely and took
such interest in answering with the others the
questions we put to them from the book,
"Bible Questions and Answers." I feel that the
Spirit of the Lord was really with us, and I hope
He will still continue to aid us with His Holy
Spirit, also these little ones, and I feel that He
will.
	The children are sleeping, but they wanted me
to say for them that they sent lots of kisses to
Aunt Eliza and grandma, and thank you for
their presents.
	The mail leaves here to-morrow for Honolulu,
and I am in some hopes of getting a letter or two
to-morrow when the mail comes in. I sewed
some on the machine last week—made three
cart covers—something similar to wagon covers
—for the mission, and the next morning they
sent me over a little piece of pig meat, the first
meat we have had for two weeks. We are liv-
ing very scant now, but I feel that we ought to,
for it costs a good deal just for the little we get,
and I pay my boy $2.00 a month for milking,
bringing the water and chopping the wood; but
since Morris has been gone we have spent very
little, and I keep track of every cent I spend,
and my flour and sugar have lasted much longer
than I thought they could; but I can see in so
many little ways that the Lord is watching over
us and blessing us, for which I thank Him
ever.
	It is now after 9 o'clock and I must go to bed,
but I must tell you first how nicely the children
take their turns in praying with me when we
have our morning prayers, which we have every
morning.
