PART FIRST.

	At this moment the eldest boy said,
"Pa, I wish the members of Congress
could have heard ma and Aunt Katie last night
when they read that in the Deseret News.  I
believe they would have felt very small; I 
know I would." "I am glad, my son, we do
not belong to hat honorable body, for we
would be in bad repute with your ma and
Aunt Katie." Here the young girl with the
blue eyes spoke. "Now, pa, you must not make
fun of ma and Aunt Eliza; you know they are
right, you are just as indignant as they are
sometimes.,' "True, my daughter, I am.  I
also think that many of the leading men of 
this nation are going mad over Mormonism."
"I think, pa, that men holding such responsible
positions should be very wise and good." "Yes, 
my daughter; they should not only be wise and
good, but they should adhere strictly to the
rules of the Constitution left us by our fathers."
"True, Edward," said Eliza, "but they do not;
and I think the policy of the leaders of our
nation is destructive to their own interests, for
when they take away our rights, it is but the
death knell of their own." "Pa, do you think
it is because of the plurality of wives that the
world speak evil of us?" "No, my son, the
world care nothing about plurality.  It is this 
latter-day work that they are arraying them-
selves against.  Their master, the evil one,
knows that his time is short, and he is stirring
up his most valiant emissaries to prolong his
rule; but he is short-sighted, and the very
course he takes to continue his reign only tends
to shorten it." "I think you are right, Ed-
ward; I often feel annoyed with the members
of Congress, and am surprised at their lack of
good common sense; but I realize that they are
used by the Lord to bring about His mighty
purposes. The world is fast going to decay.
The blood of Prophets and Apostles cries to the
Lord for vengeance.  I believe the time is
near when He will come and take vengeance
on the wicked."
	"Girls, did you read Mr. Mc.Bride's criti-
cism on Bro. Thatcher's article, published in the
Inter Ocean, and Apostle Thatcher's answer?"
"Yes, Edward," said Katie, "we did; and were 
very much surprised that an educated man and
an attorney should have written anything so
illogical and ungentlemanly.  Let me read a
little from his article." Here she rose and
came into the sitting room, took a copy of the
Deseret News from the table and returned.
"Listen, he says: 'It is not often that we bunch
the game so as to make one shot do effective
service, and now that the opportunity offers to
make Mr. Thatcher suffer for the Washington
Mormon agents in general, I propose to cruci-
fy this bantling of the crowd.  For him per-
sonally I have the same pity that follows weak
sinners who are the dupes of stronger men.
In the language of the Western Hunter, I do
not intend to leave enough of this normal of-
fender to warrant any effort to skin him for
future use by any one.' Mr. Mc.Bride further
states that although Brother Thatcher assumes
the authorship and responsibility of this letter,
it took ten or a dozen of our most talented men
to compose it.  But this is a sort of clap-trap
assertion to bias the minds of the readers of
the Inter Ocean against our worthy brother.  I
wonder who came to the assistance of Mr. Mc.-
Bride in getting up his violent tirade. The 
first part of his article appears to me like the
egotistic spluttering of an untutored school
boy. Instead of our brother being skinned, it
had no more effect upon him than the braying

[Column 2]
of an ungentlemanly d-o-n-k-e-y." Said Eliza,
"Only for truth's sake, and for the benefit of
the people generally did Apostle Thatcher con-
descend to notice this most conceited Shylock.
With what dignity does he answer the bom-
bastic charges of the learned attorney. No
slang. No threats. Sarcastic and satirical, I
will admit; but withal gentlmanly, and backed
up with undeniable facts—proving by living
records the truth of his statements. If such
are 'bantlings,' what giants in mind must be
our leaders who have reached maturity. On
the part of Mr. Mc.Bride, how full of low egot-
ism are the breathings of his pious soul." "Eli-
za, my wife, you state my sentiments exactly.
The attorney also charges the Mormons with
peculiarly enjoying the luxury of lying which
finds no illustration by others. He forgets that
he and his colleagues in Salt Lake have for
their organ the most filthy and untrouthful pa-
per on the earth." "Indeed they have, Ed-
ward, the attorney also doubts the assertion of
Apostle Thatcher, that thousands in Utah feel
contempt for his Honor, the Governor, and in-
sinuates that our feelings are more sinister than
mere contempt. Yet, notwithstanding the
great erudition and superior mathematical
qualifications of the handsome Murray, we
can assure the Hon. Mc Bride, that contempt
and pity are the only feelings the Latter-day
Saints have for his Excellency."
	Here Katie, whose blue eyes had been
sparkling with fun, started to her feet, said
she, "Listen; I am going to make a speech.
Now, Jenny, I am Mr. Mc.Bride, and you will
hear his sentiments.  I think I hear him now:
'Gentleman and Ladies:—You see be-
fore you the oldest of living bantams.  One
who knows the Mormons from beginning to
end, from the secrets of their Endowment
House to the innermost chambers of their ha-
rems.  Not that I was ever there, the Lord for-
bid; only I have been posted on these matters
by that much abused and virtuous woman, Ann
Eliza. I am, my brethren, by profession a
hard shelled Baptist; but being a lawyer I am
always on the qui vive to hunt up the myster-
ies of the kingdom. As I said before, I am a
hard shelled Baptist, and my pious soul yearns
for the flesh pots of Egypt. I lay awake nights
dreaming of the full coffers of the Mormon
treasury. I pray to my Lord, earnestly, that
I may be chosen one of the trustees of this
most abominable church; that I may fill my
pockets with her worthless gold and my house
with her beauteous daughters. Not, my be-
loved friends, that I love their filthy lucre, or
wish for the favors of the fair sex. No, my
respected friends, I am too lowly of mind and
too virtuous for that, but that I might be the
savor of life and salvation to these poor, be-
nighted people. So let us put on the armor of
David, our great ancestor, and with a sling and
a stone strike these modern Philistines in the
back part of their heads, that we may save their
money and women from further pollution. Let
Murray be our watchword, and, in the lan-
guage of the Western Hunter and that gigan-
tic cuttle fish, let us not leave these bantams
even their skin for fear they may appear as
the shadow of their former selves, to take away
our liberty and our rights." Here a little fel-
low of twelve years clapped his hands and
said, "Oh, pa, I wish Mr. Mc.Bride could hear
ma! I do not think he would talk any more
of things he knows nothing about." "My son,
I do not know whether you are competent to
make such an assertion." "Now, pa, you know
I can read very well. I received the first prize
for reading in my class; and when I hear ma
and Aunt Eliza talk of what is in the papers, I
read for myself; and I do not think people
would talk as they do if they knew more about
us." "I know, my son, you are a good reader,
but I did not think your young mind could grasp
so much; and I think you do not understand

[Column 3]
the craft of our enemies, nor can you compre-
hend the depths of the wickedness of these men
to pervert the truth." "The gentleman says,
pa, that our woman hold no property. Now,
I know that Brother H—has given all his
wives the deeds of their homes. And you
would do the same, pa, but we all live together
so you cannot.  No matter, for it all belongs
to ma and Aunt Katie, anyhow; eh, pa?" "I 
expect you are right, my son, they own the
home and us, too.  Not only Brother H—,
but hundreds of others have given deeds of
their homes to their wives; and so does this le-
gal gentleman know; but his memory is very
treacherous, as his article on the Mormon
problem plainly shows."
	As I listened to this spirited conversation,
and saw the flash of the eye, the curl of the
lip, the independent, dignified poise of the
heads of those plural wives, I was lost in
admiration, and thought that they needed no
pity from women who suppose themselves their
superiors.
	I was much amused at their sarcastic re-
marks, the contempt and fun they manifested
over the pros and cons of the press and the 
speeches of the members of Congress concern-
ing Utah, and the little fear they have in ref-
erence to their future. Trusting in God, they
manifested their patriotism, and an earnest de-
sire to obey all the laws given by the fathers
of this once free and happy country.  I could
not but think that men having such brave,
fearless, law-abiding, God-fearing wives and 
children must be worthy of being law-makers,
and consequently citizens of a state, instead of
disfranchised members of a territory.
To be Continued.


