	HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

	[Continued.]
Slowly she went; where next toil 
For shelter and for daily bread?
For ev’ry path seemed rank with sin,
	Virtue seemed helpless, vice her foe,
The skies were dark again o’erhead;
	“Father,” she prayed, “where shall I go?”

That night, within the humble room	
Where the few Saints in worship met,
'Twas asked, “How many can prepare
	To go to Zion far away?"
Her face with joyous tears was wet,
	“I’m ready, though it were to-day.”

For in her soul like hunger grew	
The wish to leave the world behind,
To gather to the fountain head
	And, ’mid congenial spirits, lend
Labors of hand and heart combined
	Towards the Gospel’s glorious end.

Without regret, with sacred joy,
She turned in sweet relief and rest;
Familiar faces, life-long scenes,
	Allurements, splendors, swiftly passed
Adown the stream, while upward pressed
	The bark in which her all was cast.

Ah, wondrous pilgrimage is this!
Stranger than Araby’s own charm
That leads the cloud-wrapt tribes;
	Not superstitious fear, but light, 
Leads them to God’s all-mighty arm
	From out the world’s long, weary night.

At last “the City of the Saints”		
Spread out before herlonging eyes,
And strangers met her, yet she knew
	That friendship in the Gospel’s bond
Was stronger far than kindred ties,
	And anchored in the great Beyond.

Friends came to meet the pilgrim Saints,
And as she gave the parting hand
To each, ’twas not with sadness, doubt;
	She knew the God that led her here,
All needful good for her had planned,
	And trusted Him with faith sincere.

Then the good missionary, that
Teacher and guardian had been,
Came with a lady.	’Twas a face
	Of noble beauty, tender, too;
'Sister Virginia, here’s a friend
	Extends a welcome unto you;

  Her home, companionship and care
Will meet your young life’s earnest need;
Trust in her counsel, for I know
	No kindlier heart, no nobler mind;
	In bearing, spirit, word and deed,
	True woman and true Saint combined.”

He led Virginia by the hand
To where the lady waited near,
And as she bowed, a white hand took
	Her own; a sweet voice gently said,
“Welcome to Zion, sister dear,”
	And to the waiting carriage led

The pilgrim girl.  “Brother, come, too.
Come spend the evening and relate
Your travels and your work, and help
	Our young friend here to ward away
The sense of desertion that plight await
	Since parting from her friends to-day.”

He bowed acceptance, turned and gave  
Some brief instruction to his men,  
Entered the carriage and they moved
	Out from the yard and down the street,
Past crowded marts of business, then
	Halted before a garden sweet

With blooming flowers and ample lawn;
In background rose an orchard old,
And ’round the cottage porch festooned
	Sweet honeysuckles; roses wreathed
Around the windows wide, and told 
	Home’s praise by ev’ry perfume breathed.

Standing beneath the group of trees 
Beside the gateway, this fair home 
Seemed to the weary wanderer
	The fairest spot on earth's brown breast;

[Column 2]
Here no regretful sigh should come,
	Ungrateful of its peace and rest.

Within, what comfort seemed to reach
From easy chairs and mellow light; 
The centre table well supplied,
	The autumn fire, that seemed to speak
Warmth and glad welcome, till the white'
	Rose turned to red upon her cheek.

Then, as the twilight deeper fell
And shadows lost themselves in shade,
Another entered.	Fond the smile
	That met his wife’s, with pleasure true
Welcomed the Elder home, and made
	Virginia feel as welcome too.


[Column 1]
