OLD FOLKS EXCURSION, 1884.

	On the 22nd of July the Old Folks Excursion,
which, by the way, has come to be a regular
yearly occurence, went to American Fork.
There were about 600 passengers on board, and
plenty of cars to seat all comfortably and to take
on passengers at the several stations along the
route.
	The committee, of whom Elder C. R. Savage
is now acting chairman, In the absence of Elder
George Goddard, were in glorious spirits, and
determined the old folks should have a gala day.
An old folks choir (of young folks) led by W. H.
Foster, were on board and passed from one car
to another singing familiar, old fashioned songs
and melodies to gladden the hearts of the aged
veterans.
	The oldest lady on the train was Sister Mary
Bishop of the 10th Ward, aged 96 years, and the
oldest man brother, James Burgon of Union,
aged 91, Sister Almira Covey of the 12th Ward,


widow of Bishop Covey of this city, was remark-
able as being the oldest living member of the
Church now known; she was baptized in August,
1830, by David Whitmer, and confirmed by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was her own
cousin.
	Father Wilder, who is now a centurian, was
not quite equal to the journey this time, and
dear old Bishop Hunter, who has always before
seemed to appreciate the Old Folk's Excursion so
much, and thoroubhly enjoy the society of the
aged, has passed away since the last trip of the
company.
	All over ninety wore a badge of white ribbon,
over eighty wore blue, over seventy, red. There
were a considerable number wearing the blue,
and a great many wore red.
	Arrived at the depot the American Fork and
Pleasant Grove brass bands greeted the com-
pany with some soul-stirring music. Bishop
Bromley and his committee were on hand to
convey the people to Chipman's Grove, a short
distance away. On the route ten arches had
been erected, and covered with green boughs
and vines, and bearing the inscription, "Honor
to the Old Folks," "Welcome," etc. The grove
had been cleared and prepared with tables and
benches, also a platform and bowery for the
speakers, by a hundred and thirty young men
of the Y. L. M. I. A., under the direction of
Wm. W. Hunter, son of the late Bishop
Hunter.
	The exercises at the grove were very brief,
but pointed and spirited, calculated to bless and
comfort the aged. After singing and prayer
there was an address of Welcome by Bishop
Bromley, which was warm and heartfelt and
calculated to make all feel at home. Prest.
Angus M. Cannon made a very happy patriotic
speech, one that every good and loyal citizen
might respond to from his innermost soul. He
touched a very tender cord in the breasts of the
pioneer settlers of Utah. Apostle George Teas-
dale spoke forcibly and feelingly, and invoked
the blessing of God to descend upon the assem-
bly. T. A. Lyne, the veteran actor, once so
great a favorite on the boards of the Theatre, re-
cited a scene from William Tell, with a great deal
of the old fire and zeal in his manner, and indeed
it seemed an appropriate rendering. The meet-
ing was dismissed with singing and prayer, and
the committee distributed prizes to the oldest
and those who were in any special manner enti-
tled to the honor. The prizes consisted of para-
sols, canes, hats, collars, teapots, dress patterns,
handkerchiefs, neckties, tea, tobacco, wine, and
various other things. The donations had been
liberal and the committee seemed well posted on
the matter of distribution. Good humor and
mirth prevailed and all was done quietly and in
good order.
	The "Old Folks' Committee" are a very effi-
cient body and certainly deserve great credit for
the very able manner in which they conduct
these large excursions of aged people. All re-
turned home feeling satisfied and contented
with the exercises and enjoyment of the pleas-
ant day spent in each others' society.


