STATES.

	At the last annual meeting of the Woman's
Home Missionary Society of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, held in Cincinnati, Ohio,
Nov. 13th, the following resolutions were adop-
ted.
	Resolved: That a Committee be appointed to
confer with the civil and religious of Salt Lake,
and to make careful investigation of the relation
of the ballot in the hands of the women of Utah,
to Territorial legislation and to Congressional
Representation at the National Capital, and
above all as to its power to perpetuate the reli-
gious bondage and domestic slavery of the
women so enfranchised, and if upon such con-
ference and examination, they shall find the
facts to warrant, they shall draft a petition to
Congress for the disfranchisement of the women
of Utah.
	The committee appointed in pursuance of the
above resolution, having made the investigation
required, find that the women of Utah were en-
franchised by an Act, approved February 12,
1871, that the Act was passed by the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, all the mem-
bers of that body being men high in authority
in the Mormon Church, and that it is the testi-
mony of reliable witnesses, of the Territory who
are familiar with the facts, that the authorities
of the Mormon Church placed the ballot in the
hands of the women of Utah for the sole pur-
pose of neutralizing the votes of non-Mormons,
who at the date of this Act were settling in this
Territory in considerable numbers. The com-
mittee likewise find that under the provisions
of this Act aforesaid, which makes the wife of
a native born or naturalized citizen a legal voter,
foreign born women who have married citizens
within a few days or weeks of their arrival in
Utah are permitted to vote at elections occuring
less than six months after their arrival in this
country, and that many votes are thus cast at
every election by foreign born women who are
wholly ignorant of our institutions and laws,
and in many cases of our language. No subse-
quent law has changed these conditions except

[Column 3]
under the rulings of the Utah Commission they
must be six months resident. This committee
also find that the Mormon women thus enfran-
shised are bound by obligations which they con-
sider sacred to obey the authorities of the Mor-
mon Church in things temporal as well as spir-
itual, and that to cast a vote in opposition to the
will of these authorities is to incur the penalty
of excommunication. They also find that the
laws of Utah, which deprive the wife of the
right of dower, and of any claim upon the prop-
erty or earnings of her husband, give the hus-
band the power to punish the wife for disobedi-
ence, by depriving her of a home and of the
means of support; and as this power is and has
been exercised to compel women to submit to
to the introduction of plural wives into the
household, it is not reasonable to suppose that
a wife will risk the loss of a home and the
means of support by voting in opposition to the
commands of her husband and the authority of
the Church. The committee find further that
as a consequence of the subjection in which
Mormon women are held, they vote as a unit for
the men selected by the Church to fill all the
offices in the gift of the people. Should the act
conferring suffrage upon the women of Utah be
annulled, the power of the Mormon leaders
would be weakened by the loss of about 12,000
voters, and it would be possible in some instan-
ces to elect as county officers and members of
the Legislative Assembly, men who do not owe
primary allegiance to the Mormon Church. Un-
der existing conditions Mormon women perpet-
uate their own slavery by voting only for men
who can be relied upon to carry out the will of
the First Presidency of the Church. As mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly, and as county
and municipal officers, these men clothe the ex-
actions of the Church with the forms of law,
and cement the union of Church and State, and
through their Delegate to Congress and other-
wise they persistently oppose any legislation de-
signed to lessen the power of the Mormon
Priesthood. For the reasons above given your
petitioners therefore pray that the act conferring
the right of suffrage upon the women of Utah
be annulled.
	The names attached to this paper represent at
least 250,000 women of the different Christian
denominations in this country, through the offi-
ces of the several benevolent and philanthropic
associations included in the list.

