OGDEN CITY.

	Our Conference was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle June 20th, 1884, commencing at 10
a.m., conducted by our beloved President, Jane
S. Richards, with her Counselors, Hattie C.
Brown and Sarah I. Herrick. We had the
company of Apostle F. D. Richards, President
L. W. Shurtliff and wife, President Eliza R.
S. Smith; Treasurer Melissa Hall, Brothers W.
G. Child, Mark Hall, Bro. Garner, Bishop
Maycock and others; also Presidents of branch
societies.
	After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes, etc., President
Jane S. Richards made a few opening remarks,
expressing her great joy in again meeting with
her beloved brethren and sisters. Felt that
they had met for the purpose of diffusing
knowledge one to another. Spoke of the won-
derful goodness of the Lord unto us as a peo-
ple; hoped we would gain strength and comfort
thereby to go on rejoicing in the good work we
have begun etc.
	Our much beloved President, Eliza R. S.
Smith gave us, as usual, much wise instruction
in regard to the sublime principles of our holy
religion. Referred to the judgments of the
Lord coming upon those who refused to do His

[Column 2]
will and were enemies to the cause of truth.
She felt sorry and grieved to hear of the dis-
asters and trouble that were befalling many
places in the world. Exhorted us to live near
to God, to teach the young and rising genera-
tion to have great faith in the God of Israel;
train them more in the ways of the Lord, cul-
tivate their minds and hearts to higher and
nobler thoughts and aims, and not so much in
the fashions and follies of the day. Spoke con-
siderably upon the youth of Zion; knew the
Lord would have a tried people, but we would
yet be free, and God will reign over us. Let
us grow better day by day that we can stand
with Christ our elder brother when He ap-
pears.
	President L. W. Shurtliff felt to endorse all
that had been said by those who had spoken.
He took great pleasure in meeting with the
Saints of God. Referred briefly to the educa-
tion and cultivation of the young people of
Utah. Also spoke of the great and noble
work of womankind, etc.
	Apostle F. D. Richards spoke principally
upon the law and order of tithing and of mar-
riage, and the great work devolving upon the
Saints in regard to the dead as well as the liv-
ing. Thought that all had a work to perform
in the Temple, and not to put it off while the
day lasts, for none of us know how soon we
may depart this life. It is our duty to do all
we can for the dead while we are upon this
stage of life. He also quoted from different
parts of Scripture.
	The morning service closed with singing the
following:

l had a dream the other night; I saw some wonderful
		things:
I saw the end of nations, likewise kingdoms and kings;
I saw the Savior come, for the time was nigh at hand,
He did descend from heaven to earth with all His holy
		band.

Before He reached the earth I heard a shout so great:
Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go, ye virgins, Him to
		meet.
Behold some were foolish, the others they were wise,
Their lamps were trimmed; they left the earth to meet
		Him in the skies.

The foolish then in anguish cried, oh, whither shall we
		go?
The wise have gone to meet Him and left us here below.
Oh, sell of your oil, they cried, that we with you may
		dwell.
The answer that the wise gave them, we have no oil to
		sell.

I saw the wicked’s destruction; It was a sight to see;
From the presence of Jehovah they knew not where to
		flee;
They called for rocks to fall on them, but, alas, they
		called in vain;
By the brightness of His glory the wicked were all
		slain,

"This time I saw Him coming; it was not as before;
The whole creation trembled, the Saints did Him adore;
He came, He came in glory, with healing in His wings;
He came as King of Israel, to reign as King of Kings."
	The afternoon session commenced with sing-
ing and prayer. Presidents of the various
branch societies then gave a very favorable re-
port of each respective society, followed by
Counselors Hattie C. Brown and Sarah I. Her-
rick. Each bore a faithful testimony to the
work of God.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith again spoke on
many interesting subjects. Touched upon
character, conscience, the work for our dead,
the law and order of tithing, and its being
taught to children, and many other things, ex-
plaining each subject in a beautiful and accept-
able manner to the Saints, who listened with
great joy and satisfaction. Sister Eliza occu-
pied one hour, lacking five minutes, in the
afternoon. All present felt that the Spirit of
the Lord rested upon her to a great extent.
Long may she live to be a shining light among
the Saints of God.


﻿Apostle F. D. Richards also gave much
wise counsel and instruction to those present
in regard to the various duties they were called
upon to perform, blessing the congregation in
the name of the Lord and exhorting them to
be faithful and true to their religion.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith then gave in the
resignation of Sister Sarah J. Herrick as Sec-
ond Counselor to Sister Richards. Sister Her-
rick being President of the Young Ladies' As-
sociations of Weber Stake of Zion, felt that it
was her duty to give them more of her
thoughts and time, and to do this it was neces-
sary on account of her multiplicity of cares,
etc., to tender her resignation.
	Sister Smith then asked if this resignation
would be accepted by the sisters. It was
accepted, after which Sister Emily Shurtliff
was unanimously voted for to take the place of
Second Counselor.
	We regret that Sister Herrick has deemed it
necessary to resign her position. She has been
Counselor to Sister Richards for many years,
and has been a diligent co-worker with her
in every duty. She is beloved by all who
know her.
	After a few closing remarks from Sister
Richards conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing and benediction.
					MONTA HARRIS,
							Secretary.


