A VISIT TO KENI[-]WORTH.

	How well I remember the dawning of that
lovely June morning on which I, with a party
of friends and fellow travelers, set out to visit
the famous ruins of Kenilworth, renowned in
history as one of England’s oldest ruins, and
the seat of many historical and tragic events;
endeared to all lovers of romance (and who of
us but has some romance in his nature?), by
Sir Walter Scott's beautiful tale, of which poor
Amy Robsart is the heroine.  Well, between
history and romance I was on the qui vive for
a thorough inspection of all that remained of
this famous castle.
	We lodged the night previous at a most pic-
turesque inn; and as we set out on horseback
with a guide attending, the fresh morning
breeze, the twittering of birds, and the sun just
rising over the green hills, formed so perfect a
day and so invigorated all, that had I been an
observer of the party it would not have been a

[Column 2]
very great stretch of imagination to have sup-
posed us some gay cavalcade of a past age on
a visit to a lordly entertainment. It was but
a short ride before the massive structure ap-
peared to our view; and as we slowly ap-
proached it, the appearance in that lovely
morning light was beautiful beyond my power
of description.
	Built of sandstone, time had mellowed the
color to a soft and most exquisite grey; the
green hills beyond, the blue sky above, photo-
graphed in my mind the loveliest of pictures,
each tint so blended with the other, that na-
ture left naught that could be desired.  The
complete ruin of the castle had a gothic ap-
pearance, though history tells us the large and
massive "keep," which was the citadel of the
castle, bore the name of Caesar. But no matter
when founded, let antiquaries quarrel over that,
we will gaze our fill at the huge grey ruin that
lies before us. It is composed of a gigantic pile
of castellated buildings, from their structural
design, apparently of different ages, surround-
ing an inner court. But I anticipate; we were
told by our guide that the outer wall of this
splendid castle enclosed seven acres, a part of
which was occupied in times past by extensive
stables and a large pleasure garden; but there
are now no traces of its trimmed arbors, beauti-
ful lawns and choice flowers, once lovely to be-
hold.
	The noble castle itself, which is in the centre
of this enclosure, was composed of a huge pile
of magnificent buildings, as I said before, sur-
rounding an inner court, each bearing an ap-
propriate name.  The external wall of this roy-
al castle was bounded by a partly artificial
lake, over which at the time of the haughty
Leicester’s residence here he had caused to be
constructed a beautiful bridge, that on the oc-
casion of Queen Elizabeth’s visit here she
might enter by a new way.  Beyond this lake
is a tract of land covered with lofty trees, be-
fore which the ruins are outlined in majesty
and beauty.  The lake is now a rushy swamp;
the trees which once were trimmed to stand ma-
jestically in the open air, now interlace their
branches so thickly that the sun’s rays scarce
penetrate to the ground.
	As I stood enraptured in the scene before
me, there came to my mind the exquisite sen-
timent of Sir Walter Scott, where he tells us,
“The massive ruins of the castle only tend to
show what the splendor once was, and to im-
press on the musing visitor the transitory val-
ue of human possessions and the happiness of
those who enjoy a humble lot in virtuous con-
tentment.”
	But I must not stop to quote, for we have
but the day before us, and there is still much
to see.  The famous (we might almost call it)
Elizabethan Bridge has fallen into decay, so
we were obliged to enter as commoners, by the
usual way.  The gate house which Leicester
erected on the north, still exists, and is a castle
in itself, of most beautiful architectural design.
Next we go to the Gallery Tower, which de-
rives its name from the bridge extending to the
opposite building, called Martiner’s Tower,
where ladies were wont to gather to witness
the feats of chivalry, for on the opposite side
of the lake, between these two, was a tilt yard,
defended on either side by strong and high
palisades.  Erom here we pass to the inner
court of the castle, entered by the great gate-
way which is between Caeser's tower and the

[Column 3]
grand building known as King Henry’s Lodg-
ing. This is in the very midst of these grey-
walled ruins, which represent the magnificent
specimens of architecture from the Conquest to
the time of Elizabeth.  Across this inner court
there was shown to us a small tower, the upper
part of which was reached by narrow, winding
stairs where there was a small room, generally
said to have been used for the confinement of
some unhappy person who was there murdered.
It was called the Tower of Nervyn, the legend
telling that Nervyn died here. From the small
window of the chamber could be seen what
was called the “Pleasance,” a small space of
ground ornamented with arches, statues, foun-
tains and architectural monuments, now mostly
fallen to decay. We were told that this was
the room where the beautiful Amy Robsart
had lodged when she escaped from Cumor Hall
to Kenilworth.
	The lovely twilight of this country was steal-
ing upon us.
	“The dews of summer night did fall;
		The moon, sweet regent of the sky,
	Silvered the walls of Kenilworth,
		And many an oak that grew hereby.”
ere we could bear to tear ourselves away.
