	DAISY.


﻿“The Number Seven.—Hippocrates says the
septenary number, by its occult virtues, tends
to the accomplishment of all things, and is the
fountain of all the changes in life; and, like
Shakespeare, he divided the life of man into
seven ages.  The teeth spring out in the 7th
month or sooner, and are shed and renewed in
the 7th year, when infancy is fully changed
into childhood; at twice 7 years puberty begins;
at 3 times 7 years the adolescent faculties are
developed, manhood commences, and men be-
come legally competent to all civil acts; at 4
times 7 man is in full possession of all his
strength; at 5 times 7 he is fit for all the busi-
ness of the world; at 6 times 7 he becomes
wise, if ever; at 7 times 7 he is in his apogee,
and from that time decays; at 8 times 7 he is in
his first climacteric; at 9 times 7, or 63, he is in
his last or grand climacteric; and at 10 times
7, or three-score and ten, he has approached
the normal period of life.”
	The Massachusetts Medical Society in its
one hundred and third anniversary meeting,
held in Boston, June 10th and 11th, voted to
amend the by-laws so as to admit women.
	“At four o’clock an adjourned meeting of
the Society was held. After a long and ani-
mated discussion the Society voted to amend
the by-laws so as to admit women to the Socie-
ty. This action to become effective must be
concurred in by the Councillors, and a com-
mittee was appointed to present the wishes of
the Society to that body in the evening. Even-
ing reception. At 5 p.m. a reception and colla-
tion were tendered to the members of the Socie-
ty by the Medical Faculty of Harvard Univer-
sity at the new Medical College, and the new
building was exhibited. In the evening the
usual annual meeting of Councillors was held
at the Medical Library, and the question of
the admission of women was discussed and act-
ed upon.  The action of the Society in the af-
ternoon session was sustained, and in the future
women will be admitted on the same terms as
men.  This ends the struggle that has been go-
ing on for several years."


