AGAINST THE MORMONS.

	Our readers will doubtless remember the
mention made in the EXPONENT of Nov. 15th
ult., of a meeting held in Cincinnati at which
Mrs. Angie F. Newman of Nebraska, spoke up-
on the Mormon question, and described the con-
dition of the women of Utah, thereby creating
"a strong feeling of interest in behalf of the
down-trodden, ignorant creatures," and quite a
large sum of money was raised for the purpose
of establishing an industrial school. Subse-
quently a petition was drawn up and on the 16th
of June, 1884, presented in the United States
Senate by Senator Hoar of Mass.
	In May, Mrs. Newman visited Salt Lake
City, and soon after her arrival called at this
office and also at the office of the Deseret News.
Immediately after receiving her we showed her
the EXPONENT which contained extracts from
the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette, and from
the Cincinnati Inquirer. She seemed surprised,
and after looking at the paper stated that she
obtained her information from Ann Eliza
Young, her books, etc., whereas in her lecture
in Cincinnati she said, "I have spent much time
in Utah." She denied having said, "Every
house in Utah is a house of prostitution." This
was all, however, that she declared to be un-
true in the reporter's statements.
	Mrs. Newman, in conversation, said she had
come to Utah to see for herself, and to examine
the subject and doctrines of the "Mormon"
Church. She is a very intelligent lady, a woman
of wealth, position and influence in the world,
and is no doubt capable of doing great good for
her own sex and in society if she would devote
her energies in the proper channel, but she has
taken hold of a matter she can never handle to
do herself any credit, nor will she do the women
of Utah any particular harm. Some very
pointed and spirited articles were written by
young women (plural wives), in answer to Mrs.
Newman, and were published in December and
January last in the EXPONENT. These papers
were sent to women of influence in the world
and to several members of Congress, in order
that the false statements which had been made
publicly might be refuted.
	When Mrs. Newman came here she was not
aware that the Latter-day Saint women knew
that she had lectured on their status and condi-
tion, and seemed much surprised that we knew
of it. She met, while in this office, Bishop O.
F. Whitney and Bishop H. B. Clawson, and
both these gentleman talked with her on the
subject in which she had manifested so much
interest. She said she should call again to have
some further conversation and to get informa-
tion on our subject, but she never came.
	I suppose her time was wholly occupied in cir-

[Column 2]
culating the petition she brought with her, and
in making the necessary arrangements for get-
ting the matter before Congress. No doubt she
received very efficient help from clergymen and
others here, for it seems she succeeded in her en-
terprise. Mrs. Newman knows very well that
the women of Utah do not need any assistance
such as she or her friends can render them, that
their condition is that of contentment and pros-
perity.
	We give below the petition in full, in order
that our readers may know its full intent. La-
dies interested in the suffrage movement in the
States have written us asking information con-
cerning the course pursued in Utah by the
women who favored this petition, and denounc-
ing in very strong terms the action on the part
of any woman to take away the right of suff-
rage.
	A leading woman in one of the most influ-
ential States in the union "denounces the Ed-
munds bill as the vilest outrage upon the Ameri-
can women, and one which deserves to be
stricken from the calendar of the United States
Congress."
	Another says, "Is it true that the opposing
women of Utah have asked such an outrage?"
and then asks for information concerning the
movements made, and so on.

