	MEDITATIONS.

	I feel happy to-day while alone meditating
on the work of the Kingdom of God in this
dispensation. The more I think about it the
more beautiful it appears. I am led to say,
"God moves in a mysterious way," but when our
understandings are enlightened by the Spirit
of the Lord we can see things that we never
could have seen or understood. What would
the outside world give to-day if they could un-
derstand the principles of the Gospel as we do?
Would they seek to harm us? They would not.
Then ought we not to try and live in obedience
to the commandments of our Father in heaven?
Though all the world be arrayed against
us it does not hurt us in the least, or change
the belief of our knowledge of what we know
to be true. When our Father in heaven shows
us through the gift of His Holy Spirit that the
order of plural marriage is right and accept-
able in His sight, how can we say in our hearts
that we cannot comply with the commands of
that God, who holds and controls all things ac-
cording to His own will. Who has the right
on earth to question our Heavenly Father for
giving a revelation to His servant Joseph
Smith for His sons and daughters to obey, that
they might return to His presence from whence
they came? I can say with an honest heart
that that principle was made clear to my under-
standing by the spirit and power of the Holy
Ghost, and not by the preaching or teaching
of any human being. We cannot enter into
the presence of our Heavenly Father unless
we obey the celestial law when we have a
knowledge of it. And who in this wide
world has any right to trifle with our conscience?
I answer no one; and when they undertake to
try they never make any headway, and they
never will. The outside influence does not
trouble us. Why do our enemies try to frust-
trate the principles and desires of heaven? We
cannot help believing and putting into prac-
tice what we know to be true, and they are
throwing away time when they try to make us
comply with their wicked plans, for when the
Saints are filled and guided by the Spirit of the
living God and Father of our spirits, what
have we to fear? I say nothing but our own
dear selves, and if we all endeavor to save one
there is no cause for fear.
	There is no power beneath the heavens that
will prevent the Latter-day Saints from obey-
ing the order of celestial marriage, and from
living and increasing in numbers; nothing but
our own unfaithfulness will ever deprive us of
that great blessing, for it is a blessing above
anything that we can comprehend. 
	If we live true to the commandments of God
I think by the time they imprison a few more
of our brave young sisters they will find they
cannot make them afraid of anything. Young
sisters, be true to yourselves, your religion and
your God, and though all evil power may be
arrayed against you, not one hair of your head
shall be harmed.
	It is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to
send petitions up to our Heavenly Father in
behalf of breathren and sisters who are in bond-

[Column 2]
age for the Gospel's sake, that they may be
firm and strong in their determination never to
betray any of the Lord's anointed. Feel proud
that you are worthy to suffer tribulation for
the truth's sake. Know ye that your reward is
in heaven. Our enemies are in the hands of
God, and He will do with them as it pleaseth
him. He is the same God that delivered His
servant Daniel from the lion's mouth and the
three Hebrew children from the fiery furnace.
The time will come when the bonds will be
broken and prison doors be opened by the
Spirit and power of the Lord God of Israel,
and then, vain man, where will be your power
and your pride? It will fall to rise no more.
Our Heavenly Father fully understands your
plans, and He knows how to thwart them, for
He has done so in times past and He will con-
tinue to do so until the kingdoms of this world
are overthrown and become the kingdoms of
our Lord Jesus Christ, and the Saints of the
Most High God will possess the kingdom for
ever and ever, and this is why we can afford to
suffer persecution, and, like the Apostle Paul,
we rejoice in tribulation.
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
	Kaysville, June 8th, 1884,


We acknowledge receipt of the Circular of the
Brigham Young Academy for the Ninth Aca-
demic year, 1884—1885. The Circular gives
a Historical Review in brief of the institution
and specifies each department. Karl G. Maeser
is the Principal of the Academy, which is in
charge  of a Board of Trustees. This high
school is select and is one of the best in the
country, and should receive the patronage and
support of the people of the Territory.

	Sisters M. I. Horne, J. S. Richards and E.
S. Taylor have returned from an extended trip
through Sevier Stake, having held 22 meetings
and traveled by team 250 miles. In our next
we will try to give a sketch of their travels
and labors; also some others of the sisters' jour-
neyings among the people.

	Before his death Charles Reade wrote the
following epitaph, which is about to be placed
on his tomb:—
Here Lie,
By the side of his Beloved Friend, the mortal
remains of
CHARLES READE,
Dramatist, Novelist, and Journalist.
His last words to mankind are on this stone.

	I hope for a Resurrection, not from any
power in Nature, but from the Will of the
Lord God Omnipotent, Who made Nature and
me. He created Man out of Nothing, which
Nature could not. He can restore Man from
the Dust, which Nature cannot.
	And I hope for Holiness and Happiness in a
Future Life, not from anything I have aid or
done in the body, but from the Merits and Me-
diation of Jesus Christ.
	He has promised His Intercession to All
who Seek it, and He will not break His Word;
that Intercession once granted cannot be re-
jected for He is God, and His Merits Infinite:
A man's sins are but humble and finite.
	"Him that cometh to Me, I will in no wise cast out."
	"If any man sin we have an advocate with
the Father, Jesus Christ, the Righteous, and
He is the propitiation of our sins.”
	No one who knew Charles Reade will doubt
the sincerity of this profession of faith. It is
curious that he describes himself as dramatist
first.  His novels are his best works, but he
longed, above all things, for the fame of a play-
wright.”


