Officers Meeting President's Report and Official Instructions Amy Brown Lyman, General President N behalf of the General Board, I welcome you here today to this most important meeting—the general officers' meeting. One of the joys of our general conferences is to meet thus intimately with you— the key women of our organization who bear so much responsibility in connection with the work. We feel as Paul did when in his epistle to the Romans he spoke of his desire to be with them that they might all be comforted and lifted up together by their mutual faith. The object of our semi-annual conferences, as you know, is to give inspiration, direction and unity to our work and to renew our devotion to it. May this object be fulfilled. We are indeed grateful to you for your efficient and unselfish service. I am sure the General Authorities appreciate your activity in, and support of, the Church welfare program. We wonder sometimes how you accomplish so much. We know we can depend upon you at all times. You have our confidence and love, our faith and prayers, and we ask you humbly for your faith and your prayers in our behalf. We appreciate the splendid and oftentimes streriuous work of our ward presidents and the work of the other ward officers and special workers, all of whom you are directing so ably. We appreciate the work of our class leaders, both stake and local, who are so diligently building up our educational departments, in many instances the work approaching the professional. We take great pride in the work 292 of our visiting teachers. We feel that they are performing their work with dignity, and that they are confining their discussion in the home to subjects which have been outlined for them, and which are in harmony with the spirit of Relief Society and the spirit of the Gospel. We are pleased to note that the teachers' messages this year are bearing fruit in that they are stimulating attendance at Priesthood meetings. What a fine thing it is that our women are gaining a better understanding of the work and duties of the Priesthood, and that they are showing a willingness to support, encourage, and sustain their husbands and sons in this work. 

 

 Organizations and Reorganizations Since our last conference, twelve stakes and two missions have been reorganized, and five new stakes have been organized (listed below), bringing the total stakes in the Church to 137. We appreciate the splendid work done by these retiring officers, and plead for their continued interest and support in their home wards. We welcome the new officers and wish them every success in their new undertakings. A stake president, recently released, has written us, "I am enjoying a much needed rest and receiving a great deal of joy and comfort attending my ward Relief ORGANIZATIONS Stake *# ormerly Part of R*, Cottonwood Cottonwood Stake Appointed President Lucile B. Madsen Ethelyn D. States Mary M. Christiansen Gladys E. Huish Dorothy Ronnow REORGANIZATIONS Keno California Mission San Diego California Mission Southern Arizona California Mission Uvada Moapa and St. George Stakes Stake or Mission Released Stakes Alpine Maud D. Christensen Ensign Radie O. Hyde Grant Lois D. Cannon Gunnison Ila, D. Childs Inglewood Jennie Cluff Moapa LaPriel S. Bunker Nampa Minnie L. Rose Nevada Anna M. Aljets Pasadena Lena E. Woodbury Phoenix Elnora D. Shupe South Los Angeles Blanche S. Hoglund Teton L. Emma Cordon Missions Australian Della M. Judd California _ Nelle L. Macdonald Appointed President Fern A. Walker Lucena R. Card Martha W. Brown Orlene L. Henrie Josephine Prestwick Mae L. Larsen LaVera Aston Nellie C. Brunson Irene Ethel Boice Mabel D. Mortensen ' Hazel Neville Sadie H. Harris June C. Orme Minnie B. Blood Date December 23, 1940 February 9, 1941 February 9, 1941 March 2, 1941 January 12, 1941 Date January 19, 1941 January 31, 1941 March 16, 1941 January 26, 1941 January 8, 1941 January 5, 1941 February 23, 1941 November 10, 1940 March 28, 1941 November 16, 1940 October 27, 1940 September 29, 1940 February 27, 1941 February 10, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Society meetings. I was very happy when my ward president asked me to be a visiting teacher." Summer Period Our educational year, which has been very successful, draws to a close at the end of May. Activity during the four months following May will not be so strenuous. It will consist of a monthly work-and-business meeting, monthly visits by the visiting teachers, and, in September, preparation work for officers. (For recommendations as to membership activities during the summer of 1941, see page 313 of this issue of the Magazine.) As was indicated at the general conference last October, arrangements may be made for each visiting teacher to have one month free, if desired, by using substitute teachers or having teachers go singly one or two months, as necessary, during this particular period. September is a busy month for officers, however, being taken up with preliminary meetings when duties of officers and official instructions are reviewed and plans completed for the year's work. With each new year there are many new officers who greatly appreciate the help they receive in these meetings held preliminary to the regular educational year, which begins with October. Summer Contributions For General Fund So many requests have been made for suggestions on how to keep up the general fund in the wards, that the General Board has decided to make recommendations modifying the former ruling that all contribu- 293 tions collected by the visiting teachers be placed in the charity fund. The Board now recommends that during the period of eight months, beginning with October 1 and ending May 31, the funds collected by the visiting teachers be placed in the charity fund; and that during the period of the four months beginning June 1 and ending September 30, the funds collected by the visiting teachers be placed in the general fund. This change is to become effective in June, 1941, and the new plan should be thoroughly explained in Relief Society ward meetings before the end of May so that the families contributing, as well as the teachers themselves, will understand the procedure. Relief Society Projects Announcement was made at the general conference of Relief Society in October, 1940, that the General Board had modified and extended the use of Relief Society charity funds to include not only emergency relief and health and child-welfare purposes, as formerly, but also Relief Society welfare projects. Therefore, the need has arisen for clarification of Relief Society projects in relation to Church welfare projects. It is recommended that welfare projects initiated by Relief Society organizations, and financed from the charity funds, take the form principally of service projects, rather than production projects. This recommendation does not preclude Relief Society women from continuing to give service in connection with Church welfare projects, such as those relating to sewing and food preservation, but it is not expected 294 that Relief Society funds will be used to furnish and equip Church welfare centers. However, Relief Society charity funds may be used for equipment for Relief Society welfare projects which remain in the possession of the Relief Society, such as sewing machines, for example, even though such equipment is used part of the time in giving Relief Society service in conection with Church welfare projects. Examples of Relief Society service projects which may be financed from charity funds of the Society are— preventive and corrective health work, particularly with respect to maternity and infancy; child-welfare services of various types, including dental service for those unable to pay, and other greatly needed services for children; housekeeping service in emergencies, such as sickness and death, for those who are unable to pay, et cetera. Disbursements from Relief Society charity funds for service projects may include reimbursement for professional or other necessary workers, such as doctors and nurses, and expenditures for the necessary equipment and supplies for conducting such service projects. Service projects are designed to provide some of the needed welfare services which are not now ordinarily available from other Church funds, or from public funds. Change in Time of Magazine Campaign and Annual Subscription Report Suggestions have been received from many stakes that the time of the intensive, one-month campaign for subscriptions be changed from the fall 

 

 to the spring. We realize, however, that conditions vary from stake to stake and that it is impossible to designate any one month which would be most satisfactory to all stakes and missions. Therefore, the General Board decided at its meeting of March 26 to extend to stakes and missions the opportunity of conducting an intensive one-month campaign in the interest of the Magazine at any time during the year which is most convenient and timely for them, rather than to require a simultaneous campaign during the one-month period ending October 15, as formerly. It is expected that stake and ward Magazine representatives will continue to distribute their work throughout the year, insofar as possible, that each stake will conduct an intensive onemonth campaign at the time most suited to its local conditions, and that the time of the intensive effort be uniform for all wards in the stake. Irrespective of the time of year when the intensive campaign is conducted, the annual Magazine subscription report will cover the calendar year ending December 31, rather than the former Magazine subscription year ending October 15. (See page 303 for detailed instructions. ) Membership Goals Three years ago, the General Board inaugurated a four-year campaign to increase membership in the Relief Society to 100,000 members by the centennial year, 1942. 'This objective called for a membership increase of one-third, or 25,000 more than the 75,000 members who were on the'rolls as of December 31, 1937. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE This general goal of an increase of one-third over the enrollment as of December 31, 1937, has been applied generally in the various stakes and missions as their respective goals. It has been recognized, however, that all stakes and missions could not increase their membership at the same 'rate, because of varying conditions. In some districts, a large proportion of eligible women was already enrolled in Relief Society prior to the inauguration of the four-year campaign; other sections of the Church with a much greater number of potential members could easily increase more than one-third; and in still other areas, local conditions have justified some inevitable losses. In order to more closely relate the membership quota of each stake and mission to its actual possibilities, the General Board decided at a recent meeting to compute membership quotas on the basis of 60 percent of the number of Latter-day Saint women rather than on an increase of one-third over 1937 in all instances. This decision was made after a careful analysis of the membership statistics of all stakes and missions. There has been no change whatever in the announced goal of a Church-wide increase of 25,000 members during the four-year period ending December 31, 1941, in order to bring the total membership to 100,000 members by 1942. 'The task of enrolling the additional members has simply been reapportioned among the stakes and missions so that each district is assigned a like proportion of its eligible women as its individual goal. In order to reach our goal by the end of this year, an increase Of 9,000 members is re- 295 quired, and there are approximately 86,000 unenrolled women from which they may be enlisted. I call your attention especially to a little article in the Magazine for March, 1941, page 159, entitled, "Are You Enrolled As A Member Of Relief Society?" When members move away from a ward, officers should urge them to affiliate in the new ward in which they locate. Annual Dues I am wondering if we do enough follow-up work in the matter of annual dues. Let us not hesitate to remind any member regarding her dues. I was talking with a woman the other day who works and who can not attend meetings. She was surprised to learn from the secretary that she had not paid her dues. All she needed, she said, was a reminder. I am wondering, also, if we are giving a membership card as a receipt for individual dues. Iam very proud to carry my card in my handbag. Work-and-Business Meetings It is reported that a few wards, on work-and-business day, still prefer to carry on sewing activities while the short topic is being presented, instead of concentrating entirely on the subject at hand. It is the desire of the General Board that handwork be dispensed with during the formal topic presentation, which should cover approximately fifteen minutes. This shows proper respect to the teacher. At the close of the lesson presentation and during the informal discussion, there is no objection to handwork going forward, 296 In designating the ward leaders on work-and-business day, it is suggested that the one directing the work be known as "work leader," and the one directing the discussion be known as "home topic leader." Class Leaders and Lesson Work In the blue bulletin for November, 1940, it was recommended by the General Board that all lessons be given on the published dates for their presentation; and that if a ward class leader finds it impossible to give her lesson on the proper date, she should secure a substitute to take her place, well in advance of the day. This not only makes for the desired uniformity throughout the organization, but it enables stake officers and board members and other visitors and invited guests to know in advance when lessons are to be given in which they are especially interested, and it helps them to plan their visits accordingly. It was also urged that ward class leaders take an interest in the whole educational program, not only in the meetings where they are to conduct lessons, and that they participate in all class activity. Some teachers have felt that it is only necessary for them to attend on the day they teach. An exception to this plan would be where a class leader is regularly employed away from home, and can attend only on the day that she presents her lesson. Social Science Lessons For a number of years, the lessons scheduled for the fourth Tuesday of the month have been titled, "Social Service." In recent years, as the courses have referred to educational work rather than to principles of 

 

 social work, it is felt that a broader title should be used which would cover both phases of the work. We shall, therefore, in the future use the title, "Social Science," for this course. Blue Bulletins The blue bulletins, issued by the General Board to stake and mission Relief Society presidents, should be carefully read, not only by stake presidencies, but by the entire stake board. This should be done in order that the contents may be understood by all and that the special suggestions regarding any one department may reach that department head; for example, all messages regarding the lesson work should reach the class leaders. The information in the bulletin should then be adapted, enlarged, or modified according to the needs of the wards, and passed on to them. "Handbook of Instructions"And "Progress of the Church" A copy of the "Handbook of Instructions" for stake presidencies, bishoprics, and other Church officers, has, through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, been sent to all Relief Society stake presidents. It is hoped that stake officers will read the book carefully, and place it on file for reference. The answers to many questions that come up regarding Church policies are found in this volume. The "Progress of the Church," which is likewise sent to Relief Society stake presidents through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, should also be carefully read and placed on file. Relief Society Centennial Our centennial is drawing near. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Only one year remains before that event. We have been greatly pleased with the interest you are manifesting, and we are interested in your plans for local observances on March 17, 1942. As has been announced, the general Church-wide celebration will be held in Salt Lake City in connection with our next April conference. The Salt Lake City stakes, because of their close-in location, and because of their desire to avoid repetition and duplication in the City, have consented to hold their commemoration exercises in connection with the Church-wide celebration in April. March 17, however, will not be overlooked by them in their local units. Anthology of Relief Society Poems We are pleased to announce that during the next year the General Board expects to publish a book—an anthology of Relief Society poems. In 1924, one year after the establishment of the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, it was decided that a selection of poems by Utah women be made with a view of publishing them in a book eventually, and a committee was appointed to take up the work. In 1939, it was proposed that an anthology of poems by Utah women be prepared as a feature of the centennial celebration, and one year later, in 1940, it was definitely decided by the Board that an anthology of poems be published as a feature of the Relief Society centennial, to consist of prize poems designated in the annual Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, and of other. Poems selected from published writings of women of the Church, Sister 297 Annie Wells Cannon, former member of the General Board, has been authorized to prepare the anthology in cooperation with the General Board's committee on the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, and the work is well under way. We feel sure that the women of the Church will welcome such a volume. Beautification By way of follow-up work, we mention again the importance of the beautification program of the Church. Whata fine picture we will have when every family has made an - effort to improve its home and surroundings, and when every community in the Church has done its best to set up and maintain a standard of civic pride and beauty that will be an inspiration to every resident therein. "Secret Pal" Movement Questions have come to the General Board regarding the "secret pal" movement which has been adopted in a few of our local wards and branches. As was indicated in our blue bulletin of January 15, 1941, the General Board does not favor this movement within our organized units, and recommends its discontinuance. We call attention to an editorial in the for November, 1939, page 746, describing the activities of this nature and setting forth the attitude of the General Board relating to them; also, we call to your attention the following excerpt from President Joseph F. Smith's Gospel Doctrine, page 483, on this subject: "IT would like to say that it is expected of the Relief Society... That they will 298 have a watchcare over all its organizations ' among the women of Zion... And see toit that... Cabals are not formed, that secret combinations may not get a foothold." We wonder sometimes if our women need a little more attention from one another. Are we sociable enough? Are we hospitable enough? Does any woman come to Relief Society and go away without anyone speaking or talking to her? Registration of Graduate Nurses The General Board is pleased to cooperate with the Nursing Council on National Defense by requesting stake and mission Relief Society presidents in the United States to announce, through their local Societies, the plan of the Council to take an inventory of the nursing forces of the country in order that experience and qualifications of: all nurses will be available when selecting personnel in the event of an emergency. 'This inventory is being conducted by means of a schedule to be filled in by all registered nurses, irrespective of age, including those actively employed and those who are married or retired. It is believed that there may be many registered nurses not now employed in nursing work who might be available in a national emergency. Each state in the nation has its own registration bureau, and every graduate nurse should contact the bureau in her state and obtain a schedule to be filled in and returned to the bureau. In the blue bulletin of March 14, 1941, a list of addresses of registration bureaus was enclosed. Traffic Accidents We are wondering if Relief Society 

 

 women cannot be helpful in the country's effort to lessen traffic accidents, in which over 32,000 people were killed in America last year, and thousands of others were injured. A number of our fine young people have been killed or injured in automobile accidents during the last year. Many accidents are caused through carelessness, through nonobservance of traffic rules, and through reckless driving caused by drinking. People should refuse to ride with reckless drivers: or with drivers who have been drinking. Even a single drink makes a driver A campaign for safety in this direction seems most important. We believe Relief Society women can be powerful factors in creating public opinion in the interest of traffic safety, respecting both automobiles and pedestrians. Protection of Our Young People The Presiding Bishopric, in a recent issue of the "Progress of the Church" has called attention to the fact that many of our young people who leave home to secure employment, attend school, or to settle in other localities throughout the United States, often lose contact with the Church. They are thus deptived of the protection which the Church provides, and of the opportunity for participation in religious activity. 'The Church, on the other hand, is deprived of their cooperation and help. Next to the home, the Church feels a responsibility: for its young people, and feels that every effort should be made by its officers everywhere to keep in touch with them and to encourage them in Church activity. It is suggested by RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the Presiding Bishopric that parents and bishops combine their efforts in this respect to the end that none of our young people lack opportunity for Church affiliation, participation, and protection, no matter where they are located. Parents can be especially helpful by informing bishops and mission presidents of the presence of young people who have moved into their localities. The Relief Society, which has branches throughout the Church, is ever ready to give its help in this direction, and to seek out Church members, and extend to them the hospitality of the organization. Alcohol Education Pamphlets on the "Injurious Effects Resulting from the Moderate Use of Alcohol" (note the word "'moderate'"'), were recently mailed to the various stakes with the suggestion that they be distributed by the visiting teachers. When the supply was finally available for distribution, it was found that the number was not sufficient for distribution to every Latter-day Saint home. Accordingly, a reduced supply of pamphlets was mailed. If these pamphlets are later reprinted, you will be notified so that you may order additional copies, if desired. We hope that through these pamphlets, and other means, officers and teachers will be able to stimulate an interest in this subject, and bring about a realization of the bad results of even moderate drinking. Read and ponder over the article in the Magazine for April, by Dr. T. J. Howells, entitled, "A Doctor Challenges Alcohol." Let us make it our mission to develop sound and 299 proper public opinion relative to this matter. It has been said that public opinion, when united, organized, and aroused, is more powerful than armies. Conditions Adjacent to Military Camps I would like to call attention to the dangerous conditions which are developing around our military camps. 'The Chief of Staff of the United States Army in public appeal recently said: "Human nature being what it is, establishments for the purpose of selling liquor are becoming increasingly active in the communities adjacent to the camps, and in some communities there has been an influx of persons of questionable reputation. Here we have on the one side a sordid business for the accumulation of money, and on the other the interest of every parent in the United States who has a son in the Army, not to mention the responsibility of the War Department to develop an army of the highest quality. 'This situation must be brought under control before it grows serious. "It is in this field, in the communities in the vicinity of our troop concentrations, that the War Department urgently desires the assistance of every welfare organization in the country.' I am sure we feel that the best safeguards our boys can have against temptation, vice, or sin, are proper religious ideals, good standards, and good habits well established. These make the safest armor anyone can have in moments of weakness. In addition, however, it is well for them to have proper scientific and practical information regarding those things which are destructive to both body and soul. If our boys will adhere strictly to the standards of the Church and the teachings of the Gospel, and keep themselves intelli- 300 gently informed, they stand a very good chance of being safe from all evil. Relief Society womcn, we arc sure, will discuss these serious matters with their sons, these beloved boys who are being called into training, and will warn them of all dangers. We are sure also that they will cooperate with Church authorities in any suggestions, plans, or aid which might be recommended to help fortify our boys against these evils. The National Woman's Christian Temperance Union has _ recently established as its slogan, "Let us help to defend our defenders." To this end, it has "pledged its 

 

 cooperation and aid in the. Creation of a better environment and the establishment of more recreational facilities in the vicinity of military and naval posts." The following excerpt is quoted from a newspaper release originating at Pensacola, Florida, March 28, 1941: "Fifteen houses, their doors posted with signs announcing the prevalence of venereal diseases, were under quarantine here today as the Federal Government intensified its campaign to suppress prostitution near army and navy centers." This is a marvelous step forward in the defense and protection of our boys. Instructions At Presidents' Breakfast President Amy Brown Lyman Attendance Not a Prerequisite for Enrollment The idea seems to be prevalent that a woman cannot be enrolled as a member of Relief Society until she has attended meetings three times. The General Board does not have a ruling to this effect, and wishes it to be clearly understood that attendance at Relief Society meetings is not a prerequisite for enrollment as a member. The Relief Society Handbook, page 182, states that "It is not recommended that new members be enrolled until it is known: that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the organization." While it is desirable that all members of the Society attend meetings as regularly as possible, it is recognized that there are many women unable to attend meetings because of old age, illness, employment, or other reasons, who, nevertheless, wish to affiliate with the Society and who value membership therein.
Singing Mothers For Centennial Concert
Plans are being made for a large chorus of Singing Mothers, to be composed of small delegations from the various stakes and missions, to present an evening concert as a part of the general centennial observance in Salt Lake City in . There is no requirement that singers be sent for this occasion, but the General Board extends to each stake and mission an invitation to send a delegation of nine—preferably a balanced group of three first sopranos, three second sopranos, and three altos. (See also Music Department, page 329.) Although it will be possible for comparatively few of the numerous members of choruses of Singing Mothers to participate in the concert in Salt Lake, it is expected that choruses of Singing Mothers throughout the Church will be featured extensively in local observances of the Relief Society centennial in their respective wards, stakes, and missions.
 Binder
A substantial, well-made cover, into which single copies of the be inserted or removed at will, was displayed for the information of Relief Society workers, with the announcement that if the demand for such a binder warrants arrangements for a quantity order, single copies may be made available at cost, 75¢ postpaid. The capacity of the cover is twelve copies of the Magazine, and the title, " ," is stamped in gold. (Note: Because of the immediate favorable response, an order has since been placed with the manufacturer, and announcement will be made as soon as binders are available for distribution.)
Counselor Marcia K. Howells
Mormon Handicraft Shop
Counselor Howells compared the incident of 65 years ago, when a collection of handiwork by Mormon women, sent to the world's fair in Philadelphia, was returned unopened, with the present wide geographical distribution of Mormon handicraft through the medium of the Gift Shop. She commented on the concentration of skills from many lands, brought by converts to the Church, which, combined with American designs and crafts, lend great variety and interest to the stock of the Shop. Emphasis was given to the fact that many incomes are supplemented through the sale of products of home industry at the Shop, and that in some instances the entire family income is derived through this means. Growth during the past year was evident from the fact that there were more visitors at the Shop, more articles were received and sold, more individuals received incomes from this source, and more individuals, wards, and stakes subscribed for membership in the Shop.
Temple-Burial Clothing
Counselor Howells reviewed the history of the General Board's temple and burial clothing department, which was established about thirty years ago by direction of the General Authorities of the Church, for the purpose of properly preparing temple clothing. Because of reports that temple-burial clothing is sometimes improperly placed on bodies, that articles of clothing are not always made according to authorized patterns, and that the clothing is publicly exhibited in some establishments, Relief Society presidents are requested to give general supervision in their communities with respect to temple clothing which is either made or kept in stock locally, and with respect to the dressing of women in temple-burial clothing. The Relief Society stake board may appoint a responsible woman to see that clothing is properly made and placed before burial; Priesthood authorities will doubtless arrange for a like service with respect to placing temple-burial clothing for men. All stake and mission Relief Society presidents recently received a new supply of mimeographed instructions on "Suggestions for Making Temple Burial Clothing," and "Directions for Clothing the Dead Who Have Received Their Endowments."
Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
Sunshine Workers
The General Board recommends that no additional "sunshine workers" be appointed in ward and stake Relief Societies. Wherever such workers are now functioning, they need not be relieved of this assignment at once, but it is recommended that, as soon as opportunity arises, this work be gradually transferred to the visiting teachers, inasmuch as it seems to be a logical extension of their present assignment.
One Class Leader for Each Department
The General Board recommends that only one class leader be appointed for each of the Relief Society educational departments. It is felt that the handling of this assignment alone will not over-burden any class leader now that the educational year has been reduced to eight months. Wherever a class leader is unable to conduct her class, it is her responsibility to arrange for someone to carry forward her work during the class period.
Women Urged to Get Out of Debt
Counselor Sorensen urged the women to heed the admonition of the Authorities of the Church to get out of debt. At present it would appear that there will be a period of prosperity in connection with the defense program, and it was suggested that families rid themselves of the burden of debt during this period. Women can assist their husbands in this matter by a curtailment of their own wants and by a wiser expenditure of money.