Membership Department
Appreciation, Report, and Recommendations Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member
The splendid effort sustained for three consecutive years in the membership-building program is genuinely appreciated by the General Board, both for effort and accomplishment. Many have worked courageously against great odds. Much has been done and much more can be done. The growth in membership during the past three years is unparalleled by any similar period in the life of the organization. The greatest increase in any one year previous to 1938 was, in round numbers, 3,500 in 1921. The average yearly increase during the three years of the present membership campaign is above 5,000. We recognize for outstanding achievement in membership increase the following missions with 75 percent or more of their families represented by Relief Society members: Brazilian, Argentine, Samoan, Mexican, Tongan, New Zealand, Tahitian, and New England; and the following stakes: Juarez, Big Horn, Wayne, Snowflake, San Juan, Panguitch, Moapa, St. Joseph, and Deseret: We also recognize the following missions which have made the greatest increases from 1937 to 1940: Texas, Northwestern States, Mexican, New England, Western States, East-Central States, and Eastern States; and the following stakes: Seattle, Denver, Portland, Carbon, and Oakland. The percentage of increase in each instance is shown in the table on pages 318 to 320. (Representatives of these stakes and missions who were in attendance at conference were introduced individually at the evening reception, by Belle S. Spafford, of the membership committee, and their membership gains were announced. ) We are happy to greet the new workers who are with us for the first time. For their information, and by way of review for others of us, a brief statement about the present fouryear membership-building program may be appreciated. The term "membership-building" has a double connotation—(1) building the individual through opportunities which come with membership in Relief Society, and (2) building the organization through the added strength of new members. At the close of 1937, when Relief Society membership was approximately 75,000, a campaign was launched for a Church-wide increase of one-third, or 25,000 additional members, in 313 order to bring the enrollment to 100,000 by 1942, our centennial year —a goal consistent with the number of eligible women in the Church. One hundred thousand members by 1942 is only the numerical measure of our objective. We need to remind ourselves often that the real purpose in the membership campaign is to extend the benefits of Relief Society to more women; to gather in our Latter-day Saint women to enjoy the Gospel as it is expressed through Relief Society. Missionary work has been curtailed in many countries. Perhaps it is time to do more missionary work at home. Far too many are missing what our Church offers to its women. Women, especially in the first half of the past century, struggled hard to get recognition and privileges such as have been extended to us in this organization. They worked with great devotion to woman's cause, knowing all the time that not they, but those who followed, would enjoy the full fruits of their efforts. We can best show our gratitude for the woman's organization in our Church by making a real effort to bring it to others, so they too may share its benefits. General Board Recommendations For Membership Campaign The General Board makes the following recommendations for the remainder of the year 1941 in the interest of membership: (1) That an intensive membershipbuilding program be conducted during the remaining nine months of the year (1941) rather than during the limited period of three months (October 1 to December 31), as heretofore. (2) That a membership-building program be conducted during the summer with the assistance of visiting teachers, directed 314 by ward presidents and membership coordinators; that during the months of June, July, August and September, visiting teachers be given helpful membership instructions at the regular monthly work-andbusiness meeting when they report their regular visits. (3) That a membership department be conducted in connection with each union meeting held during the remainder of 

 

 1941. In view of the fact that most stakes will not hold union meetings during the month of May, it is recommended that a special stake meeting in the interest of membership efforts during the summer months be held in May. (4) That ward Relief Society conference programs for 1941 include some interesting phase of membership building. Membership Pictographs COLORFUL array of membership pictographs (blue lettering and characters on a cream_background, with the goal line in bright red) extended across the entire forty-foot rostrum in the Assembly Ilall throughout the first day of the conference, and was also displayed at the evening reception. This huge chart, rearranged and greatly reduced in size, is reproduced on pages 321 to 324, portraying the 1940 ratio of Relief Society members in relation to the number of Latter-day Saint families in each stake and mission. In fitting this reproduction to the pages of the Magazine, the actual figures relating to each stake and mission have been omitted, but appear in the form of a separate table on pages 317 to 320. Three large supplementary summary charts were also displayed. The entire exhibit, which was explained at the officers' meeting by the General Secretary-Treasurer, and at the membership department by Rae B. Barker, chairman, served to demonstrate and emphasize the individualized membership goal of each stake and mission, formerly considered in terms of a membership increase of one-third over 1937 by the end of 1941, and now designated as 60 percent of Latter-day Saint women in the respective stakes and missions. (See page 294.) Church-wide figures indicate that during the first three years of the four-year campaign to bring the membership to 100,000 by 1942— which means by the end of 1941— a gain of 21 percent representing 16,- ooo members has been made; that the present membership of 91,064 represents 51 percent of the approximate total of 177,000 women in the Church; and that there are more than 86,000 unenrolled women from which to draw the 9,000 additional women which must be enrolled this year in order to attain the centennial goal of 100,000 members. This means that, in general, 1 of every 10 unenrolled women must be enlisted. Each character in the charts represents 10 percent of all the women in the particular stake or mission to which it relates, based on number of Latter-day Saint families reported in their respective annual reports for 1940. The dark women represent the proportion of women in_ each stake who are now enrolled; the outlined characters represent the proportion of women in each stake who are not enrolled. The vertical RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE line running through each section indicates the 60 percent goal, emphasizing the fact that the new individualized goal puts all stakes and missions on an equal footing with respect to their possibilities. Those stakes and missions where the line of dark women marches right up to the goal line have reached the established quota; where the line of dark women extends beyond this line, the goal has been exceeded; those instances where the line of dark women has not reached the goal line indicate the stakes and missions on which the Society is depending for the total increase of 9,000 members to be gained during 1941. Because there are no compiled data showing the number of eligible women in the stakes and missions, the number has been estimated as being the same as the number of Latter-day Saint families, on the assumption that there is approximately one woman in each family who is eligible for membership in the Society. It is recognized that there are no women in a small _ proportion of the total families, but inasmuch as only 6 of every 10 families are required to be represented in order to reach the goal, it is believed that the margin of 4 of every 10 families is ample to allow for those homes in which there are no eligible women. This factor will also be offset somewhat by the fact that in some families there are two or more women eligible for membership. The possibility of enrolling women from at least 60 percent of the families has already been demontrated by a group of 66 stakes and missions, whereas only 38 stakes and missions have made increases of onethird or more since 1937. 315 A few examples will serve to more clearly explain the reason for shifting the basis for computing the membership quotas of the different stakes and missions. Seattle Stake, which has made the exceptionally fine record of an increase of 91 percent since 1937, nevertheless had only 35 percent of its eligible women enrolled by the end of 1940. Compare this situation with Wayne Stake, which has added so few members during the past three years that its rate of increase is only 6 percent. The reason for this small increase is at once evident when it is found that Wayne Stake actually has 81 percent of its women enrolled, that it evidently had 75 percent enrolled in 1937, and, therefore, that it is beyond the range of possibility for this stake to increase its membership by onethird, unless it were able to enroll a woman from every family in the stake and a few others as well. Even though Seattle Stake has nearly doubled its membership since 1937, there still remains a group of about 7oo unenrolled women in the stake from which it will strive to enroll the additional 263 members required in order to bring its ratio up to 60 percent. The final status of each stake at the end of 1941 will be computed on the number of Latterday Saint families in the stake at that time. This fact will be especially appreciated by those wards and stakes where the Church population has declined during the past three years through removal to newer residential sections, cutting into membership gains previously made and reducing the number of unenrolled women from which new members might be drawn. An example of the 316 effect of such a situation on Relief Society membership may be seen with respect to the Hawaiian Mission. Instead of an increase in membership during the past three years, this mission reports the loss of more than one-fourth of its members. This may have been due to removal from the mission, or to a more accurate report of membership. In either case, it would be unfair to expect this mission to increase one-third over a former larger enrollment. To do so would mean requiring this mission to enroll every Latter-day Saint woman in the mission and a considerable number of non-members of the Church as well. 'The inequality of requiring Seattle Stake to enroll only 1 of every 4 women, and requiring the Hawaiian Mission to enroll of every 4 women is readily apparent. It is noted, however, that despite its losses, the Hawaiian Mission has more than reached the goal of 60 percent. Chart 2 (reproduced on page 317 ) shows that 66 stakes and missions have already reached or exceeded the 60 percent goal, but there are still more than 15,000 unenrolled women in their midst from which they may continue to build even further. Some stakes, despite their best efforts, may be unable to reach the 60 percent mark, and, therefore, the enrollment of more than 60 percent of the women in some of the other stakes will help considerably in bringing the total membership to the grand total of 100,000 by the end of 

 

 this year. In the second group are 31 stakes and missions which closely approach but have not yet reached the goal; in order to do so they must, during 1941, enlist, on the average, 1 of every 8 unenrolled women in their localities. In the third group are 41 stakes where from 40 percent to 50 percent of the available women are enrolled; they should enroll on the average 1 of every 4 unenrolled women in their wards. 'The fourth group consists of 19 stakes and missions where only about one-third of the women are members of the Relief Society; they have a larger field in which to work and need to enlist at least 1 of every 3 women. Although there are only 4 stakes in the fifth group, with rates of from 20 to 30 percent, nevertheless, these 4 stakes, if they reach the 60 percent goal, will supply one-fourth of the additional 9,000 members needed, for in these 4 stakes alone there are 5,000 unenrolled women from which at least 2,300 additional women should be enrolled in order to bring this group up to the goal line; these stakes should work for 1 member from every 2 unenrolled women in their wards. Stakes and missions will designate as membership goals for their local Relief Societies 60 percent of the Latter-day Saint families on record in each respective ward and branch. *Editor's Note: Pictographs were planned by Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer, and prepared under her direction. CHART 2 IN WHICH GROUP ARE YOU °? FIND YOUR APPROXIMATE RATIO IN CHART 3 — YOUR EXACT FIGURES IN TABLE | PERCENT OF STAKES AND ¢ £ 100,000 BY 42 GROUP WOHEN MISSIONS Gee LED Tone iF EACH GROUP ENLISTS ENROLLED IN GROUP FROM ITS UNENROLLED WOMEN TABLE 1 RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS IN RELATION TO NUMBER OF LOS. FAMILIES 1940 Based on Data Reported by Stakes and Missions in 1940 Relief Society Annual Reports (Note: The data presented in this table are in support of Chart 2 (above) and Chart 3 (pages 321 to 324). Im preparing this table adjustments were made with respect to stakes and missions affected or created by division since 1937. Stakes and missions are listed in Table 1 according to rank, based on their respective percentages of Relief Society members to total women -- the number of L. D. S. Families being considered as the equivalent of total women. The approximate ratio of enrolled women, counting each character as 10 percent, is shown for each stake and mission in alphabetical order in Chart 3, which also shows the rank by means of which the exact figures for each stake and mission may be found readily in Table 1. The table also shows the numerical and percentage growth in membership from December 31, 1937, to December 31, 1940. Membership losses since 1937 are indicated by a minus sign preceding the figures in these same columns. The figures in the two right-hand columns -the number of additional members required to bring the stake or mission to the Relief Society membership goal of 60 percent of L. D. S. Families, and the number of unenrolled women from which they may be enlisted — will either increase or decrease as the number of L. D. S. Families changes, and therefore these figures, representative of the situation at the end of 1940, should be used only as a general guide with respect to quotas for 1941. The ratio of each stake and mission in relation to the 60 percent goal will be computed at the end of 1941 on the number of families reported at that time.)