General Session—Forenoon
Gaining Momentum For a Day of Triumph Rae B. Barker
Relief Society General Board Member
IMPORTANT issues seem naturally to crowd themselves to the front for consideration. For that reason our Relief Society centennial, with the membership-building program as an integral part of centennial preparation, is brought to the attention of all Relief Society members in this general session of the conference. In its centennial, Relief Society is preparing to commemorate an historic occasion, the importance, the significance and the far-reaching influence of which, we cannot fully appreciate. In the birth and substantial growth of this organization, we find verification of the statement that "there is nothing more persistent than an idea whose time has come." Approximately a century ago in this country, an idea was struggling for acceptance. It was the idea that women must advance to a position where they could be a more vital force for good in the world. That idea kept persistently pushing up through the thought strata of that time, much as volcanic eruptions inevitably break through where the earth's crust is thinnest. With a fundamental belief that their status could be improved, a few courageous and far-seeing women gathered others (and also some sympathetic men), and worked consistently for woman's advancement. There is ample evidence that the movement had divine approval. There could have been no more powerful instrument to implement its progress or to give life to that idea and to set it in motion than the inspired Relief Society program for women set forth by a prophet of God. In confirmation of this thought, President Amy Brown Lyman, in the Deseret News of March 15, 1941, said: "Relief Society women feel that the official recognition of the women of the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith was one of the most important movements inaugurated by him. It is remarkable and almost incomprehensible that in those dark days for women 100 years ago, he, above and in advance of all other men in public life, both saw the necessity for woman's individual expression and expansion, and gave her full opportunity in this Church to realize these through an organization. The only explanation must be that it was with a prophetic eye that he saw and comprehended the full importance of the mission of women, who are the mothers and first teachers of men." At the time of Relief Society's establishment, the Prophet Joseph said, "this Society shall rejoice." Truly there was then cause to rejoice; and now as we prepare to celebrate the hundredth birthday anniversary of the organization, there shall again be occasion for great rejoicing. We will prize highly the privilege of actively participating in the Relief Society centennial. It is a once-in-a-century event; therefore, it will be a unique experience for all of us. On that occasion, as we recount the accomplishments, the triumph of Relief Society's century of service, and remember that we are blessed to live in this day when the opportunities for women are unparalleled in all history, we will experience a crescendo of hallowed joy. In the observance of our centennial, which will be national and international in scope, we will honor the noble characters who fostered Relief Society, and we will review the colorful and significant achievements of the organization in all the communities, cities and towns. Their composite accomplishments tell the story of the progress of the parent organization. We hope to do more than this. From our vantage point at the close of the hundred-year period, we can begin to see in perspective the epic story of Relief Society. It will be our united purpose to show what this prophetic program for women has meant to a people and a time; and, further, through an evaluation of the past, to attempt to see more clearly our direction, our mission for the future. We could profitably think of our centennial observance as Relief Society's "commencement program." This organization, companion to the Priesthood, must meet its work for the future, whatever that work may be, armed with its greatest strength—the strength and stability which comes from a unified organization of all the women, the mothers of the Church. Then can we be the power for good that the Prophet foresaw. To the end that we attain the maximum strength possible within the century, a point of achievement which we have termed "Keystone Strength," the membership-building program was launched far enough in advance to reach our centennial goal of 100,000 members. With approximately 177,000 families in the Church, our aim does not seem an overzealous one. The degree of our success up to date is indicated by the following figures, which represent the membership growth. The enrollment in 1937 was 75,064; in 1938 there were 80,240 enrolled members; in 1939 the enrollment was 86,142; in 1940 it was 91,064. We have just one more year to interest 8,936 of our sisters in becoming Relief Society members. There are approximately 86,000 Latter-day Saint women unaffiliated with Relief Society. Each year's growth makes the next year's goal easier to achieve. The task decreases as the number of workers increases. The numerical strength of Relief Society in 1941 compared with the number enrolled at the close of 1842 is as that of a rushing river beside a rippling brook. As we grow in size, we gain momentum; we move faster and in a wider path. The accelerated growth of membership in the past three years is a sound basis for our optimism. The new members for a single year would comfortably fill the Tabernacle. Multiply that by three, and you can visualize what a vast congregation there would be if only these new members of the past three years were assembled. Surely, victory is in sight. At this point, however, the situation calls for sustained effort. There must be concerted effort from our president to the last member. It needs to be directed, well-organized effort. Most important—it must be individual effort. The president of the International Chamber of Commerce says, "Great movements which ultimately meet with success have one thing in common—the unity with which those identified with them tackle the job they have set for themselves." The women of Relief Society have many times demonstrated the sound truth of that statement. Because we so unitedly and so wholeheartedly take hold of every important assignment, because each one gives so freely of herself, we are confident that the centennial goal will be attained. We have confidence in the worthwhileness of Relief Society and its program. We have confidence that every woman who has actively experienced its worth will be satisfied only after she has made a sincere effort to give at least one other woman the same privilege she has had as a member. It is the time now to remember the epigram which reads, "On the sands of hesitation lie the bones of countless millions, who at the dawn of victory sat down to rest, and resting died." That will not be our story. Rather will we work with the spirit of our sisters who pioneered the work in 1842. Reading from those early minutes, we find this counsel: "put your shoulders to the wheel and work with your might. We will not work alone for we have entered this work in the name of the Lord. Let us go forth boldly." As we set out on our final year of a century's work, the General Board feels to say as did the report at the close of the first year of Relief Society in 1842: "More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipations predicted and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future." Our strength in numbers and in terms of total good given and of good received by many, many thousands of women since 1842 will set our centennial anniversary apart as a day of triumph.
The Strength of the Relief Society Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
NOT so long ago, I returned from a trip which took me a couple of days' journey down the coast, and there I saw the mushroom-like growth of camps, and young men out on the rolling hills in drill. I was uneasy and felt insecure and sad. My thoughts turned to my Heavenly Father, and I felt that surely that which we need sorely at this time is faith. We need to exercise our faith in a loving Father in order to fortify us to meet our experiences in these the last days. Immediately, I thought of this great organization to which I am so closely allied, and I felt comforted and grateful.