Yes, it is together we build. It is this often far-flung cooperation that makes possible the accomplishment of a great objective. This very worthy objective of yours, of 100,000 members at the time when your centennial celebration will be realized, will only be realized when men and women in far-distant places catch the vision of its accomplishment, and where small wards and branches throughout the length and breadth of the Church do their part. The man in the canyon helped build the temple. The women in far-off Canada, Mexico, or on the islands of the sea, will build the 100,000 membership. It is together we build.
LEADERSHIP is going to play an important role, and that is whom I feel I am talking to this morning—men and women who have responsibility and leadership, and I include men, for only together we build. No man has ever truly succeeded in life unless he has had somewhere in his life the inspiration and the helpfulness of a woman. It is only a selfish thought that a man has when he does what he can in his strength and influence for the blessing of an organization of women—he is helping himself most. To illustrate this point, let me draw upon an experience I had with boys in France. I remember one day, as the evening came on, standing on a hilltop in northern France with a group of French and American boys. We were overlooking an old city which had been partially destroyed in the first World War. As we stood looking over these tumbled-down sacred walls, an old French lamplighter, in his interesting cap and gown, came to the hilltop where he was to begin his evening's service of lighting the lamps down through the city. We Americans were struck by his interesting uniform and the methodical and patient way in which he went about his work. Here he lighted one lamp which was easy; another he found difficult to light, and he had to climb the post and clean out the lamp and work a bit with it before the light was made sure to burn through the night. And so, from one side of the street to the other, he went about his duty. He hadn't gone far until the group became interested in a new impression which they were receiving, for a highway was being lighted; it was taking definite form. Before long, we looked down into the city and up the hill beyond and saw the beautiful line of lights on each side of the street. His devotion to his work, his patience where lights did not burn easily, had been rewarded in the fact that as the night came on the highway had been made safe for the traveler.
One word of application, and we have it firmly fixed. As you go forward in this task, one sister will come easily; she is waiting right now for your invitation and your friendship. But there may be another one where the light does not burn, and you must work and pray, but, oh, the satisfaction you will have when you finally get this sister to accept your invitation! If you know of an unenrolled sister, give that sister some particular work to do, some