How wonderful that it is never too late to accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which was taught and demonstrated by Him personally and which has been restored in its fullness in these latter days!
We as Latter-day Saints believe—and many other people believe—that the gospel of the Master is the greatest source of spiritual strength known to man. It is a philosophy of unselfishness and brotherly love, gentleness and peace, faith and hope. If the Christian peoples of the world who are believers could live it, they would not only experience the greatest happiness, joy and satisfaction they have ever known, but they would be a blessing to their fellowmen. There would be no room in their hearts for envy, malice and animosity. They would not hate their neighbors, wish them ill, or seek to destroy them. The teachings of the Gospel are the exact opposite of the false, man-made doctrines and theories prevalent in many places today which engender selfishness, hate and ruthlessness; doctrines which hold that the great moral and religious teachings of the Bible are outmoded; that human personality and even life itself are no longer sacred and are only a means to an end; that might makes right.
Of the two commandments set forth by the Master as the greatest commandments, the first is the easier to live. It is not hard to love the Lord—the Giver of all good gifts and blessings—the Creator of Heaven and this beautiful earth; it is not hard to love Him with our hearts, soul and mind. But it is difficult to love our neighbors as we love ourselves. And, furthermore, it is difficult to do unto others as we would be done by, to return good for evil, to love our enemies; difficult to forgive; difficult not to judge. However, the nearer we can live according to these teachings, the greater the contribution we can make to society, and the nearer we will be to the goal to which all good Christians aspire.
WITH the belief that the greatest source of spiritual strength known to man is the Gospel of our Lord, we might list three great, major aims with respect to this belief: first, to study the Gospel diligently; second, to strive to obtain a testimony of it; third, to try to live it in its fullness. I believe the greatest motivation in stimulating men to righteous endeavor and living, comes from a testimony. A testimony is more than a collection of facts. It is a combination of knowledge, conviction, faith and inspiration. It is dynamic and forceful in character. I am persuaded that it is the greatest armor one can have as a protection against temptation, weakness and sin, and the greatest sustaining force in trials and tribulations. For a testimony righteous men have been burned at the stake. For his testimony our beloved Prophet went to his death. For His testimony our Lord and Master was nailed to the cross.
I should like to go back in our own history and point out instances in the lives of two women which show what they were able to meet and overcome because of their faith and convictions and their devotion to the Gospel of our Lord. These women to whom I refer were both members of the Nauvoo
 
Relief Society. They were Mary Fielding Smith, wife of the Patriarch, Hyrum Smith, and mother of the late President Joseph F. Smith; and M. Isabella Horne, one of the most prominent Relief Society officers of her day, who was treasurer of the old Central Board of Relief Society, and later of the General Board, serving in these capacities twenty-one years.
Mary Smith, in a letter to her brother, Joseph Fielding, who was then in England serving as one of the seven missionaries who introduced the Gospel there in 1837, wrote from Nauvoo, giving a word picture of the sacrifices and trials and faith typical of that day. Her letter, reproduced in an old copy of the Millennial Star, I found when I was in England; it is dated Commerce, June, 1839 (the city, later known as Nauvoo, was then only a few months old), and reads in part as follows:
"My very dear Brother: As the elders are expecting shortly to take their leave of us again to preach the Gospel in my native land, I feel as though I would not let the opportunity of writing you pass by unimproved....
"It is now so long since I wrote to you, and so many important things have transpired, and so great have been my afflictions, etc., that I know not where to begin; but I can say, hitherto has the Lord preserved me, and I am still living to praise Him, as I do this day. I have, to be sure, been called to drink deep of the bitter cup; but you know, my beloved brother, this makes the sweet the sweeter....
"You have, I suppose, heard of the imprisonment of my dear husband, with his brother Joseph, Elder Rigdon, and others, who were kept from us nearly six months; and I suppose no one felt the painful effects of their confinement more than myself. I was left in a way that called for the exercise of all the courage and grace I possessed. My husband was taken from me by an armed force, at a
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
time when I needed, in a particular manner, the kindest care and attention of such a friend, instead of which, the care of a large family was suddenly and unexpectedly left upon myself; And, in a few days after he left, my dear little Joseph F. was added to the number. Shortly after his birth I took a severe cold, which brought on chills and fever; this, together with the anxiety of mind I had to endure, threatened to bring me to the gates of death. I was at least four months entirely unable to take any care either of myself or child; but the Lord was merciful in so ordering things that my dear sister could be with me all the time. Her child was five months old when mine was born; so she had strength given her to nurse them both.
"You will also have heard of our being driven, as a people, from our homes in Missouri, and from the state.... This happened during my sickness, and I had to be removed more than 200 miles, chiefly on my bed. I suffered much on my journey; but in three or four weeks after we got to Illinois, I began to amend, and my health is now as good as ever it was. It is now little more than a month since the Lord, in His marvelous power, returned my dear husband, with the rest of the brethren, to their families, in tolerable health. We are now living in Commerce [Nauvoo], on the bank of the great Mississippi River. The situation is very pleasant; you would be much pleased to see it. How long we may be permitted to enjoy it I know not; but the Lord knows best what is best for us. I feel but little concerned about where I am if I can keep my mind staid upon God; for, you know in this there is perfect peace. I believe the Lord is overruling all things for our good....
"As to myself, I can truly say, that I would not give up the prospect of the Latter-day glory for all that glitters in this world. O! My dear brother, I must tell you, for your comfort, that my hope is full, and it is a glorious hope; and though I have been left, for near six months, in widowhood, in the time of great affliction, and was called to take, joyfully or otherwise, the spoiling of almost all our goods, in the absence of my husband, and all unlawfully, just for the Gospel's sake, (for the judge himself declared, that he was kept in prison for no other reason than because he was a friend to his brother), yet I do not feel the least discouraged: though my sister and I are here together in a strange land, we have been enabled to rejoice, in the midst of our privations and persecutions, that we were counted worthy to suffer these things.... If it had not been for my faith and hope, I should have sunk before this; but, blessed be the God and Rock of my salvation, here I am and am perfectly satisfied and happy, having not the smallest desire to go one step backward."*
Sister M. Isabella Horne, who crossed the plains in 1847, writes in her journal as follows: "After the martyrdom of our beloved Prophet and Patriarch, the saints were permitted to remain in Nauvoo until the temple was completed. Soon after this the people were driven from their homes in the middle of winter, during heavy snow storms and severe frost. I, with my family, crossed the Mississippi River in the month of February, 1846, and camped with the saints on Sugar Creek. After that the river froze over and other companies crossed on the ice. Early in the spring we commenced our weary journey through mud and storm to find a home among the savages in the Rocky Mountains. When we arrived at Council Bluffs a call was made upon President Young by the Government for five hundred of our able-bodied men to go to the Mexican war, which prevented us from continuing our journey and necessitated our going into Winter Quarters, where we were seriously afflicted with that dreadful disease—scurvy. In June, 1847, the saints were organized into companies to follow the pioneers, and I was with the first company that left Winter Quarters. The trials, hardships and privations that the people of God endured on that long and weary journey were great and can only be understood by those who experienced them.
"Children were born on the way before we reached Council Bluffs, I myself giving birth to a daughter at Pisgah. The company started forward on the third day after.
*Mary Fielding Smith, Millennial Star, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 40-42, (June, 1840).
"When our pilgrimage was over we found ourselves in a barren waste, inhabited by Indians [Utah]. But we were glad to find a resting place where we could worship God without fearing our enemies were coming upon us. The weather was favorable for building, and the brethren immediately began to saw logs and erect small log houses, into which many of us moved, without having either doors, windows, or floors.
"Here again there were many difficulties to overcome. The ground was full of snakes which used to crawl around and into our houses, but these were soon killed or frightened away. The timber was so full of bugs that it was years before they were entirely subdued. The mice also were very numerous, running over us by day and night, and destroying considerable clothing, etc., which caused inconvenience and trouble. We were also obliged to live on short rations, digging roots to add to our store, in order to make our supplies last until something could be raised for food. During that winter many of the Mormon Battalion arrived, and we were under the necessity of sharing our food with them. We could put a little grease into a dish with a rag in it to make a light, and parch
 
a little wheat to make a warm drink, but when it came to making soap we were put to our wits' end to get material to make enough to do our washing. I can hardly tell today how we did succeed. But the Lord opened our way and blessed us with cheerful, contented spirits and thankful hearts. "I well remember the first harvest home we celebrated. Apostles Parley P. Pratt and John Taylor called upon the sisters to prepare a feast. They prepared what food they could from their meagre store and set a long table in the Fort. Although the food was plain and everything was done in a humble way, our hearts flowed with thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father for the blessings conferred upon us. Our table decorations were sheaves of wheat and other things that had been: raised. Although the crops were light, we had enough to last us another year, and some to spare to our brethren and sisters that came the following year. "The second year of our being in the valley the crickets threatened to destroy our crops; men, women, and children had to fight them; many were driven into the ditches of water and were piled where there was any obstruction, bushels upon bushels. The Lord sent the gulls to devour them and thus we were saved from starvation."