When the Alien Needs a Friend
Once again a club woman has stepped from the ranks of altruism to a paid job in State government administration. Mrs. Lillian R. Sire, for many years president of the Society for the Aid of Mental Defectives, that supports a clinic at the Post Graduate Hospital under Dr. Max G. Schlapp, has been appointed Director of the Division of Aliens of the State Department of Labor.
Mrs. Sire is a glowing young person, who brings the same directness and clarity of vision to a real job which has been manifest in all her club relations. In federation conventions, when she takes the floor in a discussion, she has a voice that carries,


and English that expresses what she has to say in no uncertain manner.
"I feel that my twenty years of work among the troubled and less gifted of our fellow mortals has been preparing me for the work I have now undertaken," she said in an interview at Hotel Wellington, where she lives, "and although I only received my appointment on the day following New Year's, I am rapidly grasping its needs and the possibilities for service in my office. My work is that of adjusting the misunderstandings of the people who have come to our shores and who are victimized and misunderstood.
"Oftentimes these aliens cheat and victimize each other. So every day I hold informal court. It is my business to get both sides of the story. If the problem will possibly lend itself to adjustment, together we work it out. If one side is obdurate then it must go to the magistrate, and I am present at the hearing.
"It is a motherly kind of work that appeals to all women. My office is quite generally known among the aliens, and when even it is so simple a matter as a housemaid's unpaid wage, it soon straightens when the white light of justice and informal application of law become features of the situation.
"It is also an excellent opportunity for Americanization work in which I have for many years been actively interested. I have learned by experience the attitude of mind of our prospective citizens, and by means of an interpreter, it is not difficult for me to ferret out the false note when there is one, and to recognize sincerity.
"My course of law in the woman's law class of the New York University is also of greatest advantage, and it seems as if the experiences of my life have all led up to this present opportunity to serve as a citizen in this work as Director of the Divisions of Aliens of the State Department of Labor.
"All lodging houses for Aliens in this city, as well as in the State, come under my department and receive their licenses there. The rights and wrongs of the lodgers are subject to my office, and in that way the magistrate is saved much unnecessary labor."
Less than fifty years ago in the city of Boston, when the School Board consisted of twenty-four members, selected by wards, three women of high social and civic prominence were elected to serve on the School Board, but they could not serve because the law specified that men only were entitled to serve on the School Board. It required special legislation to confer that privilege.