hard 398. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work, of her hoarded savings! Divorce at twenty-eight! And all because she could not endure salt pork and beans, because she was not fashioned of sturdy, pioneering stock! She had always intended to return?for what else had she been so diligent and saving? She glanced stealthily at the woman who had taken her place, who had alienated John's affections, and a wave of shame and resentment surged through her that such a vulgar woman could replace Ruth Bennett, the cultured and refined, in the affections of any man. "A fine type from a fine state," she muttered bitterly. But what else could she expect, when John was willing to divorce her? Surely his refinement was gone; he had become a mere dolt. At the thought of the indignity John was thrusting upon her, Ruth's fine, inherent instincts rose in protest. She glanced again at her visitor. That young lady was engaged in trying the effect of Ruth's new spring wraps. Under cover of her preoccupation, Ruth transferred her wedding ring to her right hand. John should never guess the fulness of the wound he had inflicted. Pride should hide her hurt, she would play the game! She glanced gratefully at the contract upon her desk. For two more years, at least, work would prove the healing balm. How grateful she felt that 'she had not rejected it, as she had intended. She would work and succeed, and John should live to regret his decision. But even as she built an armor of achievement about her wounded pride, Ruth wondered if John had aged; if he had succeeded as he had dreamed; if he still lived in the tiny cabin. She wondered if he would continue to grease harnesses on long winter nights, while his new wife sat opposite him, patching the dusty grain sacks. She ought to feel grateful, rather than chagrined, to be 'spared such an existence. But cold, reasonable arguments were insufficient balm for the deep hurt; the words of John's letter seemed to dance grotesquely before her eyes; the odor of a bunch of violets upon her desk seemed strangely like that of frizzling bacon. Only the chiming of her desk clock recalled Ruth from her mental wanderings to a re-assertion of her self mastery. "T am delighted, Miss Madge," her voice carried the charming: tones which were so much her success, "to meet my brother's future wife. I may call you Madge, of course?" she added smilingly. "I shall make arrangement to devote a part of each day to your shopping needs, and together we will select a trousseau which, I hope, will satisfy you and Brother John, too. I am glad my brother is going to end his lonely ways." Ruth felt that lie was an achievement in self possession?surely she was mistress of her emotions. "T'm glad you're willin' that I should get married to John." Miss Paine's musical voice was incongruous with her uncultured JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE ? 399 speech. "I sure want you to help me buy a few things to make life more comfortable fur John. He's had a hard struggle out there. Some window curtain stuff and a table cloth or two, to make the place look homelike. He's had a terrible lonely time of it, with no wimen folks around. He's a good man, John is, and I aim to help him all I kin. I ain't got no patience with these here lap-dog wives, what's expectin' a man to do all, and gives nuthin' back. They're just millstones round a man's neck, and there's plenty of them things in our country, without wives - turnin' into 'em!" ] Ruth glanced quickly at Miss Paine, searching for the intent of her cutting thrust. Was the remark intentionally personal? But Madge's guileless face showed only wonderment, interest, and friendly concern. Ruth methodically set to work upon the purchase of Madge's trousseau. Madge produced a generous purse, and Ruth, as if seeking to heap coals of fire upon John's head, made inroads into her own savings. "I might as well," she argued with herself, "there is no motive to save for myself now." If material things could make Madge contented with the life which lay before her, she should have them a plenty. Many curious glances and suppressed smiles followed the incongruous pair on their daily shopping trip, for Ruth's immaculate toilet only served to make Madge's oddities of dress more noticeable. But a transformation was soon accomplished, for Ruth's first task had been the purchase of suitable clothes for her guest. In the choice of household fittings Madge seemed willing to ~ leave all selections to Ruth. The result was an array of fine linens, thin china, dainty curtains and good rugs which would have decried and overflowed the tiny cabin Ruth had known. Perhaps John would see the necessity of building a better house for the furniture which came with his bride, Ruth bitterly concluded. Forth from its corner she brought her own hope chest, filled with beautiful and expensive home things which she had collected from time to time, and which she had saved for the home she had visioned. With reckless abandon she transferred all the contents of the chest to a voluminous box destined, with others, for Buenna, Idaho. But in the selection of her personal outfit, Madge demurred and attempted to assert individual taste. "Silk stockins and white house dresses ain't in keepin' with our ways," she protested, as Ruth displayed her selections. '"Reckon you ain't nuver seen a dry-farm," she continued. "Sagebrush and sand, cedars and weeds is our nearest neighbors. We don't have no swamps nor frog ponds. John's life ain't easy like that o' farmers back here. He has to fight rabbits an' squirrels an' grasshoppers, an' wind. May as like I'll haul water and chase sheep through barbed fences. Better give me good, wearin' things, like ginghams an' khaki. I 400. ~RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nuver was much fur fancy fixings. Folks in our valley will think I'm puttin' on airs 'cause John Bennett's pick't me out,' she warned. Ruth paid no heed to her protestations. Secretly she was determined to see Madge have a trousseau which would astonish John, that would set a standard he would feel constrained to meet. Perhaps daintiness in his bride would stir his lethargic soul?set him again pulsing for the things of life. He had once loved the beautiful; he might yet be stirred from the groove of his own making. Perhaps he would yet come to feel discontent for his primitive environment. At least, reasoned Ruth, he would see that his rejected wife knew how to do things. So with reckless disregard for cost or practicability, Ruth filled a trunk with delicate, sheer garments more suited to a wealthy debutante than the wife of an Idaho dry-farmer. "You're going to have a real wedding, Madge," persisted Ruth, revealing a bridal veil and a georgette gown, "a real orange blossom wedding. You will be the first correctly gowned bride in your valley. Are they not beautiful?" Madge surveyed the dainty garments with lethargic interest. "They don't look to me as if they'd stand washin'," was her practical comment, "and they'd sure need it if I was to wear 'em to the court house, thirty miles off. Sand and wind would sure make that dress look sick." She laughed at the fancied picture. Ruth also determined Madge should have her fling at New York City. During her sojourn in the Idaho valley she had known women who spent their entire lives within its narrow confines; women who had never seen a city or purchased a yard of cloth over a counter. She took Madge to her own apartment, from where they journeyed every night in' search of diversion. She took her to the best amusements the city afforded, on boat excursions around Manhattan Island. She guided her through the Sunday crowds at Coney Island, watched her gaze, open-mouthed, at the canyon of skyscrapers on lower Broadway. She piloted her up the long flight in the Goddess of Liberty, took her to gaze at the masterpieces in the art museums. She managed to keep Madge in a constant rush and excitement, half for the purpose of sowing discontent in her mind, half to drown her own heartache, which daily grew more poignant. But she was determined upon one thing?Madge should taste city life to the full before returning to her martyr-like existence. And Madge was, to. All appearances, plastic to Ruth's wishes. She went where Ruth willed; dressed in the new clothes as she dictated, and maintained an attitude of wonderment at the new life opening before her. Uncomplainingly she tramped through the crowds, ate at the roof garden tables, gazed at the great crowds which filled the Hippodrome. Only at night, instead of dreaming JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE ~~... 401 of the thrilling sights, as Ruth supposed her to be doing, Madge lay awake, listening to Ruth's restless turnings. For, in the privacy of the friendly darkness, Ruth Bennett gave vent to her real feelings. She did not want John, her John, to marry this woman. Could he raise her to his level, or would he stoop to hers? Over and over, through sleepless hours, she studied her problem, striving to be fair, failing miserably. When the trousseau was completed and the last box had been shipped to Buenna's nearest railroad terminal, Ruth gave Madge what she supposed was the biggest surprise of her visit. She would test John's ability of self control, since he had seen fit to give her the supreme test. She would let him see the woman he had set aside. "Madge," she said with seeming innocence, "what would you think if I go back with you to Buenna to see you married? I haven't seen brother John for six years, and I need a rest, too. My contract provides for a vacation every year, and I have not used last year's. I'll go with you, and we'll surprise John. I can be of so much assistance to you in your wedding preparations, besides," she continued lightly, "I fear if I am not there to make you wear it, you'll forget all about that beautiful veil and gown. We won't write John a word about my coming, I'll just be there, when he comes to meet you. Won't he be surprised?" A fleeting look of triumph, of cunning intent, passed over Madge's face, then it relaxed into the expression of wonderment which she had constantly worn. "Do you aim to go back to Buenna with me?" she said incredulously. "Back there where there ain't no electric lights, or fancy eatin' houses, or paved streets? Back there where the dust crawls over your slipper tops and the wind burns you browner "ana berry? Back to Buenna people drink water from barrels," she added. "Do you really mean to go with me, just to see me and John get married?" "I guess if you and John can endure it for the rest of your lives, I ought to be able to survive it for a week or two," Ruth's reply carried a forced laugh. "Perhaps the change will do me good. I feel dreadfully run down, anyway." "You sure do think a lot of John," was Madge's only comment. "Buyin' all them things fur him an' me, 'stead of puttin' 'em into a house fur yourself.. No wonder he was always talkin' about you. I ain't surprised now that he kep' your picture where he could see it?in his watch. You sure are some sister, 'an I'll be proud to show you to my folks. They'll be proud to meet you, Miss Bennett, and they'll sure treat you right." 'But Ruth Bennett was not thinking of the reception she would receive from Madge's folks. She was not thinking of the attractive Faster window which had brought so much praise to her department. She had even forgotten her contract, which still remained. 402. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE unsigned. She was mentally picturing the varied emotions which would flood John Bennett's unshaven, sunburned face when his divorced wife and his bride-to-be should both step from the train. CHAPTER TWO A few days later the two women began the return journey to Buenna. Ruth distinctly remembered all the landmarks of the journey as she had made it with John, seven years before. The rolling hills with their background of rugged mountains looked familiar. The narrow gauge railroad, with its puffing engine and swaying cars was still there. But Ruth looked in vain for coyotes and rabbits and other wild life she remembered. Instead, she gazed at fallowed fields, at new homesteaders' houses, at tractors, winding around wide clearings. Pungent odors of fresh turned earth blended with the odor of cinders; and ever before them like a bright green carpet, stretched broad fields of fall grain. Even at the terminal further surprises awaited her. There was no lonely, forlorn mail stage, which she so well remembered as the vehicle in which she and John had journeyed to their claim. Instead, several autos stood about, while their owners formed little groups as they waited for the train. 'As the engine heaved and steamed, two men hurried forward ?two men who were neither unshaven nor uncouth, whose conventional dress would have passed unnoticed on a city street. Sunburned and rugged they were, to be sure, but what a wonderful, healthy, vigorous color it was! Ruth felt a hot, stinging flush as John Bennett strode toward her, and not toward Madge. Here was this man whom she had judged as degenerating and plebian. Here was no failure, no dolt, but a man, confident, assured, bearing the stamp of successful achievement in every movement. Her confused emotions simmered to surprise as John, after a perfunctory greeting to Madge, turned his attention solely to his supposed sister; while his companion, upon reaching Madge, took her bodily in one strong arm and swung her clear from the platform. There had been no exchange of lovers' glances, no diffidence on the part of either one. "Ruth!" cried John Bennett, seizing both her hands in a grip which hurt, "how good it is to see you again! How glad I am! What. A surprise?I never dreamed you were brave enough to weather our frontier country. Madge gave us no hint of your coming, but we all of us?Madge, her brother and I, welcome you to our valley, my sister!" "Oh, yes, this is my brother Ernest, and this is John's sister Ruth," Siiaditeed Madge as soon as she had regained her breath and equilibrium. "You'll have to excuse his makin' a fuss over me, Ruth. Him and me thinks quite a bit of each other, same as JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE ~2" 403 you and John does. That's the way I like to see families," she added, as if anxious to explain Ernest's demonstrations satisfactorily. "I don't aim to let even a husband come between me and Ernest." "You'd better not," replied Ernest testily. And, as if to prove his point further, he lifted Madge into the front seat of the car, climbed into the driver's seat and beckoned the others to follow. "Come on," he called, his good nature seemingly restored,. "no need to bicker about which bus to take. They all lead to the same hotel." Ruth, sitting beside John in the rear seat, became self conscious and ill at ease. She felt an undercurrent of emotion which she could not understand. Everything was so different! John had not manifested the emotions of chagrin which she had expected; he was not the uncouth failure she had visioned. He did. Not seem depressed or poor, and instead of being embarrassed at her presence, he was openly elated. Ruth could not understand his marriage with Madge?was it to be compensation for some service rendered? Was he marrying to get a cook? He certainly was not the buoyant, eager lover Madge had a right to expect. And yet, all the way, he praised her and her achievement. Undoubtedly there existed some unexplained circumstances, some peculiar conditions to be cleared up before the atmosphere would be marital and festive. During the entire trip John, as if anxious to dispel Ruth's evident embarrassment, talked continuously, calling her attention to points of interest enroute. "We're a lot more settled out here than people think," he said, "dry-farmers everywhere now. Hardly a bit of range left. Lucky thing for me that I filed on an additional homestead and bought a piece or two from disgruntled settlers. Now I've got enough land to farm it right. That's a tractor way over there, Ruth?they're the only thing in this country?beat the old plow horse all to pieces. They pull your cedar trees, plow your land and run your threshing machines. Regular all-round servants. I'm sure glad Madge insisted on my getting one?it's going to pay for itself this year alone. She's got foresight, that girl has, Ruth, if I do say it. That's my section line over at the far end of that stubble," he continued. "That bunch of cedars away up there hides the house where we are going to live. Madge thought it would be a pretty place to build, and, of course, I agreed with her. That long black line is fresh plowed ground, and that patch turning green is fall rye," he explained at great length, choosing to pretend Ruth had never seen a plowed field. "Not so fast Ernest, please," he bantered boyishly, "I want my sister to see all my broad acres." But Ruth did not heed his light repartee. More beautiful than any window display she had ever made, the wide valley lay 404 . RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE before them. Smooth as a carpet, the pale green fields of grain stretched far away, blending with the purple gray of yet unconquered sage. The black squares of fresh earth, with the occasional blocks of yellow stubble gave the whole valley the appearance of a huge checkerboard. And John had a new house, built purposely for his new bride! How Ruth remembered that grove of cedars in which he had built! How she had hated them during the long winter she had spent in the tiny, snowbound cabin. They had seemed so calm and peaceful, despite the heavy snows which weighted their branches. They had been a haven to the cedar birds that had so irritated her with their cawing. How prosperous the whole valley seemed?how different from the waste stretches she had known. It no longer seemed desolate and silent, but fresh and inviting?nature seemed to be calling from every clod, but not to her. She had not toiled for the fruits which were now abundant, and the harvest was entirely for another. As Ernest drove leisurely toward the clump of cedars, Ruth noted new sheds, new barns, a huge silo, and a large windmill whirling merrily. Signs of prosperity were on every hand. John never told her of these improvements. And the house! Ruth had never dreamed such a structure possible out here. Logs and shingles artistically blended, with a cobble fire-place. Cedar trees all around, window boxes of house plants, neat paths, sodded grass. No cluttered yard, no unsightly tin cans, no inquisitive drove of hogs or loose chickens. A veritable home, built for and planned by this Madge, whom John seemed unable to praise enough. And within the house the same air of peace and refinement prevailed. There was no lurking odor or rancid bacon, no hint of harness oil or dusty grain sacks. There was no evidence of smoky oil lamps or make-shift furniture. The atmosphere was like that of the city that Ruth had left. The kitchen had a sink with running water; the dining table was set with the thin china she had selected?the chairs looked inviting?one of the good rugs was in place. In every detail it was a home, built for the sole purpose of comfort and happiness. "Put on another plate for sister Ruth,' called John genially as they entered. "I like your taste in dishes ened furniture, Madge," he continued as she capably prepared the meal. "This is going to be some house. Just as soon as Madge can get the curtains made you couldn't tell it from a city flat. Now honest, eh, Ruth? You must stay a long time with us, sister, and come often again. You look tired out, but Madge is a regular cook, so you'll pick up in no time. You must be sure to taste the fried rabbit she canned last winter, after our big hunt. Couldn't tell it from chicken if you didn't know about it." Ruth never knew how she got through that meal. Ernest Paine was preoccupied and spoke only in monosyllables. It seemed JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE 405 to take all of Madge's time to wait upon the table and John had no topic of conversation save praise for Madge's accomplishments. Madge was foremost in all his plans, all his hopes. She had planned the house?she had designed the cobble chimney?she had planted the lawn?she had selected the wall paper. In short she seemed, to John, an almost omnipotent personage. Choking down a little of the much praised food, Ruth pleaded fatigue and asked to be excused. Whereupon John immediately showed her to a daintily furnished room which, he explained, Madge had designed for her very own, but which should belong to Ruth so long as she cared to stay. There it was again?praise for Madge! - Was the very air she breathed supplied by that wonderful woman? Evidently she dominated the entire life of the ranch?perhaps she had actually done the courting. Was John marrying her because she was capable and strong and acclimated? Without so much as a glance at the room and its trimmings, Ruth flung herself upon the bed, heartsick and lonely. She keenly realized that she was reaping only the fruit of her own sowing. She had voluntarily withdrawn herself from the life of the valley?how could she expect the valley to include her now? She knew she was responsible for John's altered affections. She had played the lap dog wife, made no sacrifices, no self-denial. She had failed to do her part, for she had literally run away when the real struggle began. All that John had achieved had been done without encouragement or aid from his wife. No wonder he had sought release, and solace from another. She was finally roused from her self denunciation by the sound of subdued voices near the open window. John? Was he exercising the lover's right, indulging in the lover's embrace, he had denied himself in Ruth's presence. Ruth did not intend to eavesdrop, but there was no retreat and the voices floated in, while the early twilight concealed the identity of the speakers.
"Give me back my wedding ring," said a woman's voice, musical and happy. "I've been lost without it ever since I left. I'll never take it off again, never, never! Give it to me, please, I feel sort of divorced without it."
"Not until you kiss me forty times," answered a man's voice, low but dominant. "After three weeks' absence, seems to me I'm entitled to some show of wifely affection. Here I've been around you for about six hours and haven't dared to even kiss you for fear of spoiling the play. Never been so lonesome in all my life! Can't understand how John's ever managed to stick it out so long. If you hadn't come on that train, I was prepared to go and get you. If we were ever indebted to John Bennett, and I know of course we were?he's pulled us through many a bad pinch?you've more than turned the tables. The very idea of borrowing a man's wife, and my wife at that, for three long weeks, just to bring a pride-bound woman to her senses!"
"But it was worth it, dear, and so necessary, too," the woman's voice was tender, her speech free from all colloquial expressions. "Think what her coming means to him?to them both. And she has come as he determined she should?voluntarily."
"Humph!" the man's voice was charged with disgust for all things feminine. "He's been too easy and tolerant. He should have played the cave man. If a woman couldn't share my privations, I can't figure out why she should get in on the flush of things. She's ducked all the hard part?his path is easy sailing now. She ought to be willing to come back."
"Ernest!" the voice was half protesting, half laughing. "Please stop mussing my hair. And you're mistaken when you say he has had all the hard part, and all the loneliness. You should have seen her as I first did, cooped up in a tiny glass office, without even a view of the horrid paved streets. She was unhappy. Her eyes told me so. When she read that ridiculous letter about divorce, I thought she was going to faint. I guess she had to suffer some, to make her feel how much she really cared."
There was a moment's lull, a smothered protest, a subdued laugh and the narrator continued: "The way she dragged me around New York City, and the ridiculous things she purchased for my trousseau. I couldn't stop her. My feet are covered with blisters?I am sick for sleep, and my poor stomach is on a revolt. She thought John would send for her, while he thought she ought to come because she left of her own free choice."
"I should say as much!" the voice of Ernest Paine rose emphatic, in defense of all wifeless husbands. "If you acted?"
Ruth Bennett, half credulous, half dazed, became fully conscious of her eavesdropping. She rose suddenly and slammed the window down recklessly. How stupidly credulous and gullible she had been. How she had played into their game, just as they wished her to do! John wasn't engaged to Madge?she could have screamed her relief. Ernest Paine was no brother to Madge. She began frantically delving into her handbag, just as Madge had done in the old office back in the New York office. Finding what she sought, she opened the door noiselessly and tiptoed into the dining room.
The table was uncleared, the chairs were pushed about. A large leather rocker, in keeping with the furnishings of the house, had been drawn up to the dying fire, and John rested in its depths. A look of sorrowful patience marked his relaxed features. Ruth noticed little patches of gray about his trimly cut hair.
"Brother John,' Ruth tried to appear calm, but her voice