JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE 407
shook over her recent discovery, "do you happen to have a copy of the Idaho laws, relative to divorce? Naturally, I have a desire to read that which concerns me?us?so vitally."
John Bennett jumped up with alacrity. "To hang with the statutes!" he cried with a happy, boyish grin. "It isn't true there are no divorce proceedings. Ernest and Madge have gone to their own home by now. There wasn't a single word of that letter true. I suppose it was dreadful, writing my name to a deliberate falsehood, but I was getting desperate. Besides it was for our mutual benefit. I wanted you, and Madge seemed to have enough sense to know that this sort of scheme would rouse you to the coming back point. It was her plan, and I let her figure it all out."
"Do you mean that Madge doesn't need the wedding veil?" stammered the confused, bewildered Ruth.
"She doesn't need anything. She's got a fine husband, a good home. She reasoned that if she masqueraded as an ignorant, lethargic girl, with no ambitions or aspirations, it would stir you to make a fight for your happiness. If for nothing else, to save me from her. She knew if she didn't pretend she was stupid and dull, you'd be apt to accept what looked inevitable, and not come at all."
"Are we still married? Isn't this her house?" stammered the poised Ruth.
"I was beginning to wonder if you would ever come out of that room," answered John Bennett. "The Paines are refined people, seeking relief from an unnatural, citified life, just as I sought it. And they are making good. I've tried to help them over rough places, and they, in turn, have tried to make me less lonely. Because she is a real friend and neighbor, Madge Paine went to all that trouble, just to get you here. I wanted you, wife Ruth."
"You never said so, John," Ruth was all humility. "If you had only hinted, I would have come, long ago. I wanted to come."
"I couldn't ask you to return," John faced his wife with a look that was almost stern, "because I never sent you away. You left because you wanted to, you had to return the same way. But you don't know how I have wanted you?how lonesome it can get, even in God's great out-of-doors. You don't realize the hundreds of lonesome nights I've thought of you, what you were doing, wondering when you would feel the call to return."
"People can get lonesome, even in New York City, John," Ruth answered softly, stepping to the grate and dropping the torn fragments of her contract over the embers. "Thank God for that!" muttered John Bennett huskily. He took a step nearer, held out his arms; big, strong, hungry arms, to his wife Ruth.