In a time of Flood Crocheting is good to calm the nerves while waiting. I crocheted a pair of bootees waiting for my bishop husband to come home the Saturday evening of February 10, 1962. I felt too cozy in our warm, comfortable home two miles south of Bancroft, Idaho, for I knew only too well what was taking place in the village. People were sandbagging and shoveling and hoping that the temperature would drop and freeze the water. It didn't. Instead, the warm rain, pattering gently, encouraged more thawing and more rising water. If it continued, and it looked as if it would, the town would turn into a huge lake. Bancroft lies midway between Soda Springs and Lava Hot Springs on Highway 30N. It is the outgrowth of a water station built by the railroad on Squaw Creek in 1882. Bancroft was named after the first vice-president and general manager of the Oregon Shortline. Had the city of Bancroft been planned, perhaps they would have located it on a hill, or at least on a rise. Instead, it mushroomed around the railroad water stop in the lowest part of the valley. Bancroft is centrally located in a valley about the size of the Great Salt Lake Valley. Gti: nen is good to The village population is five hundred and varies very little from year to year. Bancroft is truly the center of the wheatfields surrounding it, Page 476 (Bancroft, Idaho) and reaching skyscraperward, are three grain elevators within its city limits. Spring runoffs are common in the village. Whenever the ground is frozen and does not absorb the moisture in the winter wheatfields, a runoff takes place. In the past years a few basements have had some water, and one street often turns into a river of goodly proportions. But never before had all the homes and businesses been threatened, never until the evening of February 10. When Bishop Yost came home, he said, "I believe it's holding its own. Wish the temperature would drop." He ate, slept the sleep of the exhausted for one hour, and went back to town for the night, this time wearing hip boots. Brother Christensen, on the eighth of February had stated, as he visited at the post office, "We're going to have a runoff this year worse than any we've ever had." The Christensens have a_ lovely home. They are always doing something on a do-it-yourself basis. 'They had been wanting to excavate and build another room in their basement, but time had not yet permitted it. When the rain started, encouraging the thaw, the Christensens diked as much as the frozen ground would allow. They even dug up some choice lawn sod to use for diking; but more dirt was needed, much THE FLOOD IN BANCROFT, IDAHO Looking east, with the north direction at the left, and the south direction at the right. Photograph taken before the maximum water level. The ward chapel, built ten years ago, may be seen in the right background, with the schoolhouse just in front of it; one of the grain elevators may be seen in the left background; the building at the left center, surrounded by evergreens, is the ci ty hall. High. Way 30N skirts the picture on the north, and the railroad track is just north of the highway. More dirt. They started digging that room in the basement. There were plenty of gunny sacks available at the mill. But the mill was five blocks downstream from the Christensens and definitely unavailable. Sister Christensen started sewing bags. She used old sheets, old curtains, flour sacks, anything. Brother Christensen and their Eagle Scout son carried those filled sacks from the basement out to the rising water. The two younger children filled bags, which Mother kept sewing. Tired and exhausted, they worked almost the clock around. This family won the battle. The water stayed away from their door. Three blocks west, and one block south from the Christensens, live the Mickelsens. 'Three returned missionary sons turned to Sister Mickelsen and said: "Mother, there's no use in the captain going down with the ship. We're taking you out while you can get out." They made a chair for their mother in their arms, and carried her through the waist-high water to safety. 'Then the sons went back to Page 477 478 their home, carried the furniture upstairs, and pulled up the carpeting. When finished, they went to help their neighbors. Sister Shamberg, a pretty young widow with a scout son and a smaller daughter, lives in a neat little white frame house with blue trim. 'Those who pass on Highway 30 notice the Shamberg home because of its tidiness. The house was built flush with the ground, and when the water started rising the evening of February 10, Sister Shamberg knew she had trouble. Others had the same trouble. She didn't ask for help. She and her scout son diked and diked. They even used a mattress to block off the water. 'They put up a battle, and it looked as if they were winning, keeping the water away from their home. Then — swish! Swish! 'The floor boards gave way, and in one sudden rush the water filled the rooms to a two-foot level. Sister Shamberg and the children stayed on, stacked their furniture as best they could, and when the men came for them in a boat, they evacuated their home. So it was that 103 homes and twenty-eight business houses had a flood of water. Fortunate were the few homes built high from the sidewalk, or in a slightly higher part of town, which had no trouble.. The families felt fortunate who could say: "It only came in our basement." Many saw water covering their carpets and climbing their pianos. For a period of almost a week, the village, which is so used to trains passing at all hours, and so used to highway trucks barrelling through, was completely isolated. When the Red Cross executive helicoptered in, he was amazed at the fine organiza tion. He said: "Usually we have to evacuate people, set up refugee shelters, and form bread lines. You have done all this. How did you organize so well?" 7E, had the finest organization working on the earth — the Priesthood! Families in the village had gone to families on the farms. Many more homes than were needed had been offered. For the duration of the flood, and the rehabilitation, the village board and the principal of the school, worked hand in glove with the Church leaders, for the benefit of all. No one thought of pay, all worked willingly and well. Sharon Stanger and her two little girls, Sherry Lynn and Stacy, came home with Bishop Yost Sunday evening. 'Their father Lynn stayed in town to help out as needed, coming out almost every evening to visit with his family. The young Stangers made their home in a lovely trailer house. Had they realized soon enough what was going to happen waterwise, they would have moved the mobile home to high ground. Luckily, their home floated much as Noah's ark, and had little damage. However, it was six days before the water subsided to the point where they could go home. Monday morning Marjorie and Phil Ingersoll, with their two little children, age three, and fourteen months, came to be our guests. The Ingersolls were entertaining a teenage group after the ball game, Saturday evening, February 10. Brother Ingersoll is a salesman for high school yearbooks and supplies. He had box after box of class rings, yearbook supplies and samples in his basement. While the party was on, IN A TIME OF FLOOD the water rushed into the basement. The boys forgot their clothes as they waded in water, forming a rescue team up the stairway, and saved several hundred dollars worth of supplies. "It was a blessing we had that party, and had some help," the Ingersolls said. "We could never have done it alone." Sunday morning the water rose in the Ingersoll home to the point where they moved upstairs. Monday, the furnace ceased to work. Brother Ingersoll hailed a passing boat and took his wife and children to the school evacuation center. As I watched them come to our door, the words of my husband's patriarchal blessing came to mind: "You shall never be in want for the necessities of life, shall accumulate enough of the world's goods to provide for your family and those who come to your door seeking assistance." I welcomed them warmly. It was a good week, one which I shall never forget. We had plenty of room for all, and one bed left over. We had our supplies of food on hand as the Church had suggested, and we managed nicely. JHEN the Red Cross executive helicoptered into town, Bishop Yost invited him to stay at our home, as there was no hotel or motel available in Bancroft, due to the flood. As the day progressed we women wondered what he would be like. We decided to wait and see. If he were older, and distinguished, or a bit sophisticated, he could have the master bedroom. If he were young and friendly, he could have the bed upstairs. He never came. Someone gave him a jeep ride to Soda Springs. Tuesday, I felt it would do Marjorie, Sharon, and myself good to get away from the house and the children for a time. I suggested a sight-seeing tour of Bancroft. My teenage boys, who were having a six-day vacation from school, not only volunteered to tend the four little children, but offered us their car to go in. We took off, each in a pair of snow boots, and one pair of knee boots between us. We were able to drive as far as the schoolhouse. 'The day before, the school had been accessible only by boat. 'The streets resembled those of Venice, but no gondolas were available for sight-seeing. We walked two or three blocks skirting the water and inquired of all we met, "How are you getting along?" 'The Stanger and Ingersoll homes were not accessible. I especially wanted to check personally on Grandma Yost's home. Our parents were in Arizona for the winter. We walked two blocks west and inspected it. The basement was dry as a bone. Sister Ingersoll, a music major from the Brigham Young University, sat down at Grandma Yost's little organ and played, while Sharon and I sang along. Three homes belonging to elderly couples who were wintering in Arizona were untouched by the flood waters. Some might call it coincidence. We felt it was a blessing. Some of the loveliest homes in the town were hurt the most. One modern, rambling-type brick home had one wall caved in. We watched for awhile as men were pumping out the basement, and cleaning so that they could put up two-by-fours to hold the wall and the roof from caving in. Seeing such devastation to 480 homes of those we knew and loved was saddening indeed. VV EDNESDAY was Valentine Day. The little children felt disappointed that they had to miss school on such a wonderful day. Marjorie and Sharon and I wondered if the men in our lives would remember us with a gift. We certainly didn't expect a thing with our men working so hard at this rehabilitation work. I made cherry pies, and we used the last of the ice cream on hand for pie a la mode. After supper, we sat around visiting and joking, but mostly listening to how the work was progressing in town. 'That was the evening we toured the White House with Mrs. Kennedy by way of television. Yes, sweethearts were remembered with gifts, and my boys presented me with a huge, heart-shaped box of candy. M ONDAY evening the stake president and his first counselor came from Soda Springs to see Bancroft's bishop. 'They had had to come in a truck through high water. When we went to the door to welcome them, they insisted on taking off their hip boots in the utility room. When they entered our big kitchen, our threefold family was sitting eating supper at the big table. The little ones who had eaten earlier, were playing in the living room. 'The quietest and most secluded place in the house was the master bedroom. As those three men sat on the pink chenille bedspread, in work-worn clothes, I wondered if ever before a_ stake presidency and bishop's meeting had been held in just such a setting. President Dredge stated that the entire Church Welfare Program was behind our ward. Bancroft members who had always been on the giving side of the Welfare Program since its inception in 1936, saw the wheat they had given through the years come back in all sorts of necessary supplies at this time. The quotation "Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days," was literally being fulfilled. It was probably Tuesday evening when Bishop Allen of the Soda Springs Second Ward called. He and Bishop Yost are as close as brothers as they had served together in the Idaho Stake presidency. Their conversation went something like this: "Got any water down there?" "It's a little swampy." "Our Relief Society will be down tomorrow to serve dinner to the work crew." "That isn't necessary, Bishop Roland, we're getting along just fine." "T didn't ask you, Bishop Glenn, I'm telling you." The Relief Society came. Dinner was served in the school lunch room. It was not easy to bring food through high water and women to prepare it. The First Ward Relief Society prepared dinner also. 'Then, with the same helpful compassion, the Ladies Aid of the Soda Springs Presbyterian Church served dinner one day also. Those hot meals at noontime for six days were very much appreciated. Some of those days the work crews numbered 200. Some of the men had no homes to go to, some had come a long way to help. It would be ungrateful not to mention also the fine work the Red Cross did for the community. The three Red Cross workers who were IN A TIME OF FLOOD there were given the Latter-day Saint stake office and all the classrooms they needed for their work. They said never had they had such nice office rooms. Often they worked in tents. OUNTED among our blessings was the fact that our beautiful Latter-day Saint chapel, built and dedicated just ten years ago, was not damaged. Not even one single drop of water came in. Also, the school was unharmed, though a little water was pumped from the basement of the school. Sister Ingersoll's father came from Boise for her and the children the following Monday. 'They had been with us a week, and we knew that because of the experience we would be lifelong friends. Her note from Boise reads in part: "We certainly do appreciate ALL you did for us — it's hard to name it all, but the list goes like this: food, beds, friendship, work, comfort, patience, and on and on and on." SUNDAY the 18th, the men TM ceased from their labors and most of the Bancroft Ward members met in sacrament meeting at two P. M. It was easier to get around in the middle part of the day, for there was still much water. 'Testimonies were borne, and blessings expressed. The town's people had been evacuated, a major cleanup job had taken place, with no drownings, no electrocutions, no accidents. In fact, our population increased by two members, two baby girls were born at 481 the Caribou County Hospital in Soda Springs on Valentine Day. Our dear ward Relief Society president, Sister Ramona McLain, is a young and willing, lovely former schoolteacher. She had served as president about six months. She was truly a wonderful mother of the ward. Her own home _ housed twenty-three extra people the night of the worst flooding, though she, with the others, had to evacuate the following day. With president, counselors, and secretary, the Relief Society operated a welfare store in the foyer of the chapel. Folks did not flock in for supplies. Bancroft folks are proud and independent. Their bishop went to the homes and invited them to come and see what supplies they needed. Especially were the juices welcomed, as water was felt to be unfit for consumption. As soon as the local stores were able to open for business, folks went back to the regular channel for their groceries. As the men finished pumping out the basements, and the heavy cleanup jobs were finished, the Relief Society moved in with an organized cleanup brigade. The many donated hours spent would be hard even to tabulate. One day the Primary officers and teachers spent the day cleaning the theater. It was found that folks enjoy working, as well as visiting at a quilting. The Flood of Sixty-two will long be a conversation piece in our area, but not with long faces, for we know from experience that many blessings and friendships come from such times of disaster!