Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 1 Shirley Thulin ARIAN pulled another length of tissue from the roll and carefully wrapped it around the cutglass candleholder. She placed it beside its mate deep within the old trunk and reached for the matching fruit dish. It is like wrapping little pieces of myself and tucking them away in a dark place, sh thought.: The ring of the phone suddenly pierced the silence of the room. "Hello." "Marian, what are you doing? I saw Fred today and he told me you had signed a lease on your home." Marian was silent so long that the voice on the other end of the line said her name twice before she could answer. "I am going, Charles. I have to." "You must be out of your mind. How can you and the children possibly...?" His voice was going on and on, but she wasn't listening. She already knew what he would say when he found out she had decided to go. They had talked about it and he couldn't understand, and she couldn't explain... Not quite even to herself, let alone to Charles. But Marian had made up her mind she was going to the mine for the summer, as David had wanted her to do for so many summers... And only after his death had she Page 484 realized how much it had meant to him. That was the thing that had been so hard for her. The selfaccusations, the regrets.... She knew now that she had cheated David out of their summers, and at the same time had blamed him for their separation each year. She knew he had to do the assessment work or lose the mine. But she had argued each time as he was packing to go... Tried to get him to sell the land and hadn't realized how much she had pained him. "Why, you've never tangled with anything bigger or more fierce than a ladybug, Marian, you..." Charles' voice brought her back. "Please, Charles. I know the things you are saying are true." Her words were slow and deliberate, they had to be to keep her voice from trembling. "But it's just for the summer. Nothing too drastic can happen to us in that short a time." Had she heard herself correctly? Had she really said, that short a time, when deep within her she knew that from the 10th of June until the last of August would be an eternity. "T'm going to the mine for the summer, Charles, and Jimmy's going to do the assessment work that needs to be done to keep the property." There was a tone of finality to her words. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS ¢¢ TIMMY'S just a kid, he can't. Tell you what. I'll look around for someone you can hire." "No, Charles, we can manage fine. Everything's been arranged." She couldn't tell him there was no money with which to hire someone. David's insurance would be enough to live on fairly comfortably, but there would be no money for such extras. "Jim's fourteen now, and he's been going with his father every summer since he was nine. He says he knows what to do." 'Tears were threatening, but she made herself go on. "I... I've got to let him try." Charles was the silent one now. Then he said, "Marian, I'm going to miss you I had some plans...." Marian's heart warmed. Charles had never mentioned anything before about the two of them. "It's too soon for plans, Charles," Marian told him, and a wave of helplessness came over her. "But there isn't time... You're going.... I know I'm saying this badly, but, Marian, you need someone we both do." Yes, she needed someone. She felt so lonely and lost this last year. She was thirty-four, and that should be old enough to take care of herself, but she had always been so dependent. David had been so good to her... Had seen to everything... Had done the worrying for both of them. 'True, she had been alone each summer, but she had been able to cope with being alone in the city, with all the conveniences at her fingertips. If only he hadn't spoiled me so, she thought. "T can't bear to have you and the children go away," Charles was say- 485 ing. "How will you manage there in the wilderness?" Marian smiled to herself. "It isn't a wilderness. It's only seventeen miles from a little community." There she went again.... Only seventeen miles that same stretch of road had seemed like a thousand miles to her when she had honeymooned there fifteen years ago, as Mrs. David Morgan. She had wanted to go to a fine hotel in some large city or to a beach resort, and though she had tried to hide her disappointment, David had known, and that had been the last time he had taken her any place she had not wanted to go. "How will you manage?" Charles was asking again. And she couldn't answer him, dared not let herself think about how she was going to manage. "Thanks, Charles, for being concerned, and for caring..." her voice stopped. It was nice to have someone care. Maybe if he had said something sooner, but now her plans had been made. Aakian thought back. Charles Neering had moved into the ward about seven years ago, when his wife died. His grown daughter had come and stayed with him to help him adjust. Then, when she had to go back East to finish her schooling, he was left alone. He kept busy with his work and _ his Church duties, though, and was always on hand whenever anyone needed him. And since David's accident, he had been the rock of Gibralter to Marian and her family. But the memory of David was still too vivid to her. They had had such a beautiful life together, begin- 486 ning with their temple marriage, and they had six wonderful children. Charles was a city dweller, as Marian was, and David loved the mountains. If only she had gone with him back to Montana each summer.... But it was too late for regrets. She could only try to make it up to him, somehow, by teaching his children to love the things he had loved... By taking Jimmy back. "When are you leaving?" "In the morning... On the 8:15 train." "Is someone meeting you in Montana?" "Jim knows the stationmaster. He sent him a letter.' She tried to sound casual, as though she crossed two states with six children every day in the week, but she couldn't remember exactly what Jim had said they would do when they got there. "Tl come by and take you to the station," he offered. "Thanks, I was wondering what to do, now that we have no car." "TU bring the pick-up," he said, but she knew he was thinking, see, you can't even make it to the station without help., "Thanks," was all she could say. She hung up, wearily. "Mommy." It was Jill waking from her nap. "What are we doing? Our house is all messed up." Marian picked up the chubby three-year-old and nestled her nose in the warm little neck. "I know it is, sugar. Mommy's packing." 'Then she thought, oh, darling, how am I going to manage in the wilderness? Quickly she busied herself so the tears would not start. She wrapped the household items, mostly wedding gifts, and packed them away as She had had to pack away her life with David. The screen door banged, and she knew from the eager footsteps it was Jim. "Hi, Mom, how's the packing?" "Fine, almost through now." He is smiling... His old, eager smile, thought Marian. It's good to have him smile like that again. "Where're we going to put all these trunks and boxes?" He was standing in the middle of the room with his hands on his hips, looking around him. "We're going to take these boxes with us, and Petersons said we could use that little room in the basement to store the rest. He will put a lock on the door for me. How was the last day of school?" "Fine... Good marks in everything.... I'm sure glad Petersons are moving in to take care of the place. When will their house be finished?" "The last of August." "Works out just night.... Shall I take these things down now?" "Not yet. I want to label them so I'll know where everything is." "Mom," Jimmy put his hand on her shoulder, "is something wrong? You look worried." Marian looked up into the solemn young face. "Jimmy, I'm not worried, it's just that, that 'm not exactly the out-door type.... There will be so many things to get used to." "No, there won't, Mom. It will be fun, you just wait. The air ls so well, so and the green everywhere... The kids will love it." "Yes, I know they will." All but Sue, thought Marian. She's so much like me. Although her twelve-year- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS old daughter had not said much, Marian knew she was full of apprehensions. She had put off talking to Sue too long, hadn't quite been able to trust herself yet. "How're we going to get to the station? We're sure taking a lot of things." Jim shook his head. "Charles is coming in his pickup." Marian saw the look that briefly shadowed Jim's face. For a moment she was afraid he was going to say something, but he didn't, and Marian was glad. HE door banged again and Jed yelled, "Mom. There will, too, be bears, won't there?" "Oh, sure, and mountain lions, and even snakes." 'This remark from Ted was meant to be funny, but it brought a wail from Jill. Jed, the other half of Ted (that's what David always said about the ten-yearold twins), picked Jill up and assured her that Ted was only kidding. Marian felt she needed reassuring, along with the baby. "Mommy, you said it would be fun going to Montana. Will it be fun if there are snakes and bears?" Six-year-old 'Tommy's eyes were excited. Marian hugged him to her and changed the subject. "Did everyone pass?" The chorus of assent drowned out the sound of the door this time, and Marian would not have known Sue was home, but she caught sight of the blue skirt slipping around the hall doorway. Marian found Sue lying on her bed, tracing the floral pattern of the spread with her finger — outwardly resigned, inwardly in turmoil. Marian sat on the edge of the 487 bed. She wanted to take her daughter in her arms and comfort her as she used to when Sue was little, but she knew that would not help now. She smoothed Sue's honey-colored hair from her forehead and said, "Sue, I'm going to tell you something, and I want you to try to understand." Maybe it isn't best, thought Marian, to let her know how I feel, but I don't know what else to say. "You and I are going to have to be real brave, sort of like the pioneers. Remember the stories Grandma used to tell us?" "Yes, but all my friends...." "The pioneer women left everything, their beautiful homes, their families...." | "But, Mom, all summer. "That's not really so long. Come on, dear, when you act like this, you make it harder for me. And we can't let the others know how much we would rather stay here." "You mean you don't want to go, either?" Sue sat up. "Not really. I don't like to rough it. Guess I'm spoiled." They both smiled, and Marian went on, "I love to work in my flower garden, and I love nature, from a car window, but I'm just not a good mountaineer." "T'm not, either." "Then we'll have to pretend, won't we?" "T guess, only Kathy and the others have so many plans for the summer." Sue's chin quivered. "T'm going to be left out of some things, too. I'll miss my Relief Society meetings, and my garden club, and visiting with all my friends, and shopping, but I've had my subscription to The transferred, so we can read? 488 the Magazine together, and we can work on our Remembrance Books, and write lots of letters." "Could we take our pillowslips to finish?" "Yes, and I can teach you to crochet. Now come on, honey, we've got to put supper on. I still have some things to iron before I can finish the packing." Iron. Marian inwardly shuddered as she thought of the two heavy black irons with wooden handles that had made enemies with her before. She could still see them on the back of the old, ugly coal range, which was all the three-rroom cabin boasted. She remembered all too well her first attempts at ironing her pretty honeymoon housedresses. And she dared not think about doing the washing for the seven of them on that old scrubbing board in the big washtub. AFTER supper, Marian saw to it that the children all had their baths. "Really dig into those ears," she told them, "it will be a long time before you can have this much good, hot water again." "Oh, boy!" cried Jed. "No baths all summer!" "There'll be baths, all right," laughed Jimmy, "but not in hot water." "Gee." 'Tommy unbuttoned his shirt and tossed it on the floor. "Baths! I thought Montana was going to be fun!" Just before Marian tucked the children in bed, they had family prayer, and somehow, she felt very close to the Lord. "He will bless us, Mommy," Tommy said, giving Marian a big hug. "T'm sure he will." She tousled his still damp hair, and picked up jill. "You like bears, Mommy?" Jill's eyes were wide and deep. "Only Teddy bears, darling," and Marian wondered how long her supply of courage could last. That night when the last-minute details were finished, Marian lay thinking, going over her plans carefully, to be sure she hadn't forgotten anything. She and Jim and Sue had spent the whole week planning menus and shopping. They had bought each child a pair of good sturdy shoes, and she had patched mountains of overalls, packed bars of strong laundry soap, scrub brushes, and disinfectants. She wondered if the sewing kit and the first-aid box they had fixed would be adequate. And she hoped Jim remembered correctly about how many sleeping bags, blankets, and other supplies were stored at the cabin. So many details... So much to think about.... Suddenly, the house was very still. Marian lay for a long time, basking in the comfort of her soft, clean bed, looking into the darkness. She thought about her beloved home, tastefully decorated, comfortably furnished. 'Then she heard the clock beating a slow thythm in unison with her heart. Both seemed to say, "Stay home, Marian, stay home. Don't go into the wilderness." She covered her ears with her pillow and, after awhile, fell into a fitful sleep. (To be continued ) Don Knight THE SAN JUAN MOUNTAINS FROM NEAR RIDGE