The Pea Patch Doris Duncan HE branches of the willow tree by the bedroom window brushed back and forth in the morning light, making shadows on the wallpaper. I opened my eyes and watched the sunlight filtering through the green leaves. Helen's curly yellow head nestled softly in the huge feather pillow beside me, her breathing came regularly in sleep. I lifted the patchwork quilt from my side of the bed and slipped my feet to the cool smooth linoleum. The grass was still wet in the early morning dew. I stood at the halfopen window and watched the sunlight sparkle on the fresh green blades. The fluffy curtain billowed with a puff of spring air. It smelled wonderfully invigorating as I let it float around my bare arms and throat. I gathered up the dress and petticoat that lay on the chair and slipped my feet into the slippers beside the bed. Helen moved softly as I brushed past the bed. I opened the door quietly and left the room. Mama had already been up for hours. I had heard the hoe scraping into the ground since the first rays of dawn. It had a scratchy, chunking sound as she chopped the weeds in the garden. I wiggled out of the nightgown, letting it fall around my feet onto the kitchen floor. The fire felt good in the old coal stove. I stood for a moment with my back to it, feeling the warmth on my skin. Then I slipped Page 498 into the cotton petticoat and percale dress and ran outside. Back of the house mama was working in the vegetable garden. She smiled when she saw me, and straightened up from the rich, brown-dirt furrows. The hoe lay at the top of the row. I picked it up and walked down to where she was gathering pea pods into her apron. "Good morning, Sister," she said, "you are up early this morning." She stooped back down and began to gather the fat green pods into her lap. "The peas are filling out well," she said. I crouched beside her and picked up a vine in my fingers, looking at the pea pods clinging thickly to the trailing stem. I opened a pod and pushed the cool, round pellets into my mouth. They tasted good. Mama laughed and sat 'down in the furrow, spreading her apron out. We rested and ate peas from the pile in her lap. She took off the big straw hat and put it down beside her. Her hair was damp under the hat. It curled in little moist ringlets around her face. She loosened it from its pins and it fell in soft dark clouds down her back. The breeze played lovingly through the strands. I looked at the rows and rows of green plants lined up in the garden plot. Beyond the garden, the raspberry bushes were dotted with red berries, ready to be picked. Our back yard was huge and productive. Cur rants, gooseberry bushes, apple trees, THE PEA PATCH apricot and cherry and peach trees stretched their branches into the sky. "Getting about time for breakfast," Mama said. She gathered up her hat and bunched her apron, bulging with peas, as we walked toward the house. "Might be nice if we picked some berries for breakfast," she said. She stopped beside the strawberry patch, lifting a leaf here and there to pluck a ripe berry and lay it on top of the peas. "Tll get a pan," I said. I ran to the kitchen and picked up a saucepan from the cupboard. When I got back Mother placed the juicy berries into the shiny pan. I helped to fill the pan, popping the luscious fruit into my mouth at every opportunity. "You won't want anything to eat after all those peas and_ berries," Mama said. We walked back to the kitchen porch and sat down on the rough wooden steps. "I'm tired," she said. We sat and watched the neighbor boy driving his cows toward the pasture. The animals moved slowly up the lane, the boy walked carelessly behind them tossing a soft clod of dirt at their rumps to keep them moving. Helen came to the screen door, rubbing one bare foot against the other, sleepily. "Hi, Sister," Mama said, looking up. "Come on out and sit awhile." She moved over, making room for 499 the chubby youngster. "See what we found for you this morning," Mama said, holding open her apron. "The peas are ready to eat." She pulled the curly head into the crook of her arm, hugging the smooth bare shoulders. Helen picked up a pod and squeezed the peas out into her dimpled little hand. Mama and I laughed. What a happy day! 'The sun seemed to look down and laugh with us. "Here, try one of the berries," Mama said. The strawberry was almost as big as the little palm. The baby held it in her hand for a minute and then pushed it into her mouth. Mama scooped her up and kissed the rosy mouth. "I wish Daddy could see how much you have grown." She untied her apron and set the peas to one side, gathering the wriggling youngster into her ample lap. "Well, let's go inside and have breakfast," Mama said, standing up. We went into the kitchen. "We'll have to pick the rest of those peas today," she said. "They certainly have filled out early this year.'' She picked up the steel poker and began to stir up the kitchen fire. The sun looked through the window and winked at me. I curled up on the woodbox by the window and gazed contentedly at the blue cloudless sky. Summer was my very favorite time of year.