Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or Att NatTIons" WOMEN WHO WIELD THE PEN: Of those dear sisters and frends who have been occasional contributors to the Exponent some still lend a helping hand and some who took great delight in the work have passed behind the veil. Eliza R. Snow, Hannah T. King, Sarah M. Kimball, Louie Wells and Julia McDonald have laid aside the pen, but are not forgotten. We still have Augusta Joyce Crocheron, Ellis R. Shipp, Lydia D. Alder, Emily H. Woodmansee, Mary A. Freeze, Ruth M. Fox, Annie Wells Cannon, Romania B. Pratt and a score of others, only most of them are too busy doing other things to give us even occasional glimpses of what they think and feel... And it is long since we have heard from "'Alofa," "Hyacinth," "Hope," or dear little "Gladys," or "Homespun". — Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN EMERY STAKE: President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed all, was pleased to see so many present. Reported the labors of the Stake officers throughout the various wards, and of visiting from one society to another, encouraging the young ladies to join the Relief Society.... Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we were the most blessed people on the face of the earth. We should always be obedient to the priesthood. If there should ever be any differences among the sisters it should be settled among themselves according to the regular order.... Told us of the visiting plan also of encouraging the young ladies to join the society.... Read the minutes of the first organization of the Relief Society in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the meetings held in those days.... — Mary O. Miller, Sec. MAKE MY HEART BRAVE! Make my heart brave, O Lord! Brave for the loss of faces dearer grown; Brave for the battle that is mine alone; The glory unachieved I thought mine own, Make not my burden less; make my heart brave! — Annie Pike MRS. HORNE HOME: Hon. Alice Merrill Horne has just returned from Chicago where she has been staying for a month past, the guest of Miss Josephine C. Locke, former supervisor of drawing in the Chicago public schools. Mrs. Horne visited the public schools there and brought home a variety of drawings for comparison with our local school work. She met a number of the leading teachers, educators and artists of that city and attended noted lectures at the University of Chicago and the Chicago Institute of Art. — News Note A SURPRISE IN HONOR OF RETIRING OFFICERS: A very enjoyable time was held at the Montpelier (Idaho) meeting house... An unusual occasion owing to the fact that each of our honored sisters was bern in a foreign land, each crossed the plains in a handcart company and each was among the first to settle in this once forbidding valley. — Mary A. Perkins