Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon TWO Latter-day Saint women, Mrs. Luacine Clark Fox, and Mrs. Berta Huish Christensen, have been awarded national honors by the Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. 'The awards were presented by the Foundations President, Dr. Kenneth D. Wells, April 29, 1962, over a special program on KSL television and radio, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs. Fox wrote the script "The Sound of a Bell," in which bells were portrayed as symbols of freedom, and the Nauvoo Bell was featured. Mrs. Christensen was honored for her series of poems, "Portrait of Freedom," exemplifying historic moments of significant import in the establishment and defense of freedom in America. EARL BUCK'S latest book, A Bridge for Passing, tells of her experience in assisting with the making of her novel, The Big Wave, into a movie in Japan; the changes in modern Japan, particularly among the women; the death of her husband at home in the USA, and the bridge by which she tries to learn to pass from twenty-five years of an unusually happy marnage to widowhood. HELEN THOMAS, seventh of ten children of Lebanese-American parents, is United Press International's "girl at the White House." With political journalism as her goal, Helen went to Washington immediately upon graduation from Wayne University, _ Detroit, and after some years was reporting, nationally, Department of Justice and other agencies news. UEEN JULIANA of Holland on May third celebrated her fifty-third birthday and the silver wedding anniversary of her marriage to Prince Bernhard. Six reigning European monarchs and many princes and princesses paid tribute in person to Juliana, who is much admired and respected, and to her distinguished Prince Consort. R. NANCY G. ROMAN is Chief of the Astronomy and Solar Physics Programs of the Office of Space Sciences of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States. Her work includes planning, coordination and institution of a comprehensive program of astronomical observations conducted from beyond the atmosphere of the earth by means of rockets and satellites. Page 505 O— >