LITERATURE America's Literature Lesson 33 — Thoreau, Man in Nature Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495) For Tuesday, October 16, 1962 Objective: gift of life. HENRY DAVID THOREAU ALMOST everyone who has heard of Henry David Thoreau knows that he spent two years living in a shanty he constructed with his own hands on the shore of Walden Pond some few miles outside Concord, Massachusetts. And now as then the inevitable questions follow: Why did he leave normal society for so long? Other than verifying impressions of his being eccentric, Page 540 To feel and appreciate Thoreau's "'inexpressible satisfaction" with the what did he prove? And most pressing, what did it get him? The desperate publisher of Thoreau's first book A Week on the Concord and Merrimac Rivers, dumped on the author over seven hundred of the thousand copies printed rather than burn them, so poorly did they sell. Thoreau's Walden, a _ compilation which "sprouted" from his journals, sold less than two thousand copies before his death in 1862. Yet, in our century, few American books have been more widely translated throughout the world. While many giants of English and American nineteenthcentury literature constantly diminish, he who received scorn and neglect from his contemporaries, continues to grow in stature, influence, and challenge. Thus our final question to ourselves might well be to ask why this is so, and what our own age finds in his long-neglected pages that lay there concealed so cunningly for more than a century. Here two widely accepted generalizations may help us. First, many accept 'Thoreau as the most pene- | LESSON DEPARTMENT trating nature-writer America, if not all mankind, has produced. Second, no American has surpassed the power and subtlety of his prose. The following sentences reveal fully both Thoreau's all-consuming love of nature and the pristine purity of the out-of-doors as seen through his eyes.... Walden is a perfect forest mirror, set round with stones as precious to my eye as if fewer or rarer. Nothing so fair, so pure, and at the same time so large, as a lake, perchance, lies on the surface of the earth. Sky water. It needs no fence. Nations come and go without defiling it. It is a mirror which no stone can crack, whose quicksilver will never wear off, whose gilding Nature continually repairs; no storms, no dust, can dim its surface ever fresh; — a mirror in which all impurity presented to it sinks, swept and dusted by the sun's hazy brush — this the light dust-cloth — which retains no breath that is breathed on it, but sends its own to float as clouds high above its surface, and be reflected in its bosom still (Walden, "The Ponds," page 195). Thoreau loved Nature, and by giving himself completely to her on her own terms, he felt that he could change and grow nearer the perfection which Nature best symbolized to him. Again of Walden Pond:. It is itself unchanged, the same water which my youthful eyes fell on; all the change is in me. It has not acquired one permanent wrinkle after all its ripples. It is perennially young,... Where a forest was cut down last winter another is springing up by its shore as lustily as ever; the same thought is welling up to its surface that was then; it is the same liquid joy and happiness to itself and its Maker, ay, and it may be to me (Ibid., page 199). Herein Thoreau reminds us that regardless of how brusquely visible nature may be roughed, her eternal identity is constant; she is ever young and self-renewing to those who can scrape aside irrelevancies 541 and commune with her. To those who will hear Thoreau out and come to him on his own terms, few writers are more challenging or rewarding. From 1845, when he went to Walden, to almost 1945, Thoreau the man has been so controversial a personality both to his critics and his would-be readers, that his words have not been read and evaluated on their own merit or in the light of his deeper intent. 'Thus we may justly say of Walden as Thoreau said of Walden Pond, "it is itself unchanged... All the change is in me." Before 'Thoreau's words could be fully appreciated, 'Thoreau, sharp-tongued yet tender, had to die, and also the false image of Thoreau as created by the influential James Russell Lowell, who by background and personal temperament simply could not understand him. To citybred, professorial Lowell a symbolic approach to nature was incomprehensible, and when, as editor of the newly launched Atlantic Monthly, he insisted on his privilege as editor to change some of 'Thoreau's carefully chosen words in a manuscript submitted for publication, Thoreau defended his integrity. The quarrel which followed emphasized the personal objections Lowell had _previously found in him, thus delaying a just and sympathetic reading of Thoreau for several decades. Thoreau the Man Outwardly, according to usual standards, Thoreau's life was barren. Born July 12, 1817, in Concord, he graduated from Harvard when he was twenty, briefly taught school but rebelled against dressing in 542 formal clothes and against beating his students into learning, as local administrators expected him to do. Aside from some few brief trips to Maine, Cape Cod, Staten Island, and New York City, he spent his entire forty-four years in Concord. Intermittently he helped edit the Dial, the mouthpiece of Transcendentalism, lectured almost annually before the Concord Lyceum and occasionally elsewhere, made _ pencils in his father's factory, surveyed, and performed menial domestic odd jobs. Ralph Waldo Emerson was attracted to the youthful scholar, who was able to read Greek, Latin, French, Italian, Spanish, and German. He saw in Thoreau a man of independent mind and of great promise. At Emerson's invitation, Thoreau served as hired man in the Emerson household while the famous writer and lecturer was abroad. Save for those rare occasions when his time was committed elsewhere, Thoreau walked in the woods and fields every day of his life, striding with a fierce Indian-like cadence which became his hallmark. It seems ironical that one who so loved physical exertion and striding through the woods unrestricted by trail or road should be afflicted by tuberculosis, yet so it was. During Thoreau's final months of confinement at home, when he saw lifelong friends passing by, he asked his mother, "Why don't they come to see me? I love them as if they were my own." Learning of his desire, his friends came often thereafter. As long as he could still sit up, he insisted in taking his place at the family table at mealtime. "It would not be sociable to take my meals alone." When death was not far off, a religious, yet curious friend asked him, "Henry, have you made your peace with God?" To which Thoreau replied, "I was not aware that we had quarreled." His final words reveal his typical care in choosing words, as well as his sound wisdom: "It is better some things should end." An anonymous obituary notice in a Boston paper commented, "When we now look back at the solitude of his erect and spotless person, we lament that he did not live long enough for all men to know him." Emerson spoke of him in similar vein at his funeral:, The country knows not yet, or in the least part, how great a son it has lost. His soul was made for the noblest society; he had in a short life exhausted the capabilities of this world; wherever there is knowledge, wherever there is virtue, wherever there is beauty, he will find a home (Canby, Henry S.: Thoreau, Houghton Mifflin Co., 1939, Pp. 454-455). Some people, however, did not share his esteem. 'They felt him to be an educated loafer who showed no leadership or respect for intellectual pursuits as a college graduate should, but instead escaped responsibilities of marriage and society by his zeal for being in nature and studying her, but only to please himself. But others respected and loved him. Whittier felt his books were the work of a genius, for "to take up his books is like a stroll in the woods or a sail on the lake — the leaves rustle and the water ripples along his pages." He always reminded a lifelong friend of "an eagle, ready to soar to great heights or to swoop down on anything he considered evil." For his superior insight and honesty, 'Thoreau's LESSON DEPARTMENT greatest friend and lifelong influence, Emerson, deserves the final words, as he recorded in July 1852: Thoreau gives me, in flesh and blood and pertinacious Saxon belief, my own ethics. He is far more real, and daily practically obeying them, than I; and fortifies my memory at all times with an affirmative experience which refuses to be set aside. On two qualities in Thoreau all agreed. Children loved him, so freely did he give himself to them. He juggled for them, drew his knife out of their ears, sang folksongs, told Indian stories, and regularly took them for rides in his boat and led huckleberry parties. Conversely, with adults Henry was shy. Harvard classmates recalled that when he conversed at all, it was with eyes lowered. He abhorred group socials, particularly formal calls on friends when all sat about stiffly amid pauses, bantering respectable cliche phrases, while really each hid behind the bastion of his non-communicating self. The Emersons claimed that he could not walk through the kitchen where ladies were present without blushing, and Ellen Sewall's refusing his one proposal of marriage did not make him less isolated. Perhaps Elizabeth Hoar was justified in saying of him, "I love Hentry, but do not like him.... One would as soon take the arm of an elm tree." Thoreau, Lover of the Ideal in Nature Evidently Henry was not unaware of his "faults'' as society defined them, for in 1852 he wrote of himself, "If I am too cold for human friendship I trust I shall not soon 543 be too cold for natural influences." He was the true son of nature who, according to Bronson Alcott, "had the profoundest passion for nature of any one of his time." Removing himself from all man-made distractions, he retired to Walden Pond, in his own words,... Because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to dic, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practice resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartanlike as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it m my next excursion (Walden, '""Where I Lived and What I Lived For," pp. 96-97. See also Text, page 485.) No one has ever reduced life to a lower denominator than did Thoreau, nor wrested from one's existence in Nature a meaning and significance more sublime. "It is the marriage of the soul with Nature that makes the intellect fruitful, and gives birth to imagination," he wrote in his Journal in 1851, and no better proof of his statement exists than his own writing, afire with piercing keenness and apt image as he details his "inexpressible satisfaction" within himself once he realizes he is at one with Nature. In "Spring," a chapter in Walden, which was published in 1854, eight years before his death, Thoreau speaks thus: 544 We need the tonic of wildness — to wade sometimes in marshes where the bittern and the meadow-hen lurk, and hear the booming of the snipe, to smell the whispering sedge where only some wilder and more solitary fowl builds her nest, and the mink crawls with its belly close to the ground. At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be infinitely wild, unsurveyed, and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have enough of Nature. We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigour, vast and Titanic features — the sea-coast with its wrecks, the wilderness with its living and its decaying trees, the thunder cloud, and the rain which lasts three weeks and_ produces freshets. We need to witness our own limits transgressed, and some life pasturing freely where we never wander (Walden, '""Where L Lived and What I Lived For," pp. 317-318). While believing that "we must never under-estimate the value of a fact, for it might one day blossom into a truth," Thoreau greatly feared those who approached life and Nature with the scientist's objectivity, regarding all reality as fact only. For one truly alive,... The earth is not a mere fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a book, to be studied by geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit — not' a fossil earth, but a living earth; compared with whose great central life all animal and vegetable life is merely parasitic. (Ibid., page 310). Earlier in Walden, from his essay "Where I Lived," he memorably specifies this grand theme, namely, that the ultimate good life is here and now, beneath our feet and within our perceiving eye, if only we can learn to sense its real meaning. How good is here-and-now, as seen by Thoreau: If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweetscented herbs, that is your success. The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indiscernible as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched. Thus Thoreau reveals himself in true dress and dream: eternally he is discontented, ever stirring up trouble among his fellows by reminding them of the sweet joy of existence which they, too, could know and experience, if only they would believe and aspire. Once again in a final quotation, Thoreau tries to pull man and prod him to soar above himself by seeing himself in Nature not actually but symbolically. The quotation is from the essay "Walk- 7 ing" which was published after his death. We hug the earth — how rarely we mount! Methinks we might elevate ourselves a little more. We might climb a tree, at least. I found my account in climbing a tree once. It was a tall white pine, on the top of a hill; and though I got well pitched, I was well paid for it, for I discovered new mountains in the horizon which I had never seen before — so much more of the earth and the heavens. I might have walked about the foot of the tree for threescore years and ten, and yet I certainly should never have seen them. But, above all, I discovered around me — it was near the end of June — on the ends of the topmost branches only, a few minute and delicate red conelike blossoms, the fertile flower of the white pine looking heavenward. I carried straightway to the village the topmost spire, and showed it to stranger jurymen who walked the streets — for it was court week — but they wondered as at a star dropped down. 'Tell of ancient architects finishing their works on the tops of columns as perfectly as on the lower and more visible parts! Nature has from the LESSON DEPARTMENT first expanded the minute blossoms of the forest only toward the heavens, above men's heads and unobserved by them. We see only the flowers that are under our feet in the meadows. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does Thoreau increase your appreciation of life? 345 2. If Thoreau's ideas and style could be simplified, should they be? 3. How do you account for the fact that few American books have been more widely translated throughout the world than has Thoreau's Walden? 4. What particular memories of nature do Thoreau's vivid descriptions bring back to you?