[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Making Life]
They should bring together the women of the Church in a spirit of love and fellowship. Anniversary Day should be a day when every woman has a good time, when she returns to her home grateful for the completeness of the organization and her membership in it, singing in her heart, "For glorious achievement throughout the passing years, For wond'rous devotion that ever endears, We honor and love those who fashioned for good The ideals we cherish, ennobling womanhood," "Making Friends With Life" —Dr. James Reid By Lais V. Hales ONE of the crying needs of our day is that we should make friends with life. The Chinese have such a habit. There, even though a man is desperately poor and unfortunate, he will sit in the sun with his bit of bread and taste the beauty of the flowers, the trees, the birds. No outside influence can destroy his inner calm or take away his joy. "I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content."
Life to many of us is like a dog with an uncertain temper. We never know at what moment it may turn and bite us.
Some people are suspicious of life.
Some are hostile to it while others fight it.
Most of us are never quite happy, never wholly at our ease. We have not made friends with life. In making friends with life two things should be remembered. One is the habit of realizing joys as they pass. "I mark only the sunny hours," is the motto on a sundial.
That way of living is not possible, for the dark hours cannot be cut out of our lives. But "much of the good of life is lost for want of noting it and tasting it with gratitude before its passing." 'The other fact that we must remember is acceptance.
Rebellion is foolish and the way to bitterness. In life there will be things that annoy and wound.
Accept them, for they are part of God's discipline.
With this acceptance will come peace.
Christ tells us that "life is God's instrument for making us what He wants us to be, and for giving us His own best gifts."
There are things God can give us through the sweet and lovely experiences of life. But there are things He can give us only when some wound has made an opening for His love and care.
There are things He can say to us through a sunset, and there are things He can say to us through a sunset, and there are things He can say to us through sorrow. We must realize that whatever happens, it is all good. We can be sure of God's love in everything. He does not strike the cruel blow.
Sorrow comes fo us in a world which He has made. "His power to control and transform for our good that which happens we must keep in mind. We become friends with life when we make friends with God." To attain this Christ tells us to find time or make time for quietness and solitude. "Be still, and know that Iam God." It is in inner quietness with God that our souls are nourished.
Like plants in the garden, the quality of our life on the surface depends on the roots—the life below the surface.
Peace comes from knowing that God is our friend. 'Vhe world," said Keats, "Ss the vale of soul-making." FRUSTRATION is a very common feeling.
