[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Guide | Title: Obedience]

Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 8

Obedience

JESUS said, "My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work." (John 4:34.)

Obedience is a most outstanding trait in the perfect personality—our Savior; indeed we may say He is obedience personified. "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." (Heb. 5:8.)

Jesus contended that there was only one way in which to build personalities sufficiently strong to withstand trials, and that was through obedience to His teachings. The progress made thus far by psychologists can find no flaw in this contention, says Dr. Ligon, psychologist of Union College.

It is impossible to build strong structures upon weak foundations, but it is possible to build strong foundations. Obedience as taught by Jesus forms a strong foundation for desirable personality. Jesus explains this matter in the Sermon on the Mount, "Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock." (Matthew 7:24-5.)

By modern revelation Latter-day Saints are commanded to study the Gospel and teach it to their children: (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68:25-28.) In obeying this commandment of the Master they will develop personalities which will meet life understandingly.

Love must be the keynote in all our teachings of obedience. If a child is taught really to love God he will give the type of obedience to God's commandments which develops strong personality. Children are naturally happy in obeying those they love.

If parents are consistently obedient to these commandments their teachings will be effective. "By strict obedience Jesus won the prize with glory rife. Thy will, O Lord, not mine be done adorned His mortal life."

Discussion

1. Cite a commandment of the Master and show how obedience to it affects personality desirably.

2. What type of obedience should be required in the home in order to secure the best personality development of family members?

Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the Ward.