[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology and SJestimony 2
Lesson 8 PETER, DISCIPLE and
APOSTLE HELPFUL REFERENCES
James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 140, 197-199, 218 f., 314 f., 360-364, 368, 370-376, 595 ?., 599 f., 610-612, 616, 629-631. C. R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. -22. > A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve; consult index under heading of Peter. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 108-121. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 17-35. PETER ls Brought to the Christ.? The Gospel of John tells us in very simple language how Peter was brought to our Lord. We are told that one of John the Baptist's disciples was responsible for making the Man of Rock acquainted with the Master. To our surprise it is disclosed that the disciple was Andrew, Peter's own brother. Andrew and John, brother of James, had left their work at the fishing business to visit John the Baptist who was preaching and baptizing at Bethabara beyond the Jordan. They had probably made many similar visits before and had been won over to John's preaching. On this particular occasion the Baptist was standing with Andrew and John and saw the Savior approaching. Turning to his two disciples he said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!" (John 1:36) Then follows the famous account of the future apostles' first visit with the Christ. So impressed was Andrew that "He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ." (Verse 41) Andrew brought Peter to Christ who looked at him and said, "Thou art Simon the son of Jona; thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, a stone." (Verse 42) From the story as told by John we cannot quite escape the belief that Peter was also one of John the Baptist's disciples and was not far away. Earnest students of the Gospels are thankful for the limited accounts we have of these first meetings of Peter, Andrew and John with our Lord, but are hungry for greater details. What were the circumstances that caused Peter, Andrew, and John to become disciples of the Baptist? How long had they been with him when they met the Christ? These details and many others we should like to know because of our supreme interest in the characters involved. It seems remarkable that several of Christ's future apostles should have come to him through the good offices of the Baptist, the last man holding the keys of the Mosaic dispensation.
124 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY