[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: SIMON PETER Goes Back to Work]

SIMON PETER Goes Back to Work.—The Gospel of John (2:2) employs the word "disciples" or "learners" of Peter and his five companions who joined the Savior at Bethabara beyond Jordan. At the marriage feast in Cana the Master turned water into wine. The marvelous power of the Messiah over the elements must have deeply impressed Peter and the other disciples for the record says, "This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him." (John 2:11) We do not know how much time Peter and his colleagues were spending in the company of the Christ, but they did not give up their vocations at that time. During their absence it is probable that "hired servants" (Mark 1:20) carried on the fishing business. In the next picture we find that Peter and the others of the fishing firm had gone back to their regular work.

"I WILL Make You Fishers of Men."—Our Lord is pictured by Matthew walking by the Sea of Galilee when he sees Peter and Andrew casting their nets into the water. The Savior says to them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men." (Matt. 4:19) The Master is quick to convert the word "fishers" to spiritual purposes. The fishermen were from now on to fish for the souls of men. We may perhaps regard the Christ's words to them as a formal call for training in his service. Farther down the shore James and John are found and receive the same call as Peter and Andrew. (Matt. 4:21, 22) These disciples now burn all their bridges behind them. "And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him." Only strong convictions and high moral courage could cause them to leave their families and their business and follow after a man who had been, and would yet be, extremely unpopular in high circles. It is probable that Peter, as the leader of the group, had given some careful thought before this time to the nature of the Messiah's teachings and to his supernatural powers. Men do not usually leave their homes and business at a word without counting the cost.

PETER is Chosen to be an Apostle.—It is impossible for us to deal with all of the events that concerned Peter before the Savior called the Twelve. The latter seem to have been called when the organized opposition of the Pharisees from Jerusalem brought about a crisis. Then, too, the common people were so interested in the Christ that they followed him in great crowds. Probably our Lord felt that the definite organization of the Church would provide him with some badly needed assistance. We do not know how long Peter and his companions followed the Master before being made apostles, but probably long enough for the Lord to make amply sure that his choice of men was justified. Luke gives the following account of the circumstances under which the apostles were chosen: "And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples; and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles." (Luke 6:12, 13) The solemnity of the appointments is shown by the fact that the Christ spent a whole night in prayer before he formally set the Twelve apart. All the lists of the Twelve have Peter named first. There can be little doubt that he was ordained before the others, and was intended by our Lord to head the Quorum, despite all that has been written to the contrary.

THE Great Confession.—Probably many months after the appointment of the apostles our Lord came into the region of Caesarea Philippi. He had spent much time in teaching them of the true nature of his work and mission. The Master, great teacher that he was, determined to test his apostles in relation to their understanding of him as compared with other people. The Christ did not doubt the loyalty of the Twelve to him. That had been sufficiently demonstrated at various times. But the shadow of the Cross was near at hand and it was necessary for him to know their spiritual growth and insight. The Savior therefore raised a preliminary question in order to bring clearly the issue before the apostles. "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" (Matt. 16:13) The apostles responded immediately with the answer that the opinions of men differed. "Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets." (Matt. 16:14) This was common talk and not unknown to the Christ, but it paved the way for his vital question: "But whom say ye that I am?" (See Mark 8:29; Matt. 16:15; Luke 9:20) This was the matter that the Master was intensely interested in. It was a searching of the apostles' hearts. Would they fail him after long months of teaching by precept and example? It would probably be impossible for ordinary men to conceive the joy that filled our Lord when Peter impulsively, but with a full heart, answered, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This was a great confession, and we can expect a great rejoinder. It came. "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I also say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth will be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 16:17-18.) These verses have aroused supreme interest among Christian peoples and have been variously interpreted. With due respect to the opinions of others, Latter-day Saints interpret the statements of the Master as follows: By the principle of revelation, Peter had received knowledge that Jesus was the Christ. On this enduring principle or rock the Christ meant to build his Church. Peter was to be given the keys of the kingdom of heaven which means that he was to hold all of the powers necessary to carry on God's work in the earth. So powerful were these keys that they held the powers of binding and loosing in heaven. Only the true Church of Christ on earth today recognizes and understands fully the nature of these keys.

PETER Receives the Keys of the Kingdom Upon the Mount of Transfiguration.—The Christ fulfilled his promise to Peter by conferring the keys upon him very shortly after the above incident. He took Peter, James, and John upon a high mountain where "he was transfigured before them; and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him." (Matthew 17:2, 3.) The apostles were shown many marvelous things upon the mount including the pattern according to which the earth shall be transfigured in due time. (Doctrine and Covenants 63:21.) The Prophet Joseph Smith points out that the keys of the Priesthood were conferred upon these apostles while on the mount. He says, "The Priesthood is everlasting. The Savior, Moses, and Elias, gave the keys to Peter, James and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him." (History of the Church, Vol. III, page 387.) This statement of the Prophet is a real contribution to knowledge. It seems so reasonable, too, when we consider the fact that Matthew has the transfiguration story immediately following the Savior's promise of giving keys to Peter. Note, also, the fact that the three men afterward to function as the Presidency of the Church were the ones chosen to go with the Christ.

PETER Thrice Denies His Master.—We have seen Peter as fisherman, disciple of John the Baptist and the Christ, and as an apostle who has had a revelation that Jesus is the Christ, and who has received the "keys of the kingdom" under glorious circumstances. Now we shall see him as a weak, feeble, mortal whose infirmities are laid bare during the trial of his great Master. After the Last Supper, Peter had protested to our Lord as follows: "Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended." (Matthew 26:33.) But Christ answered, "Verily I say unto thee, That this night before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice." The Gospel further records: "Peter says to him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples." (See Matthew 26:34, 35.) Peter was with the Christ during his agony in Gethsemane and his subsequent betrayal. The Man of Rock attempted to save his Master and in doing so cut off the ear of Malchus which Jesus restored. Finally the mob prevailed, and the apostles all fled. Peter at last decided to follow the Master "afar off" to court for trial. We all know the familiar story of how he drew near to where the trial was going on and was accused by two maids of having associated with "Jesus the Galilean." He denied the charge to each, and the third time when confronted by others he "began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man." (Matthew 26:74.) The Gospel goes on to say, "And immediately the cock crew. And Peter remembered the words of Jesus, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly."

How are the mighty fallen! The story of Peter's fall is told with simplicity and great power in the Gospels. There is no attempt to cover up his mistakes or to justify them. But Peter's greatness is revealed by the fact that he is the one probably responsible for our having any knowledge of his sin at all. Who could have told the story of his thrice denial of the Master? Aside from the latter Peter is the only one who knew the facts. The Man of Rock probably told and retold many times over the story of his great mistake to the ancient Church. His mental and spiritual agony because of his sin can only be imagined. We love this impulsive character even in his weakness.

Questions and Problems
(Deal Only With As Many As Time Permits)

1. It appears that Peter and some of his immediate colleagues were disciples of John the Baptist. Do you think they were disturbed over religion in the same sense Joseph Smith was when he sought God in prayer? Discuss.

2. Why do you suppose the Savior performed so many miracles in the presence of Peter and the other apostles?

3. List some of Peter's strong points and weaknesses. Analyze the character of the man.

4. The Savior seemed to love John even more than Peter. Why do you suppose he chose the latter to be the chief apostle?

5. Why was it necessary for Moses and Elijah to be present on the mount of Transfiguration when Peter, James, and John received the keys of the Priesthood?

6. Discuss the serious nature of Peter's thrice denial of the Christ.

7. In the light of Peter's life discuss the following proposition: Christ loves men not necessarily for what they are but for what they may become.

8. The teacher is advised to read Mrs. Browning's sonnet, "The Meaning of the Look," to the class. (Luke 22:61.)