[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Protein]
The Body's Need for Protein By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department—University of Utah
In the previous article the body's need for heat and energy was discussed. The present article will consider the body's need for building materials. The reader will recall that one depends largely upon the sugars, starches, fats and to a lesser extent upon protein foods, such as milk, cheese, eggs, cereals and meat, for the heat and energy needed by the body. For growth and maintenance of body tissue one needs the above mentioned foods, but in addition water and the mineral salts are required. All of these building materials must be supplied in the food if the body is to grow and function normally. Next to water, protein composes the greatest proportion of the body tissue. The term "protein" is derived from a Greek verb meaning "to take first place". The word proteins is a group term covering a large number of foods which include the element nitrogen. Today we know much more about the growth and functioning of the body than was known when protein was assigned the "first place" in nutrition. However with this additional knowledge, protein foods still occupy a very important place.
Nature of Proteins
The proteins are essential constituents of every living cell, both plant and animal. No cell can be formed without the help of proteins. They make up the greater part of all the muscle tissue as well as the brain and nerve tissue. Proteins are important constituents of the blood and of the secretions of the various glands that have so much to do in regulating the functions of the body. Proteins are also used in the manufacture of the digestive juices. Proteins differ from our other foods—starches, sugars, and fats—in that they contain the element nitrogen. This important element is taken from the soil by the growing plants. Nitrogen, together with the water from the soil and the carbon dioxide from the air, is used by Nature to manufacture protein foods. The original source of all proteins is the vegetable kingdom. Man and animals eat the vegetable proteins and use them to build animal proteins which are used for the growth of body tissues and to perform the many other important functions assigned to them.
Protein is a very complex substance. There are many different kinds and sources of proteins. The animal proteins, such as milk, cheese, eggs and meat, are the principal sources. The cereals, because of being used in such large amounts, constitute an important source. There is a limited amount of protein in all fruits and vegetables. Proteins are made up of varying combinations and quantities of twenty-three amino acids or building stones each containing the important element nitrogen. All the amino acids have characteristics in common; yet each one is a distinct chemical unit. Borrowing Mary Swartz Rose's means of explaining the composition of proteins, one thinks of the amino acids as a large assortment of beads of twenty-three different colors and sizes and many of each kind in the collection: "To represent a protein we may select one sample of each of the different beads and arrange a figure; or we may take the same twenty-three amino acids, some kinds singly, others by threes or fours, perhaps some by the dozen and arrange another figure of quite a different pattern." Each figure will represent a certain protein and yet each will be very different in its composition. Some proteins contain all the amino acids, some only seventeen while others are made up of only ten or twelve amino acids. The writer is refraining from giving the scientific names of the amino acids as they are difficult to remember and would only be confusing.
Classification of Proteins
