[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Literature | Title: A City of Bells]
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 8

A City of Bells

WHEN men as great as Dickens and Thackeray die, the world gasps and people wonder if their like will ever be seen again. However, the novel had come to stay, and, therefore, it was natural that men and women would be found to carry on where those two giants, and George Eliot, Richard Blackmore, and a score of others had left off.

Today novels roll from the printing presses in England and this country by the thousands. Many have marks of greatness on them; others clearly are written only to be read and tossed aside. In this country such books as Anthony Adverse and Gone With the Wind have surprised the critics with their popularity despite their length in an era that "hasn't time".

Over in England a number of women besides those mentioned by Professor Phelps are writing their stories and sending them out like ships to sea. Among these there may be women of significance.

As our last novel in this year's course, we have selected A City of Bells, by Elizabeth Goudge.

This novel is very recent, having been published first in 1936. The author is still a comparatively young woman, approximately thirty-eight years of age, and is still writing.

In a biographical sketch furnished by her American publishers she says: "I was born in 1900 at Wells, Somersetshire, the cathedral town I have described as 'Torminster' in my novel, A City of Bells. When I was born my father was Vice-Principal of the Theological College, and we lived in the house with the tower in which Grandfather and Grandmother Fordyce live in the book. When I was three years old, and my father became the Principal of the College, we moved across the road to another old house, with carved angels in the corners of the rooms and dark passages that were wonderful for hide-and-seek.

"Though I was only a child I was never lonely in those early days. I had perfect parents and a perfect Nannie, and my invalid mother was, and is, the most wonderful storyteller in the world. . . .

"My chief playmates in those days were a family of boys who lived across the road in the house with the tower. . . .

"One of those little boys and I did lessons together with a governess, Miss Lavington. To look at she was like the Miss Lavender of A City of Bells, but she was not like her in her methods of teaching. She was a magnificent, if stern, teacher. I have never had any memory nor any brains, but what little I do know was pounded into my unwilling mind by Miss Lavington."

Being the daughter of a school man, Miss Goudge moved with her family from one school town to another until her father finally became connected with Oxford. She concludes her sketch by saying: "Now I am writing about my present home, Oxford, which I love now as much as the quiet little towns of Wells and Ely. . . . But plays, just because they are so difficult and I never have any success with them, are still my first love."

Miss Goudge's great desire was to be a playwright. She says: "I was thirty-two before any success came my way: a Sunday night performance in London of a play about the Brontes. It was a small success, but no bigger one could bring me half so much joy again. I saw my play beautifully acted by real live actors and actresses, and I had some good notices in the papers. I was in heaven."

She remained in "heaven," however, only a short time. "I returned home so encouraged that I gathered my plays together into a book and sent it the round of several publishers, with the humble suggestion that it would be nice if it could be published. The publishers, however, did not think so; there was no market for unknown plays. 'But,' said one kind publisher, 'your work shows promise. Why not try to write a novel?' "

Miss Goudge took the suggestion and has had the pleasure of having three novels published, Island Magic, The Middle Window and A City of Bells, each one a rather pleasing success. Her first novel, however, was rejected once or twice by publishers who were afraid to take a chance with it.

A City of Bells is having a deserved sale in this country as well as in England where it was first published. It is a delightful story of modern English life in which the quaint charm of an English village is to be felt and enjoyed.

It is a relief to many people to turn to a story like A City of Bells. In it is to be found sunshine and laughter as well as a sane, ordered existence such as most people, after all, enjoy. It is clean and wholesome, but because it deals only with the brighter side of life, it may lack in depth and significance.

It was well received by the book reviewers as is indicated by the following excerpts from reviews. We quote them because they may not be obtainable by the literary teacher, and because, in most cases, they present so beautifully the tone of this charming novel.

"It is good to have on hand a few novels not only fundamentally happy, but well and truly written. This one is both: it should be marked down for those reading for peace and delight."—Booklist, M. L. Becker.

"A City of Bells is a joyous tale, whose rippling, magical prose is that of the born story-teller."—M. W. S. in Books.

Jane Spence Southron, in the New York Times, has caught the pleasing spirit of this tale. Says she: "It is a book of spring. A young book, brimful of the spirit that animates the beginnings of life; the same spirit that breathes in the joyfulest of Shakespeare's lyrics, in so many of the medieval chansons to Mary and the Babe, in much of Shelley, and in the works of those writers who never wholely lose their sense of wonder at the beauty of creation. . . .

"It is a book that weaves for grownups the same sort of magic as was Hans Anderson's gift to nineteenthcentury children; or as was that of Lohengrin seen when you were nine. The philosophy of life explicit in the sayings and doings of many of its characters is as natural to it as perfume to a flower, and as acceptable."

One more review catches the mood of this book: "Nothing is harder to find, and nothing is better in its way when you have found it, than a pleasant book about nice people; and if, in addition to being amusing, it offers more plot than the usual light novel, and yet has always the comfortable assurance that everything will come right in the end, then it is a find indeed—like A City of Bells. . . . This is something more than a pleasant novel, for it has the romantic fault of improbability; it has in many passages great romantic beauty."—Basil Davenport in the Book-Of-The-Month Club News.

A City of Bells is what these critics have said of it—a delightful story, pleasant, sunny, joyous, clean. Not deep and heavy, not tragic and somber, not disgusting and sordid. In it are to be found clean people and a clean outlook on life that is wholesome and bright.
