
Vol. XVIII MARCH, 1931 No. 3
EDITORIAL
Our Mother Tongue
One of the graces and the delights of a public speaker and conversationalist is a knowledge of and a correct use of his mother tongue. To have a large vocabulary and to pronounce words correctly is very desirable. Few people give the time and attention that they could and should to increasing their vocabulary and learning the correct pronunciation of words. Some carry too far the feeling of their inability to speak as perfectly as they would like to, however, and lose golden opportunities of growth. We heard of a woman recently who was afraid to give a lesson in Relief Society lest she might mispronounce a word. College graduates and even professors are not entirely free from errors in this line. The procedure which one woman followed who had a remarkable knowledge of words might profitably be followed by others. When asked how it was that she knew how to spell, pronounce, define and use accurately so many words, she replied, "Whenever I come across an unfamiliar word, I look it up, impress it upon my memory, and make it mine. Then as soon as possible, I use it. If an educated person pronounces a word differently from what I am used to, I look it up to see which pronunciation is correct." Her extensive range of words was a delight to her family and to all who conversed with her. Let us learn more of our mother tongue.
174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Our Anniversary Celebration
It is a desirable thing to fittingly observe anniversaries. We hope every society will enjoy a special program on March 17. Such occasions offer excellent opportunity to portray the first organization, to graphically show what it entailed, to follow the history of the organization from its genesis to the present, and to honor those who have been instrumental in carrying on the great work in times past. Since 1842, when the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, countless thousands have been benefited by it?some by help extended in time of need, but the majority by working in its varied activities. Those who have administered to the sick, the dying, the sorrowing, the needy, the distressed, have learned the joy of service. Those who have studied the lessons offered have realized the joy of communing with great works of literature and studying great problems and seeking to solve them. The growth of the Relief Society has been marked?from 18 at the first meeting to more than 62,000 at the present time. At first, its membership consisted largely of elderly women. Now, the young like to join, participate in its courses of study, and serve. Once, no study courses were offered; now it is realized that to give abundantly, one must store up abundantly. The richer and fuller her own life, the more she has to give to the distressed and needy. Let those who have served the Relief Society and are out of office at the present time, be not forgotten. We urge our officers to invite them personally to any special affairs the Relief Society may give, and especially to the 17 of March celebration. Let those who have presided over the work in wards and stakes in times past be greeted most warmly and given seats of honor. It is a good thing to vary the routine of the program by something different, so appoint your committees early. Let them plan carefully that March 17 may be a red letter event in our season's activities.
John Q. Cannon
Our sympathy goes out to those who are called upon to mourn the death of John Q. Cannon. His wife, Annie Wells Cannon, and his sister, Rosannah Cannon Irvine, are two of the General Board's most valued members. Sister Cannon has been a wonderful wife and mother. She is blessed in being the mother of twelve children, only one preceded the father to the great beyond. She and her husband were most congenial, enjoying literature and the fine things of life together. In his editorial work (he was editor of the "Deseret News") she was a constant help to him. She will have many happy memories of their long life together and great satisfaction in knowing that she always helped and encouraged him in his work.
A Period of Stress and Strain
Many have been going through a period of stress and strain. Financial difficulties have caused them to endure sleepless nights and anxious
EDITORIAL
days. Now the strain is beginning to lighten, and as people look back they realize that the big thing was not so much what they have had to
175
pass through, but how they have met it. Seneca has his pilot say, "Oh, Neptune, you may save me if you will; you may sink me if you will; but whatever happens, I shall keep my rudder true." Those who have kept their rudder true, who have maintained their integrity, and have met their difficulties squarely, will emerge from the furnace as gold purified by fire. They will have been made stronger and more steadfast by the struggle.
The First Relief Society (March 17, 1842)
By Jeanette McKay Morrell
Their hearts aflame With love of fellow-men, In His dear name, They pledged their honor then, His elect to be;
The key was turned, The portals opened wide And those who yearned, And longed, and prayed, and cried, Found themselves free?
With flag unfurled, To march, with might and mind, First in the world, Of glorious woman kind With this equality.
Their sincerity attest? They brought their jewels rare, And everything the best, With those less fortunate to share At the first gentle plea.
Auspicious day! From that first morn 'til now, They've led the way; Kept sacred every vow; And justified the trust.
Their duties these: To seek poor suffering souls Their pain to ease To urge them toward new goals On Life's broad sea.
Love of God, the very essence of religion, was always with me. I never doubted the Lord's existence, his goodness or his power. When in trouble my first thought was to pray to him. I did not share the notion, expressed by some of my fellows, that "the Lord doesn't want us to bother him about every little thing." I have never believed that we trouble our Heavenly Father by craving blessings at his hand. Prayer is an expression of faith, and the exercise of faith, whereby comes spiritual development, is one of the great objects and privileges of this earthly existence, our "second estate," where we "walk by faith," as before we "walked by sight." I believed then and believe now, that God's ear is as open to the pleadings of a little child, as to the prayers of the congregation or the shouts of armies going into battle?"Through Memory's Halls," by Orson F. Whitney.

