BASHFUL GIANT Photo By Cottam.
Money Value
By Nelle Allen Talmage
Ten o'clock in the morning and the thermometer stood at 85°, but the lowering thunder clouds made it seem much higher! "Gee, it's hot!" and for the teenth time that morning Gertrude Allen wiped her face with a soiled powder puff. Gertrude was secretary to Miss Hurley of District 32 of the Family Welfare Association. All morning she had struggled with a budget list for a family of five. "Why do people want to eat on a day like this?" she grumbled to herself, Although she could think of a hundred things she would rather do she worked on so as to provide full value for the little money at their disposal for the many needy ones. She worked steadily for at least ten minutes, and then she felt rather than heard some one standing before her. She looked up. "Good da morn," a little Italian woman with an old young face tried a droopy smile. Gertrude, accustomed to seeing such visitors, said wearily, "Miss Hurley hasn't come yet. Will you wait or can I be of any service to you?" "You good da girl. I am so— so," and she tapped her throat and sighed deeply, "what you say— what you say—starve. I starve; my bambino starve. No worka—see—" she thrust out two dirty hands, gnarled, wrinkled, shaking as with palsy. "See, no worka for me. No worka for heem. Heem sick. We starve." As she spoke tears streamed down the furrows of her cheeks. Then more calmly and with a shrug, "For me,—I do notta care. For heem, is sick and my bambinos—one, two. And see, soon another—poor, poor bambino! What we do?" "If you will tell me your name and address I'll have Miss Hurley take care of you as soon as she comes in. You understand I can't do anything without Miss Hurley." And Gertrude took up a pad of paper and raised questioning eyes. "Your name, please?" "My nama ees Carmella Meneghini." "What is your husband's name?" "Tony — Antonio — ees hees name." And a loving lilt was in her voice. "And you live?" "4335 Marcosti Street. Oop high oop the stairs." "Miss Hurley expects to call on two other families on that street this morning so she will be in to see you." And as the woman made no move to go, she added, "Good bye, she will take care of you shortly." "Good da bye? No, no! I canna da go. Heem starve! Bambinos starve! No fooda!" And in a half fainting condition she swayed,— caught hold of a chair, steadied herself and convulsively sobbed, "I canna da go! I canna da go!" Poor Gertrude. It was her first experience with such cases. It was true that she had heard of them from Miss Hurley. But Miss Hurley had told her that the saddest cases came in the winter time when so many were without work. What should she do? There stood a poor soul, hungry, grimy, sweaty and emitting an offensive smell, sobbing, "Heem sick! Bambinos starve!" Oh, how Gertrude wished that Miss
MONEY
Hurley would come! It was seldom that she was late but she did say that she was going to see about the sheriff's notice to old Mr. Gramstaulk before coming today. She might not be in until nearly noon! The cries became shriller. She must do something! "Let's see," she thought, "I've heard Miss Hurley say many times, 'Relieve the immediate need, and then investigate.' The immediate need was food. Food! Lunch! Why, her lunch which she had packed that morning! But how far would two tiny sandwiches, two cookies, and an orange go to keep a family from starving? At least it would help one person. The woman could eat it right there. She took the package from her desk and opened it. "Mrs. Meneghini, come, you are wearing yourself out with grief. Take this. Eat it now and Miss Hurley will come in time to help your family. Here— I've opened it for you. Here, eat." Carmella took her hands down from her face and looked ravenously at the tiny sandwiches. Timidly she touched one as if to see if it was real; then clutching the package in one hand, she grasped the arm of her benefactor. "Ave Maria, may she bless you," and she started to the door. "But," called Gertrude, "you should eat it now." "No, no, heem sick, heem starve. Bambino starve. Me! Me, big da strong." And, calling down blessings from heaven upon Gertrude's head, she staggered out. Gertrude did not feel self righteous at having given up her luncheon. It was too hot to eat anyway. And, oh, how glad she was to get rid of the poor creature. The morning passed as others did. Telephone calls from
VALUE 163
women asking help for their neighbors who were in need. Calls from priests and ministers reporting the needy ones in their flocks. Mrs. Jones, a friendly visitor, came in for a minute from the torrid heat of the streets. Miss Hurley came in close to eleven o'clock, read over the two records on Marcosti Street; obtained the new name and left again, so as to clear up the work and have the afternoon free for the meeting with the Neighborhood Committee. Lunch time passed, but Gertrude did not go out as that would leave the office alone. She was a healthy young woman and a big drink of water sufficed for luncheon that day without any undue suffering. Other days came with their regular routine and when a few weeks later Miss Hurley asked her if she would like to make a friendly call on Mrs. Meneghini to see how they were getting along, she had to read over the report to refresh her memory of the original plea for help. Another hot wave had come; and, as Gertrude climbed the dark stairways of the tenement, kicking each stair before stepping so as to make sure there was one, the heat seemed unbearable. Flies buzzed around her head, and the odor of garlic, stale tobacco smoke and nauseating booze hung heavy in the unventilated and unlighted halls. From doorways on the landings she heard fretful wailing of puny infants or a snarl from a disgruntled man, and, overhead, above it all, a clear sweet voice—so out of place! A man's voice in Italian singing opera arias! It lifted one from the low hung atmosphere into clear mountain air! A grating, rasping sound—and the song was ended. Gertrude had reached the floor where the Meneghinis lived and was about to tap on the door when the singing voice began again. There
164
was no doubt now; it was Caruso. A record—cracked, she was sure, by the break now and then in the song. She listened a moment and then knocked. With a rasp the phonograph stopped and a voice called, "And who ees eet wanta to see me?" "I am Miss Allen from the Family Welfare." The door opened and the little woman grimier than ever peered out. "Oh, yessa, da lovely lady. Come ain. I see you again. Come a in." And white teeth flashed in greeting. "You musta heer da greata Caruso. He greata da man." She paused and made a grimace of pain, clutching a chair as she did so. Then, very apologetically, "You see, another bambino about to come. It hurta me. But you must heer da greata Caruso. When heem seeng da pain notta hurt so bad." And she placed the needle back on the disc and set it revolving. At the first strain of the opera, Pagliacci, her face lighted with joy and heaven shone from her eyes. "Ah, Ave Maria," and she crossed herself. Again a spasm of pain took possession of her. Gertrude became anxious. "You must have a doctor right away. Where is your husband?" Gertrude had become the practical woman. "Tony"—again the love lilt as she spoke his name,—"Antonio—heem work. Heem buy me thees," (pointing to the phonograph) "weeth hees first money. Heem worka, one, two, tree days. Heem buy me Caruso and thees—" and she lifted from the table a broken bottle holding a wilted la france rose. With adoring eyes she looked at it and whispered, "Ah eet ees so lovely." But again pain changed the face and made it old, oh, so old. Gertrude appreciated the love Carmella had for beauty but she knew that skillful practical atten-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tion would be needed before long. "Yes, yes," she said a trifle impatiently, "but where is a doctor?" "No mona for a docta. Tony, he musta worka." "But who will look after you? You will need help soon!" "Ah you are heer. You helpa me?" "But I do not know how. Let me go for a doctor." Not waiting for a reply Gertrude hurried down the stairs and raced through the streets, stinking with rotting fruit, to the nearest dispensary. She must have help for the suffering woman; and as she sped, following, floating through the air came the golden voice of Caruso. She was fortunate to find a student doctor at the dispensary. Within a quarter of an hour after leaving the room, Gertrude and the young man, stumbled and groped their way back up the stairs. And ever Caruso sang! The baby was born before they got there. The mother lay on a dirty bed, listening raptly to the music. An old crone from the neighboring room slunk out as the doctor came in. The phonograph ran down, but Gertrude and the doctor had not time to set the needle again. The beatific expression remained on the face of Carmella Meneghini. Over and over again she crooned, "Beautiful da music — listen! Beautiful the music. Ave Maria." The next day Carmella died; and Gertrude saw that the rose that she so loved was placed in her hand. The baby lived. His little brother and sister kept him covered with sticky kisses. At the next meeting of the Neighborhood Committee, the question of the Meneghini family was discussed. What should they do about the children, three of them? The father
MONEY VALUE
earned money spasmodically. If he could get a steady job they might be able to keep the family together. A white haired old man took the lead in the discussion. "Tony is a likeable chap. He works well. Of course he is untrained. I might get him a job as general man at my neighbor's place. Not much money, but, if he's careful, and, with a little help now and then, he could get along." Gertrude came into the room and respectfully waited for Miss Hurley to notice her. Her eyes lighted as she noted that her family, as she called Carmella's three, were to be taken care of. But immediately they
165
dulled as the most practical and wealthiest woman on the board exclaimed, "Humph, careful, indeed! Tony doesn't know the value of money. He'd spend his last cent on a worn out phonograph, a cracked record and a wilted rose." "Oh!" A cry of pain, with her whole heart in it, fell from Gertrude's lips. The practical one turned with a glare. She raised her glass and stared at Gertrude. Gertrude hurried from the room, and with her head buried on her desk, she sobbed, "Money value! Money value!"

