Our Birthday
By President Louise Y. Robison
March 17th is an eventful day to all Relief Society women, as it is the birthday of our organization. Birthdays are unusual days in our own lives, and in the lives of our friends. From childhood to old age the day is made happier because friends and loved ones, if we have lived sweetly or have contributed to the happiness of others, send gifts or loving greetings to express their regard for us. We lovingly remember the birth date of our friends, and no matter how far distant they are, we plan to have our greetings reach them on that day. Now we bring love and greetings to our Relief Society on its birthday. We commemorate this day with gratitude to our Heavenly Father that He graciously gave freedom and opportunity to His daughters. We deeply appreciate the support, encouragement and guidance of the Leaders of our Church, from our inspired Prophet Joseph Smith— who organized the Relief Society— to our President Heber J. Grant, whose counsel and interest are always a sustaining power. Although our records are well kept, there is no human power which can give an account of the deeds of loving kindness performed by our Relief Society members during the 89 years of its existence. The comfort given to the sorrowing, to the lonely, the relief to the distressed, and the friendless, are of sufficient value to justify its existence. In addition there are the educational opportunities available for our development. Think of the excellent training which sixteen hundred ward presidents receive, when each week they preside at meetings! To do so successfully means not only self control, but a sympathetic understanding of each member present, so that all may participate in the exercises. The intricate work of the secretaries, the committees who plan the details, the chorister and organist, who, by preparation and inspiration unite the hearts of those present in harmony and praise—the development along these lines alone would make the Relief Society a valuable asset in any community. There is still another opportunity offered. In our organization there are sixteen hundred studious teachers who each week prepare lessons from courses outlined in the Relief Society Magazine. We may add to this number the officers of each organization who must, of course, be prepared, and at least half of our membership who study these lessons. So we have thirty thousand women who are studying and discussing a systematic course of lessons each week. In our visiting teachers' department there are twenty thousand earnest, prayerful women, radiant with the joy of service, who visit the homes of the saints each month, carrying a Relief Society message of helpfulness and encouragement, at the same time accepting contributions in the name of our Society, to be used by the Presidents to relieve those in need. These great activities are planned and supervised by one thousand Stake Board members, and twenty-
144
three General Board members, who spend hours and days earnestly outlining lessons, visiting and encouraging this great organization. For all these opportunities the members are truly thankful and they gladly send their annual dues each year to carry their love and greetings to the organizations. We pledge our loyalty anew to you, Relief Society, and resolve to make better preparation for that special work we are asked to do.
"Who calls His glorious service hard? Who deems it not its own reward? Who for its trials counts it less, A cause for praise and thankfulness?
It may not be our lot to wield, A sickle in the ripening field, Nor ours to hear, on summer eves, The reapers song among the sheaves,
But where our duty's task is wrought, In unison with God's great thought,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The near and future blend in one, And whatso'er is willed is done.
And ours the grateful service Whence comes, day by day, the recompense. The wish, the hope, the purpose, stayed, The sunshine and the noon-day shade."
There is always a value in striving; always compensation for effort. When these efforts have an aim to relieve and bless, the result is a gain in priceless experience, and a growth in spiritual power.
"Better to stem, with heart and hand, The roaring tide of Life, Than lie, unmindful, on its flowery strand, Of God's occasions drifting by; Better, with naked nerve, to bear, The needles of a goading air, Than in the laps of sensual ease, Forget the God-like power to do, The God-like aim to know."


