[Vol30 | January 1943 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Secretary-Treasurer]

"In the South Ward an address of welcome was given by counselor
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, "THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" Woodruff Ward Relief Society, Snowflake Stake Jennie Hobbs. Former stake presidents, Addie Cazier, Unity Chappell, Maude Forrest, and Edna J. Cazier gave brief reports of the accomplishmerts of the Relief Society of Juab Stake under their respective administrations. A piano duet was given by Julia and Mignon Pyper, and Zelma Golden and Ida Memmott sang a duet. A centennial play 'Is It Possible?' was presented under the direction of Louise C. Vickers. Flowers were presented to the former stake and ward presidents and counselors, to the oldest visiting teacher, the youngest members of the Relief Society, and to the mother with the largest family. At the close of the program, refreshments were served. "The Mona Ward observed the - centennial by a social held in the afternoon for all women of the ward, at which time the record from the General Board was heard and birthday cake was served to all present. In the evening, the play 'Is it Possible?' and a pageant 'By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know Them' were presented by the women of the ward. The Singing Mothers furnished the music for the performance. The play and pageant were under the direction of Lizzie W. Kay and Erma Keyte." Snowflake Stake (Snowflake, Arizona) LOVINA E. LARSON, president of Woodruff Ward Relief Society, sent the accompanying picture of a beautiful and impressive pageant presented February 13, 1942, at the ward centennial celebration. It was entitled "The Gate Beautiful." 

 JANUARY 1943 SINGING MOTHERS' CHORUS, NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CAST OF CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, "MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS OF THE AGES," IDAHO FALLS FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho Falls, Idaho) ELLA A. EVANS, second counselor in the Relief Society presidency of the North Idaho Falls Stake, submitted the following report of centennial activities in this stake: "We wish to report to you some of the centennial activities of our stake. We presented the cantata 'Resurrection Morning,' by B. Cecil Gates, as a stake unit of one hundred Singing Mothers. The chorus furnished the music for our stake conference. The cantata, conducted by Mrs. O. D. Hendrickson with Mrs.. J. O. Mellor as accompanist, was presented Sunday afternoon, March 15, 1942, in the stake tabernacle. It was very well rendered to a large audience. We had members participating from eleven of the twelve wards and branchesone branch being sixty-three miles away. We held a prayer meeting with all chorus members before the concert, and then presented cach member with a golden boutonniere, and the chorister and organist with a blue and gold corsage. "At this meeting we displayed the scrapbooks made by eleven of our twelve wards and branches. In their arrangement the books showed much originality, artistic ability, and historical worth. A volume of Gospel Standards by President Heber J. Grant was presented, to the centennial chairman of the Ucon Ward as a prize for the best scrapbook. "On Monday, March 16, we left daffodils with twelve Latter-day Saint mothers, reminding them of the centennial observance the next day and of the time of the radio 51 broadcasts from Salt Lake City. From the interest shown by these mothers, we certainly felt well repaid for the calls we made. "On March 17, the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward held a special centennial program with President Luna Norton and counselors in charge of arrangements. Under the direction of Mrs. Jacob H. Trayner, with Mr. Trayner as reader, a pageant in twelve scenes, entitled 'Mothers and Daughters of the Ages,' was presented with special costumes and lighting effects to a full house. Mrs. J. O. Mellor, pianist, and Dorothy Burnham, violinist, rendered appropriate music during the pageant. Twenty-six persons represented the various characters portrayed. One scene showed a reproduction in giant size of the cover of the January 1942 issue of Reproduction of cover of January 1942
Relief Society Magazine, used in pageant by Idaho Falls Fourth Ward Relief Society 
 JANUARY 1943 CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING CEREMONY ON NEW IDAHO FALLS TEMPLE GROUNDS, NOVEMBER 4, 1942
Members and officials of the North Idaho Falls, Idaho Falls, and Yellowstone Stakes participated. The Relief Society Magazine, which was a picture of the proposed centennial memorial campanile to be erected on Temple Square in Salt Lake City. "The Osgood Ward made nearly 200 handprinted programs for their celebration. The entire evening performance in this ward was very fine and well presented. "All Relief Society organizations in our stake participated in a centennial tree-planting service in their respective wards, using the centen-.
Nial markers." On November 4, 1942, members and officials of the North Idaho Falls, Idaho Falls, and Yellowstone Stakes participated in a tree-planting ceremony at the new Idaho Falls Temple grounds. A beautiful blue spruce was planted on the northeast corner of the grounds, and a special marker was placed nearby. An excerpt from an account of this activity in the Idaho Falls Post-Register of November 12 states: The following program was presented: community singing conducted by Mrs. J. O. Mellor; invocation by Mrs. Grant M. Andrus; address of welcome by president Ethel Miles [North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society president]; selection by a trumpet trio composed of Don Julian, Ray Bennett and Fred Haroldsen; a talk, "Special Thoughts on Trees," by Mrs. Joseph Brunt; dedicatory prayer by Joseph A. Brunt. Mr. Brunt, representing the North Idaho Falls Stake, J. W. Telford, representing the Idaho Falls Stake, and Horace A.
Hess of the Yellowstone Stake,.
Assisted in placing the soil on the tree. Mrs. Miles, President Cora Christensen of the Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, past stake presidents, and honorary officers also participated NOTES FROM THE FIELD in the ceremonies. The program was under the direction -of Mrs. G. S. Evans, assisted by Robert F. Woller, temple gardener. Sister Evans stated in a subsequent letter of November 23 that, "We are very thankful to Brother Woller, the temple gardner, and Brother Irvin T. Nelson, Church landscape architect, for assisting us and granting us this privilege. We had had stormy weather for several days, but the morning [of November 4] was clear, although cold. The program was short but well attended by approximately 100 people, and everyone seemed thrilled with the occasion.
After the ceremony, the members who wished to go were escorted through the temple. We surely felt that the efforts were worth while." Seattle Stake (Seattle, Washington) HE Bremerton Ward Relief Society reported its centennial birthday party, held March 17, 1942, as follows: "The ward chapel and recreation hall were decorated in the Relief Society colorsblue and gold. The opening feature of the celebration was a tree-planting ceremony, at which time we planted a tree on the chapel grounds.
Appropriate remarks were made by Bishop John J. Fry, and the song "Trees was sung by Ruth Fry. "After this ceremony, everyone went into the chapel, where an impressive birthday cake held a place of attention, and a candle-lighting ceremony was given in honor of new members.. Our president, Chloe Later, presided, with Linda Eddington, second counselor, and Bertha 53 McCleary, coordinator, assisting her.
Each new member of the past year was presented with a lovely corsage. "Another feature of the evening's entertainment was a cantata entitled 'Messengers of Mercy,' by Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner, presented by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Sarah Hickman, with Mercia Haneberg as accompanist. A very lovely pageant, 'The Guardianship of Life,' was presented under the direction of Rose Willey and President Chloe Later. It had a cast of about twenty people. Violet Nerden, soloist, was accompanied by Alta Larson. Thelma Higbee was the reader. "One feature of the program, the words of greeting by recording from President Heber J.
Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman, was greatly appreciated. Ethelyn Lay and Chloe Stayner had charge of refreshments. 'The one hundred people present declared that the party was one of the loveliest ones of the year." Los Angeles Stake (Los Angeles, California) THE Beverly Hills Ward Relief Society, of which Estella C.
Dalton was president, presented a unique centennial program using letters, tableaux, and a cantata to depict "Relief Society Beginnings" and "A Century of Achievement." Helen Cottam, secretary, reported the observance as follows: "Letters narrating 'Relief Society Beginnings' were written for the occasion by one of our members, Isabel Vine Broadbeck.
They were tead by a reader dressed in a typical 1842 costume, who was shown writing them in her Nauvoo home. Be- tween the reading of each letter, our Relief Society chorus, assisted by Lola Brimley, director, Mary Rex, accompanist, and Jessie Turner, soloist, sang selections from the cantata 'Messengers of Mercy,' by Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner. In conjunction with the readings and the rendition of the cantata, tableaux in costume and with stage properties were, presented to show scenes related to the letters." An original poem, "A Century of Achievement," written by Alva Wilson, was given by two women, Emma Gardner representing Emma Smith, and Ruby Armstrong representing a modern Relief Society president.
This was given just before the final tableau depicting "Women of Service in 1942." Estella C. Dalton, former president, is now president of the Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, and Frances Willardson is president of the Beverly Hills Ward. South Sanpete Stake (Manti, Utah) CLARICE B. TUTTLE, former president of the South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, submitted a newspaper report of the very successful centennial observance held by the three wards of Manti, and also a report from the three Ephraim wards. The Manti Messenger contained the following account of the Manti celebration: Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday [March 15, 16, 17, 1942] were gala days for the Relief Society organizations of Manti, culminating years of untiring and ceaseless effort directed toward building a bigger and better organization, an effort which has been crowned with glorious success.
Officers and teachers have worked energetically to prepare the three-day celebration in honor of the centennial observance of the L. D. S. Relief Society.
Their efforts resulted in one of Manti's most elaborate celebrations, enjoyed by old and young of the entire community. Commencing Sunday night, a cantata, "Resurrection Morning," written by B. Cecil Gates, was presented to the general public by the Singing Mothers of the three wards, under the direction of Cleo Christensen, with Mrs. Louise Hulme at the piano. Mrs. Bernice B.
Keeler and Mrs. Leona F.
Wintch were the readers.
Before the cantata, Mrs. Clarice B. Tuttle...
Gave a speech of welcome. A salute to the Relief Society was given by President Leland E. Anderson, the response by Mrs. Merle Poulson, president of the Center Ward Relief Society. Mrs. Viola Tatton was in charge of decorations.
Monday afternoon a reception and program was held in the Center Ward Chapel, with so many in attendance that benches and chairs would not suffice. A fashion show depicting styles from 1842 to 1942 was directed by Mrs. Ruby K. Riddle.... Mrs. Alfreda Nielson was in charge of the music and refreshments.
Monday night a married folks' dance was held in the Armada. It was one of the biggest dances of the year, and one of the most enjoyable.
Many of the dancers came in costumes, which varied in kind and color from the humble overall to the dignified Prince Albert, and from the house dress of years gone by to the colorful gown of the gay nineties.
Tuesday morning, a throng of people visited the temple, where the Singing Mothers furnished the music.
Tuesday afternoon and evening in the Manti Theatre a pageant, "By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know Them," written by Moroni Smith of Richfield, was presented. Mrs. Ada Dyreng was in charge of the pageant, assisted by Mrs. Edna Allred and Mrs. Blanche Garbe.
Taking part in the pageant were sixty people.
Singing for the pageant was done by the Singing Mothers directed by Mrs. Cleo Christensen. The three-day Ephraim observance was also very successful. The first session was held Sunday evening, March 15, in the tabernacle, under the direction of Anna Rasmusson 

 JANUARY 1943 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 35 FIRST EPISODE OF PAGEANT, "BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM," MANTI WARDS, SOUTH SANPETE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Leona F, Wintch, Relief Society General Board member, is in front row, center, representing Emma Smith; on her right is Winston Crawford representing Joseph Smith e FOURTH EPISODE OF PAGEANT, "BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM," INCLUDING SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG FOR THE PAGEANT of the stake board. Seventy-five Singing Mothers wearing white blouses made an impressive sight when they sang "Resurrection Morning." They were assisted by Melba Armstrong, conductor, and Phylis Armstrong, accompanist. 'The stage setting was appropriate for the rendition of the cantata. The bishops of the Ephraim North, South and West Wards offered the prayers and also assisted backstage. Under the direction of Olivia Anderson of the stake board, general chairman, the activities on Monday afternoon featured a relic display, modeling of old hats and costumes of long ago, dancing of the minuet, and singing of old-time songs. "Sister-cake" with its cardamon flavor, peppermint candy, dried apples, and punch were served by ladies in costume. Tuesday, March 17, members from the Ephraim West Ward attended the morning session at the Manti Temple. In the afternoon, three inspirational episodes were enacted under the supervision of Vera Erickson of the stake board. They were: first, dramatization of the organization meeting of Relief Society; second, an episode emphasizing the importance of attendance at Relief Society, in which was dramatized the story of two young women who never 'found time to support Relief Society; and, third, a pantomime of nations coming through a membership arch. After this episode, candles on a centennial cake were lighted. This cake was made of seven pounds of popcorn. According to the report from the Ephraim wards, the costs incurred in conducting this three-day celebration were very low. Anna Rasmusson is now president of the South Sanpete Stake. CENTENNIAL CANDLE-LIGHTING CEREMONY Brigham City Third Ward Relief Society, Box Elder Stake 
 JANUARY 1943 DEPARTMENT Sheology and Sestimony "Articles of Faith," By James E. Talmage Lesson 15
The Book of Mormon (Continued) Article 8: "... We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God." (Tuesday, April 6, 1943) Condensation of Chapter XV of Articles of Faith by Talmage (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) The Authenticity of the Book of Mormon The authenticity of the Book of Mormon constitutes our most important consideration of the work.
Announcing to the.
World the message of a departed people, written by way of commandment, and by the spirit of prophecy and revelation, this book is entitled to the most thorough and impartial examination. The Latter-day Saints base their belief in the authenticity of the book on the following proofs which will be discussed: 1. The Nephite and the Jewish scriptures are found to agree in matters of tradition, history, doctrine, and prophecy which the separate records treat. In a careful comparison of the prophecies of the Bible with corresponding predictions contained in the Book of Mormon, each of the records is corroborative of the other. 2.
Ancient prophecy has been literally fulfilled in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. Enoch (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:59- 62), David (Psalms 85:11), Isaiah (Isaiah 45:8), and Ezekiel (Ezekiel 37), as well as other prophets knew and prophecied of the book. Ezekiel 37:15-17, reads: "The word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions [signifying the Bible]: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions [signifying the Book of Mormon]: And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand." 3. The internal consistency of the Book of Mormon sustains belief in Page 57 its divine origin. The parts bear evidence of having been written at different times and under widely varying conditions. The book maintains consistency throughout; no contradictions, no disagreements have been pointed out. 4.
Among the most conclusive proofs of the authenticity of the book is that furnished by the demonstrated truth of its contained prophecies. The predictions contained within the Book of Mormon may be classed as (a) prophecies relating to the time covered by the book itself, the fulfillment of which is recorded therein; and (b) prophecies relative to times beyond the limits of the history chronicled in the book.
Prophecies of the first class named are of minor value as proof of the authenticity of the work; nevertheless, to the conscientious reader the genuineness of the book will be made apparent in the literal realization of the numerous and varied predictions relating to the fate, then future, of the people whose history is given in the record.
Prophecies of the second class are numerous and explicit.
Many of them have special reference to this last dispensationthe Dispensation of the Fullness of Times.
Among the most remarkable Book of Mormon predictions incident to the last dispensation are those that relate to its own coming forth and the effect of its publication amongst mankind. Joseph's great prophetic utterance is to be found in part in II Nephi 3:11-13. The literal fulfillment of this prophecy in the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon through Joseph Smith is well evidenced.
That the new scriptures would be rejected by the Gentiles was known by Nephi, who recorded this: "A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible." (II Nephi 29:3; read the entire chapter.) 5. The archeology and ethnology of the Western Continent contribute some corroborative evidence in support of the Book of Mormon.
Among the most significant of the discoveries respecting the aboriginal inhabitants of the land, are the following: (a) that America was peopled in very ancient times, probably soon after the building of the Tower of Babel; (b) that the continent has been successfully occupied by different peoples, at least by two classes, or so-called races, at widely separated periods; (c) that the aboriginal inhabitants came from the East, probably from Asia, and that the latter occupants, or those of the second period, were closely allied to, if not identified with, the Israelites; (d) that the existing native races of America form a common stock. It is very apparent that each of these discoveries is fully sustained by the Book of Mormon record. Let not the reader of the Book of Mormon content himself with such evidences as have been cited concerning the authenticity of this reputed scripture.
There is promised a surer and more effectual means of ascertaining the truth or falsity of this volume.
Like other scriptures, the Book of Mormon is to be comprehended through the spirit of the scripture, and this is obtainable only as a gift from God. But this gift is promised unto all who shall seek it.
Then to all let us commend the counsel of the last writer in the volume, Moroni, solitary scribe who
 JANUARY 1943
LESSON DEPARTMENT
sealed the book: "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with
59
real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." (Moroni 10:4-5)
LESSON PLAN
Lesson Aim: To prove the authenticity of the Book of Mormon
Suggested Material Outline
I. Proofs of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon A. Agreement of the Bible and the Book of Mormon
1. Records agree in matters of tradition, history, doctrine and prophecy (See Appendix 14:5) B. Prophecies concerning the Book of Mormon
2. Ezekiel's vision most significant (Ezekiel 37)
3. Isaiah's prediction literally fulfilled (Isaiah 29:11-12) C. Internal construction of the Book of Mormon This concerns the doctrinal unity of the book, its consistency of language, its general harmony and Joseph Smith's inability to compose such a work without divine help. D. Book of Mormon predictions
4. Prophecies fulfilled in the Book of Mormon
5. Future prophecies not yet fulfilled (See II Nephi 3:11-13; II Nephi 29 E. Archaeology of the Western Continent
6. Value of external evidence Sometimes we are inclined to lay too much stress on external evidence, as if it were conclusive, whereas it only shows a tendency in the direction of the truth of personal testimony.
7. Evidence of American antiquities a. Civilization here before discovery of America by Columbus b. This civilization comparable to that which existed in the Old World c. Monuments are found where Book of Mormon requires them to be d. Evidences of successive civilizations in ancient America F. The classes of American aborigines (1.) Archaic (2.) Toltec-Mayan (3.) Aztec
Suggested Method Outline
I. It is suggested that class members who are capable and who do research well, be assigned, at least a month in advance of presentation, the five major sections of this lesson outline. In making such assignments, it is suggested that the class leader bear in mind the following procedure: A. Enough time should be spent with the class member assigned the task to make the assignment very clear. If necessary, the assignment should be written out by the class leader, and then the member should be given time to ask questions concerning her assignment. B. Class leaders should make the time limit explicit. This is very important if the lesson is fully covered in the time allotted. C. Class leaders should be responsible for seeing that material for use in the preparation of assignments is available. D. Some follow-through on the assignment should be made by the class leader to check on the progress of each assignment, and this should be done before the actual day of presentation. II. Class leaders should allow themselves time to summarize the major points of the lesson in order to make a unified whole and to increase learning. Part of this summary could be gathered from the class by skillful questioning. (Consult any book on teaching methods for help on how to formulate questions. If a blackboard is available, it would be helpful to list thereon the major points covered in the lesson.)
References Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Talks. Thompson, E. H., People of the Serpent. Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, "Appendix" 15, Notes Relating to Chap.