[Vol30 | January 1943 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Message of Presidency]
NOTES TO THE FIELD 43
Message of First Presidency Published In Booklet Form
THE message from the First Presidency delivered in the Tabernacle, Saturday, October 3, 1942, during the opening session of the 113th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church, has been published in convenient booklet form, size 3x4", and distributed to Latter-day Saint families throughout the Church, to missionaries, and to Latter-day Saint men in the service. The General Board expresses its appreciation to the First Presidency for making this important message available in such convenient and attractive form. Relief Society members are urged to read the message carefully and thoughtfully, and it is suggested that mothers discuss it with their families. The counsel and guidance given on drink and the Word of Wisdom, chastity, parenthood, unity, and the war are of vital importance to us today. The message to the men in the armed service, and the blessing, commendation, and comfort given to officers and members of the Church are of inestimable worth.
Relief Society Presidents to Encourage Use of New Book, "Recreation in the Home"
RELIEF SOCIETY presidents are requested to cooperate in the distribution and use of the new book "Recreation in the Home" recently published by the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Coming at a time when the use of automobiles is restricted and when other conditions incident to the war make it necessary for us to be resourceful and economical in our recreational activities, the book meets a present-day need. It contains many new games and many old favorites, and is fertile in suggestions for many other types of recreation. Games and other activities included in the book can be played and enjoyed by large and small groups of all ages, with a minimum amount of equipment, work, and expense required. To aid in the distribution and use of the book, ward Relief Society presidents are asked to announce its publication at one of the regular Relief Society meetings, preferably a work-and-business meeting, calling attention to its content and its value for use in the home and for larger groups. It is also recommended that the book be used in planning Relief Society parties or other social activities, thus demonstrating its value. Relief Society officers and members should not only know that there is such a book, but should own and use it. "Recreation in the Home" may be purchased from the Relief Society General Board, 28
Bishop's Building, or from the general offices of the other Church auxiliary organizations. Price 25 cents, postpaid.
The Mormon Handicraft Shop
THE Mormon Handicraft Shop is your shop, established to help Relief Society women. Are you supporting it? There are three ways in which you can help the Shop: First, the Shop must have articles to sell, such as pillowcases with lovely white crocheted edges, quilts, attractive aprons, exquisite clothing for babies, useful hot pads, fine handkerchiefs, etc. When articles are beautifully made, of suitable, good material, and of desired colors, they will sell readily. The Shop can now use many such articles. You can encourage women to make these lovely articles to be sold. Have you found that lonely sister or the one who is homebound and have you encouraged her to make some lovely and useful article? This interest would mean a great deal in her life. How about the sister who needs to help herself financially, who would appreciate having a little extra money of her own to spend? This is made possible by sending her articles to be sold. The second way in which you may help the Shop is to buy there whenever possible. When you need a distinctive handmade gift, reasonably priced, it can be found at the Shop. Remember, this is a day of advertising. Never miss an opportunity to tell your neighbors and friends about Mormon Handicraft. Third, you may help the Shop by paying the annual membership fee of $1. Many of our wards are paying this yearly fee, and in so doing are helping to support this worthy project. May we add your ward to our list of Mormon Handicraft supporters? We feel, especially, that wards in close proximity to the Shop should support it in every possible way.
Auxiliary Leaders Protest Picturization of Smoking and Drinking
UNDER date of November 14, 1942, the following letter signed by the general presidencies and superintendencies of the Church auxiliary organizations, was sent to Mr. Will H. Hays, of the nation's film industry, protesting the picturization of smoking, drinking, and vulgarity in films. These auxiliary leaders represent a total active membership of 747,688 men, women, and children. The increasing use in motion pictures of tobacco and alcoholic beverages is alarming, and it is in recognition of the effect of this upon youth that the auxiliary leaders ask that an effort be made to eliminate these items from the films as far as possible:
Mr. Will H. Hays 28 West 44th Street New York, New York
Dear Mr. Hays:
For some time the auxiliary organizations of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been alarmed at the increasing use in motion pictures of alcoholic beverages and tobacco. By the constant presentation of drinking and smoking on the screen the wholesome resistance of youth and childhood is being broken down.
November 14, 1942
 JANUARY 1943
NOTES TO THE FIELD 45
Drama is one of the cultural fields with which we have full sympathy and in which some of our organizations work extensively among the young people. We know of the immense influence of dramatic representation on the human mind. It is conceded that in some situations the use of tobacco and liquor might legitimately give a truer picture of life, although our own standards lead us to ban these articles from the stage. Incidentally, we have been pleased to see that plays do not suffer thereby. A talented group of professional and amateur players recently put on "The Man Who Came to Dinner," without smoking, drinking, profanity or vulgarity, and without lessening, strange as it may seem, the humor in the slightest. We know, therefore, that a great decrease in the use of tobacco and alcohol on the stage can be accomplished if there is the will to do it, and we earnestly petition you to set standards that will reduce these harmful things to the minimum. Although most states, perhaps all, have statutes forbidding the use of tobacco or alcoholic drinks by minors, yet whenever a drink is taken in a play, or cigarette lighted, especially by actors who represent to the young patrons almost everything desirable in life, a definite impact is made on their resistance to observe the law. The liquor and tobacco interests know the power of such example and of course do everything to extend the use of these articles in the business of the play. It is most unfortunate that the great institution of motion pictures, with its immeasurable educational and character forming influence, should be used to promote this evil. That is truly a breach of its great trust. Our responsibility to childhood and youth besides giving them the spiritual training to prepare them for eternal life, includes the endeavor to help them be healthy, temperate, upright and clean. Alcohol and tobacco, with their degenerative effects endanger both objectives. We commend you for all the fine things that you have donethe elimination of profanity, for example. And now in the name of our youth and of all American youth we appeal to you, who bear so much moral responsibility in this phase of our recreational life, to look into this situation and answer to your conscience as the good American that you are. We believe the wrong done to impressionable young people will tend to debauch individuals and bring about a poorer grade of American manhood and womanhood. Those who love America will support you in the action we plead with you to take.
GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY, By Amy Brown Lyman, President, Representing 115,015 mothers
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENCY OF THE SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION, By George D. Pyper, General Superintendent, Representing 360,337 members of all ages.
GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF THE YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASS'N., By Lucy Grant Cannon, President, Representing 76,867 young women.
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENCY OF THE YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASS'N. By George O. Morris, General Superintendent, Representing 65,511 young men
GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF THE PRIMARY ASS'N., By May Green Hinckley, Superintendent, Representing 129,958 children and teachers.
