[Vol30 | January 1943 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Growth of Parties]
Social Science What "America" Means
Lesson 7 Growth of Political Parties in America (Tuesday, April 27, 1943)
"He serves his party best, who serves his country best." Rutherford B. Hayes
"A thing to be remembered by every man who wishes to make his influence felt for good in our politics is that he must act purely as an American.... If we wish to do good work for our country, we must be unselfish, disinterested, sincerely desirous of the well-being of the commonwealth, and capable of a devoted adherence to a lofty ideal." Theodore Roosevelt
WHEN George Washington was elected President of the United States in 1789, there were no political parties. At the beginning of the Revolutionary War, the people had divided into Whigs and Tories, or Patriots and Loyalists, but the result of the war had been final, and during the discussion and ratification of the Constitution of the United States, there had been Federalists and Anti-Federalists; the adoption of the Constitution, however, seemed to end the existence of the latter. Nevertheless, there were groups and cleavages from which parties would arise in time.
There were the frontier and the settled states along the Atlantic seaboard; the rich and the poor; the agricultural and commercial classes; those who believed in a strong central government and those who stood for the fullest possible sovereignty of the different states; those who believed that the Constitution should be interpreted as strictly as possible and those who wished to give its clauses the widest possible interpretation. But on April 30, 1789, when the inauguration of Washington occurred, there were no party organizations.
Washington thus had a clear field from which to make his appointments, and he believed that the presidency should not be a partisan office. When President Washington organized his cabinet, among the prominent men that he called to office were Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, the former becoming Secretary of State and the latter, Secretary of the Treasury. In the different political theories of these two men, one discovers the cleavages from which our two great modern political partiesRepublican and Democratarose. No two men could have been more different, both in character and in views as to what government should be in the newly organized nation.
Hamilton was born in the West Indies and as a young boy landed in New York with his fortune to make. He studied law and married into a wealthy New York family and became a leading figure in the state. He had a brilliant mind and an attractive personality.
Jefferson was born on the frontier in Virginia. While Hamilton lived among the moneyed classes of New York, Jefferson was influenced by the people of the country life. He had complete faith in the wisdom of what we call "the common man."
Hamilton believed in a strong central government, while Jefferson believed that government should be left to the people within their respective states as far as possible.
Hamilton stood for a high protective tariff, a tax to protect the manufacturing industries of America.
Jefferson believed that the tax or tariff on foreign goods made articles more expensive, and he radically opposed any tax on foreign goods. One can readily see that three great problems soon confronted the American people.
They were: (1) Shall negro slavery be eliminated? (2) Shall a high protective tariff be maintained on imported goods? (3) Do the individual states have rights and powers over and above those granted by the Federal Government?
Along these lines the American people took sides, and were grouped principally in two political camps, which eventually emerged into our major parties of today. The political parties of our national history grew out of the devergent geographical conditions of the country, for these conditions were conducive of conflicting economic or industrial interests.
Cold winters and poor rock soil made most of the area of New England unsuited to extensive agriculture, but the abundant water power, proximity to the raw products of the West, and the skilled labor which that section always had, gave it extensive commercial and industrial advantages.
After the War of 1812, aided by a high protective tariff, the industrial development of New England was rapid.. On the other hand, geographical conditions in the South were most favorable to the development of agticulture. The Southern people always complained that the tariff laws of the Government not only restricted trade in the South, but increased the price of manufactured goods. Then, too, the cotton indus-. Try of the Southern States fostered the growth of negro slavery, an institution which the Northern States came to abhor.
Each section, therefore, was eager for political power, and during the years from 1780, when our Government was organized, down to the Civil War (1861- 1865), great statesmen lived to fight courageously for the political ideals which they held to be right.
Such men were Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Henry Clay, Andrew Jackson, Abraham Lincoln, Stephen A. Douglas, Jefferson Davis, and many others. It has been said that "the history of political parties in America 

 JANUARY 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT is a history of great statesmen, who though differing with their colleagues stood' shoulder to shoulder in demanding that they be in very truth Americans." BRIEF survey will help the reader to understand the history of the two major parties in our political development. From Thomas Jefferson's administration (1801-9) to 1825, the Democratic-Republicans were in power. 'They followed pretty much the policies of Jefferson. In 1825, this party dropped the name Republican, and took the name of Jacksonian Democrats, after Andrew Jackson. A new party was formed to oppose Jackson, which in 1830 took the name of Whigs. From 1830 to 1850, when slavery, states rights, and the tariff became 'bones of contention, the Whig Party gradually grew in power, and out of it came the Republican Party, which elected Abraham Lincoln in 1860. The differences between the interests of the Southern States and those of the Northern States were partly settled by the War of the Rebellion, and since the restoration of the nine 'states which seceded in 1861, there has steadily grown a better understanding of peoples living in different sections of our country.
Since the Civil War, the most important phase of the development of our country has been our widespread activities in industry, which have revolutionized manufacturing, agriculture, transportation, and mining. A great machine age has changed our social lives. The power supplied by man's muscle or by that of his domestic animals has been supplemented by steam, electricity, and 7) gasoline. The use of this power aided in the production of great wealth, for manufacturing plants grew in size and were consolidated into larger industries.
Trusts were organized; and, because of their tendency to monopolize the industries, the Government found it necessary to attempt legislation. In the larger factories, thousands of laborers were employed, each of whom was engaged in some detailed process of production in which expensive machinery was used.
This caused the control of industry to pass from the hands of the worker and led labor to organize.
Following the war between the North and the South, high tariffs have enabled great industrial corporations to develop more rapidly.
Organized labor sought to increase wages, reduce hours of employment, and secure better sanitary conditions.
Here you have the foundation for the differences of opinion between capital and labor. We learn a useful lesson in the study of political parties in our national history.
Every man who wishes well of his country is in honor bound to take an active interest in political life. A man who wishes to do good in his community may do so by going into active political life. One can always find men who are desirous of good government, and who if they act together, become at once a power on the side of righteousness. One word more. It concerns our present problems. The present is an introduction to the future. A present problem left unsolved will ripen into a future crisis.
With nearly all the world ablaze, it will require the American people to give to their country a united support in conquering those powers that are determined to destroy all that is sacred and secure in our democracy.
Questions and Topics for Discussion Note: An ordinary manual or onevolume history of the United States will give brief information on the history of political parties. In your class work, talk over some of the important subjects suggested in this lesson.
