[Vol30 | January 1943 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Symphony of the Snow Fletcher]
Symphony of the Snow Linda S. Fletcher Third Prize
Allegro Artists' hands have opened up, And floating from them down to earth Comes Pavlova, with her ballet, In a dainty dance of mirth. Swirling, whirling on tiptoe, Silent as the stars' chorale, Sylphs glide on, to strains unheard The melody of gay snowfall.
Allegretto On they pass; the tempo now Changes, while Cellinis trim The setmold ghostly Spring On trees. A-down waft seraphim With jeweled coverlet to veil A man-scarred world from scrutiny Of Heaven's facethus hide, awhile A desolating agony.
Andante For a brief moment earth again Knows Edeninnocence and peace; The heaped-up mounds consigned to dust Are covered o'er; the clangors cease. In the white sky an unseen host Joins in a requiem sublime To mark the groaning world's travail On the Eternal's tome of time.
Coda Earth soon will know the end of woe, When clad in amaranthine bloom, Her purity like to the snow, She ne'er again will hold a tomb!
EXCERPT FROM "HOW CLIMATE MAKES THE MAN"
"...People in the tropics seldom wear out or break down; they die largely from infectious and parasitic diseases. "In temperate coolness it is a breakdown in our combustion machinery which is bringing greatest worry to the medical profession. This involves particularly the heart and blood vessels, since on them falls the direct load of transporting food and oxygen to the body tissues and of removing the waste products and useless heat. Heart failure is predominantly a problem of cool climates. "Energetic Northerners thus should regard stress of life as a major danger and health hazard, especially after passing the forty-year mark. They should be careful about increasing the stress upon body machinery by lack of proper sleep and relaxation or through the use of caffeine which makes every tissue in the body work harder. I personally feel that overuse of this drug (the active principle of coffee, tea, and cola beverages) is today doing more damage among the active Americans of middle temperate latitudes than any other single factor in life. Over-use of tobacco probably runs a close second."
From a General Electric "Science Forum" Program, reprinted from Science Digest.
PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 15
