Justice Is a Group Affair (Continued from page 33) Mr. Peterson cleared his throat again. Let me see your report card, Judith," he said. She gave it to him. "Why, there's a mistake here. How is that?" He used an eraser and a pen and handed the card back. A "G" was written where the "P" had been. "Oh, thanks!" Judith gulped and ran to her seat. Mr. Peterson looked hard at a book. Edna turned abruptly and walked out of the room, her back a rigid exclamation point of triumph and disgust. Judith caught a glimpse of her face as she turned to close the door. It was grey-white like snow in shadow. The group in the rear broke up, and Judith moved outside, too. No one wanted to talk. Afterwards the schoolroom was different. Mr. Peterson's attitude was impersonal, and a whole new world opened wide. There was so much to learn and so little time! Life grew exciting and happy again. Soon the feeling of expectancy, which was spring, rose on the air; and the hillside, still clothed in the shaggy grass of the autumn before, began to push through the snow. When the windows were open, Judith could hear the first water-song coming up from the sunny side of the bridge where the creek was creeping out of its cold, hard covering and bubbling over with freedom. The linnets alighted in the nearby trees and tossed up their tinkling notes: "Happy greeting! Happy greeting!" And there was a fresh, clean smell in the air as of rainwashed leaves or newly-laundered curtains. Then, suddenly, it was May; the Maypole dance was over, the pasture rolling down toward the creek from the schoolyard fence was warm and green and dotted with brassy little buttons of dandelions, and the final examinations were just around the corner. Now Judith sat on the summer grass remembering Edna Silver... Justice is a group affair, justice for: everybody, and everybody's concern.... Some folks unkind, but more who were selfless and lovable and great... Edna Silver. All these were hers in a wonderful country; and she had thought it was a new dress that mattered, but Edna had known. Her heart was packed to bursting with unformed dreams. This Night Mabel Jones Gabbott How beautiful this twilight hour! The day Is done.