LITERATURE Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Member of General Board In making the declaration of our faith, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "We follow the admonition of Paul—We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." This was so important in the mind of Paul and our own dear prophet, that it was incorporated in our Articles of Faith, and it is quite as necessary in its way as the first prin- — ciples of the gospel. We carry them with us always, but it is a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE quite necessary that we accept the good and the beautiful and the praiseworthy and the virtuous, wherever we find it in life. In keeping with this idea of progression and eternal advancement, our Church has always made an effort to live up to these things; and our General Board, a few years ago, inaugurated a course of study in literature by which every woman in our Church, no matter how restricted her advantages, no matter how remote her environment, can have at least a smattering of what our boys and girls are getting in college. If it were possible to entertain in our communities, at our firesides, any of the great men and women of whom we read and hear—Abraham Lincoln, Washington, Nightingale, Joan of Arc, or any of the great writers of the day, is there a woman present who would neglect the opportunity of having that man or woman at her fireside to talk with them and to have them open the vision of travel, or history, or philosophy or kindly thought? There is not a woman in the world, I think, who would neglect that opportunity of entertaining such visitors. For the past months we have had just such visitors in our midst. We have had the beloved Longfellow for two months in our homes and classes. We have had Whittier, and we are going to have others during the year. Mothers lie awake nights planning ways and means to send children to college. If refinement and culture and education are necessary to the younger generation, they are just as necessary to us. The few years' difference in our ages makes very little difference to us in the vast ages of time and eternity, and our children are proud of us in our effort to gain a knowledge of what they are studying. Literature is something true and real, and a beautiful way to gain knowledge of things going on in the world. The literature we are studying is old, old thought clothed in beautiful language. I have been surprised in visiting the stakes to observe the interest being taken in studying literature. For the rest of the year we will study the lives and works of many writers, and I envy those of you who are meeting for the first time Dr. Holmes, James Russell Lowell, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and the three women writers, Alice and Phebe Cary, and Emily Dickinson. I commend to you the saying of our prophet, and of St. Paul, "If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." s] SociAL SERVICE Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, Member of General Board In our social service department, during the past two years, the women of the Relief Societies have been studying the home, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 289 C home leadership, and the relationship between husband and wife, and the relationship between parent and child. Four years ago, during 1920-21, they studied the community. During the present year, it is planned to study the family in relation to society. The object of this course is to learn the needs of normal family life, how best to meet these needs, and to learn how to overcome some of the social evils that interfere with normal living. It is earnestly hoped that every member of this great organization will avail herself of the opportunity of studying this most interesting. And vital subject. Social work can be carried on only by one who understands and loves mankind. Before one can promote social welfare, he must learn how to understand human nature, and how to help intelligently those in distress. Our lessons of 1924 will enable us to do this. Relief Society workers should know how to devise ways and means to enable families to live normal, full lives. This may be done by co-operating with the public schools, health agencies, with industrial concerns, with recreation committees, and by furnishing opportunity for vocational training of the youth, in order that they may be of the greatest service to the community. The social worker should make a careful study of every family in. Need of any kind of assistance, find out the cause of the trouble, and by what means such causes may be removed. Material assistance for the time being may be necessary. In such cases it should be given promptly, but the aim should always be to give such constructive help that the people may become self-supporting. There are problems of juvenile delinquency, misunderstanding, neighborhood quarrels, and numerous other difficulties that have to be met. The Relief Society worker's mission is primarily spiritual, to help bring about better social and spiritual conditions. It may frequently happen, however, that rich families may be in as great need of Relief Society work as poor families. They need especially to learn the truth of the doctrine that it is more blessed to give than to receive. If well-to-do families who are indiffer- -ent to religion can be induced to give of their time and means for the good of their fellows, that which they give will redound to their own good. Absence of a religious spirit, and a selfish pursuit of pleasure is responsible for the high rate of divorce and the high rate of juvenile delinquency. Character is developed through service, and the best service is developed through identification with organizations which have at heart the betterment of man. The main thought underlying all social welfare work is to utilize all resources at our command to make our services just as intelligent and effective as possible, 290. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE