WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S WORK AND DUTY.
	NOW that the heat of the campaign is
over and the election held in all parts of the
United States, and the results comparative-
ly well known, it may be that the excite-
ment will subside and gradually things will 
assume their normal condition. Certainly
here in Utah there should not be such
material disturbances as to effect our pros-
perity, or the good feeling that should exist
with people whose interests are in so many 
respects closely identified with each other in
the welfare of the whole. So far as it is
possible the party feeling should be laid
aside, and especially among women there 
ought not to exist any intense partisanship
to hinder their working together for the
public good. In educational work particu-
larly women should show such deep inter-
est and true nobility of purpose as to secure
the admiration of all intelligent and high-
minded citizens. There is ample opportu-

[Column 2]
nity to do commendable work in this direc-
tion, and it is most desirable-that the
mothers should manifest the deepest interest
in the welfare of the children in the school-
room and see to it that all conditions are for
the best good of the scholars, not only in
books, desks, teachers and buildings of the
highest grade and attainments, but that the
sanitary regulations are of the most im-
proved methods. This seems to be the
special duty of the women voters; and
another important matter is the municipal
regulations of city affairs. In many cities
women have done effective work in this
direction, and have met with sincere appro-
bation because of the success achieved over
and above the results of man’s work alone.
	Utah is bound to become a great and
prosperous state, and it never can be un-
less it has great women as well as great
men. Both are equally necessary for the
achievement to be gained, and the young
women of the present generation, would do
well to emulate the heroic example of the
women who helped men to lay the founda-
tion of this prosperous and growing state.
	There are some particular objects far-see-
ing women have been anxious to promote,
and that they have felt the state should
foster in the way of giving remunerative
employment to the people, and also that it
would be beneficial in several ways. These
are perhaps to men trivial things in com-
parison with other more noticable legisla-
tion, but it is trifles that make up the sum
of human existence.
	In this connection it is only just to men-
tion the silk industry, which has received
something of an impetus during the last
year, since the appropriation made by the
first legislature of the new State; but the
work requires more help and greater effort
to establish it permanently and make it pay
for the means invested. If something
more substantial were done, the State
would then realize the utility of investment.
	The Kindergarten system in connection
with the public schools should be brought
before the legislature and the matter pushed
to a realization, (and by the way) in Bear
River City, Box Elder Co., the women
have succeeded in having a kindergarten in
connection with the district school.
	A public library and reading room will
also be a subject for serious consideration,
and one might go into other matters for the
betterment of the people, and aids to the
home, but mere suggestions are all that
was intended in this article.
	A small number of women were nomina-
ted by each of the two great parties and the
Democrats having elected their ticket, it
follows that all the women nominated by
them are elected. So far we are not quite
sure of all in the state, but in Salt Lake
county we know there are three and in
Utah county one. From this city Dr.
Martha Hughes Cannon goes to the Senate,
Mrs. Eurithe LaBarthe to the House, Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine will fill the office
of Auditor; and Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of
Provo, Treasurer of Utah Co.
	These are all women in the prime of life,
with good mentality and manifest activity,
and capability in other positions, and it
seems a foregone conclusion that they will 
acquit themselves well and do honor to the
cause of equal suffrage. There are no
supposable grounds for thinking otherwise,
and certainiy they are to be congratulated.
	It is a disappointment that all the wo-
men were not elected, for it would have

[Column 3]
been a much truer, test of women’s power
had there been some women from each
party; as it is the Republican party having
lost everything here, and nearly everything
throughout the entire state, women as well
as men must content themselves as best
they can until another election, when
things may be different. Therefore we re-
peat the old saying, “Make the best of it.”
	The vote for Presidential electors was
also overwhelmingly in favor of the Bryan
electors and consequently the Democrats
have won the day in Utah, though their
candidate for President is not the victor
this time.
	Looking at the matter philosophically
the time evidently had not come for so
decided a change in the nation; the Latter-
day Saints believe implicitly in an over-
ruling Providence that guides, directs and
controls the affairs of nations. And assuredly
in this case the people had exerted their
utmost strength at the polls, and the cam-
paign had been rigorously pushed through-
out the entire country. Whatever changes
may come it is wise to hope and believe all
will be for the best eventually, even though
it may seem hard and be contrary to what
the people generally were longing, hoping
and praying for.
	The Latter-day Saints know that it is their
duty to live their religion to have faith in
the promises of God made to His people from
time to time through His servants, and
whatever changes come or difficulties, or
tribulations, to maintain their integrity to
the Gospel unflinchingly through good or ill
report in all places and at all times. Who-
ever can do this, discharging every duty
faithfully, cannot fail to secure peace of
mind and have the courage that will carry
them through all the trials and difficulties
of life, and help them to obtain eternal life
in the world to come.


