LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Oct. 17, 1896, Counselor E.
Webb presiding. Singing “Lord we come
before Thee now,” prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon, singing “Welcome best
of all good meetings,” minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Counselor
Webb thought we could have a very
pleasant meeting although there were so
few here, for the Lord had promised that
where a few had met together in His name
there He would be also; said there was a
good deal of sickness now and we had need to
put our trust in the Lord; made some excel-
lent remarks.  Regretted very much Presi-
dent Horne’s sickness which prevented her
being here with the sisters.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, felt she was strengthened in
doing so, said the sisters faces, no matter
how old and plain they might be, looked
beautiful to her; spoke of her severe ill-
ness and how she was healed almost instant-
ly by faith, said it would take hours to tell
of her blessings. Prayed God to bless us
all and strengthen us.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball said the sen-
tence just came to her “ If ye love me, feed
my sheep,” thought by attending these
meetings we were fed, spoke of a sister’s
fast day meeting experience, and on faith
and asked questions on the same. Referred
to Sister Rachel Grant’s affliction, of her
deafness, felt we should exercise more faith
for our loved ones and for ourselves, culti-
vate our faith by living pure lives and be-
coming pure in heart. Proposed that the
key-note of the meeting and the next two
weeks to be “Faith,” prayed the Lord to
give us the spirit of inspiration and of faith,
that when we laid our hands on the sick
they might be healed.
	President Mary A. Hyde felt it a privil-
ege to meet here with the sisters today,
said when she first joined the Church she
could pick out every Latter-day Saint in a

[Column 2]
congregation by the glow on their faces
which was the Spirit of the Lord, this was
a great testimony to her; bore a strong
testimony, spoke of her association with
the Prophet Joseph Smith also of her brok-
en limb and how she was healed by the
power of faith, made some other excellent
remarks.
	Sister J. C. Howe said since meeting
with us last she had great cause for grati-
tude, told how she had met with a very
severe accident, had fallen from a high
place and injured her arm; her first
thought was to be administered to which
was done and she was healed, felt to praise
the Lord for this, considered it was the
duty when we had these manifestations of
God’s goodness to us to speak of these
things. Prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Armeda S. Young felt while the
sisters were speaking on faith she must
arise and speak of how she was blest. She
referred to the work of Sister Sorenson, she
had fasted and prayed that she might have
an opportunity of speaking to President
Woodruff about this work. She had the
chance and President Woodruff said to her,
‘‘God bless you and go on with your
work.” She felt comforted and blest by
this. Bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul spoke on Faith also
testified that God did hear and answer our
prayers, the Lord was displeased with none
so much as those that did not acknowledge
His hand, told how she had been healed
and how she had helped to administer to
others, felt it was our duty to speak of these
things. Prayed God to bless us all and
increase our faith. Sister Paul was filled
with the spirit of prophecy, and prophecied
many good things for the sisters.
	Sister Waterfall gave her experiences in
her sickness and how she had been healed
bore her testimony and felt to praise the
Lord.
	Sister Allred related her experience
when a very young girl before joining the
Church, she had a very sick spell and was
healed by the Elders of the Church. Bore
a faithful testimony.
	Counselor E T. Webb felt we had had a
very good meeting and hoped we would act
upon Sister Kimball’s suggestion and study
the subject of faith, and all have something
to say at the next meeting about it. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Mary Alice Lambert.
