CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	IN preparing a brief article upon porce-
lain I have been somewhat hampered for
reference books also for want of time to
make it worthy the subject and worthy the
attention of this cultivated body of women.
	I can only briefly touch upon the origin, 
influence and progress of pottery and por-
celain for several thousand years to the
present time.
	Pottery is the oldest and most widely
diffused of human arts. The recorded his-
tory begins with the building of Babel, and
great cities in all ages are great structures
of pottery. It is its own historian. Ceramic
collections are libraries of history; every
specimen a book of the thoughts of men, of
which the earliest known were published
not long after the Deluge. Every people
civilized or barbarian, in one form or
another have written their history in clay. 
	The first fire kindled on clay soil, baked
it and thus it was found that a soft, easily
molded substance could be made into 
a permanent article of use; wherever trade
was established and pottery made for sale,
the forms and decorations were those most
likely to be accepted by the people; thus 
the prevailing styles were the indicators of
public taste and the work of the potter en-
during for ages, makes the Ceramic art take
precedence of all others, as the index of
human character in various ages and
countries. All study in every department
of human art, begins at a period not long
after the Mosaic Deluge. All art history
when traced towards its beginning, is found
to commence at a time less than 5000 years
ago. There is no work of human hands, 
no result of human thought now known
where date is found more than 3000 years
before Christ. The converging lines in the
history of all human invention and arts, in
tombs, in architecture, in money, in forms
of religion, in language spoken or written,
above all in Ceramic art, point to the west-
ern portion of Asia as the place where, and
about 5000 years ago as the time when the
history of man as read in his works, must
begin. 
	The oldest known pottery is Egyptian. 
We approach Egypt with a certain amount
of awe, for it comprises relics of civilization
of such hoary antiquity, that it seems like
peering into the secrets of the grave. Un-
glazed pottery was made in many parts of
the world as an independent discovery, and
the genealogy briefly stated is this.—Men
made brick and other unglazed pottery in
Mesopotamia and carried the art with them
wherever they went The Egyptians dis-
covered the art of painting it with colors.
Persia received the art from Assyria and


[Column 1]
transmitted it to China, China gave it to
Corea and Japan. Traces of art appear in
the Eastern Mediterranean and it is suppos-
ed to have extended down the line to Ger-
many where it is found in its 12th century.
In the middle of the 15th century Italy
adopted it and Italian potters carried it to
France.  German potters who had either
revived their lost art or received it
afresh from Italy, diffused it through
Northern Europe.
	Holland took it from Germany and sent
new potters to England to teach it. Mean-
time about 2000 years ago, either in Persia
or China was discovered the art of making
pottery translucent and producing what is
now known as porcelain.
	For 1600 years this art was known only
in Asia. In Venice about 1519, an old pot-
ter made porcelain and died without leaving
a successor. It was made in Florence
about 1580, but again the art was lost.
At St. Cloud, France, about 1695, the art
of making soft-parte pottery was discover-
ed and France began to make this ware.
About 1710 at Dresden in Germany the
Asiatic secret of making true or hard-parte
porcelain was discovered and thereafter
came the glory of Dresden and Sevres in
both kinds of porcelain; thus the cups on
our tables are lineal descendents of the cups
used by the ancestry of the builders of the
Pyramids.
	A child is sometimes told to hold a shell
to its ear and hear the sound of the sea—
that same deep sound which one may hear
in any vase of Chelsea or Derby, Sevres or
Dresden, Menton or Copal and coming
down through the long succession of gener-
ations of pottery is the roar of the Deluge.
	The lessons and Influences received from
Egypt, at and after the conquest of Cyprus
are as visible in Cypriote vases, as if
written in Greek or English letters.
	The rude forms of early Phenician
statuettes, resembling the mud figures
made by modern children are followed by
more graceful figures, until the culmnia-
tion is reached in that superb Greek art
which has never been surpassed.
	The Egyptians stamped on the forms of
pottery imperishable illustrations of their
wonderful mythology. The Greek fabrics
glowed with illustrations of the Helenic
story. The Chinese spread over their en-
ameled ware a wealth of brilliant colors,
rich with the chaotic imagery of Chinese
religion and history. The Saracens inter-
wove in pottery the luxuriant vines and
flowers of the east and made their marques
shine in the sunlight, resplendent with gor-
geous colors. Assyria, Phenicia, Italy, Ger-
many, France, England, and in fact, every
country has impressed or painted character-
istic thoughts, in or on the plastic clay and
burned it for a permanent record, to be
studied by generations of man. The lovers
of porcelain need no further argument to
justify them in their hobby. They have
abundant reason for the pursuit in this—
that no other art so fully gratifies the love
of beauty. Standards of beauty are arbi-
trary, but the Ceramic art conforms to any
and every standard. The highest results
of civilization may be said to appear in the
best union of beauty and utility.
	Porcelain and pottery are thus the
measure as no other art can be of compara-
tive civilization. Almost all other beauty
fades or decays. Flowers are short lived;
oil or water color painting change and
fade; but a group of beautiful flowers or

[Column 2]
figures by a great artist on a Dresden vase,
painted a century ago, gleams with the
beauty of a summer day and will be as beauti-
ful a thousand years hence as today unless
the vase be broken. Color except in gems
is nowhere so brilliant as in enamel.
	Families brought up with such cheerful
household decorations feel their refining in-
fluence; children grow up among them
with a love of beauty; the table furnished
with tasteful ware ceases to be a mere feed-
ing place, its memories become important
possesions as the members separate to go
their different ways in the journey of life.
	Pottery in the broadest meaning of the
word includes everything made by baking
in a furnace into the composition of which
clay enters. Porcelain is a variety of pot-
tery—objects made wholly or in part in
clay and baked which are opaque are called
pottery; those which are translucent are
porcelain. Pottery is of two kinds, soft
and hard; soft pottery is made of ordinary
clay a common house brick is an illustra-
tion. Hard pottery is made by a mixture
of stone or sand with clay as a fire brick is
an illustration. Soft pottery is divided in-
to four classes—Unglazed, Glazed, Lustrous
and Enameled. Glazed pottery is covered
with a coating of glass. Lustrous pottery
is where the object is covered with a thin
varnish-like glaze, so thin that an iron
point easily penetrates it; its composition
is unknown. Enameled pottery is covered
with a substance composed of stone, sand,
oxide of lead and tin.
	Hard pottery is the ware known as stone
ware. The cream ware perfected by
Wedgewood was hard pottery. Porce-
lain is a translucent pottery made by the
union of vitrifiable and non-vitrifiable sub-
stances. Hard paste porcelain or true porcelain
is made by the union of kaolen and felspar.
	The potters wheel is a revolving disc
turned by foot or machinery. The clay is
softened with water, a lump according to
the size of the vessel to be made is thrown
violently down on the center of the wheel
which is set in motion and the workmen
with thumb and fingers, curved sticks,
knives and other tools shapes the vessel.
Other forms are made in molds. The pot-
tery can be painted on the unglazed ware
or on the enamel. The colors for decorat-
ing porcelain are colored earths mixed
with vitrifiable substances.
	I have now given the technology of pot-
tery and will briefly touch upon the dif-
ferent nations and their pottery. As has
been stated before, Egypt was the first to
make pottery. It made it before the build-
ing of the pyramids. Tablets of pottery
were used there for ordinary writing pur-
poses. The next to learn pottery was
Assyria and Babylonia where it was also
used for records and business transactions.
Next came China, then Greece, then Etru-
ria, then Rome.
	The best Persian arid Italian pottery was
the first half of the 16th ceritury. The in-
cised ware was the earliest decoration and
consisted of designs scratched in through
the surface color showing the color beneath.
The wares were not beautiful in form, their
merit consisted in the decoration. Italian
potters then carried the art to France and
the French artists adopted many styles and
originated many more until it almost leads
the world today. It is said that women
cannot invent anything of themselves, but
in 1547 we read that the widow of Arthur
Gouffier occupied herself with books and art.

[Column 3]
She established a small pottery, employed
workmen and made ware for her own
amusement; when she died she left the
estate to her son who still carried on the
work, but the products ceased to appear
with the lives of mother and son. They
were called the Oiron ware and belong to
what is known in France as faience. The
lady seems to have followed her own taste
in modeling and decorating, the prevailing
color being a dark yellow on a cream white
ground, darkened by brown; there are
few pieces in existence aud they are so
valuable that one piece sold for 25,000
francs. This ware was never copied until
our own time at great labor and expense
by skilled English potters. Who shall say
women can accomplish nothing!
	China which has the honor of naming
all porcelain, is supposed to be only an imi-
tator, and it is probable that they
learned enameling from central Asia. The
Chinese have never been distinguished for
inventing, but only as close imitators. The
oldest Chinese work on Ceramic art was
issued in the 14th century and there are
now in China many private and one imper-
ial factories. From this last has come the
finest specimens of Chinese porcelain. It
is said that most of the ancient work was
reproduced in the Ming dynasty and
collectors do not know when paying a high
price for seeming old china, but what it is
a modern imitation of the cunning China-
man who has ways that are dark and tricks
that are sometimes vain.
	The peculiar greenish tint seen on so
much of the Chinese ware is due, it is said,
to their desire to imitate jode one of the
hardest substances known. The most
celebrated of Chinese potters were Chu Ong
and his daughter, Chu Kias. The father
excelled in birds and beasts while the
daughter who excelled her father produced
exquisite works of all kinds and colors.
Her wares sold for more than their weight
in silver.
							L. S. M.


