REV. ANNA HOWARD SHAW M. D.

	The coming of Dr. Shaw to speak in the
large Tabernacle was an event of considerable
importance, as she is really the most distin-
guished woman speaker on the platform.
This year she has been working vigorously
for the suffrage amendment in the State of
California, and naturally it has given her a
wonderful experience of Western life, and
particularly in relation to the conditions of
women in the Western States. Dr. Shaw
has received several ovations there that
were very gratifying and complimentary,
and assuredly the women of this state
were glad to show her the utmost
respect and accord the honor due to a grand
and noble woman whose life is devoted to
the advancement of her sex and the uplift-
ing of the race. Miss Shaw has a charm-
ing personality and commanding presence,
a winning and gracious manner and in fact
all the characteristics that are calculated to


edify and please an audience composed of
men and women accustomed to listen to
sublime subjects eloquently illustrated by
word painting.
	Of Dr. Shaw the press in all the large
cities where she has spoken has given
excellent testimonials.
	The Louisville Commercial, Louisville,
Ky., said “The Rev. Anna Shaw the
noted preacher of Boston, appeared before
two large audiences in this city yesterday
and established a reputation as a profound
thinker and eloquent and graceful
speaker.”
	Miss Shaw captivated her entire audience
and held it spellbound for about two hours
on the subject of “The Fate of Repub-
lics.” Her speech was a magnificent plea
for woman suffrage, interspersed with wit,
harmless sarcasm, considerable wisdom and
oceans of eloquence. She is a complete
bundle of natural and acquired niceties of
intellectual development. “She has a pure
silver tongue, oiled with honey and polished
with strong vinegar.”—The Home
Weekly.
	The San Francisco Chronicle said “ Five
thousand people waiting on the steps of the
Temple Emanuel for the purpose of hearing
the woman preacher’s last address does not
look as though her position were uncertain.
Mere curiosity does not take the same peo-
ple to nine consecutive sessions.”
	Another paper, The Empire, Toronto,
Canada, says, “She is a clever logician and
clinches her arguments well. It is impos-
sible to accuse her of either rant or tirade; 
her speech has force and definiteness, yet
always a touch of humor that keeps even
the crustiest audience on pleasant terms
with the speaker. She possesses a rich
contralto voice that rings full and sweet in
the largest auditorums and contributes
much to the enjoyment of her hearers.”
	Miss Shaw was accompanied by four
ladies who have been assisting in carrying
on the campaign for the suffrage amend-
ment to the Constitution in California.
They are Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Dr.
Shaw’s Secretary, a very able and genial
young woman, Mrs. Emma Sweet, Susan
B. Anthony’s Secretary who is all her
name implies and a great deal more, Miss
Mary G. Hay, who always makes a favor-
able impression and has an abundance of
executive ability, and Harriet May Mills,
who possesses the characteristics essential
for effective work in any great undertaking.


