EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE Executive meeting of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
will he held this year in Boston on Decem-
ber 2nd, 3rd and 4th. Notices have been
sent to each society belonging to the Coun-
cil to send delegates, but this year Utah
organizations cannot conveniently send
representatives on account of the great dis-
tance and the scarcity of means.
	THE book of poems to be issued by Mrs.
E. B. Wells is now in course of publication
at the office of the Juvenile Instructor, more
than one third of the pages have been
prepared, and it is expected the Book will
be ready for subscribers before Christmas.
The title will be MUSINGS AND MEMORIES
and the size and shape of the Dictionary of
the Book of Mormon.
	As the list of names of Presidents and
Secretaries is now nearly complete and
ready for publication, and finding a delin-
quency in this Stake, we find it necessary
to make another request that each Presi-
dent of a Relief Society in Salt Lake City
and County send by letter or postal to this
office the full name and Post Office address
of President and Secretary of her respective
society, at the earliest possible date. 
	THE reception on Nov. 9 to Dr. Shaw
and her party of ladies at the Templeton
Hotel was a great disappointment on ac-
count of the inclemency of the weather;
the lecture in the evening was also sparsely


attended for the same reason; but it was a
success in every other respect; her subject
was “The Fate of Republics” and was
handled in a masterly manner. Miss Shaw
was introduced to the audience by Gover-
ner Wells in a brief but very graceful
speech, and her audience were appreciative
and sympathetically responsive, and all
hoped it would not be her last visit to Salt
Lake City.
	AT a business meeting of the officers of
the State Suffrage Association held in the
office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT on Wed-
nesday, October 7, at 11 a. m. (and as this
was the time for the election of officers for
the ensuing year) a quorum being present,
among other matters considered was the
subject of continuing the Association, the
members having since obtaining the fran-
chise divided on party lines. In this con-
nection Mrs. Emily S. Richards moved
that the Association hold over until next
April, and that official letters be sent to
all County organizations requesting them
to give an expression in writing on the
question of continuing the different organ-
izations. The motion was seconded by
Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, and carried unanimous-
ly. After the transaction of some other
business, the meeting adjourned subject to
he call of the President.


