U. W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting on Wednesday, October 28
instead of the 31st because of the woman’s
mass meeting to be held on that date. It
was a very interesting session, President E.
B. Wells presided in her usually dignified
manner and called upon Mrs. Maria Wilcox
to open the meeting with prayer.
	The secretary then called the roll and
read the minutes of the last meeting which
were approved. The President explained
the results of the business meeting of the
executive committee and our reason for
changing the present meeting from the
regular date and said: “Our program upon
the present occasion is to attend to the im-
portant business of electing officers for the
coming year and the representation of
literary characters by the different members
of the club.” 

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Phebe C. Young gave the unique
and practical sentiment from Owen Meri-
dith’s Lucile “Man cannot live with-
out cooks,” Elizabeth Stevenson repre-
sented herself as a night and day nurse and
a 41 year’s bride. Pearl Russell bedecked
in the crimson Autumn leaves looked the
very queen of Autumn, and gave a
beautiful poetic sentiment.
	C. C. R. Wells read Ella Wheeler Wil-
cox poem “Whatever is is best.”
	Ruth M. Fox in quaint costume and de-
mure manner represented very perfectly the
character of Alice Carey, and recited her
sweet little poem “Painting a Picture.”
	Dr. E. R. Shipp gave a sentiment from
Shakespeare, Mrs. Harker with a very long
fellow pinned upon her dress gave a charm-
ing quotation from the poet, whose words
are deep heart tones awakening the sweet-
est sentiments of life.
	President E. B. Wells in velvet gown
and silken scarf, read in her most charming
manner Jean Ingelow’s exquisite poem
“Regret.”
	Dr. R. B. Pratt with a bouquet of sweet
hawthorne blossoms, leaves and thorn, and
the letter A in gold and scarlet upon her
breast read from Hawthorne’s “Scarlet
Letter,” the extracts being very interesting
as were also her comments and moral
taken from this pathetic story. 
	The characters throughout were well
sustained, evinced by the readiness with
which they were detected. The members
too proving themselves remarkably conver-
sant with literary topics and characters.
	The President expressed her pleasure
with the evening’s entertainment and said
she regretted the motion being made at our
business meeting that we should elect no
one to office who was not present upon this
occasion, as so many of the ladies were act-
vely engaged in the political campaign and
could not be here to represent themselves.
Ella W. Hyde who made the motion was
willing to have the motion reconsidered
which was accordingly done and by vote of
the members, carried unanimously. Mrs.
Hyde then made a motion which carried,
that the President appoint a nominating
committee. R. B. Pratt. H. A. Badger
and E. J. Stevenson were appointed by the
President to act as that committee. The
committee then withdrew and pleasant chat
was engaged in until their return, when
the chairman of the committee gave the
following report: Ruth M. Fox, Pres’t;
Ella W. Hyde, Vice-Pres’t; Syntitha
Dickinson, 2nd Vice-Pres’t; Ellis R.
Shipp, Vice-Pres’t at large; Oreille Curtis,
Secretary; Hattie Harker, Assistant Secre-
tary; Lizzie S. Wilcox Cor. Secretary;
Olea Shipp, Assistant Cor. Secretary;
Phebe C. Young, Treasurer; L. D. Alder,
Auditor.
	The motion was made and. carried, that
we accept the names as prepared by the
committee for the officers of the U. W. P. C.
for the ensuing year.
	The names of Maria Miller Johnson, Julia
Ivins McDonald and Augusta Joyce
Chrocheron were also accepted as honorary
members. L. D. Alder, H. A. Badger and
E. J. Stevenson were sustained as program
committee for the next three months. The
President also appointed a committee to
attend to preparing a book which should
contain the names of the officers past and
present and of all members. The ladies ap-
pointed were Dr. R. B. Pratt, Dr
E. R. Shipp and Ella W. Hyde.

[Column 3]
	The President gave advice concerning
dues, said our by-laws provided that all
dues and initation fees should be paid with-
in sixty days and that all who failed to
perform their part on the program should be
fined a nominal sum.
	Miss Maude Pratt said that on account of
her inability to attend regularly, she desired
to tender her resignation. It was, how-
ever, moved and carried that Miss Pratt’s
name be retained upon the roll.
	Meeting adjourned and prayer was offer-
ed by L. D. Alder. The next important
matter to be attended to was delicious re-
freshments served by the young ladies of
the club.
