AT BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.
	ON the 16th of October the anniversary
of the founding of the Brigham Young
Academy at Provo was appropriately cele-
brated, the institution at that time having
attained its majority, twenty-one years.
The street parade was very fine and
quite elaborate in some respects. The dif-
ferent classes and departments marching in
their order and carrying banners, flags and
colors with sentiments and symbols. The
ladies in white with colored scarfs or sashes
looked lovely, and the young men and wo-
men who carried green branches or boughs
shouting “Tree” were perhaps the most 
noticable, and certainly bore off the honors in
voicing their emblem.
	The day was fine and everything passed
off harmoniously, notwithstanding the long
line of people in carriages and on foot and
the bands of music and gay streamers as
well. The houses, business blocks etc.
were decorated and everything indicated a
gala day for Provo.
	The vast concourse of citizens, visitors
and Academic teachers and students filed
into the Tabernacle about 10 a. m. and the
master of ceremonies, Prof. Benjamin
Cluff, President of the Academy announced
the program. There were quite a number
of distinguished people present on the stand
President Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon, Apostles Brigham Young and
Heber J. Grant and Prof. Karl G. Maeser
and other notables. Quite a number of
President Brigham Young’s family occupied
seats of honor; the music was furnished
by the Academy students under the direc-
tion of Prof. Anton Lund Jr. President
Woodruff spoke a short time reviewing the
labors of the Founders of the institution and
expressing his reverence for this great man
Brigham Young and making such references
to the school as were best calculated to im-
press those present with its advantages, and
to cause the young people of today to appreci-
ate the privileges they enjoy as compared
with earlier times when the facilities for
education were very meager indeed.
	President George Q. Cannon was the
orator of the day. His address was forci-
ble and telling and calculated to inspire
those present with a true sense and appre-
ciation of the educational opportunities en-
joyed by the present generation.
	Prof. Maeser was much overcome when

[Column 2]
he tried to speak and was only able to say
a few words so tenderly was he touched
with the memories of the past.
	Captain Willard Young spoke a few
words dwelling upon the education of the
heart as well as the head. Prof. Cluff
made closing remarks, reviewing the work
of the several departments in a general
way and commenting upon methods etc.
After music and prayer the meeting was
dismissed and the crowd marched to the
Academy to partake of a sumptuous ban-
quet prepared by the Domestic Economy
Class of young women, whose motto is
“Helpful and Hopeful.”
	The tables were handsomely decorated
with flowers of the season and the whole
immense dining hall presented an inviting
appearance. It is quite impossible to go
into details, but suffice it to say the cooking
was excellent and the entire “menu”
which was not too elaborate but in strict
accordance with the hygienic system prac-
tised by the class under whose supervision
the dinner was given. Mrs. Susa Young
Gates having the management in charge.
	Toasts and sentiments were offered after-
wards by President George Q. Cannon,
Karl G. Maeser and others, and statements
were made of the condition of the Academy
and the need of establishing a collegiate
department such as would do credit to
Utah and to the great pioneer founder of
the school, Brigham Young. These mat-
ters were discussed and positive reasons
given for delaying the increase of expense,
and financial responsibility for the present
time.
	After dinner etc. classes were called in
the several departments to give the visitors
an idea of the order and methods pursued,
which was an interesting part of the affair.
	A reception was held in the evening in
order that the students might have the
opportunity of meeting and shaking hands
with Presidents Woodruff and Cannon, and
some others of the visitors from Salt Lake
City, who had been invited to the banquet
and exercises.
	The celebration has given those who
attended a better idea of the Academy and
its standing and future prospects, and cer-
tainly every person who loves Utah must
feel that this pioneer institution of learning
has done a magnificent work in the midst
of Zion.


[Column 1]
