A LOVING TRIBUTE.

Dear Sister:
	I WILL endeavor to write a brief account of the
life and labors of Sister Ann E. Cook, President
of the Garden City Relief Society who died on
the 18th of May, 1896. She was one of the most
patient uncomplaining women that ever lived and
always had a kind word for every one. She has
been a subscriber for the EXPONENT ever since
it was first started. It is quite impossible for one
to do justice to her exemplary life and many
virtues.
	She was born in the town of Stillwater, Sara-
toga Co., New York, June 18, 1823, and was the
daughter of Henry and Phebe Baker Howland.
	When she was about seventeen years of age
her parents removed to Kalamazoo Co., Michi-
gan. In 1840 she married Phineas W. Cook and
in the winter of 1844 and 45 they heard the first
sound of the glorious Gospel and gladly received
it, she being the only one of her father’s family
who has ever received it, and her husband and
one sister were the only ones of his family who
believed and were baptized. They came to the
Saints at Winter Quarters and shared in the hard-
ships and privations that were borne by them,
coming to Utah in 1848 when President Young’s
family came.
	Sister Cook was appointed president of the
Garden City Relief Society in 1876 at its first or-
ganization in which capacity she labored faith-
fully until her death; she was beloved by all who
knew her. She was the mother of sixteen child-
ren ten of whom preceded her to the other side;
she leaves four sons, two daughters, thirty grand-
children and nineteen great grandchildren. She
always bore a faithful testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, and was always willing to do any-
thing she was called to do according to the best
of her ability.
	No matter what trials and privations she had to
pass through she was never known to murmur or
complain against the justice and mercy of her
Heavenly Father. She always taught her child-
ren to pray to Him and revere His Holy Name.
	She died in full faith of a glorious resurrection.
								H. B. T.
Garden City, Rich Co., Utah, Oct. 19 1896.


[Column 1]
