LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

ROME, Saturday Dec. 3, 1895.
	THE journey was resumed by rail via
Chiusi and Arrezzo, the latter a town in
the grand duchy of Tuscany at the influx
of the Chiano into the Arno, 55 miles from
Florence, anciently celebrated for terra-
cotta vases. The celebrated painter Spin-
etto Aretino was born here; he was es-
teemed equal to Giotto in design and his
superior in painting; also the birthplace of
Petrarch (the house still stands in the
Strada dell’ Orte) in the immediate neigh-
borhood Michael Angelo was born. The
scenery along this route is beautiful and
every inch of the way most interesting.
Not far from Arrezzo we pass Carlona, an
ancient town on a hill overlooking Logo
Trasimeno, the site of the Hannibals vic-
tory and the beautiful Valle di Chiano, there
are remains of Etruscan walls, the

[Column 2]
Cathedral and churches are adorned with
pictures by Fra Angelico, Signorelli and
other later painters. Another interesting
place was Perugia, the Roman Perusia, an
Etruscan city on a hill 1300 feet above the
old valley of the Tiber. In the Collegio
del’ Cambio there is a beautiful room decor-
ated with frescoes by Perugino, the Cathed-
ral St. Lorenzo contains Baroccios Master-
piece a Descent from the Cross, and the
library contains rich manuscript, the church
St. Domenico is noted for exquisite stained
glass and the monument of Pope Benedict
XI. About fifteen miles from here is
Assisi, famous for the great Francescan
Monastery founded in 1228; its churches
also are rich in art treasures, the Monas-
teries are most interesting. We noticed
when passing the Carthusian Monastery,
the Monks have each a tiny house, a room
to live and eat in, another to sleep in; the
rooms have balconies overlooking the gar-
dens which are bright with colors and fra-
grant with sweet smells.
	We arrive at Florence (the city of flowers)
pleasantly situated among the hills with
the river Arno flowing through the city, on
its right bank is the splendid walk of the
Cascine, on the left the beautiful Viale dei
Colli. Driving to our hotel we had splen-
did views of the bridge, over the Arno, Mr.
Mc. V. pointing out Ponte Vecchio, rebuilt
in 1362, remarkable for its double line of
shops, the Ponte G Trinita is a handsome
bridge, [16th century] with statues of the
Seasons. The Campanile, the unrivaled
work of Giotto is 292 feet high of many
colored marbles and adorned with statues
and reliefs by Donatello, Andrea, Pisano
and other Masters. We reach Hotel Wash-
ington 6, Lung Arno Movo Alexander de
Gablo in time for dinner.
	December 4.—Early morning found us
on the Piazza della Signoria, the business
center of Florence and historic, as here
Savonarola was hanged and burned in 1498.
“After the departure of Charles VIII,
Savonarola was made lawgiver of Florence:
a council with a select committee like that
of Venice but with Christ as their king in-
stead of a Doge, was the government that he
advocated; his throne was the pulpit; he
ruled for three years. During this time
such an inspiration of love and sacrifice
breathed throughout Florence that unlawful
possessions were restored, enemies embrac-
ed, hymns, not ballads were sung in the
streets, and the adherents of Savonarola
went from house to house collecting all
sensuous books and pictures, which they
burnt on a huge pyre on the last day of
the carnival. About the time Savonarola
was hung Amerigo Vespucci of Florence
who gave his name to America, explored the
coast of Venezuela.”
	Our manager pointed out Palazzo Vecchio
the residence of Cosmo I. begun in 1298,
an example of the Florentine castles of the
middle ages, at the entrance is Bandinelli’s
group of Hercules and Cacus, the court is
adorned with sculptured columns and an
elegant fountain with a figure of Vorocchio,
the great hall is frescoed by Vosari and
contains Passaglio’s statue of Savonarola.
Near the place is a magnificent fountain of
the time of Cosmo I. and an exquestrian
statue of Cosmo by John of Bologna 1594; 
in the same square is the Loggia dei Lanzi
14th century, an open vaulted hall very
beautiful and containing masterpieces of
sculpture, adjoined to this is the Portico
degli Uffizi adorned with statues of cele-


brated Tuscans. In the second story of
this building is the famous Uffizi Gallery,
the hall known as the Tribune is the rich-
est room in the world and contains the
Venus de’ Medici, one of the most perfect
specimens of sculpture existing, found in
Hadrian’s villa at Tivoli, the Dancing
Faun, the Apollino, the Wrestlers, all mar-
vels of beauty, while in painting the
best works of Raphael, Michael Angelo,
Titian, Correggio, besides a rich collection
of Etruscan and Italo Grecian vases and
nearly 30,000 drawings by the great
Masters. On the first floor of the building
is the Blblioteca Nationale which contains
300,000 volumes and 8000 manuscripts
much of it is of great rarity. The building
is splendid, of rich simplicity. Connected
with this palace by a bridge a mile long is
the Pitti palace. We walked over the
bridge which is hung with portraits; there
were many of Catherine de Medici, only child
of Lorenzo de’ Medici, she was the wicked
queen of France. Here she is attired in
ermine, royal purple and jewels, looking
defiant while the portraits I saw of her in
France she was penitent, always in an
attitude of prayer. One of the party said
to me “She was not nearly so wicked as
Catherine II. of Russia.” There were por-
traits of the kings and queens of all the
kingdoms and here was a beautiful portrait
of Nell Gwynne; a lady from Dublin said
she was acquainted with her descendants
and there were three beautiful sisters, all
like Nell, not chaste. The tramp across
that bridge is long to be remembered and
in the Palace the front of which is occupied
by His Majesty, King Humbert. We
went though the Art Gallery where we saw
the beautiful blue Madonna, and the
Madonna della Seggiola by Raphaelle, a
circular picture painted in 1516. The
Madonna sits in a low chair holding the
child on her knees; at her side St. John
folds his little hands in prayer; she wears a
many colored handkerchief on her head and
one on her shoulders—it is most beautiful.
There was an exquisite Madonna and Child
by Murillo and that beautiful gem the Fates
by Rosso Fiorentino, ascribed to Michael
Angelo.
	Leaving the Pitti Palace we visited the
Casa Guida, long the residence of the
Brownings, in the Piazza S. Felice and the
house of Michael Angelo, No. 64 via
Ghibellina, and the house where Dante
was born, in the via Dante Alighieri, and
No. 2 is that of Amerigo Vespucci. Then
we visited the Baptistery to see the remark-
able bronze doors by Ghiberti, the one
nearest the church Michael Angelo
said when he looked at them “Worthy to
be the Gates of Heaven.” The streets of
Florence are old, narrow and twisting, but
in the small windows of the shops are the
most beautiful things; I wished for great
wealth that I might buy some of the art
treasures but since I could not buy, it was
a delight to admire.
	We now took carriages and drove to the
highest part of the Boboli Garden where
we had a superb view of the city, and to
the west the Vale of Arno. The hills are
very beautiful and the plains covered with
villages and country residences. Then
we drove to the Foundling Hospital with
the famous Medallions of infants in
swaddling clothes, by Andrea della Robba,
they are most curious and priceless, money
would not purchase one. Home to dinner.
						KIM.


