THE SNARE.

	IN section 90 and 17th verse of the
Doctrine and Covenants it reads thus: "Be
not ashamed neither confounded, but be
admonished in all your high mindedness
and pride, for it bringeth a snare upon your
souls.” It also says “Cease to be idle,
cease to be unclean.”—Yes truly our
Father requires us to be pure, both mentally
and physically clean, or we are not fit to
come into His kingdom; but this caution
upon high-mindedness and pride has been
repeated many times in the old Testament
as well as the New, but not in this form
telling us of the snare.
	But it is a caution and should be observ-
ed you will no doubt admit, and after
being repeated by so many prophets both
ancient and modern, shall we now be slack
and treat the subject with indifference?
Then we shall undoubtedly feel the snare,
even as the Apostle Peter did, for I think
he was a high-minded, proud man natu-
rally.
	Had he been humble he would have ask-
ed our Savior why He washed His disci-
ples feet, for he would be ashamed to have
his Lord and Master do this for him; but
instead of this he quickly said “Thou
shalt never wash my feet,” the reply was,
"Then thou wilt have no part or lot with
me;" but behold how quickly he was
humbled and said "Not only my feet, but
my hands and head." Jesus said "Ye
are clean but not all."
	Then you remember when told by our
Savior “He that hath no sword let him
sell his garment and buy one,” He was
told “We have two swords,” the reply
was “It is enough.”

[Column 2]
	Here Peter saw a crisis was at hand and
was ready and willing to use the sword,
which he did and was told to put up his
sword in its sheath. How astonished to
hear this! What benefit is a sword kept
in its sheath? Here he flew into a passion
and said “I do not know his meaning. No
I do not know the man.” He denied Him
three times, then the cock crowed; Jesus
gave him a look which Peter felt, remem-
bering the words “Before the cock crows
twice thou wilt deny me thrice.” The
Apostle Peter went out and wept bitterly.
Here humility took the place which pride
and self-conceit had left, for this is the
spirit of the world and we being of the
earth earthy, we find it is our spirit at
times although we think we are humble or
try to be so at least, yet we find we have a
will power which may be used with indis-
cretion at times when in haste, and we do
not take time to consider the consequences.
	You will remember our Savior previous-
ly told Peter that “Satan desires to sift
thee as wheat, but I have prayed for thee.”
Now I would ask, was he not in the sieve
at the time of these trials? (And where
in does the sieve differ from the snare, for
they are surely in the hands of the tempter,)
until he was again humble, then the Lord
could deliver him and surely his lesson was
a profitable one, teaching him the difference
between pride and self-conceit, and dignity
and self-respect; the former being the
spirit of the world and the latter the Spirit
of Christ; for this dignity enabled Him to
reject the tempter every time until he gained
the victory. Yet always answering him in
a respectful manner yet firm and decided.
Is not this God-like?
	Does not this spirit belong to every
sound-minded, religious person?
	Not only so, but the good spirit requires
you to love your enemies, do good to those
who hate you, making sacrifices. “If he
ask you to give him your coat, give him
your cloak also; if he ask you to go a mile,
go with him twain,” etc., then you become
worthy to be called the children of your
Father.
	This nobility of character does not be-
long to the proud ones of this world. No,
they can not understand such humility as
this. The spirit of the world could not
comprehend it. No, it takes the wisdom
of the Deity to keep out of the snare that is
ready for us if we lean so much upon our
own strength and do not observe the golden
rule. Let us then be humble and acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in our chastise-
ment; for it seems that we are already in
the snare, ever since politics divided us, as
Jesus said “except ye are one ye are not
mine.” Humility is our only safe-guard,
for the Lord resists the proud but gives
grace to the humble.
	St. Paul tells us that all our afflictions
will be sanctified to our good in as much as
we fear God and keep his commandments.
This is a comfort; then let us not grieve
the good Spirit of our Father who is watch-
ing to do good to all who put their trust in
Him. This is the faith of
ZION'S CONVERT.
S. L. City, Aug. 10, 1896.

	MISS HARRIET MAY MILLS contrlbutes
to the Woman's Journal graphic letters
describing the California campaign.
	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR of Lafayette,
Ind., has been speaking in many places in
Ohio in behalf of free silver.

[Column 3]
	IN Montana, following the example of
Idaho, all four of the political parties have
put a woman suffrage plank in their plat-
forms—Democrats, Populists and both
wings of the Republicans.---Boston Tran-
script.
	THE women of France prepared a
monster petition, which was presented to
the Czarina on her visit to Paris, asking her
to exert her influence with her husband to
obtain the deliverance of Armenia from
Turkish rule.—Ex.
	AT Melbourn, Victoria, on October 9,
the Assembly, after an all-night sitting,
passed the second reading of the bill estab-
lishing woman suffrage and “one man, one
vote.”

	BEFORE the next issue of the WOMAN'S
JOURNAL the most momentous national
election held for many years will have been
decided; and of the millions of women
whose interests are at stake, not one will
have had a voice in determining the result
except those who live in Wyoming, Utah
and Colorado.—Woman's Journal.

	MRS. HUMPHREY WARD'S latest book,
“Sir George Tressady,” which has just
appeared, is considered the most interesting
of this great novelist’s books. The author
occupies a place in the first rank of modern
writers. Mrs. Ward, as is well known,
comes from the brilliant Arnold family, of
which Mathew Arnold was a member.
Her early years were spent in Oxford, and
she grew up under the influence of that
city’s intellectual life. She is not only a
student of books but of men, and her time
is divided almost equally between her uni-
versity extension work and writing. Mrs.
Ward is, without doubt, the best paid of
living novelists. Out of “Robert Else-
mere,” “David Grieve” and “Marcella”
she has probably made $3,000,000, and for
the last one published she will receive more
than for any other.

	AT the Woman’s Congress in Berlin
the greater part of the addresses was in-
deed worth hearing, giving news and de-
tails of the work of women all over the
world. The papers on the University
studies of women, and on the practice of
medical women read by doctors from
America, Russia, Armenia, Bosnia, France
and Italy were received with the same
sympathy as the papers on the Working
Women Question of the different countries.
The claim for participation in poor and
orphanage work met with as great an inter-
est as the Woman’s Right Question; and
the legal disabilities of German women
were just as much condemned as the
Government’s indifference to prostitution,
all in all, one hundred papers were read.


