MRS. STANTON TO MR. BRYAN.

	To the Democratic Nominee for Presi-
dent of the United States William Bryan.
	Honored Sir:—In your leisure hours I
presume you are considering some very
strong points with which to gild your in-
augural address in case you should be
chosen for our next president.
	Allow me to call your attention to the
position of thirty-five millions of American
citizens, who in violation of every principle
of our government, are wholly unrepresent-
ed in the legislature of the country. A
large number of this class are persons of
education and wealth, exerting an immense
moral and intellectual influence on our
civilization and pouring vast sums as taxes
into our national treasury.
	In view of that fact, it would be a grace-
ful tribute from a young man to the moth-
ers of this Republic to recommend Con-
gress, in his inaugural address to pass a
Sixteenth Amendment to the National Con-
stitution forbidding disfranchisement in the
several states on the ground of “Sex,”
thus placing educated women at least on an
even political platform with emancipated
slaves and ignorant immigrants of the old
world.
	Such an act of justice on the threshold of
your administration would be the keynote
to the reforms proposed by the Chicago
platform. Important as the questions of
Finance and Tariff may be, they are insig-
nificant compared with the civil and politi-
cal rights of thirty-five millions of people.
	This would be the strongest point in
your address, and one that none of your
predecessors have as yet made; a step of
progress in social and political evolution of
the period in which we live.
	An enthusiastic supporter of Mr. Bryan
read to me his great Labor Day speech,
delivered in Chicago on Sep. 7. It cer-
tainly has a true ring in it from beginning
to end. Ignoring all minor questions, such
as tariff and finance, that might have con-
fused his audience—as they do everybody—
he dwells on the fundamental principles of
just government which, if carried out,
would secure equal rights to the thirty-five
millions disfranchised women,
	The ballot, as he describes it, in the hand
of every citizen would indeed be a scepter
of power; a crown of royalty. A man
who, as President of the United States,


would use his influence to carry out such
principles, I would be glad to see in the
highest position in the gift of the American
people.—Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honor-
ary President Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion.


