RECEPTION TO CLARA BARTON.
MISS CLARA BARTON, president of the
American Red Cross, was given a reception
at the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D. C.,
October 8. The chief decorations of the
parlors were flags of all nations, and the
orchestra played the national airs of the
principal countries of the world. Miss Barton
was assisted in receiving by Dr. Julius
Hubbell, field agent of the Red Cross, and
by Mr. A. M. Wister and Mr. George H.
Pullman, who accompanied her to Armenia.
	At the banquet covers were laid for one
hundred, on tables formed to represent six
large crosses of white with red stripes, like
emblems of the Red Cross Society.
The speakers were B. H. Warner, for
the citizens of Washington; Mrs. Sara
Spencer, on behalf of personal friends;
Commissioner Ross, for the District of
Columbia; Mrs. John A. Logan, on behalf
of wives, mothers and daughters of soldiers;
Mrs. M. B. Pratt, for the W. C. T. U. of
the district; Captain Huntoon, (instead of
Major McElroy,) for the G. A. R.; Mrs. 
Ellen Spencer Mussey, for women attor-
neys; Colonel Thomas Wilson, for the
Loyal Legion; Mrs. Ruth D. G. Havens,
for the Academy of Forty; Mrs. Sara D.
LaFetra, for the world’s W. C. T. U.; and
Mrs. Fannie Pomeroy, for the Legion of
Loyal Women. Secretary of the Navy
Herbert, who was among the guests, eulo-
gized. Miss Barton's work in organizing the
Red Cross so that it would exist as long as
the Government. Miss Barton in returning
her thanks said:
	Friends—If you ask of our mission what
we found and what we left, there is really
but this to say: We found want, desola-
tion and suffering, and relieved them so far
as we were able. In spite of all, these are
still there, and they have grown since.
Winter is approaching and unless the open
hands of charity, not of this country alone,
but of all civilized countries, be reached out
to them and access be secured, hunger and
cold will gather the victims in by the tens
of thousands, and bury them like the fall-
ing leaves beneath the snow."
	George A. Polk, financial secretary of
the society denied that the Sultan of Tur-
key had conferred a decoration on Miss Bar-
ton as had been reported. Miss Barton had
never spoken to the Sultan. Letters of
regret were read from Secretary Olney,
Postmaster-General Wilson, Secretary
Morton, Secretary Francis, General Greeley
and many others. - Ex.


THE recent National Council of Women
in Germany was a notable gathering.


