SUSAN VILATE MUIR.
	SUSAN VILATE MUIR, daughter of the late
Jedediah M. and Susan Grant, was born in Salt
Lake City, Utah, on the 19th day of September,
1855, and died at Randolph, Rich county, Utah,
on September 29, 1896, being 41 years and 9 days
old. She was married to William S. Muir, Jr., in
the year 1871 and moved from Bountiful to Ran-
dolph in 1888. She was an affectionate daughter,
a faithful wife, a loving mother and an earnest
and sincere Latter-day Saint, and as such will be
mourned by a host of relatives and friends. She
leaves a husband and ten children, four sons and
six daughters, her youngest being three weeks
old at the time of her death; she also leaves
two grandchildren. She was very highly esteem-
ed and her many good traits of character were
appreciated by the Saints where she resided.
Her funeral was largely attended by the good
people of Randolph and Woodruff and by
relatives from Salt Lake and Bountiful, and the
funeral sermon, preached by her brother, Elder
Heber J. Grant, was full of comfort and encour-
agement to the bereaved family and friends. May
she rest in peace till the morning of the first
resurrection, when she will be found worthy of
rich blessings in our Father’s kingdom.—[COM.
EMILY E. HILL.
	DIED, at Ogden City, Utah, October 11, 1896,
Emily Eliza Hill, beloved wife of Elder William
S. Hill and daughter of Thomas and Elisabeth
Maria Reeder, pioneer settlers in Wellsville,
Cache county, and later of Ogden City. She was
the first girl baby that was born in the then new
settlement of Wellsville on the 13th of November,
1859. She was baptized at eight years old, and
through her girlhood proved herself a very
affectionate child. When she was about 10 years,
of age she had a narrow escape from death, hav-
ing been accidentally shot in the forehead with a
rfflie bullet which glanced and only made a
severe scalp wound.
	On June 27, 1879, she was married at the House
of the Lord in Salt Lake City to Elder William S.
Hill, whom she accompanied in 1884 on a mis-
sion to settle in St. Johns, Arizona. They re-
mained there five years and then returned to

[Column 2]
Ogden. When she died she left behind her two
sons and five daughters, a new born babe dying
at its birth.
	The funeral took place from the Third ward of
Ogden city, Elders Joseph Parry and Henry
Newman testified to the deceased’s sterling
worth and faithfulness and the certainty to her of
an early and glorious resurrection and eternal
life.
				FRANCIS H. REEDER.
LYDIA DOWNER GATES.
	DIED in Wilson ward, Weber county, Utah, at
the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Willard Bing-
ham, at 12:30 a. m., Sunday, October 11, 1896,
after a short illness, Lydia Downer Gates, aged
86 years and 3 months. Mother Gates was born
in the state of Vermont, July 12, 1810; married
Samuel Gates in the year 1830, by whom she had
twelve children, eight of whom besides her hus-
band have long since preceded her to the spirit
land. She and her husband joined the Church in
Michigan at an early date, and soon after gather-
ed with the Saints. They were well acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, who had often
shared the hospitality of their humble dwelling
and for whom they always ertertained the highest
love and regard. They also willingly rendered
their mite in the erection of the Nauvoo Temple,
and were among the few who received their en-
dowments therein. They shared in all the perse-
cutions and drivings incident to that time; cross-
ing the Missouri river in early spring and set-
tling with the Camp of Israel, arriving in Utah in
1850. They settled in the spot where the old
Bingham fort (now called Five Points, Lynne dis-
trict) was built in Weber county, making this their
home, and which place widow Gates held pos-
session of the homestead up to the day of her
death, but had a short time since rented the
place and moved to live with her daughter in
Wilson Lane, from which place the corpse was
conveyed in a hearse to the Lynne meeting
house.
	The obsequies were conducted by Bishop
Smuin of Lynne ward, on Monday, October 12th,
1896, there being on the stand Elders L. W.
Shurtliff and C. F. Middleton of the Stake presi-
dency; Elder Lorin Farr, president of the High
Priest’s quorum; High Councilor Joseph Parry
of Ogden; Patriarch P. G. Taylor of Harrisville
Bishop Bingham of Riverdale; Bishop Backham
of Wilson Lane ward and others.
	After prayer and appropriate singing by the
choir, Bishop Smuin, Elders Farr and Parry, and
President L. W. Shurtliff spoke of the noble
career of Mother Gates for the sixty years of their
acquaintance with her, and said the legacy of
righteousness which she left to her offspring was
better than riches. None of them knew of any
faults in Mother Gates during their life-long ac-
quaintance, for she was never known to sit in the
seat of the scornful, or found complaining against
the Lord’s anointed, but was full to the brim
with charity and good works and was always
prompt to her meetings. She was fully up to the
standard in the payment of tithes and offerings,
even in her widowhood, and had nobly supported
the eternal order of marriage. Surely it can be
said she died the death of the righteous.
	The remains were viewed by a large concourse
of people. The features were as placid as in
balmy sleep. The pall bearers were her near
young relatives, who bore the beautiful white cof-
fin to the superb white hearse which was follow-
ed to the Ogden City cemetery by a host of
relatives and friends. The remains were con-
signed to rest in the Ogden cemetery till the
resurrection of the just.
							P. L.
ADELIA A. KIMBALL.
	DIED at Kanosh, Millard county, October 19,
1896, Adelia A. Kimball, aged 68 years, 7 months
and 17 days.
	She was the daughter of Catherine and Eber
Wilcox, and was born in Shandgo county, New
York. She was first married to William Hatton
who was killed by Indians in Fillmore, which
left her a widow with three small children, Wil-
liam, Henry and Mary Eliza. She was after-
wards married to President Heber C. Kimball
and lived in his family until her daughter Mary
Eliza was married to Abraham A. Kimball and
he was called on a mission to the Muddy. She
accompanied them and there she acted as presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The family after a
few years spent in that then inhospitable country,
moved north as far as Kanosh county, where she
has lived up to the time of her death. On Jan. 1,
1875 she was elected president of the Relief
Society of the Kanosh ward and for nearly


twenty-two-years has labored faithfully in that
capacity. She was well qualified for that posi-
tion, being a woman of kind and gentle disposi-
tion, always ready with the healing balm of
charity and spiritual counsel for the afflicted.
Her soul was full of peace to all mankind. She
was never known to endorse a slander or en-
courage gossip. She had a great reverence for
the Priesthood, and her presence brought with it
an influence of peace. Even the rudest boys up-
on the streets noted aunt Ade[-]ia’s approach, for
all who knew her loved her. For the last two
years her health has been failing, and for the last
year she has been mostly confined to her bed.
She was conscious to the last, and as the shadows
of this life bore down upon her and the horizon
of her bright reward was dawning, she called her
children and her grandchildren around her bed
and bore to them a faithful testimony of the truth
of the Gospel urging them to be true and stead-
fast in the great work of God, then silently passed
away. The immediate cause of death was catarrh
of the stomach and head, from which she suffered
greatly.
	The funeral was under the direction of the
ward Relief Society and was beautifully conduct-
ed. The procession walked from the residence
two blocks to the meeting hall; first came Presi-
dent I. N. Hinckley and Bishop Jessie Hopkin-
son, followed by two members of the High Coun-
cil then the Bishop’s counselors followed by six
veterans in the Priesthood, bearing in their hands
the beautiful casket containing the corpse then
followed the whole body of the Relief Society,
and lastly citizens of all ages and faith, did honor
to the deceased. The casket was placed in the
center of the hall and upon it stood a large cross
of new cut flowers.
	B. H. Watts, George Crane, James Abraham
and Bishop Hopkinson were the speakers and
President I. N. Hinckley endorsed all the good
things that had been said of our departed sister.
He counseled her offspring and all assembled to
emulate her life and example, as being among
the bright and faithful ones of this life. Then
was tenderly laid away the body of a rare mem-
ber of womankind, whose peaceful life leaves
sweet memories with all who knew her.
