IMPORTANT TO WOMEN.

	To all Presidents of the Relief Society in
all its numerous branches, and to all agents
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and to all wo-
men interested in the welfare of the sex we
wish to urge the necessity of active meas-
ures being taken to sustain their own wo-
man’s paper. The times demand woman’s
best thoughts wisely expressed, and the
EXPONENT has for nearly a quarter of a
century been the champion of woman’s
cause, and the promoter of woman’s pro-
gress. The occasion requires now that
some definite measures be taken to secure
subscriptions, and to collect those unpaid
in order to maintain its existence, some-
thing should really be done to revive the
enthusiasm of the sisters, and in keeping
awake the interest of those who are indif-
ferent to their own best good, so that they
may not lose the opportunity of giving ex-
pression to their ideas from time to time,
and of making a record of their charitable

[Column 2]
and philanthropic work as well as having a
repository of literary and historic produc-
tions and recording biographies of women
whose lives afford rich examples for the
youth of Zion to emulate. In fact the his-
tory of the women of the state, and of this
intermountain region is to be found in the
EXPONENT, and it is desirable that in the
condition of the present time, special atten-
tion should be given to home interests and
home industries; the silk industry is
practically woman’s work and in this parti-
cular line of making it a success we need a
woman's paper to communicate ideas, in-
struction and the best methods of procedure.
Surely the sisters can comprehend how
essential it is to have some avenue of in-
formation on so important a matter as seri-
culture. The EXPONENT has always been
awake to the importance of this special
work for women and children, and has al-
ways welcomed any correspondence upon
this subject.
	The prestige the EXPONENT has given
the women of this Church in the outside
world is little realized; it has broken down
mountains of prejudice, it has gone into the
homes of the rich, and the famous, poets,
writers, philosophers, people of rank and
title; besides it affords opportunity to the
Elders who are out preaching the Gospel to
allay much prejudice they have to meet.
Many are the testimonies of Elders who re-
turn from missions in regard to the good
effects of this little home paper. 
	There are more home industries than the
silk, to be sure, and our women should not
forget the straw work—but at present silk
seems uppermost and to attract the most
attention; and it touches the people more
as a source of revenue, and money seems to
be the present craze and in no way can the
cause of sericulture be so thoroughly venti-
lated as through a paper zealously devoted
to the home interests, home productions
and home industries. 
	If every president would send out canvas-
sers in her respective ward and secure ten
subscriptions it would go a long way to-
wards relieving the embarrasing situation.
	Remember President Zina D. H. Young
gave this positive counsel some time ago,
and requested that the President see to it
that one good agent or two be appointed
from each Society. Any letter addressed
to this office asking for information upon
this matter will be promptly answered.


