[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 918 | General Feature | Candy Animals A Family Tradition Leone | J. Layton]
Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society @ One of the days we looked forward to at Christmastime was the day when Mama brought out the old molds for the making of candy animals. The molds had belonged to Grandfather Robert Gardiner, who had been apprenticed to the trade of baker and confectioner in Dundee, Scotland, and had established a small candy factory in Salt Lake City, about 1868. There was real suspense in the making. Grandfather had not left the recipe for the candy, and Mama had to experiment each time. Would they be too soft? Would they come out of the molds without breaking? It was a great achievement to get the deer out with the horns intact, and the perfect one was a showpiece through the entire season. Each batch of candy was distinctive in color and flavor, the yellow ones were lemon, the pink anise, the green might be hme or peppermint. 918 Meet the many animals—especially the traditional Christmas animals—the donkey, the camel, the reindeer. Also, the horses have come for Christmas. Of course, we were not allowed to sample the animals, but as we were never able to judge just the right amount of candy to fill the molds, we dropped the remainder by spoonfuls on heavily oiled platters and, oh, how luscious were the flat, round, clear candies we might have to eat. If you were fortunate enough to have a grandfather (or anyone else) who gave you some molds, I pass on to you the recipe we found most successful. 2 c. Sugar Y, tsp. Salt (optional) lc. Light corn syrup food coloring Yc. Water any flavoring desired Combine sugar, corn syrup, and water. Cook slowly, stirring until sugar dissolves. Cook to hard crack stage, remove from heat, and pour quickly into molds that have been oiled (preferably with a heavy oil, such as olive oil), and heated. If you are not fortunate enough to have such molds, perhaps they may be borrowed or purchased, or, an experiment might be made using cookie cutters and attaching the two sides together with the warm candy mixture. Your family will love the flat discs of flavorsome color this recipe makes. ° Christmas Comes to Denmark 4 SASF Inga H. Nielsen Dougal (from Aarhus, Denmark) ® An old Danish custom demands that no visitor to your home during the Christmas season may be allowed to leave without having tasted your Christmas cookies (Klejner)—otherwise, you run the risk of the visitor "carrying the Christmas spirit " away. Transparencies by J M. Heslop A lovely table setting. Mrs. Dougal has placed her heirloom china on a snowy cloth. The pattern is called Kongelig Muselmalet, made by the Royal Copenhagen China Company, Copenhagen, Denmark. The pattern is over one hundred years old, and is still being made today. The design is hand painted by people who have had at least three years experience in china painting. Mrs. Dougal's Grandmother gave her most of the pieces, but she has supplemented with a few extras. She is wearing the national Danish costume. 920 Mix all ingredients together into a dough and set.. Aside to cool for about half an hour. Roll out thin Recipe for Klejner (Smalls) ) and cut into long strips about 11, inches wide. Cut the strips across diagonally into smaller strips about 4c. Flour 3¥, inches in length. In the middle of each of these P 1 c. Butter smaller pieces make a slash with the point of a v4 Comeet cream © knife. Pull one end of the piece through the slash 1 /p © — to form a half-knot. Drop into boiling fat and cook /2 tsp. Salt of -_— _ I until golden brown, turning now and then with a fork. Lift out with a perforated spoon and place in a strainer to allow the fat to drip off. Makes approximately 150. Vanilla or lemon peel a F ~~. Be é seo 2 yr a - A, I 4. % -. + wy nt le. Ie # VU: (Se a rt: em Gat ee 30 = phy oot "t perma - =~. Bi ee. Eae a Pealtr::::. A & - cama An heirloom replica of the first Christmas. Note the "stone" towers, the arched gate, the camels at the end of their far journey—the mother and the child. This setting for the Christmastime has given joy to many children, and to grownups, as well. The delicately carved figurines are beautifully colored and placed with care.

921 ASASEA SZ, Christmas Is for Friends SASA4575 Tasma P. Dansie A woman who lives alone invites her friends to dinner Transparencies by J M. Heslop Wedgewood table setting, with pink can figurines for centerpiece. Dles, crystal, and silver. Clustered white ® Plan a casserole as the main dish when you entertain your friends during the holiday season. Begin the dinner with a fruit cup—perhaps a mixture of orange, grapefruit, and pineapple segments, interspersed with maraschino cherries for sparkling color; prepare a tossed green salad (with radishes); and, for dessert, thin slices of fruit cake, or frosted homemade eclairs. Recipes for three favorite casseroles are given here. Perhaps you will want to try them all during the holidays. Pieces of turkey could be substituted for chicken in two of the casseroles. Chicken-Broccoli Casserole 2 tbsp. Flour Add milk to make a thick paste or use one can of cream of chicken soup (10 ounces) in place of the milk. Pour over chicken. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake slowly about 1 hour in 300° oven, cover dish with aluminum foil. 922 1 to 2 lbs. Broccoli (parboil) Brown 4 to 6 chicken breasts in butter. Make white sauce by mixing: ¥, square butter (2 ounces) Chicken Parisienne Place 4 large or 6 medium-sized chicken breasts, skinned side up, in an 11 x 7 x 1%, inch baking dish. Combine 1 can (13 ounces) condensed milk and one can (10 ounces) mushroom soup, and 1 3-ounce can or 7/4, cup mushrooms and liquid with 1 c. Dairy sour cream. Pour over uncooked chicken and sprinkle generously with paprika. Bake at 300° for 1 to 14, hours or until tender and a golden brown. Serve over hot, fluffy rice. Ground Beef Casserole 1 lb. Ground beef 1 c. Uncooked rice 1 large onion (chopped and 1 c. Chopped celery (uncooked, sautéed in oil) finely chopped) 1 can cream of mushroom soy sauce, salt, and pepper to taste soup (10 ounces) Brown the beef in a large frying pan. Add the chopped onion, cream soup, rice, and seasoning, and cook slowly until done, approximately one hour. Just before removing from heat add the celery. It should be crisp when eaten.: " Seated around the table, left to right: Zina Harper, granddaughter; Emma L. Thomas, lifelong friend; Edith P. Johnson, Tasma's sister; Tasma, at right.