[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 931 | General Feature | Hobby Features: Lula Jameson Taylor, Martha Jane | Chappel Head]
[Hobby Features: Lula Jameson Taylor, Martha Jane Chappel Head]
Lula irewwen Tester, Loa Ward, Wayne Stake, Utah, ae remaining cunnattinn to keeping busy. She will be eighty-six years old soon and enjoys many interesting and fulfilling hobbies and activities. She makes quilts, crochets doilies, makes pillows, rugs, and many other articles of handwork, which grace her home and the homes of many relatives and friends. She does a great deal of gardening and yard work, including mowing the lawn each week. She enjoys baking bread and cookies. She has served in the Relief Society presidency and is still an active visiting teacher. She seldom misses a meeting. She is the mother of fourteen children, grandmother of fifty-seven, and greatgrandmother to sixty-four. ~, Martha Jane Chappel Head, Young © Stake, Farmington, New Mexico, *- celebrated her one hundreth. Birthday in November. She was baptized into the Church in 1884, when the entire Catawaba Indian * tribe, of which she was a member ssa ~ jin South Carolina, joined. Sister Head is the mother of twelve eueinaan: There are twenty-eight grandchildren, ninety-nine great-grandchiidren, and three great-great-grandchildren. She has always loved working in her garden and throughout her life she has sewed for her children, and she is still an expert knitter, and loves to teach this art to her grandchildren. She is an excellent cook. Sister Head has served in many positions in Relief Society, and still enjoys attending her meetings. 931 's I Michele a as told by Annette Giles Chapter 2 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles is disquieted by a discussion with Steve Rey, a young man whom she has been dating, who tells her he is not ready to marry. Although she is in no hurry to marry, for she is convinced that there is something else she must do first, his attitude worries her. Her parents sense that Jennifer is uncertain about several things and suggest a trip to visit Bea McPherson, a recently widowed cousin, in Houston, Texas. UJ ennifer settled herself in the luxury of the beautiful home that John McPherson had left his wife. The air conditioning felt too good for words to express. Jennifer commented on_ the beauty of the large, exquisite home. "Yes," Bea said, "it is lovely. While John was alive it was full of happiness and sunshine, but now it seems too big and too 932 lonely, although I would hate to give it up." It was obvious to Jennifer that the oil business was a prosperous one, for the furnishings of the house and the grounds left nothing to be desired, although the comforts of her family home in Springville appealed more to Jennifer's tastes. "Do Randy and _ his wile spend much time with you?" Jennifer asked, referring to John's older son by a previous marriage, whom Bea had reared along with a younger boy Dean, who was serving a mission in Taiwan. "Oh, yes," Bea's face lit up. She had been twenty years old when she married John, Randy had been seven and Dean scarcely four.
