Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon UGUST—Like the richness of a summer day is the hightide of life. HE bookshops and magazine racks are full of light reading for the vacationist for summertime is the harvest for the novelist and short story writer.. ARY ROBERTS RINEHART in her latest book, "The Doctor", is more sincere and less imaginative than usual. The book continues among the best sellers. AOMI JACOB in her new novel "The Founder of the House," gives a fine portrayal of Jewish family life and traditions, also a vivid picture of Paris and gay Vienna during the early part of the last century. ARY MASTERS NEEDHAM and Sarah M. Cleghorn have each contributed interesting biographies to recent publications— "Tomorrow to Fresh Fields," and "Threescore," are the titles. MARGARET MITCHELL'S first novel—''Gone With the Wind', was the choice of the Bookof-the-Month Club for July. It has an Atlanta background highly colored with Civil War incidents. LANCHE KENDALL McKEY won the contest prize with her pageant for the Ogden pioneer celebration. UEEN MARY received the Royal Victorian Order—Dame Grand Cross, from her son Edward VIII on his 42nd birthday. OROTHY H. EUSTIS was given a gold medal by the National Institute of Social Sciences for distinguished service rendered to humanity. MBs: ISABEL BLUME and Mrs. M. Adere are the only women members of the Belgian chamber of deputies. MiSs MAUD YOUNGER, prominent social, political and suffrage worker, Dame Henrietta Barnett, noted English welfare worker, Johyna Howland, veteran actress, and Julia Field, widow of Eugene Field, the poet were among the notables who died recently. ARINA, Duchess of Kent, is the arbiter of fashion in English court circles. At present she has a flair for ostrich feathers on her hats. SALLY STEARNS, 21, coxswain of the Rollins College crew, led her rowers to victory over the Manhatten crew. The husky fellows were somewhat chagrinned to be beaten by a girl. HELEN JACOBS, American tennis champion was again winner this year at Wimbledon both in the finals and semi-finals. ETTY ROBINSON of Chicago, and 15 other American girls expect to enter the Olympic games at Berlin this summer. There are six events for women—track, hurdles, javelin and discus throws, 4x100 meter relay and high jump.