In Memoriam By Elizabeth Sport Stowell N THE passing of our beloved Sister Floretta Ricks Webster, we of the Rexburg Stake are not alone in our grief. Although she lived practically all of her life on the same lot where she was born, she was known the length and breadth of the upper Snake River Valley, for her helpful, sunny friendliness. Not quite fifty years of age she had given so much of her life to public service that it seemed that surely she must have lived many more years than she did. From her earliest girlhood she took an active and important part in the life of this community. She was one of the first Presidents of the Civic League which founded our public library; she was the principal organizer of the Daughters of the Pioneers of the Upper Snake River Valley and. Was serving as its president at the time of her death; she was a member of the Relief Society Stake Board for fifteen years. Her lovely home, her car, her own indefatigable energy, were at all times at the call of the Relief Society. The members of the remotest Ward knew her personally and loved her for her cheerful council and hearty encouragement. She was an inspired leader. In our serious hours, spent with perplexing problems, she always lifted the clouds of worry with the sunshine of her smile and the gallantry of her aid showed us the worth of her soul and the loyalty of her heart. When we have _ had = sorrows, though she had her own, her winsome laugh and ready humor, eased the tension and drove away our fears. She was the essence of cheerfulness and optimism and the radiation of them and her genial disposition were attributes of her wonderful person- 'ality. She chose always to stand on the bright side rather than in the shadow. She lived to express in body, mind and soul all that was high, beautiful, serene and ideal in her nature; thus giving unbounded joy and inspiration to all who knew her. In her home, she reigned as a queen meriting the love, honor, and respect of her husband and children, who idolized and revered her. She was always a jolly playmate and pal to her sons; she leaves an example of true womanhood for her daughter. May the influence of her wonderful life be an inspiration to all who knew her, and her memory a cherished treasure of unselfish devotion.