Importance of Diet for the Expectant Mother By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education
[This is the first of a series of articles on "Nutrition," by Miss Cox, who has studied the subject with Mary Swartz Rose, Dr. Henry Sheinar of Columbia University, New York, Dr. Lafayette B. Mendell of Yale, and Dr. E. V. McCollum of Johns Hopkins.?Editors.]
Health is an 'asset. It is something to be actively sought. Every expectant mother should desire health for herself and unborn child. In order to accomplish this she should live in accordance with the health rules prescribed by her physician. Plenty of fresh air, exercise, and sleep are most necessary during this period of physical change. Good appetite and digestion, proper elimination, and restful sleep do not result where there is mental turmoil. Equanimity of mind is an important factor toward good health. Worry of any kind and uncontrolled emotional disturbances are very deleterious at this time. Effort should be made to carefully avoid, or control, these perplexities. Recent findings from feeding experiments on animals have given more positive information on the diet of the expectant mother than was formerly known. These studies have emphasized the importance of ash constituents in the daily diet. As it is impossible to build a house without brick, it is equally preposterous to expect to build bones, teeth, nerves and tissues of the embryo without furnishing in the mother's diet the necessary food elements in right proportions. Lack of these elements in the diet of the expectant mother have resulted in illness, nervous instability, and loss of hair and teeth. The old saying that "every baby means a tooth" might well be interpreted into "imperfect diet for the pregnant woman means loss of teeth, hair and general physical tone." This is true because the tissues from the mother's body are sacrificed when necessary, in order that the child may approach normality. Recent studies have also shown that sacrifice of the tissues of the mother are needless when the food supply is adequate. Formerly the accepted definition of food was that food is anything which taken into the body, furnishes heat and energy or builds tissues. The present description of food includes another important additional requirement. The new standard asks that food must also regulate the body processes. This last requirement is the result of careful study and experimentation on the importance and use of the so-called ash constituents or mineral salts.


The present dietary customs of the extensive use of fats, starches, sugars, and meats have decreased the former wide use of one or more of the so-called protective foods?milk, green and root vegetables, and fruits. These three classes of foods are especially important in supplying the body with the three ash constituents most frequently lacking in the average American diet. These three elements are calcium, phosphorous and iron, The chief source of calcium is milk, and it is needed for all skeletal and cell structures. Among other things, it helps to control irritability of muscle including heart muscle, and clotting of blood. It also neutralizes acidity. Sherman's experiments indicates that a quart of milk per day is necessary in the individual diet in addition to the calcium obtained from fruits, vegetables, and coarse cereal products. Where there are extra demands for skeletal development this requirement should be somewhat increased. The custom of some pregnant women taking a bedtime lunch of milk and crackers can be recommended. Other important sources of calcium are, almonds, beans, brown bread, cheese, walnuts, turnip tops, egg yolks, and carrots. Phosphorous is also a necessary constituent for skeletal development. It is used in cell growth and also helps to control any excess of acid. The chief sources of phosphorous are asparagus, almonds, barley, beans, chocolate, cheese, egg yolks, graham flour, pomegranate, rye, shredded wheat, spinach, turnip tops, lean meats and milk. Iron is necessary for the development of red corpuscles in the blood. It carries oxygen, is used also for cell activities. Its chief sources are cheese, egg yolk, maple syrup, raisins, spinach, lettuce, nuts, squash, beet tops, oatmeal, carrots, and onions. Chemical analysis shows that there is a higher percentage of iron in the tissues of the young infant than at any other time. This extra supply is to tide over the nursing period and necessitates therefore that the expectant mother pay special attention to foods containing this important element. In feeding experimental diets to animals it has been found that calcium free diets for pigeons will produce perforated breast bones and that other bones of the test animals are also found to be imperfect. Additional proof has been found by several experiments carried on by different men which shows that calcium or lime in the diet is necessary for bone growth. Experiments such as these lead on to wonder what the x-ray would show in the bones of pregnant and nursing mothers whose diet has been deficient in calcium and phosphorous over a long period of time. Dr. McCollum, at Johns Hopkins University, as well as Dr. Mendell of Yale, have proved conclusively through experimental studies on rats and guinea pigs and through the examination of
DIET FOR EXPECTANT MOTHERS 33
they are usually of good size and shape. When there is this arches are often the result of imperfect diet. The shape of the tooth arch as well as the size and shape of the teeth themselves periods cannot be overemphasized. There are also Opinions which are not always right relative fort by feeling that they are not eating enough for the new responsibility, During the first five months the food requirein the food demand is during the last eight weeks of pregnancy as during this period the child doubles its weight. It might also be stated that some women foolishly limit their food intake. Of digestive disturbances. Lack of mastication or bolting of food decreases distinction of flavor. Good mastication intensifies palatability, flavor, odor, and texture and improves digestion. Good digestion regulates appetite, In order to maintain a healthy intestinal tract proper elimination must be given attention. Some causes of constipation are listed below:, 1. Lack of organic acids. (The chief sources of these are fruits, although a little is found in vegetables. This is additional


argument for having some fresh fruit in the diet every day. The organic acid in apples is malic, in oranges it is citric.) 2. Lack of ballast. (When diet consists of sweets, starches, fats, and meats.) 3. Too constant irritation. (Some intestinal linings become irritated by continued use of coarse cereal mixtures and breads.) Irregular eating and evacuation. Laziness. (Exercise is necessary for intestinal health.) Intestinal obstruction. Construction of abdominal organs. Weakened muscles. Nervous disturbances. (Anger, fear or other emotional disturbances. ) 10. Astringents. (The skins and. Seeds of fruits are astringent). 11. Too frequently use of laxatives. This cuts down motility of intestines. Not good to use any one medicine for too long a period.: 12. Constant taking of enemas. 13. Too little moisture?Liberal use of water is very important. There is also another very important food factor which requires consideration, but as the "protective foods" already discussed are the chief sources the vitamines further discussion will be deferred until the next lesson which will deal with Diet for the Nursing Mother. In general, interpretation of the above principles relative to the diet of the expectant mother means an easily digested diet containing some laxative foods, such as fruits, green leaf vegetables, and cereals. The meat consumption should not be more than a small serving a day. Root vegetables are also valuable because of their ash constituents as well as laxative properties. Additional protein can be furnished in an easily digestible form in the quart of milk a day requirement. Eggs may also be used for additional protein. If the above listed foods are used generously the ash and vitamine requirements will be met.