There are being hurled at boys and girls throughout this Church cheap, immodest, immoral bits of art, and you and I sit by in indifference. Copies of good pictures are obtainable at very little expense. I would that we could fill our homes with the pictures that reflect great truths. Women Take Office Not only the women but the men of the nation also, will keep a watchful eye on the new governors of Texas and Wyoming, for these are women. The task of Mrs. Miriam Ferguson and Mrs. W. B. Ross will be far from easy. Time out of mind, woman's care. Has been human welfare, while man's has been business. The men will therefore, probably, measure the success of these governors by one standard and the women by another. It will be difficult to meet both requirements. If they shall be able to pay more attention to the social needs of their people than their brothers would do, without neglecting their finanicial necessities, they should be regarded as successful. At all events, the woman executive in the political field is on trial. Let us hope that these women will prove as efficient in this office as many of their sisters have done in executive places in the business world, and there is no reason why they should not. Other political laurels have come to women this year. Florence E. S. Knapp, head of the College of Home Economics of Syracuse University, takes the office of Secretary of State in New York, and Mary T. Norton, wife of a manufacturer in New Jersey, has been elected to the Congress of the United States, from the twelfth district of that state. She is highly educated, and is actively interested in social welfare work. There have been women in other congresses, but Mrs. Knapp is the first one to be elected Secretary of State, and Mrs. Ferguson and Mrs, Ross are first woman governors. The rain comes pelting down and then The sun begins to shine again, One day misfortune comes along, The next we sing a cheerful song, But when it all is understood, The greater part of life is good. —Kuingsley. EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.::::: - -:: CrarissA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor -:: - -: - - Atce Loutsz REYNOLDS Business Manager -: - - - - - -:: JeanetTts A. Hvve Assistant Manager -:: - -::: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol XII JANUARY, 1925 No. 1