[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Monson]
[LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Nephites and Lamanites Become a United People Leland H. Monson]
ARKER Josephson left on his mission to the Hawaiian Islands. 611 Marie cheered up almost immediately. "It is better not to be really promised to a person in this situation," she told Annie. "If I were, I'd have to miss all the fun this winter." "There're lots of other fish, you mean,' Aunt Agnes remarked dourly. Marie laughed, ""That's not what I meant, but you wouldn't want me to miss the dances and parties with the other young people, would you?" "Not to be thought of." Aunt Agnes dropped a peeled potato in the salted water. Annie stood by the window watching the snow fall. 'This was to be her last winter with the Williams. She really shouldn't let herself think about it, for her emotions were now so mixed up. She would be so happy to be with her family again and to see her brothers every day, but now she was sure she would be homesick for the Williams, her second family. 'The time had passed so much more quickly than she had dreamed it would, when she had run after her father's wagon that early dawn almost four years ago. She and Marie had grown up together. She had never had a sister, and now she had had one she was going to lose her. She looked at Marie with affection. She was like a gay butterfly haphazardly helping Aunt Agnes with the dinner. Annie decided she'd better get busy herself and quit mooning at the snow. After all, her family would be living close enough to Salt Lake City so there would be visits sometime. Annie and Marie both received 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 letters from Parker Josephson, though the mail took such a long time coming the letters were months old before they heard. Annie hid her letter away with another older letter and refused to think about it. Marie read her letter aloud to the family and: showed everyone who called. Parker obviously wrote with affection and high regard for her. There was no question but that Marie regarded Parker as belonging to her. Annie felt she had no right to think of Parker, and did not answer this letter as she had not answered that other letter. Nevertheless, there were many nights when Annie watched the shadows on her window, waiting for sleep to come, while Marie lay curled up like a ball, her dimpled fist tucked beneath her sheet, oblivious to everything. Professor Peterson gave Annie a lovely scroll indicating the years' study she had completed, and commenting on her unusual abilities as a student. But the biggest surprise was yet to come. "The Walter Academy has. Selected Annie as a teacher for next year. It is a great honor for a girl as young as she." Professor Peterson beamed at Sister Williams. Marie squealed with delight. "Annie, you won't have to go away, after all. You'll stay in Salt Lake City. You can even live with us, if you don't have to live at the Academy!" Sister Williams smiled with relief. "Annie, my dear, we won't be losing you after all. You'll still be able to visit your parents occasionally, but you'll have all the comforts that you have been used to." NNIE. Thanked Professor Peterson; her mind was in a turmoil. This was a way, an opportunity for her future, most certainly. But what of her parents? After all these years, surely they would be disappointed if she didn't return to their home with them. Sister Williams saw the hesitation in her eyes. "Annie, dear, of what use could you be to your parents on a farm? You can be so much more use here in a lovely school. Think of the privations your father's farm has to offer a brilliant, lovely girl who is prepared with a fine education to teach in one of the best educational establishments _ available. 'There is no question, my dear, but that you must accept this opportunity." "There is no question but that I'm thankful for this opportunity, and that I am indeed tempted to accept it without question, but I must counsel with my parents before I can give any definite decision." Annie forced herself to consider the possibility that she would not be able to accept it. "There, there." Professor Peterson wiped his brow. "I'm sure there is no unreasonable hurry. Of course, if you must wait until you have seen your parents, then you must. I will find out what reasonable length of time I can obtain for you before you decide. It is, after all, only a month or two until your father moves his family down from the mountains." That night Annie buried her face into her pillow. 'There was another reason she yearned to remain in Great Salt Lake City. A reason she must not admit even to herself. HEART'S BOUNTY She got up and found Parker's letter in her little trunk. It was too dark to read it, but she knew the words off by heart. "Annie, you are the one I am counting on seeing when I return. May all the blessings of heaven go with you." These two lines in a long letter recounting the wonders of his mission and the blessings he was receiving day by day had emblazoned themselves on her mind. But what of Marie? Her heart's tumult slowly subsided. She was faced with important decisions that she must make soon. She knelt by her bed until thoroughly chilled but, comforted, she felt enough at peace to sleep. ITH the coming spring, Annie's parents moved from the mountains with their sons to their small farm north of Great Salt Lake City. Brother Gnffith took his family straight there, so they might begin repairs and start work. The first necessary trip to Salt Lake came shortly after, when he came to the Williams' house to take Annie home. The long hours of work repairing their home and barn had made her father seem more weary and older than Annie expected. But she greeted him with a surge of joy. How could she wait to see the rest of her family? "We'll start ght off tomorrow morning. I expect you don't have much to pack?" "Why, Father, I have a whole trunk of things. Brother and Sister Williams have been most generous." Annie smiled at him. "We've no better friends in the whole world. It. Must be a sad 613 wrench to your heart to be leaving them. But I've wonderful news to cheer you up. I have been to see the Davis family on my way down. Old Sister Davis is starting a school for the children in Davisville, and I've told them all about you. 'There's no question but that you can teach there next year, and it will be not such a long ride that you can't stay at home, though if the snow gets too bad in the middle of the winter, you may, on occasion, sleep in the old Davis home where there's plenty of room. But you'll be able to help your mother now, and _ that will be a real comfort to her. Oh, she'll be surprised at the young lady 'm bringing home. She's not been so well this last year. 'This mountain living has taken its toll of her health, no question." Annie buried her face in her father's rough coat. "Tl be ready in the morning. [I'm a fast worker, you'll see." After her father had gone, Marie cried out that Annie was silly not to have, at least, mentioned the other offer to her father. But Sister Williams told her to hold her peace. "Annie knows what she must do," Sister Willams said firmly. "There'll be too much work, I'm afraid, for your family on the farm." Annie straightened her shoulders. "They've been counting on me to help, Sister Williams. I'm glad you see how it is; why I couldn't hesitate to go home." She put her arms around Sister Williams' shoulder. "How will I ever be able to say goodbye?" Aunt Agnes abruptly tried to leave the room, but not before Annie had kissed her also. "It will be 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 almost more than I can bear to leave you, Aunt Agnes, for truly, if you were my real aunt, you couldn't have been a better friend to me." Aunt Agnes buried her face in her apron. "Annie, Annie," came her muffled voice. "We'll miss you, my girl." THE ride home was beautiful, though the wagon floundered in ruts and "erked them unmercifully. Spring hovered in the valley. W4Allows budded green, and birds sang on and on. The house was much, much smaller than Annie remembered, and the farm truly looked abandoned and in need of much work. Her father was already more than anxious to be home to start on the planting. Long before they reached the house, the boys and her mother had seen them coming and came running to meet them. The soil on their farm was rich and dark, and Annie and her mother soon had vegetables pushing upward in straight, green rows. They worked on the house, more often than not alone, since the boys and their father spent every spare moment in the fields. There was little music except on Sundays for the Griffith family that year. Annie looked at her hands, which had browned and hardened from the hard work. She was often too exhausted to do more than wash her face. "It's a shame, Annie, for you to have to work so hard. You will be too tired to teach in the fall.' Her mother, exhausted, had had to let Annie take over the heavy scrubbing of the clothes. "Nonsense," Annie exclaimed, "I can rest all winter. Teaching won't be difficult; it will be fun." To herself, however, she vowed to get out some of her books. She thought she must be forgetting everything she had ever known. The long ride to the Davis home where the school was held, was beautiful in the fall, but it soon became apparent that Annie could not continue using the small wagon, as it was often needed by the Griffith family. She began riding her horse, which, as winter came, floundered through the drifts, but always brought Annie safely to school. The long ride and the care of the rooms where the school was held, began to wear on Annie, and the teaching itself proved much more strenuous than she had imagined. She had sixteen children in almost half as many grades, and all her inventiveness was soon put to use to keep them all working at the same time. Her brothers and some of the children and she chopped the wood for the two stoves in the two rooms that they used, and often Annie stayed after the children had gone home to clean the rooms for the next day. As the days grew shorter, it was more often than not long after dark before she rode up the lane to the Griffith house. Her father worried about Annie because, as he expressed it, "Annie, you were slim before, but you're like a willow-wand now." And Annie worried because she was unable to relieve her mother as much as she had during the summer of the heavy household work. It was in November that Annie received a letter from the Williams family. The letter from Marie she HEART'S BOUNTY read first of all. It was full of blots and dashes, but the import sprang from the page. Marie was to be married to Billy Johnson at Christmas time! Christmas time had been chosen especially so that Annie would be free to come for the reception. For Marie could not be married unless Annie was there. Of course, the whole Gniffith family was invited. Annie was to stay with them, and if there wasn't room for the whole family there, the others could stay at friends' homes who would be happy at the privilege of having them. "Annie," the letter concluded, "you can't possibly know how happy [ am!" Annie sat at the kitchen table and re-read the letter. There was no mention of Parker Josephson. "Of course you must go. They are your second family, and Marie has been a true sister to you." Annie's mother pushed more wood into the stove. "Perhaps we all can go, but, if not, at least you and Papa will make the trip. Let's see, December twenty-second. You can even make it home again without any trouble at all in time for Christmas. If you leave the day after the reception, you'll have an extra day in case you are stopped anywhere by heavy snow." Annie nodded her head. It would be wonderful to see the Williams again, but she could not think of Marie as married. Marie seemed so young, but, perhaps, she seemed so because they had always treated her so. Her heart couldn't still its excited pounding. One thing spoke itself again and again to Annie. Marie was not going to marry Parker. 615 Annie and her father made the trip quite comfortably to Salt Lake City in December. 'This was one of the few winters when the snow was not heavy, and the team made good time all the way. Marie overwhelmed Annie with her bubbling excitement. 'They had had a dress made for Annie, as she was to stand up with Marie at the reception. Annie protested that she had brought her good dress the Williams had been kind enough to have given her the year before, but Sister Williams insisted with such gentle firmness, that Annie decided it would be bad taste not to yield to her pride at such a time. Once she had seen the dress, there was no question of pride. The dress was yards and yards of pale blue sky with a creamy cloud of tucked lace at the throat. Slight alterations were made to give the bodice a perfect fit. "Annie, you've lost almost an inch at the waist,' Aunt Agnes exclaimed disapprovingly, with her mouth full of pins. Annie slept in their old room with Marie the night before the marriage in the Endowment House, and the reception which was to follow in the evening. Marie wanted to talk and talk about her beloved Billy, but Annie had strict orders that Marie was to go to sleep at once and get her rest. "You should see the beautiful crystal the Josephsons have given me," Marie exclaimed. Annie waited. "Sister Josephson said that Parker would want his little sister to have a beautiful gift. Her very words. Parker was always so wonderful to us. We both had such 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 silly crushes on him. Do you remember, Annie, when he? "Marie, dear, I promised your mother not to talk, but to let you sleep." "That's all nght, Annie; anyway, you're not talking, I am. Then I'll go straight off to sleep. What was I saying?" "Something about Parker?" Annie lay staring into the darkness. "Remember how I always insisted I'd marry Parker when I grew up. It's funny when you really grow up, you find out that you don't decide whom you're going to marry in such a cold-blooded way. I fell in love with Billy. Annie, remember how mean I used to be to him when we were little. He says now I'll have all time and eternity to make it up to him for teasing him so. Oh, I want to be the best possible wife. I know I've been terribly lazy and inefficient as a girl at home, but I'm going to be a real wife to Billy. Do you believe I can be, Annie?" Annie slipped out of her warm covers and took Marie's hands in her own. "I know you can, Marie. I know you can." 'Then she kissed her goodnight, and the two girls fell asleep at last. THE day of Marie's wedding was to remain a blur of excitement for Annie. 'The house had been polished until it shone and was redolent with delicious odors. 'The dark, heavily fruited wedding cakes made one's mouth water. But still women continued feverishly to prepare for the reception—last minute flower arrangements, the chairs (many borrowed), the candles, the gowns. 'Through it all Marie clung to Annie. "I want you near me, Annie. You've always given me some of your strength." The tip downtown to the Endowment House at last commenced. There was a difference in Marie as soon as the ceremony was actually over. As Marie back at home rested in her room for the reception, Annie sat by the window quietly. Marie did not need her now. Annie had seen her come out of the Lord's House with her arm in Billy Johnson's. Solemnity of wifehood for all eternity rested upon her. Billy Johnson had grown up considerably since Annie had noticed his early infatuation for Marie, and Marie's constant teasing had nearly broken his heart. His chin was firm now, and his slight build had filled out. How well he looked in his black wedding-day suit! His square shoulders would prove a helpful companion, but not a crutch. Billy took Annie's hand at the reception. "I have no words proper enough to thank you for the friendship you've shown Marie. I hope our home will be as much yours in the future as the Williams' has been in the past." Annie only could cling to both their hands for a moment. At last the waltzing began. The drawing room and dining room floors shone like mirrors in the light from the chandeliers. Billy and Marie led the first waltz. Only then did he seem the old Billy to her. He had lost none of his grace on the dance floor. Marie's face was pretty as a flower, and there were bursts of applause as they circled the room. HEART'S BOUNTY Again the evening blurred for Annie. Someone had put a cup of punch in her hand, and she tried to sip it. She wasn't prepared for such festivities, for such a wonderfilled day, for saying goodbye to the girl Marie. OK OK KOK HE day after the reception the Griffiths started home. Again they were able to make good time, though this time the back of the wagon was loaded with supplies and packages, many of which were Christmas gifts from the Williams and other friends. 'They unloaded the wagon after the boys were safely <> 617 in bed, since some of the gifts were Christmas surprises for them. Sister Griffith caught Annie's hand and held her a moment after their family prayer. "Annie, I[ almost dreaded tonight. I thought you might come back dissatisfied or unhappy with your hard life here, but you have a sweet peace in your face tonight. Your father and I appreciate that, Annie. You are a dear, good daughter." I have peace in my heart also, Annie's thoughts sang to herself as she kissed her mother goodnight. Peace in my heart. (To be continued ) Shis Ys September Zara Sabin It was springtime on the Devon Downs We rambled in the rain, scarce knowing And not caring, that the grass Crushed by our feet, was lush and sweet; That buttercups and daisies flecked 'The meadows where we passed. You took my hand to lift me from the stile; Then, hard arms held me and I turned My glowing face to meet the old And timeless question which was asked And answered as I raised my head. Clear, across the world, We heard the vesper bells tell out the hour Suddenly the air was cold. A lone lark sang, as it soared away, A sad and lonely roundelay Our close-pressed lips clung closer yet And with more than rain our cheeks were wet. Spring's fires linger like a slow-burning ember Linger and haunt me, though this is September! Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Fanny S. Kienitz UNIVERSITY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) CONDUCTS WORK MEETING May 29, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Sarah Barrett, Second Counselor; Ethel Goates, First Counselor; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Fanny S. Kienitz, President, University Stake Relief Society. Second row, seated, left to right: Elsie Belliston, literature class leader; Etta Cowles, Magazine representative; Flora Woolf, theology class leader; Eva Heaton, Secretary; Erma Kunzler, social science class leader; Clara Swan, work meeting leader; Annie Jensen, chorister; Beth Warnick, organist. Back row, standing, left to right, ward presidents: Olive Coombs, Elizabeth Zwahlen, Johannah Simmons, Florence Wiseman, Virginia James, Annie Ballantyne, Mae Brunker, Maud Woolley. President Kienitz reports a successful and happy work meeting: "All eight wards Page 618 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619 were represented. The day began at ten a. M. Invocation was offered by Grace Colton of the University Ward presidency. Each ward planned its own work, which included: quilting, textile painting, crocheting slippers, making flowers, hot pads, animal toys, etc. The stake board displayed articles which could be made by the Relief Societies, if they desired. There was also a display on food preparation. Book binding was under the direction of the stake board. Stake chorister Annie Jensen played her accordion and led the women in community singing while they worked during part of the morning hours. We were pleased to have Blanche Stoddard of the general board of Relicf Society with us in the morning. General President Belle S. Spafford met with us at the lunch hour, and also our Stake President, W. W. Kirton Jr. The stake board served lunch to approximately 225 women.... After lunch the women of the University Ward sang a song they had composed about the shirts they were sewing for welfare. 'I'wo numbers, one a novelty song, were presented by the West Twelfth Ward trio, Violet Reese, Lillian Holmberg, and Rosa Phillips. Sister Holmberg then played two violin selections. "President Kienitz presented President Spafford with an orchid and a check for $370 to be used to help furnish the new Relief Society Building. We were honored to have President Spafford tell us some of her experiences in regard to the building." Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) PRESENTS NARRATION "THE NEW WITNESS FOR CHRIST" AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION May 29, 1956 I Front row, seated, left to right: Gladys Rusk, visiting teacher message leader; Mollie E. Richardson, First Counselor; Della H. Teeter, President; J. R. Barnes, narrator; Leona Haslam, Second Counselor, director of the narration; Amy Novokarich, narrator, literature class leader, Aileen Brown, organist; Reta Beck, chorister and director of Singing Mothers. President Teeter reports that the summer visiting teacher messages were introduced at this convention, and the Singing Mothers presented the music and choral readings. 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Eva H. Jensen MORGAN STAKE (UTAH), MILTON WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR EIGHT YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Helen Daw; Eunice Lake; Nettie Gordor; May Thurston; Norine Giles, President; Clara Mecham; Reta Mecham, visiting teacher message leader; Alice Mecham; Annie Taylor. Back row, standing, left to mght: Verna Nelson; Olga Hannum; Ella Barnum; Catherine Madson; Hazel Spendlove, Second Counselor; Laura Spendlove, First Counselor; Larrine Preece; Helen Nelson; Ada Mecham; Ireta Jenson; Ida Mae Clark; Della Spendlove; Lola Gordor; Ella Jones. Eva H. Jensen is president of Morgan Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nettie P. Smoot NORTHERN STATES MISSION, NAUVOO (ILLINOIS) RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED Left to right: Melinda Flake, Counselor, Nauvoo District Relief Society; Nellie Gano, Counselor, Nauvoo District Relief Society; Rena B. Custer, President, Nauvoo NOTES FROM THE FIELD 621 District Relief Society; Annie R. Call, Second Counselor, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Nettie P. Smoot, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Betty Cahoon, First Counselor, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Reva Wicker, Second Counselor, Nauvoo Branch Relief Society; Mary A. Busard, President, Nauvoo Branch Relief Society. Margie Cox, First Counselor, and Naomi Cox Payne, Secretary of the Nauvoo Branch Relief Society, were not present when the picture was taken. President Nettie P.