[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: Hearts | Author: Sutherland]
[Heart's Bounty — Chapter 4 Deone R. Sutherland]
love  of  God  which  did  dwell  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people. 
And  there  were  no  envyings,  nor  strifes, 
nor  tumults,  nor  whoredoms,  nor  lyings, 
nor  murders,  nor  any  manner  of  lascivious- 
ness;  and  surely  there  could  not  be  a 
happier  people  among  all  the  people  who 
had  been  created  by  the  hand  of  God. 
There  were  no  robbers,  nor  murderers, 
neither  were  there  Lamanites,  nor  any 
manner  of  -ites;  but  they  were  in  one, 
the  children  of  Christ,  and  heirs  to  the 
kingdom  of  God. 
And  how  blessed  were  they!  For  the 
Lord  did  bless  them  in  all  their  doings; 
yea,  even  they  were  blessed  and  prospered 
until  an  hundred  and  ten  years  had  passed 
away;  and  the  first  generation  from  Christ 
has  passed  away,  and  there  was  no  con- 
tention in  all  the  land  (4  Nephi  15-18). 
Amos,  son  of  Nephi,  in  111  a.d. 
became  historian  and  kept  the  rec- 
ords in  his  father's  stead.  He  was 
historian  for  eighty-four  years.  Sum- 
marizing what  Amos  engraved  on 
the  plates  of  Nephi,  Mormon  wrote: 
.  .  .  and  there  was  still  peace  in  the 
land,  save  it  were  a  small  part  of  the  peo- 
ple who  had  revolted  from  the  church  and 
taken  upon  them  the  name  of  Lamanites; 
therefore  there  began  to  be  Lamanites 
again  in  the  land  (4  Nephi  20). 
This  is  all  we  know  about  this 
great  people  during  this  period  of 
time,  111  a.d.  to  194  a.d. 
Amos,  Son  oi  Amos, 
Keeps  the  Record 
Upon  the  death  of  Amos  in  194 
a.d.,  his  son  Amos  became  the  keep- 
er of  the  record  ".  .  .  and  he  [also] 
kept  it  upon  the  plates  of  Nephi" 
(4  Nephi  19) .  During  the  one  hun- 
dred and  twelve  years  he  served  as 
historian  (194  a.d.  through  305 
a.d.)  ".  .  .  the  people  had  multi- 
plied, insomuch  that  they  were 
spread  upon  all  the  face  of  the  land,

626 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1956 
and  that  they  had  become  exceed- 
ing rich,  because  of  their  prosperity 
in  Christ"  (4  Nephi  23).  But 
wickedness  crept  in  among  them 
in  the  form  of  pride,  "...  wearing 
of  costly  apparel,  and  all  manner  of 
fine  pearls,  and  the  fine  things  of 
the  world"  (4  Nephi  24).  From 
this  time  of  wickedness  they  ceased 
to  have  their  goods  in  common  and 
they  divided  into  classes.  Some  of 
the  people  denied  the  true  church 
of  Christ  and  built  up  other 
churches,  ".  .  .  to  get  gain  .  .  ." 
(4  Nephi  26).  Members  of  the  in- 
iquitous churches  soon  ".  .  .  did  per- 
secute the  true  church  of  Christ, 
because  of  their  humility  and  their 
belief  in  Christ;  and  they  did  despise 
them  because  of  the  many  miracles 
which  were  wrought  among  them" 
(4  Nephi  29).  They  threw  the 
disciples  into  prisons,  into  furnaces 
of  fire,  and  into  dens  of  wild  beasts,
