[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Intentions | Author: Luce]
}- Cnuemions and /ciens Celia Luce WE see only the actions of other people, but we judge ourselves by our intentions. Our intentions are usually much better than our actions. We could improve our world if we would take the trouble to find out the intentions of others, and consider their actions in the light of their intentions. And how much better a person I might be if I would take myself to task for my actions, and be very sure that they are my best possible effort. Page 603 Mleeting Objections in Selling the Relief Society aga zine Clara Love Magazine Representative, Granite Stake (Utah) [Discussion Presented in the Magazine Department Meeting, Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] have a specific mission. We are striving to place in the homes of the people in our wards and stakes The Relief Society Magazine. We must also help the women to receive full benefit from it. The Magazine must be read, or it cannot fulfill the purpose for which it is published. This may not be an easy task, but if we value our calling and have a love for the work we are doing, we can accomplish much. If the Magazine means much to us and we enjoy reading it, then we can encourage Others to do the same. We should know what our Magazine contains and be prepared to tell others about it. We must know the worth of it and what an influence for good it can be in the home. We want to make friends for our Magazine, and so each visit we make should be a pleasant and happy experience for those we contact and for ourselves. When we meet our subscribers we should be interested in them. Ask if they are receiving their Magazine and how they are enjoying it. Always have something interesting to pass on whenever the opportunity presents itself. We will meet objections from time to time, and so we must prePage 604 Tn: Magazine representatives pare ourselves as best we can to meet them. One objection: I haven't time to read. If we have a little advance information about the family we are to visit, and know something of their interests, their needs, and, possibly, a little about their Church activities, this might help us in our approach. Perhaps we discovered that poetry was the thing a certain woman was most interested in. Let her see what our Magazine has to offer along these lines. Thumb through the pages and point out just how many poems each issue contains. Offer to leave one of the Magazines with her for a few days, so she can more fully enjoy the reading of the poems. Appeal to her in other ways. Fivery woman loves to receive a new and interesting recipe. Choose one that you particularly enjoyed and share it with her. If you have tried the Chicken Casserole that is in the September 1955 issue of the Magazine (page 596), tell her what a hit it made with your family and suggest she try it. You might ask if she is keeping the Magazine in a place where it can easily be picked up, maybe on a table close to her favorite chair, where, during the day, when she