[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 301 | Fiction | Wheat for the Wise Chapter 4 | Margery S. Stewart]
Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter Four Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes the need for spirituality 'and religious training for the _ childrens Rex agrees to @ trial period of one year for the family to participate in Church activities, and Jennie feels that they are making progress. Shi 7 y,! @ On the next Wednesday Jennie ' fasted. Not for the Primary class, alone, but for the whole project. ' Not having fasted since she was a child, there were times during the day when she was sure she ' would faint. She made a cake, before lunch, covered it lavishly ' with chocolate frosting and nuts. ' She refrained from absently pol- ' ishing off the frosting spoon. She ' took the cake to Primary. The boys, tripping and gouging I each other, fell silent when they: saw the cake pan. When marching out time came, they followed her with the alacrity of puppies. Jennie put the cake in the _ place of honor on the small table. "When do we get it?" "Cut it now!" They swarmed out of their places and_ surrounded the table, their greedy fingers reaching out for a surreptitious swipe. Jennie said softly, 'This cake, like the blessings of the Lord, is for the good ones." "You mean we gotta wait till after the lesson!"' Famished herself, Jennie could well appreciate the howl of protest. She ignored it and put out her flannel' board and figures. She started with the roll call. "Answer only to your name," she said firmly. She gave the lesson with all the vigor she could summon in her present weakness. Eyeing the cake and the boys, she knew to the last pang, the longing of each young stomach. The long silence was awesome. When she dropped Moses from the flannel board, young Billy leaped to pick the cardboard figure from the floor. "Thank you," she said. "VYou're welcome," he _ said gravely. No one laughed. Not even when he brought the kitten 


 out from its hiding place in his shirt. No one crowded around him. Billy put the kitten back. Jennie brought the class to an end promptly, after which she cut the cake and passed around the rich, crumbly slices. She did not take one herself, wanting a more fitting end to her fasting. But she had won, even though after the cake was demolished, they began their jostling and boxing. Something was broken. Probably the feeling they had had that no one nor anything could subdue them. Soon after dismissal, red-haired Billy came slowly back into the room, cradling the kitten. ''Sister Starr." "Yes, Billy?' She gathered up her visual aids. He dropped the kitten on the table. "For you on account of you're a real good teacher." Jennie looked down on the mewing white fluff. She was deeply touched. "Thank you, Billy. I will take good care of him." Even later, when she learned that his mother had commanded him to dispose of the kitten, she treasured the offering. Rex came home early to help and was astonished by her radiance. "But how?" She told him about the cake. Rex, probing the reason for a recalcitrant vacuum, put down the screwdriver and shouted with laughter. '""Somehow," he said, '"'I don't think it's quite according to Hoyle." He looked at her with respect. "What made you think efit?" She said comfortably, "I remembered what my father said 302 about how you can't pour from an unfilled pitcher. I poured." '"'What was the lesson about?" "The stranger within our gates you know... Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares...."" She said reluctantly, "I sort of threw that in as a bonus, on account of they are being beastly to a new boy." Rex plugged the vacuum in and it responded with a reassuring hum. He wound up the cord. "Speaking of strangers... Guess whom I saw on Main Street today?"' "Yul Brynner?" "No... Jody Anderson. I guess people call him Joe now... But it's hard to get out of the habit." Jennie said absently. "Still on the piano?" Rex, shrugged. "I guess so. He said he was doing a bit of composing." "How did he look?" "The same as always... Only more lost. He's been living back east... Teaching." Jennie had a quick vision of the tall, homely, stooped figure. "Even in high school he was well different.." '"'He was a kook then and he's a kook now. This is his first trip back home in five years." "Married?" Rex said _pityingly, would marry him?" Jennie was silent. "Why do they come back?" Rex demanded. "I'll bet there is no other town in the country where so many return. What is it they come for?" Jennie had no words to tell him. She felt it might be the "Who thing that urged her to go down to the temple grounds in the morning. It was a leaning down through years to a beginning. It was a search for the roots and the reasons. She had meant to go very early, but there were so many telephone calls. Lorna called and was impatient. "What cave are you living in, darling? And how do you like the hermit's life?" Jennie laughed and took the curlers out of her hair. She had had to do her own hair for the past two weeks. Just no time to spare for a hairdresser. "Guess who is in town?" "Jody Anderson." "My dear, have you seen him? You should! Positively scarecrow.. But really!" Lorna bethought herself of the reason for her call. "It's the luncheon for Mrs. Martin Elliott. You'll come of course?' "When is it?" "Next Wednesday." "Sorry. I'm up to my ears in Church work." "Oh," Lorna hesitated. "Are you sure? I mean... They can always get teachers." Jennie thought of Sister Phillips. "No they can't. I'm the teacher." "Well all right but come up for air once in a while. We miss you." Jennie dressed quickly before the telephone could ring again. She wore her fur hat and the tweed great coat and the furlined gloves. She hurried the car down the hill and finally turned the heater on. "Ah." She relaxed in the snowy morning. Johnny and Lora were being left with a WHEAT FOR THE WISE new sitter, a mature and intelligent woman. There was nothing between herself and the free hours ahead. Even though the day was brisk, there were many visitors to the temple grounds. Jennie joined them, absently listening to the young guide, but inside herself the questions surged. What did she believe? How much did she believe? She listened to the guide tell the story of the seagulls' flight over the valley and the destruction of the cricket plague. What had they thought, sweating through their fields, fighting the winged devourers? Had they had the sure knowledge that help would come from somewhere? She had launched herself on this year's quest, blindly believing that if she did her part, all else would fall into place. So had the pioneers launched themselves into the valley, fallen from a cliff, grasping to the shrub of their faith, they had held on. Let me be like them, she prayed. Let me just hold on. SHE went into the Tabernacle to listen to the organ recital. "Jesu, Joy of Our Desiring," she listened to the great notes soaring against the domed ceiling. She saw Jesus in the wheat fields, rubbing the grains in his fingers. Was she, Jennie Starr, wheat or tares? Who knew within himself which he was in the last analysis? If a man did not know himself how could he know his neighbor? She looked stealthily at her own neighbor, sitting so absorbed in the music! It was a man. His eyes were closed. He seemed, by his expression, to be drawing the music in through his pores. 


 Jody Anderson. As if she had said his name aloud, the man opened his eyes and looked at her. It was a strange look. It recognized but did not reach. It was glad to see her, but it asked nothing from her. Jennie felt a tumult of pain. What had the man suffered to force him to such self-abnegation? What had they done to him, to make him unwilling or unable to be glad at sight of an old schoolmate?