[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 297 | Home | Home Academy — What Are You Going to Teach, Mother? | Leora Larsen]
- HOME ACADEMY @ School is out and the children What are you are relieved and delighted. Or are they? Greg, who had just been ki promoted to the Fourth Grade, soins to teach 4 couldn't find anything to do,? Leora Larsen Gay, a pretty teenager, was colMother lapsed on a chair in the kitchen with her hand in the cookie jar. Where were their usually alert minds? I could hear other children in the neighborhood. They were running and shouting outside. But my little boy had asthma, and my quiet teenager had a heart block that limited her activity. I could not watch them become unhappy. "How would you like a school of your own?" I asked. "First, we will need a janitor to vacuum the carpet and set out chairs." "I will!" said Greg. '"'We should have music and a thought to start with." Gay came from the kitchen. "We had Seminary first, and I really liked it last year." "Why don't you be the teacher?" I asked. "I will teach math," Greg offered. I smiled, for this was his difficult subject. "Could I be the school cook, mother, and fix anything I want?" Gay asked. "And don't forget recess!'"' Greg shouted. 


 ''We can take turns being the teacher," Gay said. '"What are you going to teach, Mother?" That was how it happened, one of our happiest summers. We called it Sunrise School, and it started soon after Father left for work. Besides Gay teaching Seminary, which was complete with prelude piano music, singing, prayer, and Biblical stories, she also gave us simple lessons in French. She invented a card game called "French Fish," and we could use only French words. Greg worked each afternoon preparing "complicated"? Math problems for the next morning, and a close friend of his came over once a week to be the spelling teacher. Her name was Pat, and she was most interesting. She searched her geography book for words like Isthmus of Panama, tributary, irrigate, and others. It was a challenge. I made mistakes along with the rest. And I was doing my best! I was in charge of the recess bell and extra-curricular recreation. We went by train to visit my sister in California and held one unforgettable sunrise class with their family. When we returned home we wrote about our trip. This year Gay will be going to summer school and college. Greg and I will miss her, but we plan to continue our lessons and she will share her experiences with us. Teachers and friends agree my children are "gifted." I am not sure about that, but I do wonder about other mothers. What are you teaching?