[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 287 | Home | How to Sew Nylon Tricot | Ethel Maturale]
[How to Sew Nylon Tricot Ethel Maturale]

Whenever the last child of a neighbor's family married, my mother gave the parents a shower. She invited all the neighbors and friends in for an afternoon of visiting and a shower." My spouse made no response. I thought the situation over for a time. Obviously, I could not give myself a shower, nor could I suggest to neighbors that one 288 might be appreciated. Finally, I decided I would make a second hope chest and I made myself sit down and list things I intended to accumulate. I was in a department store when the towels caught my eye. I had been silently longing for a pink tile bathroom, with goldcolored fixtures and apple green accents. I selected warm pink towels with gold stripes and a lighter pink to initial in gold. I also found some in solid gold color; these to be initialed in green. J didn't buy haphazardly. I had been using towels all my life, but knew very little about what makes towels good towels. I sought out a buyer and talked with her about towels, and I learned from her how to distinguish a good towel from an inferior one. I learned that a pastel-colored towel is more absorbent than a dark one, because of the dye. I could not lift a heavy towel, when wet, without strain, so, under the buyer's guidance, I selected thick, close terry weaves in medium weight and size. When I got my towels home, I wrapped them in blue tissue and boxed them in a large cardboard box. I taped the edges of the box and labeled it, then stored it on a shelf in the basement. Next came the sheets. I love flowered ones, but frugality dictated white. Again, before making my final decision, I talked with the buyer. I learned I could get sheets made so well that I would not have to bend the mattress to get them over the corners. I looked for these easyfitting corners type. I changed my mind about colored bed linen. I bought stripes galore, with matching cases and those wonderful over-all patterns in gay flowers. I learned ways of making linen ensembles. If I bought two top sheets with fitted corners, I could reverse them, using the fitted ends for the top undersheet and the bottom topsheet. This takes the wear from one sheet and makes them last longer. I went all out for nylon for company sheets. These are a summertime delight, for they are cool. In fact, a nylon undersheet is the best buy in summer comfort I have found, but for our climate it is a bit too cool for winter. It is like sleeping on silk —smooth, cool, luxurious. I really indulged in nylon pillow cases. I have plenty of lovely hand-embroidered and crocheted cases, but I use them only for show. I stocked my hope chest with nylon pillow cases, but decided to try out two pair.