[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 255 | Poem | My Butterfly Vilate | R. McAllister]
Thomena kissed her again, then said belatedly, "Happy birthday, Mother."' MY BUTTERFLY Vilate R. McAllister Happiness, flaunting butterfly wings, Fluttered beyond my grasp. In vain I pursued the dancing wraith, Far too elusive to clasp. Discouraged and tired, I stopped to rest, And quietly sat on a boulder. Happiness fluttered near again, And presently lit on my shoulder! 255 The Technique and Art of the As and Ellen N. Barnes Member, General Board of Relief Society (Talk Delivered at the Music Department Meeting of the Relief Society. Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965) PSALM 100 Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness: come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name. For the Lord is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations. @ The frequently quoted expression that "'accompanists are born and not made" is one with which I do not agree. Accompanying is an acquired art, and one which any good pianist can master. One can be guided a long way on the road which leads to proficiency. Beyond a certain point, however, the individual must have learned all of the mechanics involved and be able to profit by his own experience. One can learn to play the notes of an accompaniment with skill, but the art of accompanying and ensemble playing will come to him only as a result of his own efforts in study, perseverance, patience, and experience. The playing of accompaniments should not be regarded as a stepping stone to other things, but rather the accompanist's work is sufficiently rewarding in itself. Those who have had the experience of being an accompanist know the delight which this area of music-making can give. The conductor and singers depend upon the accompanist at all times for support and inspiration. Sir Landon Ronald once said: "The world is overstocked with brilliant solo