[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 242 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I read the inspired pages that. Bring knowledge, wisdom, and faith. It is like an open door to heaven, and a hope that peace will stay with me in my home. Clemencia P. Golithon Redondo Beach, California I am a Lutheran by faith, but during my short stay in Utah became very fond of Relief Society and enjoyed every minute of it—such wonderful women and with such a good outlook on life. I find The Relief Society Magazine brings me the same enjoyment and inspiring messages and I can't wait for the next issue. Mrs. Thelma M. Adams Fort, Walton Beach, Florida All of my indifference towards poetry has changed the last two years since I have been studying the literature lessons in The Relief Society Magazine. We as Reliéf Society women are blessed with many advantages to enrich our lives. I love all the poems published in the Magazine, and especially the prizewinning poems in the January issue. "Letter to Viet Nam' (by Eva Willes Wangsgaard) really touched my heart. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas In the past three years, starting from Scotland, I have traveled widely over the United States and Canada, and have had many a lonely moment, but was fortunate to have these moments warmed by reading the Magazine, and from the contents one gets strength to carry on. I hope people like me and my fellow wanderers continue to receive the friendliness of The Relief Society Magazine. Ann Petrie San Francisco, California 242 I am nineteen years of age, single, have been subscribing to the M for nearly a year. From the fi stories to the deepest doctrinal sages, pours: priceless and upli and benefiting information. Young, I am especially interested the romantic side of life. The "For Barbara, With Love'' (First Story, January 1966) deeply tou me, bringing tears to my eyes as I it. Thank you, Sister Vesterfelt, writing such a heartfelt message. Some years ago,. Was the serial * beth's Children' (by Olive W. 1958), which was also touching. I very thankful that I have the p of receiving the Magazine. Jeanette Leavitt, Alberta, Ca I enjoy the Magazine very mu cause it is so outstanding. I sur. Enjoy the story ''A Swedish Conve (by Melva Taylor Gleave, in the 1965 issue of the Magazine). Fredrika Bell Gardens, Cali The stories and lessons in the zine have proved to be most helpful me, and are indeed inspirational. Recipes have been enjoyed by f and friends. The lessons have hel in guiding and directing my life. T lessons coincide beautifully with t Home Evening program. Relief Soci has come to mean something speci for me. My _ testimony has been strengthened since I have had the opportunity to join Relief Society a to work in it. I was the only mem of my family in the Church in the west and the Magazine was a guide a help in explaining the gospel. Miss Ada Ruth Fremont, Cali The Relief Society Veagazine Ee EEE
