[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 256 | Special Feature | The Technique and Art of the Pianist As Accompanist and Soloist Ellen | N. Barnes]
pianists, but there are precious few good accompanists." The great accompanist Gerald Moore stated: The popular conception of an adequate accompanist is of a _ quiet, modest individual, seen but not heard, an affable automation, obediently following the soloist and oozing with sympathy and discretion from every pore only on the rarest occasion should the accompanist be satisfied with providing an unobtrusive murmur in the background. Such an attitude would ruin the works of any great composer. To the singer, a good accompanist means good work, and good work means enjoyable work. A good or competent accompanist does not follow, but anticipates and goes hand in hand with the conductor and singers. Skill in doing this is acquired by proper coordinated attention. The music must be well in hand, including mastery of the singer's part, so that the accompanist can be alert to subtle changes in tempo or dynamics which are not indicated in the score. Being sensitive to the conductor's wishes in observing these nuances, adds greatly to the charm and interest of the music. These subtleties cannot be easily taught, but are developed as the result of study, concentration, and experience. Brother J. Spencer Cornwall states in his book Fundamentals of Conducting, that: A conductor cannot appreciate too highly an efficient accompanist—one who can anticipate his every need— one who will sound the pitch in a rehearsal at every necessary point without being told—one who can right a tempo which has slackened or accelerated—one who can boost the pitch of the singers when it has flatted and one who can follow every movement of the conductor and exemplify it in his playing.

THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST When the work of the conductor and accompanist complement each other in all phases of musical performance, the situation is ideal. An accompaniment is not written as an afterthought. It must be the foundation for the entire musical structure of the composition. Any piece of music with a poorly written or poorly played accompaniment is doomed to failure. Accompaniments are not only important because of their technical difficulty, but may, because of their simplicity, give the sensitive pianist much more to think about. Many pianists do not take enough time to work for quality of tone and a variety of shadings in a simple or easily read accompaniment. The singers want something more than the casual playing of mere notes. The simplicity of these accompaniments demands that they be treated reverently. The accompanist must be able to interpret and play the music from a variety of composers, in a variety of styles to suit the composer as well as_ the nature of the composition. Learn to analyze the music and listen critically to your playing of it. In preparation for learning a new song, one should first of all study the words. The accompaniment to every good song paints a picture or creates a mood which is inspired by the words. Therefore, the accompanist and conductor, as well as the singers, must depend upon these words to guide them. What character can an accompanist give to her playing if she is not familiar with the words? How can she possibly feel a unity of expression with the conductor and singers if she does oT APRIL 1966 not know the words, and understand the meaning of them? POSITION AT PIANO— HAND POSITION Now let us consider some of the attributes which are of prime importance in developing the art of piano playing and accompanying. First of all, one must have a good position at the piano. She should be at a comfortable height so that her hands rest easily on the keyboard to be held on a plane nearly level with the forearms. The hands should be cupped, with fingers curved, so that a good singing tone can be produced. The weight of the arm centers in the ball of the fingertip as it comes in contact with the key. The wrist should be relaxed at all times. TONE QUALITY, PHRASING, AND BALANCE OF TONE In developing tone quality, one should learn to listen to oneself. This is of utmost smportance. There should be no harsh sounds, but constant striving to develop a beautiful singing tone. Practice a hymn and try to bring out different melodic lines (soprano, alto, or tenor) in a succession of chords. While the soprano voice in an accompaniment frequently sings out, very often a tone in an inner voice may be of vital importance and must be brought out to indicate a change of key or harmony. One should learn to control the tone so that all tones, except the melodic tone in a chord, are subdued. If one learns to use the fingers with sensitivity, a variety of touch can be developed, and, by experimenting with touch, a variety of tone colors can be produced. 258 PHRASING AND BALANCE OF TONE Observe the phrasing and musical punctuation indicated in the score. Practice to develop the art of beautiful phrasing. Phrases are usually indicated by long curved lines over the notes. The notes within a phrase are usually played legato (smoothly); the end of a phrase is often indicated by a break or slight lift of the wrist. However, there must be no interruption in the rhythm. The accompanist must listen constantly to the balance of tone. She must keep under but give strong support to the singers. LEGATO PLAYING—SCALES Scale practice is the very foundation of piano technique. A scale is a (developing) chain in which all of the notes are played precisely alike and are very even in tone. They must be _ played smoothly and connected as in legato playing. In this, there is no break between tones. One finger comes up as the other goes down. Up motions are the exact reciprocal of down motions; the one must equal and counterbalance the other. This reciprocity is of vital importance. Clearness, fluency, and general control of the fingers depend upon this reciprocal action. In a poorly executed scale it is probable that the up motions are neither as quick as the down motions, nor as accurately timed. In playing a whole note, for example, the finger that has been correctly trained goes down to the key and is lifted with precisely the same speed with which it would play a group of 64th notes. The only difference is the length of time that the finger remains on the key. The reasons for this quick finger action are: (1) good quality of tone is achieved; (2) power is secured; and (3) speed is obtained, and the scale is legato— played smoothly. Learn to play with skill the scales, arpeggios, and chords of all major and minor keys. This will make learning new music much easier. PEDALING Good pedaling is of great importance. Syncopated pedaling is used in most of our hymns. To acquire proficiency in syncopated pedaling, practice a scale putting the sustaining pedal down just after a key is played. The pedal comes up as the next key is struck, and goes down while you are still holding the key. Apply this principle as you practice the hymns and you will find that they will sound much more smoothly. If a tone or bass chord is to be held through the phrase, the pedal must catch the low tone and sustain it. As a rule, the pedal changes with the harmonic change. DYNAMICS Learn the meaning of all the markings on the pages of music in a song. Follow the composer's markings accurately. Get a musical dictionary and use it regularly for reference. (Elson's is a good one.) Study the dynamics (tone volume) and learn to control the amount of tone you use according to the specific directions of the composer. For example, a crescendo must be a gradual increase in tone and a diminuendo a gradual decrease in tone. Learn to observe all markings in every THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST piece of music you play. This will greatly increase the interest of the music both to the performer as well as to the listener. RHYTHM Rhythm in music consists of regular recurring accents. The rhythm must be sure and steady. A metronome is of some help, but learn to rely on yourself. Always count time, but, of course, to yourself. Learn the measure signatures and follow them accurately. It is important that you do not neglect the rests; count them the same as you do the notes. TEMPO Check the metronome markings and be sure the speed of your rhythms is correct. Sister Florence J. Madsen says in her book Music Leadership in Relief Society: ''Make sure that the tempo is comfortable for the singers and enchances the beauty, dignity, and character of the song." A word of caution—many songs may lose the spirit or fail to be enthusiastically received by being taken at too slow or too fast a tempo. A sense of timing is all important. The conductor has to rely on an efficient accompanist who has the musicianship and training, to keep the proper tempo, and give support and inspiration to the conductor and singers. All should work together to achieve a_ successful and beautiful performance. Here, again, one must keep in mind the text and meaning of the words to the song. The feeling must be personal and dynamic, if you are to touch the hearts of the listeners. Both conductor 'and accom- 


 panist must radiate enthusiasm and love for both the singers and the music. The accompanist should learn to forget the fingers and keep his eye on the vocal line. Sing the words to yourself and make a mental note of where the singers breathe. SIGHT READING Fifteen minutes a day practice in sight reading can greatly improve one's ability and give confidence in playing and learning new music. Begin with reading simple compositions and, gradually, increase the difficulty of the music as you gain in confidence and proficiency. It would be well to start with the first hymn and go through the entire book. This would give the accompanist a general acquaintance with all of the hymns. As she returns to practice them, she should read the texts and decide which style and mood belong to each song and play them accordingly. As the hymns are played, do make sure that both hands strike the chord in unison or together. Never, never play the left hand before the right hand. In sight reading, it is very important always to maintain an even beat and take it at a slower tempo. If some notes are left out, it will not matter—but do maintain the beat. PRELUDE AND INTERLUDE In playing the prelude or introduction and interlude in a song or hymn, it is very important that these passages be played with authority, employing all the technique of fine piano playing. In both places, the tempo of the song should be maintained. 260 The introduction of a hymn should consist of the beginning four measures or first phrase, and end with the last four measures or last phrase. If the hymn is short, all of it may be played. An interlude, consisting of the last phrase of the hymn, may be played after the second verse. Do not wander away in some improvisation that takes the singers away from the tune they are singing. In a song, these preludes and interludes are solo parts for the piano and must be made interesting and beautiful. These are 'places where the piano can speak and assume the leadership. Sister Madsen says: Prelude music is played for the purpose of generating a spirit of devotion and worship, and not for drowning out conversation and noise. The accompanist therefore should choose music that is of a subdued and quiet nature and not a display of volume, speed, or technique (Ibid, page 34). Again, I want to emphasize to you that you must practice and learn to play the music beautifully. Your goal of inspiring a spirit of devotion and worship cannot be achieved if you play inaccurately, carelessly, or with faulty phrasing or technique. Remember that if you are invited to become the Relief Society stake or ward organist or chorister, it is an opportunity for growth and development. Any mother who is herself growing and learning will - be a far better mother. We all need to feel that we are improving our talents and abilities and this must continue throughout life if we are pursuing our Heavenly Father's plan for us. Make stake leadership music department an inspiration and of real value to ward leaders. The organists should meet separately for a short time and discuss appropriate prelude music. They should play for each other and exchange ideas. They can discuss the fundamentals of musicianship and of interpretation, observing phrasing and dynamics and even technical problems. The chorister and organist should plan together for the leadership meetings throughout the year, using their ingenuity and understanding of the needs in the wards. If the ward leaders feel that they are getting some real help, they will make every effort to attend, and the standard of music in the wards will be raised immeasurably. It will become vitalized and, sisters, we do need to vitalize the music in stakes, wards, and branches. Study continuously, and you and the Church will reap the rewards. In conclusion, I should like to urge all of you to attend as many concerts—especially orchestral— as you can, and constantly listen to good music. Study the tonal THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST and dynamic effects, the melodic line, the harmonic progression, and balance of tone. Listen to the instruments which play the melody or theme and try to follow its development. I can't stress this continuing education too strongly. We should maintain the highest standards in our music, both for services and performances. There must always be growth and development. Excellence is the result of attention to seemingly insignificant details—the shading of the piano, the accent of a word, the changing of the countenance. The key to achieving excellence is to give three times the amount of work and attention to learning the composition that you consider necessary. May our Heavenly Father bless our efforts as we strive to improve our talents and ability to develop the art of accompanying so that we can make worthwhile contributions to the Church and, specifically, to Relief Society.