[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 315 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Wise Buymanship Jenniev | J. Poulson]
314 77 Lesson Department (ae x wy oe' " WORK MEETING Y Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Jenniev J. Poulson Chairman, Housing and Home Management Department Brigham Young University WISE BUYMANSHIP Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1966 Southern Hemisphere: December 1966 Objective: To show that better buymanship is a skill to be developed. How important to the well-being of the family is the woman's role in wise buying? Discuss. A goal of accumulating money just for itself brings little satisfaction. The value of money is realized in the happiness and satisfaction obtained through the wise spending of it. This is the happiness realized through spending money wisely for such things as wholesome, nutritious food, for clothes that provide warmth, protection, and beauty for the body, for shelter and surroundings for the family that aid in happy relationships and contribute to the development of family members, for an education for the children, and for money spent Mm giving service to our Father in heaven. WISE BUYING A concern of most families is to have enough money to take care of their needs. Families look forward to earning more money or increasing their incomes, but many families would benefit a great deal from increased skill in spending the money they have. Many hours may be spent in learning how to earn money, but how many hours are spent in learning to spend money wisely? Better buying practices can stretch each family's limited number of dollars, and can help it to get its money's worth whether buying necessities, comforts, or luxuries. A homemaker who can stretch $1 to secure $1.15 worth of merchandise, or 85 cents to secure $1 worth, is 


 adding to the real income of the family. This explains why it is possible that of two families with identical incomes, one family may have much more to show for the expenditure of its money. One of the secrets is wise buying. IS PRICE ALWAYS A GUIDE TO QUALITY? A wise buyer hunts for the greatest quantity and best quality for the price she pays. Many buyers are guided by the philosophy that "you pay for what you get," and use price and brand as a guide to quality. Interesting and _ thought-provoking surveys have been made by important manufacturers to ascertain the relative appeal to shoppers of goods marked with well-known brand names, and goods made by other companies. The results of one such survey indicated that, although the brand name goods were considerably higher in price, the rate of selling was almost four times as great as that of the unbranded goods. Many trade journals are full of reports of increased sales after prices have been raised. In one case, sales of an item on which a higher price was marked, increased thirty per cent. There is no dependable relationship between quality and price. The homemaker who buys, thinking she gets higher quality for a higher price, may be spending more money than is needed. Prices asked for identical branded products vary. WHAT! S THE VALUE OF COMPARATIVE SHOPPING? A wise buyer does comparative shopping. She may do this by 316 reading advertisements and comparing the prices for identical items; or she may do comparative shopping by comparing prices and quality in different catalogs. She shops around at more than one store, comparing quality and price. Many homemakers have become accustomed to buying at one store, and do not compare prices before buying. One study led to the conclusion that sixty per cent of the buyers choose their stores on the basis of convenience, not price. One must shop in different stores in an area, because no one store is consistently the lowest in price. This rule applies to the different kinds of things bought, and to the different kinds of stores, including discount houses. CASE STUDY Mrs. A is a "bargain shopper," cannot resist a sale, and buys sale merchandise whether products are used by family or not. She never reads the labels on packages to determine weight and content, buys on impulse, buys because she thinks she is making a big saving for the family budget, yet never seems to have on hand just what is needed. Mrs. B never reads sale advertisements, goes only to one market and buys as the need arises regardless of the cost, and usually has a hard time in stretching her money to meet her family's needs. Mrs. C is aware of what is needed and what is used by her family, checks advertised specials, and compares prices of products used by her family. She plans menus ahead, so makes fewer shopping trips, anticipates needs of family and takes advantage of special savings, checks labels of competitive products, so is able to recognize a saving, knows what she is buying and, with careful planning and wise buying, her budget stretches. Mrs. D reads advertisements, checks bargains, and goes to each store to buy them, and spends four hours and a half-tank of gasoline in '"hunting' sale merchandise. Who is the wisest? Discuss and evaluate each of the four procedures. SUMMARY It is indeed easy to spend money, but it takes time and effort to spend it wisely, Few families have so much money that they can afford not to spend it wisely. By spending thought and time in buying, they may add to the goods and services LESSON DEPARTMENT they are able to have. We are told to "'waste not; want not." Spending more money than is necessary is a form of waste. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Discuss with the sisters the following: When buying, try different brands, or unbranded products that cost less, to see if they aren't as satisfactory for the purpose for which they are to be used as the articles that cost more. Do comparative buying to see how much can be saved. Compare prices of identical branded products in different stores.