[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 271 | Special Feature | Look to the Future — Fight Cancer | Gregory Peck]
"Father in heaven, let me 270 Look Fight to the Cancer GREGORY PECK Future Chairman, 1966 Crusade, American Cancer Society, Inc. @ It has been well said that the first thing to save for your old age is you. A generation ago, the concepts of hope and cancer were mutually exclusive. Today, the climate has changed—the climate is hope. The American Cancer Society has announced a stepped-up five-year attack on the six major forms of cancer which cause forty-eight per cent of cancer deaths in this country. Althought many of these cancers are being cured, many more could be cured, a Society spokesman said, if cancers of the six sites were detected early and properly treated. The six sites are the uterus, colon and rectum, breasts, mouth, lungs, and skin. In uterine cancer, the painless, inexpensive ''Pap'' test can detect the disease before it can be seen. If the disease is treated at this stage, the percentage of cure approaches 100 per cent. Some women whose cancers have been detected this early have been cured and have borne children after their cure. About seventy-five to eighty per cent of localized colon and rectum cancer can be detected by a doctor in an office examination with a proctoscope—a slim, lighted tube. A large percentage of these cancers can be cured, and disability prevented, through regular examination. Breast cancer is the most common form of the disease in women. But women themselves can help find it early enough for cure through monthly self-examination—which they can learn from an American Cancer Society film—or from their own doctor. An estimated eighty per cent of lung cancer is caused by cigarette smoking. Thus, some 35,000 lives a year could be saved if Americans did not smoke cigarettes. The American Cancer Society urges teenagers not to start smoking—for the habit, started early, is difficult to break later in life. The percentage of cure of mouth, tongue and other cancers in the mouth could be raised through regular cancer detection examination and proper treatment when cancer is found. Most skin cancer is caused by excessive exposure to sunlight. Incidence of skin cancer could be reduced sharply, if people would protect themselves from this avoidable hazard. While concentrating its attack on these six sites, the Society is, at the same time, planning large increases in research expenditures to find further causes and cures of cancer. Its ultimate purpose is eradicating all forms of cancer. FIGHT CANCER WITH A CHECK-UP AND A CHECK! 271 ne ae IN = Y (sy) Hirthday Present for Amy mary 2x Knowtes @ It was two days before her birthday when Amy Barkdall saw the sign tacked on the red brick house. She was trudging up the steep hill, pulling her two small boys in a wagon. The sign said: WASHER FOR SALE—CHEAP. Amy stopped. She was a tall, slender girl with winged eyebrows and wavy brown hair. She had a large bag of laundry slung over her shoulder. She felt a tremor of excitement. I want that washer for my birthday. Then the excitement died. Jeff still had two years of college. She was about to walk on and then the events of the morning at the laundromat came back to her. Four-year-old Chris and the Palmer boy had got in a fight.

Threeyear-old Mike had fallen and 272 bumped his head. She thought desperately, I cannot go through another such morning. It wouldn't hurt to look. She knocked on the back door. After a moment the door opened and a woman stood there. She had a pretty middleaged face, but she looked so sad that Amy's throat tightened. Amy said, "I'm Mrs. Barkdall. Could I please see the washer?" '"'You're the first prospect," the woman smiled. "It's in the basement." Amy helped the boys down the stairs. It was a full-length basement with a rubber tiled floor. In the doorway to the large laundry room the woman paused. "'I'll sell it for fifty dollars." Amy looked at the washer and excitement made her tremble. It was a sturdy white washer, with a large-sized tub and a wringer of fat rubber rollers. Amy gasped, "Why, it looks new." "It's only eight years old. A month ago my husband bought me an automatic washer and dryer. But I really don't even need that now." She bit her lip and tears flooded her eyes. 'Would you like to buy it?" "It's a marvelous bargain." Amy felt almost ill with longing. "But my husband's a student and well, you know how it is." "You bet I do.' The woman smiled softly. "Mr. Kincaid was in the building business, and we had such a struggle at first. Even buying a pair of shoes took close figuring." Amy heard a crash and turned. Mike had dumped over a basket of clothes pins. He sobbed forlornly. "Don't scold him." Mrs. Kincaid picked him up, and soothed, "There now, fellow, don't cry." The tears stopped and Mike flirted outrageously. Amy thought, with quick repentance, I'm so tired, I'm an old grouch with my babies. Mrs. Kincaid laughed softly. "I had four boys of my own, such noisy, adorable little boys.'"' She held Mike tighter. '"They're all grown and moved away now." There was an awkward silence, and Mrs Kincaid said. "If I reduced the price of the washer to thirty-five dollars, maybe...." "Thank you, but I couldn't even manage then. Come boys," she said quickly. Another second and she would be crying. She started up the hill again, pulling the boys, and the bag of washing seemed heavier. ResentBIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY ment within Amy flared. In the beginning Jeff had taken the clothes to the laundromat in the evening and studied between tubsful, but he couldn't take enough books for reference, so he had tended the boys while she went to the laundromat. Now he didn't even do that. Only thirty-five dollars. If only _ they could manage it somehow. But in her mind's eye, Amy saw the next two years in an all-encompassing flash. There wouldn't be one spare dollar. For a moment Amy wallowed in self-pity. Twice a week she had to tote the laundry up the hill. Her problems weren't even important to Jeff anymore, and he had been in an indifferent mood when he left that morning. SHE reached University Village and paused, feeling, even in her depressed state, a moment of gratitude that their apartment was on the first floor. The first year they had lived on the third floor of the converted army barracks. As Amy opened the door of I-A, the door down the _ hall opened, and Sally Stoddard stuck her head out. "What time do you want me tonight, Amy?" Sally's husband, Allan, was a medical student, and _ Sally swelled the family treasury by baby-sitting. Amy remembered that tonight was the lecture at the home of Professor Hopfield. This morning she had looked forward to the event and had made a wide cummerbund of crimson velvet to wear with her black velvet quilted skirt and white blouse. There would be interesting people, and 273 I APRIL 1966 Mrs. Hopfield made such good apple pie. She thought, I'm not going; but she knew she couldn't ask Jeff to stay home. '"We'll leave at 7:45, Sally." Amy opened the door and the clutter of the rooms hit her. This morning she had been proud of their small apartment. They had painted old furniture turquoise, dyed white muslin sheets scarlet, put an array of brightly colored bottles on shelves in the windows. But now it looked shabby and makeshift. How am I going to stand another two years of just existing? She thought wildly. She fed the boys and put them down for naps. She hung the washing on lines placed close together and stretched the length of the hall, hanging the small things at one end, so there was an arched passageway into the bedroom. She was stirring tomato sauce that evening when she _ heard Jeff's whistle. She thought, "Thank heavens his black mood is past."" He came in, a tall lanky man with auburn hair. He kissed her, and she felt happy and breathless and loved. She saw a glow in Jeff's eyes as if a light was turned on inside him. "Jeff, something wonderful has happened!"' "Sure," he said innocently, "the day after tomorrow is your birthday."' The two boys came running to pull Jeff into the livins room. She heard them laughing and scuffling. Jeff was in a rare good humor. Maybe it wouldn't hurt just to mention the washer. She hurried into the living room. "Jeff " and stopped. The 274 Engineer's Magazine had come today. Jeff was lost to her and Chris and Mike. There was a good crowd all laughing and talking when they reached Professor Hopfield's, and Amy tried to lift her spirits to a party mood, but she still felt blue and depressed. Mrs_ Hopfield came up to her. She was a small, thin woman in a blue crepe dress. Amy smiled, ''Hello, Mrs Hopfield. How are you?" And Mrs Hopfield said, "I'm glad you like me in blue, dear." Amy wanted to weep. Mrs. Hopfield had forgotten her hearing aid again. The speaker, Dr. Bromly, had a voice that stayed dangerously in the middle register. Amy tried not to listen too intently. She gazed fondly at Professor Hopfield and thought he looked like an elderly Spitz dog, with his fuzzy white hair. But now the speaker's low voice reached her, soothing, somnolent. Jeff shook her, whispering angrily. "You were snoring, Amy." Tears stung her eyes. She thought, darn it, darn it, I'm tired. When the speaker finally finished winding his words into a soft woollen ball, Amy fled to the kitchen to help Mrs. Hopfield, 'Would you like me to cut the pie?" she asked. "No thanks, dear, I'll pass the napkins and you cut the pie." Amy was cutting apple pie when Professor Hopfield came in, his face wreathed with smiles. "Aren't you proud of Jeff?" "Why yes, I." she stammered. 'Winning first prize in. "In what?" she demanded. "Oh, dear, he hasn't told you." 99 Professor Hopfield looked distressed. "I'll bet he's keeping it for a birthday surprise. Please tell me!" "He won fifty dollars for his article submitted to the Engineer's Quarterly Contest.". Fifty dollars. More than enough for the washer! "Oh, I'm so thrilled." "You won't tell him I told you?" "Not a word. I promise."' On the walk home she gave Jeff an amusing account of the morning's activities. Deftly she slipped in the information about the washer. She glanced up to see Jeff staring ahead absorbed in thought and her heart plummeted. Then he said, "Sounds like a good buy." Amy's heart thudded against her ribs. "It's for sale at the red brick house up from the laundromat." "The veranda?"' "Yes, that's the one." Jeff began to hum 'Happy Birthday to You." His step quickened as if he had made up his mind about something. One with the wide THatT night she could not sleep. Where would she put the washer? She remembered the large clothes closet. She got quietly out of bed and measured it with a yardstick. Bless the architect! The closet was almost as large as the kitchenette. Next morning she awakened with a start. Jeff wasn't through classes and lab until after one.