[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 7 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

IN RURAL ENGLAND. 
				XXIII. 
	And Jane Conway awakened by her
maid, was conscious of her wonderful dream,
and also of the realities of the present so
full of importance and of doubt and mis-
giving concerning herself. She dressed
hurriedly and was soon seated at the break-
fast table doing the honors as though
nothing had happened to disturb her
serenity.
	Burke and Hemenway were going away
but would ride over the adjoining grounds
first with Clair, and that was a relief, she
ardently hoped they would invite Dr. Bland
to join them; but why should she postpone
the issue that awaited her? She asked her-
self this question silently. “Cousin Anna 
you had better remain below and speak to
your guardian about your affairs when he
comes in this morning?” said Miss Conway
as she saw her cousin about to go as the 
Doctor came up the walk towards the castle.
O, my affairs are all right, I am not in the
least concerned, not half as much as I am
for you my dear cousin; you look pale and
tremble, you are not in love with Dr. Bland,
and yet you have promised, how I pity you,
why didn’t you ask Uncle Rob what to do?”
And as she spoke Jane blushed scarlet, but
Anna did not perceive it. “I know what-
ever you decide now will be right,” Anna
continued, “for you have such forethought
and measure everything you do with line 
and plummet, but here he is and now bon
jour,” and away flew Anna that her cousin
might be alone with the man she had pro-


[Column 1]

mised to marry. The interview was a long
one, Clair and his lawyers returned from
their ride, and the two men departed on
their journey in fact the sun was in the
meridian ere the Doctor and Jane emerged
from the drawing room. Both looked very
grave yet withal satisfied, and before an
hour had passed, Jane had informed Anna
that her marriage was to take place as soon
as the preliminary arrangements could be
made.
	"And I always thought you would be a
spinster and so did papa, and keep our house
and take care of us all and our children."
	"You were all wrong as you will see in a
few weeks, and my dear cousin you will be
the responsible person in the house, and it
requires tact to keep an establishment like
this in running order, everything is at
sixes and sevens now with this grand fete
and Mrs. Burke is on her high heels with
having her gentleman cousin down from
London, "the great solicitor of the late Sir
Edward," as she says, and it will take some
days now to get all the household machin-
ery in order again."
	"Dear Jane do give me a few lessons in
management before this wedding comes off.
By the bye where are you to be married?
and what will you wear, and how many
bridesmaids will you have? Do tell me all
about it!"
	"Dont talk so rapidly dear asking so
many questions in a breath, and I will an-
swer some of them. We are to be married
in the little Church near by, and as for
bridesmaids I had not thought of them at
all, and you know we are still in mourning
for my uncle, that decides the dress."
	"How very stupid, we went to balls and
parties in London, without the insignia of
mourning, why should you feel it essential
to wear black at a wedding, particularly the
bride, my old nurse told me when I was
a child that it was bad luck to wear black
to a wedding, and I'm sure it must be for
the bride to be in black."
	"That point is settled Anna neither the
Doctor or myself are at all superstitious,
and therefore it will make no difference
whatever your nurse may have told you."
	"How about the house cousin when can
we see it, will you go to day to look at it,
and take me with you? I thnk it must be
very nice to go to a new place, and not live
in such a weird, dusty, dark, old ruin as
this is, where the very owls and bats prowl
about at night."
	"As to that, I have a fondness for this
house, it has a history, that is exceedingly
interesting, think of the long line of an-
cestry that have occupied these rooms, and
the daring exploits of the brave men who
fought in the great battles of the country;
I love to look at the armory though it is
rusty and neglected."
	"I have no taste for all this paraphernalia,
I like the living present, full of life and
beauty and activity. Clair is welcome to
this tumble-down rookery, and I hope when
I marry Maitland that we shall have a new
house and live in London and visit all the
fine places, and not go round and round,
over and over, the self same identical places
and walks and drives, year in, and year out
as we do here; I'm so tired of this place,
and as for its history who knows it? I
didn't even know about my own mother
until uncle Rob told me."
	"I often fancy I see the people coming
and going through these rooms Lords and
Ladies and Dowagers, and hear them talk-
ing to each other indistinctly, and depend

[Column 2]

upon it Anna people are impressed by their
surroundings, whether you believe it or
not." said Miss Conway. "O, Jane you
make me feel queer, what has come over
you, to give way to such fancies? I shall
not like to stay here, when you are gone, if
you go on like this, I shall be expecting to
see something, one of those old men or wo-
men, who lived so long ago, really you
make one shiver with dread."
	"Anna these people are not coming back,
it is just my imagination that is so vivid, I
would like to see them if it were possible,
and if I should not be too much alarmed, I
want to know about the unseen. What has
any one ever told us that is satisfactory?
Nothing! absolutely nothing! Ask whom
you will, they don't know. My mother
told me more during her illness, of the
Bible and its teachings, than I have ever
heard from any one however learned.
There must be something in the future
more than our ministers teach, and I long
so to know, I yearn for that knowledge
which divines and philosophers talk of, but
they do not possess."
	"I'm sorry your not a minister yourself
Jane, you could tell us something more
than Mr. Phillips does, he is so stupid, he
can't talk about anything in the world, or
beyond."
	"My father was a clergyman and I may
have something of his nature and tendency,
but Anna my mother was as lofty in her
ideals and as pure in her aspirations, and as
conscientious in all her life as any minister
could possibly be however devoted, and I
feel that I shall some day find a better way
than we have been taught, one in which we
can do more good, we do not make any
sacrifices; we scarcely go out of our way to
relieve suffering: we nurse and tend our
own, and think in doing that we are hero-
ic."
	"Jane you do surprise me with your
peculiar views of morality and religion. I
know you have the most exalted ideas of
life and its service, and the Doctor will co-
operate with you in the charities that seem
suited to such temperaments as yours; as
for me I'm too indifferent to do good even
though I do appreciate it in you and honor
you for your freedom of thought and ex-
pression; just now I'm thinking of Mait-
land and that absorbs my time and intellect
too."
	"You have a kind heart Anna and should
circumstances change, you might yet feel
as I do that we should live for something
outside our own domain, experiences in life
often bring out rich qualites that have lain
dormant and neglected."
	"Don't say such dreadful things to me
Jane you make me feel like a culprit, its
very unpleasant—I'm sorry you are not in
a happier mood just after your interview
with Dr. Bland, he must have ruffled your
feathers methinks, I never knew you quite
so prosy."
	"I think we've talked enough on this
subject, but seriously Anna I never have
had so many grave reflections before,
possibly it is because of the new role I am
about to enter upon that is making me feel
how very important a thing it is to give
yourself into another's keeping."
	"It may make that sort of impression
upon you cousin Jane, but it seems to me
if I were to be married so soon I should be
the happiest girl alive, united with Maitland
never more to be separated to be always to-
gether henceforth, must bring superior hap-
piness."

[Column 3]

	"I trust you will find that sweet content
in your married life that will satisfy the
highest aspirations of the human soul my
dear Anna; for my own part I do not ex-
pect it, there mnst be somethlng higher in
the world than simply living on from day
to day as people do, and I long to reach
those high ideals that to us now seem un-
attainable. I would that I knew more of
science, the science of life, what it really is,
and for what purpose we were created."
	"Doctors know a great deal about those
mysteries don't they cousin? Dr. Bland
will be able to enlighten you on those points
surely when you are married."
	"Candidlly Anna he understands no more
than I do the things I long to fathom, nor
does any one I fear, we must have greater
knowledge to comprehend these occult
sciences. God alone knows; and the old
prophets had light revealed to them direct,
but in our day there is no revelation from
heaven save that which comes to us inward-
ly, these perceptions that we only feel but
cannot express."
	"I wish Jane you were better satisfied
with things as they are and not reaching
out after the unattainable, or if you want
knowledge, study with some of the great-
est divines and see whether they could tell
you the things yon long so ardently for."
	"No Anna I am going to marry Doctor
Bland and be a faithful, obedient submis-
sive wife—that seems to be the line of duty
marked out for me now, only occasionally I
have these misgivings and then I shake
them off and bury myself in everyday
work, nevertheless the time will come when
women will have a broader platform to
work upon and life will be so much more
desirable."
	This conversation showed plainly the
drift of Miss Conway's mind and heart.
She was a women of strong mentality,
capable of great undertakings, and she felt
within her the boundless possibilities of a
mighty work in raising the standard of wo-
manhood, to a lofty independence and free-
dom of thought and action, but she realized
how helpless woman herself was under ex-
isting conditions; yet the prophecy of the
future was prescient within her soul.
	Time sped onward rapidly and Jane
Conway realized how soon the wedding
ceremonies must be solemnized. She had
sometimes accompanied the Doctor in his
morning visits to patients in the vicinity
carrying with her flowers and delicacies such
as invalids require and withal taking into
these lowly homes a sweet influence and a
spirit of cheerfulness, and many a dear old
soul had said, "what a happy pair, how
well they are mated." The Spring had
come and the fields and meadows were
green with the fresh grass, and dotted with
cowslips and butter-cups, the hedges were
teeming with fragrant blossoms that filled
the air with sweet perfume and on every
tree the birds were caroling songs of melody
and all nature rejoiced in the spirit of love-
liness.
	Maitland Walton had returned from the
metropolis and every day rode to the castle,
Lady Anna and Clair joining him in riding
or walking through and around the beauti-
ful grounds and parks that were teeming
with beauty and bloom. Lady Anna was
profoundly happy and everything wore
color de rose for her; and she could not see
why her cousin should be so melancholy, at
the approaching nuptials.
	Coming into the room one day suddenly
after a saunter through the fields she dis-


covered her cousin in tears, and without
stopping to consider, threw her arms around
her and thinking to console her; with tell- 
ing her good news said, “don’t cry Janie
Uncle Rob is coming and we shall have the
jolliest times and he’ll be best man at the
wedding.” The very best medicine Jane
Conway could have had was to hear that
Mr. Harrison was coming, for she knew
she must be brave now, there must be no 
shadow on her brow, he must not suspect
her secret (if in deed she had one) and to
avoid her cousin Anna’s suspicions of the
real cause of her desponding, she professed
to be delighted at the same time inwardly 
accusing herself of hypocrisy.
	“When is your Uncle coming?” she in-
quired as if apparently anxious. “We
must prepare rooms for him Anna, you
know he likes apartments rather secluded
as he has so much writing to do; I will see
to it immediately, it may take some time to
get the rooms well aired, for Mrs. Burke
will persist in keeping them so close, that
they really get musty.” All this to keep
Anna from noticing her excitement and
away she went to look after the comfort of
the expected guest. And sure enough she
had not much time to lose, for he arrived
the same night. Miss Conway was not
there to greet him, though he asked for her
directly after his coming into the house,
	“And what a dear old place this is,” he
said to Anna, “it is like a fairy tale or le-
gend to be here, everything is so quaint and
antique; one ought to have wonderful
dreams of the past in a place like this
whether waking or sleeping. And so your
cousin is to be married very soon Clair tells
me” said he addressing Anna “and the
Doctor, is he young and accomplished that
he carries off such a prize?”
	“No Uncle Rob he is not young he is get-
ting grey, but he is very wise and good,
and excellent in every respect.”
	“And so is your cousin wise and good as
you say of the Doctor, I hope she will be
happy, she deserves the best of husbands;”
this last with an emphasis that made Anna
stare, and she wondered why he was so
particular about the matter. “You will
see Dr. Bland tomorrow I’m sure, Uncle
Rob and of course you will like him; the
wedding is to take place a week from
tomorrow.”
	“So soon,” said her uncle, and Rob Har-
rison with out further comment, asked to
be shown to his room.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


