[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 7 | Title: SOUL MESSAGE. | Author: Unknown]

SOUL MESSAGE.

	WORDS are the lights which the genera-
tions carry, these kindle lamps along the
track of life, some of them give a glorious
lustre, clear as the most brilliant star, while
others are dim flickering and uncertain.—
We may read sermon's in stones and run-
ning brooks, it is said, and marvelous tales
are whispered through forest trees, through
song of bird and hum of bees, but there
came to me this hazy, chilly morning a
message through a small shell and little
pebble picked up on the shore of the sacred
Sea of Galilee. That little pebble and tiny
shell placed in my hands as a memento of
travel in the Holy Land were unconsciously
the bearer of a real soul message. It lifted
me from out the four square walls of my
room, bore me away from common cares
and common things and from all sense of
tired feet or weary brain.—Holding them
in my hand I went out with thee, dear one,
over the mountains and by the sea of Gali-
lee through the gardens of Jerusalem, to
the Red Sea, River Jordan bathed in its
tide, went up to the mountain of Tempta-
tion and over the plains of Gennesareth
wandered through towns and cities that
were once busy with life and swarming like
a great bee-hive, now in ruins, desolate and
deserted.
	 North and East, over the valleys and
cities of Syria, far beyond the great desert
to the plains of Assyria and Babylonia
where once were teeming multitudes and
magnificent palaces,—we stood together by
the mighty pyramids while they told us of

[Column 2]

the past greatness and splendor of a re-
nowned kingdom—we gazed out and over
the desolated, queenly City of Tyre once the
heart and centre in many respects ot the
world's life—we looked back and down the
ages where we saw countless caravans mov-
ing over the mountain passes and along the
narrow coast tracks bearing the wealth of
Arabia, of Babylonia, of India, and from the
busy harbor saw the mighty ships sail
away laden with the same merchandise for
the Colonies planted along the shores of
Greece, Italy, Africa and Spain.—Proud
City of Tyre! once rejoicing over the fall of
Jerusalem thinking to enrich thyself still
further from its ruin.
	Where is thy greatness and beauty now?
Where are the silver and fine gold that thou
didst heap up as the dust and as mire of
the streets? Where are thy swift horses
and magnificent gilded Chariots, thy sons
and daughters, and pleasant houses? Thy
lofty watch towers? Thy proud Navy and
Merchant princes? The Lord God has 
brought the deep upon thee, and great
waters covered thee," and thou who wert
once so famous art now but a heap of
ruins.
	The Hebrew prophet proclaimed the
message against thee which God had given
him. That message has been literally ful-
filled. Heaven and earth shall pass away
but my word shall not pass away.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.


