Some Findings of the White House Conference
By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics
(A Resume of the Purpose of, the Conference and an Adaptation of the Committee Reports on Education and Training )*
The spirit of the 1930 White House Conference was expressed in the invocation in which the plea was made for all children everywhere, that they might have health of body, purity of mind, and joy in work and play. Appreciation of the keen interest of President Hoover was expressed several times during the proceedings. It may be that he will go down in history as the President who was most interested in child welfare. Perhaps the outstanding, as well as the most beautiful, paragraph in President Hoover's speech to the assembled group and the millions who heard him on the air, typifies the serious and purposeful interest of those who participated in the convention proceedings. This paragraph in its prose simplicity reminds one of the Gettysburg Address. The paragraph reads: "We approach all problems of childhood with affection. Theirs is *This article is merely a means of giving wider publicity to some of the findings of the committees. Parts of the reports necessarily are abridged, In some few cases for the purpose of clarity, sentences or paragraphs are expanded. Although, in many instances, the words are not identical with the original, in all cases an earnest endeavor has been made to translate the spirit of service typified by the work of the committee of the White House Conference in child health and protection. These findings are an attempt to translate into thought the findings of the committee in behalf of the millions of American children.憂ean Cox. The province of joy and good humor. They are the most wholesome part of the race, the sweetest, for they are fresher from the hands of God. Whimsical, ingenious, mischievous; we live a life of apprehension as to what their opinions may be of us, a life of defense against their terrifying energy; we put them to bed with a sense of relief and a lingering devotion. We envy them the freshness of adventure and discovery of life; we mourn over the disappointments they will meet." The purpose of the Conference appointed for cooperative public service at the call of the President of the United States is: 1. To study the children of the nation and the various forces influencing them. 2. From the findings of the investigation to recommend the wisest possible course for their future direction. The four divisions of study were Medical Service, Public Health Service and Administration, Education and Training, and Rehabilitation. Out of this large field, however, consideration will only be given to the section on Education and Training. One of the keynotes through the reports on education, as well as others, was the importance of having the findings of the conference measured in the difference it makes in the lives of human beings. It was suggested that each member of the conference make of himself an interpreter so that the masses of the citizens will appreciate what the 100 work of the committee may mean in terms of child life and social advance. Three thousand people, experts in the fields of child welfare and protection assembled in Washington at the call of President Hoover for the third White House Conference on child welfare. About twelve hundred of the group were members of the various committees who have been working for more than a year to determine needs and set up a program which will enable those people directly associated with child care and training to improve child health and welfare. It is felt the application of these findings will result in improved standards for a full generation. The nation should be proud of the fact that so many well trained people freely gave their time without pay for the betterment of children. The White House Conference was virtually an all star performance. Research had been made, studies carried on, and messages delivered by outstanding people in the various fields. It was a summation and deliberation on the part of many committees which composed the four sections. These reports are a cross section of the expert thought and endeavor concerning the welfare of children. The assembling of this expert opinion and inquiry should stimulate every effort to give to the children of America their fullest measure of opportunity and development. It gives consideration to the fact that all children differ in character capacity and inclination. In order to give them their full chance they must have that service in education which develops their special qualities. There was a definite feeling that it is sound public policy, not charity, to provide special treatment and training for all types of exceptional children, for by so doing opportunity may be given children of greater capacity to make a real contribution to the common welfare and for the majority of the children of better capacity to become self supporting instead of possible dependents or delinquent members of society. Out of these deliberations may result organization of classes or schools for the exceptional children which will later fit them for leadership in the community and nation. The interest in dependents and delinquents continued from the previous conferences and sentiment seemed to be centered in efforts to give these less fortunate children such training in terms of mental attainments as will make of them happy and self supporting members of society. Education and Training The most important agency in child health and protection is the family. Although statistics on marriage, divorce, size of families, and proportion of births have been interpreted by some to mean disintegration of family life, the committee concluded that the family fills deep seated needs of the human race and will endure. The question for consideration is: Shall we let the family be merely the product of a changing environment, adapting itself to it, or are there not fundamental values in family life which should be conserved and the environment adjusted to them? Because of the changing social and economic conditions there is need for study upon the fundamental human values in family life. Dr. Groves of North Carolina is making an outline analyzing family functions in reference to the child. Dr. Burgess of Chicago with the cooperation SOME FINDINGS OF WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE of school people has had records collected from 8000 school children. These were analyzed to determine factors in the home environment which seem to affect personality development of children. Relationship was found between the degree in which children confide in parents and other factors of family life such as group celebration of holidays, recreational activities in common, the type of control exercised by the parents over children, source of first information about sex, and the general personality adjustment of the child. The committee under the leadership of Dr. Burgess of the Chicago University endeavored to find out in what way home is an educational influence in the life of the child. They wanted to find a means of measuring the effect of different kinds of homes and family life upon children. This committee studied a total of 8600 children of the 7th, 8th, and 9th grades. There were: 1970 urban children 1200 native white children 991 children from small cities 1271 negro children These groups were selected so as to show differences. Dr. Burgess and his committee have shown that by use of statistical technique and data they are able to measure the development of personality of the individual as well as the effect upon the individual of family and community relationship. 'amily relationships make a definite contribution in personality adjustment. Habits and social customs of the family seem to have a definite relationship upon the personality development, e.-g., the charm of social personality which results from the informal give and take and lessons in consideration of others around the family dinner table is lacking 101 among children where meal time is merely informal piecing. Parents must realize that the most sacred thing to every child is his personality. Every child needs help to grow and expand his personality so that he will be able to do his best and thus make the most of his possibilities. There is need for wider belief that boys and girls ate citizens in the making rather than in the unmaking. Another study made by Dr. Kachel Stutzman of the Merriil Palmer School on Home Atmosphere has opened up a new method of research. This study was made upon fifty children from well adjusted homes and the same number of children from poorly adjusted hoines. Some of the conclusions reached follow: Children showing optimism development usually have good homes. Factors which contribute to wholesome character development are more usually found in good homes. There is less tension and unhappiness in the relationship of father and mother庸ather to chiidren, mother to children, and children to each other. In maladjusted homes children of same economic level are more interested in getting jobs. The reasons frequently are ambition for economic independence and desire to be away from home unpleasantness. The well adjusted children do better work in school. In the maladjusted home there is frequently partiality shown to different children. Where mother is maladjusted she is apt to favor one child. In well adjusted homes parents are interested in what the child wants to do, while in the wrong kind of home the child is not given support in his natural wholesome interests. 102 In terms of discipline, parents in happy homes are inclined to ignore mistakes and praise successes, while in less happy homes parents punish mistakes and award successes. In the maladjusted home likes and dislikes are much more noticeable. Children alternate between liking and disliking people. Maladjusted parents have less happy children. Frequently they, themselves, have come from maladjusted homes. Maladjusted parents frequently have differences over each other's religion and other out of home interests. The personality of both child and adult reflect the influences from the kinds of homes which have been responsible for their training and lack of satisfactory home experiences. It is expected further study will be carried along in this field. The great question is: What are those fundamental human values in family life which are the product of interaction of personalities within the family? While the physical environment, the cultural background, and the social status of the family undoubtedly aid or deter the development of individuals in that family, it must not be forgotten that some fine individuals do come from homes which would be rated poor. There is at present no exact measure of personal relationships. The family must depend for guidance upon the principles of human behavior as they have been interpreted in the fields of psychology, psychiatric, and mental hygiene. A further knowledge of these principles applied to daily living will doubtless contribute to better understanding of cause and effect in the actions of human beings. Importance of economic stability for successful family life was also given careful consideration. Studies RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE show that worry over employment and finances contribute to maladjusted homes. Inability of wife to spend income wisely contributes to unsuccessful standards of living. If all of the children of America are to have satisfactory opportunities, miseries and worries of poverty must in some way be overcome. Additional proof on the importance of wholesome home life is shown by a statistical study showing there are more breakdowns in individuals where society has had to assume a part of the parental role. While the function of different families, as well as the responsibilities of the individuals within the families, vary to some extent, it can not be denied that always the basic function has been the rearing and caring for the young. When this responsibility is shifted or denied, the defenseless children suffer the most. Present social and economic customs are the result of the graduai expansion of industry which have removed from the home certain functions formerly considered as inherent in family life. With these changes, some losses in satisfactions and interest in work have resulted. Individual achievement in the home has become less marked because of the increased demands for machine made clothing, furniture, furnishings and equipment. Foods served which are prepared outside of the home have less personal appeal than those made under the home roof. The emotional reaction for home prepared foods has _ probably been over estimated. While the committee reported food as a basic need, they also gave consideration to cost, amounts, nutrients, appearance, flavor, palatable preparation, and attractive service in pleasing surroundings, They reached the conclusion that where the food SOME FINDINGS OF WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE is prepared is of less importance in family life than where and how it is served. The service of food from the standpoint of family integrity was given careful thought. The family dining table furnishes a means ot recreation and of bringing the family together which unquestionably may have an important intluence upon family life. From studies made by the committee, it seems necessary to reevaluate standards in family living. Increased attention should be given to the welfare of older children. Studies show that traditions of the family have more value than hitherto believed. The observance ot birthdays and holidays in the home has distinct social, emotional, and educational possibilities. From the studies made by the committees, functions of the home and of family life have been extended. Besides the nurturing of the young, the other big function of family life is to send out individuals better able to face life than were their parents. In accordance with these principles, the ideal family would pro-vide for the child a friendly and hospitable environment for the development of his emotions and abilities. It would insure him a secure relationship in a group of dignified human beings by whom he was loved, protected and encouraged. For his own self respect, the child wants to belong to a family, to have his own name, his own parents, and his own things. In other words, he wants to belong and be considered a member of the group. He needs the affection, the security, and the encouragement of the family to fortify him for successful contacts with the outside world. If his parents are happy in their adjustment to each other, if they are working hopefully toward the fulfillment of an ideal of living, if they love their 103 children with a sincere and unseltfish love, in short, if they are well balanced individuals, gifted with a certain amount of insight, they are apt to provide the child with a wholesome emotional background which will contribute more to his development than mere material advantages. The educational equipment necessary for parents to see the child as a whole will demand a change in emphasis from that which is exclusively informational and utllitarian to the development of appreciations of values in human life. More stress in education needs to be placed upon the development of the individual and less upon the teaching of facts. More thought needs to be given to how much a life is worth rather than how much the person is worth in terms of dollars and cents. One of the most outstanding things stressed by the Conver: tion is the importance of home and family in the solution of the problems facing the child. In order to solve this problem, we must go back to the parent who has charge of the child. There is need for universities and colleges to put into their curricula for students in training, courses for the training of parents on the job. Parents need to realize that due to the complex civilization and many activities open to the child there is danger of over stimulation to the child. This may begin at infancy and extend beyond the time covered by the scope of this investigation. Homes that are overbusy react upon the child. Telephone, radio, athletics, movies, all contribute to the strain of over stimulation. These stimulating influences operating through a great part of the twenty-four hours do not afford periods of rest and re104 laxation that contribute to the development of nervous and emotional stability. Children, like other animals, need periods of rest and relaxation. They need opportunities to think, to read, to day dream in order to make use of imagination. Dr. Ray Croft of Princeton University who deals with boys having nervous and emotional difficulties says that a large proportion of these have their roots back in early childhood. Additional dangers added to those of early childhood lie in the tendency toward exploitation of the boy in school athletic contests. These endanger the boy's future success. Criticism was also registered against competitive athletic games and sports for girls. Home economics education should play a significant role in furthering ideals of family living through furnishing information to direct family consumption and knowledge and skills for the management of the surviving household activities. It has a special challenge to develop ｩ the individual to see these activities, not as ends in themselves, but in relation to the promotion of wholesome family life. Many of the recommendations of the conference must be made effective through the education of parents. The following recommendations are listed: 1. Further research is important in the field of the family. Only on the basis of research can an adequate science of the family be established and problems of family relationship be treated. One specific research recommendation, growing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out of the studies of the committee, is that provision be made for further development of the indices for measuring family relationships and home atmosphere tentatively formulated by the White House Conference, 2. Further research is needed on the social and economic factors affecting family life today. The relationship of these factors to the family is worthy the same careful consideration that has been given to the conditions of production in relation to industry and commerce. 3. Institute or research centers to study family relationships and processes of family life as well as the economic and social factors oper-ating upon the family life today should be established. These should integrate the various disciplines affecting family life. 4. Family consultation centers should be established with a staff composed of specialists in home economics, housing, social work, law, psychiatry, psychology, and sociology. These centers should be prepared to give advice and information on the different problems of family life. 5. Special attention should be paid to Italians, Mexicans, and other immigrant groups who come into cities from rural backgrounds and who need help in adjusting themselves to the conditions of American urban life. 6. Special attention should also be paid to the negro family in order that it may attain that economic security necessary for staple family life, and may also be assisted to the attainments of higher ideals of family life.
