REPORTS.

	Paris, Bear Lake Co. Idaho Territory, Sept.
7th 1880. Minutes of the fourth semi-annual
Conference of the Relief Societies of the Bear
Lake Stake of Zion, held in the St Charles
Meeting House Aug. 28th and 29th, 1880.
Saturday morning Aug. 28th 10 A. M. Pres-
ent Prest. Julia P. Lindsay with her Counselors
M. E. Collings M. M. Rich. President James
H. Hart,Elders Hugh Findly, W. M. Allred and
sevreal other brethren. Meeting called to or-
der by President J. P. Lindsay, choir sang 
“Come thou desire of all the Saints,” opening,
prayer by Elder W. M. Allred, Pres. J. P. Lind-
say made some very interesting remarks suited
to the occasion and expressed pleasure at see-
ing so many assembled together. Notwith-
standing the busy season, hoped they would
enjoy the spirit of God in their meetings dur-
ing Conference. The roll was called for the
Stake officers, also officers of branch Relief
Societies and Primary Associations. Minutes
of previous Conference read and accepted.
Statistical and Financial reports of Relief So-
cieties and Primary Associations also read.
Counselor Elizabeth Collings, advised the sisters
to stop fault-finding, build each other up and
work unitedly in building up God’s kingdom,
did not think it was advisable for those pro-
fessing to be Latter-day Saints to continue
moving from place to place, unless called upon
by the servants of God holding the holy priest-
hood. Then it was our duty to go whenever
wanted, and to do all that lay in our power to
build up and beautify the place designated.
Counseled them to attend their meetings.
Obey those placed to preside “Obedience is
better thnn sacrifice.” By attending to these
things we could claim the blessings of the Al-
mighty. Counselor Mariah Rich, in her re-
marks exhorted the sisters to be faithful in
keeping the covenants they, had made trust in
the Lord when they arose to speak and He
would put words into their mouths to the
edification of their hearers. Never partake of
the Sacrament with bad feelings against any
one; if there is any wrong try to make it right,
for all wrong must be righted either here or
hereafter. The choir sang an Anthem, “The
Lord is King.” Benediction by Prest. James
H. Hart.
	Saturday at 2 P. M., after the usual exercises
of singing and prayer the Presidents of the
various branches gave verbal reports of their
respective societies which were very satisfactry.
President Lindsay spoke at some length on the
duties of parents and children, hoped the sisters
would be liberal in donating of their abundence
to help build temples, gather the poor, sustain

[Column 2]
the needy that were in our midst and do all the
good that lay in their power whenever an op-
portunity presented itself. Contrasted the con-
dition of the Saints in these valleys with those
who lived in Nauvoo; who in poverty and sick-
ness, through diligence and faithfulness built
a temple to the Lord. And that we who were
so abundantly blessed and prospered could do a
great amount of good if we would.
	Mrs. Emeline Rich said her hopes and desires
were with the Church and always had been;
felt interested in everything that was calculated
to forward the work of God, was pleased to see
the progress the sisters were making and the
amount of good they were doing. Prest. James
H. Hart encouraged the sisters very much in
his remarks and commended them for the good
work they had done, approved of the active
part they had taken in gleaning and saving
grain. Also for the hats they were beginning
to make, hoped they would continue to improve
in every thing that was calculated to build up
the kingdom of God. Singing. Benediction.
	Sunday morning Aug 29th, 10 A. M., meet-
ing opened in the usual manner. The Y. L.
M. I. A., occupied the forenoon.
	Sunday afternoon Aug. 29th, 2 P. M., meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer. Sacra-
ment administered, after these services were
over, the Presidents of Primary Associa-
tions reported verbally, each showing that
much good is resulting amongst the children
attending those meetings. Pres. Lindsay said,
she had listened with great pleasure to the
remarks made by the young ladies; also to hear
of so much good resulting among the children
through the diligent labors of presidents and
other officers of these organizations, counseled
mothers to do all that lay in their power to send
their children to the meetings; showed the nec-
essity of our becoming self-sustaining; gave
valuable instructions to presidents and officers
of Relief Societies and Primary Associations
regarding their respective duties. Enjoined
upon the sisters the necessity of taking the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the good they
would derive from reading its pages; also that
other church publications should be patronized
more than they were. Mrs. Alice M. Rich
tendered her resignation as Stake Secretary for
Relief Societies, which was accepted and a vote
of thanks given her for the able and efficient
manner in which she attended to the duties of
Secretary while acting in that office. Mrs.
Elizabeth Pugmire, was appointed Secretary
for Relief Soeieties in Bear Lake Stake and
Mrs Annie Laker Stake President. for Primary
Associations, Mrs. Elizabeth Pugmire and Mrs.
Elizabeth Hunt, her Counselors; Miss Luana
Booth, Secretary; Miss Charlotta Hunt Treas-
urer. Conference adjorned for six months.
Choir sang Anthem “Awake put on thy strength
O Zion,” &c. Benediction by James H. Hart.
 	 Statistical and Financial report of the
Relief Societies of Bear Lake Stake from their
first organizatiou Aug. 28th, 1868. to Aug.
28th, 1880. 
	Statistical: teachers, 126; members 396;
total officers and members,559; meetings held,
801; average attendance, 207; church papers
taken 115; WOMEN'S EXPONENT 38.
	Financial: Receipts in cash,$760,78 receipts
in property, $1720,79; wheat gleaned and
donated by members, bushels 547, lbs. 46; dis-
bursed, cash to the needy, $21,76; home indus-
tries, 86,92; emigration, 127,30; missionaries,
69,50; temple, 85,20; books, 26,47; total, $417,
15; property to the needy, 617,19; temple
504,43; missionaries, 10,40; home industries,
590; total, $1137,92; on hand: cash 343,63;
property,582,87; wheat,bushels 547, lbs. 46.
