(CONCLUDED.)

	When  this  exercise  is  finished, in  this  de-
partment, as in all the others, the signal is given
and  the  pupils proceed with the  usual  studies
of  the  day.  As  a  teacher,  Brother  Milton
H. Hardy has proven  one of the most efficient
we have ever had in our Territory. His order,
system,  and  method  of  arousing  the  latent
powers of his pupils, filling  all with a keen de-
sire to excel, is something  that  strikes all who
take  the  trouble to sound his pupils, or listen
to his instructions in the schoolroom. Like the
snow upon the  mountain,  which sinks into the
thirsty earth, to burst forth in the pleasant  val-
ley  below  into  a  living  spring  of  sparkling
water, do  we  behold  the  fruits  of  such  labor
bestowed upon our children.
	Let us take our place in the room where the
Principal  of  this  Academy is  imparting to his
scholars  the  words  of inspiration  and  truth
with which he is ever endowed. Monday and
Thursday the Book of Mormon is taken as the 
text. Its origin and  value are fully  explained,
together with the wondrous manner in which it
was  brought forth—these are  laid before the
school. Everything is based  upon our faith in
God, the spirit of order, truth, and an exalting
of our fallen natures is instilled into the mind
of all. As  Brother Maeser  has  unlimited con-
fidence  in  his  scholars, each  one tries to keep
that confidence alive, and the only punishment
which  is  ever  administered is the thought that
this sacred confidence is gone,
	The theology  exercises,  as  given  by  him,
take  the  most  essential  points  taught in  the
New Testament and  Book  of Mormon;  also  a
portion  of  each  Wednesday  as a  grand theo-
logical  class, where  students  are  called  upon
for exercises from sacred works, bearing of tes-
timony and essays upon good subjects.
	He also  teaches  the  higher  branches  of
science, such  as  Latin, Botany,  Geology  &c.;
Mathematics  are  taught by Prof. Booth;  Sur-
veying,  Trigonometry  and  Phonography  by
Prof. Hardy.
	This is  only a bird's  eye  view of the labors
done  in  one  department, and I will  leave oth-
ers to tell the rest, with the  addition  of music,
	My brief  review  of  the  Theological  depart-
ment of the Academy must  be  understood  by
my  sisters  as  only  one  pillar  of  education
adopted here, but  it  is the most important and
receives the most  thought  from  the  teachers.
And  if  you, my dear  sisters, could  behold the
scene  as I  do  from  day  to  day, the  gradual
awakening  of  the  truth  of  this  great  work
upon the minds of the children of the Latter-
day  Saints, you  would  say "Glory  to  God,"
that we  have  such  an  institution in our midst,
where your children and mine can drink in and
receive  of the  blessing of a  testimony and  as-
surance  of the  true  object  of  life.  Will  you
help  sustain it by  your  faith  and  prayers, as
well  as  by  the  attendance  of your  children,
when possible?
	One word for the  Normal.  In  this  depart-
ment  is  brought  to  bear  the  experience  of a
teacher who has been teaching school for about
thirty years, and  the  system,  together with the
practical workings  of  school  teaching  is  so
thorough  and  complete  that  the  influence  of
those who  graduate here  is  already being  felt
and  appreciated by all who have  opened their
schools to them. 	
	Besides the watchful  care  extended  over
each one in school, there is  a  domestic  depart-
ment instituted, with strict regulations as to the
hours kept  by  those  who  attend, and  a  visit
from either a teacher or an  old  student once a
week, to find if  all things are agreeable between
host and hostess and boarders.  Thus  securing
n  almost  fraternal  care  over  those  who are
way from home, and  keeping  bnt  one  object
in  view,  the  elevating  of  God's  children  on
earth, and securing their eternal salvation.
Z. Y. Williams.


WE are proud and happy to be able to state
that Hon. George Q, Cannon has accepted the
nomination tendered him at the late Territo-
rial Convention. We are very sorry we have
not space to publish the letter of the committee
and his reply. Personally he is highly respect-
ed in Washington, as well as in Utah; it is the
people he represents against whom so much
prejudice exists. He will go to Congress with
the sincere esteem of the people who will have
cast their votes for him, and the full and im-
plicit confidence that he will maintain un-
flinchingly the dignity of his position, as the
representative of the rights of the whole peo-
ple of Utah Territory.


LUCY Stone of Boston one of the most truly
liberal minded women of the age, has written a
concise but able article in the "Woman's
Journal," Oct. 9, on the recent attempt to dis-
franchise the women of Utah. She strikes at
the root of the matter when she says, "It would
certainly never have been attempted if these
citizens had not been Mormons." Good for
this brave noble woman. We shall not forget
her courageous words.


[Column 1]
DR.  ELLIS  R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bank.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

