COURT IN THE MANDAMUS CASE.

In the matter of  the  petition  and  affidavit  of 
George R. Maxwell for writ of mandamus,  di-
rected to Robert T. Burton,Assessor and Regis-
ter   of Salt Lake  County,  Territory  of Utah.
SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY  OF  UTAH.
Sutherland & McBride
for [Relator.
Zera Snow,
Zerrubbabel Snow,
J. L. Rawlins,
Richards &  Williams,
Bennett & Harkness,
A. Miner,
	For Respondent.
	A  petition  was presented  to  this Court at its
present session  by the relator for a writ  of man-
damus,  to  compel Robert T.  Burton,  Assessor
and   Register  of  voters  for Salt  Lake County,
Utah   Territory,  to  erase and  strike  from  the
list  of  voters of, Salt  Lake  County,  made by
him the name  of  the  following  persons,  viz.:
Emeline   B.   Wells, Ma[-]ia  M. Blythe and  Mrs.
A. G. Paddock, and also the names of all  women
whose  names  thereon  appear  on  the  aforesaid
list,  or  that  he  show  cause before this  court
on  the 29th day of September, why  he has  not
done so.   Also that  in  the  meantime  the  said
officer  be ordered not  to return said  list  or  any
copy thereof  to any election officer until the fur-
ther order of this court.
	An alternative  writ  was  ordered at the  time
of filing the petition and the  cause  came up for
hearing  on the day  mentioned  in  the  alterna-
tive writ,  to wit: Sept. 29, 1880.
	The respondent  on the day fixed for the hear-
ing appeared by counsel who interposed a de-
murrer  to  the  petition  and  writ,  assigning as
grounds therefor,
1.  That this court  has  no jurisdiction  of  the
subject of this action.
2.  Neither the petition  nor  writ herein state
facts  sufficient to constitute  a  cause  of  action,
thus raising two questions for the  determination
of this court.
	It has been   heretofore  held  by the  Supreme
Court of this  Territory, in the case  of Shepperd
vs the 2nd District Court, that this  court has no
original jurisdiction to issue mandamus except to
enable it  to  exercise  its  appellate jurisdiction.
And the Court  in that  case  cites sections 1,907,
1,866  and  1,869 of  the  Revised  Statutes of  the
United States, and  the  3d section of an act enti-
tled, "An  Act in  Relation  to Courts and judicial
officers in the Territory  of  Utah,  (Poland law)
which are as follows:
	Sec. 1,907.   "The judicial power in Utah shall
be  vested  in   a  Supreme Court, District Court
Probate Court and the Justice of the Peace."


Sec. 1,869. "The jurisdiction both appellate
and original o the courts provided for by sec-
tion 1,907 shall be limited by law."
Sec. 1,860. "Writs of error, bills of excep-
tions and appeals shall be allowed in all cases
from the final decisions of the District Court to
the Supreme Court of all the Territories, respec-
ively, under such regulations as may be provid-
ed by law, but in no case removed to the Su-
preme Court shall trial by jury be allowed in
that court."
Third section Judicial act.
"The District Court shall have exclusive
original jurisdiction in all suits and proceedings
in chancery, and in all actions at law in which
the sum or value of the thing in controversy
shall be $300 or upwards.
The Supreme Court in passing upon these
laws, in the decision cited, says:
"Regarding the acts of Congress as the Su-
reme law of the Territory having a controlling
power similar to, if not co-extensive with the
constitution of any particular State over their
respective Legislatures and judicial depart-
ments, we are forced to the conclusion that, in
so far as section 445 of our Practice Act, which
provides that the writ of mandamus may be is-
sued by any Coury of this Territory, except a
[-]ustice of the Peace, is in conflict with the acts
of Congress above referred to, it is wholly
inoperative and void.
The decision of the Coury is based upon the
theory that the Acts of Congress in reference
[--] the courts referred to, are paramount to all
territorial legislation. In this theory we now
oncur, and if there is any Congressional enact-
ment which has the effect of making inoperative
and void, Section 445 of the Practice Act, then
of course the Act is void. So far as it confers
upon this court power to issue mandamus ex-
cept in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
It is insisted that the third section of the Act
in relation to courts and judicial officers in the
Territory of Utah as above quoted, resolves that
question. To a certain extent said third section
has the effect of limiting the jurisdiction of
this court, but only to that certain extent. It
confers upon the District Court, exclusive, orig-
inal jurisdiction in all suits or proceedings in
chancery, and in all actions at law in which the
sum or value of the thing in controversy shall
-e three hundred dollars or upwards.
To determine therefore whther the Congres-
sional enactment destroys the Legislative en-
actment, we must look into the character of the
proceeding wherein the rule is sought to be ap-
plied. Clearly if the case is a suit or pro-
ceeding in chancery, then the exclusive ori-
ginal jurisdiction over it is in the District
Court; and if the case be an action at law to
which the sum or value of the thing in con-
troversy shall be three hundred dollars or up-
wards, then the exclusive original jurisdiction
over it is in the District Court.
But if it is not a suit [-]r proceeding in chan-
cery, or it is not a suit at law wherein the sum or
value of the thing in controversy is three hun-
dred dollars or upwards, then the District
Court does not by virtue of the third section
obtain the exclusive original jurisdiction. The
Poland Bill confers upon Justices of Peace,
jurisdiction in all cases where the debt or sum
claimed shall be less than three hundred
dollars, thus giving to Justices' Courts concur-
rent jurisdiction with the District Courts in
such cases where the amount in controversy is
less than three hundred dollars.
Sec. 445 of the Practice Act provides that the
writ of mandamus "may be issued by any court
-- this Territory, except a justice's to any in-
terior tribunal, corporation, board or person to
compel the performance of an act which the law
specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an
office, trust or station." Under this provision
the relator has applied to this court for the writ,
and the demurrer interposed to his complaint
and affidavit raises the jurisdictional question,
and in the resolving that question it becomes our
duty to apply the rule of construction heretofore
referredto. The case is not a suit or proceed-
ing in chancery, and therefore the District
Court has not exclusive original jurisdiction
over it, nor is the amount involved in it $300 or
upwards, nor is it less than $300.
It has no monied value whatever, and has no
element calling for the chancery powers of the
court, but it is of that class of cases in which
the practice act confers upon this Court, under
the broad term any court, jurisdiction to issue
writs of mandamus.
To my mind there is a wide difference in the
office of the two writs, viz., mandamus and
pertoirari.
	The former is termed in our statute a writ of
mandate an dthe latter is termed a writ of re-
view.
Clearly in the one case looking to the enforce-
ment of some act or duty refused to be done
by an officer in the execution of a trust which
by law he is required to do or perform.
In the other looking to certain proceedings
had by some inferior tribunal, wherein there is
alleged error or other informality in the proceed-
ing which the superior court issues the writ,
desires to review, to ascertain if or not error or
informality exists.
	In the case of the writ of certiorari, I have
no doubt of the power of this court to issue it
for the purposes prescribed by the statute.
In the case of the writ of certiorari, I have
no doubt of the power of this court to issue it
for the purposes prescribed by the statute.
	In the case of the writ of mandamus, I hold
it can only be issued in the particular cases pro-
vided by the statute, and that the statute limits
the power to issue it to such cases wherein
it is sought to compel the performance of any
act which the law specially enjoins as a duty
resulting from an office, trust or station.
This case is not of the kind here spoken of.
The officer against whom this writ is directed
has performed his duty. We are not called upon
to command him to do any duty he has failed or
refused to perform, but we are asked to compel
him to undo an act which the law compelled
him to do and he has done. This we cannot do.
The validity of the law which imposed the
duty upon the respondent to enter the names
of the persons named in the register, cannot
be brought into question in a proceeding of this
kind. We find that there is a law on our
statute books in reference to registration, com-
pelling the respondent to do what we are now
asked to compel him to undo. We cannot, for
the purposes of this proceeding inquire into
its validity. Having satisfied ourselves that
the duty required by the statute to be perform-
ed, has been performed, nothing is left for us to
do. The office of the writ is not to require the
respondent to do something not within the
scope of his official authority. Beyond that he
cannot go, and this court could not compel him
to exceed the functions of his office. In this
case it was the duty of the respondent to enter
 the names upon the register,and having so entered
them he could not afterwards legally erase them,
and if he could not, then this Court cannot
through the agency of the writ of mandamus
compel him to.
Section 2 of the act of Feb. 22, 1878, provides
that it shall be the duty of the Assessor of
each county in perosn, or by deputy, at the time
each year, beginning in 1879, to take up the
transcript of the next preceding Registration
List and proceed to the revision of the same,
and for this purpose he shall visit every dwell-
ing house in each precinct, and make careful
inquiryif any person, whose name is of his list,
has died or removed from the precinct, or is
otherwise disqualified as a voter of such precinct,
and if so, to erase the same therefrom, or
whether any qualified voter resides therein,
whose name is not on his list, and if so to add
the same thereto in the manner provided in
the preceding section.
The preceding section imposes upon the Regis-
tration Offices the duty of visiting every dwell-
ing, house in each precinct and of making care-
ful inquiry as to any or all persons entitled to
vote, and to ascertain upon what ground such
person claims to be a voter, and shall require
each person entitled to vote, and desiring to be
registered, to take and subscribe an oath, in
form, or substance as therein prescribed.
Section 3 provides that it shall be the duty of
wach Assessor in person or by deputy, during
the week commencing the first Monday in June
of each year at his office to enter on his Registry
List the name of any voter that may have been
omitted, on such voter appearing and comply-
ing with the provision of the first section of
this act required for voters for registration pur-
poses.
By Section four he is required, on the comple-
tion of this list, to make out a list, in alpha-
betical order, for each Precinct, and to deliver
the same on or before July first in each year,
with all the affidavits, to the Clerk of the County
Court.
Having performed the duties thus prescribed,
the functions of the Assessor cease, and he has
no further duty to perform in regard to that
Registration List, until the beginning of the
year 1880, and having for that year pursued the
same course, he has no further duty to perform
with the Registration List for 1880, until the
beginning of the year 1881, and the List for 1880
is the one from which it is now sought to have

[Column 3]
the erasure made. This same act of Feb'y 22,
1878, provides how the name of any person in
said Registration List may be stricken there-
from, and by whom it shall be done.
"Sec. 7. The Clerk of the County Court, shall
file, and carefully preserve all said affidavits and
Registry Lists and shall make a copy of each
Precinct Registry List, and cause the same to
be posted up at least 15 days before any election,
at or near the place of election, and shall make
and transmit another copy to the Judges of
Election.
Sec. 8.--The Clerk of the County Court, shall
cause to be printed or written a notice which
shall designate the offices to be filled, and
stating that the election will commence at
---------(designating the place for holding the
polls,) one hour after sunrise, and continue
until sunset on the-----------day of-------, 18—.
(Naming the day of election.)
 Dated at-------A, D. 18---.
Clerk of County Court.
A copy of which shall be posted up, at least
15 days before the election, in three public
places in said Precinct, best calculated to give
notice to all voters. It shall also be the duty of
the Clerk of the County Court to give notice on
the lists so posted, that the senior Justices of
the Peace for said Precinct will hear objections
the rhe right to vote, or any person registered, un-
til sunset of the fifth day preceding the day of-
election. Said objections shall be made by a
qualified voter in writing and delivered to the
said Justice who shall issue a written notice to
the person objected to, stating the place, day
and hour when the objection will be heard.
The person making the objection shall serve, or
caused to be served, said notice upon the person
objected to, and shall also make returns of such
service to the Justice before whom the objection
shall be heard. Upoln the hearing of the case, if
said Justice shall find that the person ob-
ject4ed to is not a qualified voter, he shall, within
three days prior to the election, transmit a certi-
fied list of the names of all such unqualified
persons, to the Judges of Election, and said
Judges shall strike such names from the Regis-
try List before the opening of the polls.
Granting that the issuance of this writ is with-
in the jurisdictional powers of this court, it is
the law that it can be directed to an officer to
compel him to do a mere ministrial act which
the relator has a right to have doen by him,
and as to which the officer has no discretion.
But it must be to compel him to do a mere min-
isterial act, and this act must be one which by
law he is required to perform and which he has
refued to do.
Chief Justice Taney in the case of The State of
Mississipi vs. Johnson 4. Wall 475 has given a
clear definition of a ministerial duty. He says:
"A ministerial duty, the performance of which
may, in proper cases, be required, is one in
which nothing is left to discretion. It is a simple,
definite duty, arising under circumstances ad-
mitted or proved to exist and imposed by law."
Are the duties required of the Assessor in
relation to registering persons and preparing the
Registra- tiou Lists, mere ministerial duties?
If they are, and he has refused or neglected to
perform them, he undoubtedly could be com-
pelled by mandamus to perform them. Fol-
lowing the definition given to "a ministerial
duty" as above quoted, these acts do not fall
within it. To be ministerial, nothing is to be
left to the discretion of the Assessor. In the case
at bar, one of the duties imposed upon the Asses-
sor is to ascertain upon what grounds any and
all persons claim to be voters, and he is further-
more required to make careful inquiry if any
person whose name is on the list has died or
removed from the precinct, or is otherwise dis-
qualified as a voter. These are all duties which
require investigation, research and opinion, dis-
cretion and consideration. He must form a
judgment and act upon that judgment and it is
incumbent upon him to exercise discretion
in arriving at that judgment. He has the
discretion upon the judgment formed by him
from the inquiries he is required to make, to
erase from the Registration List of the preced-
ing year any name that may be thereon. All
these acts are not therefore mere ministe-
rial duties, but are duties as to which the officer
has a discretion, and are therefore not such du-
ties which he can be compelled to   do through
the agency of the writ of mandamus.
	It was insisted in argument by counsel for
the relator, that the court has the power by
mandamus to compel the respondent to perform
an act not within the scope of his authority, if
his refusal to do the act would work an injury.


[Column 1]

	This court cannot impose a duty on an officer
which is not within the power imposed on him
by law. A mandamus will not be granted to
command any person to exercise a jurisdiction
which that person is not most clearly and cer-
tainly appointed to and bound by law to exer-
cise; for the court will not grant such writ ex-
cept it clearly see that there is a power lodged
in the person against whom the mandamus
is prayed."
	In annoucing this opinion on the question of
the right of this Court to issue the writ, His
Honor Judge Boreman concurs with Judge
Hunter, though upon other grounds, as would
appear from his opinion on file. Judge Emerson
does not agree with the majority of the Court
in this right, and hence dissents as to that
branch of the opinion. Judge Boreman dissents
from the majority of the Court in its opinion re-
fusing the writ,for the reasons stated in his opin-
ion on file.
	Judges Hunter and Emerson concur in refus-
ing the writ on the grounds stated in the major-
ity opinion.
	The demurrer is sustained.
		DISSENTING OPINION.
In the Swpreme Court of Utah Territory, June 
Term, 1880, adjourned to 25th September,
1880.

George R.  Maxwell,
	Plaintiff,
vs.
Robert T. Burton,
	Defendant.

