A LEAF FROM MY DIARY.

	September 28, 1880.—I got up very early
this morning, in order to have all things ready
and get to the depot in good time. Cousin
George and the little boys went along to carry
my things. There was quite a company of
us, and no doubt people thought the whole
family were going, but they didn't. Well, I
got safely on the cars, budgets, bundles and
satchels, and Cousin George got me a ticket for
home. The car was full of people, and they
all seemed to be going the same way. I de-
posited myself on the seat with my bundles, for
I was bound to keep an eye on them. I raised
the window and put down the blind, and set-
tled myself comfortably, taking out my paper
and pencil to note down anything I might see
by the way. As the car moved on there was
too much draught, so I raised the blind and
put down the sash, which gave me a better
view of the country, and I was enjoying my-
self immensely. Some people can't enjoy
themselves unless they are talking, and some
are never happy unless they are miserable, to
making some one else so, but I like a variety.
	Presently a gentleman came to a seat in fronr
of me, and finding it unoccupied, turned it
over and sat down vis-a-vis. Well, he sat down
in front of me, as I said before, and by the way
he looked at me I thought he wanted to be so-
ciable. I thought I'd try and be sociable too,
so I handed him one of my new books, just
pnblished. He looked at the outside of the
book, and then he opened it and looked at the
inside. Then he picked out a piece and com-
menced reading it. By and by he said: "Mad-
am, you are ambiguous." Now, ambiguity
never was one of my besetting sins. My worst
enemy never called me ambiguous, and I felt
like the woman who was having her husband
tried in court for beating her. "Madam," said
the judge, "does your husband beat you with
impunity?" "No, your honor," said she, "he
beats me with a stick."
	But I said nothing, only just looked at the
book and said, "How?" He explained the
matter to me and made a few general remarks
on punctuation and the ignorance of some peo-
ple, and went on reading. I leaned back in
my seat and made a few reflections on things
in general and ambiguity in particular. After
a while he leaned over toward me and said;
"Did you ever have any trouble in yonr early
life, that should give your writings a tone of
sadnes?" And I said, "No, not as I know of."
He picked out another piece and read it, and
then said: "When did you write this piece?"
"Oh, about twenty-five years ago." I almost
hated to say so long ago, but it was the truth
and I said it. "Well," said he, "didn't you
know the Cullom Bill made it a crime?"
"What a crime?" said I, wondering if I had
been ambiguous again. "Why," he said, "ad-
vising a man to marry two wives." Now I
was in a fix, worse and worse. I studied the
matter over a while and then said: "I must
have written that before the Cullom Bill passed,
because I wrote that when I was first married,
and I had been married a long while when the
Cullom Bill passed." And then I sat back
and reflected on the perversity of human na-
ture, and how it could be I had committed a
crime in telling a man to marry two wives, and
finally concluded there would be no crime,unless
the man actually did marry two wives, and
then I might be accessory, through having told
him to; and my mind was getting tolerably
calm again, when he looked up and asked if he
should criticise my book in sections, or if I
wished him to do it all then. I said, by no
means, I would not trouble him so much.
He handed me the book and walked away. I
took up my pencil and wrote a poem something
like this:

[Column 2]
You ask me why a vein of sadness
	Mingles with my sweetest lay;
Dost thou think that naught but gladness
	Ever lay along my way.

Gliding on life's changing river,
	Many happy years I've spent;
Dost thou think that sorrow never
	To my heart her shaft has sent?

Could I part with father, mother,
	Children, home and dearest friends,
And each tender impulse smother,
	That a passing sadness blends?

Let the poet tell his fancies,
	Light they are, perhaps, and vain,
But their fitful fever dances
	Ever through his busy brain.

Dost thou never think that sorrow,
	Ofttimes seen in passing by,
Of his sympathy may borrow
	Teardrops to bedew his eye?

Hard the heart, and all unfeeling,
	That can know no other's pain;
Or, in sympathy revealing,
	Make the thought his own again.

Dost not know that poet's nature
	Is to feel what others see?
Loves he every human creature,
	And his spirit must be free.

Let him, then, indulge his dreaming,
	Be his fancies sad or gay;
And whate'er of sorrow seeming,
	He will sing his sweetest lay.

