AN APPLICATION FOR MANDAMUS.

	Boreman, Justice, delivered the following
opinion:
	As an original question, I have uniformly
been of the opinion thatthe Supreme Court had
no jurisdiction in such cases as this, except in
aid of its appellate powers. I have considered
that the Supreme Court had no distinctively
original jurisdiction, except in cases of habeas
corpus. The issuing of the mandamus as prayed
is an exercise of original jurisdiction. In the late
case of Emeline Young and others vs. George
Q. Cannon et al., this Court, after exhaustive
argument, declared that it had jurisdiction to
issue the writ of certiorari, which is an origi-
nal writ of the same class as that ofmandam-
us, and coming to us from the same source, the
King's Bench. I assumed that that decision was
to settle the practice, and that in this class of
cases, to which both certiorari and mandamus
belong, the Supreme Court would take jurisdic-
tion. I think it our duty now to stand by that
decision and not again unsettle the practice, as
I deem would be done if the writ were now de-
nied.
	Upon the merits of the case I cannot agree
with a majority of the Court. I deem this to
be a proper case in which to issue the writ. The
Legislature had no authority to allow anybody
to vote who were not citizens or who had not
declared their intentions to become such. It
has never enacted that parties who had declar-
ed their intentions to become citizens might
vote. Therefore the registering officer is not
authorized to allow anybody to vote who are
not citizens. The statute granting suffrage to
women allows them to vote without being citi-
zens if they are "the wife, widow or the daugh-
ter of a native-born or naturalized citizen."
Such a provision is utterly void, in my opinion,
and it is the duty of the registering officer to
obey the law of Congress and not that of the
Territory, when they conflict.
	The act conferring the elective franchise
upon women is unjust, as granting the franchise
to women upon easier terms than to males.
Men are required to be tax-payers by the stat-
ute, but not so with women; the men are all
required to be residents, but not so the women,
if they be the "wife, widow, or daughter;" and
all men who ask to vote must be citizens,or they
will be rejected, but not so with all women. This
matter of citizenship is important, when we
consider that the bulk of the population of this
Territory is of foreign birth, or children born in
this Territory of foreign parents. The statute
granting the elective franchise to women des-
troys the uniformity and impartiality which
should exist in regard to the qualifications of
voters, and the act which will do this is unjust
and ought not to be upheld. I do not think that
it will do to say that the requirement as to male
voters, which is not found amongst the require-
ments of the female voters, will be nugatory.
We have no right to conclude that this is so.

[Column 2]

The Legislature has expressed itself to the con-
trary. It first passed the statute allowing males
to vote, requiring them to be citizens, etc. It
afterwards passed the statute granting the
elective franchise to women, and subsequently it
enacts the registration law, wherein it retains all
the qualifications originally required as to male
voters. It certainly, therefore, had no intention
of repealing any part thereof. The two laws in
regard to suffrage show great unfairness and
lack of uniformity between the requirements
of male voters and those of female voters, but
as the Legislature so intended,what authority
have we to say that the one repeals the other.
This certainly does not exist by implieation as
they are statutes regarding different classes. The
two laws are not inconsistent further than that
one is unconstitutional, unjust and unfair to
the body of voters mentioned in the first,
and being so should not be upheld. If the Legis-
lature had power to make one set of qualifica-
tions for one class of voters and another set
for another class of voters, then the two laws
can stand,but if the Legislature has not such pow-
er, its attempt to do so is nugatory and void.
	For these reasons thus hastily stated I am un-
able to agree with my associates in denying the
writ in this case.


