LAMANITE SISTERS TESTIFY,

	At  a  meeting  of the  Relief Society  of In-
dianola  (Thistle  Valley), Sept. 16, 1880, Mrs.
Jane  Simons, President of the  Payson  Relief
Society, with  her  counselors  and other  sisters,
were present.   Meeting called to order by Pres.
Lodisia  Spencer.  Singing.   Prayer  by  Pres.
Jane Simons.   Singing.   Roll  called, thirteen
members  present. Minutes  of  previous  meet-
ing read and approved.
	Sister  Douglas  spoke  to the sisters: said she
felt glad  to have the privilege of meeting with
the  sisters  of  Indianola;  was  glad  to  see  the
improvement  made  by  the  Lamanite  sisters.
Also gave some very good instructions, and en-
couraged them to do right, and the Lord would
bless them. Interpreted  by Pres. John  Spen-
cer, who was present and acted throughout the
meeting as  interpreter.
	Sister Moore  said  she  felt  glad to meet with
the  sisters  of  Indianola, and  that  she lived in
this  day and  age  of  the world, when the Gos-
pel had been made known to the human family;
and gave some very good instructions. Prayed
the Lord to bless them all.
	Sister Hancock said she was glad to have the
privilege of living in  this day. She  felt  that
the Spirit  of God  was  in  their  midst to-day.
Said she could see a great  improvement in the
Lamanites;  also felt well.
	Sister Martha  Simons  spoke  to  the  sisters;
said  she  felt  thankful  to  God  for having the
privilege  of  meeting with the  Lamanite sisters
of  Indianola. Said  we  ought  to  be  faithful
and  set a good example  to the Lamanites, and
also teach them to be cleanly and to have faith
in  God;  and  gave  other  good  instructions.
Prayed  that  God  would  bless  those  who  are
called to lead the Saints here in Indianola.
	Sister  Phebe (Lamanite) said  she  felt  glad
to see the day when the white and the red sis-


ters  could  mingle  together. Said she knew it
was right to keep  herself  clean;  and  also  en-
couraged the sisters to diligence.
	Sister  Mary  Tackipo  (Lamanite)  said  she
felt glad to  meet  with the sisters from  Payson;
had known some of them for a  long time. Said
she  was  learning  to  keep  house, and assisting
her husband in his labors. Said  she  liked  it
better than her former way of doing.
	Bro. Joseph(Lamanite) said he was glad to see
the sisters from Payson. Said the Indians with
him  felt well;  felt  like  doing right, and loved
peace.
	Sistsr  Hannah  Moritze (Lamanite) said  she
felt well in hearing the  sisters  who had spoken
there that day. Was anxious to  learn to keep
house and to keep herself  clean.
	Sister  Annetta  Panawatts  (Lamanite) said
she felt well and was glad to hear what she had
heard. Was willing to learn how to become a
good  Latter-day  Saint,  but  was  rather slow.
Said she felt different altogether  since she had
been baptized.
	Sister  Jane  Simons  said  she  felt  well  in
meeting with  the  sisters, and  of  hearing what
she had heard  from  the white women and also
the Lamanite  sisters. Felt  that  the Spirit of
God  was  there  on  that  occasion.  Gave some
good instruction  and  encouraged the sisters to
diligence  and  to  be  faithful.  Said  she was
present at the dedication of the Kirtland Tem-
ple. Had  heard  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith
prophecy in  regard to  the Lamanites embrac-
ing the  Gospel  in  the  last  days. Related  to
them a testimony of the laying on  of hands.
	Sister  D, D. Tanner said  she felt well could
see  a  great  improvement  in   the   Lamanite's
since she came to this valley and in the  Relief
Society. Prest.  John Spencersaidhe was glad
to have the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the
Relief  Society  of  Indianola  and  said, I am
pleased to see  our Sisters  who  have been with
us to-day, said they  had an  object in  view  in
coming to visit the Lamanite Sisters, described
how he found the Lamanites, in their low state
some three years previous. Said  they  are now
commencing to gather  in,  they say the Latter-
day Saints are the only friends  they have  got
President Young  told  them  many  years  ago
that we desired to teach  them truth. There is
a great labor in teaching them in their temporal
as well as their spiritual affairs,also encouraged
the sisters in their labors.
	Sister Douglas felt glad to see the peace and
good order which we  have  had  to-day  would
like very much to visit the Lamanite sisters at
their homes.
	Sister Seely said that she felt  glad that   the
sisters had come to  visit and  hoped  it  would
not be the  last  time.  Said  she  felt  willing to
take hold and assist all  she could in  teaching
the Lamanite sisters, and also the brethren,said
they were making great improvements and are
willing to  learn  everything  that is  taught  to
them. Brother Joseph's wife was administered
to by Brother  John  Spencer.  President Lod-
isia Spencer spoke,  returned her thanks to the
visiting sisters  said she  appreciated  the  good
spirit  that had  been  there  that day  and was
glad her sisters had come from Payson  to visit
them and hoped it would not be the last time.
Singing.  Benediction by  Bro. Joseph, (Lam-
anite.)
	LODISIA SPFNCER Pres.
	M. V. SELMAN, CLERK,Protem.


