BEHOLD THE DAWN.

Show me the man, who is never afraid—
The cause of the poor, or oppress'd, to aid—
And I'll show you a prince! as brave, as just,
That the humblest, the highest, the world,could trust.

Show me, the man, who exerts his might—
To remedy wrongs, that the world things right—
And I'll show you a king! a champion true!
A Defender of Freedom! of Woman too!

So the being ungrateful, who tramples down—
The RIGHTS of WOMAN, is Knave or Clown;
Nearly, a Nero! he stands confest,
He could smite, like that hero (?,) his mother's breast.

And should not women have rights in common?
Who, is so base, to this fact deny?
Be sure, they are frauds, who would wrest, Rights from
	them;
Be sure they are creatures, would cheat and lie.

By her strength of affection, her strength of will—
Doth not a woman her task fulfill?
The mother of ALL! yea, their friend most true—
Is man so small, to with-hold her due?

Alas! even Adam, (O, lasting shame)
Sacrificed Eve, to a selfish aim:
"T'was the Woman that gave me the fruit" so fair—
'Tis the woman, O, Lord, that the Curse should bear.

Has she shrank from "The Curse," through the ages
	past?
Nay! Her Cross is her Crown, from first to last,
But if Woman should less of a heroine be,
The end of creation, be sure you'd see.

This fact is significant, passing strange—
Not a man would his lot, for a woman's exchange;
Or one, or the other, if men might choose—
The fate of a woman they'd all refuse.

And wherefore, should favor'd exempted man—
Oppression, append to the primal Ban?
Doth it follow, if Woman, a cross must bear—That it warrants the world to her Rights foreswear?

Or think you, because of that fatal "Fall"—
That Woman, is born to be held in thrall?
Because her submission, the Heaven's approve—
To "the one" who is worthy her special love.

It is strange that a woman her Right desires?
That of wrongs and suppression at last she tires?
Monopolies rarely the world have blest;
Distribution of blessings is always best.

Equality even, "The Sex" might claim;
But a change for good is their humble aim;
That the Laws are partial, and men perverse—
Is cruelty's Capping of Nature's Curse.

"The Laws" for protection should e'en be just,
But to love to affection the WEAK must trust(?)
Can we possibly picture a man of mind
Submitting his ALL to a God so blind?—

In the grand old Bible, 'tis thus we read
"Man's heart is decitful and wicked indeed,"
Wherefore should woman depend altogether—
For Justice, on aught that might change like the weather.

Love and protection a woman craves;
'Tis a blessing that many protection find,
But many a wife is a slave of slaves,
As many a husband is true and kind.

But what of the women who ne'er are blest—
With the staunch support of a manly breast?
Custom and Law should their rights defend—
But neither, Alas! is a woman's friend.

Custom with holds, ('tis as mean as true)
To Woman the half of her wages due;
And nothing at all, "the law relaxes—
If a woman can't vote, she must pay her taxes.

'Tis a woman's REQUEST that "The Laws" be fair,
And ere she wills it, Beware! Beware!

[Column 2]
Extend to woman, the means of grace—
Exalt through the mother, the human race.

Man's justice is tardy and sparsely given;
But the Rights of Women are dear to Heaven!
And a brighter Era, will woman see;
Behold the Dawn of her Destiny!

Is anything NEW, beneath the Sun?
Oh yes, in the WEST hath the DAY begun;
The dawn of Right in the west appears;
That shall brighter glow with the strength of years.

"The primitive Cuse" is enough to bear;
And the Women of Utah the first will share—
"The honors" with men nor content they'll be—
Till Women all over the earth are free.

