HOME AFFAIRS. 

	We received, through courtesy of the author,
Col. Juan Lewis, a new work of his, entitled
"Two of the Name." It is very finely written
in a pleasing style, and forms one number of a
series, styled the "Philadelphia Library." We
had the pleasure of meeting and forming a very
pleasant acquaintance with Mrs. Col. Lewis in
Washington. She is the able editor of "Wo-
man's Words," published at 625 Walnut Street,
Philadelphia. We count this journal, one of the 
very best among our exchanges, and always
look forward anxiously to its coming.
	"The Contributor," a monthly magazine, edit-
ed by Junius F. Wells, and representing the
Young People's Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, has completed one year and issued the first
number of its second volume. The new num-
ber for October is improved by the addition of
ten pages of reading matter. It is certainly well
worth the subscription, two dollars per year. The
articles in this number present a pleasing vari-
ety—historical, philosophical, sentimental and
general, with "Sketches from Life," that may
be termed humorous, and which are a happy
contrast to the solid reading. The writer, who
styles himself Gax, evidently has ability in that
style of writing, and should cultivate it by prac-
tise, as there are few who possess it in any great
degree. Gax may win name and fame, if he
will persevere. We are glad to see the "Univer-
sity of Deseret" written up in so able a manner,
and hope to see more on the same subject. The
University of Deseret has a history which should
be recorded. The struggles made by this people
to plant educational institutions in the early days
of Utah, are not recognized as they should be by
the men and women of to-day.
	"FUGITIVE POEMS."—This is the title of a
book recently published. The author, Mrs. M.
J. Tanner, is favorably known among the Saints
as a writer of both prose and verse. Her intro_
ductory  remarks, in presenting the book to the
public, are pleasing and impressive. We quote
the following from the preface:
	"Poetry is the clothing of our thoughts and
fancies, not the revelation of our experience. 
That the wildest and most erratic ideas find vent
through its channels has been proven by those
who have, long ago, been acknowledged as pos-
sessing the highest genius. I lay no claim to
erudition or elegance, but if my humble efforts
should touch a pathetic feeling in the hearts of
my readers, or gain an appreciation, I shall feel
that my labors are well rewarded."


