IN MEMORIAM. 

	Sister Louisa Barnes Pratt was born in War-
wick, Franklin Co. Mass.,10th,of November 1802;
she was the 5th, daughter of Willard and Polly
Stevens Barnes. She says in her journal "My
grandfather Abraham Barnes, was a man dis-
tingushed for his piety and wisdom, being hard
of hearing he was asked if he did not regret his
deafness? O! no, he replied it is a less affliction
than the nonsense which forever assails the ear.
My grandmother Polly Stevens was reputed
amiable and affectionate very fond of children
and especially to those of her own kindred."
Both her grandparents were Unitarians and lived
to the best light they had. Her father and
mother were members of the Unitarian Church
till their removal to Lower Canada (or Canada
East) in 1810 where they joined the Episcopal,
or Church of England, in which she was con-
firmed and remained a member through the
days of her youth till after she was married and
moved to New York when she joined the Pres-
byterians.
	She was married to Addison Pratt of Win-
cherter, New Hamshire, April 3d 1831, by whom
she had four daughters, all still living. She
lived to see the fourth generarion; she had seven-
teen living grandchildren and six have died, has
one great-grandchild living, which was present
and formed a part of her enjoyment on her 77th,
anniversary. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the
waters of Lake Erie town of Ripley Chataque
Co., New York in the month of June, 1838, by
her brother in-law Elder Jonathan Crosby Nov.
35, 1838, they left Ripley New York, for Far
West,Caldwell Co. Mo. For the first five hund-
red miles mud was not seen upon the wagon
wheels, the weather was so intensely cold, then
came a January thaw which rendered the roads
almost impassable. On arriving in Indiana they
heard of the expulsion of the Saints from Far
West, and the Saints who were on their way
were counseled to remain where they were till
further orders; so they bought a farm in Clay
county and tarried there till the year 1841, when
they removed to Nauvoo arriving there at the
October Conference of that year.
	Houses were few and hard to be obtained but
it mattered not to her she was in the city of the 
Saints and in sight of the Temple.
	June 1st, 1843 her husband with three other
Elders Brother Noah Rogers, B. F. Grouard and
Knowlton Hanks, were called to go on a three
years mission to the South Sea Islands, the first
Elders of our Church sent to preach in a foreign
language; he was absent from his family five
years and four months, meeting them in Salt
Lake in Sept. 1848. When news came that they
must leave Nauvoo her heart failed her, she
thought she could not undertake the journey

[Column 2]

without her husband and with four children all
girls, but she rallied her drooping courage pro-
cured an ox team engaged a driver, and in May
1846, crossed the Mississippi and followed on
with the rest. Camped at Winter Quarters the
following Winter where she with her family ex-
perienced much sickness,privation and hardships
but no death. The summer, of '47 they spent  in
that place most of the time in sod-caves and dug
outs.
	In May 1848 she left Winter Quarters with her
family in Prest. Brigham Young's company for
Salt Lake arrived there in Sept. Two weeks
after her arrival Mr. Pratt came in, having
come the western route from the Islands, by way
of Cal., with the battalion boys, stayed with his
family one year,in the fall of '49 went with Capt.
Hunt the Southern route acompanied by two
others Elders for the Islands. The family follow-
ing in the Spring. May 8th, 1850 Sister Pratt
with her four daughters, Bro. J. Crosby and
family and several other Elders started with ox
teams for Sacramento across the Rocky Moun-
tains on their way to join Bro. Pratt in the
Islands. On the 15 Sept. 1850 from San Fran-
cisco embarked on board the brig Jane A. Her-
sey, Capt. Salmon for the Island of Tubuai,
landed there Oct. 21st. and found the husband
and the father detained a prisoner on Tahiti,
as the French Governor did not want any but the
Catholic religion promulgated under the Protec-
torate, the family were full of sorrow when they
found he was not there, but they went to work
with a will to learn the language and by the time
he arrived on Tubuai,which was Jan. 19th, 1851,
they were able to answer every quesion he
could ask them in Tahitian. Sister Pratt never
allowed the girls to give up their studies' every
morning  they repaired to the "fare bure rea" as
the natives called for meeting house pursued
their English studies in the forenoon and studied
Tahitian in the afternoon and taught the natives
to knit and sew or any thing they wished. Sis-
ter Pratt was much beloved by the native sisters
who had great faith in her anointing with con-
secrated oil their children and themselves when
ever they were sick.
	The French government laid so many restric-
tions on them they could not tarry their 
appointed time on the 6th, April 1852 they left
Tubuai and went to Tahiti where the brethren
could get work to obtain money to come home
with. The 14th of May embarked on board the
barque Callao, Capt. Sergeant, in company with
Brother Grouard and family for San Francisco.
Sister Pratt and family arrived on the 15th of
July 1852, glad to set foot on her native shore
once more; staid there till Dec., following em-
barked on the brig Fremont, Capt. Erskine for
San Pedro on their way to San Bernardino.
At the beach met Brother Wm. Fotheringham
and numerous other Elders destined to different
parts of the globe to preach the Gospel. Arrived
in San Ber. on Christmas day and found many
kind friends to welcome them back among them
	Dec. 1857, she with her youngest daughter,
the rest being married, left San Bernardino, Cal.
with the rest of the Saints in that branch to join
the Church in the valleys of the mountain. Her
husband leaving at the same time to go to Upper
California where their second child was living.
After many troubles and trials severe,she arrived
in Cedar city, Iron county Utah: staid through
the summer in that place; in the fall of 1858,
removed to Beaver, Utah, where she resided till
the day of her death. In May 1871 she made a
visit to Cunada East to the home of her child-
hood to see her brothers and sisters who were
living at that time.
	Sister Pratt's faculties remained unimpaired
to the last; she tended her own garden with
what help she could get from friends, had almost

[Column 3]

numberless correspondents, and was in the habit
of writing verses for every body around her on
every occasion. She was the life of every circle
where she was met; and had ever a consoling
word for the afflicted: Her faith in the Gospel
was unshaken, her trust in God unbounded.
She was first counselor to Mother Nyman in
the first organization of Relief Society in Beaver,
and Secretary of the same till her departure for
Canada. On the evening of Saturday Sept. 4th,
1880, she was taken with something like con-
gestive chill which settled on her lungs in the
form of pneumonia; two only of her daughters
were where they could be near her, in her last
illness they did everything weich love and
faith could suggest; but all to no avail. The
pain  in her lungs forbade her any rest for three
days; she plead earnestly for something to give
her rest, cold water cold water, was all the nour-
ishment she craved. On the morning of the 8th,
Sept. at a quarter to nine after being adminis-
tered to by the Elders she sweetly fell asleep in
Jesus.
	Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore,
	Thoughts of her virtues increase more and more;
	T'will be long e'er the sting of her absence is o'er.
	God grant we may meet her on Heaven's bright shore,
	Where sorrow and parting shall grieve us no more.
