ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	There are times in the history of individuals
when the life seems full of wonderful events
crowded into close proximity; when there is a
realizing sense of completeness, which is like a
rapturous burst of thrilling melody, a psalm of
praise and rejoicing, as it were, which is often
followed by a soul-felt requiem, sad in compari-
son, yet as grand and lofty, as eloquent and full
of meaning, as significant in greatness, as the
loudest anthem of gladness.
	Our readers who are acquainted with the
history of Nauvoo, know how many important
events transpired there during those few short
years; and in many of them the lady of whom
we write bore a conspicuous part. It was dur-
ing this period that she may be said to have
been brought forward as a leader among wo-
men. It was her destiny.
	The Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo
by the Prophet Joseph, and women were ap-
pointed, or called and set apart, to preside, to
keep records, to lay hands on the sick, and to
perform other deeds of charity, love and mercy,
that pertain to the true mission of woman,
which had not before been defined in the ca-
pacity of an organization, now made complete
in itself and self-governing, yet reaching out
kindly to all its members an opportunity to ob-
tain knowledge and intelligence, blessings and
keys pertaining to woman and her laboss. In
this first organization, Sister Eliza was chosen
Secretary, which brought her prominently for-
ward as one of the founders of the institution,
and helped to prepare her as an organizer; or-
ganization is one of the strong features of her
character; her executive ability combined with
this happy faculty, gives great strength to this
department of her work, and she has had much
to do in this capacity. When one calls to mind
the fact that there are three hundred branches
of the Relief Society, almost as many Young
Ladies' Associations, and hundreds of Primary
Associations for the children, now in working
order, and that she has done a large proportion
of the organizing, one cannot but acknowledge
that she must have possessed extraordinary
power and ability in this direction. Through
these institutions the Lord has greatly blessed
woman, new light has dawned upon her mind,
latent thoughts have been aroused, and higher
aspirations awakened, that have given fuller
expression and deeper meaning to her lifework.
	For something more than two years after the

[Column 2]

organization of the Relief Society, the life of
this remarkable woman was exceedingly rich
in the fulness of friendship and love: she was
enjoying the companionship of those who were
dearer to her than aught else on earth—the
Prophet of God, her loyal husband; her high-
est and holiest ambition for this life was thus
satisfied in the restfulness of a union so sacred
that it seemed the perfection of earthly happi-
ness.
	But  anon, the scene was changed. Many
schemes were laid and plans formed to bring
trouble upon the Saints. Rulers and governors
sought to adopt measures and enforce laws to
oppress the people, who had already suffered so
much at the hands of their enemies. The au-
thorities of the State were interceded with in be-
half of justice for the oppressed. It was perfectly
proper, in the extremity to which the Saints
were driven, that women should entreat justice
from those in power, whose duty it was to pro-
tect law-abiding citizens. Sister Eliza was a
fit messenger to go upon such an errand. The
circumstance has never before been published.
	"In the latter part of July,1842,Mrs. Smith,
President of the Relief Society proposed a pe-
tition to Governor Carlin, asking his protection
of Joseph Smith, which was received with en-
thusiasm by unanimous vote. Sister Eliza, as
Secretary wrote the petition, which was signed
by several hundred ladies, and in company of
President Emma and Mrs. Warren Smith, vis-
ited the Governor at his residence in Quincy,
Adams, Co., Ill., where they were most cor-
dially received and courteously treated by the
Governor and family. Pres. Mrs. Smith an-
nounced to His Excellency the purport of the
visit, and her Secretary presented the Petition,
to which he responded with the kindest ex-
pression, and gave assurances of his protection
of the prophet, saying emphatically: "I believe
Mr. Smith is innocent." But alas! how verita-
bly did those petitioners prove the truthfulness
of the following saying of Josephus: "A man's
words may be either true or false, according to
the import of them, but by his actions do we
know the real intent."
	Soon  after their return home, they learned
that at the very time of their visit, and while
expressing sentiments of friendship, and prof-
fering gubernatorial protection to the prophet,
the Governor, in connection with Missouri offi-
cials, was plotting his destruction.
	The above is one of the many instances of
perfidy and double dealing from those holding
the reins of government, who should have been
protectors of the innocent. The history and
record of the events thot occurred at that time
substantiate the facts to which we refer. The
incident we have here related is one of the tes-
timonies which will stand against that Gover-
nor at the last day, for the persecution steadily
increased." Wicked men, the enemies of the
Latter-day work, would not let the prophet
rest. They laid snares in his way, they sought
to take away his life, and in an evil hour they
succeeded. Oh, the horror, the anguish of that
terrible tragedy can never, never be told in
words. The Saints all mourned the prophet
slain, but alas! for those to whom his plighted
vows were pledged: none know, but those who
suffered, what agony rent their souls! What
of Eliza—this gifted, noble woman, who had
given to this great man, this loyal servant of
the Most High, her heart's best affections; who
had thought no sacrifice too great to assist him
in establishing again on the earth the new and


everlasting  covenant  of  marriage  through the
holy order of the Melchizedec  Priesthood?
	When the news of his massacre first reached
her, she  could  not  believe  it;  and  it was well
that  she  did not,  or  she might have sunk  un-
der  the  terrible blow. But gradually she came
to understand and realize that he was gone, and
mourned  for  him, not  only as  the leader of a
great people, but  as  the  true, faithful and ten-
der wife mourns, and she poured forth her soul
in  characteristic  verse;  the  poetry  of  her wo-
man  nature  was  stirred  to  her  heart's  inner
fountains, by the  cruel martyrdom. Yet  God
was in all her thoughts.  He was her refuge in
this  hour  of heavy trial, which  she was  com-
pelled to bear in silence and alone. What had
the world  to  do with  her  wounds, or her dis-
tress?  Nothing!  It was a union of hearts and
lives  which  the  world  did  not  recognize, but
God, Who  knoweth  the  secrets  of  all  hearts,
took  her  into  His  precious  care.  His  love
soothed  her, and  she  looked  forward with the
eye of  faith, and  a  calmness  and  trustfulness
which  passeth  understanding, to  the  re-union
beyond,when she would meet her beloved again,
and  partake  of  the  fulness  of  the  exaltation
which  she  knew  would  be  obtained   through
obedience  to  that  higher  law which  God  had
revealed, through  him who  had  laid down his
life in trying to establish it.
	She  dedicated  herself  anew to the work  she
had so heroically begun. She had received the 
baptism of suffering, and arisen  from the terri-
ble ordeal with  a  determination  to take up all
the burdens of life and bear them through good
or  ill  report,  relying  upon  the  arm  that   is
mighty to save.
	The  Temple, which  had  been  in  process of
erection at the time of the death of the prophet,
was  at  length  finished; and woman was  called
upon  to  take her part in administering therein,
officiating in the character of  priestess. Sister
Eliza then began another  era  in  her  peculiar
life;  and  she  ministered in that Temple in the 
holy rites that pertain to the house of the Lord
as priestess and Mother in Israel to hundreds of
her sex.
	To be continued.


