HONOLULU, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
		Aug. 1, 1880.
	EDITOR EXPONENT:—If your valuable pa-
per can afford space for a brief communication
from a country so remote from Zion as this is,
I will offer a few items on matters connected
with our mission on these Islands.
	On the first day of June, 1879, I started from
my home in Provo in company with my hus-
band, to fill a mission among the Hawaiians.
We arrived in the beautirul tropical town of
Honolulu, the metropolis of the Islands, after
an absence of five years, and was welcomed by
the native brethren and sisters with such mani-
festations as they in their simplicity are able to
make. 
	At the following October Conference, held
at Laie, I was chosen to take the Superinten-
dency of all the Relief Societies, organized in
our Church, on these Islands. Sisters Sarah
Dean, Nellie Alexander and Gundy Anderson,
and two faithful native sisters, wore chosen to
assist in that capacity. Accordingly, I took a
trip to the Island of Kawai, which lies about
one hundred miles N. W., accompanied by the
two native sisters, Kaahanui and Kealohanui,
the former being able to turn the scales at 275
pounds; the foreign sisters not being able to
accompany me, in consequence of having small
children to care for. We left Honolulu at 5:30
o'clock P. M. of July 19, Mr. Cluff having ac-
companied me to Honolulu, and placed me
safely on board the little steamer James McKee.
My admiration of the beautiful scenery back

[Column 2]

of the town of Honolulu, as we steamed out
through the channel, was suddenly changed
when fairly outside of the reef, where we got
the full effects of the trade winds that whistled
over the mountains. I had always thought
that my former sea voyages were all I could
possibly endure and live, but the playful way
in which the little steamer glided from wave
to wave was worse to me, seemingly, than death,
and I found that I really had not known what 
sea-sickness was.
	We landed at Nawiliwili Kawai on the fol-
lowing morning almost unable to move when
upon the land; fortunately for me the voyage
was a short one. I met my nephew, Elder B.
Clnff, Jun., who was making a tour of this
island; he procured a buggy and took me to
the residence of Bro. Kawe (the cry), President
of the Hanumaula branch, who extended to us
all the courtesy and kindness possible for a na-
tive to bestow, and their hospitable character-
istic, as a people, is noted by strangers. Not
only were the members of our Church kind
and obliging, but the neighbors who made no
profession of faith, especially Mr. Kamanu
(the bird) and his gracious wife, Kahoopii (to
sue at law). During our stay at this place,
Mrs. Kahoopii never failed to supply us, regu-
larly at meal time, with well prepared refresh-
ments served up on a salver, their circumstan-
ces pecuniarily being above the average native
people. 
	On our way from Nawiliwili to Koloa we
visited a plantation where they manufacture
starch from the root of the Manioc. The root
of this plant has a close resemblance to the
Yam, and requires at least eighteen months
growth before use; but it may continue grow-
ing for years without injury. The average
yield per acre is about three tons, and the ex-
pense of manufacturing is very light, compared
to the cost of the manufacturing of sugar.
	The town of Koloa, especially the lower part
of it, is built upon a lava flow of very ancient
formation, and when the Islands swarmed with
a pure Hawaiian population, compelling the
cultivation of every available spot of ground,
the lava rock was gathered in heaps, giving
space for a hill of sweet potatoes, squash, or
onions, and thus piles of rock remain as monu-
ments of the past.
	Having made arrangements to organize a
Relief Society at Koloa on the 26th of July,
we made our way over rolling hills and through
green pastures, where the herds of cattle were
grazing leisurely upon the hills and plains,
when we suddenly came upon the brink of
what appeared a deep chasm, defying any fur-
ther advance; but we were soon informed that
the town of Hanapepe lay almost beneath us. 
Standing upon the brink we looked down sev-
eral hundred feet below, upon the town and
beautiful, wavy fields of rice and Kalo; this
deep, narrow valley is walled in with precipices
of red rock, very much like that of Echo
Canon in Utah. Hanapepe signifies broken,
bruised, crushed—and I am certain the name
is very applicable. Our stay at this place was
very brief, but pleasant. I found the water
there surpassed in coolness any that I have
tasted on the Islands.
	We returned to Koloa, and on the 26th, ac-
cording to previous appointment, we organized
a Relief Society, uniting the sisters of Koloa,
Hanapepe and Kemoa in one Society for the
present, which numbers seventy-four officers
and members.
	There may be a curiosity in the minds of
some of the readers of the EXPONENT to know
how a Society of this kind operates among the
sisters of our Church here. Our organizations
are in accordance with those at home,but there
are many more difficulties attending a Society
of this kind here than at home. The peculiari-
ties, customs, traditions, habits and supersti-
tions of this people are such that it requires

[Column 3]

more instruction and a wonderful supply of
patience to keep them from various vagaries;
more especially is this the case during the ab-
sence of our Elders, when they fly off, as it
were, upon superstitious ideas, and not unfre-
quently get into a spirit of jangling. The
Society at Laie, which is always under the
immediate care of the Elders, has been so
trained that they move along with less difficulty
than that which attends organizations among
those of less experience; but the improvements
made in the Society at Laie are sufficient to
give us hope for others: I am satisfied that
our sisters from home, when they acquire a
knowledge of the language, can do much good
in uniting our Hawaiian sisters. One difficulty
which exists with members of Relief Societies
at home is never felt by our Hawaiian sisters;
I refer to a diffidence in speaking in public.
Here the difficulty comes in when you want
them to stop, for they never tire of talking.
	Leaving Koloa we went to Wailua, passing
Nawiliwili to the right. Here we enjoyed the
beautiful scenery, and also the boating on the
river, visiting the falls, and listening to the
legends and myths connected with the place,
as recited by our native friends. Here we
met Sister Nahinu, who is a cousin of the
present Queen and a chiefess. She is a very
pleasant lady, and is very much interested in
the progress of Zion. She and her husband,
also a member of the Church, entertain strong
hopes of going to Utah, and now await the
consent of the King. 
	We returned home after an absence of two
weeks, pretty nearly prostrate with the extra
sea-sickness.
	Please extend my kind regards to Sisters
E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Ma Smcot. Praying for your suc-
cess in your editorial capacity, I remain,
