[Vol16 | August 1929 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Let Martha Rest Sundays Ethel C. Butt]
Let Martha Rest Sundays By Ethel C. Butt When the icicles are hanging from the eaves and the family come shivering in with red noses and cold-whipped appetites, is the time for steaming hot roasts, puddings, and spicy foods.

But in August let us have something cold or quickly cooked for Sunday dinner; something with plenty of fruits and vegetables.

What a relief it is to mother to feel free to don her Sunday best, and march to Sunday School with the children, knowing that in record time she can place a satisfying meal before her family.

Glance over the menus given below.

Notice that they give a variety of food, yet with the exception of the first dinner, most of the food may be prepared on Saturday.

Dinner No. I Broiled chicken New potatoes in parsley and butter Baby beets Creamed peas Raspberries and cream Wafers Dinner No. IT Veal loaf with peas Currant jelly Creamed new potatoes String bean salad Orange sherbet Oatmeal cookies Dinner No. III Cold sliced lamb Chili sauce Corn on the cob Sliced tomato salad with mayonnaise Apricot cream Sponge cake Dinner No. IV Salmon in mould Broiled tomatoes Creamed carrots Lettuce and cucumber salad Peach shortcake For Dinner No. I, the chicken should be cleaned on Saturday and placed on ice.

Cook the beets and cover with a syrup made by adding 1 tablespoon sugar and 2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice to 1 cup of water.

The peas may be shelled, washed, dried, and put in a cold place, though many prefer to shell them the day they are used.

Sunday morning, peel the potatoes and let them stand in cold water.

Wash and mince the parsley, and cover with cold, wet  cloth.

Look over and wash raspberries.

In forty minutes after you return from Sunday School, your family can be eating dinner; for all that remains to be done is to broil the chicken for 20 or 30 minutes, (depending on its age), to cook the potatoes, and make white sauce to combine with the cooked peas.

Dinner No. IT can be almost all prepared on Saturday.

Make the salad dressing and the veal loaf.

Cook the string beans.
