LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) PREVIEW OF SOCIAL SERVICE LESSONS FOR 1929-30 Social Service Lessons for 1929-30 will be as follows: The first three lessons, for October, November, and December, will be a continuation of the Child Study Course, with 'The Child: His Nature and His Needs" as the text; the subject of the six lessons that follow, covering the months from January to June inclusive, will be "The Field of Social Work.' No text will be required for these lessons, but references for outside reading will be given.

Lesson 16 CHANGING OBJECTIVES IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS (Based on Part 3 of "The Child: His Nature and His Needs') Our system of compulsory education was finally established after a long discussion.

The conclusion was that every person who could read, write, and calculate according to the needs of daily life, and who had learned something about religion, the founding of our government, and the principles of freedom upon which it is maintained, would make a better citizen than one who could not read or write.

Those who could not read or write would have to depend upon others for information regarding the nature of our government and what it demands of every citizen in order that it may continue strong, stable, and prosperous.

A question frequently arises regarding the mounting expense of our educational system.

Education is more expensive than any other public enterprise.

But, quoting from the author of.

This chapter, M. V. O'Shea: "Do you know that the nation's tobacco bill is greater each year than its bill for elementary, high school, collegiate, and normal school education all combined?

Do you know there is as much spent for candy and chewing gum as for all our educational work?

And that much more is expended for automobiles and gasoline for joy riding, than is expended for school buildings, equipment, text books, teachers, health officers in schools, play grounds, and all other items of school work combined?

Do you know that base ball and the threatre cost as much as our total educational bill?" Our communities need men and women trained in surgery, medicine, psychiatry, education, nursing, and all professions.

If the communities assist in training those who live by charging a price for these services, the community is better off than without such service.

Thus the interest of the individual and that of the community are reciprocal, and, for the most part, mutually dependent.

For the people who will not work at these highly trained professions, education lays the foundation for an understanding of the relationships that exist among all classes of people as well as for a wider and richer appreciation of nature, of literature, and of beauty available for enjoyment.

An artisan who appreciates the value of his life to mankind, who appreciates the beauty and significance of his surroundings, and who evaluates his conduct in terms of the real happiness it brings him and others, is just as truly an educated man as is a doctor or lawyer.

The author suggests there is more pain and unhappiness caused by failure to adapt to one another because of temperamental, moral, or aesthetic deficiencies than there is for lack of food, clothing, and shelter.

He further says: "The most stable and prosperous nation is the one in which the people are the best organized and best trained in group adjustment and co-operation, rather than the one that is most prolific in material resources." The guiding aim in teaching the child to read and write should be that he may participate in what his ancestors have achieved and what his associates are now achieving, and that he may communicate his exeriences to others.

A pupil should study history in order to learn the course over which the race has come, and to understand the conditions essential to the welfare of present society.

He should study geography in order that he may be a citizen of the world and not simply of the street or town in which he happens to live at the moment.

He should learn that human society today is bound together very closely, and that while people may be separated in space they should be very close together in spirit?that we are all one body and the conduct of one individual has its influence upon all his fellows.

In the end, co-operation and altruism yield happiness; antipathy and selfishness are certain to yield pain and discontent.

Questions 1. How is a community as a whole benefitted by free compulsory education? 2. Can we afford to expand our free school system downward to include nurseries and kindergartens?

To include part time and adult classes?

If so, how shall we pay the bill? 3. Which of the physical desires may be lessened by intellectual concentration and satisfaction?

Of the following: joyriding, cigarettes, over-use of cosmetics and candy, which could be modified by reading, music, urt, and physical play, if the latter were adequately and properly taught?  4. What might be attained economically, physically, and intellectually, if the use of tobacco could be eliminated? 5. What objectives does the average parent have in mind when he sends his children through school? 6. In selecting courses of study for his child, along what lines does the parent usually reason? 7. Accepting the statement, "Man is that he may have joy," what should be the objectives in education? 8. Is vocational work in schools encouraged, or hindered by the attitude of and remarks by parents regarding their own work?

Should a parent so educate a child that it will not have to work as its parents have done? 9. Criticise the following quotation: "Children should be allowed to live their lives straight out.

They should not hesitate to expose their ignorance.

When children are stimulated to study for fear of failure to please the teacher or parent, to get a grade or to be promoted, a subtle influence is at work producing double motives.

This not only interferes with the coordination of the nervous system, resulting in ill-health, but also prevents clean thinking; and most of all it interferes with that basic sincerity which is the fundamental condition of a fine moral life." "Gitar: A Social Interpretation of Education, page 150-1. 10. (a) Do the children of your community have opportunity for training in some vocation that will enable them to take care of themselves economically and physically? (b) Is their environment sufficiently aesthetic, as to what they see and hear, to make them happy? (c) Are they being trained to improve their own surroundings in this respect? (d) Are they learning to be of service in society? (e) Are they being trained to live in peace and harmony with their associates? (f) Cite actual things taught in school that contribute to each of the above aims.

There are still available about seventy-five copies of The Child: His Nature and His Needs, which will be used as a text for the Social Service lessons until the end of this year.

Orders for this book should be addressed to the General Secretary's Office, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.

The price is $1.25, postpaid.

ANNOUNCEMENT The Fall Quarter at Brigham Young University Will Begin SEPTEMBER SIXTEENTH Foundation Courses leading to all the professions are offered by a Strong Faculty in Five Colleges?

College of Arts and Sciences College of Education College of Fine Arts Member of the Association of American Universities If you haven't received your 1929-30 catalogue you may obtain one by addressing: Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH Clean Foods No firm should be permitted to serve foods to the Public who fails to adhere to a rigid selling.

To be able to secure meats and groceries kept and sold under strict sanitary conditions, is surely a great privilege.

Every O. P. Skaggs System patron enjoys this rare protection. 0. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine College of Applied Science At Less thia hialt College of Commerce policy of sanitation in equipment, display, handling and This Happened in Rigby, Idaho Our salesman was in a store in Rigby, Idaho, and overheard the following conversation: "I want a can of Pork and Beans." "BLUE PINE?" "Yes, I want SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans." "Lady, you really like BLUE PINE Pork and Beans?" "The last can we bought of SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans were the best Pork and Beans we have ever eaten." Scowcroit s BLUE PINE PORK % BEANS are made from those large, Great Northern beans, cooked through and flavored with a liberal piece of fresh pork and covered with a delicious tomato sauce that we make from our own recipe, which has not been duplicated by any other packer of Pork and Beans.

Another part of kitchen drudgery can now be done away with.

Buy Blue Pine Pork and Beans and let the can opener reveal a wholesome, satisfying meal.

Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?

Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.  , Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Quality Training for Utah Students Fully qualified high school graduates have never been refused admission to the State's highest institution of learning? nor does the University of Utah anticipate changing this situation.

However, the entrance requirements have been kept at a high standard, as has the University work, so that all students know that their credits and degrees from this institution are unquestioned anywhere in the University world.

Students continue to come to The University of Utah in increased numbers, until the enrollment surpasses that of all other colleges in the State, but all qualified students will be welcomed and will receive the best the State has to offer in educational work.

A broad curriculum presented by a faculty of excellent training amid truly educational surroundings is the offering to those students of the State who are interested in obtaining a University training.

Registration Dates Freshmen must register September 26, and attend special instructional classes September 27 and 28. Former students and transfer students from other universities and colleges must register September 30. Regular class work starts October 1. Freshmen should send their high school credits before September 1. School of Arts and Sciences School of Medicine School of Education School of Law School of Mines and School of Business Engineering Extension Division For catalog or other information, address, The President, UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH penn: Beneficial Insurance--- and Why?

NOT ONLY DO YOU RECEIVE ALL THE GUARANTEES WRITTEN IN OUR POLICIES, BUT IN ADDITION YOU SHARE IN THE PROFITS OF THE COMPANY: This Participating Insurance SOLD AT OUR OLD NON-PARTICIPATING RATES Insuring the Best there is in Life Insurance And Issued By The Big Home Compal Is your life Insurance Beneficial?

Beneficial Life Insurance Co.

Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society  HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.