LESSON II Work and Business INTRODUCTION TO TEACHERS' TOPICS FOR 1929-30 "The grand aim of man's creation is the development of a grand character, and a grand character is by its very nature the product of a probationary discipline." In this the chief aim of our existence, this wonderful responsibility of becoming co-workers with God, is placed upon the parents.

In the work of building noble character, "Their power lies in the words they use, the examples they set, and the acts they approve." ''They teach the precepts that tend to perpetuate their philosophy of life.

They either emphasize these precepts or nullify them by example.'?From "Character Education in the Denver Public Schools,' Monograph No. 14. Character cannot be "talked into" boys and girls.

Thoughtful and persistent means must be used from earliest childhood.

The creation of favorable conditions, watch care, guidance, and example build day by day the stable qualities that enable the child to pass normally through the adolescent period into strong, responsible manhood and womanhood.

"The little one begins to learn after it is born, and all that it knows greatly depends upon its environment, the influences under which it is brought up, the kindness with which it is treated, the noble example shown it, the hallowed influence of father and mother over its infant mind.

The child will be largely what its environment and its parents make it."?President Joseph F. Smith.

Our aim this year will be to bring to the attention of the mothers those fundamental traits of character that secure real and lasting happiness.

In the inculcation of these traits we are now incurring the risk of failure.

We hope to approach our task with such prayerful hearts, such faith and love, as will secure the blessings of heaven in the solution of our problems.

The topics to be considered are: Upholding Church Standards, Obedience, Reverence, Courage, Patriotism, Cheerfulness, Gratitude, Courtesy, Cooperation of Parents.

TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in October) UPHOLDING CHURCH: STANDARDS I. Church standards are established on the rock of revelation: 1. Gospel truths are not dependent on time and place?they are always true. 452 IT.  . If the most famous doctors should say there is no harm in tobacco, we should still have the unfailing word of the Lord to the contrary.

What makes adherence to Church standards difficult? 1. Community standards are no longer Church standards, 2. Little by little there is danger of slipping away from the truth. 3. If Church standards are hard for us to maintain, they are still more difficult for our children.

We, having known pioneer parents, have been thrilled by their devotion to the gospel; whereas our children are living in an age of emphasis on man's material achievements.

III.

There is in the gospel a power that gives us the strength to IV.

Do right.

How shall we utilize this power for our children? 1. We must lead children to realize the importance of religion in their lives. 2. We must give instruction?must teach from infancy a love of the gospel and respect for its laws.

Example: a. Showing our love for the gospel.

B. Not over-emphasizing material things but imparting a proper sense of values.

C. While cultivating tolerance towards others, we must not allow ourselves to weaken in our adherence to Church standards.

How can we make the standards of the Church our standards? 1. Since we have the definite word of the Lord on these things there can be no excuse for any lowering of standards to meet emergencies. 2. We must keep holy the Sabbath day. 3. Observe the Word of Wisdom. 4, Maintain chastity as the pearl of life.

VI.

When is the time to act? 1. We must begin early and continue late entering into their lives. 2. We must really enter into the hopes, ideals, lives, of our children. 3. We must lead and permit them to enter into ours.