VOL. 7.          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1878.  No. 4.


For the EXPONENT.
MIDSUMMER.
Tis midsummer time, and the new-mown hay,
Lies fresh in the meadows over the way,
The breath of the cowslips and clover bloom,
With the summer-hay yield a sweet perfume;
And it wafts us back to the by-gone days,
And memory's music around us plays;
And we e'en forget, we are growing old,
As the past with its joyous scenes unfold.

There's the girls and the boys as they us'd to be
Chatting and sporting in their youthful glee,
The meadows resound with the merry shout,
Of their voices, so clearly ringing out
In laughter, and song as they rake the hay,
In the sunshine bright, on a July day;
And the broad fields are of their beauty shorn,
And off to the barns the hay-loads are borne.

How many summers, are over and gone,
How many dear ones, and bright hopes have flown;
How oft the flowers have blossom'd and died,
Since in midsummer time a happy bride
Left her home and friends, and was borne away,
Just when the meadows were teeming with hay;
The roses and daisies their bloom had shed,
But Juniper berries were ripe and red.

And the humming-bird's nest swung in the breeze,
From the verdant boughs of the Juniper trees:
And the happy lovers gazed on the nest
And thought of the home they'd make in the West;
As perfect and charming the home-nest should be
As the tiny thing swinging there from the tree.
Alas! for the bird, the nest, and the mate,
Left alone, to suffer a cruel fate.

And when midsummer ev'ry year returns,
The bird for its mate instinctively yearns;
But the Juniper tree, and the open door,
Are standing there now, as they did of yore,
And the sunshine floods in amber and gold,
The forests and meadows, just as of old,
But we look in vain for a simple token
Of the lovers vows, that there were spoken.
EMILE.
S. L. City, July 13, 1878.    E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

ADDRESS TO Y. L. M. I. A.

	We are now called a Mutual Improve-
ment Association; this name should be car-
ried out in our daily walk and conversation,
and we should show by our works what
we profess to be. Let us spend our time
in usefulness, in something that will refine
and elevate, so that we may be bright and
shining lights in the church and kingdom
of God, and that our names may be held in
honorable remembrance for generations to
come. Let us take care of the minutes and
the hours will take care of themselves; but
how many minutes we let pass by unim-
proved, not thinking that we will some day
have to give an account of every minute
that we lose. We are placed here on earth
to work for an eternal inheritance and then
return to God from whence we came and
dwell with Him throughout endless eterni-
ties. My young sisters is not this enough
to spur us up to our duties and inspire us to
improve the talents God has given us?
Can we assist to build up Zion by sitting
down and folding our hands? No, we must
arouse ourselves and put on the "armor of
faith" for without it we can do nothing; we
can do more towards rolling on this work
than we realize, we can assist in building
Temples to the Most High, we can also use
our influence for good at all times and sus-
tain those who are placed over us with our
faith and prayers; we can uphold every

[Column 2]

principle of our religion and not allow our-
selves to speak lightly of anything that God
has revealed, for in so doing we grieve the
Spirit of God and it will be withdrawn from
us, then we will be left to grope our way in
the dark; we can also assist in binding the
power of Satan by uniting ourselves togeth-
er, and overcoming all things that are not
pleasing in the sight of God. My young
sisters let us appreciate the privileges we
have, and thank God that our spirits have
been reserved to come forth in this day and
dispensation, when the gospel has been
brought in its fulness never more to be tak-
en from the earth; and that we have been
made recipients of the same. When we
look around and see our brothers and sisters
relatives and friends that have not been
favored of God as we have, it makes our
hearts ache, and wish that we could do
something to bring them to a knowledge
of the truth, but God's ways are not our
ways, and with him all things are possible.
How earnest, we should be in living our re-
ligion, and putting away everything that
will retard our progress in this great work.
Girls let our aim be noble and our thoughts
pure, and our thoughts be drawn out to
God at all times, that he will keep us from
dangers seen or unseen, and that we may
have strength to resist the Tempter's pow-
er, for it is strong if we are not guarded
against it; we cannot depend on our own
strength for it is frail, "let him that stand-
eth take heed lest he fall. This shows us
that we must put our dependence in God,
that we can do nothing without his aid and
assistance, but how often we forget this and
take the praise to ourselves. Let us re-
solve each day of our lives to live nearer to
the Lord, and if we fail try again and nev-
er weary in well-doing, that our lives may
be such, that we may be worthy of the
name Latter-day Saints.
	MISS JOSEPHINE MEYER.
11th Ward, S. L. City, June 17, 1877.


[For the EXPONENT.
WHO IS IT?

	One approached me with a smile upon
her lips, and with the air of a friend. She
opened her mouth, and her speech betrayed
her. Her tongue was like a barbed arrow,
dipped in venom. No one was safe, none
escaped. From the characters of the high-
est dignitaries of the land to the lowliest
member of society, each were alike black-
ened by her misrepresentations. She had
her admirers, who zealously repeated what-
ever dropped from her lips, although many
knew not the trouble they were making by
listening to her words. She appeared the
gayest of the gay, while mischief accom-
panied her, and trouble followed her foot-
steps. She appeared a friend, and proved
an enemy. If she was allowed to speak, or
found a listener, she turned, and to the
next one she met she told some fault that
she had discovered in her former hearer.
If one had a weakness, it was discerned
and brought to light; if she found nothing
to condemn, she readily invented some
dreadful story, calculated to produce harm.
She deems none friends, but all enemies.


She brings discord into cities, towns and
families; uproots the very foundation of
society, destroys confidence, and brings a
blight instead of a blessing.  Let us drive
her from our midst, for her touch is like
pitch, and wherever she comes she leaves
a mark.  We must put her down, for heav-
en itself would be no heaven with her in
our midst; she is unworthy of a place
amongst us.  How I despise, how I loathe
her!  how disgusting she seems to me!
Who is this dreadful creature, and what is
her name that we may avoid her?  Her
name is, Madame Scandal.
EMILY B. SPENCER.


NOTES AND NEWS.

MRS. FANNY Fairchild Bryant, wife of
the great poet, was born in 1797, and died
in 1868.  She was described by her hus-
band "An humble disciple of Christ, ex-
emplary in every relation of life, affection-
ate, sympathetic, and cincere, and ever oc-
cupied with the welfare of others."
MISS EMILY Platt, niece of Presid
Hayes, was recently married at the Whit[-]
House to Gen. Russell Hastings, formerly
Lieut. Col. of the President's old regiment.
The wedding was strictly private--the
bride and Mrs. Hayes being far too sensi-
ble to sanction the foolish display so much
in vogue in fashionable life on similar oc-
casions--EX.
 WE HAVE received several numbers now
of the "English woman's Review," pub-
lished in London.  It is in pamphlet form,
and contains fifty pages of solid reading
matter.  It is devoted to woman's advance
ment, and contains speeches of dist
guished people on suffrage, its influence
and tendencies, women occupying offices,
medical women, women as lawyers, school
superintendents and professors of various
kinds, their capabilities and needs.  It
gives one good ideas of progressive work
in Italy, France and all the larger kingdoms
and dominions in Europe.  Reviews of
noted books, etc.
 Who shall say that the age of the pro-
phets is over, when Barbanera, the Appen-
nine astrologer, foretold the deaths of Vic-
tor Emmanuel and the Pope, and when
the still more famous and ancient prophecy
about Constantinople is being fulfilled?
The latter dates from the middle of the
15th century, and runs thus:--
In twice two hundred years the Cross
The Crescent shall assail,
But if the Cook and Bull unite
The Bear shall not prevail.
But, lo! in twice ten years again,
Let Islam know and fear,
The Cross shall wax, the Crescent wane,
Grow pale and disappear.
The first half of the prophecy was, of
course, fulfilled in the Crimean War, when
the Cock (Gallus Gaul) united with John
Bull against the Russian Bear.  It was just
"twice ten years" after the peace of 1856
that the insurrection broke out in Herzego-
vina, which was the beginning of what
promises to be the end of Turkey in Eu-
rope.--Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

MT. PLEASANT, June 27, 1878.
	Annual Meeting and report of Relief So-
ciety, May 11, 1878.
Donations for the poor..............$197. 28
Disbursements to the poor......... 157. 30
To Manti Temple....................... 77. 22
Welsh Emigration...................... 20. 00
Stock in Co-op Store.................  17. 73
Stock in Co-op Tannery............   5. 00
Balance in Treasury.................. 39. 93
Wheat stored..............................261 bu.
	Our ciphers may not be quite as large as
some Societies can show, but if it comes to
the real point as it was said to the sisters
when the first Society was organized in
Nauvoo, comfort those that are sick, build
up the broken-hearted, &c., then I think
our Society can stand equal with any other
organization, and surely our President can.
	I do not think there is anything out of
the way in writing of our President; I hope
that I will not wound her noble feelings
by doing so; but we all know that she shows
a most worthy example to all that wish to
do right. It can truly be said of her, when
trials and troubles bend down a woman's
heart, her comfort is not far off, and cannot
fail to have its effect, when it comes from a
heart that has passed through some of the
severest trials that a woman can endure.
	There is not a person in our settlement
sick, or in need of comfort, but she will
visit them; there are none for years passed
that have drawn their last breath and been
laid away to rest, neither old nor young,
rich or poor, but her kind hand has admin-
istered the last services, as we all wish a
kind soul to do for us. And what comfort
that is to those who are left to mourn, as it
is our nature to do. None can tell, only
those who have passed through this trouble,
and by them it can never be forgotten. No
one can say of her that she ever refused
when called upon, and even when her health
would not permit. That is the only fault
(if it can be called so), that she thinks too
little of her own health, and is not careful
enough; but our prayer is that the Lord
will strengthen her, now especially, as her
health is poor and her strength over done,
that she may be spared to do good, and be
a comfort to us and her family. I might
say much about her instruction and teach-
ing in our meetings, but I only say it is
excellent and full of the good Spirit.
	I do not say it to praise her, that is not
what she is working for; I only say to all
who are co-workers with her to "go and do
likewise," that the Lord may bless and
strengthen them in their efforts to do good,
and all will be put down in the great treas-
ury book of the Lord, that will be opened
when we meet behind the veil; then will
come the reward of the righteous.
	R. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.

	HOYTSVILLE, June 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of Hoytsville would like
to represent ourselves in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. We were reorganized December
6th, 1877, by President W. W. Cluff, and
Bishop Alonzo Winters. The following
named sisters were sustained as officers:
	Parthenia A. Holt, President,
	Sarah Mills,		Counselors.
	Ann Mills,
	Mary E. Holt, Secretary,
	Elizabeth Crittenden, Treasurer.
	Since that time Sister Ann Mills has re-
signed her position, and Sister Edith Hob-

[Column 2]

son has been appointed to fill the vacancy.
We have enrolled as members,twenty-three
names; we meet together once in two
weeks, and our meetings are very well at-
tended, considering the scattered condition
of the sisters. We have under cultiva-
tion four acres of wheat, and have fifty-five
dollars and eighty-five cents in the tannery.
We are striving to become united in doing
all the good we can towards building up
Zion.
	Wishing your valuable paper prosperity,
&c.,
	MARY E. HOYT, Secretary.

	SPRING CITY, SANPETE CO,
		May, 19, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annnal Meeting May 2d,
and herewith send you our report:
Distributed to the sick and needy..$122. 22
Wheat stored..........................246 bu., 18 lb.
For the Temple...............................$ 95. 65
Cash on hand..................................   52. 90
Sunday articles...............................   11. 32
Share in Co-op Store....................   210. 00
	The health of the people in general is
quite good; and all the sisters show a lively
interest in the Society and the upbuilding
of the kingdom of God.
	We deeply sympathize with you and the
bereaved family of Counselor Wells, and
pray God to bless and comfort you all in
the loss of so amiable a daughter and sis-
ter, and hope the young girls who read the
representation of her character in the EX-
PONENT, will strive to follow the example
she has set before them, and assist as she
has done to build up the kingdom of God,
that when they are called to go they may
leave a like name.
	P. E. BENSON, Secretary.

	FRANKLIN, June 1st, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We give a brief report from our Young
Ladies' Association. We were organized
under the immediate direction of Sisters
Zina D. Young and E. Davis, Oct. 30, 1877.
The following officers were then unanimous-
ly elected:
	Mary A. Hawks, President,
	Clara Hatch,
	Sarah A. Smart,
	Sarah Thomas,		Counselors.
	Agnes Durrant,
	Mary J. Doney,
	Betsy Low,
	Sarah A. Smart, Secretary,
	Ruth Hatch, Assistant Secretary,
	Annie Hatch, Treasurer.
	Our meetings have been well attended
during the winter; the young sisters have
manifested a great desire to be benefitted
by attending the same. We are desirous
of laboring in the cause of truth, and we
know of no better source of developing
those talents which God has given us, than
by striving strictly to attend to those du-
ties which are enjoined upon us in these
institutions which have been framed for
our mutual benefit.
	We were highly favored with a visit
from Sisters Eliza R. Snow and E. Davis
on the 10th of May last. A meeting was
held in the afternoon for the Relief Society;
Sister E. R. Snow addressed the meeting
at considerable length, showing the sisters
their duties and privileges, and encourag-
ing them to faithfulness. In the evening
there was a meeting for the Y. L. M. I. A.,
and many others, old and young, assembled

[Column 3]

with them. We had an interesting time
listening to our honored elder sisters, E.
R. Snow and E. Davis, who gave us such
counsel and advice through the Spirit of
the Lord, that we need not go astray from
the truth. Owing to the sterility of the
climate we have not as yet raised any mul-
berry trees, therefore we have not turned
our attention to sericulture, but are en-
deavoring in our weak way to encourage
all home industries, and be co-workers in
doing all the good we can, in connection
with our sisters elsewhere. Wishing your
very valuable paper success, we remain, &c.,
	MISS MARY A. HAWKS, Pres't,
		MISS SARAH H. SMART, Sec.


CORRESPONDENCE.
							SALT RIVER, May 26, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Good health generally prevails in camp.
Our canal is nearly finished, and we hope
soon to get ourselves established on our
own property once more. We will then be
about five miles from the river, and about
twenty  miles north-east of the Pimo and
Maricopa villages on the Gila, the same at
which the "Battalion boys" spent New-
Year's Day, when they passed through this
country. The Indians have mostly desert-
ed the Gila, it having sank or dried up two
or three years since; this is frequently the
case with small streams in this country.
Upon being told while traveling, that we
should cross a certain river to-day, the first
question that presented itself would be is
there water in it? Ths Indians visit us
frequently, but are not such persistent beg-
gars as the Utes, although they do not re-
fuse anything offered. We hope to benefit
them by precept and example. We hold
Sabbath meetings under a large tree; the
brethren are taking measures to organize a
Sabbath School. We have a day school in
successful operation, taught by Miss Zulie
Pomeroy, with about twenty pupils, so you
see we do not mean to have Arizona too far
behind other Territories in the next school
reports. The Mexicans are mostly Catho-
lic, their graves are all ornamented with a
cross, sometimes rude and uncouth, but al-
ways in the form of a cross. They seem to
be satisfied with what they have and seek
nothing further.
	It is rumored that the Apaches have bro-
ken away from their reservation on the
Little Colorado, and are doing some mis-
chief to ranchemen and stock, however we
do not anticipate any trouble with them.
Some of the brethren have been here from
the settlement on the San Pedro, and re-
port things there in a prosperous condition.
	Our town site is selected: It is a beauti-
ful location for a town, there will be no
need of grading for street-car tracks it is so
level and smooth, not even rocks or gravel.
They are talking of calling it Montezuma,
but 'tis not decided.
	We all feel to acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in bringing us here. Wishing to
be remembered kindly to all inquiring
friends, I remain yours, etc.,
				FRANCELLE E. RONSON.


