VOL. 7.       SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOV. 1, 1878.       No. 11.


ONLY A PORTRAIT.

	'Tis only a portrait, and yet the sweet face
	Seems gifted with magical powers;
	How fondly I dream, as its features I trace,
	Of the past and its garden of flowers.

	As I gaze in those blue eyes, so loving and kind,
	That ever look smiling on me,
	The stream of reflection swift carries my mind
	To the shore of eternity's sea

	And the veil of long absence is rended in twain,
	Disclosing her being so fair,
	Whose image, on earth, we may search for in vain,
	Yet in heaven, be sure she is there.

	There were many more beautiful, fairer than she,
	But seek where you would, you'd ne'er find,
	A maiden of loveliness greater, to me,
	For hers was the beauty of mind.

	The dear, tender heart that would comfort and bless,
	Forgetting its own griefs the while;
	The face that could soften another's distress.
	And cover its own with a smile.

	In joy, hers the spirit of goodness and love;
	In sorrow, of patience and rest;
	The favored of God and His angels above,
	Was Emma - the dearest and best.
AUGUST, 1878.              O.F.W.


THE OBJECT OF LIFE.

	Oft I pause and ask myself the question,
What is the object of life?  There certainly
must be a grand and holy purpose at the
foundation of our creation, else why this
innate louging and thirst for knowledge -
this perpetual desire for improvement and
advancement. We meet often, and our
souls feast together in the good things of
the Lord.  Our religion is to us a constant
source of wealth, still we never become sa-
tiated, we are ever ready and anxious to
partake of a spiritual feast.  I have reflect-
ed upon this, and feel that our Heavenly
Father has implanted these feelings and
desires in our hearts, that this earthly pro-
bation may not be in vain.  And the object
of this life must be to test us, to try us in
all things, and to make us more "perfect,
even as our Father in Heaven is perfect."
We may feel that we are far from this, but
it is by overcoming the small things, and
being able to bear the little trials and per-
plexities of life patiently and meekly,
striving to profit by our daily experiences,
that we are enabled to become more perfect,
overcoming our weaknesses and not allow-
ing them to overcome us.  We must become
perfect, even as our Father in Heaven is
perfect."  This is a great undertaking for
us all; but let us date from this time a no-
bler life, and try to make each day better
than the last, and we will find the task, will
gradually become lighter and more easy of
accomplishment.
	In order to make the most rapid progress,
in any work, we must fully reailze and sense
the magnitude of the undertaking.  To be-
come perfect requires constant determina-
tion and continued labor.  We must think
no evil, and then we will be sure to act none.
Our bodies should be kept pure, cleanly and
sacred, that they may be fit temples for the
indwelling of the Holy Spirit.  Though
our clothing may not be of the finest and
most expensive quality, we can have it
cleanly and so fashioned as to give grace
and freedom to our movements, and con-
duce to our health and comfort.  It is just
as much our duty to guard and preserve
our bodies as our spirits; for there are laws
that govern our physical as well as our
spiritual natures, and just so sure as we
break one of these laws we must pay the
penalty.
	We should seek to improve in every
sense of the word.  We imagine angelic
beings as all that is pure, good, graceful,
refined and beautiful; then let us strive to
be like unto them, and improve in our in-
tercourse and deportment by being affable
and obliging.  What a small thing is a word,
but when spoken kindly how much pleasure
and happiness it gives to the oft world-weary
heart.  Let us from this time endeavor to im-
part joy and gladness to the hearts of others,
and our own hearts will be much lighter
and happier; and will we not be thus drift-
ing nearer that object of life, Perfection?
Let us cease our slang phrases and uncouth
sayings, and use only that language to which
the best cultivated and purest beings would
love to listen, and speak in those tones and
that spirit that would cause the angels to
linger near.  And our actions - how strictly
we should guard them.  Unkind thoughts
may unbidden come, harsh words may be
impulsively uttered, but an unwise act we
can never recall.  Then let us watch our-
selves constantly and prayerfully, asking
the aid of Father, who is ever merciful,
and He will bless and assist us in our ear-
nest efforts to become "perfect, even as He
is perfect."
									E. R. S.
S. L. City, Oct. 18, 1878.


IS CO-OPERATION THE NEW PRINCI-
		PLE OF INDUSTRY?

To what chaos is industry tending?  Its
insurgency increases.  Will its purturba-
tions ever end?  From being aggressive
will trade-unions become destructive forces?
Will the proletariat finally take the field,
and the capitalist have to fight for his life?
 Excited empty-handed labor seems on fire,
and the political economist, albeit[--] damp-
ing creature, seems powerless to extin-
guish it.  Doctrinal streams of "supply
and demand" poured upon it act but as
petroleum upon flame.  Organized capital
grinds industry as in the mystic mill of the
gods–very small.  The isolated laborer is
frightened, and flees to combination for
safety.  No protest that capital is [-]is friend
reassures him.  Terror has made him deaf,
and experience unbelieving.  Can the 
struggle of ages, made deadlier now by in-
creasing intelligence, end save but by the 
despotism of the knife?  Every  man asks
these questions, to which there is but one
answer. A new principle has entered in-
dustry, which has slowly awakened hope,
and will surely bring deliverince. Its 
name is co-operation.
   Wookmen will buy capital at its price in
the market, which will be ruled by the
risks of the enterprise in which they em-
ploy it.  That they propose to pay, whether
at the laborer's rate or at the Jenny Lind
rate.  When capital came into this field of
industry, men were necessitous and igno-
rant of its capacity for estimating its own
services.  Capitalists, therefore, hired labor,
paid it its ordinary price, and took all prof-
its.  Co-operative labor proposes to reverse
this process.  Its plan is to buy capital, pay
its full value, and itself take all profit. It
is more reasonable and better for society
and progress that men should own capital
than that capital should own men.  Capital
is the servant, men are the masters and
when capital is in its proper place there
will be no more discontent, no more con-
flicts of industry.  In competition capital
buys labor.  In co-operation labor buys
capital; the whole distinction of principle
lies there.  Capital is used in co-operation
and honestly paid for, but the capitalist is
excluded.  Capital is a commodity, not a 
person.  The worker is the sole person con-
cerned in co-operation.  The capitalist sells
his commodity to the workers.  The capi-
talist has no position but that of a lender,
no claim save for the interests for which he
bargains, and being paid that, he should
not be permitted to reappear as a partici-
pant in the profits of labor.  The capitalist
being paid his proper interest, he has no
more claim to any further payment than a
landlord has to a second rent, or a coal mer-
chant to a double discharge of his bill.
   True self-interest is in justice, which
gives all its force to the right and
against the wrong act or the wrong judg-
ment of others, lest self, losing force, sink
under the patronage of charity.  Industrial
interest consists in the command of means
of moderate competence by equitable asso-
ciation for the conduct of labor and division
of profits, without which labor is a ceaseless
strife, bringing the chance of splendor to
the few and certain precarlousness to the 
many–that danger and despair of every
state which equity in industry alone can
terminate.  This new principle of equity
has risen without glamour, it has grown
without friends, it has spread without con-
spiracy, and acquired power without injus-
tice. Stronger than the sword, and loftier
than charity, co operation gives to labor an
abiding grasp of its fruits, and supersedes
benevolence by rendering the industries
independent of it.  It seeks that organiza-
tion of labor and intelligence in which it
shall be impossible for the industrious to be
depraved, or mean, or poor, except by their
own choice or their own act, which can
bring no scandal and no remorse to society,
which provides that neither baseness nor
misery shall be any longer the necessity of
their condition.  All this cannot come soon,
but it will come surely as thought and
courage, patience and perseverance, shall
put in force the new principle of industry.
—G.J. Holyoke in the Nineteenth Century.


GOOD words do more than hard speeches;
as the sunbeams without any noise will
make the traveler take off his coat, which
all the blustering winds could not do, but
only make him bind it closer to him.
	"MY-dear," said a wife to her husband,
"I really think it is time we had a green-
house." "Well, my love, paint it any color
you please—red, white or green will suit
me," responded the husband.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

			MILLVILLE, May 2d, 1878.

	Meeting called for the re-organization of
the Relief Society. Meeting opened with
singing and prayer. Minutes of the former
meeting and the Quarterly report were
read. Bishop Pitkin spoke of the condi-
tion of the Society, of the first organization,
&c.; wanted to see the Society sustained by
the sisters of the ward; encouraged the
sisters to do right. Brothers King and
Laird made a few remarks on the changes
made since the first organization, and gave
some good instruction. Sarah A. Pitkin
spoke of her resignation, after which the
following nominations were made and
unanimously sustained:

	Susannah Hovey, President,
	Mariah Pitkin,	} Counselors,
	Mary Yates,		}
	Annie Anderson, Assistant Secretary.
	Sarah A. Pitkin, Doctress.

	The above named Sisters were then or-
dained and set apart by Bishop Pitkin and
Counselors.
	Several of the sisters bore their testimo-
ny to the truth of the Gospel, &c. A vote
of thanks was returned to Sarah A. Pitkin,
the former President. Benediction by
George O. Pitkin.
			L. HOVEY, President,
			Matilda Pitkin, Secretary.

		PANACCA, NEVADA, Oct. 6, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We, the sisters of Panacca Relief Society,
would like to represent ourselves in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We were re-organ-
ized June 22d, 1877, by President McCal-
lister and Counselors, when the following
named sisters were elected:

	Pamela E. Thompson, President,
	Christiana Syphus,	} Counselors.
	Ann Burgess,		}
	Mary A. Syphus, Secretary,
	Elizabeth Wadsworth, Treasurer.

	There are fifty-one members enrolled; we
hold meetings semi-monthly, and a spirit
of union seems to prevail. The sisters are
willing to do all in their power for the ad-
vancement of the work in which we are
engaged. We have a sewing machine, and
also own a half share in the book entitled
"The Women of Mormondom." We own
a town lot here, and have the adobies ready
for building a house, which the brethren
intend to build for us this winter. The
most of the members here take the EXPO-
NENT, and we feel greatly benefitted by the
valuable instruction contained therein.
Wishing you success, we remain, &c.,
		PAMELA E. THOMPSON, President,
		MARY A. SYPHUS, Secretary.

			WELLSVILLE, Aug. 20th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We send you the Financial Report of our
Tenth Anniversary, ending July 11th, 1878:
Total Receipts..................................$151 63
Disbursements................................    29 64
Logan Temple..................................    50 17
Relief House.....................................    46 16
The needy.........................................    37 88
								———
		Total Disbursements.......   163 85
Articles in the Treasury...................   100 42
46 bushels of wheat stored.

	We had a good time at our annual meet-

[Column 2]
ing, and also enjoyed ourselves in a dance
in the evening; all was satisfactory.
	We were much pleased with a visit we
had, on the 8th inst., with sisters E. R.
Snow and Elizabeth Davis. We held meet-
ing in the afternoon and enjoyed ourselves
very much. Sister E. Davis spoke on Ce-
lestial Marriage, and Sister E. R. Snow ad-
dressed us on the same subject in a very
laudable manner. Spoke of organizing a
Primary Improvement Association, which
we fully endorsed. Several of the brethren
were present, and bore their testimony to
the truth of her remarks. The young gen-
tlemen and ladies met in the evening, and
we had a time of rejoicing. We pray the
Lord to bless and prosper all the interests
of Zion.
			ELLEN WHITON, Pres't.
			LUCY E. HASLAM, Sec'y.

			TOOELE CITY, Sept. 12, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We wish to mingle our voice with the
rest, and let you know how we are getting
along as a Young Ladies' Association in
Tooele. We meet twice a month on week
days, and every Sunday evening alternately
with the Young Men's Association. Our
officers are very energetic in their endeav-
ors to carry out the instructions of the
Presidency. We have been several days
gleaning this season, and are fully alive to
the necessity of preparing for the troubles
that have already commenced. We feel
very thankful that we are here safe from
the pestilence and famine that is spreading
upon this continent. We can see the pro-
phecies are being fulfilled very fast, and we
desire to be wide awake, that we may ac-
complish some good in our generation. We
are favored with officers who are constantly
on the alert. We read the EXPONENT with
great interest.
		MRS. ELIZABETH TATE, Pres't.
		EMILY A. WARBURTON, Sec'y.

				HYRUM, Aug. 20th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I send you the yearly report of our Re-
lief Society, ending Aug. 6th, 1878:

Receipts on hand Aug. 6, 1878.........$243 80
	Report of Receipts.
Donations to Logan Temple.............. 163 80
To Foreign Mission..............................   30 97
Monthly donations and means from
	parties...........................................   89 30
Gain on shares in Co-op Store...........   10 00
Gain on Relief Store.............................   44 00
Quilts made..........................................  112 50
								   ———
		Total					   450 50
	Disbursements.
To Logan Temple..................................  137 95
Paid on R. S. house and lot..................  300 00
To Foreign Mission................................    30 97
Given to the poor and aged.................    50 00
To Sundry expenses..............................    17 13
								     ———
		Total					     536 06
	On hand to date,
Goods in R. S. Store				       51 85
Shares in Hyrum Co-op..........................   40 00
Shares in Logan Factory.........................   25 00
Property, including house furniture,
	books, &c.......................................... 324 00
								      ———
	Total						      440 85

We have on hand 170 bushels of wheat,
and are making calculations to gather all
we can this Fall; as we have a bountiful har-

[Column 3]
vest this season; we feel to persevere and
lay up while it is plenty.
	We were honored with a visit from our
beloved Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Davis
on the 9th inst., and had two very interest-
ing meetings. The Spirit of God was
poured out upon them, and we had a time
of rejoicing in listening to their kind and
good counsel. Our sisters appreciate the
visits of Sister Snow and the excellent in-
structions we receive from her, and pray
that she may live long and do all the good
her heart desires. We would be pleased if
she and our other good sisters could visit
us very often. Sister Snow exhorted us to
sustain home industry, and to do all in our
power to start the silk business. Congratu-
lated us on our success in the millinery;
asked all to rise to their feet who wore
homemade hats, and almost every one
arose. She blest them for their willingness
to obey counsel, and spoke many cheering
words to the sisters, which will be long re-
membered. Our President, Sister Liljen-
quist, is alive to her duties and the inter-
ests of the kingdom of God, as are also all
of the officers of our Society, and the mem-
bers generally feel to respond to every call.
	Wishing continued success to the EXPO-
NENT, I subscribe myself your sister in the
Gospel,
			N. M. NEILSEN, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON
			FERENCE

		DAVIS COUNTY STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies a[-]d Y. L. M. I. A's of Davis Stake
was held at Farmington, Oct. 17, 1878,
commencing at 10 a. m.; Pres. Sarah I
Holmes presiding. There were present on
the stand Pres. M. I. Horne and her Coun-
selors, E. S. Taylor and S. M. Heywood, of 
the Salt Lake Stake, Pres. S. I. Holmes and
Counselors, Mary S. and Nancy A. Clark, of
the Davis Co. Stake.
	After singing and prayer, the minutes of
the preceding meeting and also the reports
of the various Societies in the County were
read by Miss M. E. Richards, Secretary.
The reports show—
Receipts since the organization	$10200 00
Disbursements				8957 00
On hand in the Treasury			1243 00
Wheat stored				57 bu., 21 lbs
	Sisters Horne, Taylor and Heywood occu-
pied the remainder of the forenoon, ex-
horting the sisters to be diligent in the
performance of their duties; home indus-
try, storing grain, unity and punctuality
were the chief subjects, upon which they
spoke with considerable earnestness.
	The afternoon meeting was presided over
by Mrs. Nancy A. Clark, President of the
Young Ladies' Associations of the Stake.
	Secretary Miss Wealthy Richards read
the reports of three Associations, showing
that they are awake to their duties.
	Sisters Horne, Taylor, Heywood, Holmes
and Clark gave some excellent instructions
and encouraged the young ladies to con-
tinue in well doing, and to use their influ-
ence to bring about a reformation in the
young men.
	Mrs. Aurelia Rogers gave a verbal report
of the Primary Association of Farmington,
of which she is President. Manifested a
great interest in the mission assigned her.
A good spirit prevailed, and prompted
each speaker. Meeting adjourned until the
16th of January, 1879.
		MINERVA E. RICHARDS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LET BYGONES BE BYGONES.

Let bygones be bygones; if bygones were clouded
	By aught that occasioned a pang of regret,
Oh, let them in darkest oblivion be shrouded;
	'Tis wise and 'tis kind to forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones, and good be extracted
	From ill over which it is folly to fret;
The wisest of mortals have foolishly acted—
	The kindest are those who forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; oh, cherish no longer
	The thought that the sun of affection has set;
Eclipsed for a moment, its rays will be stronger,
	If you, like a Christian, forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; your heart will be lighter,
	When kindness of yours with reception has met;
The flame of your love will be purer and brighter
	If, Godlike, you strive to forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; oh, purge out the leaven
	Of malice, and try an example to set,
To others, who, craving the mercy of heaven,
	Are sadly too slow to forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; remember how deeply
	To heaven's forbearance we all are in debt;
They value God's infinite goodness too cheaply
	Who heed not the precept, "Forgive and forget."
						—Chambers' Journal.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

		CONTINUED.
	This feast lasted three days, during which
time all in the vicinity of Kirtland who
would come were invited, and entertained
as courteously and generously as if they
had been able to extend hospitality instead
of receiving it. The Prophet Joseph and
his two Counselors being present each day,
talking, blessing, and comforting the poor,
by words of encouragement and their most
welcome presence; some are now living
who were present at that Feast, and many
have passed behind the vail. The Prophet
Joseph often referred to this particular Feast,
during his lifetime, and testified of the
great blessing he felt in associating with
the meek and humble ones whom the Lord
has said "He delights to own and bless."
He often said to me that it was preferable
and far superior to the elegant and select
parties he afterwards attended, and afford-
ed him much more genuine satisfaction;
and to me it was "a feast of fat things in-
deed; a season of rejoicing never to be for-
gotten. The Temple in Kirtland being
built and dedicated, the word of the Lord
to the Saints was to build up Missouri, and 
the Saints repaired thither as fast as cir-
cumstances would permit.
	Great manifestations of power were wit-
nessed in the Kirtland Temple; it used
oftentimes to seem as though it was illumi-
nated, and many and powerful were the
manifestations to those who were humble
and participated in the ordinances bestowed
upon the faithful Saints in that house. The
first partriarchal blessing meeting over
which Joseph Smith, Sen., presided was
one of the most striking and noticeable fea-
tures of that particular period of time. In
this meeting I received the gift of singing
inspirationally, and the first Song of Zion
ever given in the pure language was sung
by me then, and interpreted by Parley P.
Pratt, and written down; of which I have
preserved the original copy. It describes
the manner in which the ancient patriarchs
blessed their families, and gives some ac-
count of "Adam ondi Ahman."

In ancient days there lived a man;
Amidst a pleasant garden,
Where lovely flowers immortal bloom'd,
And shed around a rich perfume;
Behold, his name was Adam.

One of the nobles of the Earth,
Had mighty power in blessing;

[Column 2]
Received the Priesthood, and went forth
And blessed his seed, and gave the earth
Blessings for their possession.

He sealed them for eternal life,
And all their generations,
Who should obey the Gospel plan,
Down to the latest years of man—
A multitude of nations.

Isaac and Jacob, they in turn
Had power to bless their children;
Hence, Jacob by his faith did learn,
And gave directions for his bones
To be conveyed to Canaan.

By the same spirit, Joseph gave
A great and mighty blessing
To Ephraim, and Manasseh too,
Whereby their seed were carried through
Long travels, though distressing.

By that same faith they built a ship,
And crossed the mighty ocean.
Obtain'd the choicest land of Earth,
Foretold the great Messiah's birth,
And all the great commotion,
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
The Holy Priesthood long remain'd
In all its power and glory,
Until the Priests of God were slain,
Their records hid from wicked men
Within the hill Cumorah.

Their remnants sank in sorrow down,
Became a loathsome people,
To misery and sorrow doom'd,
Their pleasant fields o'erspread with gloom,
Ruled by a Gentile nation.

But now the Priesthood is restored,
And we partake its blessings;
Our parents and our children dear
With Joseph's remnants have a share
To latest generations.

As Adam blest his family
In Adam ondi Ahman,
So shall our aged father bless
His seed who dwell in righteousness
Upon the land of Zion.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
The Prophet Joseph promised me that I 
should never lose this gift if I would be
wise in using it; and his words have been
verified.
	My husband's partner in business had
been sent up to Jackson Co., Missouri, and
had opened a branch business there; and
according to the best of my recollection
about 1837, the Prophet Joseph called up-
on my husband to go up to Far West to pre-
side; we set about making preparations for
removal. My friends, who knew what deli-
cate health I had, and how unaccustomed I
was to any hardships, inconvenience, or
privation, looked upon it as almost certain
death for me to go into the wilderness, or
what seemed little better than a desert, or
wiiderness among Indians. My friends
tried to prevail on me to stay until my
husband should go and prepare a comfort-
able place for me and my children; but I 
had unbounded faith in the promises of Jo-
seph, that I should be able to go in safety,
and my trust in God was firm and unshrink-
ing. I bade adieu to my beloved home,
where I had anticipated spending all my
life, and where everything had been ar-
ranged according to my own ideas of taste
and beauty; to my dear friends, and my
kind and ever true Aunt Sarah, who had
been a mother indeed to me and mine. I
felt a tender yearning towards her, and 
had desired with all my heart to bring her
into the faith of the Everlasting Gospel,
but had never been even successful enough
to get her to believe in the least; she looked
upon me as one bereft of my senses; this 
was the hardest trial to me of all—to leave
one so true and faithful and devoted as she
had ever proved herself to me and mine,
alone, without children to comfort her; but
I believed I was serving my Heavenly Fa-
ther and the best interests of all my friends
by so doing. My children were so imbued
with the spirit of the Gospel, that although

[Column 3]
they were disappointed in their hopes and 
expectations in regard to obtaining a supe-
rior education such as we had sought to
stimulate them to obtain, previous to our
embracing the latter-day work; yet they
accepted this change in their worldly cir-
cumstances without a murmur. They were
devotedly attached to Joseph, and were
never weary of praying for him; and their
faith seemed perfect. In their innocence
and trust they believed truly the Lord
would hear and answer them, and they
firmly trusted in all the promises and bless-
ings pronounced upon them. With the 
earnest confidence and assurance of these
little children, I felt I could meet all oppo-
sition, and trusting in my Heavenly Father
come off victorious.
		To be continued.


IMPROPER TREATMENT OF IN-
			FANTS.

	A gentleman of much experience and
sound judgment remarks, that many a little
grave is filled from no other cause than the
imprudent and unreasonable manner in
which a tender but ignorant mother treats
her child.
	She goes with it to the table, where all
kinds of food are prepared; baby coos and
catches at her knife, or spoon, with its tiny
fingers, and if the mother herself does not
think of it, some one else imagines that
baby wants a taste of pie, or pudding, or
something else, and mother, or auntie
having no realizing sense of how small a
particle of rich food may distress the little
stomach not accustomed to it, keeps giving
it a little of first one dainty article and then
another, till presently baby begins to fret,
and then it wants a spoonful of tea or coffee
and gets it; and then cries and worries,
and mama "can't tell what ails it!" Then
it must have some camphor or panacea, and
be jolted and trotted and shaken. until its
flesh is so sore it cannot be moved or
touched without experiencing pain; so it
screams and moans until, doubtless, it be-
comes an immaculate martyr, victimized
by medicines for cold, consumption, lung
fever, &c., while the sole cause of its suf-
fering and death might justly be attributed
to its swallowing a very small amount of
food, too rich or too strenuous for the little
unprepared stomach to digest. And yet
the poor, stricken mother feels that she has
done all in her power to save the life of her
precious darling, when, she is at last com-
pelled to lay it away out of sight. Study
human nature, mothers; a proper under-
standing of it is invaluable.
						LULA.


Extract from a letter of one of the Di-
rectors of the Eastern Counties railway,
England, to Mrs. Hannah T. King:
	"You speak of your new locomotive of
thirty-two tons; ours now are more than
double that! In the early times, an engine
weighing twenty tons was considered ab-
surd, and impossible to run! George Steph-
enson, the inventor, was laughed at, before
a committee of the House of Commons, for
daring to hint that a locomotive might be
worked at fifteen miles an hour; now, it is
worked on the lines at sixty miles an hour,
with a heavy train behind it! A frightful
speed, you would think, if you could stand
and see it pass."


FEW are sufficiently wise to prefer
censure which is useful, to praise which is
treacherous.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
CHARITY OF MORMON WOMEN.

	Charity is always illustrated by the figure of
a woman, and mankind have silently classed
this attribute as a womanly characteristic, and
called it the sister of Faith and Hope; and in
later years, women who spend a great portion
of their time in performing deeds of kindness
and benevolence, are designated as Sisters of
Charity. So closely associated is charity with
the life of the fair sex, that it is considered a
positive requisite of true womanly character.
	The world talk a great deal of charity, and
make a great ado about its loveliness, its excel-
lence, its charm, but though it sits admirably
on others, many persons are apt to admire the
mantle as an ideal beauty, who never really
don the garb, or cultivate the element in them-
selves. It sounds well, it is a pretty sentiment,
one likes, above all things, to realize it as a
part of the elements of that society with which
one mingles, but how hard it is to cherish it as
a part and portion of one's individual every-
day life.
	There is a large-hearted, open-handed charity
that ennobles and enriches the lives of both
men and women, for certainly if women have
this attribute largely developed they will im-
part the true germ to both sons and daughters;
this is the inevitable law of nature; but every
germ wants nourishment and proper cultiva-
tion, and the attributes possessed or inherited
resemble in many respects the order of nature's
vegetable kingdom. The exquisite germs re-
ceived as a precious heritage, placed in healthy
soil and carefully tended, grow and flourish,
and by and by blossom and ripen, producing
desirable fruits or results, but left in barren soil
without cultivation, are stinted, and wither
away: Then there is a custom or theory of
cultivation for all plants and all principles,
which, when adopted, promote fuller, richer
growth than to pursue all sorts of ways.
	Mormon women are anxious to ascertain and
pursue the highest and best methods in every
department of life and labor, and also in their
charities. They have a system of charity that
surpasses any other in its fitness and adapta-
tion to the circumstances of the people. We
allude to the institution called Relief Society;
but wishing not only to provide resources for
the present needs of the poor, the aged, the in-
firm and sick, but also to extend a still wider
field of benevolence, and enlarge the scope of
woman's labor beyond the to-day, and prepare
for emergencies in the coming future, Mormon
women have adopted a large hearted system of
public charity in the storing of grain, which
forms the staff of life.
	It is now over two years since this peculiar
enterprise was established, and from all parts
of the Territory reports reach us of the enjoy-
ment the sisters have in fulfilling this mission
of good works. It is a mission which impresses

[Column 2]
all who are truly charitable in tone and senti-
ment with the idea of its loftiness and sublim-
ity.
	Sisters, do you realize the privilege you
have, to store up grain against a day of want?
If you do, prove it by your most earnest and
energetic efforts now, when the Lord has
given such a bounteous harvest. The second
Annual Meeting of the several committees for
storing grain will be held in this city, Nov. 16;
and we hope previous to that time to receive
accurate reports from all parts of the Territory
stating the amount of grain on hand, and the
manner in which it is secured.
	We invite all who are interested in this grand
enterprise to attend the meeting and hear the
reports concerning this department of woman's
work. Due notice of the time and place of
holding it will be given through the "Deseret
News." One of the most active workers in
woman's cause in the East, an editor of a pa-
per devoted to the interests and advancement
of women, says, "I'm much interested in the
industries and labors of Mormon women, and
especially the storing of grain, and intend giv-
ing place soon to an article on the subject."
								[---]


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	BY LETTER we learn that Sisters E. R.
Snow and E. Davis, who are making a tour
through some of the northern settlements,
were at Echo City on the 27th of October, in
the enjoyment of health, and rejoicing in their
labors.
	UTAH CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.—Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson intends establishing a musical
conservatoire on the Europen style. By this
means pupils may receive competent instruc-
tion in vocal and instrumental music much
cheaper than the usual terms. Dr. Ferguson is
a lady of superior culture, and has had the ad-
vantages of training in musical institutions
in Europe. She has the happy faculty of bring-
ing her pupils forward rapidly, and certainly
deserves patronage. She is also a teacher of
languages, elocution, dramatic reading, and,
indeed, is qualified to give instruction in all
the higher branches of education.
	ON THURSDAY, Oct. 24th, through courtesy
of Hon. George Q. Cannon, we had the plea-
sure of attending the Indian Commission party
in a railroad trip to the Old Telegraph Smelt-
ing, Concentrating and Leaching Works, a
little beyond the Junction of the Bingham
Cañon Railroad. There was a sufficient num-
ber to make the party a pleasant one, and as
most of the gentlemen and ladies were unac-
quainted with the process of smelting, concen-
trating and leaching, and as Prof. Holden was
ready to elucidate and explain, as also Mrs.
Holden, who seemed quite intelligent on the
subject, going through the establishment was
made specially interesting. The party con-
sisted of Senator Saunders of Nebraska; Sena-
tor McCreery of Kentucky, General Hooker of
Mississippi, and Dr. Stuart and Mr. Caldwell
of Minnesota, of the joint Indian Commission,
with several gentlemen from Camp Douglas,
Col. Trotter, Lieut. Patterson and others; from
the city Mayor Little, wife and daughters,
Prof. L. E. Holden and wife, Prof T. B. Lewis
and wife, Bishop Sharp and daughter, the re-
porters for the "Deseret News" and "Salt Lake
Herald," and several other young people, who,
with the genial flow of wit and humor, made
the conversation lively, and the time sped
swiftly as also the train.
	THE YOUNG Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association of the Eleventh Ward celebrated

[Column 2]
their Seventh Anniversary Friday, Oct. 18, in
the Ward Meeting House; Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
presiding. There were present as visitors Pres
Angus M. Cannon and several brethren of the
ward, Mrs. M. I. Horne, President of Relief
Societies of Salt Lake Co., and her Counselors,
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and S. M. Heywood, Mrs.
Phebe Woodruff and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	After singing and prayer, Ass't Secretary
Miss Alice Freeze read the minutes of the last
meeting, and Treasurer Mrs. Louie Felt read
the Financial Report for the past year, which
was a very creditable one, there having been
donated by the Society $193 00, which had
been disbursed to the Temple, to the storing of
grain, and to charitable purposes. Next fol-
lowed an essay by Mrs. E. R. Shipp, M. D.
Pres. Cannon spoke eloquently on the estab-
lishing of Mutual Improvement Associations
and their object; also upon the necessity of
sustaining home industries. Mrs. Horne made
some excellent remarks, and was followed by
the other lady visitors, all of whom gave good
instructions. Counselor E. R. Shipp, in be-
half of the Association, presented to the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Freeze, an elegant hair wreath,
nicely framed; the wreath being composed
entirely of the hair of the members, accompa-
nied by a poem written by Mrs. Shipp and
dedicated to Mrs. Freeze, who responded in a
few words, it being wholly a surprise to her.
The meeting adjourned for one year; and the 
company sat down to a choice repast which
had been arranged by the young ladies. A good
spirit pervaded the assembly, and all felt that
the time had been well spent.
	IN COMPANY with Sisters Zina D. and Martha
B. Young, we recently made a tour through
some of the settlements in Utah County, in
the interest of th[-] Relief Societies and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations.
We left this city on Wednesday morning, Oct.
16, and was absent four days; visited Lehi,
American Fork, Spanish Fork, Goshen, Pleas-
ant Grove, and attended nine meetings. The
Bishops and brethren in the various lo[-]alities
came out to the sisters' meetings, manifesting
the greatest interest in their labors. Under
the direction of the Bishops and Relief Socie-
ties eight Primary Associctions were organized.
Much general instruction was given in regard
to woman's work in connection with these So-
cieties, all of which was sanctioned by the
Bishops; the good results of the sisters' labors
are everywhere becoming apparent.
	At Spanish Fork we found the meeting house
decorated with a great variety of needle and
ornamental work of various kinds, designs and
patterns, in honor of their Annual Meeting.
We were all both surprised and delighted to
see that so much had been done by the Society.
The report was excellent. At Goshen we met
with a similar surprise, the house being very
beautifully decorated, as though it had been
for a festival instead of a meeting; indeed, the
effect seemed to be inspiring. It was also the
Annual Meeting of the Relief Society of
Go[-]hen.  There were visitors from several other
settlements—Spanish Fork, Santaquin and
Spring Lake, among whom were Bishop Halla-
day of Santaquin, and Mrs. E. J. Stickney,
President of Santaquin R. S, Mrs. M. Fergu-
son, President of Spanish Fork. Their report
was also very creditable. In the evening we
met with the Y. L. M. I. A., a large number
of young men also being present; after the
evening had been spent in speaking and other
religious exercises, Mrs Christina Higginson
read a poem she had composed for the occasion,
as a welcome to the sisters who had come to
visit them.


Saturday morning the little children were
called together and were organized into a Pri-
mary Association. Everywhere we went we
were most cordially welcomed and hospitably
entertained, and the best feelings of the peo-
ple seemed to be drawn out in supporting the
advancement of women in the home indus-
tries, storing of grain, silk-culture, i[-] fact all
spiritual, mental and industrial progression.
	The weather was fine, the country air brac-
ing, and the picture which presented ittelf on
all sides was pleasing. Peaceful villages nes-
t[-]ed in the valleys, with fields, just shorn of
their beauty, lying bare, while the numerous
stacks and cornricks told of the plenteous har-
vests; orchards just turned brown and purple,
and shrubbery, nipped with frost, in all the va-
rieties of shade, cattle grazing on the hills, or
lowing in the farmyards, herds of sheep nip-
ping closer the short grass, stands of beehives,
and a thousand other pastoral beauties, that
bespoke the thrift and industry of the people.
How one accustomed to the city rejoices in a
visit to the country, where all is simple and
rustic, and the very air of hospitality is in it-
self exhilarating. In this mountainous land
wherever we go there is variety in the scenery,
land at this season of the year the rich hues of
autumn foliage lends another charm to the
mountain scenery. The maple, the mountain
ash, the scrub oak and ivy are ablaze with
scarlet, or royally robed in purple.
	Everywhere prosperity seems to smile upon
the homes of the Saints, and the blessings of
God crown their labors. One of the most pleas-
ing things in our experience in these visits is
to see the little children, boys and girls, called
together in the Primary Associations; their
smiling faces glowing with health, their eyes
sparkling with intelligence, watching the
speakers, anxiously expectant, and desirous
to learn their part in the programme of the
meeting.
	We return our thanks to the brethren and
sisters who so cordially entertained our party,
and conveyed us all from place, and especially
the Bishops who opened the meeting houses
for the accomodation of the sisters, extending
them every privilege possible to make the
meetings pleasant, and honoring the occasion
with their presence and hearty approval of the
sisters' works.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		85


TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE Y. L.
	M. I. A. OF SALT LAL[-] STAKE OF ZION:
	GREETING!

	Beloved Sisters: Having been recently chosen
as Superintendent of the branches of Y. L. M.
I. A. in this Stake of Zion, I feel desirous to
express, in a humble manner, my thanks for
the honor conferred upon me by my sisters in
electing me to fill so responsible a position. I
am thankful to my Heavenly Father that we,
the handmaidens of the Lord, are called to be
co-workers with the brethren in His work
in this the last dispensation. Sisters, do we
fully appreciate the privileges and blessings
we enjoy through the principles and institu-
tions of the holy Gospel? I know there are
many faithful sisters among the young ladies,
and I comprehend, though in a small degree
only, something of the future that lies before
them, and the need they have to qualify them-
selves for high and holy duties.
	I shall be pleased to visit the various
branches of the Y. L. M. I. A. in this county,
from time to time, whenever it will be most
convenient for the sisters to receive me. I
would say to the officers of Societies, be faith-
ful in advising and encouraging the young sis-
ters to assist in sustaining all home industries,


also home literature. The young ladies should
read the best books and papers, those that will
give them a knowledge of the principles of
eternal truth. There are many good books of
prose and poetry. The Harp of Zion is full of
inspiration, and is musical in expression and
delineation of its subjects. There are two vol-
umes of poems by Zion's sweet songstress, our
beloved Sister Eliza R. Snow, and the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT furnishes us with both prose
and poetry of a character adapted to the minds
of the women of Zion, and it should be sus-
tained by our young ladies as well as the older
ones; all have the privilege of contributing to
its columns. Great things will be required at
the hands of the teachers and instructors of
the young, and there is much need of wisdom
to discharge judiciously the duties devolving
upon them. May the blessing of God rest upon
the young ladies who are striving to be useful
in their day and generation, and upon all who
are co-workers in the great Latter-day work, is
the prayer of
	Your humble servant,
				MARY A. FREEZE.
			Superintendent Y. L. M. I. A.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.

	It pleased our Heavenly Father to call to
Himself, on September 29, our beloved Sister
Lydia Ann Weiler Horne. She left a husband
and four children (one of them a little babe
six weeks old), and a circle of friends as exten-
sive as her acquaintance, to mourn her loss.
She possessed some of the most exquisite wo-
manly faculties and attributes. She exercised
a decided influence for good, which her sweet
memory will preserve. Her home was ever a
pleasant resort to those who associated with
her.
	For ten years she lived and labored with us,
in which time her example helped greatly to
elevate the tone and taste of society in our set-
tlement. For six years she was President of
our Relief Society, when her feeble health
would not admit of the responsibilities which
that position involved. She then acted for
three years as First Counselor to our present
President, Mrs. Sarah Copley, in which posi-
tion she made herself very useful till her
death. While her husband, Bishop Joseph S.
Horne, was on a recent mission to Switzerland
she was ever happy and hopeful. Her children
show what a mother can do by precept and ex-
ample. Her faith in God and His priesthood
was unfaltering, and but a few hours before her
death she said, "If it was not for the priest-
hood, I should not be here now."
	The funeral services were held in our school-
house, immediately before Br. Horne started
with the remains for S. L. City, where they,
according to her own request, were deposited.
Many loving friends assembled to take a last
look at that dear, gentle friend; and many ac-
companied them to the next settlement, Fay-
ette, where Bro. Horne warmly thanked his
friends for their sympathy and the kind feel-
ings thus expressed.				H. M.
	Gunnison, Oct. 15, 1878.

	DIED, of diphtheria, in Salt Lake City, Wed-
nesday afternoon, Oct. 16, little Roy Clawson,
youngest [-]on of H. B. and Ellen S. Clawson,
aged three years and one month. Roy was
born September 20, 1875. He did not appear
to suffer at all during his four days' illness, and
passed away as gently and sweetly as though
he was going to sleep. "Auntie, I'm done
playing," were the last words he ever spoke.
He was a most interesting child, affectionate
in his nature, and fondly attached to his little

[Column 2]
playmates, brothers and sisters; his death has
left a vacancy in the home circle that can
never be filled until the morning of the resur-
rection, when "mothers receive their dead to
life;" but the great Healer of all wounds helps
to make our griefs less poignant as he journeys
onward, and to all who seek it the Holy Spirit,
the Comforter, is given, which lifts the mourn-
er above sorrow and gives that consolation
which is an ever-abiding hope and trust in the
promises of God, and enables us to say, "God
knoweth best."
	We extend our sincere sympathies to the be-
reaved parents and family.

	"There is no flock, however watch'd and tended,
		But one dead lamb is there!
	There is no fireside, howe'er defended,
		But has one vacant chair."

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, Aug. 18, 1878, Flor-
ence Emily Dunford, youngest daughter of
Bishop George and Mrs. Sarah Dunford, aged
13 years, 8 months, and 24 days. Deceased was
born in St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 14, 1864. She was
a superior and promising girl, mature in devel-
opment, both physically and mentally, beyond
her years, and this was often remarked upon
by her relatives and those who were intimately
acquainted with her. She possessed some of
the finest womanly qualities, which rendered
her specially attractive to her schoolmates and
friends. In her home she was fondly cher-
ished, endearing herself to father, mother,
brothers and sisters, by her kindly manner and
thoughtfulness of the wishes and desires of
others. She had a tender heart, ever alive to
the sorrows of her associates, manifesting as
much interest in their troubles as if they were
her own. Miss Flossie (as she was usually
called) was a constant attendant at Miss Cook's
school for several years. At the exhibition
given at the close of the school last summer,
she recited "Infeiicissime," a very beautiful
and touching poem, the last words of which
are,

		"And the careless are the light—
			Light of heart and light of head;
		And ye robe the bride in white,—
			And in white ye shroud the dead."

Methinks I see her now as she stood there
then, in maidenly sweetness, full of life and
vigor and in the bloom of health and youthful
beauty. We sympathize most deeply with
the bereaved mother and friends, but feel as-
sured that with their dear Flossie all is well.


REMEDIES FOR THE BLUES.

	"What makes you look so down-hearted,
as if you hadn't a friend in the world?"
asked an unmarried lady of one who was
the mother of five children. "Because I
feel so," was the reply. "Well, why do
you feel so? Why don't you sing and smile
and think of the blessings which surround
you, and thank God for them and ask for
more, and be happy?" queried the single
lady, who, having no trouble in being cheer-
ful herself, could not see why others should.
To which the weary wife and mother re-
plied, "You know I never could sing.,,
"Why don,t you whistle, then?" asked the
girl. But here listen to what Faith Roches-
ter has to say about it. "Good health is 
a foundation for that which goes by the
name of 'Good nature.' A half sick woman
will usually be irritable. When a loving
and well-meaning mother finds herself
'cross,' she needs to pray for grace, and 
something else—to pray in the most practi-
cal manner for plenty of help and plenty of
rest, and for good diet and pure air, too."
Certainly, Faith is right.
						LULA.


86		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


QUARTERLY OONFERENCE.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion was held in the large
Tabernacle in this city, Oct. 5th, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., Elder Angus M. Cannon
presiding. There was a fair representation
of the officers of the Stake present. All
the wards were represented, except the
20th and North Jordan Wards. After the 
prayer and singing were concluded, a sta-
tistical report of the Stake for the Quarter
ending Aug. 31st, was read; this report in-
cluding also the number of persons drawing
support, the amount of support drawn, and
the amount of fast-day donations in this
Stake.
	A financial report of the Relief Societies
of this Stake, as follows: Wheat on hand,
stored by the Central Grain Committee,
1525 bushels; stored by branch Societies of
the Stake, 4,632 bu.; stored during the
past quarter, 592 bu.; total now on hand,
6,749 bu.; received in cash and property,
$3,747 21; disbursments in cash and prop-
erty, $1,621 79.
	Letter from the Superintendent and As-
sistants of the Sunday Schools of the Stake,
representing them as everywhere in a
prosperous condition. Report from the
New Tabernacle committee, in response to
an allotment made to the various wards.
President Joseph Young made some re-
marks on the duties of the Seventies. Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor presented the authorities
of the Stake, who were unanimously sus-
tained as at last Conference, with some few
exceptions and changes. Elder Orson F.
Whitney was sustained as Bishop of the
18th Ward, in place of Elder Lorenzo D.
Young, whose resignation had been ac-
cepted; Robert Patrick and Wm. B. Barton 
as his Counselors. The leader and members
of the Tabernacle Choir, the President and
Counselors of the Scandinavian meetings
were also sustained. Also Mrs. M. I. Horne
as President of Relief Societies, and her
Counselors, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S.
M. Heywood. Superintendents and assis-
tants of Sunday Schools were sustained as
previously:
	Pres. Angus M. Cannon then made some
remarks upon the business matters of the
Stake, and the conduct of men holding po-
sitions. He said: "Those who disgrace
the positions they occupy by drinking and
other evil practices, will be removed, and
more worthy men appointed in their place;
for these positions are important, and those
sustained in them must wield a proper in-
fluence among the people." He said, in
answer to a question that had been asked,
that women could only hold the priesthood
in connection with their husbands; man
held the priesthood independent of woman.
The sisters have a right to anoint the sick,
and pray the Father to heal them, and to
exercise that faith that will prevail with
God; but women must be careful how they
use the authority of the priesthood in ad-
ministering to the sick.
In the afternoon the time was occupied
by Presidents J. E. Taylor and Angus M. 
Cannon, Apostle Orson Pratt and Pres. John
Taylor, in giving general instruction to the
Saints on various subjects, both of a tem-
poral and spiritual character. The Confer-
ence adjourned sine die.


HEALTH.

	Health, thou precious boon, how early
are we forsaken by thee, how difficult to


regain thee. Why must I languish here,
when my soul loves to wrestle with the
many promises of success held out by am-
bition and hope. Sweet spirit of health, I
call you cruel! I pined, and to my com-
plaint there seemed to come a wall of re-
proach in answer; “I am chained, I am
bound, I cannot come till you loose my fet-
ters.” I loose thy fetters, I who so long to
hold thee to my bosom and call thee mine?
“Even so, to you, who formed the links one
by one.” I only answered, How? “Do
you not transgress the divine laws of God
and nature day by day? Are not the hours
given for sleep, when nature clothes herself
with the mantle of darkness, purloined by
thee, and given to employment, or pastime?
Has it not been written, “Retire early that
you may be refreshed?” Many times have
I gladly held thine eyelids down to give
thee warning, all unheeded by thee. How
many times when I am thine attendant at
the well-spread board I groan, for the cup
of boiling liquid is recklessly taken, which
retards digestion, and excites the brain and
body to inordinate action, only to leave it
more debilitated than before; your food
half masticated is left for your poor stom-
ach to labor with, and strong meats, rich
gravies, and many other things that divine
revelation has said are not good for man
are recklessly taken by thee; the night air
blows rudely on thy half-protected form,
but the tyrant fashion says, as others do
so you must. Many are the links that bind
me—fain would I touch the pale cheek with
rosy bloom, the wasted form with rounded
beauty, the pale lips with carmine, the
drooping eye with light of life, and cause
the chafing spirit to rejoice in the great
blessing of health. Maiden mine, I have
done.”
	For a time I mused—then thought found
words. And I have done all this, and yet I
thought to myself I served my God. Pa-
tiently must I regain, step by step, that
which folly has wrested from me, for well I
know that genius, ambition, power and
wealth are all as naught when deprived of
health, and let my prayer ascend on high,
and be answered on earth, that wisdom be
mine to know how to enjoy the blessings
which God is willing to bestow.
	Provo, Oct., 1878.	WINNIFRED.


[Column 1]
TRANSMISSION.

	Jean Ingelow, in her poem of "Margaret
at the Mere Side," tells, in her own sweet,
dreamy fashion, the story of a fair girl—a
woman in years, but dumb and always to be
a child in intellect—who sat hour by hour,
and day by day, "on the gray stone beneath
the sycamore",—innocent, wistful, sad, al-
ways waiting, always gazing down at the mere.
Her mother had come there a six months'
bride, to see her husband's boat go down the
stream, never to return;

"And she with weeping sore
Peered in the water-flags unceasingly.
*	*	*	*	*
And, after, desolate she sat alone
And mourned refusing to be comforted,
On the gray stone—the moss embroidered stone,
Till, when the days grew short, a child was born
To the dead father underneath the wave"

—A child whose dumb, pensive soul was, by
the subtle sympathy of nature, to be stamped
for life with a grief she never knew.
	Look at anothe picture—from Miss Phelps'
"Silent Partner"—a scene in the pinched, 
worn, driven life of New England factory
girls. Catty—poor, deaf, dumb, repulsive
Catty—had fallen asleep. "Her long fin-
gers moved a little, framing broken words.

[Column 2]
Even in her dreams, this miserable creature
bore about her a dull sense of denial and
distress. Even in her dreams, she listened 
for what she never heard, and spoke that
which no one understood.'
	'Mother used to say', said sip, under her
breath, 'that it was the noise.'
	'The noise?'
	'The noise of the wheels. She said they
beat about in her head. She came home o'
nights, and says to herself, "The baby 'll
never hear in this world, unless she hears
the wheels," and sure enough,' Sip lifted her
face to Perley's with a look of awe—'it is
true enough, that Catty hears the wheels,
but never anything beside.'"
	Cowan and Mrs. Duffey, and Joseph Cook,
in his grand, brave way, will tell us of scores
of wonders like this, but let us take just one
scene from Mrs. Kirby's "Transmission."
We see a young wife stung and tortured by
the daily desertion and faithlesness of him
who should have been her stay and comfort.
We see her patiently, bravely, resolutely
turning away from the sight and feeling of
this torment. We see her—and we think she 
must have asked Heaven's help—constantly
and firmly putting aside and treading down
every burning thought, every vengeful feel-
ing. She did this not for herself, but for the
sake of an innocent soul which she knew
would reflect her own. She had her reward 
in one who grew up before her, pure, sweet,
strong and calm. She had liften him above
dark and petty things into the bright, free
atmosphere of great souls.
	When will the awful significance of these
things dawn upo[-] men and women? When
shall the ideal mother come to her high vo-
cation carefully and reverently, as an artist
comes to her marbles, clothed with strength,
dowered with wisdom, and baptized with
purity and love? When shall she be upheld
and comforted by a husband as pure, as rev-
erent, as herself?
	Do we see all the meaning of Miss Phelps'
ideal marriage? "With her, he is a crowned 
creature; with him she is a free one." Hus-
band of to-day, do you not see that so soon
as you enslave this free creature, your own
royalty, and that of your children, is gone?
So sure as you bind her down upon the altar
of a lower nature, there shall creep forth, out
of the blood of sacrificed womanhood a
swarm of evil creatures that shall look at
you and reproach you, out of the eyes of
your children. 		MARY L. GRIFFITH.
	Woman's Words.


A STANDING VOTE.

	In the address of the Executive Commit-
tee, reference is made to a "standing vote."
English women petition largely, sending in
each year over a quarter of a million of
names asking for the full right of woman
suffrage. But their method of securing
those names is very different from the way
we have worked in the past, and much less
laborious. At every woman suffrage meet-
ing those in favor are requested to atand up
and remain standing until counted. Then
the President and Secretary of the meeting
sign their own names to the petition, add-
ing, and so many others, giving the number.
For instance, if forty-nine persons stood up,
the President and Secretary would sign
their own names, adding, "and forty-nine
others." This is a much easier and more
expeditious way of getting signatures to pe-
titions, than the way the N. W. S. A. has
heretofore practiced, and is the plan recom-
mended by the Executive: Committee. Try
friends.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		87


[Column 1]
ADDRESS

OF THE N. W. S. A. TO THE FRIENDS OF
EQUAL SUFFRAGE FOR WOMAN.

	In pursuance of instructions of the an-
nual meeting held in Rochester, N. Y.,
July 18, 1878, the Executive Committee
present to you the following satement of
work done and to be done during the 45th
Congress.

WORK DONE.

	Since the assembling of the first regular
session, Dec. 3d, 1877, forty thousand men
and women have petitioned Congress for a
16th amendment prohibiting States from
disfranchising United States citizens on ac-
count of sex. The signatures were obtained
by 1,020 women in 425 towns, 125 Congres-
sional districts, 35 States and five Territo-
ries, and duly presented to Congress by 55
Senators and 100 Representatives.
	Jan. 10th, 1878, Senator Sargent, of Cali-
fornia, introduced a joint resolution propos-
ing a 16th amendment for the enfranchis-
ment of woman.
	Jan. 11th and 12th the Senate Committee
reported adversely; their report is now on
the [-]alendar, subject to action at the next
session of Congress. The Senators endors-
ing it are Wadleigh, N. H.; McMillan,
Minn.; Saulsbury, Del.; Merriman, S. C.;
Hill, Ga., and Ingalls, Kansas. Those in
favor of the 16th Amendment, Senators
Hoar, Mass., Mitchell, Oregon and Camer-
on, Wis., are expected to bring in a favor-
able miority report at the opening of the
second session. December next.
	Feb. 5th, the House Judiciary Commit-
tee voted upon a resolution recommending
our proposed 16th amendment, which re-
sulted in a tie; Yeas, Lapham, N. Y.;
Lynde, Wis.; Frye, Me.; Butler, Mass.;
Conger, Mich. Nays, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMahan,
Ohio; Culberson, Texas. Absent, Harris of
Virginia; who has declared himself open to
conviction.
	During the last session of Congress the
temperance women of the nation sent up a
petition of 30,000, praying for "Home Pro-
tection." Though asking to have their
opinions counted on the one question of
licensing the liquor traffic, we may right-
fully add them to our 40,000, thus making
us a 70,000 prayer for the national protec-
tion of women in their citizen's right to a
voice in the government.
	The bill admitting women to practice be-
fore the Supreme Court unanimously re-
ported by the Judiciary Committee and
passed in the House of Representatives by
a vote of 169 to 87, stands upon the Senate
calendar with adverse report of its Judi-
ciary Committee to be acted upon at the
coming session.
	The individual petitions of 300 women of
the various States, asking Congress to re-
move their political disabilities, received
no attention—were not even noticed by ad-
verse reports—while similar petitions from
nine disfranchised men were each promptly
acted upon, and their political rights re-
stored.

WORK TO BE DONE.

	1st. Let all who failed to send 16th
amendment petitions to Washington last
winter, sign, circulate and mail them, pre-
paid (letter postage, remember) to our Re-
cording Secretary, Ellen H. Shelden, No.
1011 M Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.,
on or before the 25th of December, 1878,
that they may be in the hands of Sena-
[Column 2]
tors Hoar, Mitchell and Cameron when they
present their minority report, which we
hope and expect will be in the first week
in December. Please note, friends, that
we are not asking you to roll up a new peti-
tion to a new Congress, but simply to get
all the new names you can to send to the
2d session of the same Congress to add to
the 40,000 presented last winter.
	2d. To the 70,000 petitions for woman's
right of representation now before the 45th
Congress, we wish to add the weight of the
opinions of the friends of woman suffrage
in the Legislatures of the several States
and Territories. To secure such expres-
sion, we ask the suffragists throughout the
country to petition their respective Legis-
latures, asking them to pass resolutions re-
commending Congress to submit a 16th
amendment proposition to the States.
	3d. We ask the officers of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, representing
the different States, to call conventions at
their Capital city early in the session of
their Legislature, and make special effort
to secure action on the 16th amendment
resolution.
	4th. We urge the friends, everywhere,
to call public meetings, get the best local
speakers, and at the close of each meeting
take a standing vote on our 16th amend-
ment question, duly count it and send two
reports thereof, signed by the President
and Secretary of the meeting to our Secre-
tary, Ellen H. Sheldon, No. 1011 M. Street,
N. W. Washington, D. C., for the presenta-
tion to Congress, and two to the State Vice
President of the N. W. S. A. for presenta-
tion to your Legislature.
	5th. Let the Temperance organizations
of the country secure a vote of their mem-
bers upon our question and send reports
thereof duly signed by their officers on be-
half of the number who desire the enfran-
chisement of women.
	6th. Let every woman send to one of
the Senators or Representatives of her State
an individual petition to Congress for the
removal of her own political disabilities.
	7th. Let women by the hundreds and
thousands each address the Senators and
Representatives of her State, both in Con-
gress and Legislature, asking them to vote
for the 16th amendment resolution. Such
direct personal appeals, by voice or letter
will have far more weight than the same
words in the form of a petition, and will
compel our law-makers to feel that we are
not discouraged by their indifference or ad-
verse reports, but instead, are stimulated
to more earnest and determined efforts to
secure national protection in our citizen's
right to vote.
	8th	*	*	*	*
We ask our friends to copy petitions
in ink for themselves, in a clear, legible
hand, obtain signatures immediately and
forward, postage paid, to the proper place
and person—those for Congress to the Sec-
retary of the N. W. S. A., Ellen H. Shel-
don; No. 1011 M. Street, N. W. Washington,
D. C., on or before Nov. 25, 1878; those for
the Legislature to the Vice Pres. of the
N. W. S. A. of your State, on or before Jan.
1st, 1879.
	9th. For the whole thirty years of our
woman suffrage work the one great hin-
drance has been lack of money to meet the
necessary expenses, and to-day it is no ex-
ception. We need money to publish tracts,
send out lecturers, hold conventions, and
for other manifold purposes. We therefore
urge our friends everywhere to send contri-
butions by draft on New York or by P. O.

[Column 3]
Order to our Treasurer, Ellen C. Sargent,
1733 DeSales St., Washington, D. C.
	10th. And last, To save the National
Woman Suffrage Association the labor and
expense of printing and posting the tens of
thousands calls, appeals and petitions, which
we have heretofore incurred, (the past
year, alone, at cost of $1,000) we urge all
wishing to co-operate with us to subscribe,
at once, for the "National Citizen and Ballot
Box, which will hereafter be our medium
of communication with friends and work-
ers.
	On behalf Executive Committee N. W.
S. A.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Chairman.
	Rochester, Sept. 2, 1878.


SENSIBLE TALK FROM A GERMAN
PAPER.

	What shall we do with our daughters?
Give them a good school education; teach
them to cook healthy food. Teach them to
wash, to iron, to mend stockings, to sew on
buttons, to maks their own clothes and a
well-fitting shirt. Teach them to bake; to
know that good cooking saves medicine.
Teach them that a dollar is worth one hun-
dred cents; that only those are saving who
spend less than they receive, and that what-
ever more is spent tends to impoverish.
Teach them that they are much better
dressed in strong cotton garments than in
silk, if they are in debt. Teach them that
one round, full face is worth more than
fifty beautiful consumptive ones. Teach
them to wear strong shoes. Teach them to
make good purchases, and see to the reck-
oning of their accounts. Teach them that
they spoil God's image when they lace
tightly. Teach them good common-sense,
confidence, self-reliance and industry.
Teach them to do garden work and enjoy
nature. Teach them likewise, if they have
money enough, music, painting and all arts,
remembering that these things are second-
ary. Teach them that walking is much
better than riding, and that wild flowers
are very beautiful to those who observe
them. Teach them to despise all make-
believes, and that one should say yes or 
no, when one really means it. Teach them
that happiness in marriage depends neither
upon the station nor the wealth of the hus-
band, but upon his character.
	If you have taught your daughters all
this, and made them understand it fully,
then let them when the time comes, marry
in perfect confidence; they will be sure to
find their way without further assistance.—
Colorado Farmer.


WORSE THAN NONE.—A bad husband is
infinitely worse than none. Girls, never
marry a fellow who is ashamed to carry a
bundle; who lies in bed until breakfast
and until his father has opened his shop,
or office, and swept it out; who frequents
taverns, bowling-saloons, prize fights, etc.;
who owes his tailor, shoemaker, washerwo-
man, jeweler, barber, printer and landlady,
and never pays his debts; who is always
talking about his acquaintances, and con-
demning them; whose tongue is always
running about nonsense; who thinks he is
the greatest man in the neighborhood, and
yet whom every one despises and shuns.
We say never marry a fellow with all or
any of these qualifications, no matter how
handsome he is, or how agreeable he can
make himself on occasions. He will make
a bad husband.—Waverly Magazine.


88		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Dear Editor:—According to your instructions
my First Counselor and myself visited the 
houses, and a[-]certained the number of chil-
dren between the ages of four and ten to be
one hundred and four.
	We held our First Primary Meeting on 
Thursday; the 24th inst., at the school house;
there were fifty-two names enrolled, viz.
twenty-five girls and twenty-seven boys, and 
we expect more.
	Bishop Wm. Price met with us; we opened
our meeting by singing and prayer, after which
I asked the children some questions, and if
they remembered what Sister Zina taught
them; which I found they did.
	Bishop Price then talked to them a while;
among other things he told them they must
be orderly and obedient. I then asked them to
rise and thank the Bishop for what he had
said, which they did by bowing and saying
"Thank you, sir." I then appointed a little
boy as monitor for the boys' side, and a little
girl likewise to the girls.
	Sister M. A. Till spoke a few words, by re-
quest; Counselor Lucy Taylor followed. After
which I appointed the meetings for Saturdays,
at 3 o'clock p. m. precisely. Closed by singing
"Gleaners in the harvest field," and Lucy
Taylor dismissed by prayer.
	The names of the officers are as follows:

	Sarah Roberts, President.
	Lucy Taylor,			} Counselors,
	Mary Ann Gardner,	}
	M. A. Till, Secretary,
	Maggie Higginson, Ass't Sec'y.
		Very respectfully,
				SARAH ROBERTS, President.
						M. A. TILL, Secretary.
	Go[-]hen, Oct. 20, 1878.


THE SIXTH Annual Congress of the Asso-
ciation for the advancement of women was
held in Providence, R. I., Oct. 9 and 10,
Mrs. Kate M. Doggett, of Chicago, presid-
ing, "charming her audience by her genial
yet dignified manner." There were present
many noted workers in woman's pregres-
sion. There were both day and evening
sessions, and papers were read from cele-
brated writers and thinkers on popular sub-
jects of interest, and time given to discuss-
ing their merits. The notices we have
seen of this Congress agree in pronouncing
it a great success.


[Column 1]
John Taylor, Pres't.	Wm. Jennings. Vice-pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time pu[-]chase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders o
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.

New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878,

AN Immense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,
just recieved from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S

MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 3]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Prushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards. & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S

	Delivery Wagonds will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

