VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1879.	No. 23.﻿


[For the EXPONENT.
		AFTER LONG YEARS.

Impromptu lines sugges[-]ed on unexpectedly meeting a friend
			after a lapse of twenty two years.

After long years over time’s shifting sands
	Of strivings, of conflicts, and care,
When leaving behind us youth’s sunny lands,
	That once looked so golden and fair,
And th’ bright stream of life merges into the tide
	That is nearing eternity’s sea,
Whose waters no longer sparkling glide
	Through vales where it sported with glee.

Like a rift in a cloud-darkened sky,
	Gleaming down on chill winter’s snow,
Is the clasp of a hand, or glance of an eye,
	From dear ones of long, long ago.
Old years roll back like the vesture of day,
	We’re carried on swift wings of thought;
Bright scenes, fair faces, long hidden away,
	Well up from the depths of the heart,

Invisible powers sweep over the soul,
	Like	glory that heralds the dawn,
Bearing glad visions of beauty untold,
	From out the long years that are gone;
Households deserted are peopled again,
	We mingle with them as of yore;
Sweet voices blending in thrilling refrain
	Come back from the “Evergreen Shore.”

Welcome the power that after long years
	Cements broken links in time’s chain;
Helps us to see, through the rainbow of tears,
	Restored to the ranks of the slain,
Heroes who battled for freedom and truth,
	Daring dangers, righting foul wrong,
Now all clothed anew, in eternal youth,
	Shout anthems of Freedom’s glad song.

Magical choir, reaching down through the years,
	And up through the heavens above,
Like a wind-driven wave rounding the spheres,
	Key-note of our Father’s great love.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 16, 1879.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
		A LESSON TO MOTHERS.

	To those who are permitted to live the
allotted time of man upon the earth, to live
to a good old age, life seems but a passing
dream; in speaking of their childhood they
often say, "It seems but yesterday." Very
little can be accomplished by those who 
make the best use they can of their time.
Scenes change so quickly, duties and cares
crowd upon us, so much to do and to think
of, that to a reflecting mind there is no
time for superfluities. If we would make
our record one of usefulness and honor here,
and of glory and exaltation hereafter, we
must make every hour count, we must not waste our time upon things wherein there
is no profit. We shonld strive to store up
knowledge and to lay up such treasures as
will not fade.
	Some will spend their time, means and 
principal thoughts in cooking, cleaning and 
adorning their houses and persons, to the 
neglect of their own minds and the minds
of their children. If you ask these persons
about any of the current items of the day,
they do not understand you. I admit that
it is right and proper, nay, more, it is our 
duty to make our homes pleasant and at-
tractive; every Latter-day Saint will do 
that, every mother will aim to make her
home the best place on earth to her loved
ones; It is her duty also to provide suitable
clothing for them, and to arrange it in the

[Column 2]
best, most comfortable and tasteful way
with the means she has at her command,
but she has no right, it is not her duty to 
waste her precious time, or wear out her
body in putting on so much useless, yea,
worse than useless trimming, causing so
much labor and wasting so much time in
washing and ironing. Many a young
mother has been permanently injured by
this folly at the sewing machine. I think
it is wrong, it is not pleasing in the sight
of the Lord; far better would it be for us
who profess to be above the follies of the 
world to spend our time in trying to adorn
and cultivate our minds and the minds of
those who are given to us of the Lord.
	There is enough of sorrow and suffering
for all to bear who live out their days on
this earth, and mothers should try to fortify
the minds of their children wtth good and
true principles, and unwavering faith in
God under all circumstances. This will
make them brave and strong, this will con-
stitute men and women of character; we
do not want "paper men." We should
teach our children correct ideas of life, and
with patience and gentleness teach them to 
labor and to endure some of the fatigues
and cares of older life. Do not, dear sister,
give your beloved and carefully nurtured
daughter to some one for a wife and mother
who, though she may be educated and ac-
complished in branches taught in school,
yet knows nothing of the more important
duties of life, or the responsibility she has
assumed. There is sorrow and vexation in 
store for her, poor girl; the education of
her hands has been neglected. This will
apply to boys too. No father should send
his son out to fight the battle of life with-
out giving him a knowledge of getting a 
living, which cannot slip away from him;
no matter how much property he may have,
teach him to labor.
	We should try to arrange all that we do
so as to accomplish the most and best good.
If we can give our children good school
education, that is good, but let not this ex-
clude other practical and useful knowledge.
If we can afford to have good comfortable
houses and costly apparel without getting
into debt, that is good too, yet let not that
suffice; better to have a soul adorned with
love, meekness, patience, honesty, truth
and thankfulness, than all the glory and 
riches of the whole world, for these will
fade, but the beauty and riches of the soul
will reach beyond the grave.
	We should try to cultivate in the minds
of our children a love for the beautiful in 
nature, in the grand old mountains around
our homes, a love for music and good read-
ing, and for everything that is noble and
true and that will refine and exalt their 
ideas. It needs not wealth to attain these
things; there can be refinement and peace
in the humblest cottage. I once knew a 
family who lived in a dirt-roofed log cabin,
so brown and bare outside that no spear of
grass, or even a weed grew around it, only
a green field not far away could be seen, to 
save the mark and relieve the eye. Inside
some of our best papers and books could be
seen, a few choice flowers stood in the win-
dow, every little arrangement in the house,
though of the simplest kind, betokened

[Column 3]
neatness and taste; the boys would bring
out their little instruments of music in the 
evening, and there was "love at home."
There was a spirit of improvement. I have
watched the boys from that home; they 
are now making a mark in this kingdom,
putting their shoulders to the wheel and 
trying and expecting to do their part in the 
redemption of Zion. When father and 
mother co-operate together to make home
pleasant, and reach after improvement, it
is not hard for children to follow.
							ANNIE N.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN'S RIGHTS IN JAPAN.—A wo-
man's rights d[-]monstration has been made
by a lady in the Southern Province, who 
protests against paying taxes unless she is
allowed the privilege of voting. Her let-
ter which is pertinent and logical even in 
Japanese estimation, has been referred by
local authorities to the central government
and awaits decision at the capital.—EX.
	ON the outside of the April number of 
the "Womah's Suffrage Journal" published
in Manchester, Miss Lydia E. Becker,
editor, is an earnest entreaty to the women
of England.
	VOTE! vote! vote!—Women Ratepayers
are reminded that Elections of poor-Law
Guardians, Members of Local Boards,
Church wardens, Overseers, Auditors and 
other Officials take place during April.
Vestry meetings for the Elections of 
Church wardens usually take place on the 
Tuesday in Easter week. Women Rate-
payers have the right to attend and vote in 
all local elections, and they are earnestly
exhorted to use the suffrage, which the 
law confers upon them. Elections for 
Guardians and Members of Local Boards
are conducted by means of voting papers,
which are left at the houses of the Rate-
payers, and are called for before the election.
Women ratepayers should see that their
papers are duly filled up and signed ready
to be given up when called for, and in case
of failure to collect the papers they should 
themselves forward them to the proper
officer, who is bound to notify by public ad-
vertisement the time and place when he
will receive papers which have not been 
called for.
	It is of the utmost consequence that wo-
men should exercise their votes on every
lawful occasson.
	Dorcas, drawing-room, and other meetings
have been held in various parts of England
to awaken an interest and prepare Parlia-
mentary petitions for the member Hon. Mr.
Courtney in support of his resolution. The
question was submitted to the House in
March under new conditions, and in a 
slightly altered form. This question was a 
resolution offering the principle once laid
down by Lord Beaconsfield that it is anoma-
lous that the Parliamentary franchise at-
tached to a household or property qualifica-
tion when possessed by a woman should
not be exercised, though in all local elec-
tions, when similarly qualified she exerci-
ses this right; and that this anomaly is in[-]
jurious to the best interests of the country.


232		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

		HEBER CITY, WASATCH Co.,
						Feb. 10, 1879.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	We rejoice that you with Sister Williams
have been back East as our Delegate to
plead our cause, knowing the intense inter-
est you feel in the great work we are en-
gaged in. We take pleasure in represent-
ing the Relief Society of Heber City. Our
President meets with us once a month, giv-
ing us instructions and showing us our du
ties as members. She has had a bin for
storing wheat put in the Relief Society
Hall. The teachers visit once a month,
and there are a number of sisters who
attend meetings faithfully and are very en-
ergetic; more have recently come forward
to have their names enrolled, and a good
spirit prevails in our meetings.
	Relief Society Quarterly Report from
Nov. 2, 1878, to Feb. 1, 1879.

Teachers..........................................23
Members.........................................30
Donations received...................$8 28
Disbursed to the needy............  3 25

		Yours very respectfully,
			MARGARET MUIR, President,
			ELLEN LEE, Secretary.

	CHESTER, SANPETE Co., FEB. 7, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters of Chester Ward were organ-
ized into a Relief Society by our Bishop
and counselors. We held our first meeting
Jan. 29, 1878; number of names enrolled
thirteen. We feel very small, but we know
that God sometimes takes small means to
accomplish great things. I will not say
that Chester is a small place, on the contrary
it is a very large one with but few people
in it. We are considerably scattered, our
husbands being farmers, yet notwithstand-
ing the disadvantages under which we are
laboring at present, we are striving to assist
in the great work of the latter days. We
are taking the EXPONENT in the Society,
and as we have not yet become eloquent
speakers ourselves, we give much of the
time in our meetings to hearing valuable
lessons from its pages. We send you the
report of our first year, ending Jan. 29,
1879.
Total amount of cash and sundries raised
	by donations..............................$22 28
Disbursements in cash:
Manti Temple.....................................    3 00
EXPONENT..........................................    2 00
Stationery...........................................     1 92
Emigration Fund................................        25
								———
	Total						   7 17
Balance cash, etc., on hand.............   15 11
Wheat stored, 24 ¼ bu.

	Yours sisters &c.,
				S. E. COWLES, Pres't,
				E. E. ALLRED, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Report of Beaver Relief Society from
Aug. 31, 1878, to Feb. 28, 1879:
Amount in Treasury Aug 31..............$105 30
Receipts to Feb.28,.............................  214 28
								————
	Total						 319 52
Amount disbursed during 6 months 286 87
In Treasury..........................................    32 65
Wheat stored, 193 ½ bu.
Members enrolled, 116.
	The Society is in a thriving condition;
meeting are well attended, and a lively

[Column 2]
interest is manifested in all that pertains to
the great latter-day work.
	With an earnest desire for the success of
the EXPONENT and the welfare of Zion, we
remain your sisters in the covenant,

	RUTH W. TYLER, President,
	ELIZA W. HAWKINS,	} Counselors.
	ANN LEVIE,			}
	MARY E. ASHWORTH, Secretary.

			PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co.,
						April 1, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Report of Y. L. M. I. A. of Paris, 1st
Ward. Our Association, formerly compris-
ing most of the young ladies of the place,
has been re-organized, and two associations
formed, one in each ward. The Association
of the 1st Ward has been re-organized now
about four months. We are progressing
finely; have started a little paper, called
"The Young Ladies' Advocate," Miss Cad-
die Rich, editor, Mrs. Ella Rich, assistant
editor, and Mrs. Mary A. Horne, local re-
porter. It is written monthly, and the
girls contribute freely. We also have a 
Temple fund started, donating five cents, or 
more. We have made a quilt worth six
dollars, and intend to give the means to 
the Temple. We hold conjoint meetings
once a month, in which a lively interest is
taken. Our President, Mrs. Alice M. Rich,
with her counselors, Miss Caddie Rich and
Mrs. Mary A. Horne, are enterprising and 
alive to their duties, and all seem to realize
what a great work they are engaged in, and 
how diligently they can perform their part.
	Our spring here is earlier than usual: the
weather is pleasant, and the farmers are
very busy putting in their crops, looking
forward to another bountiful harvest.
	Trusting that we as an Association will
ever be found in the path of duty, and that
our Heavenly Father will continually bless
us and the remainder of our sisters with a
spirit of self-improvement, is the prayer of
your sister in the Gospel,
			ELLA A. RICH, Secretary.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE, March 28, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The First Ward of Paris Relief Society
was organized Feb. 19, 1878, when the fol-
lowing officers were elected.

	Maria Rich, President.
	Elizabeth Collins,	} Counselors.
	Eliza Rich,		}

	Alice M. Rich, Secretary.
	Caddie Rich, Assistant Secretary.
	Nora Spencer, Treasurer.

	There are fifty-two officers and members
enrolled. We hold our meetings the first
Thursday in each month; average attend-
ance, twenty-five.

ANNUAL REPORT.

Amount of property.......................$80 50
Donated...........................................  37 34
For Logan Temple...........................  36 62
Work done by members................. 18 50
Cash on hand...................................   8 00
Dividend received on Co-op stock.   2 00

Disbursements:
To Logan Temple............................  47 34
Linen, calico, etc.............................     9 55
WOMAN'S EXPONENT...................     1 00
Amount on hand........................... 125 07
Wheat on hand, 79 bu.

	We are pleased to state that we have had
a very pleasant winter, there being scarcely

[Column 3]
any sickness, and we have none among us
but who are able to support themselves, as
you will see by the above report. Every
member of the Society seems ready and
willing to do all the work they can in this
great work in which we are engaged. Also
wish to state that Mrs. A. M. Rich having
resigned her office as Secretary some time
ago, Caddie Rich was elected in her stead,
and Miss Phebe Rich assistant. The EX-
PONENT is ever a welcome guest in our
midst, and we fully realize the benefits de-
rived from the perusal of its pages.
		Very respectfully,

				MARIA RICH, President.
				CADDIE RICH, Secretary.

	EAST MILL CREEK, April 11, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of East Mill Creek
Ward was organized March 30, 1879, by
President Mary A. Freeze and her counsel-
or, Sister Clara Young Conrad. The officers
elected were:

	Sarah A. Skidmore, President.

	Eudora V. Ranck,		} Counselors.
	Barbara M. Moses,	}

	Harriet S. Stillman, Secretary.
	Delia B. Neff, Assistant Secretary.
	Lydia Osguthorpe. Treasurer,
	Ann E. Neff, Superintendent.

	There are forty-four names enrolled in
this Association. Meetings are held once
in two weeks on Sunday evening, at seven
o'clock, with a general attendance.
	Respectfully,

			HARRIET S. STILLMAN.


[For the EXPONENT.
	THE BEAUTIES OF NATURE.

	We look around us, and on every hand
we behold the beauties of Nature. How
exceedingly refreshing everything looks.
The trees, flowers, shrubs and plants, each
arrayed in its own peculiar coloring, make
up a variety pleasing to the eye. How
wonderful! each specie of plant is distinct,
ever producing the same kind. The fruit
that grows, how beautiful to the eye and
pleasing and delicious to the taste. The
perfume of the lovely flowers enhance
their charms, and with the singing of the
birds tells us that "Spring is here," the
happiest time of all the year; perhaps this
is partly owing to the contrast with the
leafless months that we have just passed
through. When spring comes arrayed in 
beauty we love her cheering influence; not
only human beings, but every living crea-
ture rejoices in the warmth of the sun's
bright rays. Man cannot make anything to
compare with the handiwork of Nature, for
the One who created the world created
man, and our knowledge is still finite, and
it is He, our Father in Heaven, we should
ever thank for every good thing we enjoy—
for the beauties of Nature, and for sight to 
see the loveliness thereof, and hearing, to
hear the music of Nature's voices.
						EVADNE.
	St. George.


BAYARD Taylor's body lay at Cedarcroft,
Pa. until 11 o'clock, Saturday morning, and
was then followed to Longwood cemetery
by great numbers of prominent persons
from all parts of the country. The cere-
monies attending the interment were im-
pressive and imposing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			TRUTH.

There is beauty and grace in many a fa[-]e
	’Neath a bonnet tattered and torn;
There is fragrant perfume in the wild rose bloom,
	On the summer breezes borne

And thoughts, not a few, that are noble and tru[-]
	In many a bosom untaught;
And hearts there are some by sorrow bowed down
	That are studded with gems of thought.

No darkness can dim the glistening gem
	That is culled from the depths of the sea;
And thus doth truth shine with a radiance divine;
	Though hid in the depths it may be.
April 12, 1879.                        ANONYMOUS.


[For the EXPONENT.
		FACES IN THE FIRE.

	Memory's tide is backward pressing,
		As I sit before the fire,
	In an easy chair reclining;
		And the glowing flames rise higher.

	And within the rosy furnace
		Faces come and faces go—
	Friends, companions of my childhood,
		Of the long, long time ago.

	As they quickly come and vanish,
		I remember all full well—
	There is little toddling Alice,
		And our little rosy Nell.

	Both are now above in heaven,
		But their faces in the fire
	Seem to beckon my soul onward
		To a something, nobler, higher.

	Where all mortals who were faithful
		In their earthly mission here,
	Dwell in love and light eternal,
		And no pain or sorrow fear.

	Yes, my babes, for your sweet sakes
		I will bear my cross along,
	And will meet you in "the morning,"
		With a pure and happy song.

Salt Lake City.					ELINOR ELMWOOD.


[For the EXPONENT.
			WHAT I SAW.

	As I was walking the streets one day I 
saw a sight, a striking sight! It was a poor
old man stooped and gray. But oh! what a 
pitiable looking object! He was so intoxi-
cated that as he walked along the sidewalk
he swerved from side to side, and it was all
he could do to keep his balance. I expect
if his history was known, he is a father and
a grandfather, and most likely was a man
of influence.
	Oh! what an example to set before the 
rising generation! This sight I shall never
forget! As he seemed to be getting worse,
there came a buoyant youth, just from his
day's work, tripping along. He at first past
the man to be pitied, then turned suddenly
around, and went back to where the man
was tottering ready to fall. He kindly of-
fered him his arm, but the old man was too
far overcome to know what the kind heart-
ed boy wanted of him, so the boy took the
aged hand and put it on his arm, and after
a good deal of persuasion he got him to 
trudge along with him, most likely to his
home, yes a most wretched place, with a 
broken-hearted wife and hungry children.
I shall never forget this kind act of that
noble young man. How proud a mother
ought to be when her sons try to be kind
to the aged. But oh! strange, yes passing
strange, that God's creatures here below,
cannot learn from such lessons to shun the 
poison that causes many a poor mother's 
heart to throb with sorrow, and which
hastens loving wives to an untimely grave.
Their hearts were full of pain with the
thoughts of one that they had loved, and


pictured a happy life with, through time,
and all eternity, to go down to a drunkard's
grave, and their children to be taunted
with his disgraceful name. His name
might have been remembered for good, if
he had taken the right course. His happy
household has beer scattered and broken.
Disgrace has come where once was peace,
joy, love, and comfort. Where is his hap-
py innocence?
	The youth takes a glass, and then follows
one glass after another, not once thinking
what the result will be until he ruins him-
self body and soul, his home and all that
makes life pleasant and agreeable.
	Boys, you know not what dangerous
ground you are treading on. If I had a 
voice like the thunder and as keen as the
lightning to pierce every heart to the core
I would say, "touch not, taste not," for how
can men expect to enjoy the spirit of God,
and have his blessings to guide and direct
them, if they give themselves up to such a 
debasing habit. Why cannot the boys take
warning before it is too late?
	Not one of the young ladies should
choose a husband that had contracted any
such habit, or that would be likely to dis-
grace his name in such a degrading way.
					JULIA SPENCER.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT
				BABIES.

	In reading the daily newspapers and pe-
rusing the annals of crime, we find that in-
fanticide, with its kindred evils, is increas-
ing to an alarming extent both in the Old
and New World, and until the causes which
produce these terrible results are removed,
I fear there is little hope for a better state
of things. O virtue! chastity! thou crown-
ing beauty and glory of woman, why have
so many of earth's fair daughters suffered
themselves to be robbed of thee? Deeply
is the loss to be deplored. What is life
without virtue and honor? When the first
step is taken, who can tell where it will
stop? leading on from bad to worse, until
the victim is left to commit the most hein-
ous and revolting crimes, and the once
happy and confiding young girl becomes
guilty of that which is too dreadful to name
—the shedding of innocent blood. Oh!
horror of horrors! Only to think that a 
woman could ever become so degraded, so
lost to every feeling of a mother, as to take
the life of the innocent, helpless creature
whom she herself has brought into the
world, and whose very helplessness should
insure it against injury, even in its mildest
form. This is too revolting to think of, and
yet, who shall condemn? Who among the 
multitude (so clamorous and indignant)
shall cast the first stone? "He who is with-
out sin," the Savior said. This is indeed
just, for who is there that is capable of sit-
ting in judgment on those who have been
cruelly betrayed and abandoned, when they
know not the impassioned emotions of the
trusting heart, nor the circumstances which
have driven the victim to desperation.
	Besides these extreme cases of violence,
there are others of wilful neglect. We
read of infants and young children being
left alone in a house, while parents are out
visiting, who on their return found the
house in ashes and the children perished.
And coming nearer home, even to our own
little city of St. George, we find one or two
cases where mothers are scarcely worthy of
that sweet and holy name. But then we
should forbear to censure too severely, as
theory is much easier than practice, and we

[Column 2]
all know better; though I maintain that a
woman's first duty is to watch over those
helpless little treasures whom God has en-
trusted to her care. Children are indeed a
comfort and a blessing. What can exceed
the joy of the honorable wife when she
takes her new-born babe in her arms? Her
whole heart goes out to the little creature,
and she feels amply repaid for all her suf-
fering; how interestedly she watches every
movement, through the different stages of 
its infancy; how eagerly she listens for the
first word from its lips, and watches for its
first timid step, and until they increase to
the almost incessant prattle of the tongue
and the busy patter of the little feet. Is
there anything sweeter, dearer, more inter-
esting or lovable than a sweet, clean, inno-
cent babe? Methinks the heart of every
true mother will answer, Nothing. Is there
anything that can replace or for which we
would exchange them? No! emphatically
NO! Of course there are exceptions to this
as to all general rules; there are some
whom trifling circumstances will cause to
yield up their offspring to the care of stran-
gers, though, thank the Lord, in our com-
munity these cases are few and far between.
Then let us try to raise our little ones so
that they will be a credit to us and the
kingdom of God when they arrive at ma-
turity. Thus our greatest earthly blessings
will certainly prove to be our babies, the 
proverbial aversion of bachelors and old
maids, and their unchangeable opinions to
the contrary notwithstanding.

	St. George.					KATE.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	The evening of Wednesday April 9, 1879.
was one of interest to those who were in-
vited to celebrate the anniversary of Mrs.
M. A. Smoot's birthday. The lady was
seventy years of age, but is a hale, hearty,
fine-looking woman yet. The young girls
of the family took the greatest pleasure in
surprising "Ma" and the guests participat-
ed in the general enjoyment. A large din-
ner was given in the afternoon, and num-
erous presents betokened the love and
affection bestowed on Sister Smoot. The
evening was passed in singing, reading and
conversation.  The B. Y. Academy Choir
rendered one or two hymns in a spirited
way.
	These occasions would make the eyes of
a stranger to our customs open with aston-
ishment, and his heart warm to that pure
sentiment felt and exhibited in our polyga-
mous families. Ma Smoot is a noble good
woman and worthy of all her family's trib-
utes. May Heaven lengthen out her life.
						SUSA.


THE towns of Berkshire and Georgia in
Franklin County, Vermont, have elected
women to the office of town clerk. Miss
Leavens of Berkshire is a daughter of the
former town clerk, and, having assisted
her father a great deal in the office, she is
entirely competent to discharge its duties.
Mrs. Post of Georgia is the widow of the 
late town clerk and is well qualified to fill
the office. She was also chosen treasurer.
The Randolph town-meeting was v[-]sited by
quite a number of young ladies in attend-
ance upon the State Normal school there,
and they seemed much interested in the
proceedings. No sooner was their pres-
ence observed then the men took off their
hats, removed their pipes and maintained
the best of order. Thus the sure growth is
made.—Ex.


234		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN.

	"He that would live clear of envy must lay
his finger on his mouth, and keep his hand out
of the ink-pot."—LE ESTRANGE.

	This was applied to men in that day, but it
will certainly apply to women equally as well.
This is woman's era, and of course she will be
criticized, censured, sneered at, even by her
own sex. After all it is expected--women pos-
sessing more humility than men, more delicacy
of nature and true refinement of soul, more
spirituality in fact, will scarcely stoop to perse-
cution. Yet even this we find to be the case;
cruel as the grave. Pope said,

		"The world with calumny abounds,
		The whitest virtue slander wounds."

	It is well that persons of greatness of soul
possess the peculiar faculty, or tact, to judge of
those with whom they come in contact, other-
wise they might be prejudiced against the in-
nocent and good by evil-designing people.
	It seems to have been peculiarly the fate of
Mormons to be slandered, but until recently it
was confined to men mostly, Mormon women
being considered too low, degraded and igno-
rant, otherwise they certainly would not live
in plural marriage.
	Now a change has come. The franchise has
been given to Mormon women, they have been
heard from, and as they will not give up the
principles of their religion, which they know 
to be elevating and pure, they must needs be
scandalized. And because a few noble-souled
ladies who are working for universal good, as
we understand it, have dared to allow Mormon
women to come into their councils, and sit on
a public platform with them, a great many ex-
planations must be made for them, lest the
National Woman Suffrage Association should
be understood as endorsing Polygamy.
	After the women of Utah have held the
ballot ten years, and with the best possible re-
sults, they are to have no representation. "Tell
it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of
Askelon," that Mormon women vote, or have
any education, or culture. Oh, no, don't
come near a Mormon woman, she's a plural
wife, or at any rate believes in it, and "Polyga-
my degrades womanhood." "Where Polyga-
my exists all women are essentially degraded."
Well, we are very sorry for these "wise wo-
men of Gotham," who are at sea in a bowl
without any ballast—who as[-]ert that Polyga-
my is not better than prostitution, but infin-
itely worse in its effects upon society, how-
ever it may be in individual cases. They
pity Mormon women fanatics just as they do
the Hindoo women. Well, there's every reason
to pity them, for in their midst all sorts of
abominations abound, and they have no reme-
dy. The cries of the women who have been
cruelly and wantonly betrayed and abandoned,

[Column 2]
with the blood of their murdered offspring,
has pierced the throne of the Eternal, and ere
long He will avenge their wrongs.
	We affirm just as strongly as our opponent
that instead of degrading, plural marriage ele-
vates woman; we and hundreds of others have
proven it by practical experience. Mother-
hood exalts woman; it is her crowning glory;
and in no other marriage covenant is there
such perfect freedom for woman to pursue any
pursuit or avocation she may choose, as where
there are more wives. To be sure, if she de-
pends entirely upon her husband to direct her
every thought and action, she would be un-
happy, but it gives women the highest oppor-
tunities for self-development, exercise of judg-
ment, and arouses latent faculties, making
them more truly cultivated in the actual reali-
ties of life, more independent in thought and 
mind, noble and unselfish. The women of
Utah have the ballot still, and intend to make
good use of it, and educate the rising gen-
eration and those who come from foreign
lands every year to a higher and nobler stand-
ard of thought, feeling and action than to per-
secute any people because of their religious
faith. In Zion will the standard of welcome
be unfurled to all nations, and women as well
as men will help to raise this standard, for the
work is one of mutual benefit to both, and 
many honest and true souls will come gladly;
and the Saints can afford to wait until the 
Lord's time to redeem Zion, working and watch-
ing the while, to do good to all, and "especially
those of the household of faith." [handwritten] E. B. Well


HOME AFFAIRS.

	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt will open a class in
Obstetrics and the training of nurses, on Mon-
day, 5th inst., to continue Mondays and Thurs-
days for six months, at her office in the Old
Constitution Buildings.
	DURING THE last month Pres. E. R. Snow
has organized Primary Associations in the 1st,
2d, 12th, 13th and 20th wards of this city. Also
re-organized the Young Ladies' M. I. A. of the
2d Ward. 
	AT THE Territorial Fair which will be held
October next, it is expected there will be
great many prizes distributed to those who pro-
duce the best articles of home manufacture.
Ladies, if you wish to work for this, do your
best in useful, ornamental, or elegant work;
with all kinds of materials used in such articles.

	AT THE General Meeting of the sisters in
the Fourteenth Ward, Saturday, April 26, the
officers of the Silk Association of Salt Lake
Co. were sustained in their positions, and Bro.
Paul A. Schettler was elected as a committee
to judge of the quality of cocoons. The officers
of Relief Society agreed to act as committees
to see that all the mulberry leaves in their vi-
cinity were utilized to the best advantage.
	THE THEATRE has been rendered attractive
of late by the H. M. S. Pinafore, which has
been performed several times, the performance
being entir[-]ly composed of home talent, di-
rected by Prof. Careless. He certainly deserves
all the e[-]comiums he has received. Mrs.
Sigel, Miss White, Miss Olsen, Miss Sanders,
and several of the gentlemen also played and 
sang remarkable well Although the opera
was well performed in every part, so every-
body says; "and what everybody says must be
true.
	"A MESSENGER from Jarvis Section" was
quite sensational, but very funny. "Uncle
Daniel" was really a true Yankee in style and
in tone, and little "Clip" acted her part per-
fectly.


WE HAD the honor of attending a pleasant
entertainment on Thursday last, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Mary Emma Van Schooven.
The hostess had prepared a delicious repast for
her guests, the occasion being the close of the
term of a class in Obstetrics taught by Dr. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, a young and rising physician,
a favorite with her students it would seem,
who all united in presenting her with an ele-
gant pencil and cuff-pins of gold and jet. Dr.
Pratt, though taken by surprise, replied grace-
fully, expressing her good feelings for all the
class, and her ardent desire to aid them and to
honor the profession in which she had enlisted
	IN COMPANY with Pres. E. R. Snow we at-
tended the Annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Co., in Farmington, April 17.
The reports from branch societies were very
satisfactory, and everything was conducted in
an orderly manner, Mrs. S. I. Holmes presid-
ing. Elder Anson Call was present and made
some remarks so favorable to the woman ques-
tion that we shall take pains to publish them
with a full account of the meeting. The Presi-
dents of societies made excellent verbal reports.
Pres. E. R. Snow assisted Coun. Call and the
presidency of Relief Society in organizing a
branch Silk Association in Davis Co., Mrs. Do-
rinda Robinson, President; Nancy A. Clark
and Jane Smith, Counselors. A large majority
of the sisters enrolled their names as active
workers.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE SHALL be compelled to confine our col-
umns in future exclusively to Stake reports of
R. S and Y. L. M. I. A., except where the R.
S. Stakes have not been organized. These will
report as before.

	WE HAVE R. S. Reports from Samaria, Ma-
lad, Franklin, Hebron, Minersville, Kingston,
Lewiston and Ephraim; Primary Association
reports from Santaquin, 16th Ward S. L. City.
Letters from Santa Clara, St. George, Goshen
and other places, which we intend publishing.

	MASS MEETINGS have been held by the sis-
ters in nearly all the settlements great and
small in Utah Territory, to protest against the
Adti-Polygamy petitions, letters to Mrs.
Hayes, &c., and to defend one of the vital
principles of the Gospel, viz., Celestial Mar-
riage. It is impossible to publish them all. It
is specially gratifying to know that there is a
united feeling on this subject throughout the
entire Church. At Hyrum, Woodruff, Clark-
ston, Wallsburg, Midway, Tooele, these meet-
ings have all been spirited and interesting, and
the sisters in their respective localities have
either adopted the resolutions passed in Salt
Lake City or have drawn up resolutions corres-
ponding in every respect with the spirit and
sentiment therein expressed.

	WE PUBLISH in this issue an item on the
celebration of Mrs. M. A. Smoot's Surprise
Party on her birthday, and we would not wish
our dear friends, sisters and patrons to think
we were unmindful of any good sister's "Birth-
day Party," so will inform them we have in
our desk many such tributes, which we would
gladly publish,—Mrs. Louisa B Pratt's of
Beaver, Mrs. Sarah M. Peterson's of Ephraim,
Mrs. Martha J. Thomas' of Lehi. We will
mention in connection with this fact, we did
not give our readers any account of the party
held at our own house in honor of Sister E. A.
Whitney, well known to nearly all the Saints
from the days of Kirtland, nor to that of Mrs.
Zina D. Young, held at the residence of Mrs.
B. W. Smith, nor of Mrs. M. I. Horne, Presi-


dent of R. S. S. L. Stake of Zion, nor of Pres.
Rachel R. Grant or Elizabeth H. Goddard, and
many other good sisters, simply because it is
utterly impossible to mention all these things
unless we had a daily paper.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		235


A HUMBLE TRIBUTE,

TO THE MEMORY OF MRS. MARINDIA J.
CARLETON.

	Mrs. Marindia J. Carleton, wife of Mr. Geo.
H. Carleton, cashier of the Georgetown Na-
tional Bank, departed this life March 15, 1879,
at her residence in Georgetown, Mass. The
deceased was the beloved niece of Sister Vienna
Jacques of this city, and Mrs. Boynton of
Bountiful is the sister of Mrs. Carleton. Hav-
ing made her acquaintance, with that of her
worthy husband, on my recent mission to my
native State, Mass., and becoming conversant
with her blameless and holy life, I could not
do justice to my feelings did I not testify in
some public manner to her worth as a consis-
tent and devoted Latter-day Saint. Truly, in
her daily deportment as a wife, daughter, sis-
ter and frien[-], all the virtues and beatitudes
were exemp[--]led and shone pre-eminently.
	Moving in a circle of society that was inimi-
cal to her religious principles, she never faltered
or hesitated to declare her professed faith in
the restoration of the Gospel, when it was ex-
pedient and wise so to do. Nor in words only
did she manifest a vital interest in the great
latter-day work, but in her generosity freely
contributed to the varied interests of the king-
dom of God. To the Temple fund alone she
donated ten dollars monthly, preferring to lay
up treasures in heaven, rather than to expend
the means in undue personal adornment. The
Elders who were laboring in that portion of
the Lord's vineyard always received a hearty
welcome, and never departed without receiv-
ing something substantial to help them in
their mission. She ardently desired to gather
to Zion, and in her last letter to her Aunt Vi-
enna, dated Feb. 22, she expressed herself as
being strongly impressed of the nearness of the
great calamities that await the nation, and
hoped that she would be gathered out of Baby-
lon before the time came that "He that would
not take up his sword to fight against his
neighbor must needs fly to Zion for safety."
Truly has the Lord garnered the pure spirit of
Sister "Rinnie" as a choice jewel to the Zion
above, to mingle with the Saints of all ages
and there enjoy sweet rest until the time shall
arrive when Zion below shall be perfected and
prepared for the coming of the Lord.
	To the bereaved and loving husband, all who
have had the honor of his acquaintance will
sincerely condole in the great loss he has sus-
tained; and may he be soothed by the cher-
ished memory of the many virtues and beauti-
ful life of his deceased companion, and may
the recollection of his untiring devotedness for
her happiness be as a healing balm to assuage
the poignant grief of the present, and endeavor
to look forward to a happy reunion in the fu-
ture, in that peaceful realm where sorrow and
parting shall be known no more, is the sincere
desire of his well-wisher,
						GEORGE HAMLIN.
	Salt Lake City, April 13, 1879
	We have read the tribute dedicated to Mrs
Carleton in the "G[-]orgetown Advocate," and
will here quote one paragraph, attributed to
"a lady who had known her from childhood."
	"She was the b[-]st woman I ever knew. Gen-
tle, quiet, charitable, conscientious, generous
and kind. I would not exchange a single trait
in her character if I could." What a glorious
epitaph!


<let my="" saints="" appeal="" to="" thd="" highest="" court="" in-the="" land-="" ahd="" if="" they="" will="" not="" do="" them="" justice,="" then="" let="" to-="" their="" father="" in="" heaven,-="" and="" he="" hear="" come="" out="" with="" judg-="" ments="" upon="" those="" unworthy="" servants="" ‘whq.="" have="" the="" snt8="" inose="" unwortuy="" butvuuw="" "“.v,="" vethe'power="" saints'justice,="" tbbv="" ll="" not.="" tliey="" fluff="" w'he’nihod="" ldtd1="" i="" -ji="" .........-i.ij="" iy.—jilv.7v.-="" what="" it="" jar="" td="" measure="" armsvitlii="" tbeitriil="" god’of="" beaven.="" "we="" knwt’his="" principle="" is="" of="" god,="" we="" knew="" are="" firm="" cause="" troth,="" princi="" pies="" wo="" espoused.="" right,="" can="" no="" doubt="" p.3="" to,="" jesuit.="" may="" future,(as,="" done="" past)="" .="" pass="" through="" trials="" pereecutlpn3,="" try="" tis-,="" and;="" prove="" our="" faith.="" our:="" religion="" worth,="" vfilling="" tqdive="" for="" die.for="" itj-too,="" peed="" be.="" us.="" live="" up.="" the.="" plural="" piar-="" riage,="" teach,="" ,o‘ur="" ’="" daughters'="" as="" ipuro="" holy,="" revealed="" by!="" almighty,="" o'per-="" patuate="" tf="" noblpracofpeopleupoii-the'="" earth,="" that="" noble="" intelligent="" spirits,="" ‘have="" been="" hold="" reserve,="" eternal="" worlds="" forth="" thesq-last="" days="" take="" part="" great="" latter-day="" work,="" and.="" prepare="" a="" people="" coming="" ©f="" savior.="" glorious="" privilege="" receive="" parentage="" among="" saints,="" responsibility="" resting;="" on="" parents="" to.="" bring="" this="" rce.="" up,.iri="" principles="" rigfiteousnesahd="" truth="" bet="" an="" example="" worthy="" imitation'="" hotymahy="" us="" there="" thatrealfze="" light="" should.="" each="" one="" answer="" themselvesl="" lord="" heaven="" bless="" you="" health="" srengb,="" fco="" enable="" carry="" work="" so="" worthily="" engaged="" in,="" your="" valuable="" paper="" continue="" be,="" ever="" has.="" been,="" true="" exponent="" ;="" rthe="" feelings="" views="" women="" utah..="" remain="" over,="" yoar="" sister="" the'gospel.="" sarah="" mi:="" pomeroy.'="" mesa="" city,="" arizona,'="" feb;="" j41879.="" rt'-i---="" :="" 7="" ln="" parowan,="" feb.="" 12,="" 1879.="" editor="" exponent:="" feel="" duty="" our;="" yoices.be="" heard="" these="" eventful="" time3,="" when.="" satap-,="" labor-="" ing="" incessantly="" destroy="" kingdom="" understands="" his="" reign="" short,="" son="" man="" draweth="" nigh.="" opr="" enemies="" n’otlinderstand="" god="" ofheavqnhey="" fighting="" "against,="" angel="" jromdieaven="" shouldi="" declare="" unto="" them,="" wpuld="" think="" some="" eyil="" ,="" spirit="" had="" pcsseeelpn.of="" ,their="" senses.,="" how-="" rhe="" saying="" .that="" :‘darkness="" covers="" earth="" and,="" gross="" darkness="" minds,="" people'?,.="" ,-wo="" w.lsh="" lo.ndd="" .testimony="" thousands="" who="" pave="" already="" published="" same,="" :thafc="" la="" work;of="" lord,="" joseph="" smith="" was="" prophet,="" carrying="" wpifc="" began.="" marriage="" religion,="" defend="" every="" other="" faith="" -with="" latest="" breath.="" willing="" obey="" laws="" the,="" land,="" loye="" name="" washington,="" names="" framers="" declaration="" independence,="" born="" or.="" daughter="" ameri-="" ca="" loves="" freedom="" liberty.="" ourb.0.="" met="" the.lt.="" thursday="" present="" month,="" bister'read="" inter-="" view="" between="" pres.="" john="" taylof="" and'="" ilr.="" hoi-="" lister!,="" after="" which="" many="" .eistejs="" time="" would="" admit="" of,'="" spoke="" bore="" strong;="" testimonies="" work;="" celestial="" marriage,="" pplrlt="" manifested="" throughout="" interview="" by="" our,="" beloved="" pres-="" ident.="" pray="" be="" lengthened="" olrtb,="" accomplish="" all="" good="" heart="" desires,="" bold="" jn="" high="" esteem="" pur="" slaters="" who;="" are’="" filled="" splrltof="" ably="" represented="" capitol="" of.="" kation.="" blessed="" prospered="" undertake="" tn="" righteous-="" ness,="" also="" that.="" ,will="" of'-hla'="" faithful="" hand-malleus="" who.="" striving="" elevate="" mankind,="" fully="" appreciate="" qur;familles;and="" homes="" earnest="" desire="" bisl="" ore,.-="" emma="" s.="" smith,="" b.="" mary="" j.="" west,="" coun.<="" div="">[Column 1]
	CORRESPONDENCE.

		GOSHEN, APRIL 3, 1879.
TO MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS,
	Dear Sister,—I pen these few lines to ac-
quaint you with a sad accident which befell
two young men "brothers" Lorenzo and
Thomas Wilson of this place on the 1st, inst.
caused by a cave while working in an iron
mine in Tintic; which instantly took the life
of Thomas the younger aged 21 years, and
dislocated the hip of the other and otherwise
badly hurt him; hopes are entertained of his
recovery. He has a wife and two small chil-
dren. The funeral took place yesterday, when
great respect was shown. Several young peo-
ple preceded the corpse (walking in couples)
which four young men carried to the school
house, where appropriate and consoling re-
marks were made. Their mother Mrs. Mary
Dodds, who probably you recollect, is Coun-
selor in the R. S. here. She has experienced
similar distress before, but is a person full of
integrity and faith, and places her trust in
Jehovah upon whom she relies in her great
trouble.
	We held the first meeting in our new Relief
Society House on the 28, ult. Bishop Wm.
Price met with us and dedicated the house.
We are thankful to have it so far finished, and
hope yourself Sister E. R. Snow and other
sisters will favor us with a visit, for your good
teachings still abide in our memories and help
to stimulate us to diligence.
	Ever praying God to abundantly bless you,
is the desire of your sister in the Gospel of
Christ.
		MARY ANN TILL

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	When I read in the papers of the noble
stand taken by my sisters in their several
Mass Meetings throughout Utah, in defence
of the glorious principles of their religion; I
felt desirious of raising my voice with the rest
of my sisters in solemn protest against any
interference with our religious rights.
	We have no organization of Relief Society
as yet, so I thought I would pen a few of my
thoughts upon paper. I feel to say, thank
God that we have such noble advocates who
dare stand forth in the face of the whole world,
as it were, and proclaim that they were the
wives and daughters of good and great men
who practised patriarchal marriage, and pro-
test against any interference with their sacred
religious rights.
	Our enemies may scoff and sneer as much as
they please, at the idea of polygamy being
part of our religion, in their corrupt hearts
they cannot see any thing pure and noble in
this principle. They judge us by themselves,
which is not always a righteous judgement.
And the noble self sacrificing sisters who went
to Washington to plead the cause of the Saints
of God; I feel that they deserve the lasting
gratitude of their sisters in Utah, whether
their appeal has any effect or not, it does not
make any material difference to us, let the
result be with God. As the Lord has said
through his prophet Joseph Smith, "Let my
Saints appeal to the highest court in the land,
and if they will not do them justice, then let
them appeal to their Father in heaven, and
He will hear them and come out with judg-
ments upon those unworthy servants who
have the power to do the Saints j[-]stice but
will not. They will fi[-]d when it is too late
what it is to measure [-]rms with the Almighty
God of heaven. We know this principle is of
God, and we know if we are firm in the cause
of truth, and the principles we have espoused,

[Column 2]
we will come out right, we can have no doubt
as to the result. We may in the future,(as we
have done in the past) have to pass through
trials and persecutions, to try us and prove
our faith. What is our religion worth, if we
are not willing to live for it, and die for it too,
if need be.
	Let us live up to the principle of plural mar-
riage, and teach it to our daughters as pure
and holy, revealed by the Almighty, to per-
petuate a noble race of people upon the earth,
that the noble intelligent spirits, that have
been held in reserve, in the eternal worlds, to
come forth in these last days to take part in
the great Latter-day work, and to prepare a
people for the coming of the Savior. What a
glorious privilege to come forth and receive
parentage smong the Latter-day Saints, and
what a great responsibility is resting on the
parents to bring this noble r[-]ce up, in the
principles of righteousness and truth, and set
an example worthy of imitation. How many
of us is there that realize this in the light we
should. Let each one answer for themselves.
	May the Lord of heaven bless you with
health and strength, to enable you to carry on
the work that you are so worthily engaged in,
that your valuable paper may continue to be,
as it ever has been, a true EXPONENT of the
feelings and views of the women of Utah. I
remain as ever,
	Your sister in the Gospel.
		SARAH M. POMEROY.
MESA CITY, ARIZONA, FEB. 14, 1879. 

		PAROWAN, Feb. 12, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We feel it our duty to let our voices be heard
in these eventful times, when Satan is labor-
ing incessantly to destroy the kingdom of God,
for he understands that his reign is short, and
that the coming of the son of man draweth
nigh. Our enemies do not understand that it
is the God of heaven they are fighting against,
and if an angel from heaven should declare it
unto them, they would think some evil spirit
had possession of their senses. How true the
saying that  :darkness covers the earth and
gross darkness the minds of the people". We
wish to add our testimony to the thousands
who have already published the same, that
this is the work of the Lord, and that Joseph
Smith was a true Prophet, and that this People
are carrying out the work he began. Plural
Marriage is a part of our religion, and we will
defend it and every other principle of our faith
with our latest breath. We are willing to
obey the true laws of the land. We love the
name of Washington, and the names of the
framers of the Declaration of Independence,
and every true born son or daughter of Ameri-
ca loves Freedom and Liberty.
	Our R. S. met on the 1st Thursday of the
present month, and one sister read the inter-
view between Pres. John Taylor and Mr. Hol-
lister, after which as many of the sisters as
time would admit of, spoke and bore strong
testimonies of this work; of Celestial Marriage,
and of the true and noble spirit manifested
throughout the interview by our beloved Pres-
ident. And we pray that his days may be
lengthened out upon the earth, that be may
accomplish all the good his heart desires.
	We hold in high esteem our sisters who are
filled with the spirit of our religion, who have
so ably represented us in the Capitol of our
Nation. We pray that they may be blessed and
prospered in all they undertake in righteous-
ness, and also that God will bless all of his
faithful hand-maidens who are striving to
elevate and bless mankind, and may we all
fully appreciate our families and homes is the
earnest desire of your sisters,
		EMMA S. SMITH, Pres. R. S.
		MARY J. WEST, Coun.


236		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A GEM FOR EVERY MONTH.

	We have been reading recently in "The
American Home," some articles which were
very interesting on the subject which forms
the heading to this chapter, from which we
select the poems for each month. "The
American home is a pleasing weekly jour-
nal published in Chicago, and contains many
items of special interest, letters from
Washington, and articles on floriculture, in
fact a great variety of literary matter that
must certainly benefit those who read it
with care.

JANUARY.

By her who in this month is born
No gems but Garnets should be worn;
They will insure her constancy,
True friendship and fidelity.

	This is a mineral combination of silicates
of alumina, lime, iron and manganese, and
is colored in variety according to the differ-
ent proportions of the ingredients.

FEBRUARY.

The February born will find
Sincerity and and peace of mind,
Freedom from passion and from care,
If they say Amethyst will wear.

The Amethyst is a sub-species of quartz,
of a bluish violet color. The name is from
the Greek.

MARCH.

Who on this earth of ours their eyes
In March first open shall be wise;
In days of peril firm and brave,
And wear a Bloodstone to their grave.

April.

She who from April dates her years
Diamonds should wear, lest bitter tears,
For vain repentance flow; this stone
Emblem of innocence is known.

MAY.

Who first beholds the light of day
In Spring's sweet flowery month of May,
And wears an emerald all her life,
Shall be a loved and happy wife.

Emeralds are found in Grenada and Siberia.
It is a silicate of alumina and glucina, col-
ored with oxyd of chromium. Its color is
a decided rich green.
	Queen Victoria's state crown contains
3,093 precious stones, among which are
eleven Emeralds, 1,363 brilliant diamonds,
and 1,273 rose diamonds.

JUNE.

Who comes with summer to this earth,
And owes to June her day of birth,
With ring of Agate on her hand
Can health, wealth and long life command.

JULY.

The glowing Ruby should adorn
Those who in warm July are born;
Then will they be exempt and free
From love's doubts and anxiety.

	The glowing Ruby serves its patrons born
in July, and so rare is the real ruby it is
considered more precious than the diamond.

AUGUST.

The August born should
Wear a Sardonyx, or for thee
No conjugal felicity.
The August born without this stone,
'Tis said, must live unloved and lone.

This is a reddish yellow stone, nearly allied
to onyx, which is commonly a light brown
and white. This is the mineral used for
Cameos, the figure being cut in one layer,
the other layer funishing the back-ground.

SEPTEMBER.

A maiden born when autumn leaves
Are rustling in September's breeze

[Column 2]
A Sapphire on her brow should bind,
'Twill cure diseases of the mind.

The oxyd alumina comes in the form of
emery. This is granular. It appears also
in crystalline forms, and when clear, in all
its beauty and rarity, is the gem known as
sapphire, which is of various colors, though
it is only the blue crystals that generally
receive this name; a red crystal of it is call-
ed the Oriental Ruby, and a yellow one the
Oriental Topaz.

OCTOBER.

October's child is born for woe,
And life's vicissitudes must know;
But lay an opal on her breast,
And hope will lull those woes to rest

Opal is a silicious mineral. The color of
the Noble Opal, so highly prized as a gem,
is commonly milky, and has a play of bril-
liant but delicate internal reflections. In
the Fire Opal the reflections are a fire red
in color. This stone is esteemed unlucky,
but the absurd superstition cannot be traced
farther back than Scott's novel of "Anne of
Gernstien," in which the Baroness of Her-
mione of Arnheim wears one.

NOVEMBER.

	November's wail finds its solace in the
thought that,

Who first comes to this world of woe
With drear November's fog and snow,
Should prize the Topaz amber hue—
Emblem of friends and lovers true.

DECEMBER.

If cold December gave you birth,
The month of snow, and ice, and mirth,
Place on your hand a Turquoise blue;
Success will bless whate'er you do.

The Turquoise is found in Persia, and the
Shah is supposed to have in his possession
all the first gem[-], as he allows only those of
inferior quality to leave the country. In
consequence large Turquoises of good qual-
ity bring great prices.
	The "Home," in writing up the gems, has
given them in Analectic Chapters, num-
bered. The writer says in looking over a 
huge package of old newspapers her eye fell
upon a poem entitled "A Gem for every
Month."
	The diamond is perhaps the most inter-
esting of all gem subjects to most readers.
"Some people believe that the time is not
far distant when some chemist will discover
the secret of making the Diamond. And
why not? Lapis-lazuli, an azure blue min-
eral, from which are manufactured costly
vases and other ornamental articles, once
worth its weight in gold, can now be manu-
factured by the ton." The arrangement of
the stones of the Diamond constitutes the
difference between it and pure charcoal. In
Amsterdam there are 10,000 Jews directly,
or indirectly, dependent upon Diamond-
cutting as a trade, and they are poorly paid.
The three forms in which Diamonds are cut
are the table, the rose, and the brilliant. The
brilliant is a double pyramid, or cone, cut
off at the top by a large plane, or table, and
at the bottom by a small one called the col-
let. The Romans, taught by the Indians,
valued the diamond entirely on account of
its supernatural virtues, and Pliny says of
it, it baffles poisons, keeps off insanity, and
dispels vain fears. The Italians asserted
that it maintained concord between hus-
band and wife.
	Doubtless, jewels are best beheld in situs,
the situs, however, being neither the mine
nor the matrix, but in their proper place—
about some fair person, which gives you a
chance of admiring two beautiful things at
one time."


MISS ANTHONY'S SPEECH AT THE

WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

BREAD AND THE BALLOT.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony took the stand,
and made an earnest and logical speech,
the subject being the relations between
"Bread and the ballot."
	Miss Anthony said w[-]man wants bread
not the ballot. It was usual with people as
long as they got all they wanted to be con-
tent. She cited the British workingman,
sketched his rise and progress from the
time when he never made a ripple on po-
litical thought down to the present, when
the franchise gives him the power behind
the throne. She said disfranchisement is
always political degradation to any class
affected by it—disfranchisement and degra-
dation being in politics synonymous terms.
The English mechanic and laborer who were
ground down and robbed by capitalists fifty
years ago mobbed their best friend, John
Bright, when he advocated the ballot for
them at a public meeting. They did not
want the ballot, they wanted bread.
	So woman may think she does not want
the ballot. Miss Anthony then proceeded
to show that parties and politicians show no
respect to any person or sex, color or condi-
tion, unless such person has power, power
to vote, power to control results, power to
influence elections, power to give success or
defeat to parties, to elect such persons to
office or to defeat them. She quoted Eng-
lishwomen voting at municipal elections,
and how the instinct of self preservation
makes party leaders court the laboring vote
here as there. Human nature is selfish. It
looks out for its own interests. It shows
favor to those upon whom it depends for
success. It is not magnanimity and gener-
osity that controls parties or men. Politics
and Republics are ungrateful. Self-interest
is the great incentive that yields homage to
the power of the workingman.
	The Grand old Democratic Party was the
party that early advocated the rights of the
workingman, of the poor man. Jefferson
opposed property qualification. Some per-
sons here perhaps are old enough to remem-
ber when a man could not vote unless he
was worth a certain amount of property.
Old Ben Franklin ridiculed this doctrine.
He said here is a man who owns a donkey
worth say $250. Because he owns this
property to-day he can vote. To-morrow
the donkey dies, and he can not vote. Was
it the man or the donkey who voted?
[Laughter.]
	Martin Van Buren advocated the right
of the poor man to vote. It was this posi-
tion toward the poor man that gave the
Democratic party its power. The word
Democrat meant opposed to aristocracy.
The Irishman, ere he left the green island
shore, was a Democrat, prepared to vote
the Democratic ticket because he was poor
and that party favored him, and ever since
that time the Democratic party has stood
ready to give him whatever he asked for,
because he had a vote and could give them
power and place and party success by his
vote.
	He wanted ten hours work for a day's
labor, and the Legislature gave it to him.
He wanted eight hours' labor to make a 
day's work and the Legislature gave it to
him, and so everything he demanded has
been at his service because he had a vote.
These votes gave the Democracy power un-
til they abandoned their record and showed
they had no real sympathy with the poor
man and the oppressed, by smiling and


[Column 1]
bending to the Irishman and consenting to
the degradation and oppression of the black
man.
	Then Democracy lost its prestige. Then
the Republican party, founded on the ruins
of the Whig party, stepped forward to
power, and the Republican party won suc-
cess by emancipating the black man, by be-
coming his friend, by giving him the ballot,
and this party, so long as it is true to its
professions, will have the vote of and the
affection and sympathy of the negro to
whom it gave liberty and the ballot.
	But it was all selfishness. The Republi-
can party did not love the negro. It was
his aid they were after, his ballot, his vote
and aid to give them victory and power.
Emancipation was not adopted as long as it
could be safely put off.
	Her description of the great change
which had taken place in the condition of the
colored race, and how much colored voters
are respected and loved by politicians since
they have the ballot power in their hands,
was vivid. She added that the wool of a 
negro is just as curly, the lip just as thick,
and the heel just as long as it ever was.
Yet these politicians see more beauty and
symmetry in them somehow—and how
would it be with the women voters? Why
these candidates for political honors would
no doubt, just before elections, imagine
they saw the wings just cropping out on 
them! [Applause.] The old masters of the 
negro now often address them thus: "Fel-
low-citizens, I thank you for the honor con-
ferred on me," etc. With what terms of
deference and endearment they will address
the female voters in the future is left for
that happy millennium to develop. [Ap-
plause.]
	She argued to show how necessary it is 
for the laboring men in this country to com-
bine together to command the respect of
politicians and capitalists. By this means
can labor maintain its dignity and self-
respect. And how essential for women to
participate in this power and means of self-
protection and preservation.
	Miss Anthony referred to the number of
women supporting themselves in this coun-
try: 300,000 engaged in farm work, half a 
million in domestic service, women at work
in factories and other employments, some
two millions outside of home life. For
these women she asked the ballot, to pro-
tect them in their wages. The women are
ready to join any political party that comes
to the front in behalf of woman suffrage.
Workmen who have the ballot must be con-
sulted. Miss Anthony resurrected dead
and gone conventions, sketched the Cali-
fornia mining strike and the Ohio railroad
strike to show the power the ballot gives
the laboring man. She gave the instance
of Gov. Hicks, of California, who aided the
capitalists to employ Chinamen in the mines.
He was defeated when next he ran and an-
other Governor elected.
	On the other hand Gov. Hayes waited for
official notice of mobs of laborers and work-
ing men—until the row was over—and lo!
he is President. Shrewd party men and
managers grant the position of working-
men, or make believe they do.
	The Grangers had revolutionized the 
western railroad system, reduced the fare,
and benefitted themselves. They had bal-
lots and used them to help themselves.
	The ignorant Irishman, the uneducated
foreigner, the benighted and almost bar-
barous negro have each been enfranchised.
They have been enabled to protect them-
selves by the ballot, but women, the moth-
ers, the wives, the sisters of our native-born
citizens, cultured, educated, the peer of

[Column 2]
their brothers, husbands and fathers, are
left to pay taxes without a voice to consent
or refuse, left to the grinding selfishness of
capitalists, the sport or the caprice or whim
of parties and legislatures who make laws
that control or oppress them and for whose
complaints and petitions they have no time
or inclination to listen. Women have no
votes. They can therefore make no im-
pression upon parties. Are women working
15 hours for a day's work in a factory? They
will ask in vain for a 10 or 8 hours law for
themselves. They have no vote to compel
the party to aid them. She quoted a strike
of women in a Troy, N. Y., collar factory,
who, after holding out for six months, were
at last obliged to go to work at less wages
than they had when they stopped work,
clearly demonstrating that the lack of the
ballot had caused this great injury.
	Justice demands that woman should have
the right to say if her property be taxed or 
not.
	Woman wants bread not the ballot, but
give her the ballot and she will vote her-
self an opportunity to get her bread.
	Give her the ballot and she will then hold
her share of public offices. Then some
delicate woman will sit at the office desk
while the yawning six footer will go out to
labor as he should at some work to develop
his manhood and strength. Women then
will sell papers of pins and yards of tape
and the tin whistles. Women will keep
the books. Women will then be in partner-
ship, will carry on the business. Wives of
laboring men and mechanics will then own
half the money that the husband earns.
	And not only will they do this, but when
women vote then whiskey will close its
reign, then will righteous laws be passed,
vice and crime be largely eliminated, taxes
reduced, honesty and economy obtain in
public affairs and justice be administered to
all. Miss Anthony gave some startling
facts proving that woman's work for tem-
perance, without the ballot, had in reality
been productive of injury to the cause of
temperance and had thrown increased
power in the hands of the liquor dealers.
She showed woman working without the 
ballot had thus killed the Prohibitory law
in Massachusetts, Local Option in Indiana,
drawn insults upon the 18,000 women of
Chicago who had opposed Sunday liquor
selling, and in Minnesota had created a for-
midable society of the liquor men, who in
one year expended a million of dollars to
defeat woman's work.
	She took a vote of the audience as to wo-
man's need of the ballot for the protection
of her wages, and in order to do effective
temperance work, receiving in reply a
hearty "aye."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		237


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

	ST. CHARLES, IDAHO, APRIL 15, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In reading Elder Woodruff's Epistle to
the saints, I was very much pleased with
the spirit that it breathed. "Do right let
the consequence follow" brought forcibly
to my mind the narrative of the Jewish
Mother and her sons, as stated in the Tal-
mud, of which the following is an extract.
"During the terrible times which followed
the fall of the Holy City, Hannah and her
seven sons were cast into prison.
	According to their ages they were brought
before the tyrant conqueror, and command-
ed to pay homage to him and his gods "God
forbid" exclaimed the eldest lad, "that I
should bow to thy image. Our command-
ments say to us, 'I am the Lord thy God' to

[Column 2]
no other will I bow." He was immediately
led out to execution, and the same demand
was made of his brother, the second son.
"My brother bowed not" he answered "and
no more will I." "Wherefore not?" asked
the tyrant. "Because" replied the lad, "the
second commandment of the Decalogue tells
us, 'thou shalt have no other God but me."
His death followed immediately his brave
words.
	"My religion teaches me 'Thou shalt wor-
ship no other God" (Ex, xxxiv: 14) said the
third son, "and I welcome the fate accord-
ed to my brothers rather than bow to thee
or thy images."
	The same homage was demanded of the
fourth son, but brave and faithful as his
brothers, he replied, "He that sacrificeth
unto any God save unto the Lord only (Ex.
xxii: 20) and was slain pitilessly. "Hear
O Israel! the Lord our God, the Lord is
One!" exclaimed the fifth lad, yielding up
his young life with the watch-word of
Israel's hosts.
	"Why art thou so obstinate" was asked
of the sixth brother, when he too, was
brought before the tyrant and scorned the
propositions made him.
	"The Lord thy God is in the midst of
thee, a mighty and a terrible God" (Deut.
vii: 21) he said; and died for the principles
he proclaimed.
	Then the seventh and youngest boy was
brought before the murderer of his rela-
tives, who addressed him kindly, saying,
"my son, come bow before my gods." And
the child answered. "God forbid! Our holy
religion teaches us 'Know therefore this
day, and reflect in thy heart that the Lord
he is God, in the heavens above and on the
earth beneath, there is none else;' (Deut. iv:
39.) Never will we exchange our God for
any other, neither will he exchange us for
any other nation, for as it is written, Thou
hast this day acknowledged the Lord, and
the Lord hath acknowledged thee this day,
that thou art a peculiar people!"
	Still the tyrant spoke smoothly and with
kind words.
	"Thou art young" he said; "thou hast
seen but little of the pleasures of this life,
not as much as has fallen to the portion of
thy brethren. Do as I wish thee and thy
future shall be bright and happy,"
	"The Lord will reign for ever and ever,"
said the lad; "thy nation and thy kingdom
will be destroyed; thou art here to-day, to-
morrow in the grave; to-day elevated to-
morrow lowly; but the Most High One en-
dures for ever."
	"See" continued the other, "thy brothers
lie slain before thee; their fate will be
thine if thou refuseth to do as I desire;
see I will cast my ring to the ground, stoop
thou and pick it up: that I will consider
allegiance to my gods-"
	"Thinkest thou that I fear thy threats!"
returned the unterrified lad; "why should
I fear a human being more than the great
God the King of kings?"
	"Where and what is thy God?" asked
the oppressor; "is there a God in the world?
"Can there be a world without a creator?"
replied the youth. "Of thy gods 'tis said,
mouths they have but speak not: of our
God the psalmist says 'By the word of the
Lord were the heavens made.' Thy gods
have eyes but they see not; but the eyes of
the Lord run to and fro in the whole earth.
Thy gods have ears, but they hear not; but
of our God 'tis written, 'The Lord heark-
ened and heard; of thy god 'tis said s nose
they have but smell not; while our God
smelled the sweet savor; hands have thy
gods but they touch not; while our God
says, 'My hand hat[-] also founded the


earth,' of thy gods 'tis written feet they
have but walk not. while Zachariah tells us
of our God, 'His feet will stand that day
upon the Mount of Olives."
	"Then" said the cruel one; "if thy God
hath all these attributes why does he not
deliver thee from my power."
	The lad replied; "He delivered Chanan-
yah and his companions from the power of
Nebuchadnezzar, but they were righteous
men, and Nebuchadnezzar was a king de-
serving of seeing a miracle performed, but
for me, alas I am not worthy of redemp-
tion, neither art thou worthy of the demo-
stration of God's power."
	"Let the lad be slain as were his bro-
thers," commanded the tyrant.
	Then spoke the mother of the boys: "Give
me my child" she cried, "Oh cruel king,
let me fold him in my arms ere thou des-
troyest his innocent young life!" she threw
her arms around the lad, clasping him
tightly to her bosom, and pressed her lips
to his. "Take my life!,' she cried "kill
me first before my child,"
	"Nay" he answered, scoffingly, "I can-
not do it, for thy own laws forbid; whether
it be ox, or sheep ye shall not kill it and its
young in one day" (Lev. 27)
	"Oh, woe to thee" replied the mother,
"thou who art so particular to regard the
laws. Then pressing her boy to her heart,
"go my dear one, she said, "say to Abra-
ham, that my sacrifice hath exceeded his.
He built one altar whereon to sacrifice
Isaac; thy mother hath built seven altars,
and sacrificed seven Isaac's in one day. He
was but tempted thy mother performed."
	After the execution of her last son she
became insane, and fell from her house-top.
Where she fell she expired.
								NESTOR.


238		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS OF THE GOSHEN PRIMARY
ASSOCIATION.
	A little party and meeting was held in
the schoolhouse at Goshen on Thursday,
April 17. Bishop Wm. Price was present,
with some unexpected visitors from Santa-
quin, whom we were pleased to see. The
meeting was opened by singing, and prayer
by our Bishop. Singing, "Don't think
there is nothing for children to do." Bish-
op Price then addressed the children, mak-
ing appropriate remarks which were very
gratifying to those who preside as well as
to the members. Sister Louisa Taylor
made some suitable remarks, and Bro. Stick-
ney, of Santaquin, likewise spoke to the
comprehension of the little folks. Several
of the children then recited pieces, after
which their President, Sarah Roberts, di-
rected them through a series of exercises,
and questioned them upon what we had
taught them, to which they creditably re-
sponded. The meeting then closed by
siuging and benediction. The President
then arranged the children by two, and 
marched them to the new Society House
close by, where they were surprised by the
sight of buns, tarts, candy and good things
neatly arranged upon low tables, to which
they were seated; Bishop Price asked the
blessing, and while they partook of the
feast prepared, showed them the necessity
of having their names enrolled, so
they could partake of the feast, and nar-
rated the history of the Supper of the
Great Bridegroom. We had a large attend-
ance that day, and several came who never
attended the meeting before; as a large
supply of refreshments was made there was
abundance for all, also for some aged per-
sons and sick people. The children then


dispersed outside and ran races, &c., and at
an early hour they were finally dismissed.
Ever desiring the interest of Primary As-
sociations, with love we are your sisters in
the Gospel,
			SARAH ROBERTS, Pres't.
			M. A TILL, Sec'y.


THE April number W. S. J. Manchester
states that the smallest division that has
been recorded since 1870 took place on
March 7th, when Mr. Courtneys resolution
was rejected by 217 votes to 103. Majority
114. In the majority by which the motion
was defeated were 107 Conservatives, in-
cluding 24 members of the Governments, 6
Home Rulers, and 64 Liberals. The mi-
nority comprised of 62 Liberals, 29 Con-
servatives, and 12 Home Rulers.
	There were many excellent speechei on
this question while it was before the House
which we will perhaps make extracts from
soon. Suffice to say the woman question
is at present being successfully agitated.


PROGRESS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.—There
is light and hope. The world moves. On
Saturday evening last, at a district school
meeting, which district comprises most of
the inhabitants in a town of 4000 persons,
the district elected Miss Mary Gordon, one
of the Prudential Committee. She is a
lady worthy of such a phsition, and a high-
er one. It is a victory for Woman Suffrage.
The town is three to one Republican, as
against Democrats and Greenbackers. Of
course, Republicans, like all in power, are
inimical to Woman Suffrage; but the law is,
and is destined to be supported by the wo-
men. Women are timid at first, but bold and
brave afterwards, and are seldom wanting
in strict integrity and unalloyed sympathy
with right and justice.				H.
	Exeter, March 17, 1879.—Ex.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASEDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS, Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly reponded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
		MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
						Salt Lake Ciiy.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodat[-] her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES

Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

