WE HAVE Vol. 1, No. 2, of "The Union,'
published in St. George by J. W. Carpen-
ter. The motto is "United we stand, di-
vided we fall." Price, $1.00 a year. We
are glad to see a paper started in that vi-
cinity, and trust it may prove a successful
enterprise.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LITTLE CHAIR.
Oh! the children, happy children,
Smiling everywhere I go;
Some as brown as Autumn's berries,
Some as fair as Winter Snow.

Some with eyes as blue as morning,
Some with eyes as dark as night,
Some with faces strangely thoughtful,
Some with faces strangely bright.

And the while I gayly greet them
Back my heart returneth where,
In my room amongst the flowers,
Stands a baby's little chair.

But, alas! the laughing darling,
That in precious by-gone days
Sat there, never more will cheer me,
With his pretty naughty ways.

Cunning feet placed on the table--
When his noontide meal was e'er--
Cup of milk poured on the sugar,
Spoon andlfork dropped on the floor.

Then when "mother's" face grew cloudy
Little arms around me thrown,
Little hands my cheeks caressing,
Sweet lips pressed upon my own.

Oh! the children, happy children--
Yes, I meet them everywhere:
But at home amongst the flowers,
Stands a baby's empty chair.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I sometimes feel it almost a duty devolv-
ing upon me to transmit some of my ram-
bling thoughts to paper for publication ex-
pressive of my gratitude to my Heavenly
Father for his mercy and goodness towards
me and mine, who are invariably blessed
with good health, and a goodly portion of
the Spirit of God which teaches and guides
us in the path marked out for us to follow;
but I have refrained, fearing, though per-
haps foolishly, that my sisters might deem
me officious, or desirous of being noticed,
but as notoriety is not a characteristic of
my nature I withhold my pen no longer in
a good cause, and ever pray that I may live
the life of a Saint and perform those du-
ties which rest upon me as a mother in Is-
rael. I do desire my children to become
bright and useful ornaments in the service
and kingdom of God, and also willing and
obedient to their earthly parents whose
constant prayers are for their good that
they may lay claim to the blessing of life
as promised in the 5th commandment.
	The Gospel was introduced to me in Lon-
don in 1852, by a zealous man who subse-
quently became my husband, emigrated to
Utah in the last hand-cart company in 56,
and entered the holy order of Celestial
Marriage in the spring of 57; have had
twenty-one years experience in the valleys
of the mountains, and feel thankful for my
standing in the Church of Jesus Christ,
and for a husband who delights in the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and who is honest and
just in his dealings with all. I have not
been favored in Zion like some, with earth-
ly riches, but I do not feel to repine, for I
have blessings which far exceed these, for
the Lord has enriched me with a grateful
and appreciative heart, which were it possi-
ble,I would not exchange for all this world's
goods. I try to gain knowledge and wis-
dom that I can lay up treasures in heaven
where rust and moth cannot corrupt, and
pray that my mind may become fruitful
and my memory refreshed, that I may re-
tain those good things which I read and
hear, that they may prove a lasting benefit
to me. I rejoice in the Gospel dispensation
and in the principle of Plural Marriage,
knowing it is of divine origin, by its en-
nobling and purifying tendencies. Man
could not, neither would he devise such a

[Column 2]
great and grand design as the Lord has in
view, 'tis too pure and god-like for the un-
godly to trifle with, and I am thankful for
it that a righteous seed may be raised up
to rule and govern upon the earth, under
the jurisdiction of the Almighty Creator,
that his purposes may be finally brought
about which are destined to redeem man-
kind. I am one alone out of a large family
and have quite a list of my genealogy when
the way opens for me to officiate for my
dead relatives, and friends, and as a sister
told me I am as a Savior upon Mount Zion.
I am also thankful for the societies and as-
sociations formed among women, and that
I am counted worthy to be a co-worker
therein and trust they will answer the pur-
pose for which they were organized, and
may we strive to improve our moral and
intellectual worth is my earnest desire.
M. A. TATE.
Goshen Valley, May 28, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I want to say a few words to the sisters
through your columns, in my humble way
of writing. I am thankful I have the priv-
ilege of being numbered with the Saints,
yea, the greatest dispensation of the world.
Dear young sisters let us consider the im-
portance of the times we are living in.
Let us be prayerful yea, pray always, that
we may be prepared for the changes that
are to take place here on the earth, even
for the coming of our blessed Lord and
Savior. Let us seek to be found worthy to
receive the blessings the Lord has in store
for the faithful. My dear young friends
consider it is you that will by and by have
the responsibility of bearing off this king-
dom. There is a great work to be done for
the dead. We read in the Scriptures, "We
cannot be made perfect without them, nor
they without us; then let us be wise for
now is the day of salvation. Sisters cease
to follow after the fashions of Babylon,
make your dresses neat and comely that
you may look fit for the society of holy an-
gels. This is the way I would like to see
my daughters dress, and all the young la-
dies in Zion; then I think our Heavenly
Father would smile upon them. I pray
continually that the spirit of the Lord and
His blessings may rest npon all the sisters,
especially the young, and that wisdom may
be imparted to the sisters from the Lord
that they may have understanding. Let
us honor our teachers and those who are in
authority over us; girls honor your moth-
ers as your guardian angels. Let us coun-
sel and comfort one another. It is good to
go to a sister and friend when we are in
trouble or sorrow and receive kindness at
their hands and consolation from their lips.
	God bless every humble and faithful
saint is my prayer. JEMIMA BROWN.


MEETING OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
MT. PLEASANT, June 23, 1878.
	On the stand were Sisters Eliza R. Snow
and Zina D. Young of Salt Lake City, Mrs.
Amelia Goldsbrough of Nephi, Mrs. M. A.
P. Hyde and Mrs. Alred of Spring City,
and Mrs. Irons of Moroni, also Mrs. Mor-
rison, President of the Relief Society of
Mt. Pleasant, and her Counselors.  Meet-
ing was called to order by the President.
Opened by singing prayer, etc.  Miss E.
R. Snow arose and said she had looked
over the financial reports and was well
pleased with them; the Prophet Joseph had
said that whenever the church was fully
organized there would be Relief Societies
and if they would carry out the will of the
Lord, they would  become the most glorious
societies that were ever formed.  Said we
should all be rewarded for our labors wheth-
er they were all reported or not.  If we
keep the Comforter in our bosoms, we
should always be happy and the labors of
life would be pleasant and we would realize
that we were working for a purpose. Every 
one would have to work out his or her sal-
vation and one could not do the work for 
the other.  Urged the sisters, if there was
any one who had not joined the society to
do so and they would find it of great bene-
fit to them; it is woman that gives tone
to society, hence she should seek to im-
prove in everything that is noble and good;
the success of the Relief Societies is as
much to the interest of the brethren as to
the sisters.  The Lord has offered us the 
highest glory in the Celestial World, and
revealed unto us the law by which it could
be obtained, "Celestial Marriage," and if
people thought that a man who had been
sealed to one wife only, could obtain the
same degree of glory as the man who had
received more and was faithful, they would
find themselves dreadfully mistaken; and
the man that would not obey this law could
not become a God in the Celestial Kingdom.
She exhorted the sisters to read the Church
works and other useful books and to avoid
that class of reading that would be no ben-
efit to them; recommended for the Y. I.
Association to introduce home reading and
report in their meetings.  Said if Zion did
not become self-sustaining we would suffer
when the time came that we would be cut
off from Babylon; also recommended the
setting out of mulberry-trees and the rais-
ing of silk.  Related a vision given to a
certain young man forshadowing famine
and distress that will come among this peo-
ple.
Mrs. Zina D. Young was next introduced
to the congregation and said:  We should
strive to imitate the love and goodness of
our Heavenly Father and let it extend to
all around us; it was no doubt right for the
Lord to try the rising generation so they
might have a chance to show whether they
would yield to the tempter or not.  The
sin is not in being tempted, but in falling
into temptation.  She presented some fine
specimens of silk cloth, dress goods, fringe,
thread, etc., all of home production.  Hoped
the sisters would patronize the Woman's
paper, the EXPONENT, and read the good
instruction therein contained.
Miss E. R. Snow felt to acknowledge the
kind assistance rendered to the Territorial
Fair by the ladies of this place, in the fine
specimens of workmanship forwarded by
them; related the establishment and pro-
gress of the Woman's Commission Store in
S. L. City.  Wished the young sisters to
write for the EXPONENT and accustom
themselves to writing generally.
Mrs. Morrison made a few remarks and
desired those who wished to subscribe for
the EXPONENT to hand in their names,
several responded.  A vote of thanks was
tendered to Sisters Snow and Young for
the visit they had made us and for the rich
and valuable instructions we had received
from them.
John Tidwell sen., was called upon and
responded in a few remarks expressing his
satisfaction and joy in meeting with old
time friends and listening to their words
of encouragement.
W. S. Seely made a few remarks and ex-
horted the people to profit by what they
had heard from the sisters.
Singing, and prayer by C. N. Lund.
M. F. C. MORRISON, Prest.
R. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
MORAL COURAGE IN WOMEN.

	What a vast amount of courage is needed in
the warfare of life. The various conditions
and circumstances incident to an experience
here, call for strength of character and firmness;
and in addition to these characteristics, one
must possess a certain ingredient which can
be defined by no other name than courage.
There are sure to be many occasions in which
this attribute must be called into exercise, or
the person would shrink from performing ur-
gent duties, and be fit only to sit in a retreat
some stronger arm had prepared, without suffi-
cient heroism to face the battle of life, while
some one possessing true moral courage goes
forth to do battle for them with the stern reali-
ties of the world. Courage is considered one
of the principal elements in the nature of man.
Most people seem to think women are very
deficient in this respect; the assertion has been
made so often, that it has resolved itself into
what is taken as testimony by the majority,
and yet thousands of instances might be cited,
to prove that women bravely face difficulties
and misfortunes with strong and firm confi-
dence, while men, with all their boasted superior-
ity of conrage, retreat, leaving the weak to the
rescue.
	How often do we see strong men leave deli-
cate women to face unpleasant phases of life
alone, while they run away, to avoid bearing
their share of the very burdens they have been
the means of accumulating. It always re-
quires self-sacrifice to face disagreeable things,
and women do really seem to have that self-
discipline, that divinity in their nature, that
inspire[-] them to practise self-denial, to live
more for others and less for selfish aims and
purposes than man. These qualities are part
of the truly beautiful in what is termed wo-
manliness, and one is sometimes led to think
that men esteem this phase of woman's char-
acter so much that they are anxious to give
her opportunities to display it, that they may
look on and admire. When troubles come,
when poverty and misfortune and suffering
seem to settle down upon the household, is it
not too often the case that the husband and
father resorts to scenes of dissipation, and
seeks to drown his sorrows by the aid of strong
drink; while the wife and mother bravely
strives to stem the tide of misfortune alone,
and by her own industry and with a courage
sometimes almost more than human, patiently
supports the burdens of life, braving the sever-
est storms and stemming the strongest cur-
rents which rise up on all sides to discourage?
	In view of all these facts, men holding pub-
lic offices, rulers in the land and over peoples,
men of culture, men of letters, cry out contin-
ually women are dependent, women can't

[Column 2]
fight, yet men leave women to fight the terri-
ble battles of life that in some instances are
worse to face than death, and those who are
not brave enough to bear the scoffs, and jeers,
and frowns they know must be met in taking
up again life's weary burdens, seek death in
any form, in preference to accepting such con-
ditions as they know must be their only refuge,
wanting strength to live down the past. But
thousands of women in all ages heroically rise
up and arm themselves with a courage that is
admirable, not bold and defiant, but simply
noble in its strength.
	Women do certainly seem to possess a posi-
tive power in their nature, which often makes
itself apparent in the midst of difficulties, and
inspires them, as it were, with faith in them-
selves, that lifts them into a higher and clearer
atmosphere of thought and feeling, and has
such an influence over their lives as to create
strength to overcome obstacles that erst had
seemed insupportable. Every person has a
certain amount of influence over others, in the
family life, in the social circle, and in some
degree it may extend through these sources to
the public. Every woman who has self-reliant
powers, who has faith in her own character,
who believes herself capable of achieving good,
will have an object and a laudable ambition,
and if in connection with this she has that
grace and humility which are component parts
of true womanly worth, then she will be apt
to keep her balance. And added to all these if
she is a Christian, a follower of Jesus' precepts,
she has still another anchor of safety.
	If "women can't and won't fight," if the ele-
ments of peace are so strong in their nature,
then would it not be a good element to infuse
into the laws and governments of nations, and
might it not be a power that would aid in hast-
ening the day when "peace and good will"
should prevail and men should no longer wage
war against each other.
		[handwritten E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE LEARN, by letter from Mrs. S. J. A.
Spencer of Washington, that there has been
40,000 names to XVI Amendment petitions
presented in both House and Senate since the
beginning of the 45th Congress. The number
of separate petitions is over 400, from some 425
Congressional Districts in 35 States and 5 Ter-
ritories. Mrs. Spencer has printed 50,000 ap-
peals to women to work for their own enfran-
chisement, and has addressed them to 20,000
P. O. towns. She says she is greatly encour-
aged at the response.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will teach a class in
Obstetrics, commencing immediately after the
October Conference. The class will be taught
at Mrs. Barney's, 11th Ward, 2d South St., 6 1/2
blocks east of Post Office. Students can be
accommodated on reasonable terms; reside and
recite in the same building. Those wishing to
join will please correspond and learn particu-
lars, arrangements should be made as early as
the middle of August. We have addressed
letters to many of the Relief Society Presi-
dents, but it is thought best to insert a few
lines in the EXPONENT, for the benefit of those
who may wish to attend, that our previous
correspondence has not yet reached. Address,
E. S. Barney, Salt Lake City, Box, 739.
	THE "PEARL of Great Price" has been re-
vised, and is now ready for sale at the "Deseret
News" Office. The book contains much of in-
terest to this people, and which would be bene-
ficial to those anxious to gain correct informa-
tion concerning the Gospel. It is a collection

[Column 2]

of choice matter; taken from the revelations,
translations and narrations of the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith. The book contains the revelation
on Celestial Marriage, given to the Prophet in
Nauvoo, Illinois. It has three woodcuts, fac
similes from the "Book of Abraham." It is
bound in cloth and paper, at different prices.
The book will be a valuable addition to the
libraries of the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions. It would certainly be advisable for the
young people in this community to read such
books, and get ideas concerning principles of
truth. Price, cloth binding, 75 cts; paper
cover, 50 cts.
	MRS. HANNAH T. King, one of our contrib-
utors, has elaborated and published in pam-
phlet form her articles entitled "Women of
the Scriptures." She has dedicated the book
to the "Young Ladies of Utah." Mrs. King
hopes by this means to awaken an interest in
the young ladies to the reading of the Scrip-
tures, and examining into the characters and
attributes of holy women. She has arranged
them according to the age in which they lived,
commencing with Eve, Sarah, Hagar, Rebecca,
and so on, taking in all of the most noble and
sublime heroines of the Bible, down to Mary,
the mother of Jesus, Martha and Mary, to
Dorcas or Tabitha, she from whom so many
benevolent societies have been named. It
closes with a short poem addressed to woman.
The price, 10 cents, brings it within the reach
of all. It is adapted for use in Sunday School
classes. It is neatly got up in a variety of col-
ors, suitable to lay upon any lady's table. The
pamphlet is for sale at this Office, at Dwyer's
Book Store, at several Ward Stores, and at
Mrs. King's residence, 17th Ward.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of Salt Lake
Stake was held in the Tabernacle in this city,
Saturday and Sunday, July 6th and 7th, Presi-
dent A. M. Cannon presiding. A Quarterly
statistical report of this Stake was read, includ-
ing the report of building committee for the
New Tabernacle, the amount donated to Salt
Lake Temple, financial report of Relief Socie-
ty of Salt Lake Stake from the first organiza-
tion, also quarterly report of last three months;
report of the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions and Sunday Schools. The General Au-
thorities of this Stake of Zion were presented
and unanimously sustained, including the
presidency of the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake. President Cannon addressed the meet-
ing during the morning session. In the after-
noon Elder O. Pratt and Elder W. Woodruff
gave a most earnest exhortation to the Latter-
day Saints to awake to the importance of the
times, and realize the great responsibilities they
were called upon to carry out. Sunday the
forenoon and afternoon services were most
specially interesting; Elder George Q. Cannon,
Delegate to Congress (recently returned), re-
lated something of his experience during this
last session of Congress, the general feeling
wnich existed towards this people since the
death of Pres. Young, and many things which
were very entertaining and instructive. Elder
Joseph F. Smith preached a very powerful ser-
mon upon Celestial Marriage, its benefits, &c.
Pres. John Taylor made the closing remarks
of the afternoon, and strongly and earnestly
appealed to the Elders of Israel to awake from
their slumber and magnify their callings be-
fore the Lord, and honor the Priesthood they
held. The Spirit of God was abundantly man-
ifest in the speakers. The Tabernacle was well
filled on Sunday. The music throughout the
Conference was of a high order, lofty and ele-
vating in tone.


[Column 1]
	A PHILANTHROPIC, moral work is now being
agitated among the sisters, which will, if car-
ried into execution (and it probably will be if
women take hold of it), help to cultivate some
of the little boys born in Zion, that now are
much in need of teaching and discipline.
There are some mothers, and some ladies who
have no children of their own, watching the
growth of evil among the young, and they feel
strongly impressed that some course must be
taken to arrest the development of evil tenden-
cies, and implant in the minds of the younger
boys of the community a love of principle, a
regard for truth, a respect for virtue and hones-
ty, and a remembrance for keeping the Sabbath
holy. It is scarcely yet known what the direct
methods will be, but some suggestions have
been made and some plans proposed, and we feel
it is timely. It is a very important matter, and
one that deserves the best thoughts of the
wisest men and women, especially the fathers
and mothers.
	This people spend time and money, leave
their homes and families to preach the Gospel
in foreign lands, and travel by land and sea,
enduring hardships and persecution, that they
may save some; but while all these things are
being done according to the designs of God in
these last days, the children born in Zion must
not be suffered to grow up in ignorance and
unbelief, disregarding the commandments of
God and breaking His holy Sabbath. We know
the teaching in Sunday Schools is a great in-
centive to good, but there must be other co-op-
erating influences in connection with this, for
children have so great a flow of animal spirits,
and their natures are so susceptible to influ-
ences that surround them, that unless there is
a constant safeguard thrown around them in
tender years, they are liable to be led into evil
practises, and their lives blighted through hab-
its and associations that are improper and tend
to evil.
	WEDNESDAY, July 10, the Quarterly Con-
ference of Davis Co. Stake Relief Society was
held in Farmington, at the Meeting House,
commencing at 10 o'clock a.m. and at 2 o'clock
p.m., forenoon and afternoon session. There
were present on the stand President of Stake,
Wm. Smith, Bishop Hess of Farmington, Pa-
triarch Roswell Hyde of Kaysville, Miss Eliza
R. Snow and Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake
City, and Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes, President of
Relief Society local Stake, her Counselors,
Mrs. Mary S. and Mrs. Nancy A. Clark, Secre-
tary Miss Minerva Richards, also Presidents of
other local branches. Minutes of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society Stake, and reports
from all the branches in the County, except
South Weber, were read by the Secretary. The
reports proved that the sisters in that County
had been diligent in good works, and possessed
good financial ability. Since their first organ-
ization they have contributed largely, in vari-
ous ways, towards promoting the establishment
of Zion.
	Some eloquent and earnest remarks were
made by the sisters, appropriate to the occa-
sion, upon the duties and responsibilities of
woman as a Saint and citizen; also upon the
storing of grain, home industries, especially
sericulture and straw work. Miss Snow made
a touching appeal to the audience on the sub-
ject of Sabbath breaking and its terrible conse-
quences; in fact, she said so many good things
that we cannot enumerate them. She called
upon all the sisters who had home-manufac-
tured hats or bonnets to stand up, and there
was a goodly number, but not so many as one
would expect in a settlement where straw-
material is abundant. In the afternoon Miss

[Column 2]
Snow spoke upon the efforts which were being
made to become self-sustaining, the various
duties of Saints, the mission given to the Re-
lief Societies to manufacture silk, and called
for all the sisters who were raising cocoons to
give their names to the Secretary. President
Holmes called upon each President of the re-
spective branches in Davis Co. to represent
her Society from the stand. Mrs. Phebe At-
kinson of South Bountiful, Mrs. Elizabeth
Barlow of East Bountiful, Mrs. Susan Grant
of West Bountiful, Mrs. Margaret Randall of
Centreville, Mrs. Hortensia Leonard of Farm-
ington, Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Kaysville,
Mrs. King, Counselor to Mrs. Janet Cook of
South Weber, Mrs. Elizabeth Williams of
South Hooper, all responded, making a few
remarks upon the work in their respective lo-
calities, and their great desire to help in build-
ing up the kingdom of God. The Presidents
of Y. L. M. I. A. were then called. Mrs. Lucy
Clark represented the Association of Farming,
ton, Mrs. Williams that of Kaysville, Mrs.
Caroline Dalrymple of Centreville, Mrs. Holt
of East Bountiful. Miss E. R. Snow, by re-
quest of the officers of the Stake, after some
explanatory remarks, nominated Mrs. Nancy
A. Clark to preside over the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
ciations of Davis Co. Stake; the vote to sustain
her in that office was unanimous. Miss
Wealthy Richards was nominated as her Sec-
retary, and sustained by unanimous vote.
President Wm. Smith and Bishop J. W. Hess
then set apart the sisters who preside over the
Relief Society of that Stake in that County
for their special offices. Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes,
President, and her two Counselors, also Mrs.
Nancy A. Clark to preside over the Young
Ladies' Associations. Pres. Smith and Bishop
Hess each made some very excellent remarks
approving of the business of the Conference,
the teaching and instruction which had been
given, and encouraging the sisters to persevere
in their labors. The meeting was one of great
interest, and calculated to promote and
strengthen the growth of spiritual, moral and
intellectual culture among the sisters, and to
aid the various branches of the Society in
more effectually uniting to do good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		29


PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Why do we hear the Latterday Saints speak
evil of each other and the holy prin-
ciples of the Gospel? I often wonder why this
can be, or who is to blame for it. I think if
we mothers would examine ou[-]selves, we
would see where the evil springs from; and I
think if we would keep the spirit of God with
us always, and go to our Heavenly Father and
ask wisdom and strength it would be beneficial
in helping us to have influence with our child-
ren; and help us to sustain holy principles,
which we know that the Lord has revealed for
our exaltation. If we could exercise a little
more faith in God, the little troubles that come
up in our way from time to time, would not
annoy us. I speak, from my own experience.
I have lived in plural marriage for seventeen
years and I thank my Heavenly Father that I
have been counted worthy of the honor of do-
ing so. I truly know my sisters if we honor
this pure principle, we will be numbered with
the honorable daughters of Zion, when the
Lord comes to make up his jewels. To know
that is worth living for. If we all expect to
gain Celestial glory, then we must work for it,
and not be forgetful and neglect the duties we
owe to our Heavenly Father. The experience
I have gained the last seventeen years I would
not give for anything I know of in this world.
								A. M.


DIED April 5th, in Tooele City, in child-
birth, Mary J. Madden Dunn, aged thirty-six
years, she leaves a husband and six children,
but their loss will be her eternal gain.  In all
the sorrows and vicissitudes of life she proved
herself a faithful Latter-day Saint; she had
many noble traits of character, and her mem-
ory will never be forgotten by those with whom
she has been associated--CM.


ANOTHER WONDERFUL GAVE IN
KENTUCKY.

	Another wonderlul cave has recently been
discovered near Glasgow Junction, Ky. It
has already been explored for a distance of
23 miles in one direction, called the long
route, and 16 miles in another direction,
called the short route. The avenues are
very wide; a span of horses can easily be
driven through for a distance of 11 miles.
Three rivers, wide and very deep, are en-
countered on the long route. One of them
is navigable for 14 miles, until the passages
become too narrow to admit a boat. This
forms the third, or river route. which has
to be explored in a boat.
	The cave is wonderful beyond descrip-
tion, and far surpasses in grandeur the
Mammoth, or any other cave ever before
discovered. Several mummified remains
have been discovered in one of the large
rooms. They were reposing in stone cof-
fins, rudely constructed, and from appear-
ances may have been in this cave for cen-
turies. They present every appearance of
the Egyptian mummies.
	Great excitement prevails over this very
important discovery. Edwin Mortimore,
of Chestnut Street, Louisville, Ky., pur-
chased three of the mummies, and has them
now in his possession. Major George M.
Proctor, of Glasgow Junction, Ky., pur-
chased the remainder of the mummies from
the owner of the cave, Thomas Kelley. The
latter is, or rather was a few days ago, a
very poor man struggling to make a pay-
ment on a farm of 24 acres, upon which, by
mere accident, the entrance to this wonder-
ful cave was discovered. He obtained about
$400 cash for the mummies, and is now of-
fered $10,000 cash for the cave.
	The entrance to the cave is within the
town limits, and is only about two minutes'
walk from the depot, which makes it very
valuable indeed, as visitors will not be
compelled to travel five miles in a stage
coach, as they do if desirous of visiting the
Mammoth cave, which is five miles from
this town. In fact, all the celebrated caves
in Kentucky are in this immediate vicin-
ity. The surface is very much broken, full
of great, elevations and depressions, with
everything to indicate that there were vol-
canic eruptions or violent upheavals of the
earth at some period.
	The newly discovered cave has been
named the Grand Crystal cave, and is as
beautiful as its name implies. Ladders and
bridges are being constructed, and J. R.
Puckett, a capitalist of the town; announces
his intention of having a small steamboat
constructed expressly for the purpose of
navigating its wonderful rivers.—[Dispatch
to Cincinnati Commercial.]


For Rheumatism.—Take one quart of hops, one
large handful of wormwood, boil them well to-
gether in one gallon of water; then strain the
liquid and boil it down to one quart; add one
quart of the best brandy and one pound of white
sugar. Take one tablespoonful three times a day.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

			ST. GEORGE, June, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	The St. George First Ward Relief Socie-
ty held their first annual meeting on
Wednesday the 1st of June, at 2 o'clock p.
m. In consequence of a heavy shower of
rain, the attendance was not as large as
would have been desirable. After the
opening of the meeting the Secretary read
the report which reflected great credit on
her, for the neat and concise manner in
which it was made out; it showed our So-
ciety to be in an excellent financial condi-
tion. The amount which the society has
received in donations and otherwise since
its organization is two hundred and seventy
dollars. The amount now on hand in dif-
ferent kinds of property, is three hundred
and nineteen dollars and sixty-five cents,
showing that the sisters have made, by
their united efforts and faithful labor, a
clear profit of forty-nine dollars and sixty-
five cents. Independent of this they have
donated during the year, to the poor and
Temples, seventy-eight dollars and ten
cents.
	We have been greatly blessed of the
Lord, and materially assisted by our Bishop
and other brethren of the ward who have
taken a lively interest, and have never been
backward in rendering us assistance.
There were present at our meeting, besides
members, President J. T. D. McAllister,
Bishop Miles P. Romney, Wm. Fawcett
and President Anna L. Ivins, all of whom
spoke in a lovely manner, instructing and
encouraging us. Our previous officers were
re-elected and unanimously sustained, hav-
ing proven themselves well qualified for
their positions. Sister Sarah Church, an
energetic and enterprising woman, well
known to many of your citizens has suc-
ceeded in raising for the society about one
lb. of cocoons, as a small beginning to the
silk business, she has also saved a few silk-
worm eggs with a view to trying again
next year. The Bishop in his remarks,
spoke encouragingly in regard to silk cul-
ture, he hoped they would not give it up,
or let die out; he thanked the sisters for
their aid in looking after the poor, and
sick, and seemed to appreciate the labors
of the Society very much.
	The health of the people is not very good
this Spring. Work is still going on in the
Temple.
				A MEMBER OF R. S.

	MENDON, CACHE CO., May 31st, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Annual Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of this place was held May 28, 1868.
The meeting was well attended and a good
spirit prevailed. The sisters bore their
testimonies exhorting to faithfulness and
diligence in the building up of the king-
dom of God, knowing the time is short and
much to be accomplished. Made mention
of the loving kindness of our Heavenly
Father, also expressed their desire to aid
by their labor and means to build Temples.
They expressed their satisfaction at the re-
sult of our year's labors as a Society. Bish-
op H. Hughes gave us some very good in-
struction, he was well satisfied and pleased
with the progress we had made.
	Report for the year ending May 28, 1878,
is as follows:

Balance in Treasury in cash and orders,
May 28, 1878...............................$ 132 00

[Column 2]
Donation in Sunday Eggs...........     41 84
Quilts............................................    11 00
Socks............................................       6 00
							    ———
		Total				   190 93

	Disbursements for the year ending May
28, 1878.

Logan Temple..................................   49 71
Woolen Factory...............................   25 00
Donation to the poor.....................    14 32
Balance in Treasury in cash and or-
	ders........................................... 101 90
							      ———
	Total					     190 93
				E. A. WILLIE, Pres't.
				S. A. HUGHES, Sec'y.


PROTECTION TO WIVES.
 The House of Commons has agreed to
the new and amended Clause which was
added to the Matrimonial Causes Bill. This
measure now enables police magistrates to
grant, what is substantially a judicial separ-
ation between married couples in cases
where a husband is convicted of an aggra-
vated assault upon his wife. A magistrate’s
order will have all the effect of a judicial
separation on the ground of cruelty. The
husband will be compelled to make the
wife a weekly allowance, to be enforced, in
case of default, by an application for an or-
der to commit him to prison; and the mag-
istrate may, at his discretion, give orders
that the mother is to have custody of the
children under ten years, a supplementary
allowance for their maintenance being en-
forced from the fatner. In the event of
subsequent misconduct on the part of the
mother the children may be removed from
her care.
	The necessity of such a regulation had
become continuously more evident as
weeks and months went by. It was diffi-
cult to open a paper without finding one or
more cases of what Miss Cobbe rightly
termed “Wife Torture,” and equally diffi-
cult to avoid being struck by the painfully
inadequate punishments which were meted
to this crime. It has for a long time been
possible for a rich woman to obtain a decree
of judicial separation under circumstances
of aggravated cruelty—but the class of wo-
men which could afford to pay was precise-
ly not the class which suffered oftenest or
most terribly. It is the illiterate unreclaimed
laborer or artisan who most frequently
knocks his wife’s eye out or jumps upon
her, and for these poor women there has
hitherto been no relief except the tempor-
ary respite while her tormenter was in
prison,---overshadowed by the dread of
what he might do to her in revenge when
he came out. Now, at all events his legal
power as tormentor will be abridged. The
children, who, in many cases are nearly as
great sufferers as the wife, will also be re-
moved from his control, and he will still be
made to feel the responsibilities of hus-
band and father by the weekly payments
he is compelled to make.
	As far as it goes, the clause appears to us
an unmixed gain to women, for as the
“Pall Mall Gazette aptly observes:—“When
a husband realizes that if he belabors his
helpmeet over the head with a poker, or
smashes her ribs by kicks with hob-nailed
boots, he not only runs the risk of impris- 
onment with hard labor, but also that of
losing the services of a hardworking slave,
he will probably think twice before he
strikes or kicks once.” Nevertheless we
cannot expect it to make everything
straight at once. Where wrong has existed
for so long it needs a very steady growth
of opinion, influence of education, and un-
relaxed watchfulness on the part of the
magistrates before its evil effects can be ob-
literated. In the first place there will be
the difficulty of extorting a sufficiency of
alimony or maintenance from the husband.
Of course so long as he is in prison the wife
must either support herself and the child-
ren or go to the workhouse, for it will be a
long time before such prison reform shall
have taken place (though this is the case in
some countries) as shall enforce the pay-
ment of part of the prisoner’s earnings to
the support of his family outside. But
when he is released the magistrate will or-
der a certain allowance to be made to his
wife. This might be made more easy by
empowering his employer to pay over the
necessary portion of his weekly wages into
the wife’s own hands. It is evident, too,
that she must be allowed as complete con-
trol over this money as over her own earn-
ings.
	There will still remain behind an enor-
mous number of cases which this law can-
not touch at all, because the women who
are so brutally ill-treated are not, by any
means, always the wives of their tormen-
tors. It it curious and pitiful to see how
many of these poor creatures are not bound
by any legal tie to their tyrants; who yet,
though they might leave them at any mo-
ment, forgive their brutalities, time after
time, and submit to ill usage without using
the means of liberation within their power.
It is clear that no improvement in the law
of husband and wife is applicable here—
we must look for a remedy in far deeper
causes—the removal of which is less easy,
but would be more permanently beneficial.
	The low consideration in which the law
has hitherto held women is in our opinion,
accountable for much of this barbarity.
The theory that a wife becomes her hus-
band’s property, in body, if not soul, acts
widely in depressing the condition of all
women, whether wives or not. To a rough
uneducated man, the woman is his inferior
in everything which he holds of value;
she has not his physical strength; she can
only earn half as much wages as he can,
the law still further controls her labor, as it
does that of her children; she has not a
vote, which represents to him not unlimit-
ed beer only, but a considerable degree of
dignity and importance at election times,
and moreover, the opinion of the upper
strata of society insensibly filters down, and
as with them, a woman has so long been as
a child, a plaything, or a waxen image,
immeasurably inferior to the active, rea-
soning worldly, matter-of-fact other half of
mankind, their low estimation of women
has become almost a part of the national
character. Our task must be to work slow-
ly against this by means of education, by
instilling a reverence for humanity which
shall cause all crimes of violence against
the weak, men, women, and children, or
animals, to be regarded as far outweighing
offences against property, which at the pres-
ent day are punished so much more vigor-
ously. Our lawgivers must by an absolute
equality of law put women on the same
level as men, so that they may rise in gen-
eral estimation, and their influence on the
gentler and tenderer side of human nature
may increase.
	This amendment in the law is practically
the same that Miss Cobbe suggested in her
powerful article, a few months ago, and we
may here remark that this, and other im-
provements which have taken place in the
condition of women within the last twenty


years, originated in the efforts of women
themselves, without which the old order
would not change, nor "give place to new."
—"Englishwoman's Review."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE EARLY WOMAN'S RIGHTS
CONVENTION.

	EDITORS' JOURNAL:—An article in your
issue of June 1, contains a mistake which
demands correction, a mistake which may
mislead future history. Whether the first
"Woman's Rights Convention the world
ever knew" was held in New York State
is beyond my knowledge. But the first one
that I ever heard of was at Seneca Falls,
Seneca Co., N. Y., called by Lucretia Mott,
Elizabeth C. Stanton, Amelia Bloomer, and
others, in 1848.
	The first State Convention in Ohio was
in the spring of 1850, called by J. Elizabeth
Jones, Marianna Johnson, (wife of Oliver
Johnson) Marius Robinson and Emily Rob-
inson, Betsey Coles, Mary Gove and others,
at which I was not even present.
	I should have mentioned, in its right
place, that a four-column report of the Sa-
lem Convention was written by Oliver
Johnson, then editor of the "Anti Slavery
Bugle." which Horace Greeley received
and gladly published in full. This report
brought out, as her own words testify, in
the earlier pamphlets, the able essay of
Mrs. Stuart Mill on the "Enfranchisement
of Women."
	And here permit me to offer a merited
tribute to one of the earliest and strongest
of our noble band of pioneers.
	In the autumn of that year, the New Eng-
land women called a like Convention at
Worceter, Mass., which was largely attend-
ed and ably carried on by the prominent
reformers, women and men, of that day.
Lucy Stone, Paulina Wright Davis, Mrs. C.
I. H. Nichols, Abby K. Foster, also Wen-
dell Phillips, Elizabeth Oakes Smith, An-
toinette L. Brown, Harriott K. Hunt, Wil-
liam H. Cha[---]g, and numerous bright
lights of that time.
	In the spring of 1851, the Akron Con-
vention was called, at which I was present,
but had no other part in calling or carrying
it on, that I now remember, except being
its chosen president, and doing my ignor-
ant best in that capacity.
	Mrs. J. G. Swisshelm, Mrs. Celia Burr,
(afterwards our beloved C. M. Burleigh,)
Miss Sarah Coates, Mrs. C. M. Severance,
Mrs. H. M. Tracy (now Mrs. Cutler), Mrs.
Judge Tilden, Mary T. Corney, Mrs. Emma
R. Coe, and Sojourner Truth, with others
who called the Convention of 1850, made
the Convention brilliant and successful.
Four of the Hutchinson family, aided with
their stirring songs. Judson, John, Jesse
and Asa helped to fill the church, and many
young ears learned new gospels of liberty
never after forgotten.
	I earnestly wish some ready pen and good
memory would reproduce, with all their in-
terest, those early efforts in the great work
of equalizing the rights of the sexes. The
day will come when they will be called for.
A more clear, concise and full statement of
the disabilities of women under the law
was never given than the address of Mrs.
Jane Elizabeth Jones, made at the first Wo-
man's Rights Convention in Ohio, in 1850.
	FRANCES D. GAGE.
Vineland, N. J.—"Woman's Journal."


To Remove Iron Mold: Wet the spot; lay it
over, a hot-water plate, or strain it over a basin
with hot water in it; put a little salts of lemon on
the spot; wash it as soon as the spot is removed.


[Column 1]
FROM OVER THE SEA.

				LONDON, May 27, 1878.

	I write from the Athenæum Club, one of
the series of palaces which line Pall Mall,
and impress an American visitor with some
amazement. The Athenæum is the only
one among these which claims also an intel-
lectual reputation; it is the palace of men
of letters; their place of meeting, of re-
freshment, of study, of luxurious repose.
Its library reminds one of that of its name-
sake in Boston, though with an incompara-
bly grander hall. But there are also read-
ing-rooms, writing-rooms, smoking-room
and dining hall; it is, as it were, the Bos-
ton Athenæum and Tremont House thrown
into one; with a good many added luxuries,
every conceivable convenience for study,
delightful writing tables furnished with all
the elaborate English conveniences, a post-
office drop-letter box in every room, and
liveried servants always at hand. To this
is added the flavor of absolute privacy; no-
body can bring a guest beyond the entrance-
hall; but the committee may admit foreign-
ers not exceeding fifteen in number, as vis-
itors" for a month. Through the kindness
of friends, I find myself one of those now
enjoying this privilege. As in all palaces—
I suppose—you can make use of this for the
least or the greatest privileges; you can
come in to get a luncheon or a postage-stamp;
or you can come in for hours of study in the
library; or take your chance of meeting
Browning or Mathew Arnold or Huxley or
Hughes or Sir Henry Maine or Anthony
Trollope or many another who has before
been to you only a name on a title-page.
No spot in the world can offer to an Eng-
lish-speaking author such satisfactions. It
forms no small part, I should say, of the ad-
vantage of London residence to an author,
that he has this magnificent intellectual
headquarters, where he can meet authors or
students in all the departments, and can
compare notes on any subject with the men
who have most studied it. I wish I could
add that women share this advantage, but
they do not. There are clubs of less pre-
tentions to which women are, however, ad-
mitted; and I hope to visit some of these.
	I have had the pleasure of meeting in
London several of the leaders of the Wo-
man Suffrage movement, and have heard
speeches on the subject from Mrs. Fawcett,
Miss Becker, Miss Kerr, and others. All
that they said was extremely to the point,
and I was struck with the success with
which they met objections. They had per-
haps less grace and eloquence than some of
our speakers; and dealt, as in the English
way, more in facts than in abstract princi-
ples. They did not strike me as having
any other advantage; and I noticed that
they seemed less successful in drawing
men of high social rank to the movement
than some meetings which seemed quite
as radical—as for instance the "Sunday So-
ciety" for opening galleries, which mus-
tered two or three Earls without apparent
difficulty. I had also the great pleasure of
meeting in private Miss Helen Taylor, well
known to the readers of Stuart Mill, and to
hear her speak in very cordial terms of the
"Woman's Journal." She and Mrs. Miller,
whom I have also met, are active members
of the London School Board.

	Much interest has been inspired here by
the Besant trial, as a result of which, the cus-
tody of a little girl was assigned to the fa-
ther instead of the mother, on the ground
first, that the latter propagated atheistical
doctrines, and, secondly, that she had also
published a book, which the Judge on exam-

[Column 2]
ination, pronounced obscene and immoral.
I wish I had time to describe more fully the
trial—the little court-room, the bewigged
judge and lawyers; the fair, calm, gentle
young mother, only twenty-eight years old,
pleading for her child. She argued simply
and clearly, though she made, as I thought,
some palpably weak points; and her sweet-
ness under the abrupt interruptions of the
judges was something admirable. But the
judge though abrupt was not unkind; and
even the opposing lawyer showed far more
courtesy, I thought, than may often be
seen in an American Court. The final de-
cision seems severer in reading than it
sounded; and though the Judge (Sir George
Jessel) ruled against her on both points, he
plainly regarded her as a deluded, not as a
bad woman, and gave his decision with re-
luctance. One thing that added to the pic-
turesqueness of the scene was that it was a
Jewish judge, who on the Jewish Sabbath,
thus decided between a Christian husband
and an atheist wife. Another noticeable
thing was that he ruled against her, in the
interest of the child, not on the ground
that she was unfit to bring it up, but on the
rather characteristically English ground
that the social position of the child would
be impaired because of the prejudice
against the mother. I heard it well said
that this habit of reasoning would logically
lead to awarding any child to a parent who
was a Churchman rather than to a Dissent-
ing-parent. But the "Times" made the
most important admission when it said, the
next day, that the same reasoning would
have taken away Stuart Mill, as a child,
from the custody of his father, who brought
him up very much as Mrs. Besant brought
up her child; namely, not to disbelieve re-
ligion or to believe it, but simply to post-
pone it. And the "Times" said frankly
that the only possible point of distinction
was to say that the social position of a boy
would be less affected by the unpopular
opinions of a father than that of a girl by
those of a mother; a distinction between
the rights of the sexes which naturally
calls forth some protest.	T. W. H.
—"Woman's Journal.'


IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED
			STATES.

Mr. Wadleigh, from the Committee on
Priviliges and Elections, submitted the fol-
lowing report: To accompany bill S. Res. 12.

The Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
whom was referred the resolution (S. Res.
12) ropo[-]ing an amendment to the Consti-
tution of the United States, and certain pe-
titions for aud remonstra [-]ces against the
same, ma[-]e the following report;
This proposed amendment forbids the
United States or any State to deny or
abridge the right to vote on account of sex.
If adopted, it will make several millions
of female voters, totally inexperienced in
political affairs, quite generally dependent
upon the other sex, all incapable, of per-
forming military duty and without the pow-
er to enforce the laws which their numeri-
cal strength may enable them to make, and
comparatively very few of whom wish to
assume the irksome and responsible politi-
cal duties which this measure thrusts upon
them.
An experiment so novel, a change so
great, should only be made slowly and in
response to a general public demand, of the
existence of which there is no evidence be-
fore your committee.
Petitions from various parts of the coun-
try, containing by estimate about 30,000


names, have been presented to Congress
asking for this legislation.
	They were procured through the efforts
of woman-suffrage societies, thoroughly or-
ganized, with active and zealous managers.
The ease with which signatures may be
procured to any petition is well known.
The small number of petitioners, when
compared with that of the intelligent wo-
men in the country, is striking evidence
that there exists among them no general
desire to take up the heavy burden of gov-
erning, which so many men seek to evade.
It would be unjust, unwise, and impoli-
tic to impose that burden on the great mass
of women throughout the country who do 
not wish for it, to gratify the compartaively
few who do.
	It has been strongly urged that without
the right of suffrage women are and will
be subjected to great oppression and injus-
tice.
	But every one who has examined the sub-
ject at all knows that without female suf-
frage legislation for years has improved and
is still improving the condition of woman.
The disabilities imposed upon her by the
common law have, one by one, been swept
away until in most of the States she has the
full right to her property and all, or nearly
all the rights which can be granted without
impairing or destroying the marriage rela-
tion. These changes have been wrought
by the spirit of the age, and are not, gen-
erally at least, the result of any agitation
by women in their own behalf.
	Nor can women justly complain of any
partiality in the administration of justice.
They have the sympathy of judges and par-
ticularly of juries to an extent which would
warrant loud complaint on the part of their
adversaries of the sterner sex. Their ap-
peals to legislatures against injustice are
never unheeded, and there is no doubt that
when any considerable part of the women
of any State really wish for the right to
vote it will be granted without the inter-
vention of Congress.
	Any Senate may grant the right of suf-
frage to women. Some of them have done
so to a limited extent, and perhaps with
good results. It is evident that in some
States public opinion is much more strongly
in favor of it than it is in others. Your
committee regard it as unwise and inexpe-
dient to enable three fourths in number of
the States, through an amendment to the
National Constitution, to force woman suf-
frage upon the other fourth in which the
public opinion of both sexes may be strong-
ly adverse to such a change.
	For these reasons, your committee report
back said resolution with a recommenda-
tion that it be indefinitely postponed.


32		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, [-]th East Street, between South
and 1st So[-]th Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 10[-]9.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
				MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. H. Richa[-]d. & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[-]rative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER [---] CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
