VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 1, 1878.	No. 7.


For the EXPONENT.
	TIME AND I.

I have a friend, the oldest one
	Upon the record of my years,
Who, watchful how my life doth run,
	Upon its every scene appears.
Never in haste, and never late,
	Silent, yet firm, he follows me;
Though I forget, or smile, or hate
	His presence, there is he-
When but a child, with ne'er a thought
	Of him, whether to blame or praise,
Each day some newer gift he brought,
	And woke my mind to fresh amaze.
What fairy stories then I heard,
	Of wondrous things I yet should see;
'Till I forgot the singing bird,
	And wistful, left my mother's knee.
Watching life's phantoms luring on
	The eager soul, through passing years;
I lost my treasures fast as won,
	Though pledged by hope and bought by tears.
And whether it be just, or wrong,
	To set such sentence in my rhyme,
The loss of youthtime, treasure, song,
	I charge it all, dear friends, to Time.
And when I name him gravely, s[-],
	It is because I can but see:
For all his vows made long ago,
	How little is fulfilled to me.
If in my glass I chance to look,
	(He told me time should make me fair)
I see youth's bright, fresh face he took,
	And left a weary woman's there.
And thus defrauded and denied
	Of woman's solace (as some say),
I pay a sigh to wounded pride,
	And quickly look the other way.
If from my heart upswells the song—
	(Time said my voice should grow more sweet),
And I my quavering notes prolong,
	My patient friends at last retreat.
Thongh I remonstrate 'gainst his will,
	And every firm resolve declare,
'Gainst all my arts, I find his skill
	Has added silver to my hair.
And though resigned to yield the rose
	The cheek in earlier years did wear,
I tremble now, for ah! who knows
	How soon he'll leave a wrinkle there.
Yet though he cheat and wound me sore,
	His tyranny an end must find,
For when I reach the other shore,
	His majesty must stay behind.
Ah! an immortal there to dwell,
	O'er loss and change no more to sigh;
With all life's promises fulfilled,
	How blest! to bid Old Time, good-by!
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	August 6, 1878.


[For the EXPONENT.
THOUGHTS ON THE WOMAN QUES-
TION.
BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When we see all thinking, far-seeing,
prophetic minds impressed with some
mighty principle, crude and chaotic though
it may be, and is, for there is ever the
germ, the nucleus to all things great and
small--but when we see such minds shaken
up--the "moving of the waters"--then look
for the Angel of Truth to descend to re-
store, to purify, to elevate, to invigorate,
and cause all such to pass from "under the
rod" and emerge into their native element,
from which they have been excluded, pro-
bably for wise and just reasons; we must
believe this, because God is a God of love
and justice, and all effects spring from
causes governed and controled by the grand
Potentate of the universe.  God is the Fa-
ther of all spirits, both His sons and His
daughters; can any thinking, reasonable
mind believe that He cares less for His
daughters than His sons?  Common sense
and the common feelings natural to every
parent negative such an idea.  Look into
the mechanism of woman as she came from
the hand of her Creator--study well both
mental and physical organism, study the
exquisite sensitiveness of both.  Her soul
--yes, she loves much; this shows that
God has bestowed on her a larger portion of
His Spirit.  What will she not bear and en-
dure for those she loves--her husband and
her children most especially?  Witness her
fortitude under trial; often in such has she
been indeed a help-meet unto man, and he
gratefully owns it; for there are very few
men who will not readily give to woman
the praise due her, if he has been the re-
cipient of her helping life! I maintain
that men can and do appreciate a good and
faithful wife; such words do not mean a
soft, obedient simpleton, who has not judg-
ment enough to decide what is right and 
what is wrong, but by a good wife I mean
a true friend, who studies his interests, his
welfare, his happiness, and even in the
small (?) affairs of every day life studies
what will please him, what will comfort
him, and shuns all that would annoy him;
if she requires something of him that she
thinks he will not grant, watch for the mo-
ment when his mind is unloaded of its
cares and he feels gentle and conciliative,
and I feel sure she will get her wish, if it
is within his reach.  I could elaborate this
subject, but enough is said--"a hint to the
wise is sufficient."
Young wife, do not think this too much;
it is, I assure you, only a hint. Would you
not act precisely the same to your brother,
or your sister, or friend, were you living
with either?  Surely you would.  There is
no subservience in doing right, such is
merely "the rudiments of an angel."
This is the age when the minds of the
masse, as I said in the beginning of this
article, when the minds of all nations seem
impressed with the desire to elevate wo-
man to a sphere from which they realize
she has declined, and to which all just and
candid minds desire to help to restore her.
There have been women in all ages who
have stood forth on the stage of life as the
Prima Donna of the age, showing the being
God made, and which men and the world
have unmade! and she has also helped to
unmake herself!  The last is the most
dreadful of all; to misrepresent ones self is
a fearful thing.  Alas! woman has done it,
and is still doing it, though many are awak-
ening to the great fact that she is a daugh-
ter of God, and equally responsible with
man for her course in life, where she is not
coerced.
	The woman question is the subject of the
day and age in which we live; I feel it will
be a work of time, as all great revolutions
usually are, yet I feel sure it is especially
woman's era, and that a change must come,
when woman can indeed be a helpmeet for
man.  Man is the brother of woman, her
co-partner; she is his sister, and they must
be co-operatives in the grand business of
saving life.  May each become more en-
lightened and walk understandingly, not
in plain ignorance of their mutual position,
of their inseparable "duetts."  I feel that
the generality of women need instruction
on that subject as much as men.  I have
seldom, if ever, seen a man who refused to
a woman the place she had worked herself
up to by her own ability, even if in some
measure she supplanted himself, if she was
really capable o[-] filling it, and he knew it;
he naturally loves a woman who is indeed
and in truth a helpmeet to him.  How
many a good man has been spoilt, ruined
often for the lack of just such a woman!
and many an inferior man has been raised
up to a platform from which he never after
descended, by the love and admiration he
has felt for some woman, who has come
like an angel of light upon his path, and
has walked side by side with him through
his after life, finding that "her ways were
ways of pleasantness, and all her paths were
peace."
	Let woman study herself, cultivate her-
self, her character, disposition temperament
and temper, holding her own, maintaining
her native dignity, knowing and asserting
her place, by simply taking the chair that
belongs to her, and then quietly and un-
sleepingly retaining possession with full
capability; and I assure you such a woman
will have all the queenship she craves, be
it what it may, for she will be irresistible,
and her own mind and her own character
will be to her a kingdom, over which she
will love to reign, and rejoice therein.
S. L. City, Aug. 24, 1878.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS FRANCIS E. Willard, the famous
Temperance Lecturer, delivered an address
upon that subject Tuesday evening, Aug.
20, at Yarmouth Camp-Ground.  Miss Cof-
fin, of Brooklyn, first made "some very
practical and forcible remarks on intemper-
ance, as seen in New York and its suburban
cities."  Miss Willard, it is said, held her
audience with an undivided attention.
"The ministers seated around and in front
of her proved by their eager listening atti-
tude that they had entirely forgotten St.
Paul and his ancient commands."
	THE DISTRESS caused by yellow fever is
truly appalling.  Deaths and new cases of 
the disease are daily telegraphed from the 
infected localities.  Calls for nurses and 
comforts for the sick are constantly being
made.  The Howard Associations seem to 
have contributed liberally, and the Irish
Relief Association now solicits aid from all
the Irish organizations and societies
throughout the country.  A telegram has
been sent to His Excellency President
Hayes, respectfully requesting him to ex-
ercise his discretionary power in appoint-
ing a special committee of the oldest physi-
cians and chemists in the country to invest-
tigate scientifically the cause, nature [and
treatment, and future prevention of this
fearful epidemic.  The dispatch is signed
by a number of prominent gentlemen of 
Memphis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
HEBER CITY, WASATCH CO.,
July 30, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
We were favored with having our beloved
sisters, Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Zina
D. Young on the stand, for the first time in
Heber. It was what we had long hoped
for.  President Margaret Muir, of the Re-
lief Society, with her Counselors, and Pres.
Anna Duke, of the Y. L. A., with her
Counselors, were also present on the stand.
After singing and prayer, President Muir
made a few opening remarks, expressing
her pleasure at the sisters' visit.
Miss Snow arose and said she was glad
to see so many of the brethren taking so
great an interest with the sisters of the
Relief Society.  She did not know how it
was with the sisters here, but if we were
united we could do much good.  The
Prophet Joseph Smith said that all the sis-
ters should be members of the Relief So-
ciety, and in Nauvoo chastity was a test of
fellowship. Let us learn refinement, honor
our positions, and go to meeting to get
spiritual food.  Let mothers pay their tith-
ing honorably, teaching their children to
observe these things, for it is mothers that
give tone to society.  She felt that she had
no spare time but what should be devoted
to the interest of Zion; she had many times
worked so hard before meeting time that
she had to pray to the Lord to give her
strength to get to meeting.  She was thank-
ful she had never spoken against Celestial
Marriage.  Some sisters had asked her "How
long shall we suffer these trials?" she an-
swered, until they are no longer a trial,
until we have got the victory over them.
Spoke of home-industries; dared not call
for a vote, lest we should be ashamed. She
told us to exercise faith, that the time may
come when we can raise mulberry trees
here.  The Prophet Joseph said the curse
would not be taken off the earth all at
once.  She said, speak not evil one of an-
other, for they that feared the Lord spoke
often one to another, and a book of remem-
brance was kept.  She did not wait for the
Lord to force her when she was told to do
anything. Made some further remarks in
regard to storing up wheat and planting
out beans.
Mrs. Zina D. Young next addressed the
meeting. She said:  "My brethren and
sisters, if I did not know this to be the
work of God I would not be on this stand;
but in the strength of the Lord we can do
what is required of us.  A gentleman said
to President Joseph Smith, 'How do you
control this people?'  He said he told them
what to do and they governed themselves.
The key to the baptism for the dead has
been restored, and the faster we work for
the dead the sooner they will be made
comfortable.  Jesus, in his mission, when
hungry and faint, had to pluck the ears of
corn by the way."  Referred to paying
tithing, for it will be by observing the laws
that we can be saved. * * *  She
said we needed the Holy Ghost at all times
and in all our business.  Spoke of evil in-
fluences that have crept among the people;
let mothers have a strict care of their
daughters, for they had better die than de-
file their bodies, for it will take a long time
to have the stain removed.  She said that
many who now seem to be in the shade
and pass unnoticed, will shine bright in
the kingdom of God.  The Lord has plant-
ed within us the germ of intelligence.
Never speak against the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, never mind who laughs at
it, but keep humble, we have got good
rulers.  When your little girls are eight
years old let them join the Young Ladies'
Association.  If the sisters would take the
EXPONENT, those who are able, and those
who are not club together and take it, it
would be a good help to them.  It would
be well if some of the ladies of Heber City
would go and learn medicine and surgery--
learn to set bones, rather than have to send
to a doctor who is not of our faith.  A doc-
tor was sent for to set a bone for a little
girl, and he said she would be a long time
before she would walk; but the sisters of
the Relief Society washed and anointed
her, and she recovered fast.
Pressdent Hatch endorsed what the sis-
ters had said, and was glad they had come
to visit us, He also would like some of
the ladies of Heber City to study the pro-
fession of medicine and surgery.
In the evening Miss E. R. Snow and
Mrs. Z. D. Young addressed the young la-
dies and gentlemen of Heber City.
Relief Society Quarterly report, from
May 2d, 1878, to August 3, 1878:
Donations received..................$4 05
Disbursed to poor..................... 3 15
Balance in Treasury................. 4 00
Wheat in store for Zion.............30 bu
ELLEN LEE, Secretary.
MANTI, Aug. 11, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Report of the meeting held in this city
June 18th, by Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. D.
Young and party.  We feel that we were
very greatly blessed by their brief sojourn
in our midst, and we hope and trust that
Providence will so order events that their
visit, with its attendant blessings and en-
joyments, may be repeated at no distant
day.  The subjoined is a copy of the min-
utes of that most interesting occasion.
The Society met by special appointment.
Opening prayer by President Petersen.
Choir sang "Come thou glorious day of
promise," also "When all thy mercies, O
my God."  The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted, after
which Miss Eliza R. Snow addressed the
meeting; said if the sisters wished to be
edified, they must lift their hearts in prayer
to God.  She spoke of the organization of
Relief Societies in the days of Joseph the
Prophet, said that Chastity was then a test
of qualification for membership.   *  *
Exhorted the sisters one and all to come
forward and become members of the Re-
lief Society, lest the few who were per-
forming all the labor should also receive all
the reward.  She felt thankful that she had
been permitted to maintain her integrity
and was still numbered with the faithful.
Spoke of the necessity of working out our
own salvation, if we ever expect to attain
it, and of the folly of wasting our talents
in seeking after the things of this life, and
thereby imperiling our soul's salvation.
The speaker then dwelt at some length
on the duties of Relief Societies, said that
it required much determination and wis-
dom to relieve  the wants of the poor in a
proper manner.  She thought it was the
duty of the Society to furnish suitable labor
for those who were able to work, and should
furnish gratuitous aid judiciously, and
guard against being imposed upon.  She
spoke very forcibly and understandingly
upon the duties of mothers to their chil-
dren, and also upon the necessity of meet-
ing together often, as she thought it assist-
ed the sisters greatly in overcoming the
trials of their life.  Said the sisters who
could never find time to go to meeting
would certainly fail to make her home
pleasant and happy.  Contrasted her with
the sister who takes pleasure in attending
the meetings of the Society, and neglects
none of the duties pertaining to life here-
after.  She dwelt at some length on the
subject of home-manufacture, and in the
course of her remarks requested all the la-
dies present who wore home-made hats to
rise to their feet, but was surprised at the
smallness of the number; she advised the
young ladies to make their hats as beauti-
ful as possible, but by all means to let their
adorning be the work of their own hands;
Said it was folly for us to sustain Babylon,
when we were able to sustain ourselves, if
we would only take steps in the right di-
rection.  Said we should bear all our trials
in humility, and should by no means do
wrong because wrong is done to us, and
that we should turn a deaf ear to false sym-
pathizers and strive to overcome our evil
natures.
Mrs. Zina D. Young expressed her plea-
sure at meeting with the sisters, and of the
good things to which we had already list-
ened.  She spoke of the beauties of Celes-
tial Marriage and of the ordinance of bap-
tism for the dead as a part of our religion.
Spoke of our duties to ourselves and to each
other, said if we each acted well our part
every day it was all that would be required
of us.
Exhorted the sisters to provide suitable
reading for their children, and made special
mention of the EXPONENT and "Juvenile
Instructor."  She then exhibited some
specimens of home-made silk, and exhorted
the sisters to increase their diligence in its
manufacture, that they might make their
apparel beautiful without any aid from
Babylon.
	Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, of Spring City, ex-
pressed her pleasure at meeting with the 
sisters, and bore her testimony to the truth
of what had been said.
Mrs. Amelia Goldsborough, of Nephi,
preferred to listen rather than speak, but
felt willing to respond when called upon.
Mrs. Petersen and Mrs. Williams, of Eph-
raim, bore a faithful testimony to the truth,
and hoped the sisters would redouble their
diligence in home manufacture.
Pres. Maiben felt thankful to the visiting
sisters for their kindly words of good cheer,
and hoped we should all go on our way re-
joicing, in consequence of the many good
words that had been spoken unto us.
Brother Folsom said he felt highly hon-
ored by having the privilege of meeting
with the sisters. Spoke of the goodness
of God towards His people, if they were
only willing to receive His instructions.
He hoped the sisters would influence their
husbands to renewed diligence in working
on the Temple.
Mrs. Rebecca Wareham announced a
joint meeting in the evening for the Young
Ladies' and Young Men's M. I. A., and
heartily endorsed what had been said by
those who had spoken, especially that
which relates to home-manufacture.  Sang
"Let Zion in her beauty rise."  Benedic-
tion by Pres't. Maiben.
R. WAREHAM, Sec'y.


We have on hand for publicatian R. S.
Reports from Mink Creek, Wellsville, Mill-
ville, Hyrum, Spring City, Ephraim, May-
field, also some Correspondence, Woman’s
Voice, and Poems.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
	A MOTHER'S TRIBUTE.

'Tis fourteen years ago today since heaven sent to me
A winsome, black-eyed baby-girl, as sweet as she could be;
And when I took her in my arms, her cherub face to
	view,
I felt a strange, ecstatic joy, that thrilled me through
    and through.
I watched my darling as she grew, so artless, pure and
	mild,
And sometimes sighed to think that she could not remain
	a child;
But now that fourteen sunny years have fled since she
	was born,
She seems as much a babe to me as on that natal morn.
And thus, I think, 'twill ever be—as on the seasons roll,
The babe will still remain a babe, while tarries here my
	soul;
Yet, should she live, the time must come when she will
	surely see
A woman in her looking-glass, whate'er my thoughts
	may be.
And when that time does come, I know her mirror will
	reveal
The face of one whose character is bright as polished
	steel;
She'll be as full of love and faith and pure as she is now,
And virtue's self will sit enthroned upon my darling's
	brow.
'Tis true she'll find life's pathway strewn with thorns as
	well as flowers,
And she, when sorely pierced, may sigh for childhood's
	happy hours;
But whether she be filled with foy, or 'neath the chast'-
	ning rod,
She'll have the same dislike for wrong, the same sweet
	trust in god.
My darling, oh my darling! As time speeds on his way,
You'll find another love than mine to comfort you some
	day—
A deep and thrilling sentiment. which you will think di-
	vine,
A love that may be mere intense, but not more true than
	mine.
'Tis right that you should make new friends as through
	the world you glide,
I cannot hope to keep you, love, forever at my side;
'Tis right that you should form new ties—'tis nature's
	great behest;
Nor would; [clip thy wings, sweet dove, to keep thee in my
	nest.
But this I know—whate'er your lot, wherever you may
	rove,
You[-]l still possess, in all its depth, a parent's holy love;
Whether beneath the parent wing, or on life's troubled
	sea,
God bless my bonnie, black-eyed girl—wherever she may
	be.
	A. L. B.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.
	We prospered in all our efforts to accu-
mulate wealth, so much so, that among
our friends it came to be remarked that
nothing of my husband's ever got lost on
the lake, and no product of his exportation
was ever low in the market, always ready
sales and fair prices.  We had neither of
us ever made any profession of religion,
but, contrary to my early education, I was
naturally religious, and I expressed to my
husband a wish that we should unite our-
selves with one of the churches, after ex-
amining into their principles and deciding
for ourselves.  Accordingly, we united our-
selves with the Campbellites, who were
then making many converts, and whose
principles seemed most in accordance with
the Scriptures.  We continued in that
church, which was to us the nearest pat-
tern to our Savior's teaching, until Parley
P. Pratt and another Elder preached the
Everlasting Gospel in Kirtland.
	Sidney Rigdon was then a great Camp-
bellite preacher.  He received the Gospel
at the house of Isaac Morley, who, was the
[---] to embrace the truth in that Vicinity.

[Column 2]
When I heard that these Elders were
preaching without money, or remuneration
of any kind, and more especially when I
knew Bro. Morley had received them into
his house and had united himself to their
faith, and that they were opposed to all
priestcraft, I felt an earnest desire to hear
their principles proclaimed, and to judge
for myself; accordingly, I went immediately
to hear, and as soon as I heard the Gospel
as the Elders preached it, I knew it to be
the voice of the Good Shepherd. and went
home rejoicing, to tell my husband the
news; he was convinced that I was entirely
sincere, and wished to hear them, that he
might also receive with me a full assurance;
he asked me if I would wait for him to be-
come convinced, that we might together
enter the fold through the waters of bap-
tism; but  strong "impression bore witness
in my heart, that now was the accepted
time, and the day of salvation." I had then
a babe in arms and two older children liv-
ing, and two I had laid away until the Res-
urrection.  My convictions were so strong,
that much as I desired my husband to par-
ticipate in these blessings, I felt impressed
that I must not wait, and I was baptized
immediately.  My husband, however, ex-
amined the doctrine and was himself bap-
tized within a few days.  This was in Nov.,
1830.  Soon after this many false spirits
began to manifest themselves, and many
were deceived by these misrepresentations;
the power of these spirits was terrible;
some persons under their influence imag-
ined  they could read the word of the Lord
out of their own hands in letters of gold;
it was a terrible time of temptation.
	In December of the same year, Joseph
Smith, with his wife, Emma, and a servant
girl, came to Kirtland in a sleigh; they
drove up in front of my husband's store;
Joseph jumped out and went in; he reached
his hand across the counter to my husband,
and called him by name.  My husband, not
thinking it was any one in whom he was
interested, spoke, saying: "I could not call
you by name as you have me."  He an-
swered, "I am Joseph the Prophet; you
have prayed me here, now what do you
want of me?"  My husband brought them
directly to our own house; we were more
than glad to welcome them and share with
them all the comforts and blessings we en-
joyed.  I remarked to my husband that
this was the fulfillment of the vision we
had seen of a cloud as of glory resting upon
our house.  And during the time they re-
sided with us, and under our roof, were
many of the revelations given which are
recorded in the Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants.
	Just previous to the Gospel being
preached in Kirtland I had made all need-
ful preparations for a visit to my parents in
Connecticut; but after receiving the Gos-
pel I abandoned the idea, determing to
devote my life, my energies and all that I
possessed, towards sustaining and building
up the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
My whole heart was in the great work of
the last dispensation, and I took no thought
of my own individual comfort and ease.
Joseph and Emma were very dear to me,
and with my own hands I ministered to
them, feeling it a privilege and an honor
to do so.
	Aunt Sarah, who had always lived with
me, and felt a sort of supervision of every-
thing pertaining to my welfare and happi-
ness, and who had been a true and faithful
friend to us, under all circumstances, was
very much disconcerted by the turn things
had taken; she looked upon Joseph like all
other preachers, and did not like to see us

[Column 3]
made the dupes of priestcraft, which was
her version of all religious doctrine and
opinions; and acting upon her own theory
and responsibility, when my husband was
absent with the Prophet Joseph upon busi-
ness, and I was in delicate health, and un-
able to attend to any domestic duties, she
took the opportunity to rid herself and us
of the family, considering it not only an
incumbrance, but an entirely unnecessary
inconvenience.  I would have shared the
last morsel with either of them, and was
grieved beyond comparison when I found
what she had done; but she had a good
motive in it, and really thought she was
consulting the best interests of those who
were far dearer to her than her own life;
her devotion and her power of self-sacrifice
towards us individually were unlimited,
but her efforts, like those of many other
sincere and ardent friends, were misdi-
rected.
	(To be continued.)


VISIT TO RELIEF SOCIETIES.

	Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. E. Davis returned Thursday eve-
ning from the Northern and Eastern settle-
ments, where they have been visiting the
sisters' organizations, holding meetings, etc.
These sisters were received everywhere
joyously, and cordially welcomed, every
hospitality and courtesy extended them to
facilitate the interests in which they were
laboring. The people came out in crowds
to greet them welcome, and to bid them
farewell on leaving in the different towns.
They were hungry for the spiritual instruc-
tion these sisters were able to impart to
them. The sisters organized Young La-
dies' Mutual Improvement Associations in
three districts; assisted the Bishop at Hen-
neferville in re-organizing a Relief Society,
also assisted in organizing a Relief Society
in Echo City. The sisters in their meet-
ings advised the Societies everywhere to
maintain a spirit of unity, to co operate to-
gether in home-industries and all good
works; to become self-sustaining as fast as
possible; and those who were aliens to be-
come citizens, by taking out naturalization
paper. Instructed them on the subject of
the franchise, the benefits resulting from
it, and urged them to avail themselves of
the privilege allowed women in this Terri-
tory, in voting, and to seek to understand
the subject of government.
	These sisters have been absent nearly a 
month, except Mrs. Horne, who joined
them in Ogden at the Relief Society Con-
ference, and has been traveling with them
two weeks. They have held twenty-nine
meetings, sometimes three in one day.
They visited Mendon, Hyrum, Wellsville,
Paradise, Brigham City, Ogden, Morgan,
Richville, Milton, Littleton, Croyden, East
and West Porterville, North and South
Morgan, Echo City, Coalville, and Henne-
ferville.
	A tour like this for a lady of Miss Snow's
age is rather wonderful, and there are few
women in the world who would think they
could endure the fatigue of traveling as she
does at her time of life. The party have all
enjoyed excellent health during their absence
from home, although much of the journey
from place to place had to be performed in
lumber wagons. We expect to publish a
fuller account of their visit and labors in
our next issue.


WE are haunted by an ideal life, and it
is because we have within us the beginning
and the possibility of it. --Phillips Brooks.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   - Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
    Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building; East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
        SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
	﻿EQUAL PAY FOR EQUAL WORK.

	Various methods have been taken in differ-
ent parts of the United States, to secure the
same remuneration for labor to women as is
given to men for the same class of work. On
this subject more has perhaps been said in fa-
vor of women teachers than any other depart-
ment of labor, possibly because there are more
women engaged as teachers in proportion to
men than any other work. Statistics are
brought forward to substantiate the value of
the services of men and women in dollars and
cents, as estimated by their employers and
those who have charge of educational bureaus.
The increase in the proportion of women
teachers within the last thirty years has been
exceedingly great, especially in New England,
and the price of their work has risen, too,
though perhaps it has not reached a just pro-
portion to the labor as yet. In  most cases there
is a vast difference in the wages of men and
those of women employed as teachers. “But in
some States, as in Iowa, the rule is becoming
general to pay men and women the same sala-
ry for the same grade of work. In the city of
St. Louis no distinction is made between the
sexes in fixing the teachers’ salaries; and the
California Legislature of 1873 enacted that the
female teachers in the public schools should in
all cases receive the same compensation as men
for like services. A few of the Southern States,
which employ more men than women, pay the
same salary for the same work to both sexes;
and Idaho, Nevada and Arizona report the
same custom.”
	Some of the most noted men of the time, well
acquainted with educational labor in all its va-
rious departments have borne this testimony
in favor of women teachers, believing them to
be better adapted to the work than men. Hor-
ace Mann considered the growing increase of
women teachers a great reform, on account of
their superior adaptability to the work. The
prices paid to teachers of both sexes now is
very much higher than formerly, and the
qualifications necessary to secure situations are
very much greater.
	In the primitive days of the country, and in
rural districts especially not so very long ago,
and even yet in some remote localities, teach-
ers did not necessarily possess a fountain of
knowledge on any subject—in fact the govern-
ment was considered the chief requisite, and
“Can she make the children mind?” was more
often asked than any other question, in refer-
ence to a teacher. Ruling with the rod was
THE RULE, and wo to the refractory urchin, as
many of the grandfathers and grandmothers
of to-day can testify.
	The custom of boarding round, which was
some years since very common, is now almost
abolished, though Harper's Monthly Magazine

[Column 2]
for September says that 'it is still in vogue in
many places, and that in one district in Penn-
sylvania all the teachers receive $15 a month
and board in this manner. Who but the vic-
tim himself (or herself) can describe the mise-
ries of boarding round in rambling country
villages—of living for a week or month on tea
and pie, and then only exchanging the fare for
pie and tea; of sleeping under leaky roofs, up-
on pillows which the rains and snows of heav-
en bedow; of shivering in breakfast rooms
where, if a drop of water fell upon the table-
cloth, though the stove be in close proximity it
is instantly frozen? And yet the physical dis-
comforts are often the least of the homeless
teacher’s trials.”
	There is much hard labor and much real pleas-
ure connected with teaching, and in our opin-
ion a great deal depends upon fitness and adap-
tability to the work. It is said by some it is
woman’s special mission to teach and we agree
in this assertion, but all women are not good
teachers, nor do all succeed well who under-
take it. Because persons possess a good store
of information on the subjects to be taught, it
does not follow that they can impart it to oth-
ers understandingly, but teaching like other
avocations not only requires preparation and
training, but one must have a love for it either
natural or cultivated; great patience and the
peculiar tact of being comprehensive in im-
parting instruction.
	When a person having tact, talent, education
and a desire to impart knowledge to others,
enters the profession as a teacher it is but just,
such a person should receive suitable remuner-
ation for services rendered. The mere fact of
being a woman should not deprive one of the
worth of their labor. It seems simply absurd
to make all sorts of worn-out pretexts against
woman’s wages being equal to man’s in such
classes of work as she can perform equally well
and many times even better.
	The very fact that women continue in the
occupation of teaching, longer than men,
should militate in favor of their receiving at
least as large a salary as men do. Slowly wo-
man’s cause is advancing, and the good exam-
ple set in St. Louis, Iowa and some particular
sections of the country, will be emulated by
others, and by thus securing justice to women-
teachers it will give encouragement to continue
in the labor to those perhaps who might oth-
erwise grow weary in the work, for however
enthusiastic one may be—one must eat and
drink, and provide for the wants of nature,
and often single women employed as teachers
have aged or invalid relatives dependent upon
them, or orphaned children of those beloved.
Teaching is hard work, and should be well-
paid, and teachers do a great share of the work
of molding and making society. The mothers
form the groundwork perhaps, the teacher
builds on and weaves in, and although people
think little of the teachers Individual princi-
ples or religion, yet this should be one of the
first considerations, for teachers have much to
do in forming the mind and character of the
pupil.
	The writer previously referred to in this ar-
ticle says in speaking of women continuing in
the employment of teaching. “Those who
contend that teaching with women is apt to
be a temporary resort more than with men,
have only to look around them to become con-
vinced of their mistake. Almost any New
Englander can count among his personal ac-
quaintances women who have taught from
fifteen to thirty years, and who will probably
die in the harness. One of the Boston teach-
ers—a single woman—died recently after teach-
ing in one of the primary schools for forty

[Column 3]
years.” Col. Higginson’s report when one of
the school committee in Rhode Island gave
the average time of service in teaching of men
and women—female teachers, eight—seventeen
years; male teachers, three—eight years.
	It seems to us as if every clear-headed intel-
ligent person should at once recognize the fact
that equal services equally rendered should of
themselves demand equal remuneration in
whatever department or class of labor. And
in these days when so much is said about jus-
tice, it does seem exceedingly strange that
there should be any quibbling on the subject.
There are many other classes of work beside
school-teaching that want equalizing and the
world will come to it by and by, and the fact
of sex will not stand in the way of equal pay
for equal work. There is a good time coming
and this will be one of the issues of that good
time.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN COMPLIANCE with requests made by sev-
eral ladies, Dr. Ellen B. Eerguson will open a
medical class for ladies on the 1st of October.
The course will inclnde instructions in Anato-
my, Physiology, Obstetrics, Puerperal Diseases
and Diseases of Children. Instruction will
also be given in the medicinal properties of
herbs and plants, and their uses in domestic
practice, thus enabling those who are at a dis-
tance from proper medical aid to meet the ear-
liest symptoms of disease intelligently. Those
applying immediately for tickets can pay a
portion of the fees in grain, dried fruit, or pro-
duce. For terms apply to Dr. E. B. Ferguson,
First East Street, or to the Editor of the EXPO-
NENT.
	THE BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.—Through
the politeness of Mrs. M. J. Tanner, we have
received the Circular of the B. Y. Academy at
Provo, Utah Co. The Academical year con
sists of four terms of ten weeks each. The
first term commenced August 26, 1878. The
Academical Department consists of four
courses:
	1st. Commercial Course Bookkeeping. The-
oretical and Practical Commercial Arithmetic
and Penmanship.
	2d. Polytechnic Course—Algebra, Geometry,
Surveying and Drafting.
	3d. Scientific Course—Chemistry, Physics,
Geology and Natural Philosophy, alternating
as follows: Mineralogy In the 1st Term, Botany
2d Term, Zoology 3d Term, Physiology 4th
Term.
	4th. Language Course—Rhetoric, Phono-
graphy, Latin and German.
	In connection with this there is a complete
Normal Course, theoretical and practical,
which extends over a period of two Academical
years. Practical teachers may attend for a
much shorter time, special provisions being
made for their benefit. There is also a Musical
Department in operation. The B. Y. Academy
is in charge of Prof. Karl G. Maeser, with com-
petent assistants in different departments.
	ELDERS JUNIUS F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy
and John Craner returned Tuesday, Aug. 27th,
from a short Missionary tour in the interest of
the Y. M. M. I. Associations. These brethren
have been absent two months, and have visited
and held meetings in Box Elder Cache, Bear
Lake, Rich, Morgan, Summit and Wasatch
Counties. They have effected Stake organiza-
tions of the Y. M. M. I. A. in these Counties,
have held sixty meetings, in the interests of the
young people’s Associations, have advocated
monthly joint sessions of the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Y. M. M. I. A. They have advised the As-


sociations everywhere to secure libraries and to
make these libraries the repositories of Church
works, introducing a systematic programme for
mental work which aims to popularize the
study of the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Church
History—these forming a solid, religious basis;
afterwards introducing Histories, Books of
Travel, Biography, and such a class of reading
as tends to cultivate a taste for a high order of
literature. Everywhere these young brethren
have been received gladly, and the most hos-
pitable welcome extended to them.  Their aim
has been to suggest the best methods for spirit-
ual educational work, and awaken a growing
interest on the subject of improvement in the
hearts of the young people, by introducing
regular methods of disciplining the mind and
heart. Many of the meetings they held have
been very numerously attended, and no doubt
much good seed has been sown that will event-
ually bear rich fruit.
	GRADED SCHOOL—On Monday, Sept. 2d, a
thoroughly Graded School will be opened in
the Social Hall, under the supervision of Miss
Ida Ione Cook, whose superior qualifications
as an efficient teacher are well known.  Special
attention is to be given to deportment, obedi-
ence and honesty as well as to study. The
Grades are, Primary, $3 00; Intermediate, $4.00;
Grammar, $5.00.  The Grammar Grade will be
in charge of Miss May M. Wells, who has had
a good practical experience in teaching, and is
thoroughly qualified in all the various branches
taught in this department.  Miss Anna Lynch,
teacher of the Intermediate Grade, has been
very successful in securing good behavior and
atten tion from her pupils heretofore, and is
well qualified for the position.  Miss Louie
Snelgrove, in charge of the Primary Grade,
stands pre-eminent among teachers in that
line.  Miss Mary E. Cook, the Principal and
Founder of this school, has taken great pains
to qualify her teachers, and has insisted upon
thorough work.  She is absent now, having
gone recently to St. George, to aid in that vi-
cinity in establishing and getting into work-
ing order a system of Graded Schools. Miss
Cook, having had much experience in teach-
ing and preparing others, is eminently well
qualified for this department of educational
work, and has already accomplished much
towards furthering the interests of education
in this Territory.  Her unselfish devotion to
the cause of education, and untiring persever-
ance under the most unpropitious circum-
stances, deserve the highest encomium of
praise from those who have received the bene-
fits of her arduous labors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE TO THE SISTERS.

	WITH A desire to disseminate and increase a
true knowledge of the laws of life and health,
I intend delivering a course of five lectures,
comprising the different phases in woman's
life from the cradle to the grave. This is to be
a popular course, adapted to the understanding
of every maiden, wife and mother, in a mea-
sure divested of technical terms and abstruse
points, but calculated to prepare woman for
the great and responsible duties of motherhood.
"Know thyself" is a maxim particularly suited
to woman, and when she is properly educated
a certain portion of the medical science will
be made an important part of that education.
If a husband, or father, desires to confer a fa-
vor upon his wife, or daughter, that will prove
of lasting benefit, let him give her the oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the laws
that govern her own organism, and it will in-
deed redound to her welfare as well as to the
vital interest of future generations.
	In addition to the above, I will teach a class
in Obstetrics and Direases of Women, with the


object of qualifying women for the important
offices of nurse and accoucheur. Every Ward
in our city, and especially should every town
and village in the Territory, be provided with
one or more persons thoroughly trained and
educated for this avocation. Not many days
since, our Brother, Hon. G. Q. Cannon, re-
marked, "I have no doubt but many lives
could be saved, if this knowledge was more
widely spread." Our own experience will en-
force the truth of these words, for how fre-
quently we hear of women's lives being jeop-
ardized and lost for want of a skill and knowl-
edge in the proper season. Then, in the lan-
guage of the great statesman, "We must edu-
cate! We must educate!!"
	This undertaking is one long premeditated
and advised, by those who have the best inter-
ests of the whole people at heart, and we hope
it will be endorsed and supported by our breth-
ren and sisters throughout the Territory.  Any
communications on the subject address to
	E. R. SHIPP, M. D.
	SALT LAKE CITY.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We, the young ladies of the 17th Ward Mu-
tual Improvement Asseciation, desire, through
the columns of the EXPONENT, to express our
sympathy for the family and friends of our de-
parted and much loved sister and friend, Miss
Florence Emily Dunford.
	As a member of our Association, she was
punctual and ever ready to perform the parts
assigned her.  As a Sabbath School attendant,
she won the esteem of her teacher, Mrs. Julia
Howe, and her class-mates, by her attention
and lady-like manners.
	We know she has gone where sorrow and
pain are no more.  Her departure certainly
teaches the uncertainty of life, even in youth,
and it now remains for us to lead such pure
lives that we may join our dear Flossie when
our time shall come.
	MISS BELLE CLAYTON, President,
	MISS SEDENIA PACK, Ass't Secretary.

	DIED, in Fillmore City, Aug. 7, 1878, of
Cholera Infantum, Charles Francis, son of
Charles R. and Rhoda Alice McBride, aged 2
years, 3 months and 19 days.
	Little Francis, pure and loving,
	Gently passed from earth away.
	MARY A. MCBRIDE.

	[From "Deseret News."]
	DIED, In Coveville District, Cache Co,, at 8
p. m., Tuesday, Aug. 20th, from the effects of
severe injuries received, both internal and ex-
ternal, by the falling and rolling of a horse,
William Frederick, son of Mark and the late
Ellen Comish Preece.
	Deceased was born at Franklin, Oneida Co.,
Idaho, November 19th, 1867.
	At Alpine City, Utah Co,, Utah Territory,
on Saturday morning, August 24, 1878, princi-
pally of heart disease, Matilda, wife of Bishop
Thomas J. McCullough, of Alpine, aged 37
years and 10 months.
	Sister McCullough had been more or less af-
flicted for five or six years past, a portion of
that time suffering intensely, and for the last
three months her sufferings have increased un-
til it has been almost surprising how a human
being could bear it, although every attention
and care that could be has been used by both
family and friends for her re[-]ie[-].


The funeral services were held at Alpine
meeting-house on Sunday, when very excel-
lent remarks were made by Bishop L. E. Har-
rington, of American Fork, Elders Wm. H.
Kelsey, of Springville, and Wm. J. Strong, of
Alpine. The singing of the combined choirs
of American Fork and Alpine, was both beau-
tiful and appropriate. The citizens, en masse,
of Alpine, as well as many from Salt Lake and
the neighboring settlements, showed their
grert respect for the deceased and bereaved, by
their presence and expressions of sympathy.
The services were concluded at the cemetery
by a dedicatory prayer by Father Zebedee Colt-
rin of Spanish Fork. The sympathy for Bro.
McCullough and family in their bereavement
is unanimous.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co., Aug. 6[-]h, 1878.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	According to your request that I should re-
port as soon as we got started in this new move,
which is called the Primary M. I. A., I now do
so with pleasure. On Sunday, Aug. 11, 1878,
Bishop Hess and Counselors ordained and set
apart three persons to preside over the Associ-
ation spoken of, your humble servant being one
of the number, and Sisters Louisa Haight and
Helen M. Miller, Counselors. At the sugges-
tion of the Bishop we visited nealy every
house in the Ward, and registered the names
of one hundred and fifteen boys and one hun-
dred girls between the ages of six and fourteen
years, excepting a few who would be six years
old in a few months. I think this idea of
Bishop Hess a good one, for a number of the
people had heard nothing about it, and there-
fore would not have sent their children. The
people generally have entered into the spirit of
the move, and say, "anything for the improve-
ment of our children.
	On Sunday, Aug. 25th, we held our first
meeting. It was not quite a success, on ac-
count of unforeseen hindrances and some of
the children not knowing the hour of meeting.
After making an attempt to class them (for we
think it best to commence at district number
one, and place so many boys upon a bench,
calling them a class, taking the oldest one of
the number and placing him at the head as
monitor, in order to have their help and give
them a little responsibility; proceeding in the
same manner with the girls,) we explained
why they had been called together, and what
improvement meant, after which we adjourned
until Sept. 7th, which will be on Saturday;
the hour to be three o'clock p. m., and we ex-
pect to hold meetings weekly. Am anxious to
hear from other wards, as I have heard nothing
as yet.
	Your sister and co-laborer,
	AURELIA S. ROGERS.


A DREAM.

	MISS EVE CHARLSON.

	The night before Elder Thaine went to visit
them she dreamed she saw two large pillars,
and between them a very high place, and a
man standing upon it with an upraised sword
in one hand, and a great multitude of people
standing around looking and listening to him;
and on each pillar was inscribed in large letters
these words:
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.
	Mount Pleasant, Canada.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	RELIEF SOCIETY QUATERLY CON-
	FERENCE. 

	WEBER STAKE OF ZION.

	This Conference was held in the Taber-
nacle in Ogden City, Thursday and Friday,
Aug. 15 and 16; the first two day's meet-
ing the sisters have ever held, which makes
it quite an event in the history of the wo-
men of Utah. Mrs. Jane S. Richards, with
her Counselors, Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs.
Sarah A. Herrick, presided.  Conference
opened at 10 a.m. on Thursday.  On the
stand with the officers of Relief Society
Stake were Pres. D. H. Peery, of Weber
Stake of Zion, and some Bishops of Ogden,
Bishop Hammond, of Huntsville, and re-
presentative ladies, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
B. W. Smith, Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. E. Davis,
of Salt Lake City.  The Conference opened
with singing and prayer, in the usual man-
ner; then the Secretary, Mrs. A. M. Frods-
ham, read the minutes of the last Quar-
terly meeting, Financial Report of Ogden
Relief Society, and the reports of the va-
rious branches of that Stake.  The congre-
gation was large, and sisters from all the
settlements in the county were present.
The reports were creditable, representing
the condition of each branch spiritually,
industrially and in benevolent and charita-
ble pursuits.  Pres. Richards made a few
congratulatory remarks, and Miss E. R.
Snow then addressed the meeting in her
usual spiritual and interesting manner.
Pres. Peery then spoke appreciatively of
the labors of the sisters, in benevolence, in
storing grain, in doing business, and all
the associations and pursuits in which they
are called to labor.  Elder Shirtliff, of
Harrisville, spoke upon faith and the ordi-
nances for the sick, storing grain and other
subjects.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Convened at 2 o'clock.  After opening
services Mrs. M. I. Horne, Pres. of Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society, addressed the
meeting. Her remarks were mostly upon
woman's duties and responsibilities, the
work of Relief Societies, the storing of
grain, the training of children, the fran-
chise, the inheritance of daughters; re-
ferred to the days of Moses, when the Lord
spoke concerning the daughters of Zeloph-
iad.  Miss E. R. Snow then delivered an
eloquent address upon the disciplining and
educating of children, their spiritual culti-
vation, evil influences and their effect;
made reference to the origin of a plan to
inaugurate a system of Primary Associa-
tions; alluded to the faith, gifts and bless-
ings manifested among the children in the
the early days of the Church, and the lack
of them at the present time.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith thought it was time
for parents to awaken to the exigencies of
the hour, for we wanted our little boys to
become Bishops and great men, and our
little girls companions and helpmeets for
them.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young exhorted the sisters
to live their religion, honor God and His
laws, and live faithfully every principle of
the Gospel; if it was plural marriage, honor
it, hold it sacred, and the Holy Ghost would
bless and strengthen all who desired to
carry out the revelations of God.  She said
we have been resting here thirty years, is it
any compliment to us to send our children
away to be educated?  Should we go to the
nations of the earth to gather in scattered
Israel, and let our children grow up in infi-
delity? She believed much of the unbelief

[Column 2]
could be traced to the fireside, and the ne-
glect of parents to fulfill duties that were
sacred.  Bishop Hammond, of Huntsville,
commended the sisters for their earnest-
ness and diligence; felt the Relief Socie-
ties were a great help to the Bishops. Pres.
Richards made some brief remarks and in-
vited the little children and parents to
meet at the Tabernacle at half past eight
on the following morning, when Miss E. R.
Snow and other sisters would speak to them
on the subject of a Primary Association.
Thus closed the first day of the Conference.
	&HILDREN'S MEETING.
	At half past eight o'clock on Friday
morning the Tabernacle was well filled with
parents and children, anxiously expectant,
and when Miss Snow rose to address them
they were all attention.  The Spirit of the
Lord rested upon the speakers, and all felt
it to be a memorable occasion.  The Secre-
tary recorded the names of nearly three
hundred children who desired to become
members of a Primary Association.
	Conference convened at 10 o'clock on Fri-
day.  There were present on the stand, be-
sides the President of the Stake and Coun-
selor Middleton, officers of Relief Society,
and ladies who were present the previous
day, Elder D. M. Stuart and Prof. Monch,
of Ogden, Junius F. Wells and Milton H.
Hardy, who are traveling together in the
interest of Y. M. M. I. A., and Mrs. S.
M. Kimball, Mrs. S. S. Young, Mrs. S. M.
Heywood and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. The first business was the re-
ports of the Y. L. M. I. A., read by the
Secretary, Mrs. R. Monch, who acquitted
herself excellently well in that capacity.
The reports represented the Society in good
condition, spiritually and financially.  Mrs.
E. B. Wells addressed the meeting, dwell-
ing upon practical development, and the
higher cultivation of mental powers and
spiritual attributes, the mission of woman,
her influence in home and society, and the
necessity of becoming self-sustaining.  Mrs.
S. M. Kimball said in the past the sisters, in
their organizations, had been mostly en-
gaged in works of charity and benevolence;
now the sphere was enlarged, and one of
the subjects we should inform ourselves
upon was social science, for the women of
Utah had a responsibility resting upon
them in this direction.  Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood spoke upon the training of children,
the work now in contemplation among
them, the great field for woman's labor,
and the need of wisdom and diligence.
Bishop F. A. Brown said he always liked
to hear women talk; said the Saints had
many things taught to them that the world
would not receive; in our weakness we had
received them, and in seeking to carry
them out we sometimes made crooked
paths; we are all in the school and trying
to do better.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Meeting convened at the usual hour, and
opened with singing and prayer.  Mrs. H.
A. Snow addressed the meeting on woman's
organizations generally, the good results,
the efforts made to establish home-indus-
tries in Box Elder Co., of the increasing
responsibilities of woman and the need of
grace and humility.  Msss E. R. Snow then
spoke upon the principles of the Gospel,
the duties of home-work, the listlessness of
the Saints, the mission given to us in the
spirit world, warned the sisters not to be
governed by their feelings, but by princi-
ple. Made some excellent remarks upon
Celestial marriage, told that large congre-
gation that the principle of plural marriage

[Column 3]
was taught her by Joseph Smith the Proph-
et; related part of a conversation between
herself and the wife of the American Min-
ister to Greece; the lady acknowledged
that if she had such testimony as Miss
Snow assured her she had, she should for-
get herself in her desire to fulfill her mis-
sion.  Miss Snow closed by saying the or-
ganization of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber
Stake would be deferred for the present.
Mrs. E. Davis made a few remarks, and re-
cited a poem upon "Plural Marriage," com-
posed many years since by John Jaques.
Counselor C. Middleton said the majority
ruled; and as women were greatly in the
majority he was acting under orders in
speaking. Spoke upon the responsibility
of mothers, the home education, the storing
of grain, and many other things.  Bishop
McQuarrie said he remembered once talk-
ing to a congregation of sisters when it
was too stormy for the brethren to turn out.
Spoke of the grain and granaries, and
urged the brethren to assist the sisters in
this matter.  Elder David M. Stuart said
the sisters were a power in Utah and it was
being felt here and elsewhere; said the
Bishops in Ogden were going to help the
sisters in building granaries.  He felt that
the sisters were assisting socially and reli-
giously to establish the government of God.
President Richards announced the adjourn-
ment of the Conference for three months,
and the meeting closed with singing and
prayer.
	These are but a very few of the many
precious things spoken by the sisters and
brethren. It is impossible to publish all,
there is so much good instruction given,
but this being the first two-days' meeting
we felt it would be a precedent for other
Stakes, and we know there is much work
to be done and comparatively few earnest
and efficient workers.
	Financial report of all the branches of
Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion,
from April 30th to Aug. 14th, 1878:
Receipts, in Cash and Merchandise.$199 30
Disbursed to those needing assis-
	tance.......................................... 122 23
To P. E. Fund..................................... 7  90
To Temple Fund............................... 67  40
To Missionary Fund.........................  2  00
To Welsh Fund.................................    18 00
	Total					 216 63
Property on hand............................... $1301 67
Cash on hand......................................    71 04
Wheat reported..................................      478 1/4 bu.
Amount of cocoons raised not known.
	A. M. FRODSHAM,
	Recording Sec'y R. S. for Weber Co.


ANNIVERSARY DAY.

NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION. 

	We have gathered, from the "National
Citizen and Ballot Box," items concerning
the Convention held in Rochester on Fri-
day, July 19, in the Unitarian Church. In
our issue of Aug. 15 we published notes of
the Business Meeting held the day previous.
At ten o'clock the delegates assembled; the
pulpit had been removed, making a larger
platform for the speakers. Rochester, now
called the "City of Flowers," had contrib-
uted of its beauty to the adornment of the
church, in bouquets, in twining wreaths
running through the low wire lattice, about
the platform, and in hanging clusters of
vines from chandeliers."
	"There was a pleasant interchange of
greetings from women whose homes are far


apart, but who are friends and co-workers
in this great reform." We would be glad
to republish more of the speeches made
and letters read than our small space will
admit of, but will try to give to our readers
extracts of importance from some of the
best speeches and letters.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton occupied
the chair, and made the opening address.
	"We are here to celebrate the third de-
cade of woman's struggle in this country
for liberty.
	Thirty years have passed since many of
us now present met in this same church to
discuss the true position of woman as a
citizen of a republic. The reports of our
first conventions show that those who inau-
gurated this movement understood the sig-
nificance of the term "citizens."
	At the very start we claimed full equality
with man. Our meetings were hastily
called and somewhat crudely conducted;
but we intuitively recognized the fact that
we were defrauded of our natural rights,
conceded in the National Constitution.
* * * * * *
	Look at the department of education,
the doors of many colleges and universi-
ties thrown wide open to women, girls con-
tending for, yea, and winning prizes from
their brothers.
	In the working world they are rapidly
filling places and climbing heights unknown
to them before, realizing, in fact, the
dreams, the hopes, the prophecies of the
inspired women of bygone centuries.
	In many departments of learning, woman
stands the peer of man, and when by high-
er education and profitable labor she be-
comes self-reliant and independent, then
she must and will be free.
	The moment an individual, or a class, is
strong enough to stand alone, bondage is
impossible.
* * * * *
	Some of our opponents attack us with
the same old weapons in use thirty years
ago; though ever and anon, as new phases
of the question have arisen, new weapons
have come into use. When a number of
women in this city, with Susan B. Anthony
at their head, went to the polls and voted,
Henry R. Selden, in his constitutional ar-
guments in their defence before the United
States, forged a good supply of Minnie guns
and Columbiads, which have done us good
service.
* * * * * *
	Much has been accomplished for the civil
rights of woman. The laws and customs
touching her property, education and labor
have been essentially modified and im-
proved, but her political rights are still ig-
nored.
* * * * * *
	I would remind the gentlemen present
that the enfranchisement of woman in-
volves your interests as deeply as our own.
We are so indissolubly bound together that
whatever degrades woman lowers the status
of man also. Our growth is your develop-
ment, our hope your inspiration, our long-
ings your triumph; our success your vic-
tory."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIVATE-CORRESPONDENCE.

LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS.
	July 12, 1878.
To—
	Dear Sister:—Your kind and very wel-
come letter of the 20th of May reached
me about June 12th. It gave me much

[Column 2]
pleasure to receive a letter from one of my
sisters who has labored so long for the same
cause that I am now laboring; one who
knows the joys and sorrows of those who
are called to leave home and friends and
take up their abode on the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	I do not feel as though I could tell you
anything about my feelings—the anxieties
for the folks at home and the lonely hours
that I have spent thinking about them—
for it would be old to you; you have gone
through it yourself and know all about it.
But you can sympathize with me, can't 
you?
	Although I am very lonesome at times,
and feel as though it would be a great plea-
sure to be able to step in and see mother
and the rest of the dear ones once in a
while, still I am a great deal more con-
tented here than I expected I would be
when I left them.
	Last Friday I received the sad news of
the death of my dear little niece, Lucy. It
made me feel more homesick than I have
felt since I have been here; she was such a
fine, healthy child when we left home, I
did not think of her going to her mother
so soon. I had just been talking to Sister
Molen about her that day, and saying what
a comfort she would be to her father when
she got larger. The Lord giveth and the 
Lord taketh away, and we must learn to be
reconciled to whatever we have to pass
through.
	We were called to part with one of our
native friends last Friday, Kaohenauna, one
of the men who was called to go to Utah at
the last Conference. He was at work on
Thursday, went home and ate a couple of
"Sand-spiders," I expect you will know
what they are, and was taken with cramp
and vomiting. He died at 7 o'clock, only
being sick one day and night. His funeral
was held at the schoolhouse, at 2 o'clock on
Sunday, and his body was followed to the
grave by over two hundred people. I ex-
pect you were well acquainted with him,
for he has been in the Church a great many
years. He was the father of the youngest
of the two native women who live in the 
19th Ward. He had saved about one hun-
dred dollars towards taking himself, wife
and child to Utah, and expected to go with
the first missionaries that were called home.
He was very anxious to get there and have
his wife sealed to him before he died, for
he has not been well for a long time; he
has been troubled with a very bad cough.
His wife and child are intending to go and
have the work done for him The boy is
about fourteen years old; he has been liv-
ing with us ever since we went to keeping
house on the Island.
	It was not at all hard for me to accustom
myself to the food and manner of living
here, though I would much prefer the way
we have at home. All the white associates
I have are the missionaries from home. I
have made the acquaintance of one lady
since we came here, but she is only half
white. She is a very nice woman, and 
very aristocratic in her manners and habits.
Mr. Hassenger, her husband, who is a
white man, has been keeping the ranche of
a Mr. Campbell, at Habuku, about seven
miles north of here, but I understand they
are about to leave the place and go back to
Honolulu, where they resided before they
came to Habuku. They sent a native over
to say they would call here and spend Wed-
nesday night. They have three very nice
daughters, the eldest about sixteen years.
	We have not had any one call here since
I came, excepting the Queen and party,
consisting of the Queen, her sister, and

[Column 3]
Miss Mary Pitman, a half white, and Mr.
Charles Judd, besides six servants. They
took one meal at the plantation house, and
spent the rest of the time at Lucy's, the
girl who used to live with you. The Queen
invited us down there to take supper with
her; we all went, and spent a very pleasant
evening. I had quite a talk with Miss
Pitman; she said she was in Salt Lake
City last winter, and that she took dinner
with you, and had a very pleasant time.
They stopped at this place two days, and
seemed very much pleased with the way
the people are getting along.
	My husband has been gone to the Island
of Kanai between two and three weeks,
and I am here alone, with the exception of
my baby, who is a great comfort to me in
my lonely hours. Remember me kindly to
the family and inquiring friends. Bro.
Molen got a letter from Bro. —— last
Monday. If you see any of my folks, give
my love to them and tell them that we are
all well. I have finished my sheet, so I
will now close. Hoping this will find your-
self and family all enjoying good health, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
	SARAH DEAN.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Reports of the General Retrenchment
Meeting, Saturday, Aug. 17; Counselor
Zina D. Young presiding. The President,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, was absent, traveling
with Miss Eliza R. Snow through the set-
tlements of Morgan Co., and holding meet-
ings with the various organizations of sis-
ters.  The meeting was addressed by
Counselors Zina D. Young, B. W. Smith,
P. Woodruff and E. Howard, also by Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. Pixton, and Dr. Wm.
Smith.  One interesting feature of the 
meeting was the reading of the minutes of 
the Juvenile Association, by Miss Alice
Merrill.  This Association is composed of
little girls, all under eleven years of age.
The minutes were full of the simplicity
and sweetness which characterizes child-
hood and reminded one forcibly of the Sa-
vior's words "Except ye become as little
children, ye cannot enter into the kingdom
of heaven."  The sisters who spoke dwelt
much upon the necessity of improvement,
the training of children, the benefit of fire-
side teaching, the storing of grain, and
home industries.  Mrs. Young spoke of
her recent visit with Sister E. R. Snow to
Provo Valley, the peaceful influence among
the sisters wherever they went; of being
in Logan at the Conference, when they de-
posited in a stone box the Church records,
in a corner pillar designed for the purpose,
and the sister's conference at Ogden.  Mrs.
Howard gave a brief account of her visit
to Randolph; said the Relief Society there
had a good house of their own to meet in,
wth plain, substantial furniture.  They
raised no grain there, but were going to
sell some stock owned by the Society to
buy wheat to store up.  Mrs. Woodruff, in
her remarks, said the low price of wheat
now, reminded her very forcibly of the fam-
ine in Egypt—they had seven years of 
plenty previous to the seven years of fam-
ine.  Spoke of one poor place in the coun-
try where the sisters saved Sunday eggs
for the Temple, and in there months it
amounted to forty-one dollars.
	Many good ideas are suggested in these
meetings for the benefit of all, and much
practical as well as spiritual instruction is
imparted.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CIRCULAR OF SPENCERIAN BUSI
	NESS COLLEGE.

	Mrs. Sara A. Spencer, who has endeared her-
self to the Mormon people by her defense of
the rights of Mormon women in the National
Capitol, is Vice-Principal of the Spencerian
Business College,Washington, D, C. Prof. H.
C. Spencer is Principal.  This Institution be-
gins its Scholastic Year the first Monday in
September.  The College Course is arranged to
be pursued in two departments—The Practical
English Depa[-]tment and The Advanced Busi-
ness Department. "There are also Incidental
Lectures upon Health, Temperance, Virtue,
Economy, Thrift, Enterprise, General Deport-
ment."  In addition to the regular day train-
ing and instruction there are also evening ses-
sions.  "The design of the Institution is to
prepare those who attend to [-]arn for themselves
a home and a livelihood."  The circular con-
tains a picture of the interior of the Main
College Hall and the College Bank; also a like-
ness of the Professor and his distinguished
wife.  The Twelfth Graduating Class celebrat-
ed their annual public exercises at Lincoln
Hall the present year, with salutations, essays,
and valedictories; and diplomas and certificates
were conferred.
	Mrs. Spencer, previous to awarding the la-
dies their diplomas and certificates, made a
brief address, from which we quote the follow-
ing paragraph:
	"Let a woman, weak, friendless, poor, de-
spondent, only put her foot down metaphori-
cally and actually, and take a position of health,
strength, self-reliance and self-respect, and see
how the ever-abundant life of the universe
flows in.  She is inspired with confidence in
herself, and the world with confidence in her,
and the chances are ten to one she will either
accomplish what she undertakes, or prepare
herself for something better.  * * *
Women who have money and leisure are the
last to prepare for the inevitable day of want
and suffering."
	The design of this college is to furnish prac-
tical preparation for the business transactions
growing out of the great variety of individual
enterprises.


EMIL HOEDEL, the young man who tried
to assassinate Emperor William, was be-
headed at Berlin recently.  He was but
twenty-one years of age.  He asked for
wine and drank to the Commune and the
Social Democracy.
	We have been requested by Mrs. Mary
E. Holt of Hoytsville to correct two errors
which occurred in the Hoytsville Report,
published in our issue of July 15.  The
word treasury was changed to tannery,
and Mrs. Holt's name was published Hoyt.
	THIRTEEN LADIES received the decora-
tion of the Red Cross, recently established
by the Emperor of Russia in honor of ser-
vices given to the sick and wounded in the
Russian army.—Ex.


[Column 1]
DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S
	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

[Column 2]
SUSANNA DECK,
Graduated Midwife and Nurse,
FROM THE COLLEGE OF ZURICH IN SWITZERLAND

RESIDENCE—Twelfth Ward, three doors east of H. B.
Clawson's, on South Temple Street.

SARA'S SALVE!
	PURE and harmless, inwardly or outwardly applled.
will prove a great blessing to the afflicted. Spread
it as thin as possible on linen when applied outwardly.
Cover the forehead and tack of the neck over night with
the plaster for neuralgia, around the ears for earache or
roaring sounds, the cheek for toothache. Cover the nip-
ples when sore, or th[-] breast when painful, the back and
chest when aching, the stomach when cramped.  When
suffering from inward complaints, roll some of it into
pills and take from one to five, according to the degree of
pain or condition of the patient.  As clyster, nothing will
equal it.  For burns and frozen hands and feet, it is bet-
ter than any other remedy.  It is excellent for chapped
hands.  It will cure felons in two or three days.  It takes
off dead flesh in a few hours.  It will cure old sores that
have baffled the most skillful doct[-]rs for scores of years.
Lame limbs of years standing it will cure in a week or
two. All kinds of aches or pains or open sores on man or
beast it will cure.  Those that have tried it will not be
without it.
	JULIA S. WINHOLM.
For sale at the Comm[-]ssion House, Salt Lake City.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
	Saleroom to
	NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Milinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
	Second South Streets.
	Special attenti[-]n given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
	Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women. 

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuf and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. .Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descr[-]ptions.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 3]
ROWE'S 
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetr[-]cs, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

