
[handwritten] Mary Garber

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1878.		No. 1.﻿


[For the EXPONENT.
		SONG OF THE WEARY.
		BY HANNAH T. KING.

Oh! night! calm night, iet thy silence abound,
	When past are the toils of day,
Come, night, draw thy curtains around,
	That the weary may rest away.

The night! O how sweet is its calm,
	Its silence, its dreams, and its sleep;
Sweet nature's restorative balm
	To those—who've no vigils to keep! 

The night!—What a peaceful recess,
	When the spirit is having an "out,"
And sweet ministers hover to bless,
	And angels are flitting about.

The weary and worn are at rest,
	With the curtain of night drawn around,
And none to intrude or molest,
	They are hidden from sight or from sound.

The morning is sweet, very sweet—
	But it often brings sorrow and care;
But night does the worn spirit greet,
	And lulls it from even despair.

Away into dreamland we go,
	The absent are with us again;
Even death is bereft of its woe,
	For it seems they have come to remain.

All barriers are taken away—
	We are free as the bird on the hill,
There's no night, all is beautiful day,
	And the spirit succumbs to the will.

Then come with thy wondrous dreamland,
	Yes, Morpheus, come quickly to me;
Touch mine eyes with thy mystical hand.
	And thine own till the morning I'll be.

Oh! sleep, balmy sleep, thou art twin
	With thy brother, whom mortals call death;
But we feel thou art compact with him,
	To merely suspension of breath;

And that all will respire again,
	In a world renovated and fair,
This knowledge soothes every pain,
	And swallows up grief and despair.

We'll look upon death as a sleep,
	And recline in his arms as a babe;
Our angel sweet vigils will keep,
	Till triumphant we rise from the grave.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
		DESULTORY THOUGHTS.

			BY HANNAH T. KING..

	How often amid the trials of daily life,
the body becomes weary and worn, and the
spirit in its strong sympathy, partakes of
the same, loses its buoyancy and ceases for
a time to be a helpmeet unto it; circumstan-
ces often engender that entire prostration;
we are poor, that is in the current coin of
the realm, and we are crippled even in our
best efforts and affections; our spirit com-
plains, we think God has forgotten us, the
mind grows gloomy and despondent, our
path seems hedged up—we cannot make an
opening. We know bread eaten by labor is
sweet, and only that bread do we desire;
but where is the field? where the vineyard?
every place is full; is the earth becoming
over populated? or does machinery swallow
up the labor of the Saints? The earth is
full of riches and many are reveling in
them. David, even in his days was puz-
zled, and could not solve the problem, and
Scripture expressly says "the race is not
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,

[Column 2]
nor riches to men of wisdom." Must
we then fall back on destiny? yes, sure-
ly there is much in pre-destination, we
cannot shut our eyes to the fact, though it
has a bound beyond which we will not own
it can, may, or shall pass. Wealth, mighty
lever as it is, cannot give happiness, or
health, or heart or brain; it is merely an
auxiliary, and a powerful one too, and great
is the responsibility of the possessor. We
may be rich in all things but "money,"
which Scripture calls "filthy lucre," to that,
I say nothing, lest we clash in our opinion;
it is the current that bears the world along,
and only when linked with vice, can it be
really called so. But let us look at our cir-
cumstances, boldly, daringly, for it requires
an indomitable courage at times to look
them in the face unflinchingly, unmurmur-
ingly, and see it there are not some frag-
ments left, out of which we can organize
a shadow of the heaven it is the right of
all to possess. If the sun of our domestic
system is under so heavy a cloud, that we
cannot see clear enough, we will light a
lamp, and if we have no lamp, then a can-
dle, and if we have not a candle then a
"farthing rush-light," surely we can find
that, and by its little light we will peer in-
to the darkness of the present hour. Now
we will not recall what we do not now pos-
sess, but review the blessings wo actually
do possess "pro tem;" all are welcome to
our rushlight and can make their own ex-
amination, at the same time with us. Has
nature given us a sound mind in a sound
body? If so what untold wealth is ours in
this one possession; no money can buy it,
no position bequeath it; God and our pro-
genitors have bestowed it upon us. Tell
me not that a pale white face is pretty and
lady-like; away with such vitiated nonsense.
A face I know well rises up before my mind,
where the rose and the lily unite, but the
rose holds her place with queenly su-
premacy. I never look upon that face but
its bloom seems to invigorate me, and I
gather as much of it as I can with my eyes,
and my gaze is not rudeness, but love. Yes,
health is beauty in man or woman, "good my
Lord;" and this health enables us in a thou-
sand ways to make our heaven; enables us
to work—work till we clear away the bram-
bles and thorns and noxious weeds that ob-
struct our path; though by the bye this
very health is imperative in its demands
and is loud in her calls for the Lever move-
ment. But of itself it enables us to plant
and sow, and reap every day, yes every
night, gather in a harvest of some good
things worth preserving in our grand store-
house of heart and brain; enables us to
make order prominent wherever we move;
to prepare bread and all food so well, that
even the sickly may be tempted to eat, and
the appetite is encouraged. Cooking food
deliciously should be placed with the fine
arts, for it is a talent that is not thrown
broadcast over the earth; it has to be ac-
quired by long and close study, and then it
never becomes a science without a natural
tact and talent in that branch.  Woman's
life is an unwritten philosophy, and this
art is certainly among the unwritten.
	Health enables us to walk,—yes, away
with the carriages except for invalids, or

[Column 3]
people over eighty; riding continually in
carriages is destructive to health and vigor,
both mentally and physically; let us do our
own errands, and then we shall have an ob-
ject, for an object is the inspiration which
we need. The blessing of friends must
never be forgotten; they help to make our
sunshine, and our happy hours, we love
them and desire their association in the
grand eternities where we shall get better
acquainted than in this ephemeral exist-
ence, for how little we know of the inner
life of each other in our present associa-
tions, even the nearest. We have little
time to elaborate; life is a rush, railroad
pace, "coupled [-]ngines." Nature, beauti-
ful nature! is an open book that blesses us
every day, and is ever around us; I may
have no garden, but my neighbor's is love-
ly with beautiful flowers and shrubs, and
fruit; it is as much mine as his, as far as
the eye can make it so; I can gaze upon it
in perfect freedom and inhale its perfume
which is the voice of the flowers to us; do
not they awaken a language no words can
tell, that we are now acquainted with?
Yes, we can even talk to them and they
respond by their sweet perfume, thrilling
us with gratitude and devotion, for they
breathe of heaven and heavenly beings.
All this is prepared for us and we can in-
hale and enjoy and "none to molest and
make afraid." Then comes Night, light-
ing up our world with all its glory, the
lovely moon, and the breathing, palpitating
stars; well might the sublime poet say, "By
night an athist half believes a God." Then
the glorious Sun, the Lord of Creation,
when he rises in his splendor, and embrac-
es the earth with his life-giving beams; she
responds to the warmth of his love, and
puts on her beautiful robe as though
fresh from the hands of her Maker. Yes
the sun!

	Had I been born in heathen lands,
	Unknowing God and His commands,
	I surely should have bent the knee
	In dark idolatry to thee.

	Nature! beautiful nature, child of
God, we love thee, thou art the
"sandalphon" of our earthly orbit, filling
our souls with happiness that no language
can make palpable. Thanks to the little
"rushlight" it has ignited the "candle of
the Lord" which burns in every bosom—
though sometimes but dimly. The dark
cloud is lifted and the summits of hope
again appear; "there is a silver lining to
every cloud;" and we ought to be alchymist
sufficient to know how to extract the sweet
as well as the bitter, that the medicine of
life may also be its elixir.
	S. L. City, May 18, 1878.


IT is reported that ex-Queen Isabella is
about to make London her residence.
	THE ADVENT of Women in political af-
fairs dates far back of our time. In the
reign of Henry III, four women had seats
in the British Parliament. In the seventh
century, when the national assembly con-
voked by the King of Kent enacted a new
code of laws, the decrees were signed by
the Queen, abbesses, and ladies of quality.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS

				EPHRAIM, MAY 8, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	That you should not think that we, the
Young Ladies M. I. A. of Ephraim are
not awake to our calling, having never
heard from us through your valuable paper,
I shall therefore endeavor to give you a
brief account of our proceedings, during the
time since we were reorganized, which is a
little over a year since. About the time
the work on the Manti Temple was com-
menced, we instituted a monthly ten-cent
donation towards that Temple, being anx-
ious to aid in so great a work, which is a
privilege that we enjoy as a people, for
which we should ever be thankful, and do
all we can to forward its progress in order
that we may be worthy of the blessings
that will be given therein. By putting our
ten cents together, it has brought us, up to
the present, $28.80. We have also donated
ten dollars for the relief of our destitute
brethren and sisters in Wales, who are suf-
fering for the want of daily bread, trying to
appreciate how abundantly we are blessed
with the necessaries and comforts of life.
	The last time our dear departed Presi-
dent visited us in Sanpete, he counseled
us to make our own hats, and do all we
could towards being self-sustaining; this
we do as far as we can. Nearly all the
members of our association make their own
hats; we also make gentleman's straw hats
and try to supply the Co-op at this place
with them. A couple of our girls are fur-
nishing us with beautiful artificial flowers,
so when we raise our own silk, we shall be
able to produce as neat a hat as any of us
could wish to wear, which will indeed be
the workmanship of our own hands.
	We hold our meetings weekly which are
always well attended, and many good in-
structions are given from time to time; in
fact, we think that our meetings are better
than any others; for every word that falls
from the lips of a young girl, while speak-
ing of the goodness of God, seems to come
from the bottom of the heart, and, as it
were, takes root in the hearts of the hear-
ers.
	We should try to appreciate these im-
provement associations for they are schools
in which we are preparing ourselves to fol
low in the footsteps of our mothers, when
they shall have passed behind the vail, for
we know that they cannot always be with
us, to bear the burden of the day, and this
kingdom will still roll on; consequently,
when fathers and mothers have passed
away, their work must necessarily fall upon
the shoulders of their children.
	The EXPONENT is always welcome to our
meetings. Wishing you continued success,
		I am yours, etc.,
				KATE MADSEN, Secretary.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE Co., May 10, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I would not let the present opportunity
pass unnoticed: The sisters here have of-
ten wished Sister Eliza R. Snow to visit
them, and yesterday they had their desires
gratified. Sisters Snow and Davis held a
meeting with us at 10 o'clock a. m., yester-
day, and truly it was a feast; Sister Snow
said she was afraid she would keep us late
without our dinners, but we were being fed
with the words of eternal life. Nearly all
the brethren and sisters in the settlement
were present, and I trust we will profit by
the instruction given; we should feel thank-

[Column 2]
ful that we live in a glorious day when God
has spoken from the heavens, and that we
have good men and women to instruct us
in the path which leads to life and eternal
salvation. We feel to say God bless Sister
Snow and all the sisters and brethren who
are laboring continually for the welfare of
Zion. May she live many years yet to
counsel and instruct the mothers and daugh-
ters of Zion. The subjects spoken upon by
Sisters Snow and Davis, were home indus-
tries, the home education of our children,
saving of grain, dress and Celestial Mar-
riage. We have but very little of the fash-
ion of modern civilization among us here.
Our worthy Bishop and Bishop Rigby from
Newton, each made a few remarks and
promised to assist the sisters all they could,
to establish home industries; we have but
very little of the outside influences among
us here, and nothing to hinder us from liv-
ing our religion, and being a happy people.
We have a good prospect of a bountiful
harvest, the health of the people is good;
we have a healthy climate and everything
encouraging to the Latter-day Saints.
	We feel to sympathize with you in your
late bereavement, but we have a hope be-
yond the grave, we know in whom we
trust.
			MARY GRIFFIN, Pres't.
			JANE GODFREY, Sec'y.

	SANPEDRO RIVER, PIMA Co., ARIZONA.
							May 3rd, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters of this place were organized
into a Relief Society by our President, P.
C. Merrell, April 18, 1878. Mrs. Cyren[-] Mer-
rell was appointed President, Rhoda Mer-
rell and Cyrena Stut Counselors, Maria Mc-
Rae, Secretary, Millesa Merrell, Treasurer;
we also have Teachers; we have not many
members, numbering but twelve in all, but
we are going to try and do something in
our weak way. We meet twice a month
and have excellent meetings; we are living
in, or working in the United Order; we do
not eat at one table, but have six rooms fin-
ished so that we are very comfortable.
There is an excellent spirit manifested in
our camp, all feel well and are trying to live
near to God and keep His commandments.
We are so far away from head quarters that
we need to live our religion or the adver-
sary would take advantage of us for he is
watching for weak places.
	Dear Sister we all feel to sympathize with
you in your great loss, but know that it is
her gain.
	We receive the EXPONENT regularly and
it is read with interest by both brethren
and sisters; it has really been a great com-
fort and blessing to all.
	This is a beautiful country, our grain
looks well, and we are getting along as well
as could be expected. There is plenty of 
hard work for all. We thought we should
like to have our names associated with the
rest of our sisters in the good cause in
which the women of God are enlisted.
		CYRENA MERRELL, Pres't. R. S.
		MARIA McRAE, Secretary.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., May 9th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We held our Quarterly meeting on the 
18th ult.; there was a large attendance and
a very good spirit prevailed; the presiden-
cy gave some excellent teachings in rela-
tion to home industry, economy, union, etc.
Several of the sisters expressed their feel-
ings, and are anxious to do all the good they

[Column 3]
can in the good work in which they are en-
gaged, and also willing to help and sustain
those who preside over them. There is a
good feeling manifested in our Society as a 
general thing; we enjoy ourselves when-
ever we meet together either in testimony,
teacher, or work meetings; also in our so-
cial gatherings. We held a party in the
Social Hall last March in honor of the Su-
perintendent, Assistants and Teachers of the
Sunday School, to show our appreciation of
their labors amongst our children. At four
o'clock, p. m., upwards of two hundred
persons sat down to well filled tables, and
did ample justice to the choice viands
placed before them; the evening was spent
in dancing, singing and listening to short
speeches from the brethren and sisters; we
truly had a glorious time, one long to be re-
membered. Our grain committee of three
sisters, appointed about a year ago, fill their
position well, they are doing a good work
in storing grain, having on hand at pres-
ent, one hundred and seventy-five bushels;
we also have an interest in the sheep herd
of thirty-five dollars which we intend turn-
ing into wheat. Our Quarterly Report is
as follows:
	Donations in merchandise......... $6 62 ½
	Sundries........................................ 12 90
	Sist[-]rs Labor...............................   9  50
								  ————
		Total,					   29 02 ½
	Disbursed......................................    3 46
								  ————
	Balance,					   25 56 ½
								  ————
	Amount now in Treasury............ 125  56 ½
	The sisters join with me in kind regards,
and heartfelt sympathy for your great be-
reavement.
				M. A. LUNT, Cor. sec'y.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, May 25th, was well attended,
and a spirit of unity and good feeling was
plainly indicated by the remarks of the
sisters. Counselor E. R. Snow presided,
and after the usual exercises she addressed
the meeting, giving an interesting account
of her visit to some of the settlements
north, and the cordial and hospitable re-
ception everywhere given to herself and
Mrs. Davis, who accompanied her. Miss
Snow also spoke earnestly upon the storing
of grain, and suggested to the sisters the
propriety of raising beans for the same pur-
pose; advised the sisters to use their ut-
most influence with the brethren to have
beans planted wherever it could be made
practicable. Counselor Zina D. Young
made a few remarks on the subject of rais-
ing beans, and offered to lend out some for
seed, of a very good kind. Mrs. Phebe
W. Snow, of Brigham City, spoke upon the
principles of the Gospel, her testimony of
its truth and her desire to serve God. The
sisters in the congregation were called up-
on to express themselves, and many of
them responded, speaking upon faith, hu-
mility, obedience, Celestial Marriage, and
adding testimony to testimony of the truth
of the Latter-day work. Mrs. Mary Freeze
gave a short sketch of her recent visit to
the Eastern States, and referred to the
strong testimony she had borne, wherever
opportunity offered, on the subject of plural
marriage. The sisters are growing and in-
creasing rapidly in spiritual strength and
power, and will soon be a mighty phalanx
in the midst of Israel. Their power and
influence for good through the channel of
these organizations is a positive fact which
is fast gaining recognition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
MY NATIVE MOUNTAINS.

BY BEFF.

		Ah, my noble, native mountains,
		Still the music of thy fountains
[-]urmurs sweetly in my ears though, I am far from thee.
		And thy torrents dashing, gleaming,
		As they down thy sides are streaming,
		In the sunshine brightly beaming,
Seem a song of invitation to be singing unto me.

		It may be a supersition,
		But before my mental vision,
Scenes of home, my mountain home, so oft appear to rise,
		Scenes that to my heart are dearest,
		And in imagination nearest
		To the Vale, where shines the clearest
Sight that beams on happy spirits, praising God in Para-
	dise.

		Yes, to me it seems like heaven,
		Does my mountain home at even,
When the sun in his effulgence sinks behind the Western
	hills.
		Or when Luna sheds her silver,
		Over valley, lake and river,
		And the leaflets gently quiver,
In the breeze so softly laden with the song of distant rills

		Noble mountains! 'neath thy shadows,
		Falling over farms and meadows,
Live a people, of all people, blessed, rich, and most con-
	tent.
		While woes follow those who drove them,
		God and good men all will love them,
		O the sun that shines above them,
Sees no people whom the Father greater blessings ever
	sent.

		Yes, I hasten to thee gladly,
		For my heart yearns for thee sadly,
And I long to flee from Bab'lon and return to thee, sweet
	home. 
		Grand old mountains! piles stupendous!
		Thou seem'st to stand there to defend us
		From the judgments so tremendous,
And the desolating scourges, that upon the earth must
	come.

		And when war spreads consternation
		Through this land, and desolation
Stalks abroad, with form so gaunt, throughout the na-
	tions of the earth,
		Then thy peace shall princes envy,
		And thy valleys teem with plenty,
		For thy people, who will then be
In enjoyment of that peace, of which the world knows
	not the worth.

Council Bluffs, May 18, 1878.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
THE SISTERS' VISIT NORTH.

	Friday. May 3d, Miss E. R. Snow and I
left Ogden on the U. N. R. R. to visit the
settlements in Malad Valley; we had a
pleasant trip to Hampton's in company
with Apostles Wilford Woodruff and
Erastus Snow, and wife. Bishop O. C.
Haskins and Brother Mansfield met us with
a comfortable conveyance to take us to
Portage, where we arrived in safety early
in the evening.
	Saturday, May 4th, we attended three
meetings, the brethren as well as the sis-
ters being present; a good spirit prevailed,
and we were blessed and encouraged by
the kind words of the Bishop and his
Counselors. Bishop G. Dunford met us
here, and with Bishop Hoskins accompa-
nied us to Samaria, Sunday, 5th, where we
again attended three meetings, and Sister
Snow assisted Bishop Dunford in re-organ-
izing the Relief Society.
	Monday, 6th, we reached Malad in com-
pany with Brothers Dunford, Hoskins and
Mansfield, attended three meetings of breth-
ren and sisters, and all were delighted at
Sister Snow's presence, and the kind coun-
sel and encouragement she gave will be
long remembered by them. Several came
twenty-two miles to attend meeting, and
all expressed their gratitude to God, our

[Column 2]

Father, for the blessings they enjoyed. Ma-
lad is a beautiful valley, thousands of
acres of good land waiting for our poor
brethren who are in want of homes to come
and enjoy.
	Tuesday, 7th, Sister Snow held a recep-
tion for two hours, and also visited the
sick, then returned to Samaria; met with
the Y. L. M. I. A. at two o'clock; then pro-
ceeded to Portage, where we were kindly
entertained by Bishop Hoskins and family.
Held meeting in the evening, and were
greatly blessed.
	Wednesday, 8th, we left our kind friends
in Portage, crossed the divide, and visited
Newton; Bishop Littlewood and his family
were very pleased at our unexpected visit.
We met with the sisters afternoon and eve-
ning; many of the brethren here also hon-
ored us with their presence.
	Thursday, 9th, visited Clarkston, met
with the sisters; Bishop Jardine and his
counselors attended with many other breth-
ren. We had an excellent meeting. Af-
ter dinner left for Weston, where we met
with the sisters afternoon and evening.
Many of the brethren were present and ex-
pressed their regret at their Bishop's ab-
sence.
	Friday, 10th, accompanied by Sister
Clark, at whose house we were entertained
in Weston, and Bro. Gassman, we reached
Franklin, and met with the sisters at three
o'clock; Bishop Lafayette Hatch and his
counselors attended with us, and all ex-
pressed their gratitude for the blessings
they received. In the evening we met
with the M. I. A. of both sexes, young
men and women, and had a good time.
Sister Snow addressed the young and ad-
vised them to improve every opportunity
in doing good, and to cultivate themselves
that they might become truly great.
	Saturday, 11th, we reached Richmond,
and met with the sisters in the afternoon,
and held joint meeting of the young ladies
and gentlemen in the evening.
	Sunday, 12th, we met with the sisters in
Smithfield in the morning, dined with
about forty brethren and sisters, Bishop S.
Roskelly and his counsel being of the num-
ber. Afternoon, accompanied by Bishop
Roskelly and others, we visited Hyde Park,
and had a good time with the Saints; all
attended meeting, and were thankful to
have Sister Snow visit them. I think her
instructions will long be remembered by
the Saints in every settlement; all seemed
to enjoy their privileges as Saints, and
were thankful for every blessing. As we
traveled we thanked God, our Father, for
all His mercies; we felt that He was in-
deed blessing His people. The fields looked
beautiful in their robe of green, and the
trees were covered with blossoms; every
where there were prospects of a bounteous
harvest.
	After visiting Brother and Sister McCal-
lister, we left Logan Monday, 13th, and
reached Brigham City by train. That
evening we visited the sick; next
morning we attended the meeting of the
sisters for their organization in a Stake ca-
pacity. Then we visited several Co-oper-
ative Institutions, and were delighted with
the energy and enterprise of the brethren
and sisters of Brigham City; saw the new
Woolen and Silk Factory now nearly com-
pleted, and which will soon be in operation.
Here the artisan and mechanic will not
have to cry for work in vain, neither will
their families have to cry for bread. I felt
that it was truly the hive of Deseret, and
its people are the working bees; the bless-

[Column 3]

ings of God will surely be with such a peo-
ple.
	Tuesday evening, 14th, we reached Og-
den, and were soon snugly ensconced for
the evening in Sister J. Richards's hospita-
ble mansion; we were cheered and blessed
with her and her family.
	Wednesday, 15th, in company with Sis-
ters Richards, Brown, Belknap, Odell and
others, we visited Ogden Vailey, and we
greatly enjoyed our trip through the canon,
viewing the grand scenery, awful in its
grandeur. We had an excellent meeting
with the people, for there were many pres-
ent.
	Thursday, 16th, with the above named
sisters, also Sisters West, Herrick and Fred-
sham, we visited Marriotsville, and en-
joyed our meeting with the brethren and
sisters of that settlement. We returned
to Salt Lake City the same evening, and
were thankful to our Heavenly Father for
all His blessings, and for our safety, and
we feel to thank our brethren and sisters in
every settlement for their kind care over
us, and for kindly conveying us from place
to place. We shall not forget our visit nor
those we visited.	E. DAVIS.


THERE is a pretty sharp discussion going
on respecting the admission of ladies to the
meetings of the British Medical Associa-
tion. Dr. Wilson Fox has resigned his
membership because the committee of the
council of the association have informed
him that they have no power to prevent
the attendance of ladies who are members
of the association. Professor Lister, the
eminent surgeon who came from Edin-
burgh to take the late Sir William Fergus-
son's place at King's College Hospital,
writes to the "British Medical Journal"
that he shall follow Dr. Fox's example un-
less this matter is set right. It appears
that early in 1873 Mrs. Garrett Anderson,
M. D., of Paris, and Mrs. Hoggan, M. D., of
Zurich, were elected members of the asso-
ciation by the committee of the council.
Attention was called to this fact at the Ed-
inburgh meeting of the association, and it
was determined that papers should be sent
to all the members of the association asking
them to say yes or no as to whether they
wished ladies to be present. 4,161 answers
were received, of which 3,072 were noes.
Since then no ladies have been elected.
But it is easier to elect than to unelect, and
the question is what is now to be done?
The doctors, who are perfectly ready to at-
tend ladies as patients, however delicate
may be the nature of their complaints, are
such prudes that they say that they cannot
possibly discuss these complaints in the
presence of two ladies brought up to the
medical profession. They are willing to
act as accoucheurs and take lumping fees,
but it would make them blush to discuss
obstetrics before lady obstetricians, and,
therefore, Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Hoggan
are to have their subscriptions returned if 
the Association would not lose Dr. Fox and
Professor Lister. When I read such stuff
as this I say, with old Mr. Henley, that I
am ready to lie on my back and shout
"Fudge!" It is even worse than that, it is
pure, unadulterated, professional selfish-
ness.—Selected.


ANOTHER new novel from the pen of
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has just been
published, "Poganuc People." It is pro-
nounced by critics and reviewers to be one
of her brightest and best stories of New
England life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one 
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. JUNE 1, 1878.


THE NEW VOLUME.

	The present number ushers in the seventh
volume of our little paper, and we trust that in
many homes where it is familiarly known, it
grows still dearer as time goes by. The wo-
men of Utah have an opportunity to give ex-
pression through its columns to their thoughts,
feelings and opinions, and thus become better
acquainted with each other, and more truth-
fully represented to their contemporaries.
We regret to state that on account of delin-
quencies in payments we are unable to make
any change in the paper at the present time,
but our best efforts, and most earnest endeav-
ors shall be diligently exercised to make the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT more helpful and pleas-
ing to the sisters and the public at large than
ever. Women's papers are one of the features
of the progressive elements of the nineteenth
century, and are in a certain sense, character-
istic of the respective locality, and its predom-
inating influences. The EXPONENT should carry
with it the influence of woman's move-
ments, actuated by the spirit of a relig-
ion embodying all the grandest and holiest
principles that have ever been revealed from
heaven. As such a messenger it should be
purifying, elevating and refining in its tend-
ency, and exert in the homes of the people such
a positive influence for good, as should make it
a desirable acquisition to the home circle.


BITTER EXPERIENCES.

	How wonderful are the effects of the various
experiences of one's life. They come to all
while passing through this "vale of tears." It
is easy to say to a friend, be brave, take cour-
age, and the like, when one is sailing smoothly
along with prosperous gales; and often even
the words carry such an earnestness with them
that they do have a stimulating influence for
the moment. The peculiar trials of individual
life and its incidents call out all the special
phases of character one possesses, it would seem,
thus developing energies and attributes, mak-
ing men and women more capable of sympa-
thy and action if they wisely discriminate,
and make good use of these prolific sources of
a higher education. This is the peculiar dis-
cipline Providence provides to teach one the
weakness of mortality, the frailty of all earthly
happiness, to lead one to the only true foun-
tain of joy that springs from the bosom of the
Father.
	Jesus passed through the trials of this earth-
ly life, and gained the perfect victory and He is
the pattern; but in the weakness of humauity
one some[-]imes cries out sorely when wounded
in a tender place; when sorrows press heavily
and bitter trials come, such as men and women


shrink from and would that the cup would
pass by were it possible, who can doubt that
heaven gives them strength to endure, cour-
age to go through the severe ordeal? Such
strain upon heart and brain could only be
borne through faith in God. Then is it strange
that sometimes weary and faint the spirit fal-
ters, the courage slackens, and the heart bows
down with grief. Only God knows the strug-
gle of the poor pilgrims, when the paths are
thorny and the ways are rough. Oh ye whose
paths are pleasant, whose hearts are light,
whose homes are full of bright sunshine, lend
a helping hand to the weary traveler, help to
lift the heavy burden laid upon the shoulders
of another, and minister in kindly deeds to
the soul bowed down. Remember while you
quaff the nectar of life's-honey, another is
draining the bitter wormwood; and give a
thought now and then to those who lack the
blessings of which you are in full possession.
	How little one can know of anything until
it is actually experienced. One can never
judge by looking at the experience of others; but
when one has had the real actual experience,
then is that one prepared to enter into the feel-
ings of those similarly situated. It is easy to
jog pleasantly along when all things are pro-
pitious, and friends loving, true and tender are
ready to make any sacrifice to make life desir-
able, but when affiiction lays its heavy hand
in chastening upon you, then is the time to
test the heroism of the soul, and its faith in God.
Then the tempter would fain make you be-
lieve God had forsaken you, heaven disregard-
ed your petitions, and if one can rely wholly
upon the goodness of God and trust implic-
itly in His redeeming love, faith is triumph-
ant. But how tenderly should one minister to
the sorrowing. How inexpressibly dear are
the kind words of friendship when the heart
is bruised and bleeding. None but those who
have drank of the wormwood and gall can
ever know its bitterness, or realize so exquis-
itely its opposite.


OUR OPINION.

	"The Ballot Box," formerly edited by Sarah
L. Williams, Toledo, Ohio, has changed its
title and locality. It is now "The National
Citizen and Ballot Box," edited and published
by Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage at Syracuse, New
York. The editor expresses a desire to have
the opinions of the press in regard to the mer-
its or demerits of the paper from their respec-
tive standpoints. We would prefer to wait un-
til we had seen several numbers, read and
mentally digested them, before sitting in judg-
ment on the matter. Mrs. Gage is well known
as a valiant defender of woman's cause, an
ab le and clever writer, and public speaker.
We are none of us perfect and therefore should
make due allowance for imperfections in oth-
ers. We wish Mrs. Gage the most complete
success in her new field of labor, and trust she
will give women a fair representation through
her columns. If her paper is national in its
character, as the name would indicate, then it
should advocate the cause of the women of the
nation irrespective of sect or creed, on the
broad platform of national liberty. If Mrs.
Gage is sufficiently magnanimous (and we be-
lieve she is) to speak courageously in defence
of women from all injustice, oppression and
wrong, then she should be sustained by the
best wishes, efforts and patronage of all
men and women who desire to see a better
state of society, through the renovating influ-
ence brought about through woman's material
help in public as well as private life. We once
received a letter from Mrs. Gage which gave


us the most favorable impression of the wo-
man; the letter was rich in womanly senti-
ment, liberal in tone, being entirely free from
that narrow-minded prejudice which often
manifests itself in the correspondence of ladies
who are unacquainted with our religion. We
must not measure others by ourselves, for their
teachings, their surroundings, their experien-
ces may be entirely different from ours; there-
fore let us be charitable towards those who de-
sire to do good even though their way is not
our way. There are many good things in the
National Citizen and the general tone of the 
paper is open, candid and demonstrative,
without sarcasm, or cant.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MR. JUNIUS C. Ferris, the son of Col. Fer-
ris an old friend of President D. H. Wells, is
in the city spending a few days; the young
gentleman is enroute for San Francisco. We
had the pleasure of a short call from him,
through the courtesy of our young relative Ju-
nius F. Wells, who was a guest at the resi-
dence of Col. Ferris in Carthage while in the
East in 1876. We trust Mr. Ferris will enjoy
his visit here, as he will doubtless have a good
opportunity of seeing the beauties of "our val-
ley home."
	MRS. M. I. HORNE returned last Sunday eve-
ning, May 26, from a visit to Bear Lake Valley,
in good health and spirits. She had been ab-
sent seven weeks. She met with several of the
Relief Societies in different places in that vi-
cinity during her absence, and assisted the
Bishop of Liberty in organizing a Relief So-
ciety there. The people are enjoying good
health generally, and there is a good degree of
enterprise and progression apparent in tempo-
ral affairs, much practical work having been
done recently. The brethren and sisters seem
growing in spiritual strength and grace, and
manifested great interest in the organizations
for spiritual development. Mrs. Horne was
everywhere cordially welcomed by the people,
and the sisters were anxious to have her coun-
sel and advice upon matters pertaining to the
growth and development of the associations,
as she is widely known as an earnest and inde-
fatigabie worker in woman's cause, from the
first organization of the Relief Society in Utah.
	WE HAD the pleasure of attending on Wed-
nesday, May 29th, the Annual Meeting of the
Relief Society of Payson, in company with
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D. Young and E.
Howard. Greatly to our surprise on enteriug
the meeting house we found it beautifully dec-
orated with articles of home-manufacture, the
handiwork of the sisters of the Relief Society.
Quilts in all varieties of patterns, carpets, rugs,
tidies, laces, flowers, and ladies' mitts, gloves,
vail, etc , of silk raised and manufactured
there; some of the productions are very nice
indeed. The house was well filled, everything
combined to make the meetings interesting
and profitable. Much credit is due the Presi-
dent and Counselors of the R. S., with their
Committee, in managing the affair with so
much taste and ability. In the evening there
was a joint meeting of the Y. M. M. I. A. and
Y. L. M. I. A. Both meetings were well at-
tended, Bishop Tanner and other local authori-
ties were present, and many other brethren,
and a good spirit and feeling prevailed. Miss
E. R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D. Young gave
much good advice, and related some of their
early experiences in the Church, and their as-
sociations with the prophet Joseph, which
were calculated to inspire faith and heroism in
the minds of the young sisters and women of


less experience. We shall publish full details
of these meetings in our next. Our visit to
Payson was pleasant. Thursday morning rode
over to Spring Lake Villa, which is a charm-
ing little retreat under the brow of the lofty
mountains.

	TO THE women of this Territory who are
interested in storing grain, and other products
against a day of need; we would suggest the 
subject of raising white beans for this express
purpose. They are easily raised and harvested,
and require less care in preserving than al-
most any other kind of product. Mice or
weevils are never found among beans, and 
they contain more strength and nutriment than
any other variety of vegetable food. They
will keep perfectly good in a dry place for a 
great number of years. One of the best things
people could have on hand in case of a famine
would be beans as they would keep longer than
any vegetable, or fruit. Relief Societies that
have land at their disposal where it is not con-
venient to raise wheat, could make good use of 
it by raising beans. Sisters use your influence
with the brethren who are engaged in agricul-
tural pursuits, to plant beans in large or small
quantities, according to circumstances, that
there may be an abundance to lay up in the 
store-houses for future emergencies. Though
a vast amount of grain may be stored yet veg-
etables are a necessity to health, and bean soup,
and bean porridge were considered healthful
diet by the primitive New Englanders. There
is no danger of having too great a quantity or
variety of food. Famines are already devast-
ating the earth in different parts and there is
no defining the boundaries of this terrible
scourge. On the coast of Labrador, where they
depend upon fisheries for support, there has
been a failure in the supply recently, and the
consequences are very serious. The British
government have ordered supplies to be for-
warded to meet psesent needs. The distress
in India and in China has been great and ac-
cording to the prophecies ancient and modern,
there is not likely to be any decrease; all this 
is suggestive to Latter-day Saints of the prac-
tical duty of making wise and diligent prepar-
ation for the time to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORMON BATTALION.

	DEAR SISTERS: Out of about [-]wenty of your
number who were engaged in that arduous
campaign of 1846-1847, I have fourteen or fif-
teen names. I have thought best in the nar-
rative I am writing to "let woman's voice be
heard," and to insert the names of those who
accompanied the command. I tnink it a sim-
ple act of justice on my part. If you will at
your earliest convenience, give me a b[-]ief nar-
rative of your trials and privations as well as
other interesting incidents of travel, I will give
you all the space that the nature of the work
will allow. This applies to all who went with
the army and those who remained behind and 
were bereft of husband or others on whom
they depended for support or comfort.
	The Church Historian has very kindly al-
lowed me to have copi[-]s from his office of all
that will be needed for general information.
Several of the brethren have also allowed me
the perusal of their journals, besides private
individuals have contributed items of public
interest, and I have my own knowledge of
facts worthy of note.
	I trust when I say that the work bids fair to 
be a valuable link in the great chain of the 
history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, I shall not be considered egotis-
tical. Such are my honest convictions. What


will add to the importance of the narrative is
the fact that nothing will be published ex-
cept what is fairly authenticated.
	Your brother and fellow laborer in Zion's
cause.
	Beaver, Beaver Co., May 20, '78.
		DANIEL TYLER.


PERSECUTION AND TESTIMONY.

	After reading the book entitled the "Wo-
men of Mormondom," many persons have
asked me if it was possible that the story of
Brother Joseph Young and Sister Amanda
Smith, concerning the Haun's Mill Massacre
could be true; it seems so bad that American
citizens would be guilty of so horrible a deed.
I will take the liberty of answering through
the columns of the EXPONENT, all who may
be surprised at such a terrible tragedy being
committed by a Christian community. It is
all too true, and they have only told a part. I
was only a little girl at the time, but many
things are plain to my memory; my own fath-
er, Levi M. Myrick and my brother Charles
were among the slain. My little brother lived
four weeks wanting two days after he was shot.
And after we got into a house, (for we were
traveling every day for two weeks) the mob
numbering from twenty five to forty would
surround the house and come in and hunt for
arms, tearing up the floor and searching in
every place they thought any could be secret-
ed, making any wicked threats that seemed to
enter their heads. They would wave their
great knives over Sister Smith and my mother
(Philindia Myrick) and tell them to leave the
State in four and twenty or forty-eight hours;
and some boasted to mother that two days af-
ter the bodies were put into the well they cut
father's legs off and when they cut them off
he called for liquor. Father never drank liq-
uor in his life, but they told mother this to
hurt her worse if they could. Father was a
tall man and it so happened that he was put in-
to the well head first leaving half of his legs in
sight. How long the well was left uncovered
I don't know, we left the next night after the
bodies were thrown in; the mob soon returned,
but the few brethren who were left alive, Bro.
Joseph Young being among the number, did
all in their power to bury the dead, and com-
fort the wounded. After the mob were done
with the butchery, they set to plundering and
took nearly everything we had. They took a
pocket-book of father's and cut it open and
took seven hundred dollars out of it and threw
the book away. I have the old book now.
Mother being of very delicate constitution,
the trouble and exposure brought on a linger-
ing disease from which she suffered for thir-
teen years. She died in 1852, while crossing 
the plains.
	FANNY KOFFORD.
Spring City, May 19, 1878.


OBITUARY.

	DIED AT North Ogden, Weber Co., April 30,
1878, of chronic asthma and dropsy, after an
illness of five years, Anne Austin, wife of Sam-
uel Knowles. Deceased was born at Bough-
ton, Aluph, Kent, England, March 7th, 1812.
She was baptized in the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, May 22d, 1852, by Elder
George Nichols; emigrated to Utah with her
husband and family, Nov. 11th, 1873. She
was a loving wife, a kind and indulgent moth-
er, and in a[-]l her affliction was never heard to
murmur or comp[-]ain; she died as she had lived
a faithful Latter-day Saint.


MISS BECKER AT RETFORD.

	Public meetings have been held recently in
many towns in England to consider the ques-
tion of extending the Parliamentary Suffrage
to women householders. At these meetings
usually presided over by the Mayor or one of
his council, many Reverends, professors, and
people of note take part in the proceedings.
A deputation of ladies from the National So-
city for Woman's Suffrage attends and ans-
wers to objections. At a numerously attend-
ed meeting at Retford Apr. 10, a good deal of
interest and curiosity was awakened to hear
Miss Lydia E. Becker of Manchester and Mrs.
Oliver Scratcherd of Leeds. The Rev. H. J.
Church, M. A., in his remarks asked this ques-
tion "How did the ladies propose that if
they recieved the rights of citizens they would
perform the dutios of citizen. For he imag-
ined they would be called upon to defend their
country. They would have to take their share
in preserving the public peace, and, if occas-
ion should arise, to defend their coasts against
invaders. They asked for political privileges
but, as far as he was aware, did not propose
to share political duties. They heard too
much of rights and too little of duties. He
was not prepared to make a speech against
this demand on which, indeed, his opinion
was undecided. He did most distinctly ask
for information."
	"Miss Becker rose to reply to the questions
which she said the gentlemana had so calmly
and moderately, and in such a proper spirit
addressed to them. She hoped the answer she
would give would satisfy his mind. He asked
whether women in asking for political rights,
were prepared to undertake duties of citizens.
She said certainly they were prepared fully to
accept whatever share of political or public
duty could rightly be demanded. The duties
of men and women in the State,in the family,
in society, were equally important; it was also
true they were in some respects diverse. That
was there were some things which men could
do better than women, and some things which
women could do better than men. If men prop-
erly performed their social and family duties,
political power was given them; if women ful-
filled all that could be expected of them in
the family and the State, they were equally
entitled to political power and consideration.
As to juries she was one of those who thonght
the administration of justice would be im-
proved if women had some recognized legal
part in law courts, other than the right of ap-
pearing as prisoners in the dock, or even in the
witness-box. Women prisoners and witnesses
had to go through painful ordeals: They were
examined by men judges, men barristers, men
lawyers, and when anything particularly hor-
rible took place, innocent women witnesses
were vivisected while they were deprived of
the protection of every woman in court. As to
the defense of the country, no doubt it was
true that women had a most terrible interest
in questions of peace or war. When the coun-
try had been imperilled women had never been
behind hand in taking their share. Suppose
they were exposed to an invasion, is there a
man present who thought a woman would
shrink from her duty? (Loud cries of no!)
When the Crimean war took place did not
Miss Florence Nightingale (the remainder of
the sentence was lost amid enthusiastic up-
roar, some shouting Hurrah! at the top of their
voices) There were more ways than one of de-
fending their country." During Miss Beck-
er's speech she was interrupted frequently by
applause and cheering.


6		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

	A few of my thoughts on the religion we
believe in. When I look around and see
so many of the outside world denying even
the existenne of God, it makes me shudder
for them and I often wonder what they see
in life worth living for; how I pity them in
their ignorance. When I reflect upon these
things, I thank the Lord that I am a Lat-
ter-day Saint, and striving to be more and
more worthy of the name. Let us strive
hard so that we can truly feel that we have
gained one step nearer our God each day of
our lives. We sometimes think that our
trials are more than we can bear, I think if
we would keep the reward in view we
would not think so much about them; only
for a few hours as it were have we to serve
our Heavenly Father and keep the com-
mandments that He has given us, and then
eternal happiness is ours. Is any sacrifice
too great to make for such a boon? let us
try and think not, and I know the more we
try to live our religion, the more the Lord
helps us, sometimes we are tempted to go
astray, but it is only when we forget our re-
ligion, so let us always remember for what
we are living; we have so many blessings
for which we ought to be thankful, even
were it only our meetings, but it seems as
though we have to be prevented from at-
tending them before we can realize their
true value. It has certainly proved so in
my case, but I do try to realize how much
more I am blessed than those who do not
understand the Gospel, yet I fear I fall far
short of the mark. After having had a
knowledge of the truth of our religion giv-
en us we must live up to it, or how much
greater will be our condemnation than that
of those who have not received that knowl-
edge. I often think that we cannot fully
comprehend the glory of the work in which
we are engaged, or we would never falter
for a moment but devote ourselves more
earnestly to our religion.
						LOUIE MORRIS.
	11 Ward, S. L. City, Apr. 1st, 1878.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

				CLARKSTON, MAY 15, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	Feeling interested in the welfare of Zion,
and also in the young and rising generation,
I offer a few of my thoughts on the subject
of training children; having a family of
children of my own and desiring that they
may become useful men and women in the
kingdom of God, and thinking it is every
mother's wish for their sons and daughters
to become useful in the kingdom, I have re-
flected much on the best course to pursue.
Sisters let us teach our children to be watch-
ful and prayerful and truthful, and keep the 
company of good Latter-day Saints; let us
as parents set them good examples, such as
will be worthy of imitation, in things both 
temporal and spiritual. Although our tri-
als may be great let us try and overcome so
that we may gain the prize in store for the
faithful. I know for one that the adver-
sary is over on the alert to tempt us to do
wrong and lead us in by and forbidden
paths. How happy had we ought to feel
to think we have wise men to counsel us
who hold the Holy Priesthood. Let us
obey them and put in practice what we are
taught; let us teach our daughters to dress
modestly and as becomes Latter-day Saints,
and not allow ourselves to talk against any
of the principles of the Goepel, for we know 
that they are pure and holy, and calculated

[Column 2]
to save us in the Celestial kingdom of
heaven.						J. G.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I feel that I cannot remain silent when
there is so much that should be said in the
cause of Zion. How firm we ought to be
in the cause of truth, for truth can never
die, it is firm as the "Rock of Ages." and
will last to all eternity. There are many
that live in the midst of persecution all their
lives; but it causes them to know in whom
they trust. We cannot depend on the arm
of flesh, we cannot be proven unless we are
tried as gold seven times purified in the
furnace. Trials are for our good if we are
patient, although they may be hard to bear
at the time, but we must realize from
whence the blessings come. I realize that
the things that I pass through gives me
that experience that I could not get in any
other way; therefore it gives me great joy
to think that the Lord overrules all things
for the best good of all his faithful saints,
who love to do his will. I think many
times that this is a hurrying dispensation
in which we live. The Lord is overruling
all things for the advancement of Zion in
the Latter-days. When I look around and
see the manifestations of his power, I feel
anxious to assist in rolling on this great and
mighty work, for if we stand still the car
of time will pass us swiftly by and leave
us in the rear. It matters not how much
we are scoffed at or derided; we must ob-
serve the counsel of our Savior. He will
conduct the plan. Can we become the
working bees in the hive of Deseret, if we
do not accomplish our part of the labor that
is assigned us to do, that we can keep
everything in its proper place, that the
moths cannot find place among us; for what
keeps outside the hive cannot spoil the
honey, but it is the canker that is inside
that gnaws the vitals and lops the branches.
Let us try to keep a clear conscience, void
of offence towards God and man; let this be
our aim and object, that the spirit of peace
may be and abide with us from this time
henceforth and forever.
	Wishing success to your most valuable
paper, I am yours,
			Respectfully,
					SARAH SUDWEEKS.
	Circle Valley, Pinto Co.


SERICULTURE.

	ROCKVILLE, KANE Co., April 20th, '78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I write to inform you of the progress of
silk culture in this place. When the coun-
sel of President Young was given for the
Relief Society to assume the responsibility
of raising silk, the society which had been
formed was merged into the Relief Society,
and their first efforts were directed to build-
ing a house which was accomplished by
subscription in time to use last year, but in
consequence of the cold damp Weather,
very few worms hatched, but those that did
were raised with hardly an exception.  W[-]
have plenty of eggs, having raised five doz-
en. They are just commencing to hatch
and if they do well we shall have some
worms to spare besides some silk we raised
last year.
	The society owns a lot and have planted
10,000 mulberry cuttings and a quart of seed
in it, (the same lot on which the silk
house is situated), they are doing well at
present.
		Respectfully Yours,
					BERTHA OLSEN,
	Superintendent Rockville Silk Society.


EXTRACTS, FROM "THE LITTLE
HEALTH OF LADIES."

BY FRANCES POWER COBBE.

	The thin, papersoled-boots which leave
the wearer to feel the chill of the pavement
or the damp of the grass wherever she may
walk, must have shortened thousands of
lives in Europe, and even more in America.
Combined with these, we have now the
high heels, which in a short period convert
the foot into a shapeless deformity, no
longer available for purposes of healthful
exercise. An experienced shoemaker in-
formed the writer that, between the results
of tight boots and high heels, he scarcely
knew a lady of fifty who had what he could
call a foot at all—they had mere clubs. And
this is done, all this anguish endured, for
the sake of—beauty!
	Bad as stays, and chig[-]ons, and high heels,
and paint, and low dresses, and all the oth-
er follies of dress are, I am, however, of
opinion that the culminating folly of fash-
ion, the one which has most wide-spread
and durable consequences, is the mode in
which for ages back women have contrived
that their skirts should act as drags and
swaddling-clothes, weighing down their
hips and obstructing the natural motion of
the legs. Two hundred years ago the im-
mortal Perrette, when she wanted to carry
her milk-pail swiftly to market, was obliged
to dress specially for the purpose:	*	*	*
From that time to this the "cotillon simple"
—modest, graceful, and rational—has been
the rare exception, and every kind of flounce
and furbelow, hoops and crinolines, pan-
niers and trains, "tied back" costume, and
"robe collante," has been successively the
bane of women's lives, and the slow de-
stroyer of their activity.
	It has been often remarked that the saga-
city of Romish seminarists is exhibited by
their practice of compelling boys destined
for the priesthood to flounder along the
streets in their long gowns, and never per-
mitting them to cast them aside or play in
the close fitting clothes wherein English
lads enjoy their cricket and foot-ball. The
obstruction to free action, though perhaps
slight in itself, yet constantly maintained,
gradually tames down the wildest spirits to
the level of ecclesiastical decorum. But the
lengthiest of "soutanes" is a joke com-
pared to the multitudinous petticoats which
up to the last year or two, every lady was
compelled to wear, swathing and flowing
about her ankles as if she were walking
through the sea. Nor is the fashion of
these latter days much better, when the
scantier dress is "tied back"—as I am in-
formed—with an elastic band, much on the
principle that a horse is "hobbled" in the
field; and to this a tail a yard long is added,
which must either be left to draggle in the
mud or must occupy an arm exclusively to
hold it up. In youth these skirts are bad
enough, as exercising a constant check on
free and healthful movement; but the mo-
ment that the elastic steps begin to give
place to the lassitude of middle life, the
case is desperate. There is no longer en-
ergy to overcome the impediments created
by the ridiculous "spancels," and the poor
donkey of a woman hobbles daily round a
shorter and shorter course, till at forty or
fifty she tells her friends with a sigh that 
she finds (she cannot imagine why) that she
cannot walk at all!
	Does decency require such a sacrifice as
this? Does the utmost strain of feminine
modesty ask for it? If it were so, I for one,
should leave the matter with a sigh, as not 
to be remedied. But who in his senses


dreams that such is the case? Who, in the
age of "robes collantes" and "decollettee"
dresses, can pretend that a reasonably full,
simply-cut silk or cloth skirt, reaching to
the ankles and no longer, would not fulfill
immeasurably better than any fashion we
have seen for many a day the requirements
of true womanly delicacy? It is for fash-
ion, not decency, that the activity of wo-
men is thus crushed, their health ruined,
and (through them) the health of their
children. I hold it to be an indubitable
fact that if twenty years ago a ratioual and
modest style of dress had been adopted by
Englishwomen and encouraged by Eng-
lishmen, instead of being sneered down by
fops and fools, the health not only of wo-
men, but the sons of women, i. e., of the
entire nation, would now be on altogether a
different plane from what we find it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		7


R. S. REPORTS.

						MALAD; IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send a brief report of the Y. L. M.
I. A. and its organization, thinking it
would be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT. We had the pleasure of a
visit from our beloved sisters, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and Mrs. Elizabeth Davis, from
Salt Lake City, on the 2d November, 1877,
and after some valuable counsel and in-
struction the young ladies were organized
as follows:
	Elvira Harrison, President,
	Anne Colton,	}
	Matilda Lusk,	}
	Ruth Williams,	}	Counselors,
	Elizabeth Dredge, }
	Maggie Price,	}
	Susan Thomas,	}
	Annie Sawyer, Secretary,
	Jane Lusk, Assistant Secretary,
	Sarah J. Williams, Treasurer
	We have fifty-eight members, and there
are several young ladies that we hope will
be induced to join yet. We are striving
after those things that pertain to self cul-
ture and improvement. Although not
able to send a long list of figures in the
form of donations, still we have done a lit-
tle in that direction; we have purchased a
record book and several things for the So-
ciety, and have a little cash on hand; we
have made a good quilt, and put two shares
in the Brigham City Factory. We intend
the coming summer to commence to store
up grain, according to the counsel of the
servants of the Lord. Our beloved Presi-
dent, Mrs. Elvira Harrison, though weak
in body, is striving faithfully with the
young ladies and we feel in our hearts to
pray the Lord to bless her with His Spirit,
strengthen her weak body, cheer and com-
fort her heart in her labors of love among
the young. It is gratifying to mark the
spirit of perseverance among the young la-
dies in carrying out the counsel of our
President in studying the first principles of
the Gospel. Our young ladies commit to
memory passages from the Bible, Book of
Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants
upon the subjects of faith and repentance;
thus we are trying to treasure up in our
hearts the word of the Lord, and prepare
ourselves for future usefulness in the king-
dom of our God.
	We have an excellent Sabbath School
here, and Bishop Dunford, with the super-
intendents and teachers, take great interest
in instructing the young that attend, giv-
ing tickets and rewards to the best behaved


scholars. The spirit of progress is making
rapid strides among the young men; we
are proud and happy to see them standing
forth valiant for God and His kingdom,
filling missions and giving instructions to
their younger brethren; we feel thankful
to the Lord for these praiseworthy institu-
tions, and pray Him to bless them, and all
who labor with them.
	Praying the Lord to bless our sisters who
love the progress of our Father's kingdom,
	MRS. ANNE SAWYER, Secretary,
		MRS. JANE LUSK, Ass't Sec'y.


[Column 1]

AN OLD STORY OF AN IRISH WO-
MAN'S WIT.

	A long time ago, when giants were plenty
in Ireland, there lived on the borders of
the county Armagh one Barney M'Connell,
who lawfully came under the above appel-
lation, being seven feet high, and made in
proportion. His prowess was well known,
and acknowledged for many a mile round;
but there was one thing that grieved Bar-
ney above a little, namely, that he could
get nobody to stand before him in his own
country. Now report spoke of a certain
giant in Scotland who was laboring under
the like grief, and for precisely the same
cause; therefore, Barney, after consulting
his friends on the subject, sent a challenge
to the Scotch giant, to "come over to Ire-
land and get the concait taken out of him-
self." After the due time the bearer of the
challenge returned with word that it had
been accepted, and further stated that he
was advised to inform Barney that he had
better make his will, get his coffin made,
etc., as he that he was about to encounter,
never left his work half done. "Did you
see him?" asked Barney.	"Faith an' I
did," said the messenger. "What is he
like?" interrogated the giant. "Faith Bar-
ney, avic, he's like anything at all but a
mortal being."	How big is he?" asked
Barney, looking anything but pleased at
the description of his rivial. "How big is
he, did you say? Faith he's as big as the
ould tower forninst the door, an' a head and
shoulders on him like Father M'Gurney's
bull, an' by all accounts he'll ait you alive."
Barney began to feel rather uncomfortable
at the prospect before him, and straightway
went to consult his wife, as to what should
be done in the event of his rival proving to
be such as his messenger had represented.
While they were thus engaged, one of the
children came running in and exclaim-
ed, "Daddy, come to the door, and see the
great big man that's coming up the hill!"
Barney peeped through the chinks of the
door, and to his great terror saw the mon-
ster.
	One look was enough to satisfy him that
his messenger had not exaggerated his ac-
count of him, and turning to his wife, he
said, "Shela, jewell, I'm ett alive, for sar-
tin! Here comes the Scotch baist to drum
your poor Barney." When Shela heard of
the approach of the coming foe, and saw
her lord's utter inability to wage war with
one so far superior in strength and size, she
concluded that it was only by some piece of
woman's wit that her husband could escape
from the affair without dishonor, and ac-
cordingly, she gently lifted the child out of
the cradle, and depositing it on the bed in
the inner room, made the father get in its
place, and covering him up with a quilt,
gently seated herself and resumed her
work. After a few moments, in walked the
cause of all the disturbance, and demanded
an interview with the giant. Shela, after
motioning with her hand for him to keep

[Column 2]

quiet; walked gently across the floor to
where he stood, and in an undertone told
him Barney had gone out to the woods.
The giant informed her that he intended
awaiting his return. "Very well," said
Shela, "only don't make a word of noise for
the life that's in you; for there's nothing
makes him more furious than to hear the
child crying when he comes home." By
this time the giant had seated himself on a
bench, and was quietly surveying the
apartment; but when his eye rested on the
cradle, with a look of unutterable astonish-
ment, he asked what was in it? "In it!"
cried Shela, "don't you see its the child
that's in it; an' Heaven help you if you
wake him; the craythur didn't get a wink
of sleep last night with the two back teeth
he's cutting." The giant, with a look of
terror and astonishment, asked what size
the father was. "Faith, and I can't tel
you," said Shela, "'cause I never measured
him; but that gossoon (pointing to the cra-
dle), when the father is angry, runs and
hides himself in one of his boots." "Laird
save us!" exclaimed the giant; "I winna
mind waiting the noo, lassie, I maun be
gaun; gude morning;" and so saying he took
to his heels, and never thought himself
safe until he got among the hills of his own
country.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	PROF. JOSEPH Henry, L. L. D., lately
deceased, was specially distinguished for
his discoveries in electro-magnetism. Prof.
Henry was in his eighty-first year, but ac-
tively working in his scientific pursuits
until within a few weeks of his death.

	AS T[-]E Forty-Fifth Congress draws
toward its close; people watch with keen
interest the business of each day's proceed-
ings. Many things yet remain unsettled
that it was fully anticipated would be de-
cided during the present session. There
are so many bills now pending that the
members will be compelled to dispatch
business rapidly, if they get through all
prior to apjournment. Much has been
hoped for, by those who have the best in-
terests of the country at heart, from the
present administration, but little has been
accomplished as yet to better the condition
of the affairs of the nation. There is a
fear abroad, seemingly, of secret combina-
tions, and a dread of communism, and
these elements of confusion would act dis-
astrously upon any government, or people.

	ACCOUNTS OF the Eastern dificulties, so
far as we are able to understand them, are
very vague. One day they will and the
next day they wont. Whether they will
ever be able to come to an amicable arrange-
ment seems doubtful. It is now stated by
the "London Post" that Lord Salisbury will
be the English and Count Schonvaloff, pro-
bably, the Russian plenipotentiary in the
Congress. A Paris correspondent says: "It
is thought that the Congress will come to
an agreement in the chief points, and
leave details to resident ambassadors and
second plenipotentiaries. A St. Petersburg
dispatch says Congre[-]s will establish the
general principles of the conference, the
ambassadors meet afterwards at Constanti-
nople. The future adjustment of affairs,
or whether peace or war is the result of the
efforts at reconciliation, is in the hands of
One who turn and overturns kingdoms,
thrones and d minions, and will continue
so to do, until "He whose right it is to reign
shall come."


8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"FROM HIM THAT HATH NOT, SHALL BE
	TAKEN AWAY EVEN THAT WHICH HE
	HATH.
	The Utah question at every session of 
Congress illustrates the above Scripture.
Not a session for the last half dozen but a
bill has been introduced to disfranchise the
women of Utah. Who supposes this at-
tempt would dare be made if the women
of the United States possessed the ballot?
Nobody! Who supposes such a suggestion
would ever have been made in regard to
Wyoming, if the women of the United
States possessed the ballot? Not a single
politician has such an idea in his head.
He knows that he strikes at the women of
the Territories because the women of the 
States are politically powerless. If the
women of the States possessed the ballot
they could not only protect themselves, but 
protect other women also.—"The National
Citizen."


THE TORNADO in Wisconsin is one of 
the most dreadful ever known in this coun-
try. About thirty lives were lost, and
from fifty to one hundred persons injured.
The damages to property is estimated at
several hundred thousand, but cannot as
yet be known positively. It is said a storm
similar to this passed over about the same
line of country-twenty-five years ago. The
thunder and lightning accompanying the
storm was most terrific.


ELIZABETH Boynton Herbert has edito-
rial charge of a small part of the Chicago
Inter Ocean, called the Woman's Kingdom.
She says many good things to both men
and women, and her style is pleasing, at-
tractive and practical.


Fruit Pudding: Take one bowlful of thick
cream, two eggs, a teaspoonful salcratus; mix
gently and roll it about an inch in thickness, then
spread it with fruit of whatever kind preferred,
and roll it up in a clean cloth and boil it or steam
it two hours; it may be eaten with cream and
sugar.
	To Remove Iron Mold: Wet the spot; lay it
over a hot-water plate, or strain it over a basin
with hot water in it; put a little salts of lemon on
the spot; wash it as soon as the spot is removed.


[Column 1]
LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[unreadable handwritten text]
[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I., over the Ta[-]lo[-]ing Department.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

