VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1879.		No. 22.


[For the EXPONENT.
SONNET.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

I love thee still! these words contain
A language that the angels do rehearse!
Yes, Yes, 'tis written in the universe—
The hills and mountains do its truth proclaim!
The running brooks and all the mountain streams;
The glorious sun, with his effulgent beams;
The ambrosial air, the flower's sweet perfume;
The song of birds, the stars that do illume;
And ah! the silver moon, the Queen of night,
On which the lover's mind doth so delight—
All these proclaim, with never failing thrill,
To the responsive soul, I love thee still!

Salt Lake City, April 6, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT.
	TRUE WOMANLINESS.

Woman the foe of woman! Can it be?
Woman should be all love and charity;
No dark suspicion through her soul should steal—
She should go forth to comfort and to heal;
To cheer the tempted as they strive to stand,
And, if they fall, to give a helping hand;
To scatter flowers in the path of woe
Is woman's mission to the world below.
Should she fling serpents in a sister's face.
And lips and tongue be linked with her disgrace?
God is the Judge of all—let thoese beware;—
And glory not whose feet escape the snare.

Woman, relentless, iron-browed and stern,
Watching her sister's steps at every turn
Of life's sad way—with loud, indignant calls

B[-]dding the world to brand her as she falls—
is not true woman, though she bear her name[-]
For the true woman mourns her sister's shame,
Steals to her chamber when the world's asleep,
Not to upbraid her, but with her to weep;
Kisses the lips by agony made white,
And whispers blessings with her soft goodnight.
						MRS. E. A. W. HOPKINS.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN IN THE ARIZONA MISSION.

	We are so isolated here there seems but
little to write that would interest the sis-
ters of Utah. If we are living as saints
surely we have something to say in defense
of the principles revealed from heaven, and
of the many mercies our God has shown
unto us. We have been greatly blest with 
good health the past year; though three
weeks ago Sister Malinda Wanslee died.
She was from Arkansas. Left a husband
and three little girls, the youngest but
seven days old. She was impressed from
the first that her time had come. The
brethren and sisters exercised all the faith
they could, and she was repeatedly prayed
for. She said she knew the Lord was able
to heal her, yet felt it was his will to take
her to himself. It is ever sad to see a
friend laid in the silent grave but doubly
so when there are so few together as there
are here. We know we have more reason
to mourn for the living than those who die
with the hope of a glorious resurrection,and 
we should all live so that we can have that
hope, and merit the blessings in store for
the faithful. We have never seen  a time
when the evil one held such sway over the
hearts of the ungodly, and that is why we
as saints should strive the harder to do
right, so we too may not full victims to the
tempting of Satan.

[Column 2]

	The EXPONENT contains great comfort in
its pages. It seems every number is bet-
ter and more interesting, or at least I enjoy
and appreciate it more. I glory in the
courage of the noble sisters who went to
Washington to plead the cause of Zion, and
I pray God to bless them and the hundreds
of brave wives and daughters who daily
defend the principles of the Gospel and es-
pecially that of Celestial Marriage. I thank
my heavenly father I have never spoken
against it, and through the teachings of a
good mother always respected it. I was
pleased with "A little sketch" by Olive
Branch in the last paper, and can say I know
many such true-hearted unselfish wives
who would not exchange their conditions
for the wealth of Rothschild; and it is my
belief if we are not happy, it is because of
our weakness and our lack of determina-
tion to overcome our inherent selfishness.
No wife need to fear that her place will be
usurped by another if she is worthy. God
is first and will reward according to the
merits of each, and if the first is a faithful
Latter-day Saint the rest are very apt to
follow her example. Love begets love, and
her kindness will win the respect of all.
There may be exceptions but it will gen-
erally prove so. How much we miss the 
great and good meetings our Utah breth-
ren and sisters enjoy; yet we would not
wish to return, for we feel if we honor our
calling to this land "our father" will amply
reward us for the little sacrifice we are re-
quired to make at present. I think in due
time the sisters will be able to do as much
good in redeeming the Indians as the breth-
ren; for if the civilized mothers need con-
stant teachings to aid them to bring their
children up in the ways of the Lord, how
much more does the savage mother need.
The Navajo woman has a very pleasing
appearance. She is much superior to the
women of the Northern Tribes of Indians.
I trust I have not wearied the patience of
your readers, or that they will not forget to
help the Indian Missionaries with their
faith and prayers.
	MARY STUART
Savoia, New Mexico, March 17, 1879.


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
		A TRIP ON THE CARS.

	Towards the latter part of the summer of
1878, circumstances rendered it necessary
for me to make a flying visit to the metro-
polis.
	Having passed over the route several
times, famaliarity with the natural objects
of interest along the line, detracted some-
what their novelty, and as my book failed
to rivet my attention, I devoted myself to
the study of human nature in its various
phases as represented in a railway car.
	There was the usual assortment of pass-
engers, including the old gentleman with
gold-bound spectacles silently devouring
the contents of his newspaper, the chubby-
fisted urchin munching an enormous piece
of cake, the tired mama with the inevitable
restless baby etc. etc.
	My attention was attracted by a company
of gay pleasure seekers consisting of a gen-

[Column 2]
tleman and two ladies. To the elder of the
ladies, and the gentleman, I merely gave a
passing glance in my general hasty survey
of the car, but there was something about
the younger lady that fixed my attention.
She was dark and petite, with liquid brown
eyes and a dimpled laughing mouth. At-
tired in a dainty traveling suit. She looked
as fresh and sweet as a rosebud. In inno-
cent abandon she had thrown her hat aside,
the better to enjoy the mountain breeze
that came through the open window. She
had removed her glove from the perfect
right hand, in which she held a cluster of
bleeding-hearts and pansies. It was a 
pleasant picture to look upon; in fact, sim-
ple perfection from the crown of the curly
head to the tip of the dainty boot.
	Forthwith I commenced to weave roman-
ces about my little party, establishing her
without hesitation upon the pedestal of re-
finement and purity.
	She was engaged in an animated conver-
sation with her companions, the words of
which were inaudible to me. But present-
ly, in answer to some remark from the
gentleman opposite, I saw the laughing
brown eyes raised, the corners of the sweet
mouth dimpled, and the perfect lips formed
the words "you bet!"
	Horror! my air-castles were ruthlessly
dashed to the ground! The radiant crea-
ture whom I had invested with all the
qualities of a refined and noble nature, was
after all only a specimen of the young lady
of the period, who would forfeit her claim
to the attributes one would be led by her
outward appearance to credit her with, by
allowing herself to use slang. I was di[-]ap-
pointed and disgusted, for slang is my pet
aversion.
	I betook myself to my book, finding it
much more satisfactory to study the ficti-
tious characters described by the author,
than the real human creatures by whom
we are surrounded, and whose faults are so
palpable.
	But I could'nt forget the sho[-]k to my
feelings caused by my traveler's careless
words. I could imagine the feelings of
Fanny Fern when she saw a fair young
lady, in an exquisite morning toilette, come
down to the fashionable late hotel break-
fast table, and after examining the exten-
sive bill of fare, order—"Coffee, fried pigs
feet, fried oysters,omelette and pork-steak!"
						JENNIE JINGLE.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	TWENTY ladies graduated from the Wo-
men's Medical College in Philadelphia last
week.

	HEREAFTER, lobbying is classified in
California among the felonies, to be punish-
ed by fine and imprisonment.—Ex.

	A PETITION for the restoration of the 
prohibitory law of 1854, signed by 50[-]0 wo-
men, has been presented in the Seuate in
Connecticut.—Ex.

	THE committee on Woman Suffrage of 
the Connecticut legislature has reported
against giving women the right to vote in
school meetings and on the liquor question.


224		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

	Statistical for Quarter ending March 21,
1879.

Teachers........................................................... 438
Officers and members...................................2248
Average attendance........................................ 659
Church papers reported................................  199
WOMAN'S EXPONENT..................................... 399

FINANCIAL.

On hand at date of last report:
Cash.........................................................$ 455 99
Property.................................................... 5168 47
Wheat....................................................... 2486 bu.
Receipts for Quarter:
Cash.........................................................$ 594 52
Property.................................................... 1153 17
Wheat......................................................... 183 bu.
Disbursed                   Cash                     Property
To the needy...............$334 33...................$958 37
To the Temple............. 113 58.................... 181 36
Home Industries.........            .....................   11 00
Home books...............   35 60....................
To building...................388 99....................
To Indian fund..............            ...................     2 00
In treasury.................... 560 00.........  .........4779 96
2669 bu. of wheat stored.
					M. I. HORNE, Pres.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE BOX ELDER
STAKE.

	Third Quarterly Conference of R. S. and
Y. L. M. I. A. of Box Elder Stake of Zion,
held March 10, 1879. Pres. Harriet Snow
presiding. Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Bishops
of different localities, Presidents of R. S.,
and officers of Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A.
were present. After singing and prayer
the minutes of previous conference were
read and approved; reports of the branch
societies read by the Secretary. Pres. Har-
riet Snow spoke in her usual motherly
manner upon the principles of our religion,
and then requested the presidents of R. S.
to give verbal reports, who did so, occupy-
ing the principal part of the day. Meeting
adjourned till 10 o'clock March 11.
	Met per adjournment March 11, 1879.
After the opening exercises Pres. H. Snow
addressed the conference, dwelling upon
sericulture, and that the sphere of woman
was one of great importance. The re-
mainder of the day was devoted to the Y.
L. M. I. and P. A. A condensed report of
the Y. L. M. I. A. read by the Secretary,
L. May Snow. Verbal reports by the presi-
dents of both M. I. A. and P. A., each do-
ing honor to the cause of improvement, in
which they seem to be solely engaged.
Reports of P. A. read by Virginia Snow.
Remarks by Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Bishop
Dunford and others. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing. Benediction.
	Quarterly report of R. S. Box Elder
Stake.
Teachers......................................... 93
Members.......................................657
Meetings.......................................118
Average attendance......................421
EXPONENT taken........................ 72
Receipts.
Wheat............................170 bu. 49lbs.
Cash.....$209 24 | Property.....$699 32
Disbursements.
Temple...................................$118 95
Home Industries.....................   44 15
Charitable purposes................   64 35
Lamanites...............................     4 25


Books....................................      6 20
Missionary Fund...................     4 00
Public buildings.................... 345 13
Remaining in Treasury,
Cash..........$50 35 | Property...278 20
					M. E. SNOW, Sec'y.

	Quarterly report of Y. L. M. I. A.
Members...................................  477
Meetings...................................     60
Average attendance...................232

Receipts:
Cash....$119 30 | Property....$117 40

Disbursements:
Temple.................................$   3 50
Public building....................   49 75
Books..................................    42 30
Associations' expenses.......    3 00
Remaining in Treasury:
Cash......$29 75 | Property.....$117 40
		LYDIA MAY SNOW, Sec'y.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	Our Second Quarterly Conference was
held March 14. The officers of the Stake
were all present; the several wards of St.
George were represented by the presidents,
who all gave good reports. President Mi-
nerva Snow feels the spirit of her mission;
she arose and addressed the meeting, speak-
ing words of comfort and encouragement
to the sisters. Mrs. Anna S. Ivins bore her
testimony to the truth of the work. Presi-
dent J. D. T. McAllister was present for a
short time, and advised the sisters to adopt
neatness and simplicity in their style of
dress, and not to follow the fashions of the
world. Rockville was represented by Sis-
ter Smith, and Toquerville by Sister Slack;
both manifested a humble spirit and a de-
sire to do right.
The following is our statistical and finan-
cial report for the quarter:

STATISTICAL.

Teachers................................................  61
Members...............................................605
Meetings................................................100
Average attendance.............................233
WOMAN'S EXPONENT..........................  87

FINANCIAL.

On hand at date of last report:
Cash.................................................$ 15 29
Property.......................................... 983 66
Wheat..................................................5 bu.

Receipts during quarter:

Cash................................................$ 36 15
Property......................................... 216 17
Wheat...............................................70 bu.
Disbursements            Cash.         Property.
To the needy.............$ 5 10..........$   57 41
Emigration................. 27 00
Temple.......................   1 00..........     56 00
Home Industries......    5 90..........     53 41
Books........................    6 65
Missionary................    4 14
On hand....................  76 20.........  2,949 66
Wheat.................................................75 bu.

Relief Society Stake officers:

	Minerva W. Snow, President,
	Anna S. Ivins,		} Counselors.
	Hannah Romney,	}
	Eliza S. Calkins, Secretary,
	Elizabeth P. Bentley, Ass't Sec'y.
	St. George, March 19, 1879.


THE price of Julia E. Smith's Bible is
$3. 00, which includes the postage.


PEOPLE WITHOUT HOMES.

HABITS OF LIFE OF FASHIONABLE ENG-
LISH FAMILIES.

	"Home sweet home, there is no place
like home," is often said and sung by peo-
ple who never care to be at home, and in-
deed are ever ready to escape from home,
and when at home are always looking for-
ward to the happy time when they shall
escape from the dreary, humdrum place.
In truth these people have no home; they
have a dwelling, but a dwelling is not the
exact synonym of a home. Architects can
build you a dwelling and put in it every
possible convenience--make it, as the arch-
itects say, replete with conveniences, but
no architect can make a home of it. Neither
Michel Angelo nor Palladio could do that.
Architects can build you a house, but to 
make it a home is beyond their power.
And yet the thing is not difficult to do. Day
laborers can do it. Not far from where I
live there is a palatial residence. It stands
in a magnificent park studded with ancient
trees. Dappled deer and tall antlered stags
roam about in the park. I have never been 
in the house, but I am told by one who
has—by the gardener, in fact—that all that
art can achieve has been done to make it a 
perfect residence, and yet, as my friend
told me, it is rarely occupied by the family.
In the London season, if not abroad, they
live in Belgrave Square. As soon as the
season is over they are off to the Continent
—Paris, Naples or Rome. In the winter
my Lord, and perhaps my Lady (there are
no children), come down, my Lord to hunt
and shoot; but they seldom stop there more
than a month or so; my Lady never more
than two or three weeks, as she "doesn't
like the place."
	"Well" he replied, "they never seem to
me to have what I should call a home. They
are never often together, and my Lord has
his friends, and my Lady hers. At least so I 
am told, but we know but very little here
about their London life. All I have to do 
with them is to send twice or three times a 
week fruit and flowers to the butler. Come
he said, and see my home."
	"With all my heart," said I, and im-
mediately we crossed the park and entered
a pretty double cottage, which I saw at
once was a "home." The room was spot-
lessly clean, as was everything in it. On
the sill of the quarried window was a row
of brilliant flowers. Through the open door
which led into the garden the sweet voices
of young children came to my ears. Pres-
ently the buxom matron came to greet me,
and asked me to take refreshments.
	"This," said my friend, as he dropped
into an old-fashioned easy-chair, "is my
home."
	"When I come here after my work is
done I do not envy my Lord."
"Nor I, my Lady," said the wife; "poor
miserable creatures." — Temperance Re-
former.


(THE General Statutes of Massachusetts
exempts property to the amount of $500 of
a widow or unmarried woman, and of any
"female" minor whose father is deceased,
if her whole estate, real or personal, not
otherwise exempted from taxation, does
not exceed in value the sum of $1,000. This
law, as it now stands, was framed in 1860,
but a law to exempt certain personal prop-
erty of unmarried women and widows
dates back to 1853. ED. N. C.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOU WILT NEVER GROW OLD.

BY MRS. HOWARTH.

Thou wilt never grow old,
	Nor weary, nor sad, in the home of thy birth:
My beautiful lily, thy leaves will unfold
	In a clime that is purer and brighter than earth.
Oh, holy and fair, I rejoice thou art there,
	In that kingdom of light, with its cities of gold;
Where the air thrills with angel hosannas, and where
		Thou wilt never grow old, sweet—
			Never grow old!

I am a pilgrim, with sorrow and sin
	Haunting my footsteps wherever I go:
Life is a warfare my title to win—
	Well will it be if it end not in woe.
Pray for me, sweet; I am laden with care;
	Dark are my garments with mildew and mould;
Thou, my bright angel, art sinless and fair,
		And wilt never grow old, sweet—
			Never grow old!

Now, canst thou hear, from thy nome in the skies,
	All the fond words I am whispering to thee?
Dost thou look down on me with the soft eyes,
	Greeting me oft ere thy spirit was free:
So I believe, though the shadows of time
	Hide the bright spirit I yet shall behold;
Thou wilt still love me, and, pleasure sublime,
		Thou wilt never grow old, sweet—
			Never grow old!

Thus wilt thou be when the pilgrim grown gray,
	Weeps when the vines from the hearthstone are riv[-]n;
Faith shall behold thee, as pure as the day
	Thou wert torn from the earth and transplanted to
		heaven.
Oh, holy and fair, I rejoice thou art there,
	In that kingdom of light, with its cities of gold,
Where the air thrills with angel hosannas, and where
		Thou wilt never grow o[-]d: sweet—
			Never grow old!


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
CRITICISM OF ANTI-POLYGAMY ME-
MORIAL.

	In reading the Memorial of the ladies of
the Anti-Polygamy Society, to Congress,
I find statements which in my estima-
tion are entirely erroneous and evince a
great lack of knowledge.
	First they state that Delegate Cannon
was petitioning for amnesty and promising
obedience to the law of 1862.
	Now I never heard through any other
source that Brother Cannon ever made such
a promise. I read in the "Deseret News"
that certain members of Congress proposed
something of the kind to him, but I feel
positive that he never accepted it. If he
had he would have died politically and re-
ligiously, for he has borne testimony in pub-
lic that plurality of wives was revealed to
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and that it was
a true principle. And had he given such a
promise, what assurance could he have had
that this constituents would obey, when he
knew that they had accepted that principle
as a part of their religious faith.
	Second: they also state that President
John Taylor while in France in 1853, then
having five wives, denied IN TOTO the ex-
istence of polygamy among the Mormons.
Here the memorialists are in error again.
In answer to this I will make a quotation
from the work entitled, "Three nights pub-
lic discussion between the Reverends C. W.
Cleeve, James Robertson, and Philip Cater,
and Elder John Taylor; on the 11, of July
1850 at Boulogne-sur-mer, France."
	Elder John Taylor speaking in reference
to some works published of an obscene
character referring to this people, says;
	We are accused here of polygamy and
actions the most indelicate, obscene and
disgusting, such as none but a corrupt and
depraved heart could have contrived, these
things are too outrageous to admit of belief,
therefore leaving the sisters of the white

[Column 2]

veil, the black veil and all other veils
with those gentlemen to dispose of togeth-
er with their authors as they think best. I
shall content myself by reading our views
of chastity and marriage, from a work pub-
lished by us.
	I fail to see any denial of plurality of
wives in the above extract and failed to do
so at the time, and wondered that he did
not do so, as the revelation on that subject
was not published until 1852, and think
his hearers had on some kind of very thick
veils or they could have seen it.
	Thirdly; they accuse the "Deseret News"
of casting reproach on the Supreme Court
of the Unitid States, that the decision in
the Reynolds case was rendered under pop-
ular pressure by judges who are feeble wit-
ted and cloudy minded.
	The memorialists had "Deseret News"
in such large letters before their eyes that
they failed to see the accusations of many
Eastern papers far more derogatory, even
hinting that these same judges accepted
$ 250,000 for their decision in the Electoral
College case.
	We have had the skimmed milk now
for the cream.
	Fourth; they ask Congress to so amend
the act of 1862 that it may become opera-
tive by making the general reputation of
conjugal relations proof of marriage and
living together in polygamy to constitute
the offence.
	Oh! Oh! Oh! just to think of Congress
making such a law. What would become
of them if they did, our penitenitaries would
be filled full of men who fill high positions
and are honored members of the best so-
ciety, and there would be but few left to
receive Anti-Polygamy petitions. If re-
port says true, the honorable petitioners
might have spared themselves the time
and expense of sending their petition: were
it granted it would strike home too close,
"for those that live in glass houses dare
not throw stones.
	MARY.
Grantsville, April 6, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT.
COMMENTS ON THE ANTI-POLYGAMY
				PETITION.

	On reading the last anti-polygamy peti-
tion and letter to Mrs. R. B. Hayes I could
not but query in my mind what the insti-
gators of that petition and letter wished to
accomplish.  Was it to rescue fallen, de-
graded creatures from the grasp of their
destroyers? Was it to introduce truth for
error? To give homes to the homeless,
husbands to the husbandless, and children
to make glad the hearts of the desolate?
Or was it to enact laws that would improve
our social position, make us better citizens
and allow us that liberty of conscience that
the fathers of this free and enlightened
country fought and died for? No! these
were not the motives.
	Wicked and designing men would like to
take possession of our happy homes, our
hard-earned property, our beautiful gardens
and fields of smiling grain; of our virtuous
and pure-minded daughters; it is this they
want. They would like to introduce their
grog shops and dens of iniquity, their bil-
liard rooms, and also their sectarian church-
es. How soon would our pleasant, happy
homes be turned into resorts for worldly-
minded men and women, yes, even evil
spirits and birds of prey; and because we
will not submit to these outrages, like the
fox they cry "sour grapes."
	Men from the first have signally failed in


their attempts to put down plural marriage;
now they have called to their aid some
foolish women—for foolish they are in this
respect, no matter how wise and intelligent
they may be in others. By flattery and
poor-pussyism they have so blinded these
women that they fail to comprehend the
motives of these unprincipled men, and are
led on to become traitors to their fellow-
sisters, to their own good common sense,
and to themselves as ladies of this enlight-
ened age. What care these busy-bodies for
the purity of this people, our social posi-
tion, our family relations, our prosperity,
our loyalty to the parent government?
	But it is this: we serve the true and liv-
ing God; we are willing to keep His com-
mandments and to raise up to Him a God-
fearing people—noble, stalwart sons, virtu-
ous, spiritual-minded daughters, who will
build up a kingdom of righteousness, and
make the earth fit for the coming of the
Son of man.
	Surely the blackness of darkness has
overshadowed them; and they see the pure
and humble through their own darkened
mirror. We ask not their sympathy, we
need it not; we care not for their censure,
we serve the Lord according to the dictates
of our consciences. We are determined to
stand by the right! We cannot give up our
husbands! we cannot allow our children to
be branded illegitimate!  Better let us hide
in the dens and caves of the earth, than
give up any of the pure principles of the
holy Gospel of the Son of God. The vision
becomes clearer. The winds may howl and
the waves dash against the old ship, Zion;
some of the seamen are washed overboard,
yet she rides majestically on, for at the
helm stands the Lord God of Hosts, and I
hear the still small voice say, "Fear not,
my children, I will fight your battles and
bring you safe to that desired haven of
peace and rest.
				M ELIZABETH LITTLE.
	March 20, 1879.


MINETSVILLE, BEAVER CO.

						March 17, 1879.

EDITIOR EXPONENT:

	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvem ent
Association here meet every Saturday.  We
number thirty six members. Our exercises
consist of Book of Mormon class, read-
ing from Church works and bearing testi-
mony. Much of the good spirit is felt in
our meetings. We also edit a monthly pa-
per entitled the "Young Ladies' Index:"
many excellent pieces are contributed by
the members of the Association. We de-
sire with the help of the Lord to do some
good, and be co-workers with our brethren
to help roll on the Latter-day work. Know-
ing that great events are at our doors, and
unless we keep pace with the times we
shall fall short of the blessings in store for
the faithful.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
I remain your sisters in the Gospel of Christ.
			Margaret A. Goodman, Pres.
			Frances Pamela Wood, Sec'y.


ALL unmarried women and widows in
England who are householders or rent-pay-
ers, can now vote on municipal questions.
But the Parliamentary Suffrage is still
withheld. The vote on the bill for this 
last was 103 for, to 217 against. The steady
work and courage of the Suffragists of
Great Britain will continue till Suffrage
there is as free to women as to men.


226		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMILINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1879.


[Column 1]
ZION'S HOPE.

	How often the remark is made that much of
Zion's future welfare depends upon the gener-
ation now growing up in these mountains.
Children born in the new and everlasting cov-
enant, lawful heirs to the holy priesthood,
children of promise. Yet how little have pa-
rents realized in the past the responsibilities
that rested upon them as the guardians to whose
care these precious spirits were entrusted. This
is the most difficult subject to treat upon, and
yet it is, perhaps, the most important one at
the present time. It embraces a large field of
great truths, and truths too, which should be
presented in a light that will strike forcibly the
fathers and mothers, tutors, guardians and
protectors of children.
	The subject itself forces upon the mind the
widest range of thought in the greatest variety
of phases.
	That the education of the youth in Zion
should be more carefully considered than it has
been, none will deny. That there is a slow
awakening to the enormity of the inevitable
result of neglect in the past is true; but even
this is only among the few. To relieve, in
some little degree, the tired and sometimes
overburdened mother, the Lord inspired (we
cannot say less) a few of his handmaidens to
introduce in the various wards and settlements
what is termed Primary Associations. These
are more especially for spiritual culture and to
impress upon the young and innocent the ac-
tual necessity of that training which develops
the higher nature.
	We are fully aware that much has been said
to mothers, more particularly in regard to the
disciplining of their children, that they may
grow up to be noble, honest, industrious and
virtuous men and women, honorable members
of society, and set an example worthy of imita-
tion. But to reach the hearts of children is
more especially what is needed; all the moral
lessons in the world will not eradicate the evils
which exist among the young, and which of late
are becoming so vividly apparent unless the
hearts of the children can be reached. To edu-
cate and cultivate the heart of the child to the
highest and noblest aspirations seems to us the
only possible method of correcting the wrongs
th[-]t now exist to an alarming extent. There are
of course some, perhaps many exceptions, but
even among the Latter-day Saints the children
are in many ways neglected in not being taught
principles that will give them strength and
power to resist temptation and flee from evil
influences.
	Notwithstanding the most careful and judi-
cious solicitude and watchfulness, children
will sometimes go astray and bring sorrow and
grief to the most conscientious and God fearing
parents; and in summing up or noticing in-
stances of this kind, it really seems there

[Column 2]
must be a wrong that dates far back and crops
out again after long years. These are things
not yet comprehended by those who have made
the science of life the study of years. These
are among the mysteries yet to be unfolded;
but to return to the simplicity of our subject.
	The Savior said, "Love is of God," and a com-
mon saying is "Love begets love," and "there
is no labor in love," these and many other fa-
miliar quotations might be given from the
Scriptures, and eminent authors; but the lives
of men and women themselves confirm the fact
that children must be trained up in love; and
"perfect love casteth out fear." Indulgence is
not love, nor the out-growth of love, but of
weakness, want of firmness, lack of decision,
energy, and of the requsites of character that
constitute true government, either in the
family or State.
	Mothers must, or should possess this con-
trolling or governing power to a large extent,
otherwise they are wholly unfitted to under-
take the training of immortal souls. There is
nothing more important in a woman's life
than the exercise of self-government, which
will admirably qualify her to govern wisely the
precious jewels committed to her charge. Per-
haps we should not be so positive, or speak of it
in so broad a sense; but until the children of
Zion are taught from their very infancy to res-
train evil passions, and direct the good properly,
it is useless to expect thorough reformation. If
the most delicate plants, transplanted from a
sunny soil, were given to those who dwell in
less genial climes, perhaps exposed to heavy
dews and poisonous gases, would they not need
the most constant care, that they might be pre-
served, and could it be expected they would
blossom into beauty without their nature and
condition being carefully studied.
	Yet it is expected that children transplanted
from heavenly soil need but little care and at-
tention while very young, except to minister to
their material wants. Children's natures
should be studied and they cannot be too ten-
derly, if judiciously cared for. And yet in this
land of enligtenment, there are children grow-
ing up without affection. Mothers are so busy
making and mending, and attending to house-
hold duties, they forget the little hearts that
beat beneath the elaborate or simple garments,
(it matters not which it may be) and so the little
child is sent out to play or off to school, and
merges into boyhood or girlhood lacking the
true cultivation of its best instincts, purified
through the fountain of mother-love.
	Duties of parents are not easily defined, even
in a general sense, and circumstances, temper-
aments, conditions and changes all have their
relative effect, but there is one grand, primeval
truth which characterizes all instances, and
that is the fact that, to the father and mother
the existence of the soul is due, and children
should not be thrown upon the world wholly
unprepared and unfortified, for their life-work.
Mothers do not drive your children from you,
but draw them near you and teach them the
pure principles of the Gospel, in love and ten-
derness, and while you would extend charity to
all, be sure you do not forget to bestow such
charity upon them, as their tender years and
hearts have need of. Do not wait until it is
too late to make the impression, but while you
have time and affection, spare no pains, but
remember the highest and holiest duty is the
charge of human souls. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON THURSDAY, April 17th, the Relief Society
of Davis County, will hold their annual meet-

[Column 2]

ing in the Farmington Meeting-house. It is
expected President Eliza R. Snow and other
sisters from this city will attend.
	TELEGRAM FROM Washington, April 14, states
that Arthur L. Thomas, of Piitsburg, has been
confirmed by the Senate as Secretary of Utah
Territory.
	ON MONDAY, April 14, at 12 o'clock, the cor-
ner stones of the Manti Temple were laid with
all the grand and imposing ceremony which
distinguish occasions such as these in building
Temples to the Most High. There were pres-
ent nine of the Apostles. President John
Taylor called the congregation to order, which
consisted of between three and four thousand
people.
	ON SUNDAY evening a large and crowded audi-
ence assembled in the Theatre at the Territo-
rial meeting of the Sunday Schools. All
parts of the Territory were definitely represent-
ed. The people were delighted to have in their
midst Hon. Geo. Q Cannon, delegate to Con-
gress and Territorial Superintendent of Sunday
Schools. He came home on a flying visit to
attend Conference.
	THE Territorial Conference of the Y. M. M.
I. A. was held in the Theatre on Tuesday eve-
ning, April 8th, 1879. The report was nearly
complete from every section of the Territory.
These societies are doing a great deal towards
the elevation and spiritual culture and im-
provement of the young. The audience was
very large, and after reading the reports, ad-
dresses were made by Elders Joseph F. Smith,
Erastus Snow, Moses Thatcher and Junius F.
Wells.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of this Stake
of Zion convened in the Tabernacle on Satur-
day, April 5th, at 10 a. m., Elder Angus M.
Cannon presiding. Reports were read from all
the wards; a few bishops also reported verbally.
The Relief Society, the Y. M. M. I. A. and the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake were also repre-
sented. Pres. Cannon stated very definitely
the condition of the building committee on the
New Tabernacle: just how much money was
needed to complete the work. A vote was
taken that the money should be furnished by
the people through the bishops of the several
wards. The Conference was well attended.
	ON SUNDAY morning, April 6, at 10 o'clock,
the hosts of Israel convened in the Tabernacle
to hold their Forty-Ninth Annual Conference.
The house was crowded to overflowing, and
many really could not obtain admission. The
Conference lasted three consecutive days, the
interest of speakers and hearers never flagging
in the least. Many powerful discourses were
delivered, and the people who came from a
distance must have felt amply repaid for their
toil and journey. The people need feeding
with the bread of life, and on occasions such as
these they partake freely. The Quorum of the
Twelve, in which the death of Elder Orson
Hyde had made a vacancy, was filled by elect-
ing Elder Moses Thatcher to complete the
number. It is impossible to make quotations,
even from the speakers' sermons, as much was
said that was excellent—but we cannot forbear
mentioning the fact that the sisters were not
forgotten. President John Taylor alluded to
the sisters' organizations, their benevolence
and their good works in a truly brotherly man-
ner, and it will no doubt encourage and
strengthen them in their several fields of labor.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We wish to give a brief account of a meeting
held in the 3d Ward Nov. 14, 1878, which was
called for the purpose of reorganizing the


Young Ladies' Association. Sisters S. M.
Heywood and Marinda Hyde were present,
and the reorganization was completed as fol-
lows:

	Martha Smith, President.
	Louisa Irvine,	} Counselors.
	Agnes Balto,		}
	Della Eardley, Secretary.
	Annie Weiler, Treasurer.
	After the business of organizing was finished,Sisters Heywood and Hyde made some very
interesting and appropriate remarks to the
girls, urging them to be faithful to their duties
and punctual to their meetings, and try and
create a spirit of kindness towards each other.
Their remarks were followed by several sisters
belonging to the ward, they having a great
desire for the welfare of the young, and will
do all they can in assisting to make their meet-
ings beneficial to them.
	There are thrirty-four members belonging to
the Relief Society in the Ward. The general
attendance is very small, but those few are
alive to their duties, and we wish unitedly to
be co-workers with our sisters throughout the
Church in building up the kingdom of God.
	Ever with you in the Gospel,
		MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, Pres't.
		MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Sec'y.
	THE YOUNG Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of the 8th Ward convened in the
ward meeting house, Feb. 21, 1879. Mrs. M.
A. Freeze, President of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake of Zion, and her Counselors, were pre-
sent. Meeting opened in the usual way. Mrs.
Louie Felt made some excellent remarks;
spoke upon young girls choosing partners for
life, and associating with those who are not of
our faith; also spoke upon the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, and advised every one to be 
careful what they say about it. She said she
was sorry so many mothers neglected to answer
their children when they asked questions.
	Mrs. Clara Young Conrad made a few re-
marks, and related how she received a testimo-
ny of this work. Miss Sarah Barney then
sang a song. Mrs. Freeze said: "There is a
calm and peac[-]ful influence in our midst. I
am pleased to see the punctuality you have in
commencing your meeting, and also the order
that is here. Store your minds with useful
knowledge, and try to improve In everything."
She dwelt earnestly upon the principle of Ce-
lestial marriage and the joy there is in seeing
cheerfulness. Advised every one to keep the
Word of Wisdom. Remarks were made by
several others, after which Pres. Mary Leaver
and Counselor Chamberlain made a few closing
remarks. Benediction
		MRS. MARY S. Leaver, Pres't.
		MISS S. A. HAWKINS, Sec'y.
		MISS LIZZIE NEEDHAM, Ass't Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		227


[For the EXPONENT.
	THE DANGER IN READING BAD
					BOOKS.

	The world is full of books, journals and news-
papers, and they are not all good. A bad book
must in the nature of things be written by a 
bad man or woman, since a good tree cannot
bring forth evil fruit: hence the time you spend
in reading bad books is so much time spent in
company with a bad character. There is a 
powerful influence for evil in reading, and it is
not so perceptible at the time, because of its
silent power. Your life and conduct will re-
flect the company you keep and the books you
read; you cannot come in contact with filth
without some of it sticking to you. It is not
the quantity of reading, but the quality that
should be considered. The reading of bad


books has done more during the last fifteen
years in our country to poison the minds of
young people, lower the standard of high moral
rectitude, and shut the heart against the Spirit
and word of God, than almost any other evil.
Go to the convict's cell and ask what kind of
books he has read; he will tell you, in nine
cases out of ten, if he has read any, that they
were bad books—tales of crime portrayed in 
glowing colors, which roused the evil passions
and unholy desires that might have lain dor-
mant in the heart. Show me the youth that
pores over tales of fiction, and I will show you
a fictitious character. Better not to read at all
than to read bad books. It is just as essential
that books and reading matter should be care-
fully chosen as the company we keep. I en-
treat you, especially young people, to shun all
books that advocate false systems of religion.
Let the Bible be your daily companion, and
make yourself familiar with such books as
have been written by the best of men. And
choose biographies of the best men who have
lived in this or other ages, and follow them as 
far as they have followed Christ.
	By reading light literature it destroys rather
than improves the mind; it does not awaken
the reflective organs, or give rise to elevating
thought. Yet this trash finds ready sale in 
our cities, while the more solid works and good
books are neglected. Our talents are not given
us for our own special use, but for each to bene-
fit the other. Then store your minds with use-
ful knowledge that will be beneficial to society.
There is more glory in mounting the hill of
science through our own perseverance, than if
we had thousands of help. Knowledge is
boundless, and if we study a lifetime with the
greatest zeal we could not say "I have learned
all and am perfect."
	How often has the world been benefitted by
the ideas of one person. For instance, the in-
ventive man, by the aid of labor and close ap-
plication to study, wins for himself a name
that will ever be respected. Observe these
things, and every experience will be to us
means of advancement. In the business of
life there is satisfaction in conquering difficul-
ties.
	I am so much interested for the young peo-
ple, I am desirous of warning them against
the coming of those who are trying to deceive
them and lead them from the truth.
	MARY JANE CROSBY.
East Bountiful, Feb. 7, 1879.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	DIED, of diphtheria, Feb. 8, in Bellevue, Kane
County, Jeremiah Johnson, aged four years
and ten months. We deeply sympathize with
Brother and Sister Johnson in the death of this
little boy, and can only say to them, as we were
compelled to acknowledge in our own sore be-
reavement, "God knoweth best."

	DIED, in Snowville, Box Elder Co, Sister
Mary B. Potter. She was baptized in Leices-
ter, England, in 1843; emigrated to Utah in
1863; was married to Richard Potter, Dec. 1,
1866, and departed this life July 28, aged 73
years, 3 months, and 20 days. She lived and
died a faithful Latter-day Saint.

	SAD DEATH—In Harrisburg, Washington
Co., April 4, Samuel Russel, infant son of Re-
vi[-]o and Mary D. Fuller, was drowned in their
own well on the corner of their lot. When
they found him they thought perhaps he might
be resuscitated, but all their exertions proved
unavailing. The child's age was one year and
ten months. We sympathize with the bereaved
parents; only God can comfort those so sorely
bereft.


DIED in Virgin City, Kane County, Utah,
in child birth, Betsy Christena Jenson, born at
Fulster, Denmark, January 13th, 1844. Emi-
grated to Utah in 1854. She was married to
Charles Burke in 1859, and was the mother of
nine children, died March 18th, 1879. Her hus-
band was called to Dixie in the year 1861, and
they have lived there ever since. She was a
faithful member of the Relief Society from its
organization, and was ever ready and willing
to impart to those who needed assistance. She
was an honored and loving wife, a kind and
gentle mother, and always gave good counsel
to her family and friends, who now deeply feel
her loss. Although they feel an assurance
that their loss is her gain. We feel a deep sym-
pathy for the bereaved husband and motherless
children, and her aged mother and step-father
who have been called to part with an affec-
tionate daughter. Her funeral was large for a
small settlement; thirteen vehicles formed the
procession that followed her remains to the
grave. Our whole community mourn her loss,
we feel to say she filled a mission of usefulness,
and has gone to receive her reward with the
faithful in Christ Jesus.
	E. PARKER and E. D. GARDNER.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of deep regret we record
the demise of one of our beloved sisters, Isa-
bella Catherine Maxwell, daughter of Ralph
and Isabella Maxwell of Peoa, Summit Co.
Deceased was born Jan. 4, 1864; she departed
this life Feb. 11, 1879, aged fifteen years, one
month and seven days. After great and con-
tinued suffering she at last quietly fell asleep.
She has left loving and affectionate parents
and friends to mourn her loss, and while we
sympathize with the bereaved family and feel
the loss of our dear sister, we can look forward
to the day when the faithful dead shall hear
the angel's trump, and rise to shine as the sun
forever. We do not mourn as those without
hope. No, my sisters. Let us prepare our-
selves while here on earth to dwell with our
Father in heaven. Our dear sister whose death
we record was a member of the Y. L. M. I. As-
sociatiation in Peoa; she was ever anxious to
do good, and she was loved and respected by
all who knew her.—Com.


HOTEL RATES, ST. LOUIS.—LETTER
FROM MRS. MINOR.

DEAR MRS. GAGE:
	The Indianapolis & St. Louis R. R. say from
stations on their lines will give return tickets
to those attending the N. S. Convention, if ap-
plied for at Office in St. Louis.
	Illinois & St. Louis R. R. give return tickets.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis return to Alton
only. Others not heard from.
	"Missouri roads refuse because the Legisla-
ture fixed their rates." As we are not repre-
sented in the Legislature it is perfectly proper
that we should be punished for its actions.
Hotel Barnum, on the European plan, situ-
ated corner 6th and Washington avenue, 3
squares from the Hall, will reduce rates for
members of the Con. This Hotel is just
opened, everything new, and the Barnum's
have had for thirty years the reputation of
keeping the best table in the city, so that who-
ever is so fortunate as to be their guest will be
sure to be well taken care of.
	The Laclide Hotel takes the delegates to the
Homoeopathic Convention for $2 per day,
meals and all, and would doubtless take our
delegates at the same price, but it is farther
from the Hall. Both of these are fine and rea-
sonable houses.—N. C. & B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	My very dear sister:—This is the first
time I have ventured to address you as an
editor, but your time is so much taken up
with public duties that it is hard to find
you at leisure for an hour; so I take this
way of claiming your attention, and to ex-
press my opinion of your late visit to Wash-
ington.
	I heard you say at one of our meetings,
that if the sisters thought you had a good
time while absent they were very much
mistaken. I for one can readily believe
you in this; to me it appears the most ardu-
ous mission any of our sisters (as yet) have
been called upon to perform. It must have
been a trial for two plural wives to meet
the talented and worthy ladies of the Con-
vention, at a time when prejudice towards
us as a people abounds to such an extent.
Even the very best of those ladies were
very careful to have it understood that their
acquaintance with the Utah ladies was all
included in Woman Suffrage. When I read
of the charitable acts and self-denial of those
honorable women, I think of the young
man whom our Savior loved; the Scripture
tells us He found him lacking in one thing
and sent him away sorrowful.
	I do not think it was any great trial for
you to meet the question of woman suffrage.
That is a national subject and pertains to 
earthly things, and there was no difficulty
you need feel or suffer on that point. But
you went to the highest court of this great
nation as a Delegate from the women of the 
Latterday Saints—as an advocate to plead
the cause of those who practise the laws
and ordinances of the Gospel, as revealed
from heaven in this our day; and the faith
and power which was exercised for you was
very great. You were answerable to God
for all your words and actions, and this I
consider the most vital subject of your mis-
sion.
	You were surrounded by the wisdom and
learning of this great nation; those who
would read your very thoughts before you
could utter them. I assure you my thoughts
were with you all the time, praying the 
Lord to give you strength and wisdom, so
you could speak by the same power as St.
Paul did when speaking before King
Agrippa.
	I have had some experience myself, from
twenty-five to thirty years ago, in England,
my native land. I was well established in 
the business of millinery and dressmaking,
before I knew of the Latter-day Saints and
for eight years after I joined them. I
worked for many highly connected ladies,
some of whom were titled. It soon became
known in the small town where I lived that
I had joined the Mormons (so called), but
my business did not suffer, it was too well
established. As a rule ladies did not con-
descend to converse with trades people, ex-
cept upon business. About that time po-
lygamy was first published; and one very
pious lady came and told me she respected
me so much that she would like to have a 
talk with me. She asked me how I could
think of leaving the pure and holy Church
that I was brought up in (meaning the
Church of England), and believing such
awful doctrines as those strange people
taught. I told her the Bible taught me to
believe in the restoration of all things, con-
sequently plural marriage was a Patriarchal
order and had to be restored, and I had
considered lately a great deal upon the de-
graded condition of my own sex, and I said
the Christain maiden (in my opinion) was
not protected half as well as the Turkish

[Column 2]
maiden, and their cries had gone up before
God and He was preparing a way of escape.
The lady then spoke of reformatory institu-
tions and societies for the amelioration of
the fallen, and told of some six different
societies that she and Sir John (her hus-
band) subscribed to. I told her I did not
think that method would ever reach the
foundation of the evil. That women, par-
ticularly the poorer class, would never prac-
tise celibacy; they must have protection.
The nature of the sex is compared to the
vine, continually reaching for support. She
got vexed and said: "Well, Mrs.—what
would you propose to do? would you rec-
ommend your husband to marry one of
these women?" I told her that would all
depend on circumstances; but I would tell
her what I was prepared to do, If she would
like to hear me. So I proceeded, and said
if I saw an innocent girl belonging to that
class in danger, I would take her to my
home, and by love and kindness win her
over to better ways; and, eventually, if it
was agreeable to my husband and the girl,
would give my consent to their marriage;
and if my husband is a man of God, he
would love me all the more for the sacri-
fice. And if all honorable women would
act on this plan there would soon be a great
revolution. The lady arose and said, "I
thought I was a great and good philanthro-
pist, but I could not do that.
							E. L. H.
	Salt Lake City, April 3, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Dear Sister:—I have received several
specimens of insects which infest the wheat
and wheat flour in this vicinity, from Bro.
S. I. Sudbury of the Empire Flour Mill.
That gentleman has imparted much infor-
mation to me, which would probably be
new to many of your readers, for which
reason I lay before you the result of his ob-
servations, and those of entomologists who 
have paid attention to this branch of natural
history.
	It is found that for preserving grain from
the ravages of weevil and other insect pests,
it is necessary to have sound bins placed in
well ventilated stone rooms; that where
grain has become infected, kiln drying
must be resorted to, at a temperature not
higher than 167° Fahrenheit, for twelve
hours; or, the grain may be fumigated in 
close vessels by charcoal gas. This last
method appears to me to be less practical
and more dangerous than drying in ovens,
or kilns. The rationale of either process is
to deprive the grain of moisture, which
favors heating and the development of in-
sect life. Brother Sudbury's mode of effect-
ing this condition appears to be based upon
very reasonable conclusions, and has the
merit of having been practically tested by
him. He uses very fine, dry, air-slacked
lime, which is well mixed with the grain,
in the proportion of two bushels to the 
thousand bushels. In practice this has been
found to answer, even with "smutty"
wheat, from which the lime is readily sepa-
rated by putting it through the smut ma-
chine. It seems that "the grain is made
brighter" in appearance, and entirely free
from everything objectionable, if indeed
lime can be considered so, which I very much
doubt, it being in such infinitesmal quanti-
ties. Of the great importance of well sea-
soned and tight bins, as well as good venti-
lation, there can be no doubt, as insects get
through very small crevices. Besides this,
such places are resorted to by the parents
to deposit their eggs. For this reason open
granaries have been found preferable to de-

[Column 3]
fective bins, as the grain can be seen, turned
over and ventilated. I have had flour on 
exhibition which had been "cached" for
several years in dry situations, and there
has been no sign of insect life. But as soon
as it has been brought to this city and ex-
posed, even in cabinets, life has been devel-
oped. The danger that besets flour is the 
result of lack of care among some people,
for which their neighbors have to suffer.
Careful watching and cleansing, with ven-
tilation, are the safeguards against destruc-
tive insects; darkness, damp and dirt are
the sources of evil in the granaries and
flour bins as they favor development of de-
graded life forms. This reasoning applies
to moths, beetles and other vermin affect-
ing grain, corn, peas, beans, rice and other
articles of food. Should it not be trespass-
ing on your space, I may again address you
on this subject, and show some of the
modes of distinguishing between our 
friends and foes in the insect world.
	With great respect,
		Yours very fraternally,
					JOSEPH BARFOOT,
	Museum, Salt Lake City, April 2, 1879.


REFLECTIONS.

	A few reflections have passed through
my mind while reading the travels of our
worthy sisters, yourself and Mrs. Williams,
your doings and your reception, both at
Washington and elsewhere, in the presence
of Mrs. Hayes, the President, Senators, or
Representatives of the houses of Congress,
all treating you with kindness, courtesy
and due respect. I felt while considering
this subject that man was not the only be-
ing endowed with power from on High to
go forth and battle with the enemy of all
righteousness; and I felt there must have
been legions of holy angels round about our
sisters, to ward off the powers of darkness
and open up the way before them, that they
might have access to the ruling powers of
this mighty nation and tell them the truths
of heaven. I felt that God was with our
sisters and is at the helm, and though
wicked men and women may try to do all
they can to oppose those who seek to up-
hold and sustain this work, God will say,
"Thus far shalt thou go and no further."
	It seems as though we have to pass
through a rough and thorny path, and be
tried and tempted, as Jesus, our elder
Brother, was, and Joseph, our beloved pro-
phet, in order that we may attain to the
glories of the word to come. I feel if we
will live our religion, attend to our duties
at home, get the holy influence of the
Spirit of God to be with us, we would have
access to the heavenly powers above, and
have the angels of God to aid and assist us
to battle with the power of the lower re-
gions that surround us and seek to lead
away the unwary; we should have power
to put them away from us, that they might
only associate with their own kindred spir-
its. Then we could live like the people of
Enoch, or like the Nephites on this conti-
nent when they were all converted to the
Lord—no poor or rich, no division or con-
tention, all united in the work of the Lord.
	AMY MILLER.
Fayette, March 8, 1879.


THERE is a limit to the work that can be
got out of a human body, or a human brain,
and he is a wise man who wastes no energy
on pursuits for which he is not gifted; and
he is still wiser who from among the things
that he can do well chooses and resolutely
follows the best.—W. E. Gladstone.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿MRS. STANTON'S. OPENING SPEECH
AT THE WASHINGTON CONVEN-
TION.

	For eleven consecutive years, women
citizens of the United States have assem-
bled here in Washington, to ask that the
principles of our government be carried to
their logical results, making women equal
with men before the law. And we have
asked this not only for the protection of
one-half the people of this nation, but for
the safety of the nation itself, for every
violation of a great principle is sure to be
followed by its penalty. Our fathers de-
clared the equality of the human family,
but by their laws enslaved the African race,
and all women. But the experiment of
limiting universal principles to a favored
few is ever fraught with danger; liberty
for white men only convulsed the nation
for half a century; and mid the thundering
cannon of a civil war the requiem of slavery
was chanted round the world. Out of this
baptism of blood, statesmen with clearer
moral vision saw for a time a new signifi-
cance in the words, justice, liberty and
equality, and in the 13th, 14th and 15th
amendments declared the status of an
American citizen, and the rights, privileges
and immunities involved in citizenship.
When learned judges, lawyers and philoso-
phers, gave it as their opinion that woman
too was enfranchised by the 14th amend-
ment, with new hope we pondered the con-
stitution of our country, and felt that at
last it was indeed the Magna Charta of our
rights.
	With kindling interest we listened to the
eloquence of leading statesmen in their
paeans to liberty, and words cannot describe
the joy that filled our hearts. To realize at
last the hopes so long deferred was happi-
ness such as they only who have belonged
to a disfranchised class can understand.
	To make assurance doubly sure, women
in many States tested their new found
rights, at college doors, in the courts, at the
ballot-box. Some asked the right to prac-
tice law, and were denied; some voted and
were arrested; some tested their civil and 
political rights in the Supreme Courts of
the United States, and thousands petitioned
Congress to declare that women were en-
franchised under the 14th amendment, but
they prayed and petitioned in vain. Though
every great principle involved in the
amendments, and all the thrilling debates
of the republican party since the war, have
been freighted with new hopes of freedom
for all citizens, yet no sooner have the
pleading voices and glowing periods of these
statesmen died away, than woman learned
that they had no significance for her. The
Supreme Court of the United States and
Congress in their decisions and arguments
on the constitutional rights of woman, have
alike stultified themselves and falsified both
the letter and spirit of these amendments,
in making them a protection for one class
of citizens and a new denial of political
freedom for another. We prophesied on
this platform, years ago, that this violation
of principle and the spirit of the amend-
ments, the illogical decisions in our courts
and the frivolous arguments in Congress on
the constitutional rights of woman, must
blunt the moral sense of the whole nation
and ultimately imperil the liberties of the
colored voters of the South; and our pro-
phesies are fulfilled, President Hayes in his
last message complaining that the spirit of
these amendments have not been faithfully
fulfilled by the Southern States; and for the
best of reasons they have never been ful-

[Column 2]

filled by those who first pressed them on
the nation's heart.
	The South in the reorganizing of its po-
litical parties, is simply adopting the tactics
of Northern politicians. Northern carpet-
baggers, so-called, "bull-dozed" the colored
men into voting the republican ticket in
1872, and Southern politicians "bull-dozed"
the same class into voting the democratic
ticket in 1878.
	In neither case have the purity of the
ballot box, nor the sacredness of the elec-
tions, nor the best interests of the colored
voters themselves been protected. It is one
thing to utter high-sounding principles and
quite another to carry them into practice. I
would recommend that the large appropri-
ations made annually to the department of
justice, should hereafter be applied to the
education of our rulers into a knowledge of
what justice is.
	"President Hayes says in his message
that all over our wide territory in the near
future, the name and character of citizen of
the United States shall mean one and the
same thing and carry with them unchal-
lenged security and respect."
	And yet where do we see any preparation
among our rulers for the security and re-
spect of the rights of women even in the
District of Columbia, under the very shad-
ow of the Capitol. Here in 1871, the first
time the District had a republican form of
government, a legislative assembly, 72 wo-
men marched to the city Hall and asked to
register their names as qualified voters.
This experiment of government in the Dis-
trict was made to swell republican power,
by a solid colored vote. Intelligent Ameri-
can women were crowded aside by burly
African men, who could neither read nor 
write. Yet President Grant, who main-
tained the rights of freedmen in Louisiana,
at the point of the bayonet, never gave a
thought to the disfranchised women of the
District. And yet there were 7,000 more
women than men in the District at that
time; industrious, tax-paying, law-abiding
citizens, who neither kept nor haunted the
dram shops nor gambling saloons. A large
part of the taxes paid for the support of
the Police force, criminal and civil courts,
station houses, alms house and jail come out
of the hard earnings of women, and yet if
a little vagrant, harmless, hungry girl steals
a loaf of bread, a doll, or a pocket handker-
chief, the jail filled with hardened crimi-
nals is the only place the District provides
for her reformation, while a reform school
for boys received an appropriation of $100,-
000 and $35,000 a year for its support. And
yet in view of all these outrages on women
and girls, President Hayes in his recent
message gives them no thought, though he
makes a truly paternal review of the interests
of this republic, great and small, from the
army, the navy and our foreign relations,
to the timber on the western mountains,
the switches of the Washington railroad
and the education of the fifty little Indians
in Hampton, Virginia—from the Postal
service, the Paris exposition, the abundant
harvests and the possible bulldozing of
some colored men in the various southern
districts, to cruelty to live animals and the
crowded condition of the mummies and
dead ducks in the Smithsonian Institute,
and yet he forgets to mention 20,000,000
women citizens, robbed of their social, civil
and political rights.
	Hon. James G. Blaine, in his speech in-
dicting the Southern democracy, enlarges
on the injustice of their treatment of col-
ored voters, and makes a strong point on
that section of the 14th amendment, which
says if colored male citizens are not per-

[Column 3]

mitted to vote, neither shall they be count-
ed in the basis of representation. The
Senator considers it the height of injustice
to count citizens in the basis of representa-
tion when not allowed to vote, and thus
compel them to swell the number of their
tyrants. He says:
	"The colored citizen is thus most unhap-
pily situated; his right of suffrage is but a
hollow mockery; it holds to his ear the word
of promise, but breaks it always to his
hope, and he ends only in being made the
unwilling instrument of increasing the po-
litical strength of that party from which he
received ever-tightening fetters when he
was a slave and contemptuous refusal of
civil rights since he was made free. He
resembles, indeed, those unhappy captives,
in the East, who, deprived of their birth-
right, are compelled to yield their strength
to the upbuilding of the monarch from
whose tyrannies they have most to fear,
and to fight against the power from which
alone deliverance might be expected. The
franchise intended for the shield and de-
fense of the negro has been turned against
him and against his friends, and has vastly
increased the power of those from whom
he has nothing to hope and everything to
dread."
	But we need not go to Louisiana or South
Carolina to find such injustice. The women
of Maine, New England, the Western,
Southern and Middle States are all counted
in the basis of representation. Com-
pelled to send hundreds of men to Congress
who care nothing for their rights and inter-
ests, who wholly misrepresent them, and 
yet not one of all these has the right to
vote. The Senator further says: "The war,
with all its costly sacrifices, was fought in 
vain, unless equal rights for all classes
be established in all the States of the
Union." I wonder as he uttered that sen-
timent if the faintest shadow of a woman
fell aslant his brain.
	It is a sad reflection that all these glowing
sentiments of justice, liberty and equality
that have thrilled the hearts of the Ameri-
can people for the last quarter of a century,
should now have no meaning—be but hol-
low mockery, naught but the stock in trade
of clap trap politlcians. We on this plat-
form agree with Mr. Blaine, "that the war
with all its costly sacrifices was fought in
vain, unless equal rights for all classes be
established in all the States of the Union,"
North as well as South. And to this end, I
would recommend the Senator to begin his
work in Maine. There is a large class of 
citizens, intelligent, refined, virtuous,
whose moral power we need to have repre-
sented in the government, not only for the
nation's safety, but for the more complete
development of that class itself in political,
religious, and social ideas. As a question
of civilization, the enfranchisement of wo-
man is of more vital importance than that
of all other classes put together, as her en-
lightened influence would do for politics
and religion what her higher education in
the domestic arts has already done for social
life. There is more buried wealth in the 
minds of the women in Maine than in all
the lumber and fisheries that State can
boast. And yet this large class, represent-
ing so much intelligence, wealth and latent
power, claims no political consideration from
its great Senator.
	In less than sixty days the 45th Congress
will have passed into history. What shall
we find on its pages concerning women?
That to forty thousand citizens of the
United States, filling every department of
art, science and literature, teachers, minis-
ters, lawyers, "the cream of the philan-


thropy and intelligence of the country," as
senators said upon the floor, in presenting
to this Congress the petitions asking for a 
constitutional amendment protecting wo-
men citizens in their right to vote:—that
the Senate Committee on Privileges and
Elections gave three minutes to these peti-
tioners, to the final decision of this vital
question; three minutes! at the close of the
session, and at the close of the day, in the
twilight hour, when even bats and owls
begin to see clearly and to roam forth on
their nightly haunts, and after this three
minutes of consideration, two of which
might have been consumed in the roll call,
and the third in awaiting the arrival of the
tardy chairman, this committee of the
[-]ighest legislative body in the land, voted
down the woman suffrage resolution 6 to 3.
They who voted in favor of the 16th amend-
ment are Senators Hoar, Mass.; Mitchell,
Oregon; Cameron, Wis.; Nays, Wadleigh,
N. H.; McMillan, Minn.; Saulsbury, Del.;
Merrimon, S. C.; Hill, Ga.; Ingalls, Kansas.
	In the other House the Judiciary Com-
mittee were promptly in their seats. Five
members of this committee, Lapham, of
N. Y., Lynde, of Wis., Frye, of Me., But-
ler, Mass., Conger, Mich., eminent Judges,
able Lawyers and honored Statesmen rose
early in the morning, Feb. 5, 1878, to vote
Yes on the constitutional amendment for
women. Five more rose early in the morn-
ing of the same day, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMalion, O.:
Culberson, Texas, to vote No on the rights
of women. The eleventh Hon. gentleman,
Harris, of Virginia, for some reason, did
not rise that eventful morning, and there
our question lies waiting for him to get up
and make his toilet. In both Houses,
therefore, our question is pending. In the
Senate upon the calendar, waiting for some
brave man to call it up and force it before
that body for debate and action. In the
House our question rests on that tie vote.
	The days are rapidly passing, and what
shall be the record on this question of the
statesmen of the 45th Congress. In each
of these Houses are men of sterling integ-
rity, who have served the men of their
States faithfully and well. Yet these men
have deserted them and turned their alle-
giance to new heroes lifted out of obscurity
by the last election. To these men elected
to retirement we appeal. You are writing
many of you the last chapter of your public
career. What page shall the mothers and
daughters of this republic find therein, to
which they can proudly point and say:
"This was for us." As the years roll on
and bring to us victory at last, the men who
have helped to fight our battle will be proud
of their old time loyalty to woman, and
their courage in facing a false and wicked
public sentiment, to so amend their laws
and constitutions as to make all citizens
equal before the law. The air of Washing-
ton is heavy with the wrecked hopes of
disappointed statesmen, of those who led
by personal ambition and party allegiance,
have sacrificed principle to expediency.
They only hold a place in the hearts of the
people, they only are immortal who live not
for themselves alone, but for all humanity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SOIL others is no way to make our-
selves clean.—Tennyson.
	HE that believes without having any
reason for believing may be in love with
his own fancies, but neither seeks truth as
he ought, nor pays the obedience to his
Maker, who would have him use those dis-
cerning faculties he has given him to keep
him out of mistake and crime.—John L[-]oke.


[For the EXPONENT.
		AN OPEN LETTER.

	When duty and pleasure unite we feel
happy, as I do at this moment in offering
the gratitude of my heart to my friends,
whose name is Legion, for their prompt
and unbounded liberality in patronizing my
little pamphlet, "Women of the Scrip-
tures," 2000 copies of which have been
sold, by the unsleeping exertions of my
friends, in about seven months. The print-
ing cost me sixty dollars, which I paid in
a little over two months. A favorite axi-
om of one of our home missionaries is,
"action tells the tale!" and my friends have
demonstrated it to a charm, Mrs. E. B.
Wells heading the list, and "tis written
where every day I turn the leaf to read it."
				HANNAH T. KING.


THE rather startling announcement was
made the other day by the President of the
Women's Protective Association of New
York, that there are in the city over 100,000
women doing work outside of the family
at an average of $2 a week.
	Remember that this $2 covers the ex-
pense of food, clothing, car-fare and amuse-
ments. Is it a matter of surprise that the
feet of so many women are in the path
that leads to death? The question of wa-
ges for woman and virtue in our land, are
synonomous ones.—Ex.


As long as each day comes singly, each
freighted with its own load only, people
can bear a great deal.—Rhode Broughton.

	THE Princess Louise may be seen almost
every afternoon on the reserved bench to
the right of the Speaker, listening attent-
ively to the debates on the new tariff.—Ex.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each.
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents ea[-]h
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to 
		MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
					Salt Lake Ciiy.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
