VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. JUNE 15, 1878.	NO. 2.


[For the EXPONENT.
THE WORSHIPER.

Into the house of worship came
	The earnest, crowding throng,
The gentle girl, the aged dame;
	Through prayer, and praise and sacred song,
To learn the path that led above
	Earth's vales and wilds of wrong.

While prayer, full-toned, sweet, clear and high,
	And worship-hymn like incense rolled;
A stranger, half as one in fear,
	To vacant seat before me stole,
Like one apart from all commune
	Save with her secret soul.

Her garments worn with studious care,
	(The fashion of long years gone by;)
The straying locks of once bright hair,
	The pallid cheek, the drooping eye;
The prayer-bent head, the shrinking form,
	Might wake a pitying sigh.

Yet, e'en as once in Eden dwelt,
	One spirit dark, whose trail was blight,
There where truth's seekers humbly knelt,
	Vain worldlings at the saddening sight;
Blushless within the sacred place,
	Their fine derision dealt.

Ah! how my soul within me burned
	To shield the helpless from their sting,
When once her thin pale face she turned;
	Then shrank like some poor hunted thing
Too weak and wounded to take flight
	Though shouts around her ring.

Ah! what hath been thy woe, poor heart,
	What history of wrong and pain,
Lie hid from reason's reach and smart,
	And but the sealed lids remain;
Save one stray leaf thou connest o'er,
Thy heavenly home to gain.

When low upon her dying bed
	The lonely worshiper was found;
Few friends kind ministrations fed,
	Few mourners stood her grave around;
And the sealed lips their secret kept
	Within them 'neath the mound.

Then the bright angel lifting forth,
	The poor clay from the trampled sod;
Found, 'neath cankering dross of earth,
	(Where wordly feet indifferent trod)
Dim with tear-rust, a jewel bright,
	Worthy the praise of God.

Blessed thou art, the Master said;
	Because when worldlings sought not me,
Though with my richest bounties fed;
	Thou in thy depths of misery,
Friendless, distraught, one bright thought kept
	And loved, and worshiped me.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, May 18th, 1878.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
HINTS TO MOTHERS.

	Since reading the article in the EXPO-
NENT entitled "Education and Culture of
Women," I have felt like saying something
to mothers in regard to training their boys.
I have visited some of the Conjoint Im-
provement Meetings, and I think the girls
take more interest, advance more rapidly,
attend more regularly, and are more atten-
tive to instructions than the boys are.
	I have also noticed in many families that
parents do not seem to think their boys
need any education, or refinement; they
have no books or papers provided for them,
from which they might gain knowledge,
and appear only to wish them to know how
to work. When they come in at evening,
after their day's work is done, instead of
having the Bible, Book of Mormon, or

[Column 2]

some other good work for them to read,
they find employment for their minds and
hands by playing cards for pastime, or any
frivolous game for amusement; thus their
education is neglected, and their minds al-
lowed to go to waste; and I fear that this
is not all they lack, but that the parents
allow their boys to grow up without teach-
ing them to pray, or ask a blessing upon
their food, or to acknowledge in any way
the power of God.
	And how sadly are their manners neg-
lected also! They will go to an evening
party, or meeting, many of them, with
their hair uncombed, wearing their dirty
overalls, without coats, and their breath
smelling horribly of whiskey and tobacco.
And yet they think they are worthy of our
pure, refined, cultured girls, and expect to
marry them and make them happy. But
alas! how can a woman be happy with a
man who has no idea in common with her;
one who has never read anything to im-
prove his mind, or studied refinement, or
elevation, or sought for spiritual knowledge,
as she has?
	O, sisters! let us try to take more pains
with our children, and have books and
amusements ready for them, so that they
may remain at home, contented and happy,
and not have any excuse to go to saloons,
or billiard halls, for enjoyment. Let us be-
gin while they are young to teach them to
pray and sing, to attend meetings for spir-
itual culture, and put their trust in God; to
cultivate their minds and manners, and be-
come intelligent; for surely, as God himself
is an intelligent Being, He will desire us to
be so, and will help all who seek to attain
to excellence. Let us, also, strive to im-
prove ourselves, that we may know how to
instil into the minds of our little ones such
things as will benefit them here and here-
after.
	I have no boys of my own, but I have a
great desire to say or do something to im-
prove the condition of our boys in Zion,
so I have addressed a few ideas to mothers,
thinking perhaps I may awaken some of
them to a knowledge of the importance of
their duties, and thus benefit the sons; and
if they will learn to spend their money for
good books, instead of whiskey and tobac-
co, and instead of their evil habits form
good ones, I am sure it will bring its own 
reward.	GIPSY GOLDEN.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE THIRTIETH Anniversary of the
Second Woman's Rights Convention the
world ever knew, will be celebrated by a
Convention in Corinthian Hall, Rochester,
N. Y., July 19th, 1878. The first one was
held in Akron, Ohio, the year before, by
Mrs. Frances D. Gage and other Western
women. This second one met July 19, in
a church in Seneca Falls, N. Y., then the
home of Mrs. Stanton, and adjourned to
meet August 1, at Rochester. It is emi-
nently fitting that the thirtieth anniversary
should be held in this latter city. Some
who took part in the Convention have
passed on, but many others, including both
Mrs. Mott and Mrs. Stanton, its callers, are
still living. This Convention will take the

[Column 2]

place of the usual May anniversary, and
will be largely devoted to reminiscences.
Friends are cordially invited to be present,
especially the pioneers in the reform.
	WILLIAM CULLEN Bryant, the poet, au-
thor, editor, philosopher and statesman
died at his residence in New York City on
Wednesday, June 12, at 5 25 a.m. Amer-
ica may well be proud of so good and great
and wise man. Bryant was born at Cum-
mington, Mass., Nov 3, 1794. At the early
age of ten years he commenced his literary
career, displaying wonderful genius in
writing and translating, and as he grew
older became eminent not only for his ver-
satile learning and talent but his great prac-
tical abilities, combined with a nature so
genial and tender that he attracted all
hearts to him, thereby wielding a more
powerful influence. His works are numer-
ous and widely celebrated. His popular-
ity as an author and scholar has been
known for at least three score years and ten.
Mr. Bryant had enjoyed excellent health up
to the time of his illness two weeks pre-
vious to his death. Mr. Bryant had travel-
ed extensively in foreign countries and had
wonderful powers of description. In one
of his poems called "June," he most exquis-
itely expresses a fervent wish to die in that
beautiful month. 
	THE NEW England Woman's Subscrip-
tion Festival which is held yearly took
place Wednesday evening May 29th, in Hor-
ticultural Hall, Boston, Mass., Mr. William
I. Bowditch made the opening address. His
speech was principally upon the Suffrage
for women, taxation without representa-
tion, etc. Many statistical facts were
brought forward by him to prove how in-
complete and cruel had been the laws of
the past and that all was not yet accom-
plished that ought to be to improve the
condition of the people. Mr. B. said J.
Story taught us that "Law is a progressive
science," etc. Wendell Phillips was the
next speaker, in his address which was
powerful and eloquent, he said he fancied
one reason why the public took so little in-
terest in Woman's Suffrage was because so
little money was put into it. People said:
"You are a woman's suffrage man, how
much have you done for woman's suffrage?"
That was their only thermometer; he re-
ferred to the money subject as a necessity
to success; said there were only two tests
which people applied to determine the
merit and probable success of every cause.
The one was money the other was votes.
Miss Mary F. Eastmam, Rev. Mr. Cal-
thrope, and Miss Abby W. May, each ad-
dressed the audience in a similar strain.
There were many excellent things said by
these ladies and gentlemen, and the spirit
manifested is one that will not be rebuffed
or discouraged but persistent and earnest,
and full of strength and determination.


MME. Strauss, wife, of the great compos-
er Johann Strauss, is dead. She was best
known in musical circles as Jetty Taffa. It
is thought her death may interfere with the
great composer and his orchestra going to
Paris, to the Exposition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<ganied feb="" 1g,.187g,.="" under="" the="" direction="" of="" mrs.="" m<.11.="" horne,="" with="" following="" oflicera:="" a.="" v.h="" -hetty="" duiin,="" president,-="" ;!="" '="" -="" ’="" counselors.="" i11="" ‘u.="" emma="" thorniek,="" mary="" jane="" bee,="" clara="" walked,‘m="" harriet="" thompson,="" christine="" jacobsotf,="" patterson="" -:="" josephine="" hart,="" seerotary,="" e="" --'="" elizabeth="" assistant="" secretary.="" :="" vo="" hold="" our="" meetings="" once="" in="" twp="" weeks.="" exercises="" consist="" select="" rehdings="" from="" (church="" works="" arid="" other="" ,="" good="" books.="" association="" numbers="" in,="" all="" seventy-two="" members,="" mostly="" small="" girls.="" we="" held="" pur="" first="" anniversary="" feb.="" 1g,‘at="" 1="" o’clock="" p!="" !ra.="" bishop="" w.m',="" hblmes="" and="" some="" brethren="" were="" present="" gave="" us="" instructions.="" iri.="" evening="" young="" ladies="" an="" entertainment,="" ykich="" consisted="" songsf="" .and="" recitations;="" y.="" m.="" i.="" assisted="" young'="" la-="" dies;="" performance="" was="" a="" credit="" tq="" those="" who="" aided="" ,the="" entertainment.="" wo="" want="" as="" soon="" it="" is="" practicable="" to="" make="" own.="" liais="" bonnets.'="" spirit="" improvement="" manifested="" among="" youug="" peoplo="" to’="" grqrit="" degree,="" they="" s'eem="" desirous="" carryout="" counsel="" vcind="" instruction="" of-="" beloygd;="" president,="" brigham="" young,="" .in,all="" fespect8.'‘="" sincere="" desire="" for="" prosperity="" zion.="" “.="" ”="" "="" your="" .sisters,="" &c="" .="" ‘="" h="" hettydunn,="" secretary.,="" east="" mill="" creek="" ward,="" may="" 22,="" 1878.="" editor="" exponent:="" feelings="" pleasurable="" emotion="" i="" now="" eeiid="" ybu="" '.report-="" society.="" heartfelt="" thariks="" giver="" that="" he’has="" so="" blessfed="" our-efforts="" can="" give="" favorable="" ah="" account="" labors="" relief="" shoiild="" long="" ago="" have="" sent="" it,="" according="" to-the="" promise="" made="" at="" memorial="" visit="" your-="" self,sister="" snow,mrs.m.i.horno,mrs.wood.="" ruff="" howard;="" but="" multiplicity="" cares="" inoldentto="" daily="" life="" wife="" mother,="" must="" be="" apology="" not="" doing="" before;="" will="" fry="" do="" better="" future.="" organized="" dec.="" 13th’,="" 1876="" by="" miss="" eliza="" r.="" snow,="" un.="" dor="" th’e="" sanction="" -w.="" g.="" yitli-the="" officers:-’="" -v.-="" ilii.="" e.="" neff,="" president="" m.m.="" noff,="" b.="" moses,="" treasurer.="" reorganization="" thoro="" no="" cliango="" in-ofiicors.="" excellent="" meetings,="" semi-monthly.="" attends="" frequentlyand="" his="" wise="" counsels="" well="" pleasant="" affablo'="" manner,="" shows="" rest="" ward="" are="" objects="" care="" solicitude.="" peace,="" love="" unity="" dwell-in="" midst;="" overy="" member="" seems="" awake="" her="" duties="" quite="" ready="" respond-="" any="" ‘call.="" worthy="" ablb="" counselors="" prompt="" their="" so-="" ciety="" feel,="" listening-fo="" counsel,="" blessed="" prospered.="" financial="" report="" isasfouows="" 13th,="" 1877,.="" -rdaiiw-jui’s="" cach="" donated="" temple..%v?.ri:..="" $17,75="" disbursed="" barao...‘.v...llk...="" 14,80="" donations="" i-cceived="" general="" pur.="" ijoses.......j...t.....="" 94,67="" paid="" wheat.........y..t.‘....="" 45,20="" benefit="" society="" ...="" 80,10="" romainthg="" society,="" iri="" goods,="" carpets,="" etci.v.l.......’..11,00="" cash="" lumbet="" wheat="" bin...........................="" 1g,00="" one="" thousand="" shingles..........="" 4,00="" nails="" bin.....................2,00="" banrier,="" c.="" 8.="" s.12,35="" stock="" big="" cottonwood="" co-op...="" 25,00="" meankdbhatpd="" for;="" house.....................="" 128,40="" goods="" work="" done="" temple....,..,............="" g,00="" on="" hand.................85="" hu.="" praying.for="" richest="" heaven’s="" bless-="" ings="" attend="" you,="" wearo="" most="" respectfully="" yours,="" nefp="" pres’t.="" .-="" ,’f.="" sec’y.="" i...="" i-i;="">		      R. S. REPORTS.

   The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
June 8. 1878, was very well attended; Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding; her Counselors E.
R. Snow, Zina D. Young, S. M. Kimball
and P. Woodruff were also on the stand.
After the usual exercises and the reading
of minutes from several Young Ladies' As-
sociations, the President M. I. Horne, gave
a synopsis of her visit to Bear Lake Valley,
and the enjoyment she had in visiting the
Societies in that vicinity. Counselor E.
R. Snow made some remarks in which she
exhorted the mothers to use their influ-
ence with the young people against night
excursions and evening parties to public
grounds or gardens. Parents do not forsee
the consequences of these pleasure parties.
We like to have our young people enjoy
themselves together, but there is an influ-
ence abroad whose tendency is to destroy,
and if we are stupid and thoughtless in re-
gard to the youth, the Lord will hold us
responsible for a great many evils. Young
ladies can have a great deal of influence
over young men if they will use it in the
right direction, and mothers should use
their influence with their sons and daugh-
ters. The powers of darkness are so on
the alert that we need to be wise and care-
ful, for we are called to save souls as well
as the brethren. Mrs. Ann Bickington;
President of Lynne and Marriott express-
ed herself pleased to meet with the sisters
in the general meetings, and realized the
great work that the sisters were doing.
Counselor Zina D. Young made some re-
marks and spoke in strong terms against
night excursions. Counselor S. M. Kim-
ball in her remarks referred to having visi-
ted some of the dens of iniquity in other
cities when she had heard the erring wail
over their condition and it had taught her
sympathy for the repentant and sorrowing,
and she felt the mission of assisting in re-
form was the noblest one women could
have. Counselor Phebe Woodruff said she
felt the meeting was a feast, she had not
heard anything save what was profitable
and good; wished our youth could see the
necessity of carrying out the counself of the
authorities of the church. We mothers
should guard and watch ourselves and set
a good example and teach them correct
principles, said many other good things. 
Mrs. E. S. Taylor made a few remarks al-
luded to night excursions, said if only the
pure and good went to those places they
would be enjoyable, but it was not so, the
company was mixed and we should use our
utmost influence against all such amuse-
ments. Teach the young people good prin-
ciples at home and in their meetings, and
do all in our power to restrain them from
evil.

			CHARLESTON, WASATCH Co.,
					May 23rd, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
    The Relief Society of this place is in
working order, with twenty-six members.
The Society was organized in Dec., 1870,
and reorganized Feb. 4, 1878, by Bishop	
N. C. Murdock and his Counselors, C. Rich-
ens and E. Buys. Having no place of our
own to meet in, we hold our meetings in
the Charleston Meeting House once a 
month, and considering our scattered con-
dition, the meetings are well attended.
We remember the poor and administer to
their necessities as occasion requires, and
we enjoy the Spirit of God. We have a
Y. L. M. I. A., which is in good working
order, and will result in a great amount of
good to the Daughters of Zion, who will
improve the opportunities given them in
the Association. We are trying to carry
out the counsel given by our late beloved
President, Brigham Young, in storing up
grain. The following is the Financial Re-
port of the Relief Society:
Donations received.........................$ 135. 63
Profit on quilts...................................	 20. 29
Dividend............................................ 	41. 14
Disbursed to the poor..................... 	14. 90
To Charleston Meeting House......... 	67. 73
To Silk Association............................ 	10. 00
For wheat........................................... 	70. 00
Amount in Treasury..........................	 34. 00
			Emma Brown, President,
			M. Murdock, } Counselors,
			Mary Dayball,
			Sina Brown, } Secretaries,
			Emma Trolman,
			Agnes McGee, Treasurer.

     BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, March 25, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association was organized Feb. 16, 1876,
under the direction of Mrs. M. I. Horne,
with the following officers:
	Hetty Dunn, President,
	Emma Thornick, } Counselors.
	Mary Jane Bee,
	Clara Walker,
	Harriet Thompson,
	Christine Jacobson,
	Mary Patterson
	Josephine Hart, Secretary,
	Elizabeth Hart, Assistant Secretary.
   We hold our meetings once in two weeks.
Our exercises consist of select readings
from the Church works and other good
books. Our Association numbers in all
seventy-two members, mostly small girls.
We held our first anniversary Feb. 16, at 1
o'clock p.m. Bishop Wm Holmes and
some other brethren were present and gave
us some good instructions. In the evening
the young ladies gave an entertainment,
which consisted of songs and recitations;
the Y. M. M. I. A. assisted the young la-
dies; the performance was a credit to those
who aided in the entertainment. We want
as soon as it is practicable to make our own
hats and bonnets.
	The spirit of improvement is manifested
among our young people to a great degree,
and they seem desirous to carry out the
counsel and instruction of our beloved
President, Brigham Young, in all respects.
Our sincere desire is for the prosperity of
Zion.
		Your Sisters, &c
				HETTY DUNN, President,
				JOSEPHINE HART, Secretary.

	EAST MILL CREEK WARD, May 22, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of pleasurable emotion
I now send you a report of our society.
With heartfelt thanks to the Giver of all
good that He has so blessed our efforts that
we can give so favorable an account of our
labors as a Relief Society. We should
long ago have sent it, according to the
promise made at the memorial visit of your-
self, Sister Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Wood-
ruff and Mrs. Howard; but the multiplicty
of cares incident to the daily life of a wife
and mother, must be our apology for not
doing so before; we will try and do better
in the future. We were first organized
Dec. 13th, 1876 by Miss Eliza R. Snow, un-
der the sanction of Bishop W. G. Young,
with the following officers:
	A. E. Neff, President,
	Lydai Orguthorpe, } Counselors.
	Sarah Skidmore,
	F. M. Neff, } Secretaries.
	M. M. Neff,
	B. M. Moses, Treasurer.
	In our reorganization there was no change
in officers. We have excellent meetings,
held semi-monthly. Our Bishop attends
frequently, and by his wise counsels as well
as pleasant and affable manner, shows that
we as well as the rest of the ward are the
objects of his care and solicitude. Peace,
love and unity dwell in our midst; every
member seems awake to her duties and
quite ready to respond to any call. Our
worthy President with her able Counselors
are prompt in all their duties and the So-
ciety feel, in listening to their counsel, they
are blessed and prospered.
	Our financial report is as follows from
Dec. 13th, 1877.
	Cach donated for Temple................$ 17, 75
	Disbursed for the same.....................   14, 80
	Donations received for general pur-
			poses....................................    94, 67
	Paid for wheat....................................     45, 20
	Disbursed for Benefit of Society......     30, 10
	Remaining in Society in goods,
			carpets, etc...........................    11, 00
	Cash paid for lumber for wheat
			bin..........................................    16, 00
	For one thousand shingles.................     4, 00
	Nails for wheat bin...............................    2, 00
	For Banner, E. M. C. S. S.......................	12, 35
	Stock in Big Cottonwood Co-op...........	25,00
	Means donate for a New Ward
			House........................................ 	128, 40
	Donated in goods for work done
			for temple.................................	  6,00
	Wheat on hand........................................      85 hu.
	Praying for the richest of heaven's bless-
ings to be with and attend you, we are most
respectfully yours,
					A. E. NEFF, Pres't.
					F. M. NEFF, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE "Woman's Journal" tells us of a
lady lecturer on Communism, who held
forth on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washing-
ton, D. C., May 5th. She had all the argu-
ments of Butler and Voorhees at her 
tongue's end, and declared the American
Commune was already strongly organized.
	MISS Catherine Esther Beecher died at
Elmira, New York, on Saturday, May 11th,
at the residence of her brother, Rev.
Thomas K. Beecher. She was born at East
Hampton, Long Island, Sept. 6, 1800. The
death of Prof. Fisher, of Yale College, to
whom she was betrothed while young,
changed the whole course of her life, and
she never married. She taught for many
years in seminaries and institutions of learn-
ing, and devoted herself to the develop-
ment of plans for the education of women,
in writing and teaching. Miss Beecher has
written some books that have been widely
circulated. One of her later works, enti-
tled "Common Sense Applied to Religion,"
was the subject of much comment in reli-
gious circles, differing widely from the old
Calvinistic theology. Her personal influ-
ence has been very great. Her brother,
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, in referring to
her life, said, "Few persons, even in the
ministry, had influenced as many minds as
she had, because she reached the mother
mind, and whoever carries the mother
mind moves the world. Although she
was not a mother, she had reached and in-
fluenced millions."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		11


<to scatter="" light="" fh="" deeds="" of="" loro,="" v.="" brlghte’hlrig="" and="" cheering'="" whercaoe’er="" they="" fall;="" grant-me="" thy="" holiest="" infllittlee="" within,="" tbdf="" as,the="" yparesupcessiyoiyualong="" .j,.="" s%ntly,="" unseen="" by="" all="" avet'beef="" v..t="" ‘="" l&ch="" inwrought="" cbristldh="" virtue!="" may="" grow="" bright!1'="" grant,="" fdther="" whon="" powerful="" hand="" shall="" crush:"="" my="" frame="" as="" i="" this="" wondrou?="" casket="" frail,="" .="" t-="" itplno="" eye,="" allrsearchlng="" gazing="" on="" soul,="" (.="" nothing="" find="" to="" offond,="" but="" clear,="" serene1,="" '="" sparkling="" with="" heavenly="" gldw,="" from="" thc;wor’ld!="" -itjttsullipdx="" it="" gleam,="" radiant="" even="" ;="" ]="" vkjmnlscient="" god,="" wlt'h'pure$t="" love="" thee!="" ,="" -j="" j(jvv="" hollow,="" tjall="" r6ck="" lined="" tjith="" crystals,;="" -------------------------------------<="" div="">TO A GEODE. *

BROUGHT FROM THE BANKS OF THE
MISSISSIPPI.
Though years, aye, centuries, over thee have rolled,
Into thy beauteous heart still have my eyes,
Of all the earth's these eyes first penetrated,
Thou wonderment of God's creative power!
Vain were it to inquire of thee why thou
Within thy nodule rough foldest thy gems?
Or who thee wrapped in cerements coarse and plain
And bade thee 'neath the waterfall to lie,
Upon the river's bank, or boulder rock,
Unnoticed and alone?—and to thy heart;
Thine inner temple, gave such beauty rare?
Who thee endued with power the rainbow hues
From the o'erarching heaven to bring?—yes, thou,
With thy prismatic skill, dost decompose
The delicate rays that form our glad'ning light!—
With such precision geometrical,
Who measured all thy angles, crystal-shaped,
Made multiform and regular their sides,—
Each shaft minute, finished so wondrously?
Thou smiling prairie flower, give answer here,
Thou sportive, music-warbling bird, reply?
And, noble stream, that bearest million souls
Upon thy stalwart breast, what sayest thou?
God?—He who on my soul its power bestowed
To live for evermore? O Thou, Almighty!
By the immortal spirit Thou hast given,
Aid me to draw the glory of thy heaven
To earth, to scatter light in deeds of love,
Brightening and cheering wheresoe'er they fall.
Grant me thy holiest influence within,
That as the years successive roll along
Silently and unseen by all save thee,
Each inwrought Christian virtue may grow bright
Grant, Father when thy powerful hand shall crush
My frame as I this wondrous casket frail,
Thine eye, all-searching gazing on my soul,
May nothing find to offend, but clear, serene,
Sparkling with heavenly glow, and from the world
Unsullied, may it gleam, and radiant ever,
Omniscient God, with purest love to thee!
—Selected.
	*A hollow ball of rock lined with crystals,


[Column 1]
THE HOLY SCRIPTURE.
BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is ever an inspiration in the Scrip-
tures that I feel in no other book; yet oth-
ers charm, delight, instruct, and have
made for me often a sunshine in the shade.
It was my mother's custom to teach her
children to read selections from the New
Testament as soon as they had passed
through the primer, and explain to them
what they read as far as they were capable
to understand; many of the chapters are
written in plain and simple language, such
as a child can compass. This system no
doubt accounts for the delightful associa-
tions that have clung to me through life,
and the inspiration accompanying them;
In these days I mourn to find an infidelic
feeling with regard to the Holy Scriptures.
I hear intelligent educated women exclaim-
ing "I cannot read the Scriptures, they
are so deep, I know nothing about them."
These words tell the tale, did they read they
would know and have very different feel-
ings with regard to them. These Scrip-
tures have fed the world for generations
with "food convenient to them," and many
have been enlightened, strengthened and
invigorated by them for the journey of
life, and the trials that "flesh is heir to."
There they have beheld themselves as in a
mirror, their experience has been mapped
out before them, and there they have also
found the panacea for them. The psalms
of David are especially descriptive of hu-
man life, its trials, sorrows, weaknesses,
sins, repenta[-]ce, and the glory and exalta-
tion that awaits the soldier of Christ, when
the warfare of this terrestial existence is
ended. The Spirit of God and His inspira-
tion, runs through every part of them, and
by this establishes their divine origin un-

[Column 2]
mistakably, this applies to the whole Scrip-
tures; it seems impossible that a pure un-
sophisticated mind, cultivated by nature
and education, should fail to discover the
footprints of Deity, and by means of the
spirit ear catch the whisperings of the "still
small voice" that breathes into every mind
that is open to receive it. That discrepan-
cies have crept in, there can be no doubt
during the casualties they have passed
through, its transit from one language to
another, and through so many opposing
elements. Three thousand of these holy
Books, were, by command of the Pope,
burnt at one time in Smithfield, London,
and they have passed through all manner of
emergencies and distractions from the per-
secution of enemies. Yet these Scriptures
exist in innumerable numbers in all civil-
ized countries to-day, in every clime and
tongue, a living oracle to all who seek for
the spirit of God by which they were writ-
ten. The old Scriptures are an epic poem,
the greatest and the grandest ever penned
by mortal hand. In what other book shall
we find such divine ethics, such wise and
just laws, such god-like charity, such equal-
handed justice, such truth in sublime, un-
blushing nudity; such lofty heroism, such
living po[-]try as in the Holy Writ? Its al-
legories are inimitable. Its parables a code
of wisdom all would do well to study. It
was written in a country, and a language
abundant in allegory and figure of speech;
such was the common language of Egypt
and Palestine, where its chief scenes are
laid. What books on earth can compare
with Ezekiel, Isaiah, the book of Job—the
sublime, the mysterious book of Job; and
the climax of all, the Revelations. But 'tis
vain to attempt enumerating from first to
last it is the Book of Books. Sir Walter
Scott says:

		"Within this awful volume lies
		The mystery of mysteries,
		And better had he ne'er been born,
		Than read to doubt, and read to scorn."

	Both men and women of the Scriptures
are models to copy from; there is no false
gloss thrown over them, they are brought
out in bold relief, the head as well as the
foot is t[-]ld; no flattery is seen in those pag-
es; no tinselled drapery, "no stars or gar-
ters" to dazzle the eyes, and hoodwink the
judgment; no titles of honor, "Their epitaph
is their name alone." We say Moses, and
the law-giver of Israel rises before us—
Isaiah, and the sublime prophet and poet of
God is there in all his glory—Ezekiel, the
man of sublime visions, and the avenger—
'Tis useless to individualize where all are
great and good.
	I have ever observed that a Bible—a
Scripture reader, one who-desired and pray-
ed for the inspiration of the spirit of God
as they read and studied these sublime re-
cords, I note that they spring at once to a
higher degree of intelligence, a larger
heart, a more expanded brain, a more com-
prehensive judgment; and in consequence
a more extended charity and a greater ap-
preciation of the sublime, the beautiful and
the glorious; because the soul has been
awakened and cultivated by the Book of
inspiration of the Spirit of God. The Bi-
ble has ever been a text book and our laws
are framed from its code—and between the
Old and New Testament there is a perfect
harmony. The sacred observance of the
Sabbath, is one of the testimonies of the
divine origin of the Holy Scriptures.
"Wherefore the children of Israel shall
keep the Sabbath, it is a sign between me
and them forever." Such are the words of
God Himself, Exodus 31st chapt., 16-17
verses. Nothing can be more emphatic

[Column 3]
than this; I feel a time is rapidly approach-
ing when the divinity of the Scripture will
be proved by marvellous demonstrations,
for it is written "Heaven and earth shall
pass away but my words shall not pass
away." Let the doubting, and more, the
infidel, study these mysterious pages, let
them pray, if they are not accustomed to
that holy exercise, try it, "prove all things"
and believe that though you may take them
in hand with a scoff, it will be a testimony
to you, that you "remain to pray," and your
words will be those of one of old, "Help
Thou my unbelief."
—June, 1878.


CHEERFULNESS.

	"It gives to beauty half its power
		The nameless charm worth all the rest
	The light that dances o'er the face,
		And speaks of sunshine in the breast."

	The person who possesses a cheerful tem-
perament is one to whom the heart instinc-
ively turns for society and sympathy.
Cheerful people do a vast amount of good
in this world by buoying up and encourag-
ing others. It is a virtue in itself and a
promoter of happiness inward and out-
ward. It is not simply an act but a habit
of the mind, and one which should be nour-
ished and cultivated; it is as beneficial as
the sunshine, and as capable of reflection.
I do not wish to be understood as applying
the term to something short lived and tran-
sient, but that which is fixed, permanent
and abiding. Cheerfulness cannot be said
to give the mind or the person exquisite
or overwrought gladness, but is an anti-
dote against falling into the depths of sor-
row. It is not like a brilliant flash of viv-
id lightning that breaks suddenly through
a gloomy mist of clouds and glitters efful-
gently for a brief, transitory moment, but it
keeps a kind of daylight in the mind and
fills it completely with a calm and never-
failing serenity. The person who is cheer-
ful, is happy to a certain extent, not laugh-
ing loudly, or ever overflowing with ex-
cessive mirth, these are not indications of
joy. Goldsmith said: "And the loud laugh-
ter that spoke the vacant mind," but
wearing a smile always, unless under the
presence of some heavy affliction. The
great and good effect of a cheerful temper-
ament upon those around us can scarcely be
estimated; the influence is contagious, it re-
flects itself and diffuses itself around upon
all that come within the circle of its radia-
tion.
	Cheerfulness leads to genuine kindness
and affability. Most persons can be endow-
ed with this precious gift if they rightly
appreciate its possession, and seek to culti-
vate it. I can see only two reasons that
could tear this happiness from us, and they
are these, an inward consciousness of guilt,
and disbelief in a Supreme Being. An
atheist can never wear the same smile of
innocence, although infidels are, judging
from what I have ever heard, or read, giv-
en, at times, to excessive mirth but usually
inclined to melancholy, "and the glance of
melancholy is a fearful gift." Cheerfulness
is ever consistent with the spirit of our
holy religion.
	ANNA.
S. L. City, March 13, 1876.	A. W. G.


MISS ALETTA Jacobs has obtained the de-
gree of Doctor of Medicine in Holland. It
is the first time the title has been conferred
upon a lady in that country. She intends
to practice in Amsterdam.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.     Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

OLD FOLKS' EXCURSION.

	The excursion of the old folks from this city
to Ogden took place on Tuesday, June 11, and
was a most interesting event. We most heart-
ily commend those who first conceived the
idea of giving the old folks an "out" of this
kind. The aged should always be looked upon
with esteem and respect, and any lack of cour-
tesy to a person in years should never be coun-
tenanced; and the strong and vigorous ought
to be ever ready to lend a helping hand to con-
tribute to their enjoyment. Life is serious,
but human nature makes many requisitions of
men and women, with its peculiar character-
istics, and people are sometimes neglectful of
affording seasonable recreation for those past
middle life. And the facts in this case prove
that among this people the aged and infirm
are not forgotten. Everything for the comfort
of the party had been previously arranged
systematically by the committee, Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter, Elders C. R. Savage and George
Goddard, with the assistance of Superintend-
ent John Sharp. President John Taylor, Elders
Wilford Woodruff and Joseph F. Smith, of the
Apostles, Presiding Bishop Hunter, with many
of the Bishops of the wards and other breth-
ren accompanied the party. There were thir-
teen cars loaded, and a happier company could
scarcely be found. The Tenth Ward brass
band played at each station by the way, and
other old people came aboard at each of the
stopping places. Everything that could add
to the enjoyment of the party seemed to have
been thought of by the kindly and discreet
committee. Cakes and candles with some ex-
cellent lemonade were passed through the cars
freely to all, and a general good feeling was
manifested. The Seventh Ward Glee Club,
with Elder George Goddard, sang in each car
some appropriate and lively songs.
	Arrived at Ogden, a committee were in wait-
ing to give the company a welcome reception;
the Ogden brass band was playing delightfully;
a party of little girls dressed in white presented
bouquets to the most aged, and teams were in
waiting to take the entire company to the
Grove, where all needful preparations had been
made to make every one comfortable. Tables
were ready and stoves set up, so that those who
wished could have tea or coffee prepared for
them, and blooming young girls were there to
render any assistance to the old people. The
grove was simply delightful, with its heavy
foliage overhead for shade, and green grass un-
derneath for carpeting, and the sunshine, sub-
dued and mild as it slantingly gleamed between
the boughs of the venerable trees, lent a glow-
ing radiance to the scene, and lit up the smil-
ing countenances of those who met there un-
der such peculiar circumstances. Friends long
parted clasped hands once more, dear acquaint-

[Column 2]

ances renewed their former associations for a
moment, and greetings of those who may
never meet again this side the vail were inter-
changed." "O it was wonderful," Was this
great grove full, And all hearts were brimful
Of a bliss that was joyful. President Peery
and his counselors, Elder Franklin D. Richards,
Mayor Farr, and many others used their ut-
most endeavors to make the occasion a happy
one. A more quaint and curious spectacle was
never presented than this grove scene, with
the old folks, and their picnic in little groups
here and there, eating, talking and laughing.
	After the refreshments had been partaken of
by all, the company was called to order by El-
der George Goddard, and they sang "Come let
us anew," &c. Elder L. W. Hancock offered
prayer, and the famous singers, the Italiau
brothers, gave a song in their own language.
Then prizes were distributed, first to the oldest
persons present; the first one being awarded
to Catherine Wilson, 96 years old, born in Mer-
rionetshire, Wales. This old lady drove a
team across the plains, through the rivers,
over steep mountain passes in 1848. The sec-
ond prize was given to William Wild, 95, born
in Northamptonshire, England. The next
prizes were to the oldest persons who had drawn
a handcart over the plains, and the next prizes
were to old ladies who had borne the largest
number of children. Ann Moss had been
married 50 years, and had borne twenty-one
children; Sarah Haslam had borne twenty chil-
dren; and Elizabeth Taylor had borne fourteen
children, and had 600 grand-children and
great-grand-children. Other prizes were dis-
tributed, some to ladies who had yoked and un-
yoked their own cattle and driven them across
the plains, and for several other extraordinary
occurrences and so forth.
	Songs were sung by old gentlemen and la-
dies, foot races were run, jigs danced, and a
variety of incidental impromptus filled up the
time. Music by the bands followed, and after
that speeches from the stand, while the audi-
ence listened in rapt awe and solemnity to
hear the words of the men of God as they ad-
dressed them on this memorable occasion.
Mayor Farr, of Ogden, was the first speaker—
he welcomed them one and all of every class
and creed to Ogden, thanked them for their
company, felt honored with their visit, and
invoked blessings upon their heads.
	Bishop Hunter said he should be destitute of
human feeling if he were not grateful to all
who had aided in this agreeable excursion.
Related his experience in coming to Ogden the
first time, and incidents which transpired by
the way, when there was only one white man
there in the first settlement of this Territory.
Told the people he should be 85 years old on
the 22d day of this month and was bale and
hearty. Said he remembered well the day
when Washington was buried—the gloom that
rested upon the people, what kind of a day it
was, and many things connected with it, and
said he expected to stay a little longer on the
earth. He blessed the old folks and all who
had aided in the excursion.	*	*
	Elder Woodruff said he had met on that occa-
sion some of those with whom he had traveled
up to Zion's Camp, some of the Pioneers, and
some of the Mormon Battalion, and he did
not believe such an assembly as this could be
gathered in any other part of the world.	*	*
	President John Taylor expressed himself
blessed in meeting his friends; said the joy of
the Gospel did not diminish with age.	*	*
While we trusted iu the Almighty He would
never forsake us nor our children, but this
work would roll on, and living or dying all
was well; Zion would be built up and arise and

[Column 3]

shine. He blessed the fathers and mothers in
Israel, and all present, in the name of Jesus.
	Elder C. R. Savage then returned thanks to
all who had contributed to make the occasion
a pleasant one.
	As soon as possible, but in perfect order, the
people were conveyed to the depot, and soon
all were on board the train, the band playing
"Homeward Bound." The whole affair passed
off peacefully, and a universal good feeling
prevailed. The journey home was particularly
pleasant, for a smile of contentment and satis-
faction beamed on every face, and no accident
or incident had occurred to mar the happiness
of the occasion. It was a time long to be re-
membered, an occasion replete with senti-
ments of the most lofty character, and must
inspire in the hearts of every participator,
emotions of kindliness and a feeling to honor
the aged and infirm. Let us all encourage in
our children a desire to extend every courtesy
to those who are declining in years, and honor
their grey hairs. God bless the Old Folks.
	[---] Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AMONG ITEMS we are unable to publish in
this issue are Society Reports from South Jor-
dan, West Portage, Toguerville, Tooele, East
Bountiful, Kanab, Payson, Franklin, Mendon,
Spring City, and also other articles. We are com-
pelled to state again that we do not publish
obituary poems, but occasionally a verse or two
when we can do so consistently.
	On the 17th of May, in company with Mrs.
Zina D. Young, we visited South Cottonwood
Relief Society. The day was a stormy one,
and was a hindrance, no doubt. to a full at-
tendance, but the meeting was nevertheless an
excellent one. The annual report was read,
which reflected great credit on the sisters.
This society have a lot of their own sown with
wheat, and it is looking very well indeed. We
learned that the Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation was in good condition. We had a
pleasant time with the sisters, breakfast
with Mrs. Lucy Bullock, and took dinner with
Mrs. Cahoon, President of the Society; on our
way home visited the Germania Smelting 
Works.
	ON THURSDAY, June 6, we attended, in com-
pany with Miss E. R. Snow, the Relief Socie-
ty Meeting of the Second Ward. The meet-
ing was presided over with dignity by Mrs.
Sarah Wheeler; the minutes were excellent,
and showed the energy and activity of the sis-
ters in the labors of the kingdom. There was
a goodly attendance and a full and free flow of 
the Spirit of God. The remarks made by the 
sisters were earnest, strong and practical.
Miss Snow spoke impressively to the young
upon Celestial Marriage, and urged upon the
young people the necessity of entering into
these holy covenants; exhoted them above all
things to hold htis principle sacred, and never
upon any account speak evil of it. After
meeting the officers of the Society and invited
guests repaired to Br. Leek's residence and
partook of a suptuous repast.
	THE DESERET University closed for the year
on Friday, June 7. The exercises were enter-
taining, and showed the advanced progress of
the institution. Pres. John Tayler, Professors
Lewis and Riggs, Elder Joseph F. Smith,
David McKenzie, Wm. Jennings, George Rey-
nolds, C. W. Stayner, James Dwyer and some
others were present by invitation. Dr. Park,
principal of the school, read the names of
those who had been awarded certificates in the
Normal course, and the graduates in the Aca


demical course. We would like to give the
names here, but have not space; we noticed
with much satisfaction the name of Miss Mat-
tie H. Paul (one of our lady typoes) as a grad-
uate in Chemistry. An appropriate speech
was made by Mr. Roberts, followed with re-
marks by Prest. Taylor, Prof. Lewis, George
Reynolds, Regent, and Professors Toronto and
Kingsbury. Mr. Frank Cannon, in behalf of
a committee of the students, presented to Pro-
fessors Park and Toronto two pairs of beauti-
ful engravings, as a testimonial of esteem and
appreciation of their diligent labors. The gen-
tlemen responded happily, althongh taken en-
tirely by surprise.
	The Second Quarterly Meeting of all the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, on Saturday, the
22nd day of June, and will convene at 2
o'clock p.m. The President and Secretary of
the Board desired us to state that they wished
the Reports handed in from the several branch-
es as soon as possible, in order to facilitate the
work of the Secretary, and that everything
might be arranged in perfect order. The breth-
ren and sisters who are interested in promot-
ing women's interest in Zion are cordially in
vited to be present on the occasion. It is ex-
pected that, at this Quarterly meeting,
there will be time and opportunity to hear
from some of the brethren of the Quorum of
Apostles and other honored brethren, and also
from the presidents of the various branches of
the Relief Society and other sisters who may 
be present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


VISIT TO BEAR LAKE VALLEY

	I left home Thursday morning, April 4th
to visit my children in Bear Lake Valley, go-
ing by way of Evanston. I heard part of a
conversation between some gentlemen on the
cars, which was very amusing. There was a
little man aboard who seemed to be very ner-
vous and inquisitive; on arriving at a small
town he said, "What place is this?" A gen-
tleman from Salt Lake City (not of our faith)
replied, "This is Echo" The little man asked,
"Are there any Mormons here?" The answer
was "I do not know; if there are any they will
not hurt you." He then gave him a short ac-
count of the building up of the town while they
were building the railroad, the number of in-
habitants, how many men and women and
how many Mormons there were then; he him-
self living there at the time. "Now," said he,
"I live in Salt Lake City, with Mormon neigh-
bors all around me; they treat me as well as
they do their own people. One thing I like
about them they support their own poor, and
sustain their won church, while other denomi-
nations are always begging of me. They make
me pay them money every year, while the
Mormons let me alone." "Well," said the
nervous man, "I don't know anything about
them, only what I hear in the East. I would
like to go to Salt Lake myself." The other
gentleman said, "You would find there a good,
industrious people."
	At Evanston I took the stage, arriving at
Woodruff about eight o'clock, and was kindly
entertained by Bishop Lee and family. Sister
Lee, who is President of the Relief Society,
said that they were raising stock to sell for the
purpose of raising money to buy wheat to store
away, as it was too cold to raise much grain in
that valley. I commended them for their en-
ergy  and wished them success in the enter-
prise, and I counseled the other Societies in
Bear Lake Valley to go into the same business.
	The next day I went to Paris, a distance of
sixty miles, arriving on Friday, and found my
children all well. During my stay I met with
the Relief Societies of the First and Second
Wards in Paris, also with the Young Ladies'
Associations. I also visited Montpelier, St.
Charles, Ovid and Bloomington, and accom-
panied President Budge, by invitation from
him, to Liberty, and assisted Bishop Austin in
organizing a Relief Society in that place. I
told them they were behind the times, and
living beneath their privileges in being so long
without an organization. President Rich and
Budge are very much interested in the labors
of the sisters, also the Bishops that met with
us. Paris is improving very fast. On my re-
turn trip I met with the Mutual Improvement
Association of Meadowville. They having no
Relief Society, I told the sisters by all means to
have one organized by the Bishop, explaining
to them the difference between the two or-
ganizations-the Relief Society being organ-
ized by the Priesthood, to assist the Bishops in
looking after the poor of their Ward, as well
as other important duties they were called up-
on to perform, while the other was expressly
for improvement among the young; morally
and spiritually. I was everywhere met with
love and kindness. We had much of the Spir-
it of God in our meetings, and all felt bl[---]
and benefitted. We had a pleasant trip home
in our own carriage, my husband and part of
his family being with me, arriving about eight
o'clock Sunday evening, May 6, finding all
well, for which blessing I am truly thankful to
my Heavenly Father.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
PLEASANT MOMENTS.

	The influence of moments spent in pleasant
company, or among pleasant surroundings is
always elevating. Everybody is ready to ac-
knowledge the influence of plesaant people.
There is something invigorating and refreshing
in the society of people of pleasant and kindly
manners, even though they know nothing of
the rules of etiquette, and are not versed in
language, or science. They reflect themselves
and carry the sunshine of life with them,
which gladdens all that come within the radius
of its beams. But pleasant moments impress
themselves upon the heart, they linger in our
memory like some bright dream, and we recall
them again and again, and live them over and
over in imagination.
	Times, hours, moments, spent among scenes
that have engraven themselves upon memo-
ry's tablets form pleasant episodes in the his-
tory of individuals; they not only impress us
happily and add to our enjoyment then, but
ever and anon along the journey of life, in
moments of quiet, or it may be when sorrow
lays its hand in chastening upon us, these mo-
ments of delight rise up to bless us with their
tender reminiscences, and we draw around us
with fancy's picturing the loved ones who
were near us in the far-off time, and breathe
in again, as it were, the exquisite luxury of
the moments never to be forgotten.
	It is not always wealth, or its appliances, or
surroundings, that yield most real pleasurable
moments; often in the rustic cottage beside
the open fire of pine knots, or in some plain,
homely garden, or perchance, under the boughs
of some gnarled and unsymmetrical old tree,
the tender thought, the brilliant jest may have
been called forth, that will live in memory
while life lingers. How peculiar are human
emotions, and how curiously they affect the

[Column 2]

body and the mind. All persons that have ar-
rived at middle age, at least, will agree with me
that moments of past pleasure are as drops of
gentle dew, or as soft healing balm, and ever
kindle anew sensations of joy. Life's roughest
paths, beset with thorns and difficulties, are
made easier and smoother, and all trials more
endurable, by the brighter passages which now
and then intervene, in the shape of pleasant
moments. Perchance it is only a visit of some
dear, precious friend, or relative, bringing with
them a true heart and the genuine sympathy
that is ever pleasing to the recipient, and a
weight is lifted for a moment, and we breathe
an elevating atmosphere for a time.
	Pleasures are short-lived, it is said, but we
might all add many pleasant moments to our
lives by becoming more truly helpful to each
other. When we reflect how much pleasure
we are capable of enjoying and imparting, we
should be wise enough to husband all the plea-
sant hours we can, and while we gather to our
hearts the honey which distils from acts of
kindness and words of love and tenderness, let
us scatter around our pathway the fragrance of
the rich treasures we have received. We think
too little of each other, and grow too hard and
practical, methinks, sometimes, neglecting the
pleasant moments we might enjoy, lest we
should lose our chance of gaining some de-
sired object; but no amount of wealth, or luxu-
ry, or attainments, can over satisfy tthe soul, if
all is crude and severe and narrow in our home
and its associations. The humble peasant toils
the live-long day, and if when night comes a
loving wife greets him with a kiss, a smile,
and lights up his home with a joyful counten-
ance, such moments repay the toil, the hard-
ship, and lift the soul beyond labor, to revel in
the realms of domestic bliss.
	Let us garner up in the storehouse of the
soul, along with the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge, the bright and happy remembrances
of exquisite pleasures and moments of true
enjoyment, and though these may be gone
forever, yet in the retrospective view we take
of time, they will beam upon us and give
pathos to the eloquence of life's tenderest
touches.		AUNT EM.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Mill Creek Ward, Salt Lake Co.,
June 3d, of Puerperal Fever and diseased lungs,
in her 44th year, Charlotte Rebecca Murphy,
wife of James D. Murphy. Deceased was born
in Uuion Dist., South Carolina; went with her
parents to Georgia when quite young; was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints May, 1808, by Elder Jesse
E. Murphy; emigrated to Utah in March, 1870,
where she continued to reside, faithfully per-
forming the duties of wife, mother, and Saint,
until the Lord called her to another field of
labor. Deceased was a member of the Relief
Society, and performed all the work in the
House of the Lord that time and opportunity
would admit of. She died in full faith, with
bright hopes of a glorious resurrection; truly
can it be said of her that she fought the good
fight, kept the faith, and there is a crown of
life and immortality in store for her. Truly
we mourn her loss, but not as those who have
no hope, for "Blessed are the dead who die in
the Lord, for their works do follow them.
	COM.


QUEEN Victoria was fifty-nine years old
on the 24th ult., and the anniversary was
made a holiday in Canada, while flags were
displayed on the British vessels in New
York.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
THE INFLUENCE OF WOMAN.

	The influence of woman, intellectually,
socially, morally, and religiously, upon so-
ciety to-day is great. Woman has, indeed,
more influence than she is aware of.
	A smart, intellectual woman will draw
around her minds of all ages and classes.
All will feel anxious to listen to her
thoughts and views upon the various sub-
jects of the day. From the mind of an in-
telligent, elderly person she will gain a
warm sympathy and admiration; from the
mind of an ignorant person she will draw
out the dormant faculties, and make him or
her understand that to become a MAN or
WOMAN of intelligent influence, one must
strive after knowledge and enlightenment;
from the mind of a child she will bring
forth wonder and enthusiasm, and a desire
to cultivate thoughts or abilities; and every
one will feel that she is a person worthy of
imitation.
	Also, a lady possessing a social disposi-
tion will exercise over her acquaintance a
great degree of happiness and peace. If
she is friendly and affable, her companions
will long to be in her society; for there
they will feel that the world is not all shad-
ow, but that by her social ways she sheds a
ray of sunshine on all around her, and
makes all hearts glad.
	Again, a lady possessing a good moral
natnre imparts the same to her friends, be-
cause while in her company the topics of
converstion are of a character that will im-
plant in all hearts a wish to be moral in all
their thoughts and actions, that they may
be like her. Their admiration will invol-
untarily rest upon her, and they cannot
help wishing they possessed similar moral
characteristics, and will eventually aspire 
to merit approbation in unison with hers.
	And again, a lady whose character is de-
voted to religion, is one that will bring all
hearts into subjection. Each person will
feel that she has a tendency to inspire the
heart with feelings of a pure, holy, and vir-
tuous nature. By her noble conduct she
will create in other hearts a love and ven-
eration for God and his sublime laws.
She will cause those with whom she min
gles to think of their evil ways, and for-
sake them, and turn unto their Creator, and
serve Him and praise His great name for
the precious gifts He abundantly bestows
upon all.
	When a lady is in possession of all these
divine attributes, she is, indeed, one who
has great influence over man and woman.
Even the lowest and most degraded per-
son stands before her rebuked and penitent.
All who know her will reverence and love
her, and strive to be worthy of her esteem
and friendship.
	O how great is the influence of a mother,
sister, wife, or sweetheart! A mother who
has a refined and gentle nature, who has
cultivated her thoughts and abilities, and
lived a pure, religious life, will exercise an
influence over her children, and inspire
them to become noble men and women.
She will imbue their minds with the prin-
ciples of right and justice, and teach them
to be pure, aimiable, charitable, benevo-
lent, patriotic sons and daughters of God
possessing true moral force and sterling
worth and goodness. How often can a
sister, by kind and gentle words, turn a
brother's mind from evil, and cause him to
see his error and forsake it. And the
sweetheart, or wife, by her chaste man-
ners and refined tastes, bring her lover, or
husband, to see and acknowledge the cor-
rectness of her arguments, and the clear-

[Column 2]

ness and beauty of her views. A noble,
true woman can ever soothe the poor suf-
ferer on his bed of sickness, calm the
aching heart, cheer the despondent, and
hallow a joy or success. Within her own
home she is the crowning joy of all its in-
mates; there each heart turns to her for
solace and comfort. If there is any sorrow
she is the first to modify or allay it; if any
pleasure, her presence enhances it; her in-
fluence is felt for good wherever she is.
What would home be without a gentle,
sweet-tempered woman there, to arrange
everything for the family? To prepare
some little elegant surprise, or pleasure?
Without her elevating and refining influ-
ence there would indeed be a cheerless
void.
	And the aged grandmother, in her quiet
corner, is like a ray of light from above.
Her counsel is always esteemed, and her
advice acknowledged to be good. Yes,
woman's influence is great! How careful,
then, should she be that it is not of a low
and degrading nature, but an influence that
will tend to make all better, and more
worthy of the love they receive from God;
that it may make all around her aspire to
be great and good, to live intelligently and
honestly, to strengthen their abilities, en-
large their capacities, brighten their intel-
lect, and understand their individual traits
and the principles of divine truth.
	Oh, sisters! strive to be all that you pro-
fess, always study to do good, and let the
Spirit of God dictate all your actions.
	C. E. H.


PIPSEY-PAPERS.

	A noted author says there are two things
necessary for a writer: first to have some-
thing to say and, secondly, to know how to
say it.  Lacking the first there is much
skill needed to use the second with ability.
Our Society is much interested in collecting
means for the Welsh Mission, we have al-
ready donated thirty-five dollars towards
their emigration.  No doubt as a general
thing we are not thankful enough for the
blessings we enjoy.  We make poor faces
and complain when we have bread in the
cupboard, and health in the family, forget-
ful of the days when we were glad to get
wool to spin for our dresses; when we spun
and wove all day and cut our cloth at
night, and made it up for the family com-
fort.  We had good servicable dresses then,
that lasted several years; the first year they
were usually kept for best, after which they
were usually kept for best, after which
they were taken for everyday wear, and
new ones made for Sundays, Do you re-
member sisters how much pains was taken
in dyeing, how carefully the sage brush
was boiled in the big kettle and set with
alum or copperas to make the requisite
shades for plaiding; and how proud we
were if our dresses were as fine, as smooth,
as bright colored as our neighbors'.  Then
our dainty feet were encased in good home-
made, valley-tan calfskin; one pair of shoes
lasted a year; they were put ou in the fall
and the lady who kept hers the longest,
was the envy of her less fortunate sisters.
Some of the ladies had ingenuity enough
to make their own summer shoes, with a
little help, perhaps, from the village shoe-
maker who would sew on the soles in the
evening when his day's work in the field
was done, if he was industriously inclined,
in view, perhaps, of a nice roll of butter
for his holiday dinner.
	My reminiscences may be considered in
bad taste, but I cannot help thinking of
these things when I see my sisters robed in
"purple and fine linen," with their voluni-
nous skirts sweeping the dust from the
sidewalks, and hear them find fault and
complain of their privations and harships.
We should thank God for every blessing
and carry our small annoyances as lightly
as possible, for we never know when mis-
fortune may overtake us.  My neighbor,
Mrs. Ezra Oakley received a letter from her
husband, at Leeds saying that he was well,
and doing well.  The next day the word
came flashing over the wires that he was
dead; died of pneumonia and heart-disease
at the age of twenty-six, leaving a wife
and child, a mother and two sisters wild
with grief at the unexpected bereavement.
How small the common worriments of life
seem compared to such a sorrow!
	Speaking of our daily crosses, brings to
mind a dream I will relate, hoping my sis-
ters may profit by its teachings as I have
done.
	I thought I saw a child buried in very
beautiful robes.  After the friends had
gone away I said to a woman standing by,
what a pity it was for such beautiful cloth-
ing to be hidden and rot in the ground
when something plainer would do as well;
let us take it up and keep the clothing our-
selves, which we accordingly did, putting
some plainer things upon the body and
burying it again.  When fairly through
our task we began thinking what we had
done and what dreadful consequences would
follow if it was discovered.  An awful ter-
ror come over us insomuch that we conclud-
ed to take the child up and put the clothes
back. When we tried to do so some one
came by and we waited for them to pass,
and others came and hindered us until we
were called away and it was not accom-
plished.  I awoke in grief and tears, and
the interpretation was given me then.  It
meant that if we had troubles or disagree-
ments when they were settled and past, we
should let them lie buried and not bring
them forth to annoy us, for it was difficult
to have them replaced.  So whenever  I
thought of a past grievance I remembered
my dream and said nothing about it.  When
you are disposed to bring forward old
troubles to torture or distress you, just re-
member it will be hard to bury them as
they were before and let them alone.  I
have seen much happiness since I took that
for my motto, and let my troubles lie bur-
ies.						MARY.


MEADOWVILLE.

	This place is surrounded by gentle slop-
ing mountains covered with beautiful green
verdure to sustain animal life; and as Au-
tumn approaches every variegated color one
can conceive, attracts the eye. The mead-
ows lying east of the town, fenced in for
hay and pasturage afford an abundance of
the best quality of hay, equal to tame grass;
it grows two to three feet in height wet
seasons. Butter is made here of the best
quality, yellow, rich and hard, through the
summer season; I have churned butter in
the month of July, and it would be as hard
as in other climates in the winter. Had
we oak firkins, and pure salt, our butter
could not be surpassed for sweetness and
solidity. If some one would take an inter-
est in setting out a few acres of the oak,
what great advantage could be derived
therefrom. Here we have one of the most
beautiful and romantic springs, the largest
in the Territory, forming a creek three
miles in length, which empties itself into
Bear Lake. In this spring the trout came
up to spawn from the Lake. From this


spring is brought a ditch around the West
hills to irrigate with; this brings a
great deal of land under cultivation, this
ditch is rather sluggish as it has not much
fall.  A greater project has been entered in-
to by bringing the water from a contrary
direction, bringing out the water from a
higher location and uniting small springs
which run a considerable distance higher
than the other, thns bringing under culti-
vation hundreds of acres that could not oth-
erwise have been cultivated.  In about two
weeks time, five miles of this ditching has
been made by the energetic and stalwart
sons of Israel.  What will union, when com-
bined with effort not accompish? It will
make the earth like the Garden of Eden,
to blossom like the rose, and yield forth
her strength.  To-day the brethren are sur-
veying for a ditch to carry the water
around the east hills, which if successful,
will invite the settlers to build their coun-
try seats above the ditch in the side-hills,
which will afford dry cellars, early gardens
and orchards.  A row of dwellings on the
east and west side of the town, with gar-
dens and orchards in front would make the
scenery remind one of the Highlands of
Scotland. Would that a few of the hardy
race from the north regions would come
and help settle this salubrious climate.
Here the sweet pure air is bracing, it
comes from the mountain-tops clad with
snow, breaking through the timbers, and
onward to the blue waters of the lake.
Here one can sleep in sweet repose for the
nights are always cool.  This high and
healthy location, would lengthen out the
days of the invalid and the weakly could
not spend their time to better advantage
than to pay a visit to Bear Lake to recruit.
We would invite a few mechanics to our
valley; a blacksmith would do well, as all
the travel this way, passes through here,
when the road is open.  A man or two with
large families could find employment for
boys or girls, as farmers are always in need
of help, and a more healthy place could
not be found to raise a family.  We have a
day and Sunday school, Fast meetings, and
two Society meetings.  It seems to me
that if there were means to emigrate, none
need suffer in the old countries, for there
is an abundance of land lying here in an
uncultivated state.  Sisters let us appropri-
ate a portion of our means to the emigra-
gration fund, every society can do some-
thing. Little girls pick up the waste pieces,
wash and color them nicely, make them
into carpets or make quilts, and instead of
raffling them off, surprise needy sisters
with them, and each one pay ten or fifteen
cents and put the means in the fund.
This would answer two purposes, and your
work would be greatly blest.  In country
towns we can glean all kinds of grain, and
get produce, and where fruit grows, dry it;
if the frost takes the grain we will save the
straw, and braid it into hats, to assist in
bringing the Saints from abroad, that they
may help to build up Zion and strengthen
her Stakes.
						M. A. PRATT.
Mae dowville, May 24th, 1878.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE
EDITOR EXPONENT. 
    As we wish always to be numbered with
those your paper represents, we thought
we would report ourselves again. We are
trying to be as self-sustaining as possible,
and alive to the duties of our calling. We
have had a visit from Sisters E.R. Snow 
and E. Davis, for which we are very grate-
ful, and hope to ever retain the spirit of
the instuctions given, that they may be as
beneficial as they were encouraging. We
welcome the EXPONENT and thought if
not intruding to much we would like you
to give space in its columns for the minutes
of the meeting.
					May 12th, 1878.

 A meeting called on account of a visi.
from Sister E. R. Snow and E. Davis
Pres't. M. L. Woolf, presiding. Singing
--Prayer by Bishop R. Daines. Singing--
The President thanked the sisters and gave
the meeting into their hands. Sister Snow
said we were one if we were true Latter-
day Saints, desired the prayers of the 
saints, that true saints were not satisfied
but by the Spirit of God. In the Church
there is but one interest; she had the same
interest for this ward that she had for the
one over which she presided. That the
time was when it was preposterous for a
woman to talk when brethren were present,
that we were learning our true position;
in Eden the same law was given to man
and woman but through transgression men
rule. What women ever be from under
that curse? Not outside of this church.
We have much to live for, for if worthy
we are joint-heirs with Jesus Christ. We
stand at the head of womankind. Joseph
said in the eternal worlds we had the choice
to attain to the reward of the faithful. We
are the truly noble; we should give CASTE
to the Gentile world, not pattern after it;
but we could not do so in ignorance, we
must cultivate ourselves. We have germs
implanted within us that we can aspire to
the highest positions. We should converse
on subjects pertaining to every day life,
but by way of encouragement we should
speak of the glorious future of the faithful.
We have no interest but the Kingdom of

God; when Zion prospers we prosper; we
should live above the trials of this life, we 
should forget ourselves in the great mis-
sion we had to perform, should not com-
plain of our many aches and pains, and
should not judge harshly. The brethren
talk of great matters, we have to deal with 
small matters but underlyning great ones.
Joseph said sisters were more capable to ad-
minister to the sick and comfort them, but
there is a sympathy that is false and does
not tend to good; we should not pity each
other in our trials, but encourage each oth-
er to overcome them. Bear with each oth-
er's faults, wrong will not right wrong.
All the sisters should belong to the Relief 
Society and be live members; God has or-
ganized these Societies for women to help
the priesthood, unless we meet as God has
appointed we would lack spiritual food.
We should be fellow-workers, should be 
charitable with each other, nothing produc-
es true happiness but the Spirit of God.
Women give character to society, mothers
should be real saints. Mothers have great
influence and are not working for today
only. The Lord wanted a generation of
Saviors. Showed to the young sisters the
necessity of preparing themselves for their
high calling, and the young men to never
defile their tabernacles by the use of tobac-
co or liquor, nor ever profane the name of
the Deity; but to aim high, they could not
aim so high but what they could attain it if
they lived up to the privleges of the Gos-
pel. The Lord could not save the human
family without Celestial Marriage; this life
is nothing to the eternity to come. Sisters
E. Davis bore her testimony  to the truth
of our faith; would like the sisters to take
the EXPONENT, that Mormon women could
be represented through their own paper. 
Bishops Daines and Roskelly thought if the 
inst6ructions given were carried out that we
should be blest, good counsel given by good
men and women should be as land marks
unto us, prayed the Lord to us with 
retentive memories. Mrs. Davis spoke of
the privileges of the ballot, that we should
improve our oppurtunities, or we may loose
them; the sisters should urge their hus-
bands to obtain their naturalization papers.
By request, recited a poem on Celestial
Marriage. 

Pres. Mary Woolf thought we were 
blest if we would carry out the good instruc-
tions. Singing--Benediction by J.A.
Woolf jun.
			MARY L. WOOLF, Pres't
			MARY E. GRIFFITH Sec'y.
--Hyde Park Jan. 3d.


THE PROPOSITION TO DISFRANCHISE
	THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	BY LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	The papers inform us that the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives
has recommitted the passage of a bill di-
franchising the women of Utah.
	On reading such an announcement one
feels as if some day the patience of the
women of this country would be exhausted,
and they would, under these repeated in-
sults and trials, revolt in some dumb and
helpless way against the tyranny of men
who, while professing privately all possible
admiration and affection for our sex, yet
thus publicly humiliate and injure us.
	Such conduct is like that of a man who
with one arm encircles a woman's waist,
and bending over her tells her she is all that
lovely and charming, while with the other
hand he stabs her to the heart!
	For look what a cruel and absurd propo-
sition is this: to advise taking from the
women of the Territory the right of suf-
frage in order to do away with polygramy.
Always the women, never the men. One
would think that this institution had been
invented by women, that they alone were
responsible for its iniquities, and therefore
would be justly punished by being deprived
of their liberties. How completely this is
of a piece with man’s usual treatment of
the sex. Something is wrong somewhere
in the social fabric. Some one must be
blamed, somebody must be punished. Not
the men, oh dear no! They have the
might, and therefore the right, but here
are these feeble, silly women, there is no
one to defend them, fall upon them and
beat and kick them.
	So in order to prevent intemperance,
Rhode Island passes a law that “no liquor
shall be sold to a female.” (Was an absurd-
ity greater, as if the drunkards were all
women; and if you could only stop them
drinking all would be well!)
	Certain places of amusement announce
that “no lady will be admitted without a 
gentleman.” Poor dears, what care the
men do take of their chastity to be sure!
Without this restriction some horrid fallen
woman might come in and perhaps seduce
some innocent man—if there be such a
thing. But any number of horrid fallen
men may roam about at large and try to
seduce young girls and virtuous wives—
that is of no sort of consequence.
	And now, in order to abolish polygramy,
Congress is asked to pass a law to disfran-
chise-the women!
	Of course we all know that the ballot is
practically almost useless in the hands of


both men and women in Utah, where they
are under Mormon rule.  But surely com-
mon sense and common justice would dic-
tate that the bill should be so drawn as to
disfranchise all polygamists, both men and
women, there would then be some reason
in this suggestion.
	There is a possibility that such an infa-
mous law will not find supporters enough
in the House to prevent its enactment, and
yet who can say?  The hands of the wo-
men of the land are tied; their voices are
not heard within those walls; they are
powerless to prevent this or any other in-
sult.
	And yet men pretend to represent us!
What an absurdity!  If the men held their
seats by the votes of women, no one would
dare to suggest such a proposition- men
represent women!  Yes, as tyrants repre-
sent slaves, as hawks represent doves, as
wolves represent lambs!
	[One paragraph in the above article calls
for criticism, but we believe the lady has
written this conscientiously.  She has heard
from what should be truthful and reliable
sources that "the ballot is practically almost
useless in the hands of both men and wo-
men in  Utah under Mormon rule."  We
beg leave to differ with her there, and
would be glad to have an opportunity of
meeting the lady and assigning good and
plausible reasons for the difference of the opin-
ion, as we are posted on the subject and
she is not.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


"BEAUTY and booty," was the cry of the
young man who kissed the girl and was
kicked by her father.

	PREACHER (to boy on the street): "My
little man, is your father a Christian?"
Boy: "Yes, but he ain't working at it much
lately."


[Column 1]
TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 10[-]9.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Otti[-]
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH JULY 1, 1878


For the EXPONENT.
ODE TO JUNE.

	Bright, beautiful June, with thy long, pleasant days,
Thy sunshine and languor, and soft, dreamy ways,
All blushing, and glowing, and radiant in bloom,
Bathing mountain, and meadow, and vale with perfume;
O what a world of blossoms, and of flowers,
In the month of June, is this fair earth of ours.

	The glory that rests on the mountains and hills,
And music of rivers, and fountains, and rills,
And the song of the robin, and coo of the dove,
(Inspiring emotions of tenderest love,)
These well forth in freshness, all sweetly attune,
To greet with a welcome the young maiden, June.

	Old lichened woods are dark with living green,
And blushing roses everywhere are seen;
And all the live-long night the thrush and nightingale,
Pour forth in sweetest strains, in some deep vale,
Their tales of love, their mysteries, pain and grief,
And in sweet sympathy with them there is relief -

	For those who mourn, with sorrowing hearts and tears,
The loved and cherished ones of other years,
There is an enchantment in the song and hour,
And dreams steal o'er us with bewitching power,
While shadowed fancies round our couches play,
Till larks and swallows welcome the coming day.

	And once again the earth is robed in light,
And princess June is crowned in wild delights,
Her sceptre garlanded with wreaths of flowers,
Proudly she sits within her leafy bowers;
And everywhere her dainty feet have trod,
She left an impress of the power of God.
							E. B. Wells EMILE.


For the EXPONENT.
JACOB'S PILLOW VERSUS PILLAR.
BY HANNAH T. KING.
All who have visited and explored the
glories and beauties of the great National
Cathedral of England, Westminister Abney,
have been shown "The Coronation stone"
on which the chair of state is placed, that
has borne the sovereigns of England for
many centuries at their coronation.  This
stone has a most wonderful history - it is
said to be the identical stone that Jacob
took for his pillow, when he was sent by
his parents to Padan-aram to take a wife
of the family of Bethnel, his mother's
brother; he arrived late in the evening at
the city, and found the gates were shut; "as
the sun was set," and being very weary
with his long journey, he looked around
and found a stone that he took for his pil-
low, laid down and soon fell asleep; and
God gave him a wonderful dream, or vision:
He saw a ladder set upon the earth, and
the top reached into heaven!  The angels
of God were ascending and descending on
it, and "the Lord stood at the top of it;"--
and in the vision He made a covenant with
Jacob that He would give him the land
whereon he was then sleeping. and pro-
ceeded to give him mighty blessings, and
promised that He would not leave him till
he had done all that He had said.  And
Jacob awoke, and he felt afraid and said,
"This is none other but the House of God!
and this is the Gate of Heaven"--"And he
took the stone that he had put for his pil-
low and set it up for a pillar, and poured
oil upon the top of it, and paid his vows
unto the Lord upon it as a pillar of witness
between him and his God! And said, This
stone which I have set for a pillar shall be
God's House, and I will give a tenth unto
the Lord." [Read Genesis, 28th chap , be-
ginning at the 10th verse; it is very inter-
esting throughout.]
	A very powerful tradition, amounting
almost to an historical account, declares this
stone beneath the Throne Chair in West-
minister Abbey is the identical stone that
Jacob took for his pillow, and afterwards
consecrated with holy oil, and set it up as a
pillar of witness, and as such it stands to-
day.  It is also called "the stone of desti-
ny," and the belief is that the destiny of
England, the firm basis on which her laws
and constitution, her success in arms, her
wealth and prosperity as queen of nations,
is bound up and connected by this wonder-
fnl stone!  Many prophecies are cited to
establish facts - it is believed that the Pro-
phet Jeremiah visited Britain and that a
daughter of the royal house of David ac-
companied him,and they carried this sacred
stone with them.  It was then carried to
Ireland, and afterwards taken by Fergus
XIV. to Scotland, who was crowned upon
upon it at Iona first King of Scotts and
Picts, A. D. 530--afterwards Kenneth II.
was crowned upon it King at Sione in Pictia.
Through James I. of Scotland, and VI. of
England, it was brought to England, and
placed where it has remained ever since, in
Westminister Abbey.  All the sovereigns
down to Queen Victoria have received up-
on it their royal crown and holy anointings
as such in regular and undisputed descent;
and I expect it is far more highly valued
than the Kor i nor.  It is an interesting
employment to trace out the many prophe-
cies respecting this wonderful stone--"The
Stone of Israel"--that are found in the Bi-
ble; and the very fact of so many sove-
reigns being inaugurated upon it for so
many centuries, establishes it as "a pillar
of witness" between God and those He has
seen fit to honor.
	We live in marvelous times, and many
things and many persons now thought little
of will be brought out by the providences
of God, and made to stand forth as those
whom HE delights to honor.  It has been
said the stones of the street will rise up
and testify.  Will not that rough, ragged
and weather-beaten old stone in Westmin-
ster Abbey, yet be exalted in its silent elo-
quence of long, long years, and the Kor-i-
nor, and the "Pill diamond," and the Queen
of Portugal's "largest diamond in the
world" sink into comparative insignifi-
cance?


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEORGE ELIOT, the most popular wo-
man writer of fiction at the present time,
is busy upon a new work entitled, "The
Lifted Veil."
	THE NUMBER of arrests in New York
City for the year 1877 were 88,239; 22,000
were women, and 64,000, nearly three-
fourths of the whole, men.
	THE LUTTRELL bill was reported upon
by the Committee on Territories during
the last hours of the session of the Forty-
Fifth Congress. The paragraph disfranchis-


ing polygamists had been erased. The bill
is laid over, and women have the franchise-
in Utan still. It will be a dif[-]icult matter
to pass the bill at any time, on account of
the clause relating to woman's suffrage, for
the agitation of that subject is becoming
more general every day, and one step gained
in that direction will be held with tenacity
by those who are anxious to obtain univ[--]
sal suffrage, irrespective of sex. Congress
has adjourned for the summer, and ere it
again reassembles there will so much labor
have accumulated, that these old bills will
be secondary considerations, or forgotten
altogether.
	THE NUMBER of assaults upon women in
Washington is something to attract atten-
tion, and Justice Wylie, in addressing the
jury in one of these cases, used very severe
language. "He said that ladies, either
young or old, are no longer safe from insult
while walking alone in the streets of that
city, nor are the outrages committed alone
by representatives of the lower classes.
Some of those who are called respectable
are guilty of them, and they especially
should be made to suffer the full penalties
of the law. Young women, he said, on ap-
pearing alone on the streets of Washington
after dark, are attacked like the children
of Bengal, and these tigers in human form
do not stop to ascertain whether their vic-
tims are respectable or not. So serious has
this evil become, he said, that he is tired
of it; hardly a day passes that a case of
this kind is not either brought before him
or before the lower Court."


CORRESPONDENCE.

				LONDON, March 20th, 1878.
	From the ladies of the Relief Society of the
White Chapel Branch, London, to the ladies of
the Relief Society of the Fifteenth Ward,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
DEAR SISTERS:
	We return you our sincere thanks for the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT which we have received
from you, and we find much valuable infor-
mation in its columns and we trust that by the
Spirit of God we may use the information we
gain to the blessing of the poor, and the build-
ing up of God's kingdom. Pardon us for not
writing before, as we were about to celebrate
our Fourth Anniversary we thought you
would like to hear something about it. It
took place on the the 6th of March, we cele-
brated it with a festival. President Cook and
Elder Burton were with us, and all things were
very pleasant. We have made about six hun-
dred visits among the poor saints in the last
year, and we have given among them, 9£. 0s.
8d; out of 9£, 5s. 2d., colected, leaving us in
hand 4s. 6d.
	Trusting that the Spirit of God may ever be
with you, and us in our labors of love and that
it meet your minds to continue favoring us
with "WOMAN EXPONENT," we remain your
sisters in the Covenant of Peace.
	Relief Society Officers as follow; Elizabeth
Young, President; Susan La Page, Ann H
Perry, Counselors; Ann H. Perry, Secretary;
Susan Whi[-]pen, Alice House, Jane Lower,
Eliza Farns, Elizabeth Nankvell, Teachers
			ANN H. PERRY, Secretary.


18		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THIRD QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

RELIEF SOCIETY SALT LAKE COUNTY.

	Minutes of a meeting held Saturday,
June 22d, 1878, at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Presi-
dent of Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake,
presiding. Counselors Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and S. M. Heywood, Secretary Mrs. E.
Howard, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. Marinda Hyde, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Elder
O. F. Whitney, repor[-]er for Deseret News,
and Presidents of Relief Societies from dif-
ferent settlements occupied the stand and
platform. After singing, and prayer by
Counselor E. S. Taylor, the Secretary, E.
Howard, read the minutes of the last Con-
ference, which were accepted, and then
the Quarterly report of each branch of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake County, except
the Eleventh and Nineteenth Wards of Salt
Lake City, and West Jordan, which were
not reported, were read. President Horne
then made some remarks, a part of which
are given below:
	"I do not like the word begging, which
is used in some of the reports; the word
should not be used; it is not begging, but
voluntary gifts that are contributed for
benevolent purposes. Moses called on the
Children of Istael in the wilderness to do-
nate for building a Tabernacle, and they
gave so freely of their jewels that he told
them to stop, for he had more than enough.
It was not begging. There are two or
three items I wish to mention. We are co-
laborers with the brethren, we are keeping
an account of our labors in a Stake capacity,
our Secretary needs a book for this purpose,
our Corresponding Secretary needs paper,
envelopes, stamps, pens and ink for her la-
bor. We require some means for these
public uses. At Draperville the other day,
when I was visiting the Relief Society, the
sisters contributed six dollars and ninety
cents towards a fund for that purpose. It
is a great day for women in Zion. Last
Annual Conference was the first time that
women were voted for at a Conference. I
am glad our labors are coming into notice.
When the Church was first organized there
were only six members, but it soon in-
creased in numbers; the Twelve were called
and Bishops and other officers were set
apart for various offices. In due time a
revelation was given through the prophet
to Emma, that she should read and exponnd
the Scriptures to the women, and she was
ordained to fill the position as President of
a Relief Society.
	We hope to have our next Conference
held all day. At that meeting we would
like to have a report of the labor done, and
also of the spiritual improvement. Let
each one ask herself how much she has im-
proved in speaking, praying and doing
good."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball: "I feel a degree of
diffidence and of pleasure in standing be-
fore you to-day. The 19th of next month
will be the Thirtieth anniversary of the
first organization of women in the States—
you will pardon me for referring to this,
but it is to compare it with the date of the
organization of women in this Church,
which goes farther back. A few of us
met together in my parlor in Nauvoo; we
had a desire to do something towards help-
ing to build the Temple. We had some
by-laws written out by Sister E. R. Snow,
and we showed them to President Joseph
Smith, and he said he was glad to have the
opportunity of organizing the women, as a

[Column 2]
part of the priesthood belonged to them.
He wished us to meet in the Masonic Hall,
over the "brick store," in Nauvoo, and we
did so, and there organized on the 17th of
March, 1842. Emma Smith was chosen to
preside, by unanimous vote, and Joseph
told us that she was an elect lady, as she
had been elected. Our sisters in the States
are seeking to improve their condition.
Miss Anthony, one of the leading women
among them, well known everywhere, has
written to Mrs. Wells, Editor of the EXPO-
NENT, saying the women of Utah as a body
MUST fight for the maintenance of the right
to vote, and also to get national guarantee
for all women in the nation. President
Smith the Prophet said women should ask
us for advice, and the time should come
when the women of this Church should
lead in such matters.	*	*	We should
make suggestions to each other for improve-
ment." She then read some rules that
had been written out for the Society over
which she presided.	*	*
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: "I feel it a pleasant
duty to stand before yo[-] on this occasion;
we come together from time to time accord-
ing to appointment, to confer together on
important matters relating to our labors as
a Relief Society, and to give an account of
our hu[-]nble stewardships. Year by year we
are becoming better acquainted with each
other through these gatherings together,
and we are obtaining a knowledge of the
position we occupy, and learning to fill it
more and more creditably. Nothing else
could have effected the good that has been
done through the labors of the sisters in
these organizations. We are gradually en-
larging our sphere of usefulness, as we de
velop our capabilities. In coming together
we are of mutual benefit to each other in
interchanging our ideas, and we learn to
love each other, and we strengthen each
other's faith; we come here not to report
individual labors. but to report the general
condition of the societies. It seems to me
it would be well to report the spiritual con-
dition as well as financial, the amount of
work done, the number of meetings held,
what kind of meetings, whether testimony,
teachers', or working meetings, and the ag-
gregate number of attendance; the names
of Assistant Secretaries and Treasurers,
also Presidents of Teachers, should be given
in the report with the number of Teachers.
Sister Eliza has told us many times the
important duty of the Teachers, in visiting
among the Saints; it is a holy calling, and
a responsible place to fill. The Scriptures
say, "Pure religion and undefiled before
God and the Father, is to visit the widow
and the fatherless," etc. We should take
especial pains to conduct ourselves in such
a manner as to ensure the re[-]pect and confi-
dence of each other, and be ever helpful
and considerate of each other's feelings,
and hold sacred each other's characters; we
want to become efficient, practical and ex-
perienced workers, helps to the brethren,
helps to the priesthood; we, my sisters, are
the pioneer workers in these institutions,
laying the foundation, for if the prophecies
of ancient and modern prophets are fulfilled,
our young women will eventually be called
to fill high positions in connection with the
young brethren in this Church. A great
deal has already been done in taking care
of the poor, in donating to Temples, in
storing up grain; President Young had
great confidence in the sisters labors.	*	*
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards: "I always feel hap-
py to sit and listen, yet I have ever a testi-
mony to bear, and when the Lord assists
us we can do anything.	*	*	I have been 

[Column 3]
thinking of the first of the Stake organiza-
tions, when President Young first said we
were to have Quarterly meetings, I was
astonished, it almost made me stagger; the
idea of the sisters having a Conference;
but we have accomplished some little, and
it has been of benefit, no matter what our
duties are, if the Lord helps us we will be
successful. Our daughters will be able to
do much more than we have done; a good
many of us have been pushed here and
there, persecuted and driven, our opportu-
nities have been scanty, and we could not
do as we would, traveling from place to
place; but now we are prospering here,
and our children are having many advan-
tages, and the Lord requires us to speak of
his goodness and talk of his blessings.
Some think there is no necessity for Relief
Societies—some of our good brethren even
would rather their wives would not attend,
think their only duty lies at home; but I
am sure we feel happier and better, and can
do more work and do it better, when we at-
tend our meetings. We can all do some-
thing to help; I am willing in my weak
way to do whatever I am called upon to
do."
	Mrs. Marinda Hyde: "I am pleased and
happy to see the progression of our sisters;
the work we are engaged in is true. I be-
longed to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.	*
I appreciate the teachings and suggestions
that we have heard here to-day; there are
many useful things we can impart to each
other, and we realize our efforts are not in
vain. I am thankful I have lived to see
this day, and I pray God to bless you all."
	Elder O. F. Whitney: "I feel rather lone-
some among so many ladies, the only one
of my sex here. I do not know what I
can say, but hope it will be a benefit to us
all. This is the second woman's congress I
have ever attended (if I may call this a
congress, and I think I may with propri-
ety); the first was in Cleveland, Ohio, last
year. I feel that there is a different spirit
here from what there was there, though the
speakers were ladies of education aud cul-
tivation, but the tendency was to sarcasm
and witticism, all reflecting upon the other
sex, and to create a laugh; but the spirit
here to-day inculcates peace, and will culti-
vate love and good feeling, and you have
had good counsel given to young ladies,
and I know the same will apply to the
young men. I know my mother's instruc-
tions to me have many times saved me
from doing wrong, but it was directed by
the Spirit of God. To educate children in
the right way is just as necessary as any-
thing we can do, and mothers have more
the responsibility of this than the fathers.
Every good man is interested in this work;
I feel you are doing a good work; you have
my faith and I pray God to bless you."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne: "I would like the
Secretaries to send in their next Quarterly
reports a week before the Conference; send
them directed to the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT."
	It was then moved and seconded that
the Conference adjourn until Saturday,
Sept. 21st, at 10 o'clock a. m. at the same
place. Singing by the choir. Prayer by
Elder O. F. Whitney.
			E. HOWARD, Secretary.


Washing Colored Fabrics: Previous to wash-
ing calicoes and ginghams, soak them in water
with ox gall; the quantity, one tablespoonful to a
gallon of water. Vinegar in the rinsing water for
pink and green heightens the colors, and soda an-
swers the same purpose for purple and blue.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
OBEDIENCE TO PRINCIPLE.
Oh, may the Lord inspire our hearts.
Help us to yield to His decree;
His Spirit now to us impart,
That we obedient may be.

The time will come when we'll rejoice.
Though p'raps with sorrow now bowed down:
Oh, listen to the still, small voice,
The conqueror shall wear a crown.

Then surely, sisters, we'll not shrink
From what our Father says is pure;
Oh, let us now begin to think
How great our joy, if we endure.

If we are faithful, we shall stand
With those who've nobly borne the cross
If we oppose, we'll understand
To disobey will be our loss.

Then; sisters, let us lift our hearts
To God, who hears and answers prayer:
Call on His name, trust in His grace,
That we the victor's crown may wear.
							    EMMA MORRIS


TENNYSON'S HOPE OF THE FUTURE.

	"The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink
	Together, dwarfed or God-like, bond or free.
	If she be small, slight-natured, miserable,
	How shall men grow? But work no more alone,
	Let man be mo[-]e of woman, she of man;
	He gain in sweetness and in moral hight,
	Nor lose the wr[-]stling thews that throw the world;
	She mental breadth, nor fail in childward care,
	Nor lose the childlike in the larger mind;
	Till at the last she set herself to man,
	Like perfect music unto noble words;
	And so these twain, upon the skirts of time,
	Sit side by side, full-summed in all their powers,
	Dispensing har[-]ests, sowing the to-be.
	Self-reverent each and reverencing each.
	Distinct in individualities,
	But like each other, even as those who love,
	Then reign the world's great bridals chaste and calm;
	Then springs the crowning race of human kind.
	May these things be."
—Tennyson's "The Princess."
—SELECTED.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
				SCANDAL.

	I feel impressed to write a few words on
scandal, which I hope will not be amiss. It
seems to be prevalent among Saints, as
well as sinners, to speak evil of one another.
And the question arises in my mind, Why
is it so? Why do we take pleasure in cir-
culating evil reports about our fellow crea-
tures? Are we not so constituted as to be
able to enjoy life while we see others happy?
Does their happiness and good reputation
hinder us from enjoying the same blessing?
Why do we allow envy to rise and rule
over our better natures, and seek to destroy
the character of a brother or sister? If
they have weaknesses, are we free from
faults? Are we not the children of the
same Heavenly Father, and striving to
reach the same heaven, the same glory and
exaltation? Why do we seek continually
to pull down and destroy the works of our
Maker? Is it not more noble to build up,
and spread peace and joy, comfort and hap-
piness, and strengthen the hearts of those
around us? Are they not human, and sus-
ceptible of joy and sorrow? Why do we
not observe the commandments of our Sa-
vior, and put on charity as a mantle, and
extend it to our neighbors? The revela-
tions say, "Without charity our righteous-
ness will profit us nothing." Charity cov-
ereth a multitude of sins. And if the
Lord, being perfect, can forgive us, how
much more necessary is it for us to forgive
each other, and hear with each other's

[Column 2]
weaknessas. We should observe the "Gold-
en Rule" and do as we would like to be
done by. We have a promise that the
measure we mete out shall be measured
back to us again.
	We may try to fool ourselves into the be-
lief that evil is not in our hearts, and we
may succeed in making others believe the
same, because of our smooth way of work-
ing, but the effect is the same. We should
not smooth the brow with one hand and-
undermine with the other. People may
not understand the workings of both
hands, but God sees all and knows the in-
tents of the heart, and will repay us in his
own time. We may sail along with flying
colors for a time, and feel secure in our
course, but the promise is sure and we will
reap our reward.
	Then let us examine our hearts before it
is too late, and cast from our mind all jeal-
ousies and envious feelings, and seek to
build up, and not magnify the faults of
others, but speak the best of all; comfort
and console, and prove ourselves blessings
in very deed. In blessing others we bless
ourselves, and it is the only road to true
happiness.
	There are none of us so very happy and
independent that we can dispense with
each other's help and sympathy. How
much unhappiness has been caused by evil
speaking; how much suffering for the want
of charity; how much evil is wrought un-
der the cloak of friendship. An open,
avowed enemy is preferable to a smooth-
tongued, deceitful friend. The first cannot
do one-half the injury that the other can.
We might say, the Lord deliver us from
our professed friends, and we have not
much to fear from our enemies.
	Slander should be done away with among
those professing to be Saints. It is an evil
that few, if any, are exempt from. It cre-
ates prejudice, and I believe it causes more
trouble than anything else. It makes peo-
ple feel as though they were guilty, by
its powerful depressing influence, when
they are not. Now, I would exhort all to
cease, or put away this evil, and not con-
demn in others what we justify ourselves
in doing. Let us cultivate love towards each
other, and turn our attentions and abilities
in doing something useful, that we may
earn a blessing, instead of a cursing. It
may be necessary that offences come, "but
woe to them by whom they come." These
are the words of the Savior; let us beware.
	There is enough good work to be done
to keep all busy, and none need to infringe,
or crowd, upon another. Our motto should
be "live and let live." There should be
happiness enough for all. There is no need
of one's trying to monopolize—stepping on
somebody else in order to be the highest.
We can never build ourselves up on anoth-
er's ruin; it must be done on true worth or
not at all. Our Father in Heaven is just;
He is no respector of persons; one of His
children is just as precious in His eyes as
another, providing their works are as good.
The innocent will eventually triumph, and
the guilty be punished. These words
should sink deep into our hearts, for there
is much need of a reformation; more than
we are aware of. We know our own hearts
the least of any.					ENG.
	May 24, 1878.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

	SAVOIA, NEW MEXICO, June 4, 1878.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: feeling that a few lines from
this [-]ar-off place might be of interest to

[Column 2]
you, or some of the many readers of the
EXPONENT, I take pleasure in sending
them, believing it to be the duty of every
sister in Zion to assist, by some means, in
the great Latter-day work. Our paper is
still read with great interest. It seems to
me I could not do without it now.
	It is three months yesterday since we ar-
rived at our new home. There are four
families from Utah and two from Arkansas
living here at present; and notwithstand-
ing we are separated from many of our
dear friends in Utah, we feel quite con-
tented, realizing that it is in the provi-
dences of a merciful God that we have
been called to build up the waste places of
Zion, and are in the enjoyment of peace
here in a wild Indian country. The
valley is a very pretty one; the hills
on all sides are covered with large and
grand old pines, while there are many
flowers to add still another charm, and ren-
der the scene more picturesque. I will not
attempt description farther, leaving it for
some one more capable. We have seen
but few Navajoes, compared with the hun-
dreds by whom we are surrounded. Those
that have called to see us appear kind, and
some have expressed a desire to come and
live near us. Until recently the Indians
have been afraid of us, as we have all had
smallpox—the disease having been brought
here by some emigrants early in the win-
ter. The malady, in nearly every case,
proved to be of a very mild type. For this
we also give thanks to our Heavenly Fath-
er. However, the past winter has been a
very trying time to some. The whole
family affected at once. If we are favored
with rain we will probably raise our bread
and quite a variety of vegetables. The
weather is beautiful, and the health of all
generally good. We miss so much our
good meetings with the sisters that we
have been used to. It would be such a
glorious treat to see the kind faces of some
of our dear sisters, and hear their wise
counsels once more; yet we must be pa-
tient and wait, though as some poet has
written, "The waiting time is the hardest
time of all."
	Dear Sister Wells, how grieved I was to
learn that Emma was dead, and even now
it does not seem possible I shall never see
her again on this earth. I knew and loved
her for myself; I can never forget her kind
face the last time we met—so full of sym-
pathy. It was last fall at the Ogden depot;
I was in the waiting room, stopping until
the train for Salt Lake City started. In
my arms was my poor baby almost dying.
In my sorrows I should not have noticed
her, had she not recognized me, and with
her usual kindness come to try and soothe
the poor little suffering one. He died in
the city, and now Emma has gone. You
had many dear ones and I only one, yet
their Heavenly Parent claimed both yours
and mine; and if the pure are all together,
there we know that they are happier than
while here. I have a dear mother gone
too, and I could not ask for two gentler be-
ings to watch over my little one than my
mother and your departed Emma. For-
give me for writing thus, I had not thought
to do so. We know in whom we trust, and
that we are living for the future more than
the present. May God bless and comfort
you and all who are tried in this life. Our
reward is sure.
		Yours with respect,
			MARY STUART BURNHAM.


PUNCH once said "Men and women have
died of dig[-]ity"—he meant false dignity.


20		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	In the United States and Great Britain, the
women of this people are a popular subject of
conversation. What is said of them would,
we are told, make volumes were it written.
Domsetic drudges, ignorant, low and vulgar, is
the verdict passed upon them as a body. They
have no opinions, they are not in possession of
intelligence, isolated and kept in subjection,
required to fulfill only menial relations even
in marriage; these and a thousand other ab-
surdities are palmed off upon those who are
uninformed on the subject and are accepted as
genuine truths. Occasionally some person or
persons, are wise enough to investigate for
themselves while visiting Utah and not be put
off with somebody's "say so." But these cases
are so rare comparatively, that the general
public are not much enlightened on the sub-
ject. Some self-evident facts are now under-
stood concerning this people; because the con-
dition of the country has established them; it
was formerly known as a desert, it is now full
of flourishing towns, this is apparent; with
schools, manufactures, churches, railroads and
all the facilities for cultivation and improve-
ment. The Latter-day Saints are known as
the pioneers and motive power in these great
changes. Is it consistent to suppose that men
have accomplished so much towards beautify
ing and improving a country associated with
women of inferior calibre? No! The mothers,
wives and daughters have been and are, co-
workers in all these infinite and arduous under
takings. They have labored incessantly in
the interests of their famili[-]s, to use an elevat-
ing and refining influence; and that which
would tend to peace and good will. To-day
they occupy a position of which they may
justly be proud, notwithstanding all the as-
persions cast upon them.
	To be sure their educational opportunities
in the past, and the advantages of "so called
polite society," have not been such as wo-
men of the world have enjoyed, but shut up in
their mountain home, free from the evil influ-
ences which prevail to an alarming extent in
more densely populated and older communi-
ties, they have developed other capabilities
and powers of mind that have given them
strength of character and personal attributes
calculated to raise them in the scale of intel-
lect and intelligence, beyond those who spend
so much time and devote their precious God-
given talents to the frivolities and accom-
plishments of fashionable life, which all tend
to weaken instead of strengthening character.
	The peculiar exigencies, and experiences of
Mormon life have had a tendency to make wo-
men self-helpful, and self-reliant, and have
given them indomitable energy, and undaunt-

[Column 2]
ed courage, and these characteris[-]i[-]s prepare
them to use more discreetly any trust or confi-
dence reposed in them. They are fully aware
that any antagonism or defiance towards men,
would hinder instead of helping them, that
both must co-operate together for the mutual
benefit of all, for "woman is not without
man nor man without woman in the Lord,"
and they are engaged in the Lord's work. The
men of this community were anxious woman
should have the "franchise" believing it to be
just and right that she should have every op-
portunity to represent her own cause. The
many responsibilities placed upon the sisters of
this Church should awaken them to the neces-
sity of becoming conversant with the subject
of laws, governments, and the history of na-
tions past and present, in order that they may
use the ballot judiciously, and vote under-
standingly, as well as to maintain other privi-
liges and rights which they enjoy. One can
not be too well informed in regard to the laws
of nations and the relations of countries. No
woman should content herself with a simple
assertion from another, and feel she has no
time to read, or study and inform herself, or at-
tend the meetings held among the sisters for
general instruction. By prudently economiz-
ing time, every woman in the enjoyment of
average health, whatever her domestic cares
may be, can find some time for personal
culture, and it will promote health and happi-
ness both. A better knowledge of one's self,
of the relations of individuals to each other,
and their duty to God, with fervent faith in
His holy Gospel, will fit man and woman for
the truest enjoyment These attainments can
never be reached by sitting idly down and
waiting, they demand diligent and constant
action, and a rightful exercise of all the facul-
ties of one's nature.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN THE issue of EXPONENT June 1st, the re-
port of sericulture at Rockville should have
stated five ounces of silk worm [-]ggs instead of
dozen and instead of silk-worms for sale, it
should read silk worm eggs.

	LETTERS, ESSAYS, Relief Society Reports,
and other items laid over until another is[-]ue.
The Qua[-]erly Conference occupies considera-
ble space but we feel that it is [-]ssential to be
particular in publishing these minutes for the
benefit of the country societies.

	MOST OF the Sunday Schools of the different
wards in the city have been recreating and rus-
ticating in the rural gardens in the vicinity, of
late, giving the children a fine opportunity for
a day's pleasure in the open air, with a variety
of amusements to add to their enjoyment.

	IN COMPANY with Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs.
S. M. Heywood and Mrs. B. W. Smith, we vis-
ited the Relief Society at Mill Creek, and Su-
gar House Ward on Tuesday June 25th. Ex-
cellent meetings at both places with a full at-
tendance of men as well as women. The sis-
ters are [-]ec[-]ming more and more alive to the
exigencies of the times and encouraging home
indus[-]ries, storing gr[-]in and all good works.

	THE ROYAL Baker, a pamphlet compiled by
the New York Cooking School, will give you
directions for making every variety of b[-]ead,
griddle cakes, puffs, muffins, waf[-]les, tea-bis-
cuits, buns, crackers, toasts, pastry, pies and
puddings, dumplings, fritters and pancakes,
meat pies etc; it contains 304 recipes how to
make the different kinds of ar[-]icles mentioned.
It would be valuable to housekeepers as refer-
ence.—Price 10 cts.

[Column 2]
	THE TABERNACLE Choir will give a con-
cert in the Tabernacle on the Fourth of July,
under the supervision of Mr. Careless, leader of
the Choir, whose well known talent for direct-
ing and arranging will give it popularity. Mrs.
L. Careless, Miss S. E. Olsen, Messrs. B. B.
Young, Mark Croxall, J. J. Daynes and other
vocal and instrumental performers will take
part in the performance. The proceeds are to 
be donated towards the building of the N[-]w
Tabernacle.

	MISS DORAH H. Byron, of London, England,
a lady traveling for pleasure, made us a s[-]ci[-]l
call on Monday June 24, to see and hear some-
thing of Mormons and Mormonism. Miss By-
ron has been making a tour of the United
States and Canada, has heard much said
against our people, especially the condition of
our women; she evidently intends to see a[-]d
hear for herself. She is interested in the wo-
man's movement, and expresses herself as [-]e-
ing astonished to see so much good being
done by Mormon women.

	ELDER J. F. WELLS, Pres't. of the Central
Committee of the Y. M. M. I. A., and Elder
M. H. Hardy, his Counselor, are about to start
on a tour into the country in the interest of
the young peoples' As[-]ociations. They will in-
terest themselves specially in seeking to ad-
vance the spiritual and educational interests of
the territory. They will visit Morgan, Sum-
mit, Rich and Bear Lake Counties, returning
by way of Cache, Box Elder, Weber and Davis
Counties, making it a point to meet with all
the As[-]ocia[-]ions wherever practicable. God
speed and bless them in their efforts for culture
and higher development among the young
p[-]ople.

	ON MONDAY, at 12 o'clock, June 10, we went
in company with Miss E. R Snow, to the
United States Court-room, with Sister Annie
Musser who desired to procure her s[-]cond nat-
uralization papers. We found it to be a very
easy matter to accomplish, and nothing un-
pleasant whatever connected with it, and
would adv[-]se all, the sisters who have not yet
become citizens to make no delay whatever, and
"go and do likewise." There are many good
and s[-]fficient reasons why women should be-
come naturalized as well as men, and our sis-
ters should comprehend it. To all the sisters
who have not do[-]e so we would urge upon
them the propriety of attending to it while
there is so good an opportunity.

	MISS ELIZA R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D.
Young are making a tour in the interest of the 
Relief S[-]c[-]eties and Retrenchment Associations
through portions of Utah, Juab and Sanpete
Counties. They left Salt Lake City on Mon-
day morning June 17, held a meeting at Amer-
ican Fork at 2 o'clock p. m. the same day, and 
again in the evening, at Pleasant G[-]ove on
Tuesday, at Mona on Wednesday, at Nephi on
Thursday, and from thence proceeded to Foun-
tain Green in Sanpete Co. The meetings at
all points were numerously attended and much
interest awakened on the subjects of home-in-
du[-]tries, especially seri-culture, also storing
grain, and other departments of labor among
the sisters.

	SISTER VIENNA Jaques who resides in the
12th Ward of this city, and whose name is
mentioned in one of the revelations in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, was ninety-
one years old on Monday June 10. The next
day she accompanied the Old Folks Excursion
to Ogden. She is in excellent health and feel-
as if she might yet live many years. She
lives entirely alone, never having had any


[Column 1]

family, does all her own housework, including
washing, ironing and cooking, writes many
letters, and does a great deal of reading. Sis-
ter Vienna is very familiar with the Scritpures.
This last Spring she has made sixty-one
pounds of butter, and milked her own cow.
Vienna Jaques was born at Beverly, Mass.,
but resided in Boston when she received the
Gospel. She went up to Kirtland in 1831,
stayed six weeks, and was baptized while
there, she sent money up to Mo. to buy land
at that time. She returned home to Boston,
settled up her business, and went back to
Kirtland to unite her interests forever with
the Church. She was in Missouri, and Nau-
voo, and has shared in many of the persecu-
tions of the saints. She was formerly a Metho-
dist and had received what they term sanctifi-
cation previous to embracing Mormonism. She
is strong and full of faith in the principles of
the Gospel.
	THE FIFTEENTH Ward Relief Society gave
a Strawberry Festival on Friday evening June
21, which was a very pleasant affair. It was a
social reunion of the officers and members with
their husbands, brothers, fathers and the Bish-
op of the Ward. We were present by invita-
tion. It was conducted in a very pleasing
manner by Mrs. S. M. Kimball, President of
the Society, and her assistants in office. The
company were regaled with delicious straw-
berries and cream-cake and lemonade. The
party met in the upper room of the Relief So-
ciety Hall, the lower part of which is occupied
by the Ward Store, rented for the benefit of
the Society. There are also two adjoining
rooms in the building in which they have
opened a Commission Store, and hope to secure
sufficient patronage to make it a success. They
have a great variety of fancy articles made by
the ladies of the Ward, ladies under-clothing,
childrens clothing, etc. The object is to fur-
nish employment for some of the poor sisters
and also be able to do something remunera-
tive to aid the Society in the way of funds.
Under the able and efficient management of
the President, the Society have accomplished
the building of a substantial rock granary in
which they have some grain stored, and a
good prospect for more the coming season.
The entertainment was an informal one, most-
ly devoted to conversation, a few speeches and
songs helped to make a variety. Closed with
prayer about 2 o'clock, and the company dis-
persed. Such social meetings will promote a
general good feeling and no doubt be of mutu-
al benefit. 
	MISS M. E. Cook's Graded School in the
Social Hall, closed for the Summer vacation
Thursday afternoon, June 20, with a variety of
exercises by the pupils in form of an entertain-
ment. Quite a number of visitors were pres-
ent; songs, music, recitations and dialogues,
filled up the programme. The children ren-
dered their several parts very creditably. Presi
dent John Taylor was present and made some
appropriate remarks, expressing his pleasure at
seeing the desire for improvement which was
apparent; congratulated Miss Cook on the suc-
cess she had achieved, and alluded in general
terms to the education of the young people of
Utah, the cultivation of their manners and
all that tends to refinement and progression.
We were pleased to see among the visitors
Apostles Wilford Woodruff, Daniel H. Wells,
Joseph F. Smith, also Elder O. F. Riggs and
Bishop George Dunford. It is always gratifying
to both teachers and students to see an interest
manifested in their endeavors to obtain knowl-
edge, and children need encouragement in the

[Column 2]

pursuit of learning as well as in other labors.
The Latter-day Saints desire to see their child-
ren stand high in morality and education, and
to be intelligently so, great care must be ta-
ken in their early training. Many people are
too careless of the discipline of their children
and entrust them to teachers who are not qual-
ified spiritually to exercise the highest influ-
ence over them for good. It is essential that par-
ents should be wise in this matter for the fu-
ture good of Israel. Miss Cook has certainly
done a noble work during her residence in
Utah, in the interest of education: she is thor-
ough in her system and has prepared many
young ladies well for practical work as teach-
ers, giving several an opportunity to assist her,
and thus having the benefit of her supervis-
ion and suggestions, to fit them better for oth-
er spheres of labor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		21


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	LYDIA PARTRIDGE, widow of Edward Part-
ridge, died on the 9th of June at 7, p. m., at
Oak City, Millard Co., and was buried at Fill-
more on the 11th. She was the daughter of
Joseph Clisbee and Merriam Howe, and was
born at Marlboro, Middlesex County, Mass., on
the 26th of Sept. 1793. Her mother dying
when she was about twenty-two years of age,
the family was broken up, she with one broth-
er and sister went to Ohio, where she became
acquainted with and was subsequently mar-
ried to Edward Partridge in the year 1819, who
was a batter by trade and carried on quite a
successful business at Painsville. They were
believers in the doctrine taught by Alexander
Campbell, and were identified with an organ-
ization raised up by Sidney Rigdon; at that
time they were in prosperous circumstances.
She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints, by Parley P. Pratt
in 1830, and her husband being called by reve-
lation to be a Bishop and locate in Jackson
County, Mo., Sister Partridge was left alone
with the care of a large family of small
children, and afterward performed the
journey with her children, which, to her,
in those days without the protecting care
of her husband, was a heroic under-
taking. The Bishop was required to devote
himself to the duties of his office, and his
property being used up, they were brought in-
to straightened circumstances. Through the
persecutions of Missouri, Sister Partridge was
compelled to make the journey to Nauvoo,
with her children without her husband. To
repeat the scenes passed through, the priva-
tions endured during their residence in Mis-
souri, and the exodus therefrom, would be un-
necessary as they have become matters of his-
tory. In Nauvoo Bishop Partridge died, and
there she also buried a daughter. Sometime
after she was married to Father William Hunt-
ingdon, whose wife had also died in Nauvoo.
They left Nauvoo with the first companies in
the exodus in Feb., 1846 crossing the river on
the ice with teams and wagons. At Mount
Pisg[-]h, on the route West, Father Hunting-
don was appointed to preside over those who
stayed there to raise a crop, and come on the
next season, but he was taken sick and died.
In the Spring of 1847, Mother Partridge and 
family, moved to Winter Quarters on the Mis-
souri river, and afterwards came to Salt Lake
Valley with Pres. Brigham Young's company,
in 1848.
	"Although their property was sacrificed in
becoming identified with the "Mormons," and
her husband had labored for the people and
had worn himself out in the cause, yet Moth-

[Column 2]
er Partridge was always loth to ask for assist-
ance, and labored diligently to support herself
and family, and was always found earning
something. She was exemplary in her daily
life, and was never known to be aught else
than a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, and
it is not known that she had a personal enemy.
In disposition she was quiet and unassuming,
and her good works were performed without
ostentation, but from an innate love of the
right, and the natural kindness of her heart.
Having been identified with the Church al-
most from the commencement, she was inti-
mately acquainted with a great many of the
Latter-day Saints who will ever think of her
with kindly and pleasing remembrance."
	Mother Partridge leaves a great number of
children, grand-children and some great grand-
children. Her only living son Edward Part-
ridge, is well known in this Church. He re-
sides at Fillmore and is First Counselor to the
President of Millard Stake. Sister Partridge
was one of the oldest members in the Church,
a veteran indeed, who has fought valiantly in
the interests of the kingdom of God, and she
has now gone to join the hosts of the saints
behind the veil, to rest from earthly toil and
pain, and enter upon another sphere of useful-
ness.

	ONE OF the saddest and most distressing oc-
currences which have ever transpired in this
Territory, took place Saturday last, June 22, in
Sanpete Co. A party of young folks and child-
ren went out upon a small lake not far from
Manti, in a boat. About one o'clock a terri-
ble gale swept over the lake, the party were
frightened, and rushed to the bow sinking and
capsizing the boat. Five from Ephraim and
six from Mayfield were drowned, only two
were saved clinging to the boat. It is said the
greatest exertions were made to save the par-
ties from drowning, men going out into the
water at the risk of their own lives. Names of
the drowned, as published in the Deseret
News.
	Oliver Oviatt, aged 22; Rosa Bella (his wife),
aged 16; Miss Nora Neilson, aged 9 years; Mas-
ter Jenson, son of Henry Jensen, aged 8; Miss
Williams, daughter of Jno. Williams, aged
10 years; Miss Stevens, daughter of Joseph
Stevens, aged 10 years, all of Mayfield.
	OF Ephraim.—Chas. Christiansen, aged 19;
Miss Anderson, daughter of Lars Anderson,
aged 16; Miss Bella Thompson, aged 11 years;
Miss Anderson, daughter of Je[-]s Anderson,
aged 11; Master Larsen, aged 9 years.


OBITUARIES.

						April 19th, 1878.
	MRS. MARY Annie Harris Bowen, the be-
loved wife of Bro. Lewis Bowen, aged sixty-
five years. She was baptized in the Abersy-
chan branch of the Herefordshire Conference
in 1853, and emigrated to Utah in 18[--]. She
was the mother of twelve children, seven of
whom are living, six sons, and one daughter.
The home of Bro. Bowen in Wales. was ever
open to the Elders on missions, and in add-
tion to the care of a large family, Sister Bow-
en took great pleasure in administering to their
wants for the Gospel's sake. Her faith was
firm in this Latter-day work; she bore her
sickness with great calmness and serenity, and
fell asleep in the full hope of a glorious resur-
rection.							COM.

		KAYSVILLE, DAVIS CO. June 16, 1878.
	LYDIA WADE, the youngest daughter of
Robert and Emma Victoria Wade, died on
Sunday June 16th aged four months and nine-
teen days, the family was formerly from York.
[-]bire, England.—Millennial Star please copy.


22		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

				KANOSH, May 21st, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I believe the organization of the Y. L.
M. I. A. has never been published in your
interesting paper, and not wishing to be
more backward in a good cause than our
sisters in the neighboring settlements, I
will endeavor to give a correct report of
the organization of our Association, which
was effected Jan. 2nd, 1878, according to
the instructions previously given by Mrs.
Zina D. Young. A meeting was called by
the President of the Relief Society, Adelia
Kimball, several members of the society
were present, also Bishop King L. Leavitt,
G. R. Hakes, and several others of the
brethren who attended by invitation.
	The officers of the Improvement Associa-
tion were accepted as such by a unani-
mous vote of those present, and ordained
and set apart to fill their positions as fol-
lows:

	Emily A. Crane, President,
	Florence D. Leavitt,	}
	Alice Rappleye,		}
	Ann E. Leavitt,		}	Counselors.
	Mary Jane Abraham,	}
	Dianah Radford		}
	Jane Whatcott		}

	Arletta Hopkins,	} Secretaries.
	Thirza Lee,		}
	Salina Gay, Treasurer,
	Emily Barney, Superintendent.

	We publish a paper called the "Echo of
Union," our meetings are interesting and
well attended; we have certainly derived
much good therefrom, and there is a feel-
ing of love and unity among the young sis-
ters that was never experienced before the
existence of our Association, and we feel
to bless the happy day of its organization.
	Praying God to crown all our good de-
signs abundantly with success, I am your
sister,
					EMILY A. CRANE.

		FRANKLIN CITY, May 20, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Some time has elapsed since the readers
of your esteemed paper have heard from
this place. We are trying to do what we
can to build up Zion. We have had a very
pleasant visit from Sisters Eliza R. Sonw
and E. Davis. It is the first time that Sis-
ter Eliza ever came to this place, and we
feel thankful for the good instructions she
gave us. We held two meetings while
they were here, one with the Relief So-
ciety, and one with the young ladies in the
evening.
	Wishing the EXPONENT success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel,
								S. M.

			TOQUERVILLE, May, 29, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking a few lines from our Y. L. M.
I. Association would be interesting to your
many readers, I venture a brief report; we
have thirty-six members enrolled, and have
a very good attendance; we meet weekly;
semi-monthly for working, and semi-
monthly for instruction, and edit a paper
entitled "The Young Ladies' Advocate."
Our former President was called away to
Arizona, and Mrs. Sarah Ann Spilsbury
was appointed as President. We held our
annual meeting April 18th and after the
usual exercises the report for the last year

[Column 2]
was read, showing creditable marks of in-
dustry. We quilted a quilt and prepared
some straw for braiding, and made a
couple of tidies, and had a picnic during
the day, and at night gave a ball for the
benefit of the Association; the evening was
a most enjoyable one, the time was spent in
dancing and a dialogue was recited by
fourteen of the young ladies, we also had
singing. We have a quantity of straw and
purpose making all our own hats this sea-
son, and also various kinds of embroidery.
We, in unison with the daughters of Zion,
take sincere pleasure in reading the EXPO-
NENT, and gratefully acknowledge the ben-
efit we derive from its pages. May success
attend its efforts to advance the cause of
righteousness, is the desire of your sisters.
		SARAH ANN SPILSBURY, Pres't.
		ELIZABETH M. KLIENMAN, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I must send you a few lines about our so-
cieties as there has been no report of late.
Our Relief Society is in a flourishing con-
dition, a good spirit prevails, and our breth-
ren take quite an interest in our welfare,
visiting our meetings each month. Money
is scarce at this place, but we do the best
we can under the circumstances. The
young ladies' Association is also in a good
condition; they meet with the young men's
Society every Sunday evening at 5 o'clock,
and take turns in presiding; many of the
elderly brethren and sisters also meet with
them. I think these societies are the best
institutions that could be established for
the improvement of both young and old; I
myself am very much intere[-]ted in them.
Everything is looking splendid in Tooele,
we have had such beautiful rains. If things
turn out as the present prospects indicate,
we will have an abundant harvest this sea-
son; and I hope we will be able to lay up
more wheat in the granary than we did last
year. Our President has been reminding
the sisters that election day is drawing
near and to be prepared for the same. The
EXPONENT is a welcome messenger to all
who take it.
	May God bless us in all our efforts in do-
ing good, is the prayer of your humble sis-
ter,
						ANN TATE.

		WEST PORTAGE, May 16, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	Feeling interested in the work the so-
cieties are doing to assist in the establish-
ment of the kingdom of God, I venture to
write you a brief report of our progress in
this part of the Lord's vineyard. Our So-
ciety have done a little towards carrying
out the counsel of our departed President
Brigham Young. We have in store about
twenty bushels of wheat, notwithstanding
the destructive proclivities of the grass-
hoppers in taking our entire crop of which
our depleted granaries bear evidence. But
we hope through the blessing of God to be
more successful this season as we have a
brighter prospect for raising grain, and the
sisters mean to prove their faith by their
work in the harvest field.
	On Saturday, May 4th, our beloved Sis-
ter E. R. Snow, and E. Davis, held three
meetings with us. At 10, a. m., Sister
Snow spoke on the practical duties of our
holy religion, by sustaining home-indus-
tries, seri-culture, etc. Mrs. Davis testified
to the truth of Miss Snow's remarks and
encouraged the Saints to sustain the EXPO-
NENT, and all Church works which would

[Column 3]
prove a lasting benefit to them. At 2
o'clock, p. m., Miss Snow addressed the Y.
L. M. I. Association on the necessity of
spiritual instruction to obtain a correct idea
of our Father and God, and their responsi-
bilities, teach them to become good house-
keepers, and such home instructions as are
suitable for the young to learn. Mrs. Davis
said she perceived by the minutes which
were read that the young sisters had made
great improvement since their organiza-
tion. At 7 o'clock, p. m. the sisters ad-
dressed the Young Mens and Young La-
dies Associations on the subject of Celes-
tial Marriage, moral and spiritual culture,
and refinement necessary for the society of
holy beings.
	On Tuesday evening, they held another
meeting; an attentive audience listened to
Miss Snow's touching appeal to live pure
and virtuous lives; a great portion of the
Holy Spirit rested upon both speaker and
hearers, and the instruction was replete
with counsel and blessings to the Saints,
and a warning to the lukewarm.
			LUCINDA HOSKINS, Pres't.
			JANET HEATON, Sec'y.

		SOUTH JORDAN, May 22nd, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters in this ward feel desirous to
do all in their power for the furtherance of
this great and glorious work, and in carry-
ing out the instructions of our late beloved
President in storing grain. We have on
hand one hundred bushels of wheat, one
hundred and thirty-six head of sheep, and
two shares in the West Jordan Woolen fac-
tory. We are trying to do all we can to
build Temples and to build up the kingdom
of God. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly when the teachers give in their
reports; these meetings are well attended,
and the members seem desirous to do all
the good they can; we desire to improve
our talents and prepare ourselves for use-
fulness in obedience to the commandments
of God, for the building up of his kingdom,
and promoting the welfare of Zion.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
which we consider a blessing to all the sis-
ters of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, we remain your sisters in
the Gospel.

		Ann Holt, President,
		Emily G. Beckstead,	}	Counselors.
		Emeline Bills,		}
		Susan A. Blake, Secretary,
		Ellen Vincent, Treasurer.
	Report of the financial condition of the
Payson Relief Society, May 29, 1878.
Total amount received since last
	report....................................$227 45 ½
Disbursed since last report........  167 34
The Society owns property as follows:
One city lot, improved................$125 00
Six city lots, less improved.........   280 00
One share in Parent Co op Store 250 00
One share in Dairy Association..    34 72
One share in Branch Co-op.........   41 15
Cash...............................................    12 60
Miscellaneous Property............... 142 77
134 bushels of Wheat.................. 100 50
	work entitled "Women of Mor-
	mondon"................................   20 00
							   ———
			Total			   781 74
				M. A. HARDY, Secretary.


EAST BOUNTIFUL, May 17, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies' Improvement Asso-
ciation was re-organized February 19, 1878,
by Bishop Chester Call and his counsel,
Mrs. Elizabeth H. Barlow, President of the
Relief Society, and her counselors; officers
as follows:
	Nancy Willey, President.
	Jane Holt, Vice President,
	Mary A. Call,
	Eliza Dalrymple,
	Regina Stoker,		Counselors,
	Sarah C. Sessions,
	Mary Willey,
	Jane A. Hale,
	Alice J. Call, Secretary,
	Huldah Stoddard, Assistant Secretary,
	Mary Woolstenholme, Treasurer.
	The Society numbers seventy-two mem-
bers, including officers. Meetings are held
every two weeks; the exercises consist of
lectures and readings from the Church
works, and testimonies. We have a maga-
zine, entitled "The Young Ladies' Com-
panion," which is issued monthly. We
are striving to do our best in this great
and glorious work in which we are engaged;
hoping that we may continue faithful to
the end, I remain,
	Yours very respectfully,
		ALICE JEANNETTE CALL,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN AND HER OPPORTUNITIES.

    An hours' reading each day in some use-
ful book, helps prepare a woman for future
works and lifts her out of a daily routine of
housework, where there is a family to be
attended to.  It is time to rise above the
pressure and hurry of a life of drudgery,
time for woman to show more self-reliance,
time to break away from false customs that
are destroying true womanhood.  To be
able to comprehend largely and see things
in their true sense is one of the results of
education. Self-culture is necessary for our
improvement; it teaches us to know more
of ourselves, ahd thus to know more of
others. There are many ways in which a
woman can develop the powers which the
Father has endowed her with.  It has been
truly said, "educate the mother and you
will elevate the children."  There is a vast
field of labor for woman; her capabilities
were not given her to lie dormant, but to 
be employed in acquiring knowledge and
becoming cultivated.  A true lady will re-
gard the rights and feelings of others, and
it is no mark of a lady or gentleman to be
uncouth or indifferent to another's feelings
or welfare; politeness ought to be made a
habit.  Mothers should set examples of
this before their children; it is vain to look
for a noble character without some cultiva-
tion; and the foundation should be laid in
early life. 
	There is no branch of education that wo-
man may not undertake, but all should be
taught the benefit of personal dignity, and
the need and utility of adapting them-
selves to the circumstances in which they
are placed.  Seek to show yourselves true
to the nature you possess, and sphere you
occupy, disciplined by culture and subject
to principle; these things are essential to
the highest glory of womanhood.  There
has been a great deal said about womens
rights, it is a subject that I feel interested
in, although I disagree with some of those
public lectures, and lecturers, yet there are
those who are inspired with a true desire
to elevate woman to a higher sphere, not by
destroying men's influence, but helping to
do what men have failed to see for the ad:
vantage of humanity.  Women may enter-
tain some ideas that may not be wholly
consistent, but let woman labor in her
sphere and not strive to do that which is
not appointed her to do.
 What are our future lives to be?  Just
what we qualify ourselves for.  The inter-
ests of any community would, I firmly be-
lieve, profit by the "franchise" being ex-
tended to women; every woman should es-
teem it a privilege and a duty to vote.
Women should have a good general educa-
tion which will give them an understand-
ing of the government of their country and
the right of suffrage.  If women were al-
lowed more of these privileges, they would
materially benefit society.  Men are calcu-
lated to lead out, and for this reason should
have sympathy for woman, instead of
crushing the germ implanted in her mind
by the Author of her being, for a noble
purpose.  Then why seek to rob woman
of the privilege assigned her in her crea-
tion,to be a helpmeet?  Why should she not
stand side by side with her brother in all
questions of interest.  Women often take
shelter in their weakness, and believe it is
right; whereas, if woman knew herself, her
soul is large enough for all her Maker in-
tended her for.  She controls, or ought to,
the elements of life, the germ of future
glory.  Shall we not urge woman to real-
ize her responsibility and influence, in the
manner natural to her nature?
We are pleased to note the growing de-
sire of women to live for something high-
er than daily drudgery, and the common
concerns of mere earthly existence.  God
has designed her to share with man the
glories of an exaltation.  The position she
occupies, if properly filled, is just as honor-
able as his; she cannot fill his place, he
cannot fulfill the duties which belong to
hers, therefore, there is no need of any-
quarrel as to who is the greatest.
MARY JANE CROSBY.
East Bountiful, June 14, 1878.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S ADVANCEMENT.

	From time immemorial woman has, to a
certain extent, been either the slave or pet
of men. Now some noble spirits are step-
ping on the platform of life, bearing free-
dom to women. Their strong desires and
fixed purposes are brought to bear on the
minds of their fellow-sisters; the noble
powers of woman, which have so long lain
dormant, are now awaking to new life, and
universally, almost, women realize they
are not slaves, or toys, but something no-
bler and better. The true woman is gentle
and refined, having those finer qualities
not so generally found among men. Yet
her intellect is as great, her aspirations as
lofty; she can amuse herself with the
frolics of children, or, if need be, she is
capable of governing nations. From the
same chaotic matter of which the Lord
formed man made He woman also, and as
he may be priest and king, she eventu-
ally may also be queen and priestess. The
curse is being removed from woman; man
will not long be permitted to wield an iron
sceptre over her, but will understand her
right position as companion and counselor.
Nowhere are women as a class treated with
the respect and equality that they are
among the Latter-day Saints. Here they
are the honored wives of good and intelli-
gent men, having no doubts of their hus-

[Column 2]

band's fidelity. Not so elsewhere, for as
pagan Greece had her educated COURTE-
SANS, who were publicly the favorites of
philosophers and statesmen, while the
wives and mothers were often but household
drudges, so in modern Christian nations
many of the wives and mothers are almost
ignored, while their husbands spend time
and money with the "Demimonde."
	Yet the great cry is these Mormon prac-
tice plurality of wives! Oh, how horrible!
Their women are honorable wives and
their children are legitimate. Oh, what a
dreadful state of society! Congress should
look into these matters they think; sensa-
tional newspapers are at work, and they
would have armies sent here to clear this
great social evil (plural marriage) from the 
face of the earth. These Mormons, say they
are a civil, industrious people, we would
like to live among them; they have built
up a flourishing Territory, but their morals
are so corrupt. Why do they not pattern
after us? we have only one wife. But they
do not tell what secret practices exist among
them, these are fashionable follies, and
respectable people have these small vices.
	Women have shown great executive
talent in all the departments of life. They
have governed nations as royally as kings.
They are the queens of song, and the mimic
stage, and the ministering angels to man-
kind. Men will yet learn of woman's ca-
pabilities, and that women have souls
which will shine forth in such brilliancy as
to enlighten their understanding, and cause
them to acknowledge women their equals.
	The lords of creation sneer at strong-
minded, intelligent women; they say they
lose that simplicity and modesty so attrac-
tive to man. But if you speak of marriage
to these wise beings, they shake their
heads, heave a sigh, and from their appear-
ance one would suppose they were about to
be involved in some great misfortune. They
will tell you they really cannot afford it,
the girls are so extravagant, they are such
frivolous and senseless creatures, not at all
like their grandmothers. True, many of
the young ladies are what are defined as
frivolous and senseless to a certain ex-
tent, and they are so because frivolous and
senseless men have formed the customs of
society and the laws that govern the world.
Let the mothers of Israel tell their daugh-
ters that they are designed fer a nobler pur-
pose than to be the mere pet, or drudge, of
any man. Place before them incentives to
become what women should be—intelligent,
refined, and capable beings. Teach them
to become true daughters, wives and moth-
ers in the noblest sense. That to be the
wife of an intelligent, worthy man, no
matter how many responsibilities he has
already assumed, is better than to be the
one wife of a licentious, non-believing mo-
nogamist The man that is worthy of the
name is the noblest of God's creation, the
head and chief, and by his side stands the
woman as his companion and counselor,
neither being perfect without the other.
	Such are those that carry the stamp of
nobility; those who have risked lives and
property to benefit their fellow-creatures,
those who respect and honor women; but
they are the few and not the many. Be-
fore the "franchise" was given to the wo-
men of Utah, the great cry was the bond-
age of the "Mormon" women. "Please,
Mr. Senator, can you not do something for
these poor, pale-faced, abused creatures?
Look into these matters, and free these de-
spised women from the hands of their per-
secutors." Now that the world know that
the bondage of the "Mormon" women is a


farce, the cry is, "Away with the franchise;
it gives these Mormon men too much pow-
er. Why some of them have a dozen
wives! Oh, what will become of the poor
innocent Gentiles in Utah?" Shall we,
then, allow ourselves to be disfranchised be-
cause some sleepy Senator refuses to listen
to the truth? Not silently; let the "Mor-
mon" women exert their utmost ingenuity
in their own defense; help those noble souls,
by faith and prayers earnest and fervent,
that are devoting time and energies to the
redemption of women. Let the power of
your wills be so strong that it will overrule
that unappreciative element of women's
rights in the National Congress, that when
the question is again discussed their con-
tortions may be something more than a
grin.
				M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	As a Society we are decidedly in a pros-
perous condition; we are increasing in faith
and confidence in each other and in the
Lord, for we know that He is at the helm
and not only hears, but also answers the
prayers of His children. We have proved
this of a surety, in thousands of instances:
during the past quarter two of our sisters
whose names have been enrolled since the
first, of our organization, have departed this
life, their labors are ended here, and they
are removed to a higher life of usefulness
and progression. When we think upon the
precious promises that belong to the faith-
ful, how necessary that we should strive
diligently while it is called day, that we
may secure enteral salvation.
	With kind love to yourself and the sis-
ters, we remain yours in the Covenant,
			MARY MEIKLEJOHN, Pres't.
			EMILY WARBURTON, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 10[-]9.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Good[-], knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
[-]econd South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also disease[-] of the throat and L[-]ngs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her sto[-]k of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Bu[-]ldings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the [-]3th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[-]rative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special [-]tudy has been given to Ob[-]terics, diseases of
Women and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
