VOL. 7. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 15, 1878. No. 8.


For the EXPONENT.
THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE 
CRADLE.

If the hand that rocks the cradle
	Is the hand that rocks the world;
And its banner bright, or sable,
	Is by that same hand unfurled;
If the weal or woe of nations,
	Ship of State is guarded still,
And we find in all life's stations
	Fruits of woman's mind and will,

What should be that hand, oh mother,
	If such power is in its hold?
Who should nerve that hand, oh brotherf
	God's great purpose to unfold?
Hearts that guard the baby sleeping,
	Faith and love the watchword theme,
That the gem within thy keeping,
	May retain its form divine.

And that tiny hands may ever
	Gather flowers most pure and fair;
Little feet may wander never,
	And be caught in evil snare.
That those hands may still reach higher,
	For those pearls of price untold;
That those feet may still draw nigher
	To that city paved with gold.

That same hand that rocks the cradle,
	Must be strong and brave and true,
And be ever wise and able,
	Life's great aim to hold in view.
Truth's fair fields are all unbounded,
	And its fruits most rich and rare;
Heighth and depth are all unsounded,
	And the "Pearl of Price" is there.

So each mother's soul must garner
	Wisdom, knwledge, purest, best;
Seek, in every nook and corner,
	Seeds whose harvest will be blest.
When the toil and ca[-]e is ended,
	And we never more may roam;
When with songs and praises blended,
	God will guide the "Harvest home."
Salt Lake City, Sept, 1878 HOPE.
<S.E. Russell>


For the EXPONENT.
THOUGHTS.

	Sitting on the porch of a beautiful house,
a little adopted child ran up the steps to
ask "ma" a question. He seemed perfectly
happy, and on learning his history, I
thought how much better his lot here
among the Saints of God, than to be brought
up in Babylon. The best his mother could
do for him, without coming into the church
herself, was to give her boy away to a Lat-
ter-day Saint. I came home, and all day
long the thought haunted me. Why could 
not places be established by our people in
the world to receive fondlings? Would it
not save many innocent lives, be a lasting
benefit to the children, and bring many
into the Church that would probably grow
up and never hear the sound of the ever-
lasting Gospel.
	To-day reading about the "Foundling
Home" in Chicago and the "Orphan Asy-
lum" in London, the same train of thought
again presented itself.
	Many parents are poor and as society ex-
ists now, would certainly far rather give
their children away into comfortable homes,
than to kill them to keep them from starv-
ing to death, which, I have heard, has been
done in Scotland. I do not believe a moth-
er would commit the terrible crime of in-
fanticide, unless she was insane, especially
if she knew a good, comfortable home was


provided for her babe. Orphan children
would not roam the street, fatherless and
motherless, but find new fathers and moth-
ers to care for them. We have enough and
to spare. In this Territory there is no need
of such institutions, but the world is white
for the harvest. 
				EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George, Aug. 1878.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE THIRD general meeting of the Uni-
ted Women's Societies of Germany will be
held this year at Wiesbaden, commencing
on October 2d.
	IN MUNICH lectures have been established
for the higher development of women. The
opening address was given by Dr. Francis
Von Holzendorff; it was very clear and
plain, pointing out that urgent necessity
requires a higher female education.—Ex.
	MANY OF the Eastern papers recognize
the fitness of having a woman-president
for Vassar College. The Orange (N. J.)
Journal recommends in the highest terms
Antoinette Brown Blackwell for that posi-
tion. She is a graduate of Oberlin in
classics and theology.
	SOME RUSSIAN ladies, who were study-
ing at Berlin, recently received a command
to return to St. Petersburg, and were then
accused of being members of a secret so-
ciety. Eight of the number were exiled
to Siberia and condemned to work in the
mines, and two were imprisoned. It is
said they belong to some of the best Rus-
sian families.—Ex.
	SIXTH CONGRESS OF WOMEN, 1878.—A
Sixth Congress of Women will be held at
Providence, R. I., October 9th, 10th and
11th, in Low's Opera House. Executive
session at 10 a. m. Public sessions at 2 and
7 p. m.
	At Evening session an admittance fee of
twenty-five cents will be charged.
	Entertainment during the sessions of
the Congress will be provided for officers
and speakers upon application to Miss Mary
E. Eddy, 32 Bradford Street, Providence.
		KATE N. DOGGET, President,
		MARY F. EASTNAN, Secretary.
	PRINCESS BISMARK has preserved all the
simplicity of her youth. She is a perfect
specimen, in the best sense of the word, of
the German Hausfrau (housewife). She is
very quiet, bears her honors as the most
natural thing in the world, holds fast by
the old friends of humbler days, and has
but one great object in life—to make her
husband and children happy. She cares
for them in a peaceful, motherly way; and
her serenity and patience, which have al-
ways secured for Bismarck a quiet home,
have certainly contributed to his success
through life. "She it is," he once said to a
friend, "who has made me what I am."
They have three children—Marie, Herbert
and William. Herbert is his father's pri-
vate secretary; William has studied for
the bar. Both will enter Parliament this
year.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	MADAME EMILE Durand, who is now
one of the literary celebrities of France,
writes under the nom de plume of "Henri
Greville." One of her efforts has just been
crowned by the Academy, and one or more
of her tales have been translated into all
the tongues of Europe. She is a comfort-
able looking lady of thirty-five, and a most
agreeable talker. In her varied experience
she has seen a good deal of the ups and
downs of life, but has now settled down, as
she says, "to making her three novels a
year." Her husband is the Paris corres-
pondent of a St. Petersburg paper, and a
painter.—Ex.
	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the Oregon
Sate Woman Suffrage Association was held
in Astoria, Aug. 7, Mrs. Abagail Scott
Duniway, editor of the "New North
West," presiding. The main questions un-
der discussion were Suffrage, Widows'
Rights, Ownership of Children. Mrs.
Duniway seems to have been quite satis-
fied with the success of the meeting. This
lady makes a call through her columns for
a special meeting of the O. S. W. S. A., to
be held at Salem, Oregon, Sept. 25th. She
invites the best speakers and essayists of
the State to be present and participate in
the deliberations. The Convention will
occupy three days and evenings. The con-
vention is called for the purpose of agitat-
ing woman's claims for political enfran-
chisement. Mrs. Duniway is an able lec-
turer and an indefatigable and earnest
worker in woman's advancement. She re-
cently delivered a memorial address to the
Constitutional Convention of Washington
Territory, in behalf of the suffrage for wo-
man, appealing to the members of the Con-
vention to incorporate Woman's S[-]ffrage
in the State Constitution under which they
seek admission into the UNION. The ad-
dress is well written—Mrs. D. makes use of
strong arguments in presenting woman's
claims, and appeals in eloquent language,
which must have made itself felt, coming
from the lips of an earnest woman, in be-
half of her sister-women.


FLOWERS.

	MINISTERS are not like Plato and Aristo-
tle, the originators of their own doctrines,
or the teachers of the doctrines of other
men, but simply the dispensers of the
truths which God has revealed.—Hodge.
	MORALITY without religion is only a
kind of dead reckoning; an endeavor to
find our place on a cloudy sea by measuring
the distance we have to run, but without
any observation of the heavenly bodies.—
Longfellow.
	THE pursuit of something for which we
are not fitted is fruitless; it fails to bring
either happiness or success. If one has
special tastes, or talents, she or he will find
most happiness and do the most real good
by cultivating such faculties, or gifts.-Emile.
	TRUE politeness in every-day life is a
charm that is always becoming. It smooths
out many a wrinkle in human life, it en-
riches the dwelling of the peasant and
gives tone to the home of the lowly.-Emile.


58		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Aug. 31, was one long to be re-
membered. Pres. M. I. Horne, after the
opening exercises and reading of minutes,
addressed the sisters, relating incidental
parts of her visit to the northern settle-
ments. She said the meetings had been
largely attended, and the brethren left
their harvest fields to come and hear the
sisters talk; there are many enegetic and
earnest sisters in the country places, desir-
ous of working in unison with the sisters
in Salt Lake in helping to store up grain,
promote home industries and all good
works.
	Coun. E. R. Snow followed, dwelling
more largely upon the organization of Pri-
mary Associations, and the great field of
work open for those who will move in this
matter; that in training the little ones,
teaching them true and correct principle,
we form characters for the Saints of God.
Blessed the sisters for their energy, said
she was proud of those who were taking
hold in earnest to help build up God's king-
dom. 
	Coun. Zina D. Young spoke upon home-
manufacture, and urged the sisters to do all
in their power to promote and sustain it:
felt that we were all capable of sowing
good seed in the hearts of those we meet
from time to time, if we would do so.
	Coun. P. Woodruff said we were privi-
leged in many respects above those in the
country, and should appreciate it. Spoke
upon diligence and faithfulness, and also
upon the importance of little things, usually
considered trifles.
	Mrs. S. M. Heywood’s remarks were
mostly upon the children, the movement
now in contemplation, which she believed
would result in good; felt that fathers as
well as mothers should be interested in this
matter.
	Mrs. E. A. Whitney then made some
good remarks, alluding to the prophecies
of the brethren in the early days of the
Church, and their fulfillment, which in
many instances had been literally verified
in our day. After closing her remarks, she
sang “A song of Zion,” which had a most
inspiring effect upon the entire audience.
	Coun. E. Howard referred to Sister Whit-
ney’s address as delightful, and recognized
through hearing it the need of a Saint of
God being humble and meek, for it was
such God would exalt. She thought those
who would take an interest in teaching and
instructing the children in these Primary
Associations would be greatly blessed.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball, after adding her
testimony to that of the other sisters in re-
gard to her interest in helping to educate
the little ones, morally and spiritually, in
the Primary Associations, and getting the
co-operation of the parents, said she wished
to mention the condition of Sister Whit-
ney. “Her days are almost numbered,
and it seemed as if a part of herself went
out in blessing us this afternoon, and I
asked myself if there was a reciprocity of
blessings for Sister Whitney. I think
there should be, and I feel to say God bless
Sister Whitney, comfort and cheer her
heart; may her pathway be made smooth,
and may honor and blessings be multiplied
on her head forever.” By request of Pres.
Horne, all the sisters present then rose to
their feet, Sister Kimball repeated the
blessings, and the whole congregation con-
firmed it by a hearty Amen.
	Coun. B. W. Smith said she felt the power
of the blessing of the sisters, and exhorted

[Column 2]
the sisters to prepare themselves for the
great day of the Lord’s coming.
	Pres. Horne made a few suitable closing
remarks.

	RICHMOND, Aug. 27th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We had a general time of rejoicing when
our worthy Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Davis
paid us a visit. They held two meetings
one in the afternoon for the Relief Society,
and in the evening for the Y. L. M. I. As-
sociation. They handed out to us many
choice instructions for our good. I trust
we may treasure them up in honest hearts;
we cannot help saying God bless and pros-
per thine handmaidens “oh Lord who
seek to do good all the day long.” Our an-
nual report was made on the 4th of June;
there was satisfaction among the sisters in
regard to it, although there had not been a
great deal accomplished; circumstances
known to the society accounted for the lit-
tle done. We have sought to do good in
our humble way, we have striven to do
what we have been called on to do, and
such is still our desire, and we ever pray
God to help us, and we desire the good will
of those whom the Lord has appointed to
lead us and all Israel. Notwithstanding
the storms of wind and rain we have a good
harvest; and our brethren are busy in the
field, and at the threshing machine. The
grasshoppers are not unmindful of us, and
are having a long visit. Quite a number
of young children have been laid away
this summer which has caused deep sor-
row in the hearts of their parents. “But
the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away
blessed be the name of the Lord.” We
are now having some delightful weather.
	I will now say good-bye as I fear to
weary you. Your excellent paper is very
welcome, and the good sisters of Richmond
desire to be remembered to the editor.
	Yours in the Gospel of Christ,
	ABIGAIL POND, President,
	BETSY BROWER, Sec’y.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The subject I have chosen to write upon
is of great importance, namely, OUR HOLY
RELIGION. This is truly a subject that
should engage our attention to a much
greater extent than it really does; we
should strive continually to live nearer our
God, to live in such a way as to merit His
approbation, that we may call down His
blessings upon us and have His Spirit with
us at all times; then will all things be easy
for us, nothing will be too hard for us to
perform, no trial too hard for us to endure,
for the Spirit of the Lord will sweeten the
bitter cup. He does not require anything
at our hands that we cannot perform, and
things that would seem to be great trials
we would then take pleasure in doing. My
dear sisters, let us rise above the frivolous
things of the world; and live so as to enjoy
the Spirit of God; then we will know what
true happiness is. There is nothing in this
world brings the joy and comfort that it
does to know that the course we pursue is
right and pleasing in the sight of our
Heavenly Father. We see this fully illus-
trated here in the UNITED ORDER every
day. The happy faces we meet bespeak
their trust in God, for we feel assured He
will bless and prosper us in all our efforts to
serve Him and keep His commands. We
have been truly blessed and prospered in
every proceeding since our commencement
here. It is very wonderful to see the vast


amount of labor that has been performed
by a few stalwart sons of Israel, in opening
up new farms, and building dwellings.
They built a saw mill first, and sawed lum-
ber to make the frame buildings. They
are now building a dining hall, 56 by 28,
with kitchen in the centre; when com-
pleted we expect to all eat at one table.
All is peace and union here, and all feel as
though they were brothers and sisters in-
deed.
	Some people seem to think it a great
trial to live in this way; I think it a great
pleasure to live so, and feel that we are do-
ing the will of our Father. He will surely
bless and prosper us in all our efforts to
serve Him and keep His commandments.
None of our number have fallen victims to
sickness or disease, we have been blessed
with health, while all around us they have
been called to mourn the loss of near and
dear friends. This I esteem as one of the
greatest blessings we could enjoy. The
Lord has great blessings in store for us, if
we will only live up to His laws and re-
quirements; if we do not there is no prom-
ise to us. Let us be up and doing while
the day lasts, for if we do not soon the
summer will be past, the harvest ended,
and our souls not saved. Now is the ac-
cepted time of the Lord; then let us take
hold with a united effort and help roll on
this work, and never be found fighting
against any of the principles of the Gospel.
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing
condition; our number is small, but through
the blessings of God we hope to do much
good. We have a great many kinds of
work under way, which, when, finished,
we expect to exchange for grain to lay up.
		Yours respectfully,
						M. T. WILCOX.
	Kingston, Piute Co., July 7, 1878.


﻿PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

SAN PEDRO RIVER, PIMA Co. ARIZONA,
						August 7, 1878.
DEAR SISTER:
	*	*	*	We lived in tents and wagons
for eighteen months, but we enjoyed excel-
lent health as a general thing, and we have
been blessed with the necessaries of life.
	The sisters of this place were organized
in a Relief Society on the 4th of April; we
are few in numbers, only eleven members.
We pieced one quilt, and a way was opened
to dispose of it; and we believe that if we
do the best we can the way will be opened
whereby we can do much good. We have
had to postpone our meetings the last three
times on account of sickness. There has
been more sickness during the last ten
months than in all the time before since we
left home. My oldest boy has got the chills
and fever, as have also several others of the
Colony, although this is a very pleasant
climate; the winters are so mild; we have
had considerable rain during the past month.
This location is much pleasanter than on
Salt River. There have been three chil-
dren born since we came here. We can
dispose of everything that can be raised,
if we get enough to part with. We have
put in large crops of wheat, barley, oats,
potatoes, onions, cabbages, &c., and the pros-
pects are good for a good crop. Eggs are
seventy-five cents per dozen, butter one
dollar a pound.
	We are surrounded with mining camps;
the nearest is twelve miles from here, and
men are passing all the time with plenty of
money. I like to receive letters from my
old associates; it is gratifying to hear from
the place that was our home so long.
	Your sister &c.,		SYRENA STEEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		59


[For the EXPONENT.
		HAVE COURAGE TO LIVE.

			BY MRS. M. J. TANNER

Have courage, dear sisters, have courage to live;
	Do each duty, and follow it well;
There is nothing to us can such happiness give
	As to know we've not faltered, nor fell.

It is cowards who shrink from the duties they owe,
	And pause on the highway of life,
And wish to lie down, without credit or crown,
	To cease from their labor and strife.

Have courage to toil, though your labors may show
	But little of profit, or gain:
There's a higher tribunal to judge us, we know,
	And give a reward for our pain.

Though life may be weary and sorrows may come,
	And hopes may be faded and crushed,
There's a light in the sky that will brighten the gloom,
	When the voice of mourning is hushed.

Have courage, dear sisters, to fight the good fight,
	That thy crown may be honestly won;
Look not, in the strife, to the left or the right,
	But gallantly press your way on.

There are laurels awaiting the good and the true,
	And our motto forever should be
Not to dally, or falter, but lay on the altar
	Our incense and offerings free.

	If our lives were all bright, and our hearts always gay,
	No credit nor honor were due,
If our steps did not weary, nor lag by the way,
	But hopefully carried us through.

Have courage to live 'till thy labors are done,
	And the toil of thy life shall be blest;
With a life rightly spent and a victory won,
	We shall enter a haven of rest.

	Provo, Aug., 1878.


PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL CONVEN-
				TION.

	HEADQUARTERS PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL
		CENTRAL COMMITTEE,
				Salt Lake City, Utah,
						Sept. 10, 1878.

	A people's territorial convention, com-
posed of delegates from the several coun-
ties, will convene at the City Hall, Salt
Lake City, on Monday, Oct. 7th, at 6 p. m.,
to nominate a delegate to the Forty-sixth
Congress.
	The number of delegates to the conven-
tion has been apportioned as follows (being
based, as nearly as possible, upon the num-
ber of representatives to the Legislative
Assembly):

[Subcolumn 1]
COUNTY	NO.
Salt Lake...........18
Utah..................  8
Juab...................  3
Millard............... 3
Beaver............... 3
Piute.................. 1
Iron.................... 3
Kane.................. 2
Washington...... 2
S[-]vier..............  2

[Subcolumn 2]
COUNTY	NO.
Sanpete...........  5
Wasatch..........  2
Summit...........  2
Morgan...........  2
Davis...............  4
Box Elder........  3
Tooele.............  2
Weber.............  5
Cache..............  7
Rich.................  1
									——
		Total.................................................78

	The leading men in each county are par-
ticularly requested to adopt such measures
as will secure a proper representation at the
coming convention; also to take the steps
necessary before the election as will give to
the candidate chosen by the convention as
delegate, the fullest support of the regis-
tered voters of the people's tioket.
	By order of the committee,
				JOHN SHARP, Chairman,
				THEO. MCKEAN, Sec'y.

	We have published in full the call made
by the Territorial Committee for a People's
Territorial Convention. When women have
the ballot, they possess a recognizable claim


to the title of citizen. And as citizens re-
present the interests of the community in
all public gatherings for the general good
of all classes of people, we hope and trust-
there will be, on the part of the brethren, a
liberal feeling manifested towards the sis-
ters, in allowing them to take part in the
deliberations n[-]w pending. The population
of this Territory is largely composed of wo-
men, and they have the elective franchise,
which means representation in the best
sense politically; women are engaged in
business, in public work of varions kinds,
and with that and having the ballot, should
be entitled to consideration in the body
politic. There is no occasion to fear a femi-
nine element in politics, and that phase
should have free and full expression; phy-
sical strength is by no means the source of
righteous law, and it seems to us that men
should rejoice to take into their political
meetings that part of the human race who
represent most largely its sympathies and
finer feelings. Sir Charles Reed, Chairman
of a public meeting in London recently, in
his remarks said: “It is said that women
wish to enter Parliament, and if so all he
could say was that the assembly would not
be the worse for them. He believed they
would at least be peacemakers and moder-
ate the proceedings very often.”
	It is our belief that a quickening moral
influence would result from the recognition
of women in politics.


TERRITORIAL FAIR.

SPECIAL RAILROAD TERMS TO EXHIBITORS.

	The superintendents of the U.C.U.S.
and U. W. Railroads have generously of-
fered to place at the disposal of exhibitors
of stock and other products, one car for
each road free of charge. This arrange-
ment will enable contributors to the Fair to
send in their exhibits and take them home
at the close of the Exposition, without de-
lay or cost.
	The superintendents have also promised
the usual low Conference rates to all ex-
hibitors. The Directors cherish the hope
that these liberal railroad facilities will be
an additional incentive to make the Fair a
marked success.


TRUE GRIT.

	BY SARAH ANDREWS SPENCER.
	
	The Executive Committee of the Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association, after
careful deliberation, have prepared and
will shortly submit to the friends of wo-
man suffrage in the United States, a plan
of work designed to secure action from
Congress upon the two pending Sixteenth
Amendment resolutions, one of them upon
the Senate Calendar, and the other brought
to a tie vote in the House Judiciary Com-
mittee. The following is a brief outline of
the proposed work:
	1. Let all who have Sixteenth Amend-
ment petitions received too late for pre-
sentation during the first regular session of
the Forty-fifth Congress, obtain as many
additional names as possible, and forward
by December 1, 1878, according to previous
instructions, to Washington, D. C., for pre-
sentation during the approaching session.
	2. Hold local town and county meetings,
and take rising votes at the close upon pe-
titions to your own State Legislature, ask-
ing it to pass a resolution declaring it the
duty of Congress to submit to the people


an amendment to the Constitution protect-
ing women citizens in the right of suffrage
	3. Hold State Conventions at State Cap-
tols during the sessions of the Legislature,
and endeavor to secure immediate action
on the above resolution.
	4. Continue the agitation during the
whole of ihe present Congress, and if jus-
tice is not granted, roll up the largest pet-
tions the world ever saw to the Forty-sixth
Congress, laboring meantime to secure the
election of men who will heed them.
	Let the work go on with ever increasing
power and determination, until every Con-
stitution in the land, State, Territorial and
National, secures equal rights to men and
women.—Woman's Words.


GEORGE ELIOT.

	Mrs. Marlon Lewis (George Eliot) is thus
described by a correspondent: “My hand
was held for a moment by a lady in the
plainest possible attire. Somewhat to my
surprise, I found her intensely feminine.
Her slight figure—it might almost be called
diminutive—her gentle, persuasive air,
her constrained gesticulation, the low, sweet
voice—all were as far removed from the
repulsive phenomenon, the “man-woman,”
as it is possible to conceive. The brow
alone seemed to betray her intellectual su-
periority; her face reminded me somewhat
of the portrait of Charlotte Bronte, that
every one is familiar with. Yet there was
no striking similarity; I should rather say
the types of head and face are the same.
When she crossed the room to call atten-
tion to a volume under discussion she
seemed almost like an invalid, and evinced
also an invalid’s indifference to fashion and
frivolity in dress. Perhaps it is half true,
the strange story that I heard in all its va-
riations, for there were those present who
sat transfixed and gazed rapturously upon
the creator of “Romola” and “Adam
Bede.” Every syllable she uttered sank
deep into fertile hearts. I can speak for
the homely home that seemed almost bare,
and for the homely hospitality, than which
nothing can be less pretentious. I shall
never forget the absolute repose of Mrs.
Lowes, the deliberation with which she
discussed the affairs of life, speaking al-
ways as if she were revealing only about a
tenth part of her knowledge upon the sub-
ject in question. With her it seemed as if
the tides had all come in; as if she had
weathered the ultimate storm; as if cir-
cumstance and not desire had swept her
apart from her kind, and left her isolated,
the unrivaled mistress of a passionless ex-
perience.—“Woman’s Words.”


GRATITUDE is a blossom of rare sweet-
ness, its fragrance is ever refreshing, in
this world of careless indifference; it should
be nourished, for it is one of the genuine
growths of a divine nature. Yet we see
much more of the counterfeit than the re-
ality, and it is hard to detect the real from
the unreal, unless we ourselves possess the
true germ.—Emile.


MISS HELEN M. Taylor, widely and popu-
larly known as a strong advocate and firm
supporter of woman suffrage in England,
has been nominated for a member of Par-
liament from Southwark district, London.
Earl Beaconsfield is said to be in sympathy
with the measure. It is thought this will
be a practical test of the strength of the
movement in favor of woman suffrage.


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
	PEACE AND GOOD WILL.

	In good old New England where our early
years were spent, in the home, in Sunday
School and in Church we were taught that the
Gospel of Christ meant peace and good-will,
that it inculcated great charity, that it taught
its followers to love their neighbors as them-
selves, in fact that to "Do to others as ye
would they should do unto you" was the max-
im ensuring the highest Christian attainment.
Can it be that New England people have
apostatized from the simple faith that was so
strenously enjoined upon us in childhood?  So
it would seem if we can credit what we read in
the columns of a Christian paper.  They
would inflict upon an industrious, thrifty, en-
terprising people the most severe chatisement
by refusing them the right of representation
to citizenship, to the protection which America
through her constitution guarantees to all her
children.  "The Watchman" says "In Utah
women vote.  We shall say nothing here con-
cerning the abstract propriety of giving the
ballot to women."  We judge from this that
"The Watchman" does not believe that woman
has any right to the ballot.  There are men and
women we are conscious, in dear old Mass-
achusetts who will never hold their peace un-
til the franchise is extended to woman, and not-
withstanding the strength and power of the
clergy and others who oppose suffrage for wo-
men, yet they cannot prevent its coming.
"The Watchman" says "In other parts of our
country there is a general conviction that un-
til women of culture and intelligence become
sufficiently interested in political affairs to go
to the polls, it would be dangerous to extend
the franchise to both sexes." "The Watchman"
must know that there are many hundreds of
women in the Old Baby State and other States
and Territories cultivated and intelligent who
are quite sufficiently interested to go to the
polls and vote—and all they lack is the privi-
lege of being allowed to use the ballot.
	And further "It would certainly not be
wrong for Congress to repeal the law giving
woman the franchise, and require conformity
to the almost universal custom of our nation."
Wise counselor, liberal and Christian-like to
wrest the ballot from the hands of a few heroic
women, who driven from their homes, friends
and associations have braved the perils of the
wilderness enduring the hardships, toils and
privations consequent upon a pioneer life.
These self-same women many of them de-
scended from Puritan fathers and mothers and
by every sacred right entitled to protection,
yet compelled to go beyond the borders of civ-
ilization, taking their lives in their hands as it
were, laying down by the way their loved
ones one after another, still enduring suffering
and fatigue, feeling only that God was their

[Column 2]
friend. Now after years of struggling and
poverty, prosperity in a measure has dawned
upon them, and blessings multiplied and even
the franchise extended to them, almost it
would seem, as a gift from God, forsooth these
good, pious people, who preach peace and good
will to all mankind, are afraid to let these wo-
men vote—it increases the power of the Mor-
mons; these women can be disfranchised, that
will be no injustice.  Further, "Congress, in
the exercise of its right to govern the Territo-
ries, should disfranchise those voters, whether
men or women, who are living in polygamous
marriage. * * * We do not know that it
would be proper to disfranchise the offspring of
all unlawful wives; yet even this might be
done, if necessary in order to defeat the politi-
cal views of those who promote the great bar-
barism."  How can this great Republic disfran-
chise her sons, who are by birth entitled to
citizenship, and who have infringed upon no
law?  When "The Watchman" talks at ran-
dom after this fashion, it is time it looked up
the law and studied the Constitution.  That is
something Congress is powerless to do.  "The
Watchman" should stick to religion, peace and
good will, and spare itself the trouble of giv-
ing advice to Congress in regard to disfranchis-
ing an honest, industrious people, who mind
their own business and do not believe in med-
dling; who till the soil, who build up the coun-
try, who maintain just laws and good institu-
tions, who do not encourage vice, or pauper-
ism, or vagrancy, who believe in being self-sup-
porting, who maintain their integrity to God
and their fellow men.
	Further, "The Watchman" says, "Gentile
women, as a rule, do not care to exercise the
privilege of voting, while the Mormon women
are urged and almost forced to exercise it."
This is, indeed, too much.  Mormon women
esteem the ballot a sacred right, and are anx-
ious to exercise it, there is no occasion to urge
or force them, for they have as much at stake
as their husbands have—their lives are insepar-
ably connected, and we would as much expect
to see the wife urging the husband to go to the
polls, or the daughter the father, as the oppo-
site.
	Mormon women know something of the
term liberty, for they have felt the iron rod of
oppression in being [-]riven out without shelter
to perish, as thousands did, and they will in-
graft into the minds and hearts of their chil-
dren the love of liberty and freedom, and teach
their sons to respect the claims of the injured
and the cries of the oppressed, and their daugh-
ters that they are entitled to all the rights and
privileges of free-born American women, and
that neither Congress nor Christian ministers
have any rights to defraud them of their inalien-
able birthright.
	We can forgive the "Watchman" for all its
absurdities, knowing as we do that God rules,
and that although "man proposes God dispos-
es," therefore we say watch and wait and you
will see the salvation of God, in the deliver-
ance of His people.
	And as for women everywhere, "Watchman,
what of the morning?'!  Do you not see the
morning star of woman's destiny in the as-
cendant?  Why the whole civilized world is
becoming enlightened with its beams. In
America, lighting up the dark places, are some
of its brightest rays becoming visible. There
are some wise men who recognize the star, and
who even say "peace and good will" to woman,
and take her by the hand and welcome her to
their circle, and would fain assign to her all
that nature gave her intelligence and capacity
to do, would lift her up to their level in educa-
tion, and in science, and say there is room for

[Column 3]
us both, let us walk side by side.  But in spite of
all, "the blind who will not see," the light will
dawn and they who recognize its importance
and participate in its effulgence will be blessed
and benefitted thereby.  Men and women will
be capable of greater good when they are lifted
to a higher standard, which they never can at-
tain while they are unjust to each other, and
narrow and selfish in their views of life and its
aims and possibilities.
	Surely there is room for all, in this great
country, and protection for all under its glori-
ous Constitutson.


THE STORING OF GRAIN.

	The great prevalence of disasters of various
kinds which tend to famine with its most ter-
rible consequences, should be an incentive to
the sisters who are interested in the storing of
grain and other products for a day to come, to
press forward and be active and earnest in the
noble enterprise. The women of Utah should
consider it a privilege to have the opportunity
of assisting in a great public benevolence of
this character. Woman's sympathies are all
enlisted in the cries of the needy, woman's
heart goes out in sweet charity to the little
children, whose woe-begone faces tell the story
of want, then let women who have been blest
above all women on the face of the earth, with
light and intelligence from above, use their
faculties for good and wise purposes.
	The counsel given the sisters to undertake
this seemingly arduous work was given by one
who is now resting from his earthly labors,
they should prove their devotion to him, their
respect for his words by heeding the advice he
gave, and fill the storehouses in the different
sections of the country with the products of
the soil, such as will preserve man and beast
in times of famine.
	This year the Lord has given to His people
abundant harvests, they should not be unmind-
ful of His goodness and favor but prove their
gratitude by storing up a portion to bless and
comfort the poor in the day of need.
	The Presidents of Relief Societies in city
and country should take active measures in re-
gard to this matter and when the wheat is gar-
nered, get their reports ready to forward to the
Central Grain Committee that they may be
prepared to make a full and correct statement
of all the grain in the Territory, or in possess-
ion of the sisters of the Relief Societies at the
Annual Grain Meeting which will be held in
this city Saturday. Nov. 16th, 1878. We ex-
pect to hear that some white beans also have
been stored; it has often been remarked
through these columns that white beans would
keep longer and require less care than even
the wheat.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	QUARTERLY MEETING: The sisters should
remember that the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday Sept. 21. There will be two sessions,
commencing at 10 o'clock a. m., and 2 o'clock
p.m. Presidents and officers of the various
branches of Relief Society in Salt Lake Co.
and all interested in the work are solicited to
attend. Secretaries should send in their re-
ports previous to the time of holding the meet-
ing that the Secretary may review and proper-
ly arrange them. Reports may be sent to this
office, and this arrangement will be perhaps the
most practicable. As there is some necessary


[Column 1]
business to be transacted by the officers of Re-
lief Society it is hoped all that can will make
a point of being present to take part in its
transaction. If the Secretaries will refer to
the instructions given at the last R. S. Confer-
ence in this city and published in WOMAN'S
EXPONENT of July 1, it may help them in
making up reports. They cannot be too care-
ful and particular, but it should be done in or-
der.
	WE HAVE received with the Sept. 5 No. of
the "New North West" an interesting and
ably edited woman's paper, published in Port-
land, Oregon, by Mrs. A. J. Duniway, a sup-
plement to the Portland Bee containing the
speech of Senator Mitchell, delivered by invi-
tation of the leading citizens of Portland at
New Market Theatre in that city, on Saturday
evening Aug. 31.
	MRS. Dr. Ferguson begs to announce that on
Monday, September 16th, she will open a SE-
LECT MORNING CLASS for LADIES, for
instruction in the higher branches of a compre-
hensive English education. Recitations every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning,
from 9 to 12 30. The Evening Class in Elocu-
tion and Dramatic Reading, for Ladies and
Gentlemen, will meet on Wednesday and Sat-
urday. Classes in vocal and Instrumental
Music, French and Drawing, as last winter.
For terms apply to Dr. E. B. Ferguson, First
East Street.
	THE LADIES Relief Association for gather-
ing means for the Yellow Fever sufferers held
a meeting and formed Committees to visit the
different parts of the city and solicit donations
for that noble and benevolent purpose.
Among the active and efficient workers are
Mrs. Oliver Durant, Mrs. G. M. Anderson,
Mrs. Joseph Morrell, Miss Helen Golinski,
Mrs. A. J. Patterson and Miss Jote Spencer.
Altogether they have collected up to the pres-
ent time, Sept. 13, $925 which will be forward-
ed to the suffering South. The Hebrew ladies
have also raised some funds. There has been
one performance at the Theatre, Base Ball
Games played, lectures given and other enter-
tainments to accumulate means for this lauda-
ble purpose, and in this way quite a large sum
of money has been raised and the work still
goes on.
	THERE WILL be a Territorial Fair held in
Salt Lake City under the auspices of the D.
A. and M. Society, in which the ladies are so-
licited to take part. The following ladies have
been appointed a committee to take charge of
the department of woman's work. Mrs Pris-
cilla M. Staines, Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Abba Rumell,
Mrs. Ann Dewey. The ladies of the Relief
Societies are solicited to contribute silk and
other goods which are manufactured by them,
also all kinds of fancy articles, ornamental
needlework, hair-work, drawing, painting, or
any of these classes of work, as well as domes-
tic manufactures of all kinds. The ladies of
the Territory should take pains to aid in mak-
ing this Territorial Fair the best that has ever
been held, and will thus be conferring a public
good by contributing to encourage home pro-
ductions and home-talent. The Fair will com-
mence Oct. 2d, in the City Market.
	THE ENTERTAINMENT given by the Azelea
Literary Association in the Social Hall on
Monday evening Sept. 9, for the benefit of the
Yellow Fever Sufferers was a financial success;
the proceeds, we are told, amounting to $130.
The first part of the programme consisted of
songs and select reading, recitations, most of

[Column 2]
them exceedingly well rendered for amateurs,
and an essay by Miss Josephine Spencer, on
the subject for which the entertainment had
been given, which did her great credit. The
comic play of "Toodles" constituted the last
part of the evening's entertainment and we
can but deprecate the selection of a play that
portrays the drunkard without any object of
moralizing but simply to be funny. It seems
to us that every person who desires to see a
better state of society and correct principles
promulgated among the young should discoun-
tenance the imitations of drunkenness upon
the stage, unless there is good to be effected
through the moral it presents.
	WE HAD a pleasant interview with Mrs
E. Hardacre who came here as a correspond-
ent in the interest of the "New York Herald."
We had been informed previously that Mrs.
H. was coming to write sensational letters
about Mormon Women, something in the
style of a former correspondent who paid Salt
Lake a visit of some weeks last year. Mrs. H.
is a lady of exceedingly pleasant manners, an
intelligent face and sympathetic eyes. She is
attractive in conversation, and is no doubt a
clever writer, as she seems to possess the nec-
essary requisites. Her stay in this city was
limited and she has gone on to California, but
will return here again after a short tour through
portions of that state, and spend a week or ten
days in this vicinity making notes of observa-
tion and writing for the N. Y. Herald from
here. Mrs. H. expects to make some sketches
of the ruins and curiosities of Southern Califor-
nia, and also write an article upon them for
Scribner's Monthly, to which she is already a
contributor. What opinions she may form
concerning Mormon Women, remains to be
known through her articles. She seemed anx-
ious to hear of the travels and hardships of the
early settlers here, and her eyes filled with
tears when she contemplated the sufferings en-
dured by these heroic women; and she remark-
ed "if trials, persecutions, hardships and cruci-
fixions will entitle people to salvation, then
your people have certainly earned it." She
marveled as many others have at the wonder-
ful work which had been done in settling the
Desert.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


UTAH COUNTY SILK MEETING.

	Meeting of the Utah Co. Branch Silk Asso-
ciation held at Elder Daniel Grave's Park Gar-
dens, Provo, Aug. 30th; meeting called to order
by Prest. Mary Hindley. Opened by singing
and prayer. Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. Elder Graves stated the
object of the meeting to consult about the best
method of obtaining means to carry on the
silk enterprise. Gave an account of an inter-
view he had with a brother with a view to
purchasing a reel and other machinery for the
working up of the silk. Recommended the
brethren to encourage the sisters by their faith
and means, that they may be enabled to carry
on the business effectually. It is necessary that
the Association have means to buy up the co-
coons, so that the sisters may not get discour-
aged but keep on trying to raise a little silk.
Motioned that each ward get up a petition to
their City Fathers and ask them to present it
to the County Court.
	Pres't. Hindley spoke of several items of in-
terest to the members of the Association, and
regretted the disadvantage of having no means
to buy up the cocoons.
	An amendment to the motion was made by
Mrs. J. Durrant, to the effect that a committee
of three be formed in each ward, one of the


R. S., and two of the Y. L. M. I. A. to raise
a fund by subscription to buy up the cocoons,
and purchase the necessary machinery etc.,
which was carried unanimously.
	Mrs. Crompton of American Fork reported
30 lbs. cocoons and 4 oz. of eggs raised there
this season.
	D. Graves stated that there had been 3000
mulberry trees planted out this season in Utah
County. Also reported 50 lbs. of cocoons rais-
ed in Provo this season, and exhibited speci-
mens of spun silk prepared for the loom. Mrs
Wooley of Pleasant Grove reported 17 lbs. co-
coons and 5 oz. eggs raised in that settlement.
	Mrs. Hardy of Payson reported 5 lbs. co-
coons and silk-worm eggs to the value of six
dollars, also one and a half lbs. of silk reeled
ready for the loom.
	Mrs. E. D. Clarke motioned that a report of
the Commitees' be sent to Pres't. Hindley be-
fore the end of Sep. Carried.
	Meeting adjourned until Oct. next.
				MRS. M. HINDLEY, Pres't.
				MRS. E. FEATHERSTONE, Sec'y.


OBITUARY.

	DIED AT East Mill Creek, Sept. 2nd, 1878, of
consumption, Lilian Edna, youngest daughter
of John and Ann E. Neff, aged one year, five
months and eleven days.

	"There is no flock however well attended,
	But one dead Lamb is there."

	To those who mourn let me say, that time
will accustom you to Lilian's absence, you will
never forget her, you need not shut her from
your thoughts, but you will find other duties
supplying the place of those you once owed to
her. I know it may seem cold and unnatural
but our Father has placed us here to find our
happiness in blessing those around us, and if
he takes any of the dear objects away, he sig-
nifies by the act that our duties to these are
finished. Oh we have a priceless faith! We
lay our loved ones in the arms of God and feel
in the depths of our soul that all is well with
them. We know that we shall soon meet them
again. never to part. Were Lilian absent from
her mother here upon earth, she would have
constant fears that some ill might betide her,
but now she knows that evil can never touch
her immortal one.—W. C. L.

	WE HAVE to record the demise of another
faithful Sister Christina N. Miller, who died of
heart disease at her residence Sept. 7th in this
city. Deceased was born in Franklin Co.
Pennsylvania March 18th, 1818; emigrated to
Utah in the hand cart company Aug. 1860, and
reached the city in good health and spirits;
she was devoted to her religion, and ever re-
joiced in its principles; and was true and faith-
ful to the same. President Angus M. Cannon
preached a most edifying and consoling dis-
course at her funeral, applicable and comfort-
ing to all that heard it. He spoke of visiting
her in her home in Pennsylvania, and of her
kindness and hospitality to the Elders when-
ever they visited her. With her they ever
found "a quiet and peaceful home" "that she
died in the Lord and her works will follow
her." There was a large assembly of friends
to pay their last respects, and a long line o
carriages filled with the same followed the
hearse to the cemetery. Pres. A. M. Cannon,
the Bishop, and other prominent men in au-
thority attended. Pres. Cannon made a few
appropriate and closing remarks.—"Let me die
the death of the righteous." Amen.
							H. T. K.


62		﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON-
				FERENCE.

			JUAB STAKE OF ZION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our first Quarterly Meeting of the Stake
organization of the Relief Society was
held April 21st, 1878, at the Nephi Meeting
House. Opened by singing and prayer.
Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough made a few re-
marks on the object of the meeting and
the Financial Report which was read, after
which Pres. George Teasdale said the ob-
ject of these Quarterly Meetings are to
keep track of the business of the Society,
that you may all understand what property
you own; also to amalgamate your feelings,
that you may be enabled to work together
harmoniously. He also gave much good
counsel, and encouraged the sisters to per-
severe in the culture of silk, and wished
them to practice what they preach and as
far as possible wear home production; said
we should feel proud of our dress when we
did this. He encouraged the sisters to be
faithful in the discharge of every duty.
	Owing to the weather being very stormy
our meeting was not very well attended.
Meeting adjourned to the 21st of July.
Benediction by Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough.
	Second Quarterly Meeting of the Relief
Society, held in the Nephi Meeting House,
July 21st, 1878. Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough,
President of Relief Society, presiding.
Counselors Mrs. Elizabeth Kendall and
Jane Pixton, Secretary Mrs. Mary Pitch-
forth, Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Amy
L. Bigler, Mrs. Aagard, President of Levan
Branch, Mrs. Stringham, of S. L. City,
Pres. Geo. Teasdale, Apostle Erastus Snow,
Patriarch Jacob G. Bigler, and several
others, both brethren and sisters, occupied
the stand.
	After singing, and prayer by Pres. Geo.
Teasdale, the Secretary read the minutes
of the last Conference, which were accepted,
and then the report of Nephi, Levan and
Mona Branches.
	President Goldsbrough then made a few
remarks, a portion of which are as follows:
	"I am pleased to meet with you at this
time. I am proud to represent the Relief
Society, and I feel determined, by the help
of my Father in Heaven, to discharge every
duty that devolves upon me. When I re-
ceived the Gospel, I made a covenant with
God that I would strive, with the help of
His Spirit, to keep His commandments. I
am here at this time because it is a duty,
and I earnestly request you, my sisters here
in Nephi, to come to meeting that you may
understand what we are doing. When the
Teachers go to visit, I want them to go as
comforters to the Saints, and not to beg; if
the people have anything to give they will
give it without asking for it. I pray God
to bless us all."
	Mrs. Susan Stringham then exhibited
a silk scarf and some skein-silk of home-
production.
	Pres. Mrs. Aagard, of Levan, then made
a few remarks, showing the willingness of
the sisters of that Branch to do all they
could to help roll an the great work in these
last days.
	Mrs. Hannah Jones was appointed to re-
ceive the fast day donations in the North
Ward, and Mrs. Sarah Ann Andrews to
continue to receive them in the South
Ward.
	Pres. George Teasdale then said: "The
Relief Society have been in the habit of
receiving and disbursing our fast day do-
nations, and I want them to continue to do

[Column 2]
so; I want a strict account kept of all re-
ceived and disbursed. I consider it no
disgrace to receive when we need; it is a
great blessing that we can obtain what we
need by asking for it. I am proud of my
sisters, and I pray God to bless our Socie-
ties and all who sustain them."
	Apostle Erastus Snow said: "I am pleased
that Bro. Teasdale encourages the sisters to
look after the poor; the sisters are more
capable of doing this than the brethren.
Many of our sisters labor hard to sustain
themselves and their children, and would
suffer and not complain, but they need the
help of the mothers in Israel in these mat-
ters. There are others who have never
been taught to work; they need experienced
sisters to teach them. Teach the people
industries. It is right to accumulate
riches, but we must not set our minds on
this world's goods. I like to hear the sis-
ters speak in these meetings, also in Fast
Meetings. You can work in your sphere.
A good, faithful mother will teach her sons
to keep the commandments of God; a
mother has great influence in her house;
she can sustain the husband and encourage
him to be a better man. Your works are
appreciated in Zion; there is no place that
the labors of the faithful are more needed
than in Zion. May God help you to be
valiant in the cause; I ask God to bless you.
Amen.
	Mrs. Sarah Ann Andrews then sang "My
own land Deseret.
	Dismissed by Elder Snow.
				AMY L. BIGLER, Cor. Sec'y.
	Quarterly Report of the Nephi Relief
Society, for the Quarter ending July 20th,
1878.
Property on hand as follows:
1 Lot, Relief House and Lot.................$1800 00
Wheat stored, 105 1/2 bu; @ 60cts....       63 30
Flour, quilts, and stockings.................       55 00
Donations for Sanpete Temple &c....        73 73
For Welsh Mission................................       19 15
Sunday Eggs..........................................       33 25
Cash and Store Orders........................       23 00
Sundries.................................................      29 98
								   ————
		Total					    2097 41

Contra.
Sundries disbursed to poor.................      50 96
Paid to Welsh Mission Fund................       19 15
Wheat in store......................................       63 30
Relief House, Lot, &c............................   1800 00
Paid to Temple, not reported last
	time.................................................      86 00
Cash, merchandise, flour, &c...............      78 00
								   ————
		Total					    2097 41

Number of members enrolled, 270; number
of acting members attending meeting, 68.

	Statement of the Levan Relief Society
for the quarter ending July 20th, 1878.

Shares in Levan Co-op Store............$ 100 00
Amt. in Treasury................................      69 50
Fifty bushels of wheat stored @ 60.      30 00
								————
		Total					   199 50

Disbursed to Manti Temple.............       27 50
To Poor...............................................         5 83
Missionary Fund................................         2 70
Sundries.............................................             70
Property in hand...............................     162 77
								————
		Total					   199 50

	Statement of the Mona Relief Society
for the quarter ending July 20th, 1878.

Shares in Store.................................. $    93 50

[Column 3]
Value of City Lot................................     100 00
Ten bu. of wheat @ 60.....................          6 00
Balance in Treasury.........................         30 75
								    ———
	Total,						$  230 25
Disbursed to Welsh Mission Fund.      $ 39 72
Emigration Fund...............................         40 04
To the Poor........................................           5 05
Manti Temple....................................         12 05
Property on hand..............................      133 39
								     ———
	Total,						     230 25


CORRESPONDENCE.

	SPRING CITY, Aug. 5th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	June 22d Pres. E. R. Snow and Zina D.
Young came here, accompanied by Mrs.
Goldsbrough, President of Nephi, and Mrs.
Irons, President of Moroni Relief Socie-
ties.
	On the 23d meeting was called; all at-
tended, old and young. It was truly a
time of refreshing, which was highly ap-
preciated by the whole community.
	On the Monday following, the Sunday
 School children had the privilege of a spe-
cial meeting, and were much delighted in
hearing the many interesting subjects ad-
vanced for their benefit. That evening
the Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. A. were called
together, also all others who could get into
the house; it was very crowded. They
talked to the young like mothers of the
most noble character, for that is what they
truly are, and their advice was accepted by
most of the young, and they say they wish
Sisters Snow and Young would come oftener;
they could listen to them at any time with
pleasure. The Spirit of God was plainly
felt by one and all.
	Our President, M. A. P. Hyde, is another
mother in Israel; she looks well to all the
needy, and is a great comforter to the sor-
rowful. We have some excellent teachers,
who are careful in looking after the sick
and needy, but to make sure that none are
neglected, Mrs. Hyde will take special time
to visit all around and go to every one
who is sick or in need, and learn their con-
dition from themselves, and what will com-
fort them; and as far as it is in her power
she will relieve them and supply their
wants. She ever carries with her a humble
and meek spirit, is blest with the best
counsel and advice to give to all; with her
good counsel and the blessings of God we
are wonderfully blest with love and union
in the whole of our Society.
	We wish the EXPONENT to ever continue
and prosper. We are pleased to see that
other Societies are progressing as fast as
they are, and do hope that we can be one
with them.
	P. E. BENSON, Sec'y.

	ST. CHARLES, IDAHO, July 31st, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In the EXPONENT of July 1st there is an
interesting article entitled "Jacob's Pillow,
versus Pillar," in which the following error
appears—"Through James the First of
Scotland and Sixth of England it was
brought to England and placed where it
has remained ever since in Westminister
Abbey." In the first place, James the
First of Scotland never was king of Eng-
land by any of the James's, but was taken
there by Edward the First, A. D., 1296.


[Column 1]
	Buchanan, in his History of Scotland,
says: "He (Edward I) destroyed every
history, treaty and ancient monument,
whether left by the Romans or erected by
the Scots; and carried off all the books and
teachers of learning into England. He
also sent to London the rude stone with
which the fate of the kingdom was com-
monly believed to be connected; nor did he
leave any relic by which a generous mind
might be roused at the remembrance of
pristine greatness, or that might excite
and encourage true magnanimity of soul."
	The following details are given as matter
of interest to the curious reader.

		THE REGAL CHAIR.

	"The chair is that in which the sovereigns
of England have been crowned since the
time of Edward the Second. The princi-
pal antiquity, however, connected with it
is the 'fatal stone,' enclosed within the
frame-work, immediately under the royal
seat; much of fable is connected with this
relic of antiquity. This stone is of an ob-
long form, but irregular, measuring 26
inches in length, 17 3/4 in breadth, 10 1/2 in
thickness; it is a sandy, granular stone
seat of debris of sienite, chiefly quartz,
with light and reddish colored feldspar,
and also light and dark mica. History re-
lates that it is the stone whereon the pa-
triarch Jacob laid his head, in the plain of
Luz. It is also added that it was brought
to Brigantia, in the kingdom of Gallicia. in
Spain, in which place Gathol, King of the
Scots, sat on it as his throne. Thence it
was conveyed into Ireland by Simon Brech,
who was King of the Scots, about 700
years before Christ; from thence into Scot-
land by King Fergus, about 370 years after-
wards; and in the year A. D. 1850, it was
transferred from Dunstaffrage Castle to the
Abbey Scone in the Sheriffdom of Perth,
by King Kenneth, who caused it to be en-
closed in this wooden chair, and a prophet-
ic verse to be engraved, of which the fol-
lowing is a translation.

	'Should fate not fail, where'er this stone is found,
	The Scots shall monarchs of that realm be crowned.'

	This is the more remarkable from its
having been fulfilled in the person of King
James the Sixth of Scotland and the First
of England, who was grandfather of the
Princess Sophia, Electress Dowager of
Hanover, grandmother of King George the
Second, and from the same lineage comes
the amiable Queen Victoria. The chair
itself is of oak, and is still firm and sound.
There can be no doubt, from the character
of its construction, that it belongs to the
reign of Edward First, and that it was
made for the reception of the highly prized
relic which it now encloses.
		Respectfully,
							RURAL.

	PHILADELPHIA, PA., Aug. 8th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	Two late copies of the EXPONENT have
just come to hand, the first I have seen
since leaving home in April last. The ar-
ticles on storing grain which they contain
thrilled me as I read them, and I have felt
irresistibly impelled to write a few words
in encouragement of the work, and I am
persuaded that the language which I can
best use for this purpose will be that which
is descriptive of the present actual condi-
tion of thousands of families in this State.
	I have recently traveled through the
coal regions, and had occasion, in the course
of my genealogical labors, to make the ac-
quaintance of many individuals in differ-

[Column 2]
ent stations in life. The universal cry is
unprecedentedly hard times. Those who
have money are taking the best of care of
it, and confidence in new enterprises
scarcely exists. The coal mines are now
averaging, as nearly as I could learn, and I
made special inquiries, about one-third the
wages per diem. that they received before
the panic, and do not average working more
than half as many days in a month as they
did then. Thus there are thousands of
families in the coal regions of this State
who are now subsisting on about one-sixth
the income they had before the panic!
True, they made high wages then, but with
rare exceptions coal miners are a very im-
provident class, who never lay up for a 
rainy day, and the late tremendous reduc-
tions in wages has entailed great suffering
upon them. In many towns in Luzerne
County that I visited, I was informed that
hundreds of families were dependent
wholly, or in part, on charity for food, and
that often all they had to eat was bread or
potatoes. Probably the worst feature of
the matter is the discouraging outlook,
which, instead of promising better times
forebodes worse. Rumors of threatened
communistic uprisings have been rife ever
since I reached the State, and it is not im-
probable that the scenes of the Pittsburg
riots of last summer may be re-enacted at
any time in various portions of the State.
	In the States of Iowa and Illinois, though
there is less scarcity of food, business is
equally as dull, work as scarce and wages
as low as further east. In Central Illinois
coal has been selling at seventy-five cents
and one dollar per ton, loaded on the cars.
When coal is so low miners wages must be
at least proportionately so, and even those
who could find work at all, in many in-
stances, could not earn more than fifty cents
per day.
	The iron industry is suffering severely,
too. Workman in foundries and rolling
mills receive from eighty cents to a dollar
and a half per diem—very low wages for
that class of work—and all kinds of labor
is paid for at very low rates.
	Where will all this end? The states I
have named are only specimens of the
whole Union.
	Political parties are becoming, with great
rapidity, more intense and bitter in their
hatred of each other. Kearney, the Pacific
Coast agitator, is now in New England,
making inflammatory speeches to vast au-
diences of working men, which are re-
sponded to by thunderous applause, and
copied in all the leading newspapers of the
east. What will be the end of this politi-
cal discord?
	As a people, the Latterday Saints have
been thoroughly instructed, by the inspired
servants of God, as to what the end must
be. As a people we know that this Repub-
lic is doomed to suffer the wrath of an of-
fended God, and that among his judgments
will be famine, with its attendant horrors.
There are prophets in Israel who have
warned and forewarned us of these things.
But what will it benefit us to have prophets
in our midst, if we heed not their inspired
warnings?
	If the Saints in Zion could but appreciate
the true condition of this whole nation, as
one can who has traveled extensively
through it from west to east, I am sure they
would feel much more keenly than many
of them do the urgent necessity of making
immediate and strenuous efforts to prepare
for the terrible scenes that are near at hand,
the contemplation of which, when they are
pictured to the mind by the spirit of

[Column 3]
prophecy, is enough to appal the stoutest
heart.
	"Save the grain," is the motto that the
Latter-day Saints should adopt and act up-
on, for in the day of want all the faith we
ever had in the doctrine of new revelation,
modern prophets, etc., will not satisfy phy-
sical hunger, if our works have not been
according to our faith.
	Your brother in the Gospel,
					B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.

		ROME, GEORGIA, Aug., 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	*	*	*	There is nothing affords me
more pleasure than to know that it is a
privilege of mine to mingle my name with
the Saints of God, through the columns of
your most enterprising and well-influenced
paper.
	Our Conference came off on the 10th,
11th, and 12th. The Saints all attended
that could; it was well attended in general
by both Saints and Sectarians, and a good
spirit prevailed. We feel to thank God for
the privilege of living in this day and age
of the world, and for the privilege of hear-
ing the Gospel, also of receiving the same.
	You can't realize for even one moment
the great pleasure that it is to us to have
the honor of being numbered with the
people of God, and we are all looking for-
ward to the day when we can gather out
from wicked Babylon, and dwell with the
Saints in Zion, where we can render assist-
ance to those who are striving to build up
the kingdom of God upon the earth; we
can readily realize the great work that you
are all engaged in, and as soon as our Heav-
enly Father sees fit to open up the way for
us to gather with you in Zion, we will be
up and alive to our duty, with a readiness
of mind in helping to accomplish the great
work that is now being established for the
last time upon the earth, we feel that there
is a great work enjoined upon us to do, and
we will hail the day with unspeakable joy
when we can begin our part of it.
	We have had some very great delusions
to contend with during the absence of the
Elders last winter; we had one who had
turned from the truth to contend with,
who caused considerable strife and confu-
sion among the Saints, but we can now
look back and see the result; he came to
work against us, but to the contrary it was
for us and to his disappointment.
	The Saints here are all enjoying good
health and are getting along very well.
We have a Sabbath School in our Branch;
one Testament class, one Catechism class
and some smaller classes. I will write to
you again just as soon as I hear from the
different branches of the Church. I will
close by asking you to remember me in
your prayers. Your sister in the Gospel of
Christ,				JOAN MANNING.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEWSPAPER REGULATIONS: 1. “Any per-
son who takes a paper regularly from the post-
office, whether directed to his name or anoth-
er’s, or whether he has subscribed or not. is re-
sponsible for the payment.
	2. If a person orders a paper discontinued, he
must pay all arrearages, or the publishers may
continue to send it until payment is made,
and collect the whole amount whether the pa-
per is taken from the office or not.


THE fireside where contentment and
peace prevail, where order reigns, where
love is the watchword, is indeed a haven
of rest, where the soul drinks in fresh
draughts of strength in its weary pilgrim-
age. —Emile.


64		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WE SEE by the "National Citizen and
Ballot Box," that the Sunday following
the Third Decade Convention at Rochester,
Rev. A. H. Strong, D. D., President of the
Rochester Theological Seminary, preached
upon "Woman's Place and Work." He
took for his text Genesis ii, 18: "And the
Lord said, it is not good for man to be
alone; I will make him an helpmeet for
him." The editor, in taking up the cud-
gel, quotes the earliest account of the crea-
tion contained in Genesis, i, 27: "So God
created man in His own image, in the im-
age of God created He him; male and
female created he them." After some very
pertinent allusions to the creation, the
writer comments upon Mr. Strong's sermon
on other testimony than Scriptural, and
where he speaks of Cornelia's "jewels" the
writer reminds him that he forgot to say
that Cornelia delivered public lectures upon
philosophy in Rome, and that Cicero paid
the very highest tribute to her learning
and genius. He deems it "too hazardous"
to allow women to vote. "Bad women
would vote." The writer says, "Well,
what of it? Have they not equal rights
with bad men to self-government? Bad is
a relative term." This and much more is
said in defense of the arguments used by
Mr. Strong, whose strong arguments she
has most strongly contradicted.


[Column 1]
MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE,
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone, and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, P[-]ushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladie's Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

[Column 2]
SUSANNA DECK,
Graduated Midwife and Nurse,
FROM THE COLLEGE OF ZURICH IN SWITZERLAND

	RESIDENCE—Twelfth Ward, three doors east of H. B.
Clawson's, on South Temple Street.

SARA'S SALVE!
PURE and harmless, inwardly or outwardly applied,
will prove a great blessing to the afflicted. Spread
it as thin as possible on linen when applied outwardly.
Cover the forehead and back of the neck over night with
the plaster for neuralgia, around the ears for earache or
roaring sounds, the cheek for toothache  Cover the nip-
ples when sore, or the breast when painful, the back and
chest when aching, the stomach when cramped.  When
suffering from inward complaints, roll some of it into
pills and take from one to five, according to the degree of
pain or condition of the patient. As clyster, nothing will
equal it. For burns and frozen hands and feet, it is bet-
ter than any other remedy. It is excellent for chapped
hands. It will cure felons in two or three dav[-]. It takes
off dead flesh in a few hours. It will cure old sores that
have baffled the most skillful doctors for scor[-] [-]f years.
Lame limbs of years standing it will cure in a week or
two. All kinds of aches or pains or open sores on man or
beast it will cure. Those that have tried it will not be
without it.
JULIA S. WINHOLM.
For sale at the Commission House, Salt Lake City.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Residence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between Sounth
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and 
Fancy Articles of all descr ptions.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 3]
ROWE'S 
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.  Co-operative Store.
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES OF THE EYE AND EAR.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address. David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches, includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in watercolors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to	C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S.
	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY AND STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

