Vol. 7	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1879.		No. 21.


CHARITY.

		A PLEA FOR PRODIGALS.

	Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.—
Jesus' words.

	And though I bestow all my goods to feed the POOR, and
though I give my body to be burned and have not Charity
it profiteth me nothing.—St. Paul.

Out in the wilderness, out in the night,
By misfortune or misery mystified quite;
From one evil fleeing and turning aside
To evils still greater, unseen and untried;
Dangers behind them, before and below—
How shall the erring know which way to go?

There are serpents too subtle to warn ere they sting,
There are serpents that charm ere upon you they spring;
The wise may escape, but the simple and young
Too oft are betrayed by the flatterer's tongue;
Evil designers that speak you so fair,
More to be dreaded than howling wolves are.
You may arm and prepare for a clamorous foe,
But these silent ones aim to destroy at a blow;
Like the treacherous tiger, remorseless to slay—
Creeping and crouching to pounce on their prey—
The tender and trusting and feeble they seek,
'Tis the nature of brutes to destroy what is weak.
If oppressor, or tempter, assaileth the strong,
There is power, there is force to resist what is wrong.
Since Eve in the garden did Satan believe,
He knows very well who and how to deceive.
For an innoc[-]nt woman an apple sufficed;
But the world and its treasures was offered to Christ;
Who else would have measured the enemy's chain,
Or refused with a word such a princely domain?
All have not the wisdom and courage combined
To say to the tempter "Hence, get thee behind."
Temptations that move not the prosperous few
Oft try others poorer, more honest and true;
Full many would stumble who never did fall.
If they ever were troubled and tempted at all;
And many would err that in goodness delight,
If they trusted no God to direct them aright;
The soul like the body would oft be crushed down,
If He looked not in mercy instead of a frown.

Lo! in the edge of the desert a gleam!
Look up! thou lost one, a light it doth seem;
Pray! that the light may be steady and clear;
Pray! that thy duty may plainly appear.
Oh! there is One watching over thee now
Whose pity extendeth to all such as thou,
Trust Him to guide thee, nor fear aught amiss,
The tiger's fierce growl, or the serpent's low hiss;
Courage, press forward thy troubles shall end,
And thou shalt be safe in the house of a friend.

Open the door, for the night it is dreary;
Open the door for the weak and the weary;
Open it quickly and welcome them in—
Many are sinned against more than they sin.
"Judge not," said Jesus, be merciful too,
Lest ye be judged by one greater than you.
Hold the light downward, the lost silver seek,
Then call in the neighbors, the kind and the meek,
And rejoice that "'tis found," for our Father above
Declared, through a being of infinite love,
That more joy was felt by the angels divine
O'er a lost one restored than o'er ninety and nine
So screened from the storm in a sheltering fold,
Safe even in darkness from dangers untold,
Without a temptation to stray from the track,
Too faithful, or favor'd, to want to turn back.

Who never was tried, or betrayed with a snare,
Or lost in the night of oppression and care,
Or felt what the erring or tempted endure,
Should censure but lightly; compassion doth cure.
Enough, that a merciful God gives command
To extend to the penitent freely the hand.
Shall we, Pharisee-like, dare to boastingly say,
"We thank Thee, O Lord, we are better than they?"

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.

	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Why do the Heathen rage, and the peo-
ple imagine a vain thing? The kings of
the earth set themselves, and the rulers
take counsel together, against the Lord, and
against his anointed saying, "Let us break
their bands asunder, and cast away their
cords from us." Psalms, ii 1, 2, 3.
	I am reminded of this saying of David's,
when I hear and also read, the acts of Con-
gress (the bills before that body) for the
destruction of this people, they seem very
fearful that the prophets words will be lit-
erally fulfilled. (I wonder if they read the
Bible) They are doing all they can to ful-
fill the decrees of Jehovah, whether they
know it or not.
	The Jews said, in the day of Jesus, that
if we let him alone, all men will believe in
him, and the Romans shall come and take
away our place and nation. John, xi 43.
	In 1830 this church was organized; it
numbered very few members, but it re-
ceived the same attention then, from the
Clergy, as it now does from the Govern-
ment, of the nation. They wished to crush
it in its infancy, it was then said of us,
"these Mormons are preaching to the Indi-
ans, they are in opposition to the govern-
ment, they vote to one interest, they are
going to protect their homes and their
families, we will drive them, we will exter-
minate them.
	In 1844 this feeling of enmity had spread
through Missouri and into the State of Ill-
inois. They took the prophets of God, Jo-
seph and Hyrum Smith, and did unto them
that which they had long desired, they
murdered them while under the protection
of the Governor of the State of Illinois; and
that same Governor, Thomas Ford, in a long
message to the House of Representatives,
screened the murderers. (one of his plea's
reads thus:)
	"But the great cause of popular fury was,
that the Mormons at several preceeding
elections had cast their votes as a unit." (As
if American citizens are not free to vote as
they choose). Unity is a crime when con-
nected with religion, according to the views
of Governor Ford and others of his class,
and will bring violence and mobocracy.
These enemies of the Mormons understand
that unity is strength, and they say if we
can divide them, bring discord among
them, follow Balaams advice, send an army
among them of young men, to seduce their
wives and daughters, and corrupt them, we
can overthrow them, and then we can feast
ourselves, as wolves on the carcasses of
the slain.
	But they know not the way of the Al-
mighty. The wicked shall not always
triumph. The Lord will come out of his
hiding place, and vex the nations in his
sore displeasure, when their cup of iniquity
is full. The Lord has spoken it by the
mouth of his holy prophets.
	But now here is another thing that must
be attended to (this polygamy) O. S. Holis-
ter Esq. in a question to President Taylor,
inquired, was not the great object, of the
institsution of polygamy to rapidly increase
the numbers of adherents to the chruch?

[Column 2]
	What could have induced that question?
	Is he and Congress, afraid that this peo-
ple will increase so fast that they out-num-
ber their enemies?
	Pharaoh was afraid of the Israelites, in
the same way and he commanded all the
male children born among the Israelites, to
be put to death. Exodus i I6: But he did
not thwart the purposes of God, though he
put into execution this cruel law.
	Herod, when the wise men were seeking
for the child Jesus endeavored by crafti-
ness, to learn where he was that he might
kill him. But an angel warned Joseph in
a dream, to take the young child and his
mother, and flee into Egypt. And then
Herod * * slew all male children that
were in Bethlehem, and in all the coast
therof from two years old and under. *
Matthew ii 16.
	How determined he was to bring to
naught, the purposes of God, how signally
he failed, and what a miserable death he
died. Acts xii 23.
	This is the work of God, and man with
all his devices cannot overthrow it.
								KANAB.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEORGE ELIOT is in poor health, and will
probably write no more novels.—EX.
	JANE EYRE dramatized has been present-
ed upon the stage in Lowell, Mass. by Gen-
evieve Ward.
	IT IS said Queen Victoria has expressed
a great desire to visit Canada. Report
says her son the Prince of Wales is encour-
aging her to do so and also to visit the
United States.
	IN Philadelphia, March 13, at the annual
commencement of the Woman's Medical
College, the degree of Doctor of Medicine
was conferred on twenty lady graduates
from various States in the Union.—EX.
	PRINCESSE LOUISE MARGARET, of Prussia
was married, March 13th, to Queen Vic-
toria's son Arthur, Duke of Connaught, at
Windsor Castle. The affair was exceeding-
ly brilliant, and the English papers dovote
column after column to the dresses of the
ladies and the elegant paraphernalia of the
whole affair.
	THE bill for Woman Suffrage in Colorado
passed the Senate, and in the House the
vote stood seventeen to tweny-four, and
not fifty-four as the Denver "Tribune" re-
ported. So that there was only a majority
of seven against it. Judge Haynes cham-
pioned the bill and earned the thanks of all
women, as did others who rendered good
service.—EX.
	ANNA METZ Byland's "Women of Pro-
gress" a neat little paper of four pages is
now in its first volumn. We have just
received a copy the first we have ever seen
of it, it is full of interesting reading matter
and certainly deserves patronage. One of
its mottoes is; If the public want firstrate
newspapers they must pay for them liberal-
ly. We should be pleased to have the pa-
per added to our list of exchanges, as we
have no WOMAN'S paper published in the
City of New York.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

					KANAB, Jan. 20, 1879.

	The Annual meeting of the Relief Socie-
ty of Kanab was held in the Schoolhouse,
Dec. 5th, 1878, at 2 p. m., Mrs. Harriet
Bunting presiding. After the usual exer-
cises and reading of minutes the Financial
report was read as follows:

Receipts.............................................$ 80 00
Profit on work...................................   46 20
								———
		Total					126 20
	Disbursements.
To the poor........................................      2 35
To Manti Temple...............................    28 50
For stationery....................................          50
								———
		Total disbursements              31 35

	In the Treasury:
Merchandise......................................     35 68
Sundries.............................................      22 07
Cash....................................................        5 60
Wheat, 21 bu.....................................      31 60
								   ———
		Total					    94 95

	Mrs. Elizabeth H D. Solomon resigned
her office as Treasurer, on account of mov-
ing to Arizona, and Mrs. Lovina A. Farns-
worth was appointed Treasurer, and Mrs.
Sabina A. Oliphant Assistant Secretary.
	President Bunting spoke upon the neces-
sity of duty and obedience and of listening
to the still small voice, and said the plan of
life and salvation is well defined. Sisters,
let us walk therein!
	Pres. Elizabeth Nuttall exhorted the sis-
ters to duty, and they would have faith
given them to rebuke sickness in the name
of Jesus. Coun. Lucy A. Johnson spoke
upon secret prayer.
Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun., said we were
placed here to beautify the earth and to do
good. No blessing is oblained without la-
bor. The sisters, through their faithful-
ness, can do a vast amount of good. Let
them seek for the Spirit of the Lord, and
they will have faith to obtain any blessing
they need. There had been fifty cases of
Typhoid fever in Kanab, and only one
death; the Lord had blessed the people
through the administration of the Elders.
Let us be very thankful for these blessings,
and give God the glory.
	After singing and prayer meeting ad-
journed.
	The sisters of Kanab have just com-
menced to store up grain. We have lumber
to make a temporary granary, and hope the
coming season to do much more.
	We appreciate the privilege of living
where we have no contaminating influences
to contend with. We fully endorse the
sentiments and resolutions of our sisters
North, which we have seen published. We
are determined to defend our rights and
uphold the principles of our holy religion,
including Plural Marriage.

				KANAB, March 18, 1879.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies of Kanab Stake of Zion was held
in the Kanab Schoolhouse, March 7, 1879,
Mrs. E. Nuttall presiding. The presidents
of the different wards were present, and
each gave a good report. Various subjects
were spoken of by the sisters, and we had
a very good meeting; the Spirit of the
Lord was in our midst.
	By the counsel of Pres. L. J. Nuttall, Sis-
ter Mary Judd, of this place, planted quite
a number of mulberry trees, and she has at
the present time fifteen ounces of cocoons

[Column 2]
and five ounces of eggs; we intend to do
what we can to start sericulture here.
	Wishing our valuable paper success in
every sense of the word,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					M. E. LITTLE, Sec'y.

	Report of Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Association from first organiza-
tion up to Dec. 10, 1878. The Y. L. M. I.
A. of Brigham City was organized July 30,
1875, by Miss E. R. Snow. Number of
members, 235. We generally had a good
attendance, and a lively interest was mani-
fested in the various exercises.
	March 13, 1878, a special meeting was
called by Miss E. R. Snow, when it was
csnsidered policy to dissolve and re-organ-
ize, having an association in each of the
four wards of Brigham City, and effecting,
at the same time, a Stake Organization.
There are eleven organizations, nine of
which reported at the Conference, showing
a membership of 420, and giving the fol-
lowing financial report of the Stake:
Donations received...................$1299 70
Wheat stored........................121bu., 38lb.
	Disbursements.
For Wheat...................................$ 33 60
Temple........................................ 177 90
Books and various charitable pur-
	poses................................. 1043 70
Remaining in Treasury............   144 60
		MINNIE J, SNOW, Superintendent,
		LYDIA A. SNOW, Becording Sec'y.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
TO THE LADIES OF THE ANTI-
POLYGAMY CRUSADE.

	There has been so much talk from press,
and pulpit,and from ladies opposite of prin-
ciples, that I thought I would say a few words
to them on the subject of Polygamy. Now
these ladies and the clergy profess to be
Christians, and I wonder that they oppose
that which is so clearly set forth in the
New Testament as this subject is. Chris-
tians signify that they are the followers of
Christ; if they are they cannot consistently
denounce Polygamy. "And if ye be
Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed and
heirs, according to the promise. (Galatians,
iii, 29.) The promise to Abraham was that
he should have a numerous posterity. In
the 12th chap. of Genesis, 2 verse it reads:
"And I will make of thee a great nation,
and I will bless thee and make thy name
great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I
will bless them that bless thee and curse
him that curseth thee; and in thee shall all
families of the earth be blessed."
	22d chap., 17th and 18th verses, the Lord
says: "In blessing I will bless thee, and in
multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the
stars of the heavens and as the sand which
is upon the sea shore, and thy seed shall
possess the gate of his enemies; and in thy
seed shall all the nations of the earth be
blessed, because thou hast obeyed my
voice." The same promise is given to Isaac,
and also to Jacob. We find no promise of
this kind made to any one but Abraham and
his seed. Now to Abraham and his seed
were the promises made; He saith not to
seeds, as of many, but as one. "And to
thy seed, which is Christ." (Gal., iii, 16.)
27th verse—"For as many of you as have
been baptized into Christ, have put on
Christ." 29th verse—"And if ye be Christ's
then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs ac-
cording to the promise." Then you see
you are adopted (through being baptized
into Christ) right into the family of a po-

[Column 2]

lygamist; and Jesus Christ himself honored
the family of that polygamist, Abraham.
Paul says: "For verily He took not on Him
the nature of an angels, but He took on Him
the seed of Abraham." (Hebrews, ii, 16.)
Abraham is called the father of the faithful
and the friend of God; those appellations
themselves are treasures.
	Seeing that Jesus took not on Him the
nature of angel, but the seed of Abraham,
we find Him teaching repentance and bap-
tism, which ordinance adopts them into
the family of Abraham, for as many as are
baptized into Christ have put on Christ, and
if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's
seed, &c. "Know ye, therefore, that they
which are of faith, the same are the chil-
dren of Abraham." "And the Scripture,
foreseeing that God would justify the heath-
en through faith, preached before the
Gospel unto Abraham, saying: In thee
shall all nations of the earth be blessed. So
they which be of faith are blessed with
faithful Abraham." (Gal., iii, 7, 8, 9.) "That
the blessings of Abraham might come upon
the Gentiles, through Jesus Christ." (14th
verse.) Now, if we are the followers of
Christ we cannot discard our polygamic fa-
thers. Isaiah says, 14th chap., 8 v., "But
thou, Israel, art my servant Jacob, whom I
have chosen, the seed of Abraham my
friend. If we have no connection with
these polygamous families, we must indeed
be outcasts, for there is no promise made to
any one else. Now, I would ask those LA-
DIES who oppose us if they are willing to
fight against this principle, seeing that in
doing so they fight against Christ? Con-
sider well before you decide; do not be led
to persecute those who are honestly and
truly fulfilling the command of God, and
have been adopted into the family of Abra-
ham, who, God says, "obeyed my voice and
kept my charge, my commandments, my
statutes and my laws." (Gen., xxvi, 5.)
There is a great deal more might be told
from the New Testament than has been
used in these few remarks. How is it pos-
sible that men who profess to preach the
Gospel are so blind that they cannot see
that Jesus and his Apostles sanctioned po
lygamy.
		KANAB.
	March 17, 1879.


PROVOKING CHIROGRAPHY.— Professor
S——, whose loss is deeply lamented in the
scholastic circles of New York, was at one
time a highly valued contributor to the
journal of which he afterward took charge,
and being one day introduced to its editor,
was greeted with every expression of cor-
diality and respect. It was a great pleasure
to meet one whose learning and services
had been, etc., etc. "But, professor," add-
ed the editor, turning upon him and seiz-
ing his hand with sudden earnestness, and
with solemnity in his face, "I hope you
pray for my printers!"
	The professor replied that he was very
happy to offer his prayers in behalf of any
who were in need of them; but what was
the special urgency in this case? "Ah!"
answered the editor, shaking his head im-
pressively, "if you could but hear them
swear when they get to work on your man-
uscript!"—Harper's Magazine for January.


A LADY in Hungary owns the distaff
used by Marie Antoinette during her im-
prisonment. It is of wood and ivory inlaid
with silver, and still is wound with the
flax left upon it by the ill-fated queen on
the eve of her execution.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE VOICES.

AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO AUNT EM.

FIRST.—
Gone from my heart is the sunlight of gladness,
	Gone from my soul is the music of your,
For mine eyes are oft dim with warm dews of sadness,
	And I sigh for the presence of one gone before.

In the springtime and spring of her life she was taken,
	When the pitying tears of young April wer shed
O'er the slumbering germlets of May, to awaken
	The sentinel flowers to vigil the dead.

And the daintiest blossom of God's lower Eden—
	Fair centre and setting of purity's wreath—
When the spring heralds welcomed the life-giving season,
	Was slain by the frosts of the winter of death.

Ah, many to spare were our hearts better willing,
	Than the soul in whose beauty all others were blest,
But "Death loves a bright mark" and ever is filling
	His graves with the spirits of those we love best.

SECOND:—
Their spirits? Ah no, for the Gospel of heaven
	A promise of glorious destiny gives—
Time's comforing balm and eternity's leaven—
	Which tells thee, sad mourner, thy dear one still lives,

'Tis only the clay that now slumbers beneath us,
	For death o'er the spirit no sceptre can sway;
And both shall unite yet again to bequeath us
	The joy of re-union at some future day.

For the mortal but rests on a motherly pillow
	While its spirit mate shines like a jewel on high,
E'en as glimmering stars in the depths of the billow
	Have their twin fires sparkling aloft in the sky.

To the future then, heart, turn for ne'er ending gladness,
	And music lorn soul for the sweetness of yore,
Where the warm light of hope drys the fountains of sad-
		ness,
	And life is all spring and the spring evermore.
									ANONYMOUS.
	S. L City, Sept. 10, 1878.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WORK FOR WOMEN.

	Without discussing the vexed question
of "what is woman's work and what is her
sphere," we will assume that it is her duty
and privilege to do whatever she can that
will promote the advancement and eleva-
tion of her own sex. We particularly be-
lieve her life work is most specially needed
and appropriate among women and chil-
dren. It is not within the capacity of our
minds to become familiar with every sci-
ence which may be of service in the course
of a lifetime, so that it becomes necessary
that some shall give particular atteniton
to one branch and some to another, each
constituting a factor of the whole. As the
preservation of life and health is of so much
importance to us all, a general knowledge
of our own organization cannot fail to be a
source of satisfaction as well as an actual
benefit to every one. If medical knowledge
to a certain degree was a part of every
daughter's education, she would be far bet-
ter fitted to fulfill her future destiny as
wife and mother, and she would know
more about the infant on her bosom than
that it is a little form of throbbing clay and
that she loves it; and there might be fewer
little mounds in the "City of the Dead."
It is only the few comparatively whose
taste it is, to make a life study of the hu-
man system, and the diseases and acci-
dents peculiar thereto; but with intelli-
gence, reason, integrity of heart and the
pure motive to do good with their might
wherever they go, this factor of the com-
munity is as invaluable and necessary as
any other. It requires long and close ap-
plication to the standard text works of this
branch of science to lay the necessary
ground-work foundation upon which to
build future observations and experience.
	It is neither safe not right for any one
[Column 2]

with a smattering knowledge picked up
promiscously to undertake the practice of
medicine, and go forth to hold the balance
of life and death in their unskillful hands,
too often unnecessarily resulting in the des-
olation of hearts and homes. I do not by
any means depreciate sound practical ex-
perience, for it is of great value and in
newly settled countries it is often an im-
perative duty for those having the nerve
and natural ability, to reach forth and as-
sist suffering humanity; but whoever finds
it her lot to fill such a responsible and im-
portant position in a community, should
feel it an incumbent duty to thoroughly
prepare herself at her earliest opportunity
for such an important work. Some may
say if we live right we will need no doc-
tors which is theoretically true, but where
is there one who can live in this fallen es-
tate without hygienically or physically
making a mistake or mishap sometime.
Nature herself often makes most grevious
errors entirely incapable of spontaneous or
natural rectification requiring the most
cultivated skill to meet the emergency.
	Our reason, the greatest gift of God to
man was given us for cultivation and our
life here on earth presents a series of oppor-
tunities of transforming circumstances into
eternal knowledge. Progress is the key-
stone of heavenly thought and plan, and for
an individual to live and die without the
world being the better for it, comes short
of the object of their existence. True knowl-
edge no matter of what science or art is
given man of God, and every acquisition
which advances us one step should only
broaden our reason and strengthen our be-
lief (which is simply physical knowledge.)
in the existence of God, and of our unbound-
ed obligations to him. True medical knowl-
edge can never corrode the soul or unfit us
for usefulness in any way. It is said in Holy
Writ that "faith without works is dead,"
and it is a matter of correct observation
that good intelligent common sense-work
is very frequently a most excellent subor-
dinate to faith.
	In every growing community there seems
to soon develop the need of a hospital de-
voted more especially to the interest of wo-
men and children, and this is now being
felt among us. It would be a place where
those, especially from a distance, needing
surgical or special medical attention could
come and have every care from physcians
and nurses. Such an Institution would
also afford most excellent opportunities for
a class of students to gain a partial knowl-
edge of medicine. (A college being requir-
ed for a thorough education) and also there
would be facilities for establishing a train-
ing school for nurses, than which there is
no greater need at the present time. Could
not such an institution be organized and
carried on under the auspices of the Latter-
day Saint ladies of Utah? It may be said
"it will require so much money"—It will
certainly require a considerable sum, but
an enterprise with such far reaching benefits
and one in which all can have individual
interests upon the co-operative plan,certain-
ly can, by the united effort of so large a
community as ours, combine the numerous
small efforts into one efficient whole. To
accomplish this it only needs that a com-
pany of active managers take the matter
in hand, and lay it before the people. It
is to be hoped that every Latter-day Saint
woman in Utah and adjacent settlements
will think on this subject, and use her in-
fluence in its behalf, that at no distant day
the result may prove a living success, and
inasmuch as the interests of the Latter-
day Saint men and women are ever mu-

[Column 3]

tual, it is also hoped that the brethren will
extend their influence and material aid in
promoting this much-needed and laudable
enterprise. In the meantime our only al-
ternative is for classes to form, and be taught
according to our best circumstances until
better facilities can be furnished.
			ROMANIA B. Pratt, M. D.


PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.

OF THE LADIES OF HYRUM.

	Whereas, We the women of the Church
of Jesus Chrsst of Latter-day Saints have
been misrepresented to the nations by
Christian Missionary Ladies dwelling in
our midst, in regard to our most holy re-
ligion. We do hereby declare most solemn-
ly our true sentiments.

	Resolved; that we the women of Hyrum
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints earnestly endorse the
sentiments of the ladies of Salt Lake, St.
George and other places that have reported
through the EXPONENT and with them
claim the privilege to practice the princi-
ples of our holy religion, and God being
our helper we will sustain and co-operate
with our husbands, fathers and sons in
obeying every principle of the gospel we
have embraced.

	Resolved; that we solemnly avow our
full faith in the doctrine of Celestial Mar-
riage established by the command of our-
Heavenly Father and knowing his promis-
es to the faithful, we endorse it as one of
the most important principles of our holy
religion and claim the right to put it in
practice.

	Resolved; that we will obey the com-
mands of God and leave the result with
him. That we protest against the enact-
ment of any law that deprives American
citizens, whether male or female of any con-
stitutional rights.

	Resolved; that we take this opportunity
to tender our thanks to the ladies of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association,
who have bravely defended our cause in
the halls of Congress, and that we appre-
ciate the labor of our own lady delegates
who have braved the world in defence of
our religion.

	Resolved; that we respectfully suggest
that those ladies opposed to our institutions
keep their sympathy for the poor unfortu-
nate outcast women and fatherless children
in the cities of the world, as we by the
help of God can take care of ourselves, and
don't need their assistance. We wish to
say that although we are late we are never-
theless in earnest and wish to have a
voice with the rest of our sisters.

		C. Liljenquist President,
		N. M. Neilsen,	} Secretaries.
		E. Wight,		}


MRS LYNN LINTON is engaged on a new
book that is shortly to be published. The
subject is the influence of clergy on women,
and the story is a fight between a husband
and a ritualistic cleagyman for influence
over the wife of the former.—EX.


A NEW paper edited by a woman is issued
at Louisville Kentucky by Mrs. H.E. Housh;
it contains reports of the work of women and
supports the idea that work is as honorable
for women as for men. Her son a young
man of seventeen years does her printing.
It is very neatly executed on fine paper.


218		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
NOBLE WORK FOR WOMEN.

	There has never been a reform of any sort in
the history of the world but has been met
with opposition. All new discoveries, of what-
ever name or nature, all new truths, no matter
what divine power they may possess, or what
elements of reform they may embody, or en-
gender, are sure to meet a storm of ridicule and
disputation. Every movement which makes
any advance, every new ray of light that
comes into the intellectual world, and irradi-
ates the darkness which has heretofore en-
shrouded the mind, is met with an opposing in-
fluence which it must have the courage to
overcome. Peradventure it is faint as a rush-
light, and the strong atmosphere of concentra-
ted ages snuffs it out, but the enthusiasm of
the individual, or individuals, which inspired
and made it glow even faintly rekindles it, and
by and by, after repeated effort, it gathers
sufficient vital force and power to shed its rays
abroad. A few who possess a latent spark of
the love of truth and light may gradually be-
come enlightened, and thus little by little the
reform, which grows out of new truths finding
place in the bosom of mankind, forces itself
upon society, and one by one the iron bars
which hedge in the old-time customs wear
away, and the revolution of a new age and the
inventions of its people are understood and
appreciated.
	There has never been any breaking away of
the silken cord which binds woman to the pro-
prieties and delicacies of that life which in
times gone by every mother marked out for her
daughter, saying, "Thus far shalt thou go and
no farther;" but some great alarm has been
raised, and the cry is heard, "stepping out of
her sphere," and evil prophecies and the de-
struction of home and total disregard of pro-
priety and womanliness are apprehended by
those who cannot bear to see the removal of
any old land-mark, but who desire to protect
women in their weakness and keep them
within the pale marked out by mankind in
past ages, ere they had so far advanced as to
appreciate or comprehend woman's ability, or
strength of soul. This is a new dispensation;
men should remember this fact, and women
too, and that this new dispensation is for wo-
man as well as man. Then, when men ad-
vance with rapid strides do they expect women
to stand still? If woman bears the noble souls
who are to reform and regenerate the earth,
she herself must possess, in a large degree, this
redeeming and regenerating power and influ-
ence to impart it to her posterity.
	Mechanism has supplied, in a wonderful de-
gree facilities for the farmer, the tradesman,
the man of business; has it done nothing to
favor woman? That would be unjust indeed—
but it is not so. The generation of women a
hundred years ago must not only perform ma-

[Column 2]
ternal and household duties, but must spin,
weave, dye, and afterwards knit and sew, make
and mend, and many other things that are not
now expected, or necessary. New inventions
have been made that lighten in an immense
degree the labor of this kind, once wholly per-
formed by hand. Man's work is thus lessened,
woman's housewifely duties are proportionate;
men have more time to devote to science and
literature, what then of women? Have they
not talents and gifts of a high order to develop?
Who will say us nay? Why then should a
limit be set to their culture, or a boundary to
their education? And above all else, why
should women themselves seek to draw tighter
the silken cord, because perchance not even a
rushlight of higher intelligence has entered
into their life, so shaded by the towering oak
to which they cling, that until the darkness of
the whole forest is illuminated they are unable
to discern, that here and there are lamps burn-
ing, with oil in them, but believe woman's
highest prerogative is to "learn of her husband
at home;" or perchance another class live in
constant fear of Mrs. Grundy. Is there not a
wide field of labor which it is scarcely possible
for men to comprehend, even if they had the
inclination? God has endowed woman with
faculties and instincts, with the right of con-
science inherent in her soul. No one doubts
the propriety of woman's being an active
member in the Church, in the Sunday School
and all benevolent organizations, but she must
step so far and no farther; and the moment she
does move a few steps in advance of her prede-
cessors she becomes the subject of ridicule, or
persecution; and for fear of this, many women
in all parts of the enlightened world remain
inactive and indifferent, and clog the wheels
of true progress. But women should awaken
to the duties and responsibilities which de-
volve upon them now, and not be afraid of be-
ing ridiculed or sneered at, or called "over-
religious." Goldsmith says in his "Citizen of
the World," "Persecution only serves to propa-
gate new religions; they acquire fresh vigor
beneath the executioner and the axe, and like
some vivacious insects, multiply by dissec-
tion."
	In the awakening of the sisters to duty there
seems to be hope for greater and higher culture
and progress in the church. If men and wo-
men will only work in harmony with each
other, and this must be done or no good can
possibly be accomplished. The brethren, the
Elders, those who proclaim the Gospel at home
and abroad, have done faithfully their work,
but their hands will be strengthened by the
help of women-workers, and their forces dou-
bled, and the husband who has upon his shoul-
ders heavy burdens to bear pertaining to the
duties of his high and holy calling, will not
need to spend his precious time to teach the
wife at home, but she herself will be qualified
to stand side by side with him, and from the
love of the work in which both are mutually
interested, they will bless and sustain each
other, and extend the helping hand to the
poor, the sorrowing and the tempted.
	Heretofore the laborers have been too few,
and it was not considered proper for woman to
teach her own sex, except in the schoolroom,
or in that which pertained to household work
and the care of children. But time, in its on-
ward march, has brought with it wondrous
changes, and some noble women have felt
impressed with a strong sense of duty and
"the still small voice" within which speaks to
all that they had a mission to fulfill, a work to
perform, and with the sweet memories of
childhood rising up before them, of a mother
who could touch their hearts as with a holy

[Column 3]
touch, have realized the woman-power that
might perhaps reach poor human hearts, with
a pathos and tenderness, and even an inspira-
tion, and minister, giving faith and hope to
those who yearn for help and encouragement.
	It is well known that Christian women "feed
the hungry, clothe the naked, shelter the
homeless;" why, then, is she not also fit to
minister spiritual food? The Prophet Joseph
said when he organized the sisters in the Re-
lief Society that their mission was not only to
relieve the wants of the poor, but to save souls.
And there are sisters living now, who have
heard him speak of the power and blessing
that should attend the sisters who were hum-
ble and faithful in these societies. Humility
is necessary; the Savior is the example for all,
He descended below all things, that He might
fulfill all righteousness. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS. 
	ON the 6th of the present month the Forty-
Ninth Annual Conference will be held in this
city. No doubt the fine weather will make it
a large and pleasant one. On Saturday, April
5th, will be the Quarterly Conference of this
Stake of Zion, and the Sisters are invited to at-
tend. We hope there will not be so many
empty benches as we saw there one year ago.
	WE WOULD say to our sisters who have sent
in reports of meetings held in the different
Wards of this city and elsewhere, that we have
published them as our space would permit and
shall continue to do so. We devote one page
always, and often more than one to R. S. Re-
ports. It is necessary to publish these reports
so that all may understand what is being done
in other organizations, and thus work in har-
mony. We intended mentioning the several re-
ports we have on hand at this present date, but
find them too numerous. This proves that the
sisters are doing a vast amount of work through
these organizations. We shall be glad to receive
original articles or essays for publication from
the sisters; we intend that the paper be mostly
filled with the writings of the sisters, but a few
selections from other papers are necessary, in
order to understand what women are doing
elsewhere. We designed to publish in this is-
sue Mrs. Stanton's opening address in Lincoln
Hall, at the N. W. S. A. Convention, Jan. 9.,
but it is crowded out this time.
	A QUARTERLY Conference of the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake of Zion
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 21 and 22,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne and her counselors pre-
siding. Friday morning: after the opening
exercises, which always consist of singing and
prayer, the Secretary read the report of the
Annual meeting held in December and the
Quarterly reports from the various branches of
the Society in the County. There were also
verbal reports from some of the societies. Fri-
day afternoon was occupied in hearing the
Presidents from the country settlements, many
of them giving excellent instruction, and each
and all reflecting credit upon themselves and
the Society they represented. Pres. Horne
and Mrs. E. B. Wells each gave a short ad-
dress, speaking of the present condition of so-
ciety and the great need of reform, and other
subjects suited to the occasion.
	Saturday morning: Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
presided. The meeting was devoted to hearing
from the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Associations of this Stake of Zion. The Secre-
tary read the minutes of the meeting in De-
cember, and all the reports which had been re-
ceived. Several organizations had not sent in
a written report. After the reports were read,


Pres. Eliza R. Snow nominated Mrs. Louie
Felt and Mrs. Clara Young Conrad as counsel-
ors to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. The vote in their favor was
unanimous. Pres. Freeze and Counselors Felt
and Conrad each made a few remarks, express-
ing their good desires and asking the faith of
the sisters to sustain them in this important
home-mission. Saturday afternoon: Mrs. M
I. Horne presided. Much good instruction was
given by the sisters who spoke. Pres. E. R.
Snow addressed the sisters on many subjects
pertaining to our lives here and hereafter. She
specially exhorted mothers to have their chil-
dren attend the Primary Associations, and said
that there they would be instructed in the
ways of the Lord. She alluded to home indus-
tries and other necessary labors which devolve
upon the Saints, The storing of grain was
another dnty woman had been called upon to
perform, which seemed a heavy responsibility,
and she felt great caution and wisdom wasneeded in the work. Coun. Zina D. Young
gave an excellent exhortation to mothers and
daughters, advocated the sericulture, and
urged the societies to set out mulberry trees as
a beginning. Alluded to the words of the late
President Brigham Young in the old Bowery,
the first year after the settlement here, when
he said the elements here were full of the ma-
terial necessary to the production of silk.
Pres. Horne made a few choice remarks, in
which she urged the sisters to take the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. Mrs. E. Bull, who has re-
cently returned from a visit to Europe, gave a 
graphic description of the places she visited in
England, and faithfully entreated the sisters
who had friends or relatives there desirous of
emigrating to help them out. Mrs. M. A.
House, of Grantsville, gave a short account of
the Relief Society work in Tooele Co., and
made other interesting remarks. Elder Joseph
E. Taylor spoke encouragingly to the sisters,
and dwelt eloquently upon the good works of 
women in this and other ages of the world.
Altogether this woman's Conference surpasses
any we have held hitherto. Much good coun-
sel has been given and the Spirit of God was in
the midst of the assembly. The meeting was
closed by singing part of the hymn "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning." The closing
prayer was offered by Elder J. E. Taylor, and
the Conference was adjourned to June 20 and
21. We trust that the Secretaries will be 
prompt in handing in reports early. The Sec-
retary, Mrs. E. Howard, has not yet prepared
for publication the Stake Statistical and Fi-
nancial report.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in West Jordan, Feb. 2, 1879, of in-
flammation of the lungs, Mary Ann Leather,
wife of William Leather. She was born in
England, March lst, 1814; was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints on the 24th day of December, 1850. She
emigrated with her husband to Utah in the
year 1866. The fune[-]al services were held in
the Social Hall in this place, where a large
concourse of people m[-]t and then followed the
remains to the grave.
	Sister Leather was a member of our Relief
Society. She lived the life of a true Latter-
day Saint, and died in full faith of the Gospel.
								M. G.

	DIED, in Evanston, Wyoming Territory, on
Tuesday, Feb. 11. 1879, aged 27 years, 5 months
and 11 days, Charlotte Elizabeth Edmisson,
daughter of William and Ma[-]y Ann Gingell,
born in Camden, Cook Co., Australia. She
embraced the Gospel in 1853 and emigrated to


Utah with her parents in 1857. She was an
active member of the Relief Society of Evan-
ston Ward since its organization in November
last. Her loss is deeply felt by her fellow-
members of the Society. She leaves a husband
and seven children.


MRS. SPENCER IN "WOMAN'S
WORDS."

	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, well-known to
the women of Utah through her good words
and works in their interest, and to women
everywhere for her material help in their ad-
vancement, and also as one of the editors of
"Woman's Words," has dissolved partnership
with Mrs. Juan Lewis, the orig[-]nal sole editor
of that interesting Journal, and in the March
number published her valedictory. It con-
tains, in strong, earnest language, some ideas
on the (so termed) "Woman Question," which
bespeak a new innovation, so entirely opposed
to the old accustomed groove in which women
have been accustomed to walk, that we cannot
forbear republishing a few extracts. It shows
something of the dissatisfac[-]ion which dwells
in the hearts of ihose who have an opportunity
of watching Congress.
	"A whole Congress of men have not suc-
ceeded in a century in providing satisfactorily
for the welfare of men. There is needed here,
at the heart of the nation, a perpetual CON-
GRESS OF WOMEN, to supp[-]ement, inspire and
ennoble the work of men in legislation; though
much more is it needed to represent the mani-
fold interests of women and children!  The
prophetic eye of woman discerned this long
ago, and influences have been at work to bring
it surely to pass.
	"Why wait for men, bewildered and blinded
by the material disasters they themselves have
wrought, to invite, or even permit mothers
and daughters of men to come to their own
capital and make and execute their own laws?
"The question need not be whether men will
permit us to join them in legislation, but
whether we will permit them to join us; for 
that a Congress of women is the more level-
headed and efficient body of the two, and does
more in less time for the genuine prosperity of
the country, has been abundantly demonstrated
by the six Congresses of Women already held
in New Yo[-]k, Syracuse, Chicago, Philadelphia,
Cleveland and Providence.
	There is among women wealth of culture,
intelligence; experience, insight. There may
be lack of determination; and they tell us there
is lack of money. Let the over-worked and 
the[-] under paid women of the country claim
th[-]ir one half or three quarters of the joint-
earnings of families, and the determination
and money may come together. Personal en-
ergy, high purposes, and inflexible determina-
tion have enabled large numbers of women to
assemble in conventions in various parts of the
world for many years. Let constituencies and
representatives of women in this country con-
centrate their scattered aims and forces upon
Washington, and the representation women
demand and need will be an accomplished
fact.
	"Taxes upon widow's houses have helped to
rear the capitol dome. Taxes upon alcoholic
d[-]inks, coined from the tears of worse than
widowed wives, have helped to rear the marble
s[-]af[-] that support the nation's Treasury. Wo-
men of America, why wait you to be called to
come and take possession of your own? Men
come here to do [-]h[-]se things wi[-]hout your per-
mission, come you without theirs, and inaugu-
rate such a r[-]ign of justi[-]e t[---]h, and univer-
sal love, that the earth will gladly heed your
counsels and own your sway."


UTAH COUNTY SILK ASSOCIATION.

	A general meeting of the Utah County Silk
Association was held in Provo Feb. 28th, 1879.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of previous meeting were read and
accepted.
	A report of the finances showed that there
had been $197.69 1/2 subscribed by the citizens of
Utah County in aid of the silk enterprise since
August 30th, 1878; one silk reel purchased and
about 50 pounds of cocoons.
	Prest. M. Hindley invited the sisters present
to speak their feelings in regard to raising silk
and to give a report of their doings in their 
various wards.
	Several sisters spoke of the increase of the
silk interest in the settlements. The people are
planting mulberry trees and preparing to raise
silk, believing that after a little experience it
will be as easy to raise silk as to set a hen, or
to dry fruit.
	It is the intention of the Association to buy
up all the cocoons in th[-] county (if possible)
and get them reeled before this year's silk is
ready, as it is considered best to have them
worked up while fresh.
	Sisters Zina D. Young, E. B. Wells, Z. Y.
Williams, and S. M. Kimball were present, and
each spoke a short time, encouraging the sisters
to raise silk and make this branch of home
manufacture successful. Advised them to color
the silk, to make handkerchiefs, mitts, stock-
ings, neck ties, veils, sewing silk, etc.
	Were pleased to see specimens of home in-
dustry and effort being made in practical seri-
culture; would like to see the sisters wearing
home-made silk dresses. Children can help in
the work. Plant the trees as near the house as 
possible, and keep them cropped down so as to
be handy for feeding.
	Pres. M. Hindley expressed her thankfulness
for the good meeting and valuable instruction.
Meeting adjourned until next Quarterly Con-
ference.
	M. HINDLEY, President,
	EMMA FEATAERSTONE, Secretary.


AS GEORGE ELIOT (Mrs. Lewes) has nev-
er had a photograph taken the great major-
ity of her admirers are compelled to view
her only through pen and ink sketches.
This "counterfeit presentment" is given by
a recent visitor: "She is a woman who
must have passed her fiftieth year. Her
hair is dark brown, and has none of those
silver threads one might expect where the
burden of half a century of years is added to
incessant labor, and experience full of deso-
lation. She is not at all handsome; her face
is long and very pale, with a small sensitive
mouth, eyes dreamy, introspective, and sad
always. Her hair is worn low over her
intellectual forehead, and her slender figure
has no robust energy about it. George
Eliot's is the energy of the mind, not of
physical power. She is one of the greatest
living conversationalists. She is one of the
most accomplished amateur pianists in
England, and a fine linguist, and seems to
know as much about the healing art as of
history and philosophy. What the witty
Mrs. French said of Madame de Stael—that
she is consolingly ugly—applies to George
Eliot; but her plain features are made
beautiful by her expression. She composes
slowly and methodically, not more than
sixty lines a day; and report says that when
she has completed a book her nervous ex-
haustion is such that her husband used to
take her abroad at once to recruit her fail-
ing health. While writing, she is most
scrupulously arranged as to surroundings
and person. She is not only a wonderful
author, but a clever housewife, and, her
home life is perfect in all its details."—The
American Home.


220		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				[For the EXPONENT.
THREE SCENES IN THE HISTORY OF
A DIAMOND NECKLACE.
BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The sun shone gloriously on the Parisian
Capitol, the birds sang joyously, bands of
music welcomed in the auspicious morning.
Notre Dame had its grand entrance thrown
open to admit the elite of France in a 
few hours—its altars decked with bouquets
of orange blossoms and other emblematical
flowers. The Tuilleries was alive with
human beings, that being the centre for the 
company to assemble. What was the event
of the day that had so excited that grand
city? The beautiful Hortense de Beauhar-
nais, the only daughter of the Empress Jo-
sephine, and the equally beloved adopted
child of Napoleon, Emporer of France, was
on that day to unite her destiny with Louis
Bonaparte, the Emperor's brother. This
she did in obedience to the wishes of her
mother and her adopted father. Before
this alliance was proposed to her she had
given her heart to a young officer of the
Court, and, singular enough, Louis had also
loved devotedly, believing he should make
the lady his wife; but the Throne had to
be strengthened by every available alliance,
and therefore this young couple had to be
laid upon the altar of sacrifice! and for their
obedience they were made King and Queen
of Holland.
	Hortense was reclining in her beautiful
and gorgeous dressing-rooms, listless and
unambitious. She had surveyed the mag-
nificent trousseau, the costly and elegant
presents, with which the adjoining room
was full. All the Court, all the elite of 
France had sent their tokens of love and 
fealty—but among them all there was not
one that bore the presentation of the Em-
peror! For the moment she felt hurt, but the 
second thought was "It will come, he will
not forget me."
	Her ladies and dressers stood around, at-
tiring her in the faultless bridal robe that
lay around. The Valenciennces lace dress
and costly bridal veil were ready to adorn
her person—all but the veil was now com-
plete, when a soft, gentle tap was heard up-
on the door. Who could it be at such a 
moment? The door was opened by a dresser
and the first lady in attendance approached
to receive the visitor. "The Emperor!"
she announced. Yes, it was he himself in
his robes of state! He held in his hand a 
casket of pure gold, and on the top of the
lid the monogram of Hortense, surmounted
by the imperial crown in diamonds of the
purest water—its worth? the ransom of a 
kingdom! He approached Hortense, and 
she arose to meet him with a smile. He
viewed her with intense love and admira-
tion, and imprinting a kiss upon her beau-
tiful forehead presented the love token he
had brought. The ladies had retired a lit-
tle, and now the Emperor waved them to
approach, calling upon the first lady in
waiting to open the casket and place the
carcanet upon the lovely neck of the Bride-
[-]lect! It was formed of diamonds of the
purest water, and was of priceless value;
the workmanship of the whole was exqui-
site and unique! When this was done
the bridal veil was thrown over her, and it
fell in all its elegance to the termination of
her dress. At that moment, she looked
more than mortal! she looked indeed a 
Queen, for she was beautiful, both in form
and feature! Napolean viewed her for a
moment with moistened eyes, for he loved
her sincerely, and then retired as he had

[Column 2]
entered, the lady acting the "Lord Cham-
berlain."
	In this act Napoleon displayed one of his 
grandest characteristics—that of being
original, being himself. He did not sum-
mon his grand chamberlain to bring his
golden salver on which to present his bridal
offering—no! his own hand carried it, and 
in person he presented it, as a father to his
child.

SCENE II.

	The Tuilleries is once again the scene of
action. In a retired room a gentleman is
seaetd at a small writing table. He is alone.
Writing materials are before him and the
pen is in his hand; thought seems to over-
power him, and appears to disable him from
carrying out the purpose for which he
seated himself. Had he intended to write
a farewell to his beloved ones? Was he
going to depict the agony of his soul? Was
it his last will and testament that he de-
sired to make palpable? All is unknown;
but there he sat as one paralyzed by con-
tending emotions, the mighty spirit bowed
down, the glorious dreams of ambition dis-
pelled. The loved ones were away from
him, yet he knew that one or two—yes,
three hearts were beating true as ever—one
true even unto death, waiting only for the
one word from his lips—Come! and she
would have walked into exile with him,
rejoicing gladly. There he sat alone, en-
gulfed in the whirlpool of his fallen for-
tunes! At this moment the door is softly
opened. He starts and slightly stamps his 
foot—who dare intrude upon this, his hour
of almost despondency? A woman! Yes,
a woman still young and still beautiful, but
lines of sorrow, of bereavement, of a yearn-
ing for love, had marked that once faultless
face, and told a tale that would have filled
a volume. In a moment Napoleon (for it
was he) recognized her! She glided to-
wards him, and kneeling clasped his knees,
and for a moment could not speak. Both
were silent, but oh! 'twas a silence that
spoke louder than words; at last she spoke
just above a whisper: "Sire, forgive me, do
not call me an intruder; let me say it is a 
mission of love the most devoted. Sire, I
want to condense the language of my full
soul, that I may say as few words as possi-
ble! Allow me a few moments to express
myself." Napoleon bowed assent. "Sire,
times have changed with us; you will re-
quire means; this casket and its contents I
have hoarded as your love-token to me
when you studied to make me great and
happy. Your love and goodness to me
would alone have been my 'exceeding great
reward;' this was but the index of it. It
contains a king's ransom! I shall never
wear it more, but you shall live in my
heart forever, and the thought that through
your love I am enabled to, perhaps, assist
you, will be the day-star of memory to my
saddened heart!"
	Napoleon trembled as with a palsy, (the
Hero of France, who had restored her from
the desolation of a mighty revolution and
elevated her to the highest pinnacle of
ambition and fame—the hero of many bat-
tles) and laying his hand upon her bowed
head as she knelt before him said: "No,
my beloved Hortense, I cannot take it;
keep it in remembrance of all the sweet
associations connected with it, and above
all of my love and appreciation of you; I
shall not need it, I am a soldier, and my
wants will be few."
	Hortense had hitherto commanded her
feelings, but at this repulse, though the re-
pulse of love, the deep fountains of heart
were broken up. She arose from her kneel-

[Column 3]
ing posture, she wept as when a child—and
well it was she did, for had tears not re-
lieved her she would have sunk in uncon-
sciousness at his feet. Napoleon arose also
—the strong man needed comfort as well as
the weak, loving woman! "My Hortense,"
he spoke with difficulty, "I appreciate your
love to me, it is a sweet balm that I will
carry with me into exile. Remember this 
in every hour of your future life, that I love
and appreciate all your love and obedience
to me." "Then let me entreat you, sire,
to accept this love token from me, as I ac-
cepted it from you. Accept it, and make
me happy!"
	Napoleon "groaned in spirit." "Hortense,
you unman me; say no more, I cannot bear
it; at this most trying hour of my life!"
Hortense again sank on her knees at his
feet. "Sire, forgive me; think only of my
love and admiration of you and accept my
offering, that I may be assured of your for-
giveness." She gently forced the casket
in his hands, and clasping them in both
hers she imprinted kisses on them, arose
noiselessly and glided from the apartment.

SCENE III.

	And now, my readers, let us in imagina-
tion transport ourselves for a few moments
to that bleak and barren spot, that God-
forsaken island springing up in the broad
Atlantic, St. Helena. I blush for England,
that amid her numerous strongholds—her
Gibralters, and others of like fortifications
—she could select no place for a fallen man,
who in dire necessity cast himself into her
hands, than such a prison as St. Helena,
and such a jailer as Sir Hudson Lowe! I
know of no public character in history that
I execrate as I do the vile, the low, the ig-
norant, the execrable Sir Hudson Lowe; I
would say strike off his spurs of knight-
hood, he is utterly unworthy of them! But
he has gone to his ancestors, and the Lord
says, "I will repay."
	On this dreadful island did Napoleon drag
out the remaining years of his eventful life,
made wretched by the very man who had
it in his power to make the path of life
tolerable at any rate, but who took advan-
tage of that power to afflict, to annoy, to
intrude upon the man whose name the na-
tions had bowed to, and who, if in his
mighty course could be found some evil,
did a vast, a mighty amount of good.
	In idea we enter this forlorn, barn-like
habitation; in idea we find ourselves in a
room old, barren even of common comforts,
the walls stuffed with old tapestry, or any-
thing to keep out the cold, bleak winds; on
one side is a camp bed with faded white
silk curtains, and an ample military cloak
covers the bed, beneath which lies a man
in the last stage of a long, wearying, wear-
ing disease, brought on and accelerated by
the cruel treatment he had received. A
devoted friend, devoted even unto death,
sits beside the bed, watching if in any way
he may give ease to the sufferer, or receive
any commands he may desire to make.
This friend, General Montholon, was one
of the noble five generals who went into
voluntary exile with him, whom they had
delighted to serve under. Life is ebbing
fast away; the feverish dream of earthly
life will soon be over! The mind of the
sufferer wanders—again he is leading on his
men; again he gives the charge at the head
of his forces! Now all is still, he sleeps for
a moment. He wakes calm and collected;
he looks around and calls "Montholon."
He answers, "Sire, I am here, what can I
do for you?" "Monthonlon, I am passing
away; give me your hand; thou, with Les
Cases and others, have been true and faith


ful to me, even unto death, and I bless you
all for your fidelity. The dream of earthly
life is over for me; you all have voluntarily
shared my exile, God will reward you.
When I am gone you will return home, and
your last days will be your best days; re-
member me. Montholon, a few more
words: when death closes my eyes slide
your hand under my pillow; there you will
find a diamond necklace! it has quite a his-
tory and is of immense value. Keep it
safely in your own possession until you re-
turn to France; then seek out Hortense,
the Ex-Queen of Holland, and deliver it
yourself into her own hands. Tell her that,
like Jacob, I took those stones for my pillow,
and they were to me a Talisman, given by
love and holiest feelings of human nature.
Even these stones will rise up and speak to
her of me. Montholon, I have no more
to say. Give me both your hands, and God
be with you.” 

 ACROSTIC.

Now the hero bows his head, 
And now he joins the MIGHTY DEAD?
Permit, O God, his soul to flee 
On mercies wings to rest and thee.
Let no base slander cloud his fame,
Evict each stigma from his name;
On Thee for justice we rely,
Nor fear thou wilt the boon deny.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		221


[Column 1]
			LETTER

	FLORIDA HOUSE, ST. AUGUSTINE,
						March 8, 1879.

DEAR AUNT EM:

	I had resolved to defer this letter until
arriving at Jacksonville, the end of my trip
down the St. Johns river, but here at St.
Augustine my interest is at its zenith, and 
fearing that it may fall during the latter
part of my trip, I shall begin with the in-
cidents and scenery in which I have been
rapt intervening between Jacksonville
and St. Augustine. We embarked on the 
steamer "Pastime" for a three days' trip
up the St. John's River. It merits more
the name of an arm of the sea than that of
a river, as it is effected by the tide at its
very source. Its flow is almost impercepti-
ble, and in width it varies from one-half to
three or four miles. We left Jacksonville
in the beautiful afternoon of last Wednes-
day. Nothing of note occurred on that
afternoon sail, but we enjoyed immensely
the grandeur of the scenery through which
the river gently bends its winding way.
On each bank the lofty pines, with a net-
work of shrubbery clinging at their feet,
afford an almost impenetrable barrier to the
unknown interior, and increase two-fold
their mass in the reflection they cast upon
the glassy surface of the water. Here and
there along the sides the "cracker's" ax has
paved the foundation of his little home, and 
his well-planned orange grove, with its
yellow fruit, gives a cheerful change to the
would-be sameness of the vegetation.
	In one of the river bends we pass the
"modest mansion" of Mrs. H. B. Stowe—a
little house, almost hidden in its adjacent
orange grove. We travel till dark, but
the moon arising as the sun goes down
scarcely makes distinction of the night and 
day.
	In the evening we land at some remote
hotel, whose patronage and style Fifth Ave-
nue might covet. Here the Cuban plays his
festive harp, the traveling traps are cast
aside, and dress suits donned, and sun-
browned faces mingle in the "hop."
	Night passed and breakfast over, the
pleasure-seekers crowd the boat again. "A
change comes over" the shape of things,

[Column 2]
and where the lofty pine was yesterday
now the spreading cypress shades its poison-
ous limbs. Glistening rifles shine upon the
steamer's deck, ugly alligators sleep along
the shore, and as the sun grows warm the
sport begins, and excitement rages as the
bullets fly, and only ceases when the river
gently draws its banks beyond the rifles'
range, and unconscious fades into a little
lake. Now vegetation takes a different
form, and the palmetto, rearing on its white
and polished trunk, shades the water with
its umbrella top. From these great flocks
of curious birds and reptiles send out their
hideous screams and take the rifle from the
sleeping alligators. Still the vegetation
changes, and the magnolia and centaury
plants claim their different beds in the gar-
den of flowers. Night comes on; another
"hop," and we return from whence we
came, and along the banks count the with-
ering prey of yesterday. Now we leave
the boat, and an hour's ride on a rickety
train brings us to still more rickety St. Au-
gustine. And here, the oldest cradle of
the Union, in which the conquering Span-
iard, Juan Ponce de Leon, in his search for
the fountain of youth, laid his lovely head,
before the Pilgrim Fathers peopled Ply-
mouth Point, is what I hope will interest
you most.
	Here is where the consumptive Northerner,
who but a week ago muffled in his ulster
and arctics at home, now lounges in his
duster and slippers. Here is where the
now free negro finds a home in the moul-
dering prison walls of what was once a 
Spanish Fort. In St. Augustine a few hotels
and winter residences are the only signs
that mark the changes of centuries. 'Tis
verging on to three hundred years since the 
foundation of the old Fort was laid. I
visited it to-day, and as I saw it I will de-
scribe it.
	The material of which it is built seems to
be hewn out of fish shells which are formed
into solids by the tide along the shore. A
battery of this substance faces the sea on
three sides forming the outer wall. This
wall surrounds a second wall built in a cir-
cle, with little star-like corners all around.
These two walls form a protection to the
inner fort. Between the inner wall and
the sides of the fort is a trench about
twenty-five feet deep and thirty feet wide,
which seems to have been filled with water.
The sides of the fort tower above the outer
walls thirty or forty feet, and the whole
mass presents the appearance of a crum-
bling ruin. To enter the fort the trench
mentioned is crossed by a bridge; on the en-
trance is the Spanish "coat of arms," almost
faded away by time, and under it is inscribed,
almost too dim to read, "Ferdinando Sexto,"
which marks the structure's age. The in-
terior is a complete catacomb of dungeons.
Each dungeon seems to be carved into the
shelly substance, and connects with its ad-
jacent hole by a door, on whose massive
hinges and iron bolts cling the rotten rem-
nants of decaying wood. Here and there,
sticking out from the solid floor, or wall, a
rusty cannon shows its terrible mouth, and
the oval surface of what seems to have been
a cannon ball forms a stumbling block in 
the floor. No ray of light can penetrate
these dungeons, and the disclosure of 1835
tells what they once held. The wall of one
fell in, and tumbled down with it some iron
cages in which were found human bones.
Other secrets of their history are known, and
which I am promised to be informed of be-
fore leaving. After leaving the dungeons
we ascend the walls on what were once
steps, but now smooth stone, worn by con-
stant passage, and thence on to the lookout,

[Column 3]
which command a view of the whole town,
and shows up streets that one can jump
across, and houses built so close to each other
that now the crumbling ruins join together.
All are made of these shells carved out in
the shape and size of our adobies, and called
coquina. The whole town covers now an
area of about half a mile, and has covered
the same area for three hundred years, and
possibly will never change till it gradually
vanishes by the wear of time. Such is St.
Augustine and a trip up the St. John's 
river.
	*		*		*		*		*		*
	I could write nothing more that would
be of interest to you, except possibly a trip
through the Southern States, or a descrip-
tion of quaint old Charleston, but having
enjoyed my St. John's trip and view of St.
Augustine, I could not forbear describing it
to you, and I hope our tastes do not so
widely differ as to make it unpleasing to
you.	*	*	*
	I am yours very truly,
								JOE.


[For the EXPONENT.
		PIPSEY PAPERS.—No. 10.

	Mrs. Blake’s remarks regarding the cele-
bration of “Forefathers’ Day” are highly
interesting. We had so long heard the cry
about the “women of Utah” and their cruel
and barbarous treatment, that we ought to
have supposed women in other parts of this
“Glorious Republic” were petted and hon-
ored past anything we were capable of un-
derstanding, or appreciating. As I read
and observe such matters I am led to be-
lieve that in contrasting their position with
our own, the balance shows in our favor.
The idea of a dinner or celebration of any
kind being carried out without the assist-
ance of the ladies would seem to us very
absurd, as it has not yet come within the
range of our experience. We may readily
suppose that the men of Utah are very fond
of the ladies. They prove it in private life
by their extensive relationship and their
willingness to protect and support so many
wives; in public no enjoyment is considered
complete without their presence. Even in
the celebration of the national birthday the
ladies hold a conspicuous part. In com-
memorating the first settlement of the val-
leys it is not forgotten that the women of
Utah shared the hardship of the brethren;
not only with the pioneers, but in the weari-
some march of the Mormon battalion were
the ladies in the foremost ranks. They
have so long held prominent positions in all
matters, both religious and political, that it
is no doubt quite time Uncle Sam interfered
to keep them from taking the leading
strings into their own hands.
	Her ideas regarding the purity of her
brethren seem somewhat clouded. We
hear many insinuations and accusations
made of a like nature, which leads us to
suppose that the ladies of the East have
not unbounded faith in the chastity of their
husbands, or of mankind in general. Per-
haps experience and observation serve to
strengthen their ideas. It is different with
us, we have the fullest confidence in the fi-
delity of our “liege lords,” and of all our
brethren; our knowledge of their lives both
in public and private strengthen our opin-
ions.
	Provo.					MARY.


A WESTERN editor, in response to sub-
scribers who grumble that the paper is in-
tolerably damp, says it is "because there is
so much due on it."


222		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MASS MEETING IN FILLMORE.

	The ladies of Millard County Stake met
in Mass Meeting, for the purpose of pro-
testing against the Anti-Polygamy Crusade.
	Mrs. Belinda M. Pratt was elected Chair-
man, Mary M. Lyman Secretary, and Me-
lissa Brown Assistant Secretary. Choir
sang, "Awake, ye defenders of Zion."
Prayer by Adelia A. Kimball. Sang, "Let
those who would be Saints indeed."
	Mrs. B. M. Pratt: "My dear sisters and
friends, the Anti-Polygamy ladies of Salt
Lake City have entered upon a Crusade
against Plural Marriage, and have addressed
themselves to the Christian women and
clergy of the United States, also to the 
Senate and House of Representatives, to
make effective the Anti-Polygamy Law of
1862, setting before them the great crime
of Polygamy, falsely misrepresenting and
wishing to deprive us of our rights as citi-
zens, wives, mothers and children. And
shall we sit idly down and not vindicate our
cause? God forbid! Let us lift up our
voices with one accord in behalf of this
great principle which our Heavenly Father
has revealed for the exaltation of the hu-
man family. I know by the revelations of
His Holy Spirit that He has given unto me
that this principle is true and emanated 
from Him; and that which He has esta-
blished He is able to preserve. The Gov-
ernment of the United States is great and
powerful, but He Who rules above is greater,
and in Him we trust. This principle is
holy and from God, and though all nations
should legislate against it, yet He will pre-
serve and uphold it and bring to naught all
their schemes and plans. We will not fear
what man can do, but walk humbly before
our God, and in the end gain eternal life,
which is the greatest of all blessings."
	Very spirited speeches were given by
the following ladies: Delilah King Olsen,
Martha Bennett, Sarah L. Partridge, Adelia
Kimball, Eliza Lyman, Angeline Hinckley,
Helen Callister, Abigail Stephens, Henrietta
Powell, Emma J. Bennett, Ann J. Bennett,
Huldah Teeples; A. J. Pratt, Jean Hol-
brook, Sarah Davis, Emily Ralph, Elizabeth
Thompson, Catherine Wilcox, Lemira Rob.
inson, R. T. Stephenson, Bird Robison,
Caroline Lyman, Eliza Wicker, Mary A.
McBride, Minnie Anderson, Columbia Mc-
Bride, Ann Ashman, Lizzie Partridge and
Emily Crane.
	Report of Mass Meetings held in Scipio
and Deseret Wards were then read. Song,
"The trumpet of our foeman."
	The preamble and resolutions which were
adopted by the Ladies of Salt Lake City
were read, with the following additional
resolution:
	Resolved, That we will not fellowship or
associate with those in our own community
who have given aid and support to the acts
and doings of the Gentile ladies of Salt
Lake City, by circulating and signing the
petition against Polygamy.
	Singing, "Guide us, O Thou great Jeho-
vah." Benediction by Pres. I. M. Hinck-
ley.
		M. M. LYMAN,	} Secretaries.
		F. M. BROWN,	}


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Miss Laura Caillard, whose melancholy
and mysterious death is creating so great a
sensation in Wiltshire, is a relation of Lord
Beaconsfield, for her mother was the grand-
mother of Mr. George Basevi, of Brighton,
the Premier's uncle. Her father is the
country-court judge in Wiltshire, and resid-


es in the pleasant village of Wingfield on
the Frome.

	It will make some middle-aged people
feel very old to hear that the Princess Roy-
al, who was born within their remem-
brance, has already become a grandmoth-
er. through her daughter, the Heredit-
ary Princess of Saxe-Meiningen, her
Majesty the Queen is a great-
grandmother before she is sixty. Up
to this time no Queen of England has
ever lived to see her great-grandchildren;
but her Majesty may now reasonably hope
to be a great-great-grandmother and to see
her grandchildren's grandchildren.—Ex

	THE death of the Princess Alice has been
felt and deplored at Berlin even more than
in London, and the details of her illness
are still the one absorbing topic of conver-
sation in every class of society. Great dis-
satisfaction is expressed in the highest
diplomatic circles at the supineness of her
medical attendants, and Sir. William Jen-
ner is loudly blamed for not having insist-
ed on her immediate removal, at all haz-
ards, from the infected air of Darmstadt,
when it was evidently her only chance of
life. His experience of the disease in Eng-
land made him suggest this course; but he
suffered himself to be overruled by his Ger-
man colleagues, who were afraid, forsooth,
of the invalid catching cold! It was proved
last year at Uppingham that change of air
is almost a specific cure for diphtheria; for
when the complaint broke out in the school
every single case which was locally treated
ended in death whilst every boy who was
removed to his own home recovered, with-
out exception. Removal in the last stage
of prostration is, of course, a forlorn hope;
but it succeeds so often that the Princess's
physicians will never be forgiven for their
cowardice in not trying the experiment.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace.  Ties a large
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.
Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
		3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, - - 3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) - -35 Cents each
Brooms, - - 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO 
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY  The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents eac[-]
and upwards.
Please forward all orders to
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
Salt Lake City.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodat[-] her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49  MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine her stock of [-]ats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
		JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake [-]City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

