VOL. 7. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15, 1879. 	No. 16.


[For the EXPONENT.
A VOICE WITH INSTRUCTION.

A voice has gone forth from the Zion of God,
Not loud, but 'tis deep, ye can hear it abroad;
'Tis the voice of her daughters, who rise in the name
Of Jehovah, and fling back the stigma of shame
They are striving to throw on the noblest and best
That have planted their homes in the land of the West.

Better take from their own eyes the beam that is there;
Hush first in Columbia the cry of despair
That comes from the desolate children of shame,
That are found in their streets with no home and no
	name;
And give to their daughters the crown they have lost—
Their virtue give back, or fearful's the cost.

For a cry has gone up to the throne of our God
From the mothers' wrecked hearts crushed down to the
	sod;
And their tears o'er their desolate hearthstones are shed
For their loved ones so fallen, their bright hopes so dead;
And the wail of the lost ones ascendeth on high,
And vengeance on man, the destroyer, is nigh;

They offer "protection"—our fathers are here,
Our husbands and brothers and all we revere;
We have proved them before, we will trust them again,
When they fail to aid us, our God will sustain.
Ye war with Jehovah, O perishing man,
'Tis He who commanded us, He's in the van.

You may marshall your hosts, but they'll vanish away
Like mist from the mount neath the sun's golden ray,
For the kingdom will stand, as Daniel foretold,
And the Banner of Truth is forever unrolled;
Then gather around it, ye valiant and brave,
In God is our trust, He is mighty to save.

	HOPE.


[Column 1]		
		[For the EXPONENT.
	JOSEPHINE, WIFE OF NAPOLEON I,
	AND EMPRESS OF FRANCE.

		          BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is something in the biographies of
celebrated men and women that is ever
most interesting and instructive. In read-
ing them they hold up, as it were, a mir-
ror by which we can compare ourselves in
some measure, though with a difference.
We see how they have enjoyed, how they
have suffered, how bravely they have strug-
gled through the battle of life, and how
admirable and worthy of imitation they
have been through all.
	The Empress Josephine is one of those
characters! Her life is full of singular and
extraordinary events, even to a perfect ro-
mance. Her career was upward, till she
stood the most exalted woman in Europe—
yes, the world! Her beauty, her grace and
elegance, her refinement, her affability to
all, whether high or low, won friends for
her in every phase of her chequered life;
even in prison, awaiting the announcement
of her death warrant under the command
of Robespierre, the presiding demon of the
great French revolution, this delightful
affability never forsook her, and she was
the comforter and the soother of all the la-
dies who were her companions in the prison.
In all these awful scenes she was ever a
noble, sweet, womanly woman. But I an-
ticipate.
	She was born at St Pierre, the capital of
Martinico, on the 23d of June, 1757. Her
mother dying early, she was reared by an
aunt, who loved her as her own child. She
received a liberal education and some ac-

[Column 2]
complishments. The harp was her favorite
instrumeut; she was a beautiful reader, her
voice being sweet and harmonious; like
the harp of David on the troubled mind of
Israel's King, this charm is known to have
wrought powerfully upon Napoleon; his
own admission was, "The applause of the
French people sounded to my ear sweet as
the voice of Josephine."
	She was walking one day when very
young with a party of young ladies, when
they observed a woman engaged in telling
the fortunes of a party of young girls who 
had gathered round her.  When Josephine
and her party drew near, the sybil, as soon
as she saw her, uttered a loud exclamation,
and almost by force seized her hand; she
appeared greatly agitated. Josephine was
amused, and said: "Do you discover any-
thing extraordinary in my destiny?" She
answered, "Yes; you will be married early;
that union will bring you sorrow, and you
will become a widow; and then—you will
become Queen of France!" She thought
of it only to laugh at; but as time rolled
on, the words became so impressed upon
her by the events of her young life, that
she came to regard their fulfillment as a
matter of course. On the completion of
her sixteenth year she became the wife of
Vicomte Alexander de Beauharnais. This
was the first step in her destined greatness.
She loved this man with all the devotion
of her nature, and he was equally devoted
to her.  She had two children, a son and
daughter, and these children seem to have
been almost idolized by their parents. Her
son was called Eugene, and afterwards be-
came the Viceroy of Italy; her daughter,
Hortense, became subsequently Queen of
Holland.
	Now were rehearsed the scenes of that
great and awful revolution which engulfed
France! Beauharnais belonged to the aris-
tocracy, and that was sufficient to bring him
under a ban. He was arrested by order of
the committee and thrown into prison, ac-
cusing him of a conspiracy. During this
sad period Josephine and her children ex-
perienced great privation, but her kind
aunt took them to her home and provided
for them. At this time there were daily
executions of innocent persons—a blood-
thirsty spirit had possession of the rulers
of the revolution. Josephine was herself
seized and thrown into prison—the Con-
vent of the Carmelites. During these days
of agony nearly eight thousand individuals
were deliberately slaughtered by a Jaco-
bine mob in the various prisons of Paris,
and in a few weeks the husband of Joseph-
ine, unheard, untried, and nothing proved
against him, save the suspicion of bad men,
was ordered for execution, and on the 24th
of July, 1794, it was carried into effect! A
few hours only snatched Josephine from
death; the warrant had been issued, and
she must have died on the morrow had not
the Dictator, the wicked, cruel Robespierre,
fallen on the night of the 26th.
	Josephine received the last letter of her
husband, with a lock of his hair that he
had purchased from the executioner for her,
some weeks after his death, and after read-
ing it and copying it for her aunt, she add-
ed: "Yes, I will live to cherish his memory,

[Column 3]
to educate our children, to love you much,
my dear aunt, and my friends a little!"
The same day she received the knowledge
of her husband's fate she was told to hold
herself in readiness for death, as she was
to be removed to the Conciergery on the
10th, and thence to the guillotine. Several
ladies were her companions in the awful
prison of the Conciergery, and hearing the
order to Josephine to prepare for death they
were lamenting and weeping dreadfully.
At length Josephine exclaimed that there
was not even common sense in their grief;
that she should not die, but should yet be-
come Queen of France! One of the ladies
then said, with something of resentment,
"Why, then, do you not appoint your
household?" "Ah! that is true," exclaimed
Josephine, "I had forgotten. Well, my
dear, you shall be maid of honor—I prom-
ise you the situation." Upon this all the
ladies wept more, for they thought her
trials had disturbed her reason. Josephine
told this in after years to her ladies, and
added that she did not affect a courage which
she did not feel, for she felt persuaded that
her oracle was about to be realized. After
her release from prison she and her chil-
dren suffered much poverty and privation,
and were relieved by kind friends, chiefly
ladies. She says: "To Madame Dumolin
I was indebted for daily bread."
	Time rolled on. Napoleon had in a mea-
sure redeemed France from the fearful state
consequent upon the revolution. Josephine
had met him once or twice in assemblies,
and been introduced to him, but no inti-
macy had been formed between them. At
this time Bonaparte was made General-in-
chief of the army of the Interior, and Com-
mandment of Paris. In this latter capacity
it was that the new General first obtained a
particular interview with Josephine. As
Military Governor of the Capi[-]al he had
been charged with disarming the citizens.
In this way the sword of the Vicomte de
Beauharnais had come into the possession
of General Bonaparte.
		To be continued.


THE DECISION of the Supreme Court,
confirming that of the Supreme Court of
this Territory declaring the anti-polygamic
law of 1862 constitutional, occasioned con-
siderable surprise in this community. Not
that the Latter-day Saints expected any
particular leniency from the government of
which they form a part their past history,
written in their own blood, partly, showing
them too well what they might expect as a
final issue of the matter but it was sup-
posed that the palpable inaccuracies which
marked the Reynold's trial here would
come to the notice of the Supreme Court
of the nation, and that on these discrepan-
cies the case would be remanded for new
trial. But the constitutionality of the law
of 1862 is now established. "What are you
going to do about it?" is the question now
put to the "Mormons." What we have
ever done trust in Almighty God, who
rules the destinies of nations and protects
all who love and serve Him from those who
seek their overthrow. We do not fear the
issue, for we now appeal from earth to hea-
ven, from man to man's Creator.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	PANGUITCH, Dec. 20th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Wednesday, Nov. 6th, some of the
members of our Relief Society met at
their Hall to enjoy a picnic party, the ob-
ject being a surprise to our President, Mrs.
Myria Henrie, as they had prepared a birth-
day present for her, consisting of a nicely
wrought inscription on card board, which
read as follows: "Nov. 1st, 1878. A birth-
day present from Panguitch Relief Society
to their President, Myria Henrie, born Nov.
1st, 1803," and a suitable verse.
	After its presentation, Sister Henrie arose
and expressed her gratitude to the sisters
for this unexpected token of their respect.
Said her only object in wishing to live was
to do good. Told us she had 77 grandchil-
dren and 16 great-grandchildren.
	Encouraging and appropriate remarks
were then made by Bishop G. W. Sevy and
Elder J. W. Crosby, Jr.
	The party was a success; all seemed
pleased with the entertainments of the oc-
casion.
	On the 17th inst. the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association was re-organized
with the following named officers:
	Alice Dickensen, President,
	M. E. Steele,
	Sarah Marshall, 	Counselors.
	Mamie Heywood, Secretary.
		MARY B. HEYWOOD, Sec'y.

	DEWEYVILLE, Nov. 4th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Third Annual meeting Aug.
6, 1878. There were present from Brigham
City President Harriet A. Snow, Susan
Booth, Mary Snow and Sisters Alice and
Abagail Rosenbaum, who all gave us good
instructions. Bishop Dewey and his Coun-
selors were present and gave words of en-
couragement to the sisters. We had a good
meeting and enjoyed the Spirit of God. A
party was given in the evening for the
benefit of the Society, which was well at-
tended, and a spirit of sociability prevailed.
	We hold our meetings every Thursday,
working and speaking meetings alternately.
We have donated to the Logan Temple $20
in quilts and socks; we have 65 bushels of
wheat bought with the proceeds of our
Sunday eggs, and 22 bushels donated by the
Society; sundry articles now on hand worth
$10. Number of meetings held in one
year, 29. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT is a
welcome visitor in our meetings.
	May the blessings of God attend the Re-
lief Societies, is the prayer of your sisters,
	MARY DEWEY, Pres't.
	ELIZA HOWARD, Sec'y.

	JOHNSON, KANE Co., UTAH,
		Dec. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized Janu-
ary 25th, 1878.
	Jane C. Johnson, President,
	Mary Ann Johnson
	Louisa Shunway, 	Counselors.
	Contradenia A. Johnson, Secretary,
	Ettie A. Johnson, Assistant Secretary.
	We have 28 members enrolled, 18 aver-
age attendants; all seem to be alive to their
duty, and feel an interest in the good cause
in which they have enlisted. We meet
for working meeting every two weeks, and

[Column 2]

have meeting for spiritual improvement
once a month. We have been piecing
quilts, making gloves, knitting socks, also
quilting, and sewing carpet rags. We all
have the spirit of storing wheat and beans;
we have but little on hand at present, but
hope soon to have more. We have in trea-
sury, Sundries, $15; cash, $4.45; wool 10 lbs;
wheat 5 1/2 bu. All feel the importance of a
Relief Society, and with the help of our
Heavenly Father we hope to keep His Spir-
it and prosper in our labors.
	I had the privilege of attending a wo-
man's Conference for the first time; we had
a very pleasant time and all felt well, and
hope to be able to attend many more such.
	In reading of the Woman's Mass Meet-
ing held in the Theatre it made my heart
rejoice to read of the good and wise doings
of our tried sisters, and believe it will have
a great influence with Congress. We know
that God is at the helm and will reign su-
preme.
	Praying the Lord to bless all the sisters
in their good works, I remain as ever
your sister in the Gospel,
	JANE C. JOHNSON.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After a silence of some considerable
time, I thought I would like to mingle my
voice once more with the rest of my sisters
and bear my testimony to the laying on of
hands. A can say for onethat I have been
sick and "nigh unto death," and have had
the Elders of this Church lay their hands
on my head, and the Lord has made mani-
fest His power.  I can truly say that I know
that this is the work of God, set up in these
last days no more to be thrown down; and
when I read of the great calamities of these
last days it causes me to rejoice to think I
have had the privilege of embracing the
new and everlasting Gospel which has been
established, and to think I have come to
Zion where we can serve the Lord.  I feel
truly thankful to my parents for this, for it
is through their teachings and example
that I am here.  My parents joined the
Church when I was but six months old, and
have endured much for the sake of the
Gospel for the thirty-six years that they
have been in this Church.  I have never
heard them murmur against any principle,
but ever willing to press on for the reward
that awaits the faithful.
So, dear sisters, let us put aside all things
that may appear as trials, and let us try and
be as one great family, for our heavenly
Father has said "Unless ye are one ye are
none of mine."  Then let us lay aside all
selfishness and be as one.  If we only knew
what blessings were in store for all the
faithful when their work on earth is done,
we would hardly have patience to wait for
the time when we shall pass from this vain
world.
May God help us to do right and keep
His commandments, that we may at last
be crowned with all the faithful, is the sin-
cere prayer of your humble sister in the 
Gospel of Christ,          J. G.


PROVO CITY Jan. 8th
	The Primary Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation of the Fourth Ward was organized
Oct. 12th 1878. With Mrs. Hannah Booth
President, Emma Cluff and Jane Snyder
Counselors. H. Harrowsmith and H. Birch
assistants, and Nancy Hares Secretary.
	There are in the association 125 members.
Average attendance 80; meetings held 12;


the mode of conducting is as follows: Sing-
ing, prayer, singing, roll call, minutes of
former meeting read and accepted, address
by the President with general instructions,
local questions with counsel and advice by
E. Cluff, history of Joseph Smith or Bible
stories by J. Snyder, select reading with
explanation by H. Harrowsmith, general
remarks by H. Birch and N. Hares. The
children are then called to recite the Ten
Commandments, Articles of Faith, Restora-
tion of the Gospel and the names of the
presiding high Priesthood. Then those
selected at the former meeting come for-
ward and recite their pieces. Singing
prayer and adjournmnet. The children are
delighted with their meeting. Next week
it is proposed to give them a little dance
the picnic to be furnished by the president
her counselors and assistants.
	J. B. F.


RESPONSIBILITY OF MOTHERS.

	How few mothers realize the responsi-
bility of their position. To them a soul
has been given to train for a higher exist-
ence—a pure soul, and if it becomes stained,
blackened, or withered, whose is the fault?
Little sins like little weeds take root rap-
idly, and will grow and choke out all the
sweet blossoms of truth and innocence, un-
less the mother, with an ever watchful and
prayerful heart, sets them an example
worthy of imitation. How many mothers
see their children grow up from childhood
to man and womanhood, a disgrace to soci-
ety? Need we ask who is to blame, when
the good old book we are taught to believe
in says if parents will train their children
in the way they should go, when they
reach maturity it will not depart from
them. If mothers have a desire to rejoice
at the harvest, let them sow the seeds of
wisdom and righteousness while they can.
								S. A.
	Eleventh Ward, Salt Lake City.


ELEMENTS OF A HOME.—I never saw a
garment too fine for man or maid; there
never was a chair too good for a cobbler, or
cooper or king to sit in; never a house too
fine to shelter a human head. These ele-
ments about us, the gorgeous sky, the im-
perial sun, are not too good for the human
race. Elegance fits man. But do we not
value these tools of housekeeping a little
more than they are worth, and sometimes
mortgage a home for the mahogany we
would bring into it? I had rather eat my
dinner off the head of a barrel, or dress
after the fashion of John the Baptist in the
wilderness, or sit on a block all my life,
than consume all myself before I get a
home, and take so much pains with the
outside that the inside is as hollow as an
empty nut. Beauty is a great thing, but
beauty of garments, house and furniture, is a
very tawdry ornament compared with do-
mestic love. All the elegance in the world
will not make a home, and I would give
more for a spoonful of real hearty love than
for whole ship loads of furniture, and all
the gorgeousness that all the upholsterers
of the world could gather together.—Theo-
dore Parker.


THE duration of our passions is no more
dependent upon us than the duration of our
life.
	As we must render an account of every
idle word, so must we likewise of our idle
silence.—Ambrose.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
	MY VISION.

DEDICATED TO MRS M. A. C.

I sat slow rocking this evening,
	The fire burned low in the grate,
The rooms deserted and silent,
	The hour was lonely and late.
With swift, noiseless wings, my spirit
	Barred up all the mortal within,
Purged out, for only an hour,
	My human inheritance—Sin.

A noise of soft pattering feet,
	That glide with faint sound o'er the floor:
My spirit-eyes open, and lo!
	Four angels come in at the door!
And softly they crowd around me,
	With faces uplifted and fair,
Their baby-arms clasp above me—
	They lovingly stroke my hair.

Sweet beings of other worlds,"  I ask,
	"Do ye know how lonely are we?
How much the mother who bore ye
	Longs ever her darlings to see?
Oh, can ye not come and whisper
	Your love to that fond mother's heart?
Oh, can ye not visit her often,
	And help her to bear her part?"

Then up spake the fairest and tallest—
	Whose head was laid on my breast--
"You ask us to come to our mother,
	And give her sad heart sweet rest,
But do you not know how endless
	Eternity's ages are?
How few the brief moments of time,
	Which fly like a meteor star?

"We've dwelt in ages unnumbered
	With God, and to Him were true;
And though we were sent to this earth,
	We returned when our mission was through.
We love the dear mother who bore us,
	And watch, with tenderest care,
Her life so noble and pure,
	And record it with pride up there.

"Go! tell her how fondly we wait her,
	To come to our heavenly home;
And whisper, The watch-care that guards her
	Will follow where'er she may roam.
Our duty now calls us, sweet lady,
	For Father's work onward must go."
And so the sweet visions departed,
	With flutter and murmurings low.
	SALO[-]M.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	Sisters, our enemies are on our track, and
while we sleep they are plotting for our
overthrow. Let us wake up and be alive
to our duties, lest Satan enter in and sow
tares while we are sleeping.  He is trying
to do so in every way he can possibly hope
to accomplish it, striking us where he thinks
us least prepared to defend ourselves.  A
little while ago it was the cry.  "Give the
women of Utah the ballot, and they will
handle polygamy," and they laughed
among themselves, for they thought the
women of Utah would vote their ticket in
view of ridding themselves of that princi-
ple, but they were never more mistaken;
and when they find that our hands are
strengthened against them they howl
"Take away the franchise, it gives them
too much power."  But they shall not take
the franchise from us easily while we are
able to defend ourselves.  Let us use it
wisely and well, and we are a power that
will resist their effort to suppress.  They
think now to attack us through our own
sex, and the women, poor, silly things, al-
low themselves to be made use of for politi-
cal purposes.  They call us low and degrad-
ed, but we will meet them on their own
ground and return their scorn with inter-
est.  How many of their lives will bear
investigation? Do women not know that
when they provoke a quarrel with their own


sex that they find those who can talk as
well as themselves; and we are better
armed, perhaps, for we have right and
justice on our side. Our motto is, Deseret,
the working bee. Do they not know better
than to attack a hive of bees? They have
not handled as many hives as I have, or
they would be cautious.
	We see the purpose of the raid in their
memorial, it says: "We, the undersigned
women of Utah, pray your honorable body
to enact such legislation as will make effec-
tive the anti-polygamy law of 1862." This
is the secret of the whole movement—to
excite the country against us and induce
Congress to pass the bills of all sorts, planned
by political frauds for the oppression and
annoyance of this people. They care noth-
ing about virtue, or purity, or they would
note the glowing vices that have been gain-
ing among us since we have been open to
the "refining influences" of modern Chris-
tianity. Polygamy, even allowing it to be
wrong (which we do not) presents a far
purer state of society than the practices of
monogamy can show. They wish to de-
stroy our principles of morality and intro-
duce their own, "but we will have none of
it;" we will rise up in the strength of Is-
rael's God and vindicate our rights and de-
fend them.	MARY.
	Provo.


[Column 1]
	GIVE TO SLANDER NO QUARTER.

	With all our boasted educational privi-
leges, with all our societies for the inculca-
tion of morality, with our churches and
Sabbath schools teaching the principle of
the "golden rule," it would yet seem that
the masses of the people have scarcely a
rudimentary conception of the immorality
of slander, or having such conception, that
they smother it beneath the cloak of vile
suspicion.  Fostered by this suspicion, and
unrestrained by a charity that "thinketh
no evil," slander, "foulest whelp of sin,"
touches, with the blighting frost of its in-
sidious breath, the fair name of woman,
the honor of man, and perverts with vilest
malignity [-]he unsuspecting words and acts
of innocent girlhood.
	When the somber shadow of its wither-
ing curse hovers over the name of woman
by man maligned, it is dark enough, but
when woman casts the cloud, what pen can
portray or pencil shade its gloom?  We can
dimly understand the reason why a woman,
herself fallen, may take delight in circulat-
ing stories or hinting dark things concern-
ing the lives of other women, it being prob-
ably a sort of balm to her own conscious-
ness of impurity to make herself believe
that others, even in high places, are like
unto her.  But how women whose purity
of life is unimpeached can allow themselves
to voice suspicion concerning sister women,
is more difficult to understand.  "Taking
that which enriches not them and leaves
the other poor indeed," they pass along the
highways of life, ignoring those who strug-
gle in its byways, except to give them un-
kind thrusts, all the while as serenely con-
scious of superiority as if their uncalled—for
and most merciless theft were not a greater
crime in the face of high heaven than that
for which many a convict toils for years,
dragging a ball and chain.  The narrow
lives, narrow aims, narrow aspirations of
many women is doubtless the cause of much
gossip, the primary element of scandal,
which "steams up in an infusion of tea and
floats around in the air of common fame,"
and if there were absolutely no other rea-
son for giving the minds of women intelli-

[Column 2]
gent and responsible employment, this one 
would be more than sufficient.  Every wo-
man who has had her mind occupied with
the graver responsibilities of business, or
who is bending all her energies toward the
accomplishment of some cherished aim,
knows how infinitesimal and unworthy of
consideration these mischievous animad ver-
sions upon the conduct of others seems to 
her, and while there will always, doubtless,
be small minds incapable of grasping
greater things than the "poor scandal of
the neighborhood," yet we are sure that
many women are led into this channel of
thought and speech which it induces, from
an activity of mind that is misdirected,
rather than naturally mischievous.  Rise
above this thing, women, sisters, for it is 
one of the clogs that holds our sex in bond-
age, one of the serious charges against wo-
men which can neither be palliated nor de-
nied by those who would fain defend her;
a thing too obvious to be ignored and too
injurious in its effects upon individuals and
society to be passed by in silence.  Put it
resolutely beneath your feet, banish it from
your presence, and by the high hopes en-
tertained for those who call you "mother,"
by the tender recollections of her whom
you once addressed by that holy name, and
for the honor of that womanhood that can-
not be tarnished without casting a stigma
upon them and you, resolve never to voice
a suspicion, however vaguely, that will tar-
nish a woman's name.  Give to slander no
quarter.
"Dare we condemn the ills that others do?
	Dare we condemn?
Their strength is small, their trials are not few,
The tide of wrong is difficult to stem,
And if to us more clearly than to them
Is given the knowledge of the good and true;
More do they need our help and pity too;
	Dare we condemn?
	—"New North West."


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	A SENSE of justice finally begins to pre-
vail in a number of Eastern States. For
years past female teachers have been em-
ployed in the schools of the country, but,
notwithstanding the fact that the work
performed by them has been universally
conceded to be equal to that done by their
male co-laborers, the salaries paid them
have been far below those received by
males. This unjust and ungenerous state
of affairs is now being revolutionized in
many States, and teachers performing a
certain class of school labor receive like
compensation, regardless of sex, the only
qualifications required, being that the work
shall be done as well by the one as by the
other. This system has been adopted in a
number of States, and though the old and
semi-barbarous practice of paying a woman
less because she is a woman still prevails
in other States, it is safe to say that the
spirit of liberality and justice will find its
way throughout the entire country. There
is no question as to the injustice of the
former method, and all liberal minded and
intelligent persons will welcome this inno-
ovation, whatever may be the opinion enter-
tained relative to the woman suffrage move-
ment.


I venerate old age; and I love not the
man who can look without emotion upon
the sunset of life, when the dusk of even-
ing begins to gather over the watery eye,
and the shadows of twilight grow broader
and deeper upon the understanding. —Long-
fellow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: each [-]quare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A literal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, 1879.


[Column 1]	
	THE MANNERS OF THE AGE.

	There is a great deal of complaint made in
regard to the "decay of fine manners." In
this as most other subjects there is a wide di-
versity of opinion, yet it is generally conceded
that this age is one of rude manners and un-
courteousness, albeit education and advance-
ment are its boast. One would dislike to ad-
mit that following as a consequence the attain-
ment of knowledge, men and women should
disregard those gentle manners that are so ad-
mirable in the possessor. Fine manners are a
charm in and of themselves, that attract and
endear those who possess them to their friends,
and always recommend themselves pleasingly.
It is not possible to define exactly the outline
or extent of these peculiar facinations. It is
something understood and realized when seen,
but of which it is scarcely possible to convey
an idea in words. Fine manners, associated
with brilliant wit and strong intellectual char-
acteristics such as many are endowed with, are
indeed the polish which enhances the value of
even the most sterling qualities, because it
gives them an appropriate setting. And fine
manners are often the passport of an empty
head into the society of intelligent and edu-
cated people, because they give an agreeable
impression to those around them, never giving
trouble,  always doing the proper thing at
the right time, and in the most graceful man-
ner. No rough surfaces that catch at every-
thing and keep one always on the "qui vive,"
nor sharp angles that cut keen as knives, where
all should be smooth and easy.
	It is to be deplored that more attention is not
given to deportment, to breeding, and to that
fine, inexpressible instinct of the manners and
bearing of individuals towards each other at
home, or abroad, in company, in travelling, or
where every people meet. We often hear the re-
mark, "The manners do not make the man (or
woman)," but depend upon it if the manners
do not make them it will have much to do with
their success in life and the place they win in
the affections.
	Ill manners and rudeness are endured some-
times because the affections are strong, the
universal law of love for humanity is powerful,
and there is too much honor left yet to discard
those who are dear by some tie of relationship,
or friendship, because their outward manner
is forbidding or uncouth; but these persons, no
matter who they are, or in what station of life
they are found, exert an influence, however
trifling it may be, and it is not elevating.
	It may not be well to set too high an estimate
upon fine manners and gentle breeding, but it
is a thousand pities that these little excellences
of deportment are not more largely cultivated
and more highly recommended. 
	To be constantly exercising politeness towards

[Column 2]
others is more pleasing than irksome, and it
soon becomes second nature to be affable, if
one is persistent in its practice. It is an old
saying that when things come to the worst
there must be a change, and really the man-
ners of young people in this age are certainly
not of the highest order. Yet books of eti-
quette, standard works on this very mythical
subject, abound now, and "How to Talk," 
"How to Write," "How to Travel," wiht nec-
cessary explanations of the art of pracitising
each of these powers, have been published and
scattered aborad, yet instead of instilling the
innate delicacy of manner into the soul, they
add precept to precept for social practice, and
leave the world barren of the genuine article,
which can never be learned wholly from books,
nor cultivated in sterile [-]oil, but must be en-
grafted into the very root of one's nature, or
the essence of it can never imbue the surround-
ing plants with the living perfume thrown off
at will. 
	Reform in manners is loudly called for; but
where shall it begin and who shall inaugurate
it? Ten to one if one individual steps forward
and shows himself unwilling to comply with
the rough rowdyisms of his associates it would
be said of him, "he's trying to be above us;
he's proud and stuck up;" and in this way,
perhaps, many fall lower, retrograde in the
scale of manners, and drag down others with
them, when with a little more moral courage
they might have stood firm, and thus lifted
themselves and others of their class to a higher
plane of breeding and deportment.
	No man or woman who lifts themselves from
the common level, or mark, without lifting
others too, if it is even those unborn. If the
superiority is never perceptible in those with
whom they come in contact in the daily battle
of life, and even this will be to some extent,
such ones are sure to transmit ot the children
a portion of this subtle element of good breed-
ing, that will develop itself under anything
like propitious circumstances.
	Thus oftentimes are the children of gentle
women detected, that have been abandoned
because they are to the manor (manner) born.
To produce good manners in children parents
must have a large degree in themselves. It is
useless for the father and mother who never
interchange gentle courtesies to expect the
children will, merely because they are so in-
structed, wanting the force of example.
	But notwithstanding forms and ceremonies
are much abhorred in this age, and tradition-
ary usages and customs are greatly ignored,
yet it would be well, and we believe highly
proper, to commence and observe certain fixed
rules, adapting them of course to the various
conditions and exigencies of the individual,
the time and the place, and insist upon a strict
observance of the code or codes of manners.
It may be a great labor, but it is time to begin
to "mend our ways" in this particular. It will
bring into play a large amount of tact and de-
velop some latent politeness, perhaps, now
lying dormant for want of energy to force its
growth. Mothers, teachers, editors, writers
can all materially aid in improving the man-
ners of the age. Fathers are not exempt either,
but as a mother's influence on the mind and the
character of a child is almost always greater
than that of the father, so it would be in the
case of manners and good breeding. Women
tolerate and sanction too many rudenesses on
the part of men that a few years ago would
have been considered unbearable. And not
knowing where to lay the blame, they cry out
against modern society. Before these impro-
prieties and liberties can be remedied some-
body must strongly and emphatically declare

[Column 3]
themselves against them, and set their faces
like iron to do battle for a higher state of soci-
ety and its usages. 
	Very many good things have recently been
published which relate so closely to the sim-
plest conditions of life, and might so easily be
introduced into every department of social in-
tercourse, making a decided improvement in
the tone of society among the people, that we
have been seriously meditating making a series
of extracts from a standard work on this sub-
ject for the benefit of our readers, more e[--]e-
cially the young  people who have banded themselves
together to mutually benefit and aid each
other in every variety of improvement. The
remark is frequently made, when one culti-
vates a taste for politeness, "O she's too nice,'
or "he's too nice," meaning that they pay too
much attention to form of speech, or polish of
manner, but in reality nothing is too nice
which is genuine and bears relations to all
its relative conditions. So much for the man-
ners of the age and suggestions for improve-
ment.	<C. B. [-]oells>


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received reports in full of mass
meetings held in St. George, Third Ward Provo
and Heber City, but not having space for them
they will have to lay over until next issue.
	MRS. EMMELINE B. Wells and Mrs. Zina
Young Williams left this city on the morning
of the 3d inst. for Washington, as delegates to
the Eleventh Annual Convention of the Na-
tional Woman's Suffrage Association, held in
the capitol, on the 9th and 10th of the present
month. Aside from the importance of attend-
ing the Convention itself, their visit was most
auspiciously timed, for not only were they pre-
pared to meet the efforts of the local anti-
polygamic crusade and represent the women
of Utah in a right way, but to answer inter-
esting queries regarding the probable feeling
existing among the Latter-day Saints as a se-
quence to the recent decision made by the Su-
preme Court of the United States, declaring
the validity of the anti-polygamic law of 1862.
	THE MONTHLY Sunday School Union was
held in the Theatre on Sunday evening, the
5th inst., the building being filled to its ut-
most capacity, and many going away unable
to procure seats.
	After singing, and a prayer by Elder C. W.
Penrose, the minutes of the last union were
read and approved, after which Superintend-
ent George Goddard made some remarks. The
Union Glee Club then sang, after which the
city and county wards were called and all of
the former and most of the latter were found
to be represented.
	Counselor Joseph E. Taylor next addressed
the assembly, and was followed by Pres. A. M.
Cannon. Elder C. W. Penrose also spoke to
the congregation, and then Supt. Goddard of-
fered a few remarks. A number of good reso-
lutions were adopted during the progress of
the meeting, and a good time was spent by all
present.
	THE REGULAR Quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion was held in the Thea-
tre on the 4th and 5th inst. The house was
well warmed for the occasion, and the build-
ing, especially, on Sunday, was filled to over-
flowing. The General authorities of the
Church, including the representatives of both
the Melchisedec and Aaronic Priesthoods, were
seated in order upon the stage, with the Tab-


ernacle choir in the rear. A good spirit pre-
vailed, and much valuable instruction was
given.
	The forenoon of Saturday was occupied by
the necessary transaction of business, after
which the time was occupied in an interesting
manner by Superintendent George Goddard,
Pres. Angus M. Cannon and Pres. Joseph
Young, Sen. At 2 p. m. the Conference re-
sumed, and after more business Elder Brig-
ham Young, Bishops Edwin D. Woolley, Rob-
ert T. Burton, Bishop Edward Hunter and
President David O. Calder addressed the con-
gregation, severally, in the order named.
	Sunday morning Elder Aurelius Miner made
some interesting remarks, after which the 
General authorities of the Church and the
local authorities of the Stake were read and
sustained by a vote of the congregation. Pres.
A. M. Cannon occupied the remaining time,
and the meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
	The afternoon was occupied by President
John Taylor, who preached a powerful dis
course on the goodness of God to His children,
and the duties expected of them in return.
His remarks were reported verbatim.
	After a few items of excellent instruction by
Pres. A. M. Cannon the Conference adjourned
sine die;
	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt has moved her office
from above Dr. Richards' drug store to the Old
Constitution building next door to the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT Office.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City,
Jan. 2d, Electa Mott Barlow, one of the wives
of J. M. Barlow, Dentist, aged 51 years. She
retired at her usual hour, and apparently in
usual health, about 4 oclock a. m. her hus-
band was aroused by a slight movement and
an apparent effort to speak; in two short min-
utes all signs of existing mortal life had fled.
Her two daughters and one of her three sons
reached her bedside before life became quite
extinct, and the son earnestly inflated her
lungs with his own breath; she seemed to
breathe once again and all was over.
	How suddenly, how unexpectedly, and yet
how naturally has this our sister fallen asleep.
She has been many years a diligent member of
the Relief Society Committee, and the kindly
aid she has rendered the sick is a monument to
her memory—the spire which will penetrate
the regions of her paradisic home, and be read
by friends in her circle of society there.
	We condole with the family and friends in
the temporary separation, and rejoice with
them in the Gospel assurances of a happy and
eternal reunion where all tears will be wiped
away, and no moth or rust will corrupt.
	AN AGED SISTER GONE.—News has reached
us of the death of Sister Catherine Wilson,
more commonly known as "Grandmother
Wilson," who departed this life on the 28 h
ult., at the ripe old age of 96 years.
	Sister Wilson was born April 15, 1782, at
Merionethshire, North Wales; received the
Gospel in the fall of 1810, in Flintshire, and
emigrated to Nauvoo in 1842. She crossed the
plains to Utah with Bishop N. K. Whitney's
family, and drove a light wagon all the way.
From that time she has resided in Utah, and
after a long and useful life has quietly gone to
rest, to await the final resurrection, when she
will come forth with the just and the faithful,
to receive the reward of all her well doing.
	The remains were placed in the Ogden City
cemetery, Dec. 30, 1878.


DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co., Jan. 1st,
1879, Mrs. Anna White Lamb, wife of Suel
E. Lamb.
	Deceased was born Sept, 1st, 1819, at Zurich,
Switzerland, and came to Utah in 1856, endur-
ing all the hardships incident to that fearful
journey across the plains with handcarts, and
the trials of a lone woman in a strange land,
but through all trusting with unswerving
faith in Him she had covenanted to serve.
With the same faith she passed behind the
vail, with only the regret at parting with her
only child, who, from the effects of brain fever
in infancy, is nearly deaf and dumb, making
it difficult to understand any but the mother.
We do not mourn the departed, knowing her
life was such as to insure her future glory. As
one of the Relief Society she has ever been an
active member, and of all her friends none
know of an unkind word or deed; she was
truly an exception. For that reason we can
not feel to mourn her departure to that haven
of rest, but extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved daughter, praying that He will sustain
her, who has been her mother's comfort and
strength.		M. E. G.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
EXPRESSION.

		"A single look more marks the internal woe
		Than all the windings of the lengethend O!"
	It has been said we are becoming an emo-
tional race. A writer in a prominent maga-
zine, in an article published some time
since, advocated this idea and carried his
theory to such an extent as to declare that
the language would ultimately become ob-
solete, and the interchange of ideas be car-
ried on by means of gesticulations and emo-
tional signs. That such an event is among
the possibilites sound arguments may be
adduced to maintain, and reflection would
lead to the conclusion that, by a system of
education, an emotional language might be
substituted for speech without seriously af-
fecting the necessary interchange of opin-
ions. The assertion of the ancient orator,
that he could express an idea by actions in
as many different ways as a fluent writer
could express it in words, and the actual
verification of the assertion, stands strongly
in support of this theory, but that that
wonderful and delicate organ, the tongue,
given to man by the Creator, and designed
for such remarkable uses, capable of pro-
ducing such unmeasured joy, and causing
such profound sorrow, should fall into gen-
eral disuse by the substitution of emotional
language is not only improbable but verges
on the ridiculous. However, emotional
language, or, as it might be better denomi-
nated, expression, should be cultivated.
	Expression is as old as mankind, and, as
many other things, serves to show the de-
gree of civilization attained not only by
individuals but by nations. It is essentially
the child of the soul and is nourished by
the heart; and admitting this it is at once
established as the sister of sincerity. Rea-
son for a moment. What pleasure is de-
rived from listening to a song in which
there is no expression? or what feelings
are awakened at hearing a beautiful and
expressive ballad sung by one in whose
soul the musical ideas and cadences find no
response? What is it that creates poetry
but the outburst of the fire of the soul into
expressions that rekindle similar fires in
the breasts of others? and how long does
the soul of poetry exist when it is read by
one to whom it gives no sense of joy or sor-
row? Imagine an actor reciting a passage

[Column 2]

from Shakespeare in a strain that is com-
mon to schoolboys-while reciting their les-
sons; or conjecture, if you can, what would
be your feelings to be met by those you
love, after years of absence, with a coolness
of manner that almost freezes you and an
expression of countenance that is as placid
and inanimate as a mirror.
	A few illustrations like these serve to
show the beauty of expression, but it must
always be borne in mind that true expres-
sion is found only in true souls. There is
wisdom in the saying, "Assume a virtue if
thou hast it not," but there is something
angelic in possessing the virtue itself. You
cannot cultivate expression by assuming an
exterior smile when the heart is as cold and
chilling as winter—for the frost is transpa-
rent; you cannot be wholesouled by clasp-
ing the hand firmly, or embracing fondly,
when the heart lacks fondness and firmness
as the diamond lacks warmth. The smile
comes willingly, the sunshine must come in
the heart. Then the smile reflects the sun-
shine, and the warmth brings gladness to
others as the warmth of the sun brings
gladness to earth. No one need then ask
if you have compassion, for the lip quivers;
if you have pity, for the tear trembles in
the eye; if you love, for the whole being
shows it; or if you feel anger, for it is too
plain. In this latter respect, however, it is
safe to say that the virtue is unassumed.
	Hence, it can be seen that the cultivation
of expression is but the cultivation of good-
<ttmpassian,ibe:theiip tjulvers;="" if="" youihavo="" pity;="" for="" the="" tearfremblesdn="" uio="" eye;,="" ify.ou="" -jbvp,="" 'wholemeiog="" shows,="" it="" .or.="" ifhyoiifeel="" anger,:="" ukpt'db="" plain..-="" ip="" this="" latter="" rospect,howeverplbfb="" safe="" to.eayvjhat="" thevlrtiie'la="" uriassumdino="" hence="" jit.can="" he="" seen="" thatihdfcaltlvat'ioh="" of="" iexpression(s="" batitho.carunation="" df="" good-="" ness.="" a="" itr="" eraxpr'essioa="" ikjilways)="" bea="" u="" tiful,="" i="" and="" webut="" attain="" m="" dogr&<jf©ftper-="" feetion="" in="" we.="" will="" have="" rgainedeniuch="" theoother,..but="" remember,="" to-="" cultivate="" expressioniyou="" musthultivafothb="" soqiu="" is="" hoot="" worth="" an-effort?="" ih.-i--it="" o="" :lx="" c.="" v="" itvmichtirlesi.v="" ,="" '="" if.i="" v.="" .hi.="" -st="" or.="" too<="" div="">ness. True expression is always beautiful,
and if we can but attain a degree of per-
fection in this we will have gained much
in the other. But remember, to cultivate
expression you must cultivate the soul. Is
it not worth an effort?
	CHIMES.


QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.
OF THE RELIEF SOCIETIES OF ST. GEORGE.

	President Minerva W. Snow, Presiding.
After singing, and prayer by M. W. Snow,
Secretaries were appointed and voted in.
Eliza Smith Calkins as Secretary for the
Stake, and Elizabeth P. Bentley as Corres-
ponding Secretary.  Reports from the va-
rious Societies were then read, with a few
exceptions.  From a misunderstanding the 
reports were not as clean as they should
have been, and in consequence a correct re-
port cannot be given; some going back ten
years.  The presidents of St. George socie-
ties gave a verbal report of their wards.
	Pres. M. W. Snow then addressed the
assembly, and gave some good instruc-
tions.  Many excellent remarks were made
by the different sisters, concerning the du-
ties of mothers, sickness, &c.
	We had a good meeting; the Spirit of
the Lord was with us, and we felt assured
that our next Conference would be better,
this being our first attempt.  Singing,
Prayer by E. S. Calkins.
MINERVA SNOW, President,
E. P. BENTLEY, Cor. Secretary.
St. George, Jan. 5, 1879.


Why is the editorial chair like a back
tooth? Because it is hard to fill.
	THE growing good of the world is partly
dependent on unhistoric facts; and that
things are not so ill with you and me as
might have been is half owing to the num-
ber who lived faithfully a hidden life, and
rest in unvisited tombs.—George Eliot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE UTAH QUESTION ONCE MORE.

	The Anti-Utah crusade has commenced
this year earlier than usual. In his annual
report to the Secretary of the Interior, the
Governor, in a spasm of virtuous indigna-
tion, proposed the disfranchisement of Utah
women. Now, in the name of all justice
and right we ask why the women of Utah
should be disfranchised and not the men of
Utah? If it is on account of polygamy, the
women were not its institutors; if the laws
of Utah are illegal, the women did not
make them. They have been very quiet
politicians, never holding office, never until
this fall, even members of political clubs,
but simply going peaceably to the polls,
casting their votes and going away again. 
It is very easy to see why the Governor
suggests that the women oi Utah should be
disfranchised, and why similar propositions
have at different times been made in regard
to Wyoming. It is because the women of
the States do not hold the ballot that this
great and crying injustice is proposed in
regard to the women of the territories.
	Disfranchisement is deemed a punish-
ment too severe for the worst male crimi-
nals; that felons may not lose the rigot of
sufferage they are largely pardoned. In
the State of New York during one year, 360
criminals were pardoned by the Governor,
one for nearly every day in the year. Every
prison in the state saw criminals set free
from it except the woman's prison at Sing
Sing. Not a single one of the 360 criminals
pardoned, was a woman. Why? Because
women are a disfranchised class. There
were no votes for the Governor lying back
of their freedom. Women might suffer
the full penalty of the law, and mercy
would not interfere. As it was with Gover-
nor Hoffman, so it is with every other
Governor in every other State. Penalties
are visited to the full on the disfranchised
class; justice tempered with mercy is meted
out to the ballot-holding class.
	As it is with Governors, so it is with
Presidents. Hayes has not been in power
very long, but in the fifteen months from
the time of his taking the presidential chair
in March 1877 down to the adjournment of
Congress in June last, he had pardoned 285
male criminals, "restored them to citizen-
ship," as the law terms it; citizenship and
the ballot being recognized as synonmous—
in men. These felons, these law-breakers,
were all pardoned because they belonged to
the class that holds political power in its
hands.
	What a cry would be raised if the Gover-
nor of Utah had proposed to take male suf-
ferage away from Utah, or had even propos-
ed to disfranchise male polygamists. Be-
fore this time, not only every political pa-
per in the country, but every religious pa-
per as well, would have been in strong pro-
test against such an abominable proposi-
tion, but as it is "only women" the country
takes it coolly. Did the women of but a
single State hold political power, we should
hear no more in regard to disfranchising
the women of the territories. Such is the
power of the ballot it holds its aegis even
over the worst male criminals. It is the
great protector.
	The "Gentile" women of Utah have also
addressed Mrs. President Hayes and the
women of the United States—have prepared
a memorial to Congress, and a circular let-
ter to the clergy, against the mormon cus-
tom of plural marriage. But, after all,
what a sham morality is this cry against
plurality of wives. In Utah, until the ad-
vent of the "Gentile" population, there

[Column 2]

were no liquor saloons, no gambling hells,
no houses of prostitution, no paupers and
few criminals. They were not compelled
to lock their doors from theives, and at any
hour of the night a woman was safe to
traverse any part of the city unattended.
But now, through the husbands, fathers,
brothers and friends of the male sex of
these "Gentile" women, institutions have
been established which were previously
unknown in Utah; saloons, gambling dens,
houses of ill-fame." These the "Gentile"
ladies can endure, because they were ac-
customed to such vices in the States, but
plural marriage they feel is more than
their delicate natures can bear. Out upon
such sham hypocrisy and nonsense. For
our part, we think plural marriages stand
white beside the common abominations of
cities; cities did I say? The country every-
where is rotten with lust, and woman is
everywhere the victim of man's vices and
crimes.
	Read the following extracts from a recent
sermon by Rev. T. Dewitt Talmage upon
Vice in the Metropolis, and find these mor-
al hells, tenfold worse than Mormon mar-
riages. And how are these hells supported?
Not by youth, not by young men, not by
recognized and open sinners, but by mar-
ried Christian men of wealth and position,
"judges of courts," "distinguished law-
yers," " officers in churches," "political
orators," "fathers and husbands."
THE LEPERS OF SOCIETY.
	"I have discovered in my midnight ex-
ploration that the haunts of iniquity are
supported by what are called the better
classes. The men who in our cities sup-
port luxuriant vice come down from the
fashionable avenues of New York and cross
over from some of the finest mansions of
Brooklyn, or are prominent citizens from
Chicago, Cincinnati, Pittsburg, Philadel-
phia and Boston. I could call the names of
many of the frequenters of these haunts of
sin, and may call them before I get through
these sermons, though the fabric of New
York and Brooklyn society should tumble
into wreck—judges of courts, distinguished
lawyers, officers in churches, political ora-
tors that talk on the Republican, Democrat-
ic and Greenback platforms about God and
good morals till you might almost take
them for evangelists expecting a thousand
converts in one night. On the night of our
exploration I saw their carriages leaving
these dignitaries at the shambles of death.
Call the roll in the house of dissipation, and
if the inmates will answer you will find
stock-brokers from Wall street, large im-
porters on Broadway, iron merchants,
leather merchants, hardware merchants,
cotton merchants wholesale grocers and
representatives from all the wealthy class-
es.
HOMES AND MARRIAGE VOWS BETRAYED.
	But I have something to tell you more
astonishing than that the houses of iniquity
are supported by wealthy people when I
tell you they are supported by the heads of
families—fathers and husbands, with the
awful perjury upon them of broken marri-
age vows; and while many of them keep
their families on niggardly portions, with
hardly enough to sustain life, have their
thousands for the diamonds and wardrobe
and equipage of iniquity. In the name of
high heaven I cry out against this popular
iniquity. Such men must be cast out from
social life and from business relations. If
they will not reform, overboard with them
from all decent circles. I lift one-half the
burden of malediction from the unpitied
head of woman and hurl it upon the blasted

[Column 3]

pate of offending man. What society
wants is a new division of its anathema. By
what law of justice does the burning ex-
coriation on society pursue offending wo-
man down off the precipice, while offending
man goes kid-gloved into respectable cir-
cles, invited up if he has money and means,
forwarded into political recognition, and
all the doors of high life opening to the rap
of his gold headed cane?" 
	Here is polygamy at our very doors.
	Because Mr. Talmage dare lay bare these
sins in the heart of the Metropolis of all
North America, he has become the target
of the press, the most abused man in all
America. He knows it, and says the rea-
son is, "these church lepers don't want
their scabs touched."
	For our own part we honor Mr. Talmage;
he is nobly battling for women, and point-
ing out as no other man dare point out, the
vices and crimes of his own sex—of his
Christian brethren. Why are not these
things but an end to in New York? Be-
cause nobody wants them to be. The po-
lice have such full control that in some of
these dens no man enters without their per-
mission. They are not destroyed because
those in power do not want them destroy-
ed. They are not destroyed because dis-
franchised woman is held as the mere
plaything of ballot-holding men. That is
why. Ten vile men are required to support
one 'abandoned' woman. In Utah we have
religious polygamy; in New York we have
irreligious polygamy as well as polyandry.
In Utah, the polygamous wife still bears
the name of wife. In New York the wo-
man of many husbands is hated and scorned
by those very men who 'support' her.
Faugh! what a stench in the nostrils has
the word "support" become.
	The polygamous wife in Utah stores
grain, makes silk, belongs to relief socie-
ties, is foremost in every good work. Let
Utah alone and begin with the male sin-
ners of the Empire State. 
"THE WOMEN OF UTAH PROJECT." 
	The above is the heading of an article in
the Territorial Enquirer, of Provo City,
Utah, in which an account is given of a
mass meeting of Mormon women at the
Temple to protest against the intervention
of "Gentile" women in their religious
affairs.
	Some 2,000 women were present. The
Enquirer says the women of Utah are un-
der the impression they are their own free
agents and are perfectly competent "to
paddle their own canoe."
	addresses were made claiming the right
of protection in the free exercise of their
religion, and declaring Congress had as
much right to legislate against baptism by
immersion as against plurality of wives.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, editor of the
Woman's Exponent, expressed her aston-
ishment that women should rise against
women, and although she cherished no ill-
feeling towards them, they could rest
assured that it would be "diamond cut dia-
mond." She closed by saying she thanked
God there were some who were not afraid
to publish a word favorable to the "poor,
down-trodden women of Utah."
	Mrs. Wells is a member of the Advisory
Committee of the National Woman's Suf-
frage Association.
	Several resolutions were passed, but we
have only room for the following:
	Resolved, That we protest against the
enactment of any laws which deprive
American citizens, whether male or female,
of any constitutional rights; and that we
make a united effort to secure the unani-


mous voice of the women of our faith to
plead the passage of the sixteenth amend-
ment during the coming session of con-
gress.
	Resolved, That we do truly appreciate the
efforts and labors of the noble ladies of the
National Woman’s Sufferage Association,
who, though opposed in their feelings to
plural marriage and without sympathy for
our religious views bravely defended the
cause of woman's rights in Utah in the halls
of congress, and we take this public oppor-
tunity of tenderitg them an expression of
our sincere and heartfelt thanks.
	We fear these things are the commence-
ment of serious trouble, both religious and
political, for our country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWENTY IMPOLITE THINGS.

1. Loud and boisterous laughing.
2.  Reading when others are talking.
3.  Talking when others are reading.
4.  Cutting finger nails in company.
5.  Joking others in company.
6. Gazing rudely at strangers.
7.  Leaving a stranger without a seat.
9.  Reading aloud in company without
being asked. 
10. Spitting about the house, smoking
or chewing.
11.  Leaving church before worship is
closed.
12. Whispering or laughing in the
house of God.
13.  A want of respect and reverence for
seniors.
14. Correcting older persons than your-
self, especially, your parents.
15.  Receiving a present without an ex-
pression of gratitude.
16. Not listening to what one is saying
in company.
17.  Commencing to eat as soon as you
get to the table.
18.  Answering questions that have been
put to others.
19.  Commencing talking before others
have finished speaking.
20.  Laughing at the mistakes of others.


CHARITY.

	Charity is every where esteemed to be
one of the most essential elements to the
formation of character, in the life of a
christian it is indispensable. The New
Testament in summing up all the gifts and
qualifications of a saint speaks in the strong-
est terms upon this good gift.
	By all people every where, charity is con-
sidered one of the most precious qualities
of the human soul. Without it, we are
told in the Bible, all other gifts are as
nought. When we speak of the bestowings
of charity, it is generally understood giving
to the poor, or unfortunate; and in this,
there are many degrees and many motives,
and great wisdom is needed to discern be-
tween true and false charity, or honest and
selfish motives.
	Charity in its true sense is not giving
without consideration to all that ask, while
we have the means to dispose of without
denying ourselves. To be truly charitable
covers a large surface and includes many
things. Life is rendered more pleasant,
and the society of our friends more harmo-
nious by the exercise of this virtue. If we
are ready to judge and condemn our friends
and acquaintances for every little frivolous
thing, we should be always having some-
thing disagreeable to meet. Life would be


robbed of much of its sweetness, if we did
not exercise charity towards each others
shortcomings. "There are none perfect,"
said the Savior, "no not once." For this rea-
son, if for no other, we should cultivate
this gift and seek to beautify our lives with
it. It is a trial of character to which all
young people should give special attention,
for it will render them more agreeable to
others, more happy in themselves and more
pleasing to God. We cannot be to careful
in judging the faults or weaknesses of
others, and here charity is needed to make
us lenient, long suffering and kind. Charity
for others will give us time to deliberate
before we pass judgement, but if we are
hasty in condemning what seems to us to
be wrong, we may have reason to repent. 
	For the exercise of charity towards those,
who are from any cause dependent, one is
sure to learn lessons of humility; and often
in contemplating the sorrows or unhappy
lot to those we minister, we are taught
patience and meekness; and we are thus
inspired with gratitude for the many bless-
ings we are in possession of.
	Faith, hope and charity are classed to-
gether as all important to salvation but,
"the greatest of these is charity," we
should not feel that charity only consists
in giving to the needy or that it is only in
forgiving those who offend us, but charity
enters into our early lives and gives a tone
to our natures that will help us to endure
many of the evils we have to meet with
here, and to overcome in ourselves much
that is wrong.
	Charity is a part of the religion of our
blessed Savior, and in no other life has it
ever been so strikingly exemplified; even
upon the cross He had charity for His
enemies and prayed "Father forgive them,
for they know not what they do."


For the EXPONENT.
	ORNAMENTAL GARDENING.

	At one of the monthly Sunday School
Union meetings, your correspondent was
interested in a proposition made by Coun-
sler Evens, viz. that the Sunday School
Union devise some plan to stimulate in
teachers and scholars the cultivation of
flowers, the speaker dwelt on the various use
and pleasures that a properly systematised
plan of floral culture would afford and
seemed to leave the subject open for fur-
ther suggestions, the subject has so many
important branches that it should not be
lost sight of. The cultivation of flowers by
the young leads to industrial habits to ac-
quaintance with the powers and qualities of
Mother Earth, inspires health, devotion,
refinement and affection. Permit me to
suggest that a floral central committee con-
sisting of gentlemen and ladies be elected by
the Union whose duty it shall be to collect
seeds, roots, shrubs &c. for distribution and
exchange and to collect and disseminate
information on the best methods of orna-
mental gardening. Sub committees can be
extensively appointed by whose coopera-
tion a branch of beautifieing and happifie-
ing, labor can be greatly improved and ex-
tended, the write hopes suggestions will
be presented until some practical action is
taken on the subject.
	A LOVER OF FLOWERS.


WOMEN'S MASS MEETING

FAIRVIEW, UTAH.

Meeting held on the 19th December, 1878.
he assembly called to order and object


stated by Mrs. M. A. Pritchett, who was
then chosen chairman.  Singing.  Prayer
by Mrs. T. Avery.  Singing.  Mrs. T.
Avery then chosen Secretary, and L. A.
Wilson Assistant Secretary.  The follow-
ing committee chosen to draft resolutions:
Lois A. Wilson, T. Avery, E. Cox, R. San-
derson, L. Terry, Lois Jordan, M. Cheney,
M. Larsen.  Committee withdrew.  Address
of Anti-polygamic mass meeting to Mrs.
Hayes, was read by R. Tucker.
Extempore addresses were then delivered
by Mrs. A. M. Peterson, T. Avery, Mary
Larsen, Margaret Cheney, Elvira Cox, Le-
vee Terry, Sarah J. Sanderson, Lena Brady,
Lois Jordan, Maria Larsen, Lois A. Wilson
and Martha Cheney.  Each of these ladies
bore a strong testimony in regard to the
truth of plural marriage.
Committee returned the following report:
Resolved, That we adopt the preamble
and resolutions of the mass meeting of the
ladies of the Latter-day Saints in Salt Lake
City, and coincide with their sentiments.
Mrs. Mary A. Pritchett and Mrs. Chris-
tiansen then expressed their opinions upon
the subject under discussion. Singing
Benediction by Maria Larsen.
L. A. WILSON, Reporter.
ALMA, UINTA CO., WYOMING.
On the 22d December last a meeting of
the sisters of Alma was called for the pur-
pose of protesting against the Anti polyga-
my petition now in circulation.  Com-
menced at 6:30 p. m., and was attended by
nearly all the sisters in the ward.  Prayer
was offered by Sister Brown.  Mrs. Cath-
erine Beveridge, President of the Relief
Society, was chosen President, Miss Lizzie
Bruce, Secretary.
Mrs. Beveridge then stated that the ob-
ject of the meeting was to give the sisters
a chance to state their feelings on the Anti-
polygamy Bill which had been gotten up by
some of the Gentiles of Utah.  Advised
the sisters, if any there were, who did not
believe in plural maraiage not to speak
against it, for the angels of God were tak-
ing notes of our transactions this night.
She not only believed in plural marriage,
but was willing to practice the same; would
rather be the plural wife of a good man
and be acknowledged as one of his wives,
than to be the wife of an unrighteous man
on any condition.  She solemnly protested
against the Anti-polygamy bill, as being an
infringement on the rights of American
citizens and on the laws of God.
Preamble and resolutions which were
read and adopted by the woman's mass
meeting in Salt Lake City were read and
unanimously sustained by the sisters pre-
sent.
Short speeches were then made by the
following sisters, protesting against the
Anti-polygamy bill:  Mrs. Danks, Mrs.
Woodhouse, Mrs. M. A. Kiddy, Mrs.
Johnston, Mrs. M. Fowkes, Mrs. Evans,
Mrs. Russel, Mrs. S. A. Danks, Mrs. Brad-
shaw, Mrs. L. Beveridge, Mrs. Henry, Mrs.
M. J. Ball, Mrs. Thomas.. Prayer by Mrs.
Woodhouse.
LIZZIE BRUCE, Secretary.


FRUIT CAKE.—One pound of butter, one
pound of brown sugar, ten eggs, one pound
of flour scorched, four pounds raisins, three
pounds of currants, one pound of citron, half
pint brandy, half ounce of mace, half ounce
of cloves, half ounce of cinnamon, one cup
of molasses.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE concert given in Academy Hall at
Provo by the students of the B. Y. Acade-
my Friday evening Dec. 20, 1878. was a
grand success. Where all was excellent it
is hard to bestow any special praise. Re-
flecting great credit as it did on the excell-
ent training given in the Academy, each
performance still showed individual talent.
The literary portion under Miss Teenie
Smoot was excellent. The costuming ar-
ranged by Mrs. Z. Y. Williams could not
be excelled in Salt Lake. One felt surpris-
ed and pleased at the smooth manner in
which all the scenes and various songs, &c.
were presented. There was no hitch no
jar, and the opening and the closing prayer
given by one of the students placed the
whole evening's entertainment far above
anything of the kind ever given here. One
feature, was quite noteworthy. The direct-
ion of the whole musical part by Miss Susa
Young proves that there is another place
where woman acquits herself quite as
creditably as man. The affair might be
justly termed the best of the kind ever
given in Provo. 
	WASHINGTON dispatches announce the
arrival there of our delegates to the Nati-
onal Womans Suffrage Convention, and
the fact that Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Z.
Y. Williams have taken seats in that body.
These are the first delegates ever sent from
Utah to a woman's convention, and marks
an new era in the suffrage movement in
our territory. If nothing else is accom-
plished the presence of these ladies in the
capacity of delegates representing the wo-
men here and giving expression to their
sentiments and feelings is certain of pro-
ducing a salutary effect in the course of
time. We now have an opportunity of
representing ourselves, and in all probabil-
ity may make a better impression before
the world than have those who have vol-
untarly undertaken to represent our cause
for us. Among the first acts of the Conven-
tion was the adoption of a resolution ap-
pointing a committee to wait on President
Hayes, and recall to his mind the fact that
there were 20,000,000 women in the United
States whose existence he appeared to have
forgotton in his recent message toCongress;
also that he might find it advisable to di-
rect the attention of those who constitute
that recent innovation—the hospitel for po-
litical incurables, commonly called Congress,
in his future messages.


HYGIENIC NOTE.

	Nerves and Noises.—Newspaper writers are
commenting extensively upon the uproar of cities.
They say that nature has provided the eye with a
contrivance for protecting itself against unpleasant
sights, and one has only to hold his nose in com-
ing in contact with anything disagreeable to the
olfactories. Meanwhile the ears stand open like
open doors that cannot be shut. All sorts of
rackets from the bells of the peddlers to the sharp
clanking of the cars of the elevated railroad, rap
on the ear-drum. It has been suggested that if
Edison, or somebody, could invent some kind of a
contrivance to be worn over the ears that would
take up all these discordant sound-waves and ar-
range them into concord and music, life in our
cities might be made more tolerable.—Health
Monthly.


GENUINE benevolence is not stationary,
but peripatetic; it "goeth about doing
good."—W. Nevins.


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ.
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soup, warranted First Class,
3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, - - 3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) - - - 35 Cents each
Brooms, - - - - - 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO 
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1 25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Residence—Ephriam, Sanpete County.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women. 

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
	Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street. 
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
	Second South Streets.
Special attention given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also disease[-] of the throat and Lungs.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes  Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its bran[-]hes.  Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing 
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furn[-]shing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

WINTER COODS
DAILY ARRIVING
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT 
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
	Salesroom to
	No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
thing pertaining to a first-class, Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.	Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City.  All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable e quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders [-]o
	WM. H. ROWE.
	SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

