Vol. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DEC. 15, 1878.	No. 14


TO SUSA.

IN ANSWER TO "BY THE BROOK."

'Tis strange that Nature, with gentle seeming,
Should whisper words of noble meaning 
	To mortal minds;
That lightning's flash and thunder's mutter,
Brooks, flowers and breezes should sometimes utter
	Truths most sublime.

I, too, have found a friend, my sister,
A rippling brook, whose quiet whisper
	Oft soothes my soul,
As by its side I sometimes wander,
O'er "knotty points" to think and ponder,
	Past my control.

And thus, one day, as erst perusing
They tender plaint, I fell to musing
	By my brook side.
"Shall wrongs go unredressed in Zion?
Is there no power we may rely on?
	No hand to guide?

"Can man thus crush a woman's power,
And tear from her, her rightful dower—
	To guard her own,
To bless the life she gave another,
And prove the holy love of Mother
	Her right alone?

I had supposed that Woman's mission
'Neath Gospel sway found full fruition,
	And she might feel
That, be he husband, friend, or brother,
Man can not trample on another
	Without appeal.

As thus I mused, a gentle murmur,
As soft and low as breeze of Summer,
	Fell on mine ear;
The sunbeams through the branches glistened,
As silently, enrapt I listened
	These words to hear.

"Some men may err, and others falter,
But God's designs they cannot altar,
	His words prevail.
Though He may deem it wise to chasten,
O soon His loving hands will hasten
	To lift the vail.

"He leads His servants as He willeth,
And through them His designs fulfilleth,
	Then why repine?
For though ye may not know His meanings
Behind the clouds His smiles are beaming,
And soon thy pathway will be streaming
	With light divine.			QUERY.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

	It was during the time we lived at the 
Brick Store that Joseph received the reve-
lation pertaining to Celestial Marriage; also
concerning the ordinances of the House of
the Lord. He had been strictly charged
by the angel who committed these precious
things into his keeping that he should only
reveal them to such persons as were pure,
full of integrity to the truth, and worthy
to be entrusted with divine messages; that
to spread them abroad would only be like
casting pearls before swine, and that the
most profound secresy must be maintained,
until the Lord saw fit to make it known
p[-]blicly through His servants. Joseph had
the most implicit confidence in my hus-
band's uprightness and integrity of charac-
ter; he knew him capable of keeping a se-
cret, and was not afraid to confide in him,
as he had been a Free Mason for many
years. He therefore confided to him, and a 
few others, the principles set forth in that
revelation, and also gave him the privilege
to read it and to make a copy of it, know-

[Column 2]
ing it would be perfectly safe with him. It
was this veritable copy, which was pre-
served, in the providence of God, that has
since been published to the world; for
Emma (Joseph's wife) afterwards becoming
indignant, burned the original, thinking
she had destroyed the only written docu-
ment upon the subject in existence. My
husband revealed these things to me; we
had always been united, and had the ut-
most faith and confidence in each other.
We pondered upon them continually, and
our prayers were unceasing that the Lord
would grant us some special manifestation
concerning this new and strange doctrine.
The Lord was very merciful to us; He re-
vealed unto us His power and glory. We
were seemingly wrapt in a heavenly vision,
a halo of light encircled us, and we were
convinced in our own minds that God heard
and approved our prayers and intercedings
before Him. Our hearts were comforted,
and our faith made so perfect that we were
willing to give our eldest daughter, then
only seventeen years of age, to Joseph, in
the holy order of plural marriage. She had
been raised in the strictest manner as re-
garded propriety, virtue and chastity; she
was as pure in thought, in feeling and in
impulse as it was possible for a young girl
to be. Yet, laying aside all our traditions
aud former notions in regard to marriage,
we gave her with our mutual consent. She
was the first woman ever given in plural
marriage by or with the consent of both 
parents. Of course these things had to be
kept an inviolate secret; as some were
false to their vows and pledges, persecution
arose, and caused grievous sorrow to those
who had obeyed, in all purity and sincerity,
the requirements of the celestial order of
marriage.
	The Lord commanded his servants; they
themselves did not comprehend what the
ultimate course of action would be, but
were waiting further developments from
heaven. Meantime the ordinances of the
house of the Lord were given, to bless and
strengthen us in our future endeavors to
promulgate the principles of divine light
and intelligence; but coming in contact
with all pre-conceived notions and princi-
ples heretofore taught as the articles of re-
ligious faith, it was not strange that many
could not receive it; others doubted, and
only a few remained firm and immovable.
Among that number were my husband and
myself; yet although my husband believed
and was firm in teaching this Celestial order
of Marriage, he was slow in practice. Jo-
seph repeatedly told him to take a wife, or
wives, but he wished to be so extremely
cautious not to do what would probably have
to be undone, that in Joseph's day he never
took a wife. When he did do so, he did it
to fulfill a duty due to the principles of di-
vine revelation as he understood his duty,
and believing sincerely that every man
should prove his faith by his works; but
he afterwards took several wives, and with 
one or two exceptions, they came into the
same house with me, and my children;
therefore, I believe I am safe in saying that
I am intimately acquainted with the prac-
tical part of polygamy.
		(To be continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation held its Annual Convention in In-
dianapolis, Nov. 13 and 14. We gather a
few important items in reference to the
Convention from our Exchanges. There
were many leading suffragists present. The
Committee on Credentials reported thirteen
States represented. Dr. Mary F. Thomas
of Richmond, Ind., presided. Lucy Stone
read the report of the Executive Commit-
tee. Wm. Loyd Garrison, President of the 
A. W. S. Association, was unable to be
present, but sent a letter “able and elo-
quent,” which was read by Mr. Hinkley of
Rhode Island. Miss Matilda Hindman of
Colorado said if the suffrage workers of the
East would contribute money, speakers and
workers, the next report from the Centen-
nial State would be woman suffrage trium-
phant. The speakers of whom particular
mention was made were J. Ellen Foster of
Iowa, H. B. Blackwell of Boston, Margaret
W. Campbell, Hannah Tracy Cutler, Hon.
George W. Julian and Mary F. Eastman.
	Resolutions were adopted, from which
we extract the following:
	Whereas, Theoretically governments de-
rive their just powers from the consent of 
the governed; and whereas, practically,
women are the greatest sufferers from de-
fective legislation, therefore,
	Resolved, That a government of the peo-
ple, by the people, for the people, must be
a government equally composed of men and
women; and that the co-operation of the 
sexes is alike essential to a happy home, a
refined society, a Christian church and a
Republican State.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Whereas, The United States courts have
affirmed that “the regulation of suffrage
belongs exclusively to the States,” and
that “women are citizens, and as such may
be made voters by appropriate State legis-
lation.” And whereas a sixteenth amend-
ment to the federal constitution, abolishing
political distinction on account of sex, al-
though just and necessary, can be more
easily obtained when several States have
set the example; therefore,
	Resolved, That we urge every existing
State association to renewed effort upon 
the next and each following State Legisla-
ture, and in every State where no such as-
sociation exists we urge individual effort,
and the immediate formation of a State
society


THAT gallant sailor, the British Admiral
Ramsey, says that on the coast of Africa he
once saw a regiment of rifle-women—and
black as they were, he must say he never
saw a finer regiment. All the officers were
women, and there was not one man in the
whole regiment. They were most courage-
ous, and fought bravely; in fact, a friend
told him that when they went into action
they fought like so many tigresses.
	DON'T refuse your wife a little extra spend-
ing money just now if she should ask it;
you will get it all back again in slippers
and dressing gowns next Christmas.—
Washington Post.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THIRD QUARTERLY CONFERENCE

RELIEF SOCIETY JUAB CO. STAKE

Held at Nephi Meeting House, Oct. 9th,
1878.  All members of the Stake Board
present, also Pres. G. Teasdale, Apostle
Orson Pratt, Patriarch J. G. Bigler, Bishop
John Andrews and Bro. George Kendall.
After singing, prayer and reading of
minutes of the former meeting, Pres.
Amelia Goldsbrough said: “It is with a
thankful heart that I stand here.  I am
proud of the opportunity that I have to
represent the society and the sisters of this
place, and am very much pleased with the 
energy of my sisters.  I wish to speak con-
cerning our little granary.  I wish it could
have been finished in time to receive the
grain donated by the sisters.  I think we
should have had much more grain stored;
solicit the brethren to assist us in this mat-
ter.  I am glad the sisters are alive to their
duties in waiting on the sick, clothing the
dead, etc. I feel to repeat what I said last
Conference to the teachers, to go as com-
forters and make the people feel that their
friends are coming to see them.  I am
happy to say Elder Orson Pratt is here and
will speak to us.  I feel to bear my testi-
mony to the truth of the work we are en-
gaged in, and to do whatever I am called
upon to do.  May God bless you all. Amen.”
 Pres. Serena Aagard, from Levan, said:
“I am pleased to say the members of the 
Relief Society of Levan are alive to their
duties in blessing and comforting the poor.
There is a good spirit prevailing in our
meetings. We are getting material  to-
gether to build a house to meet in, the
brethren are doing all in their power to
help us in this matter.  I pray God to help
us to perform our part in the great work
in which we are engaged.  Amen.
Pres. Goldsbrough asked if there was any
one present to represent Mona, but there
was not.  She then said she was pleased
with the sisters of Mona branch; they are
doing all in their power to promote the in-
terest of the Society.
Elder Orson Pratt said: “I have not been
accustomed, only on very few occasions, to 
speak to Relief Societies, but do not wish
to shrink from any duty that devolves upon
me. I feel glad that the Lord, through
His servents, has seen fit to organize more
extensively the Relief Societies, which
were first organized in Nauvoo by the
Prophet Joseph.  The sisters are not called
to preside over Church Conferences and do
the work the brethren are called to do, but
they can labor in their own sphere and ac-
complish all that the Lord designs them to
do. I have no doubt the Prophet Joseph
was inspired of God to organize these so-
cieties.  God in His wisdom considered
that man could not perform all the duties
that were necessary to be performed alone;
the Lord designed that they should work
together for the mutual good of both. I
have no doubt but the Prophet Joseph saw
that an organization of this kind was nec-
essary in order that the abilities of woman
may not lie dormant.  Woman does not 
perform all her duties by attending to her
household affairs: the Lord designed that
they should have opportunities to do all the
good their hearts desire to do.  There is a
greater object than laying up grain (which
is very commendable both in the brethren
and the sisters to do), but this is a small
thing compared to the greater ones.  When
the Lord intrusted to you the children, sent
from the presence of God, first intrusted to
your care that they may be raised in the

fear of God and be brought up as they
should be, remember they need training
in their infancy!  This duty devolves on
the mother; she has all the responiibili-
ties of their early training, the father is
away attending to other duties.  Sisters, as
your children come to years of accounta-
bility you have the responsibility of instill-
ing the principles of eternal life in their
hearts; teach them the object of their be-
ing; teach them that it is necessary, when
they choose a companion to live with to all
eternity (not merely for time, but for all
eternity), that they should be dictated by
the Spirit of God.  God has decreed from
before the foundation of the world that
eternal union in marriage is necessary.
The men that are in our midst, who will
flatter and try to lead you away, my sisters,
or marry you, what can they offer you even
in marriage?  What can you expect outside
of this kingdom?  Sisters, it is your duty
to instruct the young in the principles of
our holy religion; if they are cared for and
properly trained very few will go astray.
The Apostle Paul said the man is not with-
out the woman in the Lord, neither is the 
woman without the man; we must enter
the Celestial world together; we can not
obtain Celestial glory unless we are joined
together by proper authority.  The Lord
intends there shall be an eternal relation-
ship between husband and wife.  We must
begin our work here and not go into the
spirit world ignorant.  If man alone per-
formed all the duties, how could they be
suitable companions for each other?  He
has permitted woman to be a helpmate to
man, and has continued male and female
upon the earth up to this time, and evi-
dently designed that both should perform
their part.  He calls Apostles to preside,
and Seventies and High Priests, &c., but
this does not relieve woman from her du-
ties.  In our spiritual existence before we
came here, we understood what the privi-
leges of these spirits were; there was quite
a difference between the spirits that came;
we understood that the First-born would
come and be the Redeemer.  We looked
upon our Savior as the only person that
could come and redeem the world. Our
<qux t="" spiritewer.e="" reserved="" from="" before="" the="" foun.="" dation="" pf="" this="" world,="" to="" come="" forth="" at.="" time,="" when="" the.fujnes3="" o.f="" his="" gospel="" shpald="" v="" i.="" be="" restored.="" wo="" camp="" in="" a="" state="" of'="" .forget,-;.vj.="" fulnessy="" are="" learning="" lesson;'oyer="" .="" again="" that="" v.o="" have="" learned="" before,="" tp="" ,test..="" our="" integrity.="" x="" will="" venture="" prophecy,="" .time="" that,="" therpjw1iu)ibp="" 1="" no="" such="" thing="" known="" a?="" thftqhildrenp.f="" people="" dishonoring="" law="" of.="" god,'="" but;="" through="" .the="" proper.="" ,="" training="" they="" shall="" ;re="" ceive,="" grow="" up="" ;in="" purity="" lord.="" may-="" gpd.="" edd;="" ihjs,.blessing,;="" amen.="" -="" )..="" --="" thp="" authorities="" af="" ;the="" jpab="" relief="" socipi;="" ”"ty="" stake="" organization;="" weie="" ..presented'="" by7="" ;="" pres.="" teasd,ale,="" aud="" unammou3ly="" spstaiued-="" singing.="" ..‘.benediction="" by;rro.="" geqrge.’een-="" dal!.="" <].="" -a="" y;4="" marxrltchfpeta,;secjy,n.,j="" ;l="" fjt.="" ?="" la.="" h.="" biglkt.cor.="" .secjy.j;!="" bhl="" 3fi="" iv<="" div="">spirits were reserved from before the foun-
dation of this world, to come forth at this
time, when the fulness of his Gospel should
be restored.  We came in a state of forget-
fulness, we are learning the lesson over
again that we have learned before to test
our integrity.  I will venture a prophecy
<qux t="" spiritewer.e="" reserved="" from="" before="" the="" foun.="" dation="" pf="" this="" world,="" to="" come="" forth="" at.="" time,="" when="" the.fujnes3="" o.f="" his="" gospel="" shpald="" v="" i.="" be="" restored.="" wo="" camp="" in="" a="" state="" of'="" .forget,-;.vj.="" fulnessy="" are="" learning="" lesson;'oyer="" .="" again="" that="" v.o="" have="" learned="" before,="" tp="" ,test..="" our="" integrity.="" x="" will="" venture="" prophecy,="" .time="" that,="" therpjw1iu)ibp="" 1="" no="" such="" thing="" known="" a?="" thftqhildrenp.f="" people="" dishonoring="" law="" of.="" god,'="" but;="" through="" .the="" proper.="" ,="" training="" they="" shall="" ;re="" ceive,="" grow="" up="" ;in="" purity="" lord.="" may-="" gpd.="" edd;="" ihjs,.blessing,;="" amen.="" -="" )..="" --="" thp="" authorities="" af="" ;the="" jpab="" relief="" socipi;="" ”"ty="" stake="" organization;="" weie="" ..presented'="" by7="" ;="" pres.="" teasd,ale,="" aud="" unammou3ly="" spstaiued-="" singing.="" ..‘.benediction="" by;rro.="" geqrge.’een-="" dal!.="" <].="" -a="" y;4="" marxrltchfpeta,;secjy,n.,j="" ;l="" fjt.="" ?="" la.="" h.="" biglkt.cor.="" .secjy.j;!="" bhl="" 3fi="" iv<="" div="">that the time will come that there will be
no such thing known as the children of this 
people dishonoring the law of God, but
through the proper training they shall re-
ceive, they shall grow up in purity before
the Lord.  May God add His blessing.
Amen.
The authorities a[-] the Juab Relief Socie-
ty Stake organization were presented by
Pres. Teasdale, and unanimously sustained.
Singing.  Benediction by Bro. George Ken-
dall.
MARY PITCHFORTH, Sec'y,
A. L. BIGLER, Cor. Sec'y.


EPHRAIM RELIEF SOCIETY.

	QUARTERLY CONFERENCE. 

	A Quarterly Conference of the Ephraim
Relief Society was held here on the 16th
and 17th of Nov., 1878, at which Confer-
ence Pres. John Taylor, Apostles Orson
Pratt, Erastus Snow and Joseph F. Smith
were present, from whom we received ex-


cellent instructions, both on co-operation
and the Saints dealing righteously with
each other. On the principle of righteous-
ness Bro. Joseph F. Smith particularly in-
sisted.
	The following report, from Aug. 17, '78,
to Nov. 16, '78, was read and accepted:
Received in sundries				$ 70 20
Sunday eggs, 125 doz.				25 11
Gleaning 27 bu. wheat				13 50
By sale of cheese, quilts, &c.			36 50
		Total					145 31
Cheese made for Society by the sis-
	ters,							600 lbs.
	Disbursements.
To the poor for rent, in storepay,
	provisions, &c				$40 00
Cheese on hand for the Temple		500 lbs.
Wheat stored for Zion				800 bu.
On hand and for sale, six homemade shawls.
			A. S. ARMSTRONG, Sec'y.


Y. L. M. I. A. REPORT.

			ROCKVILLE, Nov. 30th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We would like to be remembered in your
columns once more. We are situated in a
little, isolated place, but nevertheless we
feel it our duty to strive to become one with
our sisters in adding our mite to build up
the Kingdom of Heaven, and perform our
part in benefitting each other, and do that
which becometh daughters in Zion.
	We are trying to fulfill our mission; and
much praise is due some of our members,
who are the mothers of several small chil-
dren, for their regular and punctual attend-
ance; we think they are weaving for them-
selves a bright future, and "in that day
when the Lord comes to make up his jew-
els" they will be accepted. We enjoy our-
selves in meeting together to talk of the
blessings of our Father in heaven, for a
good spirit prevails and we feel that we are
obeying His commands, and that gives joy
and satisfaction to the faithful. We have
united with the young men in donating for
a library, consisting of about thirty volumes
suited generally to our wants. We hold
our meetings weekly in winter, and during
the summer semi-monthly for working and
semi-monthly for reading and speaking.
We have been afflicted a great deal this
summer with sickness, which has com-
pelled us to postpone our meeting together
for a season, but as the Lord overrules all
things for our good, we hope it will be the
means of waking us up to a sense of our
duties, and learn to live nearer the Lord
and serve Him more diligently. Your
paper is always a most welcome visitor and
is read with increasing interest.
	Praying that the blessing of God may
attend your efforts to publish peace and
good will we remain
		Your sister,
			HENRIETTA STOUT, Pres.


MADAME CAZAMJOU, the eldest sister of
"George Sand" has just died in France.
The death is also announced of the Com-
tesse de Saint Andres, the widow of the 
celebrated Spontini. She was a woman dis-
tinguished both for her wit and her beauty.
Chateaubriand spoke of her as a "woman
who of all others best knew how to say
amiable things with grace and noble famil-
iarity."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CRADLE SONG.
Softly croning a lullaby song,
Softly singing the whole day long,
Softly murm'ring, mother-love strong,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Busily working, now swift, now slow,
Busily planning how baby should grow,
Busily thinking- while soft and low-
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Lovingly folding the muslins down,
Lovingly kissing away each frown,
Lovingly smoothing the tresses of brown,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Forgetting that time will swiftly fly,
Forgetting that years will surely sweep by,
Forgetting that blossoms will sometimes die,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Praying so earnestly God's sweet smile,
Praying with heart so free from guile,
Praying so trustfully all the while,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Goodby, little mother with daintiest grace.
Goodby, little baby with flow'ret face,
Goodby, these words time cannot erase.
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
SYDNEY.


<r darkregion="" omespair.="" them="" they="" will="" -geefliieirprror,="" but="" cannot="" rectify="" it,="" the-time="" be="" past.="" jjot="" afraidicto-enter="" into="" ,plural="" mar-="" iagp,="" fordhq="" ,j.orihwui="" -prftyidft.jor="" those="" wri="" oj="" d="" p="" ji="" i="" 3,;w="" ill="" apdoiveepohiscom="" mand-="" offifiu="" o="" jt="" ©="" is="" :="">[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
			POLYGAMY.

	I have been blessed to have the Spirit of
the Lord to guide my thoughts from my
childhood. It was at that early period of
my life I became a believer in polygamy.
When about eight years old my father gave
me a Bible, and my mother told me to read
it through, and believe it. I began to read,
and my attention was drawn to the fact that
men in those days had more wives than
one, and that God was not displeased with
it. I wondered, and puzzled my childish
brain for the reason that men should have
but one wife in the present age of the
world. I dared not ask any one, for fear
that I would get laughed at, but came to
the conclusion that as Abraham, Jacob,
David, Solomon, and others had more wives
than one, and that they were good men and
the Lord loved them; it was the natural
order. But why it was changed was an
unsolved problem, to be solved at some fu-
ture day by the truth being revealed.
	I built many an air castle with a dear
playmate, gathering in fancy all the favor-
ite girls, and saying that we would all have
one husband and live together. Alas! for
air castles! The last I heard of Mary she
was enjoying single blessedness, and won-
dering how I could believe in plurality of
wives.
	I believe that children think more of
getting married than most people surmise,
and that the reason we so seldom hear them
speak of it is that they are afraid of a
laugh and rebuke.
	When I was twelve years old the im-
pression was made upon my mind that in a
few years I would find out that the ancient
order of marriage would be established
again. It always seemed right to me,

[Column 2]
while, as I grew up, and read of the evil
practices existing, my spirit abhorred evil
and was disgusted with vice.
	There is no comparison between the
heavenly principle of Celestial Marriage,
that leads through the gates of the city of
the New Jerusalem, and the infamous prac-
tices of the degraded, that lead to death
and destruction. One is exalting, the other
debasing. Polygamy schools a person (if
rightly lived), until jealousy and envy are
swept away from the heart, and a feeling
of peace and love dwells therein.
	When eighteen, the revelation on Celes-
tial Marriage had just been published. I
read it, and my mind being already pre-
pared, I readily believed it; but the princi-
ple of sealing was new, and troubled me.
I clearly saw that if I did not join the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
I could not be united with my husband
through eternity, as I had fondly hoped. I
had previously thought our own vows for
eternity, after marriage, would be binding.
I saw that unless I believed the Gospel,
my hopes were vain. I had wished to
know what Mormonism was from curiosity,
but this, the first principle I received, set
me to inquiring earnestly how to go to
work to join the Church. I saw that this
Gospel was true, that it was from God, and
I felt not to delay the day when I should
come into the Church. I was told baptism
was the way. My husband had been in-
vestigating Mormonism, and believed it,
and we were baptized, and my joy was full.
I believed then, as I know now, that this
revelation on Celestial Mariage was from
the Lord, and I have been blessed in be-
lieving it.
	The outsiders say our marriages are not
marriages; but it is exactly the contrary.
Their marriages are only binding until
death, ours reach into eternity. Ours are
the only valid ones, solemnized by the au-
thority of the priesthood—our children the
legitimate children of the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	The great cause of trouble in plurality
is the selfishness of women. It is natural
not to like to see another loved by the ob-
ject of our devotion. We are selfish and
narrow-minded in this, and think of our-
selves alone, but if we open our hearts to
the Spirit of God we will overcome this
spirit of evil, and if true love exists in our
hearts for our husbands the burden will be
easy, and we shall be desirous that our
husbands should obey this command of God,
and reap a rich reward.
	Jealousy springs from a love of our own
dear selves, and we look upon others as in-
truders, and by indulging in this miserable
feeling repel the love which we might en-
joy, and then imagine much that does not
exist, and make ourselves unhappy. Where
jealousy creeps in between a husband and
wife the consequences are always unhappi-
ness, and frequently blame is attached to
innocent ones when it is our own fault, by
giving way to the hideous spirit of jealousy,
that makes us unlovely and unlovable.
Many a woman pines with grief at the ap-
parent coldness of her husband, when the
beam is in her own eye and she cannot
clearly see. The coldness is in her manner
and she can discern nothing but faults in
her husband. Jealousy makes women act
unwisely; it takes away the noblest facul-
ties of the mind and plants unpleasant feel-
ings, prompted by the Evil One, to bring
destruction upon her. Prayer will over-
come it, for the Lord will not suffer that
one who prays earnestly for its banishment
shall suffer long the excruciating torment
of jealousy.

[Column 3]
	I bear my testimony that polygamy is
true—that this principle was revealed from
the heavens to bless both men and women,
and to crown them with glory. Persecutors
may persecute, laws may be made, but they
will not prevail, for they are antagonistic
to the laws of God, and we will obey the
divine command of heaven revealed by
Celestial Marriage, fearless of consequences.
Right is on our side, and might cannot
overcome it. Boldly, firmly let us obey
this righteous law, and let our enemies
howl; but the day will come, that if they
do not repent it will be worse than monoga-
my with men. As they have railed against
plurality and persecuted the Saints of the
Most High God for believing in this holy
order, they will have no wife to keep them
company in the dark region of despair.
There they will see their error, but cannot
rectify it, the time will be past.
	Be not afraid to enter into plural mar-
riage, for the Lord will provide for those
who do His will and keep His command-
ments. It is honorable in all, and brings
the blessings of the Father to His obedient
ones.			EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George, Nov. 10, 1878.


THE QUESTION.

	The papers of late have been teeming
with doings of the Anti-Mormon Crusade.
Why all this fuss, all this ado, about the
Mormon women? What charitable act of
kindness do these so-called Christian Ladies
of Utah think they are bestowing upon the
wives and daughters of the Latter-day
Saints? Are we serfs in a Republican gov-
ernment, that we cannot have the liberty
of serving God according to the dictates of
our own consciences? Or are we true-born,
loyal American citizens, many of us reared
under the flag of boasted freedom and lib-
erty, whose banner we hail with delight
and respect? If we are, let us have those
rights that we claim, and save yourselves
further trouble concerning our welfare.
	We love our husbands, we love our chil-
dren, we love our homes, and last but not
least we love our God, who has preserved
us when the so-called Christian denomina-
tions drove us from our homes to the far
West. Here the desert has been made to
blossom as the rose, homes have been made
for saint and sinner; and now, woman
seems to antagonize woman—a sad and
strange picture.
	If I understand the character of woman,
I would say all that is pure, virtuous and
ennobling, in its nature are, or should be,
her characteristics. Then why should you
charitable ladies seek to petition oppression
on a law-abiding and God fearing people.
	Is there anything more unholy in celestial
marriage where it is sacredly practised than
there was in the days of former Apostles,
Prophets, &c., believing God to be an un-
changeable being, knowing that He is the
same yesterday, to-day, and forever? I
fail to see the difference. I think it would
be well for all who are ignorant of the
principles of Mormonism to examine with
a pure and contrite spirit before they jump
at too Hasty conclusions.
	As wives of Latter-day Saints we are
satisfied with our position, and think the
Christian ladies of Utah could find a wider
field to labor in if they would look nearer
home and help put down some of the
abominations that are practised, such as
abortion, drunkenness, prostitution, &c.
	Wishing that all who seek the overthrow
of Mormonism will please observe the Mor-
mon Creed—Mind your own business.
	A MORMON WOMAN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
		A MERRY CHRISTMAS.

	The EXPONENT cordially extends to all its
readers, friends and patrons, young and old,
in whatever nook or corner of the broad land,
on this and the other side the Atlantic, in the
islands of the sea, on the Asiatic shore, to one
and all, the old-time greeting, "A merry Christ-
mas" and a happy one. We sometimes wonder
what the world would be like without a holi-
day season. Oh, the tender recollections called
forth as these days make their annual round.
They savor of childhood even in old age; and
they invariably bring their train of pleasure
and of pain. "Pleasure is born of pain," the
poet says, and life's lessons daily assure us all,
that joy and sorrow are twin sisters and walk
hand in hand.
	There certainly should be holidays, if it was
only for the children's sake; they look forward
with such genuine delight and childish expect-
ancy, and the anticipation is full of gladness,
almost surpassing the reality; and we are not
so sure but most older people have an intuitive
relish for the simple pleasures customary on
such occasions. There is much exquisite joy
and satisfaction in bestowing happiness on
those beloved, and there is truly pleasure that
passeth understanding almost, in associating
with dear friends and kindred at these holiday
re-unions. Many tender and precious memo-
ries, which the human heart holds in its sacred
embrace, are reawakened as friends meet and
exchange their kindly greetings; and the songs
and tales of "long ago" rush back again, until
memory's page is vivid with "the light of other
days."
	Many who have little time in the busy tide
of every day life for the cultivation of those
genial attributes of the soul, which are most
productive of true happiness, are thus awak-
ened and brought to a sense of the affection
and duty which they owe to their kindred and
friends, and feel the keenest enjoyment in
mingling in sweet intercourse with them, and
living over again the scenes through which
they have passed while separated from each
other. There is always much that is pleasant
to recount, much to be grateful for, and if there
are some deep griefs and heavy sorrows, there
is also sweetness and tenderness in the sympa-
thy of those who have hearts alive to the woes
of others.
	In the sacred and sweet ministrations of
charity there are various avenues open. There
are many hungry and cold and cheerless ones
in this world—poor, aye, yes, poor in that which
makes the truest riches; and there are tender
deeds and gentle acts, which fall like the dew
of heaven upon the hungry and yearning
hearts of those, who, like the modest poor in
worldly goods, make no complaint the world
may ever hear. God sometimes sends his com-
fort to such in ways which seem mysterious,

[Column 2]
and heart speaks to heart, and joy springs up
spontaneously as hands are touched that thrill
the inmost soul, and poor, weak mortals know
not why; but when the time of universal love
on earth shall come, then they who have en-
dured will endersta[-]d life's mysteries.
		The primal duties shine aloft, like stars,
		The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless,
		Are scattered at the feet of man, like flowers.
	The finest spiritual sense alone can detect
the true interpretation of the wonderful lessons,
which God is teaching in his own way, to those
who in humility and grace desire to compre-
hend His goodness and His love, and walk in
wisdom's ways. "For all her paths are pleas-
antness and all her ways are peace."
	But we will come back to tangible realisms.
Gifts and deeds of love and kindness that are
apparent; those which make the eye sparkle
with keen appreciation and warm the heart,
and those which cheer the body and minister
to its physical needs. When the storm rages
without, or the cold frost is biting—when old
Boreas whistles his shrillest notes, when the
fire crackles on the winter hearth and all is
bright and cheerful within the home of plenty
and good cheer, then forget not, ye favored
ones, those who sit cold and desolate beside the
empty hearth-stone, or wander homeless, house-
less, friendless and neglected—and spare not
your charities, but extend the helping hand—
deal bountifully to the poor of God's mercies to
you, so shall it be measured to you again in
like measure full and running over with bless-
ings. O sit not down in plenty while the poor
are cheerless, but scatter blessings while you
may, so shall your Heavenly Father remember
you when the day of trial comes, as come it
must and will to all. "Such," says the Savior,
"shall be mine when I make up my jewels."
	There is no truer pleasure than that which
follows a generous and noble action.
	Our heart goes out in tender pity deep and
strong to the thousands of friendless women—
wronged, cast out and abandoned—with no
real homes, perchance no shelter, no little chil-
dren, whose soft hands caress them lovingly
not even on this Christ's day—and we pray in
sincerity, God help them, and show them the
better way, and feed them with the bread of
life, and forgive them, for they are bitterly,
foully wronged and sinned against, and man-
made laws give them no sure protection and no
redress, while their pitiless betrayers and ac-
complices in crime walk unscathed and fearless
in the broad light of heaven, and some sit in
high places with crowns of worldly honor, but
God reigns and will avenge the wrongs of wo-
men betrayed and abandoned, on the heads of
those who are guilty of these foul deeds.
	This is a sad theme and s[-]arce befits thoughts
of holidays, but Christ's advent meant "peace
and good will" to all mankind, and forgiveness
to the erring ones who ask the Father, believ-
ing on His name and trusting in His divine
atonement, and doing the works which He did,
that are a pattern for all to follow. Then,
while the Christmas days are passing, and glad
hearts twine the evergreen and holly, while
gifts and pledges of affection pass from hand to
hand, and those who rejoice make merry in the
song and dance and social intercourse, and joy
sits smiling on the lap of plenty, and little
children romp and play and laugh, and older
ones join in the sports and pass away the glad-
some hours, we trust all such will share their
comforts and their luxuries with those whose
lot is lowlier, but who are still God's children,
molded in His image, and whose wants and
needs are just as great though unsatisfied—
whose longings for the infinite are still the
same, though the outward form be clothed in
humblest apparel.
				E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE RELIEF Society of North Jordan (M[-]s.
Eliza Spencer, President) report to us that they
held a meeting Nov. 3d, 1878, in which the sis-
ters freely expressed themselves on the subject
of Plural Marriage, protesting against the
Anti-Polygamy Crusade, endorsing the views
and ideas of those who spoke in the Mass Meet-
ing in Salt Lake City.  The Resolutions adopt-
ed in that meeting were read by the Secretary
of the Society and adopted unanimously.
	MISS M. A. Rockwood of this city, who has
been successful in silk-reeling, is teaching in
that department of silk manufacture.  She
gave us a call recently with two of her pupils,
Miss Tavy Pierce of Brigham City and Miss
Anne Clark of American Fork.  Each of the
girls brought with them specimens of their
work, which were very fine both in quality and
color, some just suitable for weaving, and
several colors of sewing silk ready for use.
Even these small efforts are commendable, and
as it is a trade, or branch of business suitable
for woman's employment, it is hoped many
will take hold of it.  Miss Clark is only twelve
years old, and she has learned rapidly.
	WE ARE indebted to the courtesy of Bro. W.
J. Silver for a specimen of the medals to be
awarded as prizes by the Deseret Agricultural
and Manufacturing Society.  The medal is
about the size of the silver dollar, and has the
symbol of industry (the bee-hive) upon one
side with the inscription "Deseret Agricultural
and Manufacturing Society, organized 1856;"
on the other side is a wreath very exquisitely
executed, and "Awarded to best."  The med-
als are the workmanship of Bro. Silver, an
enterprising and skillful machinist.  The en-
graving is by Mr. John Druce.  The design
and execution are both neat and appropriate.
	THE CITY is donning its holiday attire, the
market places are teeming with varieties of
good things, in the way of fruits, vegetables,
meats, fish, fowls and luxuries; and the mer-
chants pile high and higher their stores of mer-
chandise, and tempt the passerby with taste-
fully decorated windows.  Ornaments and toys
of every conceivable shape and form, from the
smallest trifle to the most elegant and costly
article are staring at one on every side; indeed,
one must walk blindfold not to be conscious
this is Christmas time.  What a contrast to
the Christmas of thirty years ago, when a few
hundred exiles, with their little ones, supped
on scant and homely fare and thanked God
who had brought them where they could en-
joy life, liberty and freedom of conscience.
	PROF. ED. Adolph respectfully announces to
the ladies of Salt Lake City that he is prepared
to teach them the art of Drawing, Cutting and
Fitting Dress Patterns in every style. This
art is made available by scientific study for the
present and future time and is of more value,
it is said, than any made use of by Mantua
Makers, and needs no preliminary study to
learn it.  To draw a correct Dress, Basque,
Polonaise, or coat Pattern, you need only paper,
pencil and a common drawing rule.  The
printed directions explain the drawing,
and the original sheet, which he will draw, has
every line drawn and a written explanation on
each line.  Prof. Adolph is a member of this
Church, and has recently gathered to this
place. He is anxious to get pupils in his busi-
ness in order that he may earn a livelihood.
He has no acquantances to  interest themselves
for him, being a foreigner (by birth Russian)
and a total stranger here.  Several ladies in
Ogden have learned the art of cutting, etc.,


from him, and are greatly pleased with the
success of his theory. His residence is South
Temple St., second house West of "Juvenile
Instructor" Office, at Mrs. Hawkins.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

MASS MEETING.

Of the Ladies of Utah County, held in the
	Meeting House, Provo City, Dec. 7th, 1878.

	Mrs. Mary John called the attention of the
audience. On motion, Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot
was chosen president, and Mrs. Caroline Dan-
iels and Lucy W. Kimball secretaries,
	After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs. J.
O. Duke.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot explained the ob-
ject of the meeting—to declare our sentiments
in regard to our holy religion, and to protest
against the "anti-polygamy petition."
	Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball then read the peti-
tion referred to.
	On motion of Mrs. H. A. Beebe, a committee
of seven ladies were appointed to draft resolu-
tions for the adoption of the meeting, namely:
Mrs. H. A. Beebe, Amanda McEwan, Jane
Jones, Annie K. Smoot, Sarah A. Scott, R. A.
Holden and Miss Tennie Smoot.
	After the withdrawal of the committee, Mrs.
M. T. Smoot said it is a worthy cause that
calls us together: we have received the princi-
ple of plural marriage, and incorporated it in
our religion and lives as a revelation from God
We have many things to encounter. Ladies
from the east have come here and have given
us the credit of busy, honest and frugal women.
Why cannot our sex allow us the privilege of
the husbands of our choice? No one is con-
strained from this privilege among us; we live
in unity with our husbands and one another.
We are not all saints, but we vary no more
than monogamic wives. We can trust our
husbands and know they act upon the com-
mands of God. We should be let alone. We,
as wives of latter-day saints should speak our
minds. We want no legislation in our behalf,
but wish it known by all, that there is one
above who revealed this law for our observ-
ance and he will legislate for us. 
	The committee on resolutions returning,
their report was read, also the resolutions
which were in substance as adopted by the
Sisters of Salt Lake City, with the addition of
the following:
	Resolved, That we the women of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of Utah
County, in mass meeting assembled, fully en-
dorse the preamble and resolutions passed by
the women of latter-day saints in mass meet-
ing assembled in Salt Lake City, Nov. 16th,
1878.
	Mrs. Mary John read an address in support
of the principle of plural marriage and of non-
interference by parties not affected by its prac-
tice.
	Mrs. Margaret A. Cluff said: We have assem-
bled as women of this county, to protest against
the infringement of our religious liberties,
and protest against any movement on the part
of Congress to injure our franchise or that of
our husbands. Many years ago, our people fled
from their homes, traveling through a desert.
This we preferred to yielding the religious con-
victions of our souls. God was with us and
preserved his work. Shall we yield our faith
in Him through whose help we have received
our now peaceful homes? No, never. We
have confidence that through the help of God
this attack like others will be productive of
good. They call that which is pure a crime.
Think of it sisters! The majority of mankind
may not feel polygamy consistent with their

[Column 2]

feelings, but it will be found that those most
opposed to it are impure. In justice to all we
hold dear, let us hold firmly to that we have
espoused.
	Mrs. Hannah Booth read an address in
which, in sound logical argument, she held to
the truth of the position in favor of plural
marriage, and non-interference; also Mrs.
Amanda McEwan read her views on the sub-
ject endorsing the resolutions of the meeting.
Mrs. H. A. Beebe could not refrain from enter-
ing her protest against the anti polygamy peti-
tion. Knew that the religion of the saints was
true and from God, she had been absent from
the Church some 30 years, and was knowing to
the evil practices of the world; knew full well
what was meant when she heard the women
of the world speak of the inconvenience of
children. The Gentile ladies of Salt Lake and
elsewhere could plainly see as they thought the
mote of polygamy in Utah, but failed to see
the beam of infanticide of such magnitude in
the east.
	Mrs. Rula Holden revived the memories of
those who first inaugurated tae principle of
celestial marriage, facing the world in its super-
stition and darkness. She was the daughter of
an American citizen who had fonght in the
revolutionary wars, and would not submit to be
disfranchised of her rights, religious or politi-
cal, without raising a voice against it.
	Mrs. Marilla Daniels read an address follow-
ed by the reading of the sentiments of Mrs.
Matilda E. Loveless.
	Mrs. Zina Young Williams was introduced
as the daughter of a polygamist and the widow
of a polygamist, and said after such an introduc-
tion I would be a feeble vessel if I did not bear
witness to the truth of the principle of our re-
ligion assailed by our enemies. That I am the
daughter of a polygamist, and entered into that
holy order of celestial marriage as a wife, is
true; and I glory therein. If all the ladies of
the United States stood before me I would still
say so. I pity those who are the tools of the
adversary of mankind. But we cannot tamely
submit to be trodden upon in our rights, and
we will not, but will protest against it. The
day will come when those who now oppose us,
will come bending for our aid, and we will ex-
tend it to them. This feeble crusade is a sec-
ondary consideration to the need of us watch-
ing our own lives and actions. The principle
the world so much condemns is one that is ele-
vating to our sex, making better women out of
good, and women, of those who would be but
babies all the days of their lives without its les-
son. We will bear our offspring in purity,
and fill these vales with God's children. May
we prove to ourselves and to the world that our
desire is for the elevation of our sex.
	Mrs. L. W. Kimball said: I am the grand-
daughter of a man who fought and was wounded
for the liberty of our country, and when I re-
member his bent form and stories of victory, I
cannot but claim my rights as an American
citizen, and as one of the first to enter the
order of plural marriage, having done so by
the command of High Heaven. The ladies of
the East would not persecute us if they really
knew us. We have become inured to persecu-
tion, but when our sex rise up against us, I
feel grieved indeed. God, in whom we trust,
will defend us if we live pure lives before
Him. My father was wounded at the Huans'
Hill massacre. I leave you to picture the
scene as he presented himself at our door with
his wounds. My husband was martyred—cut
down in his early manhood. Can I forget this
and overcome my feelings? Talk of loyalty
and nobility. Look at the wives before me,
who have stepped forward and said, "husbands

[Column 3]

do your duty in obeying this revelation of plu-
ral marriage and I will sustain you in doing
so." May God bless and help us in the dis-
charge of the duties we owe ourselves and
each other.
	Miss Caddie Daniels read a poem written for
the occasion by Mrs. Caroline Daniels.
	Miss Tennie Smoot said, I am proud to ac-
knowledge my parentage as the daughter of
a fourth wife. My father is a man whom I
revere and love. We have rights that the
country must respect. The anti-polygamists
would deny us all claims to them. They view
it that polygamy is not a portion of our relig-
ion, but they should know full well that it is
an essential part thereof. It would be far bet-
ter for the anti-polygamists, instead of coming
here to oppose our religion, to stay at home and
watch their own husbands, lest perchance they
should not keep to the path of virtue. 
	Mrs. Margaret N. Doosenberry said, the
former speaker is my sister. I love her, al-
though she is not my mother's child; but she
is the child of my father, and I love her with
all the sisterly regard and affection that I have
for any and all of the balance of my sisters and
brothers. I protest against any interfence in
our family ties, they are endeared to us and I
claim they are pure, and protest against the
petition of the anti-polygamists.
	Many other ladies raised their voices on the
occasion, protesting against the movement of
the anti-polygamists which threatened the
rights which they held dearer than life itself.
	The report of the committee was then pre-
sented and the resolutions adopted by the unan-
imous vote of the ladies assembled.
	After singing, the benediction was pro-
nounced by the wife of Bishop John Brown,
and the meeting adjourned sine die,	A. J.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at her residence, North Ogden, on
Thursday, Nov. 14, at the age of 66 years, Su-
sannah Hurst Maycock. Deceased, while vis-
iting her granddaughter on the Monday pre-
vious, accidentally fell, receiving injuries which
caused her death. She emigrated from Eng-
land in 1849, and came to Utah in 1852. She
was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
and Sunday School, being a faithful teacher in
both from their first organization in this place.
She was truly an able advocate and firm sup-
porter of the principles of the Gospel.
			JULIA A. WADE, Sec'y R. S.
	North Ogden, Hot Spring District.

			HOYTSVILLE, Dec. 1st, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Miss Emma Gunn died at Hoytsville, Nov-
14, 1878, of Epilepsy, aged 15 years and 6
months. She was a member of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of
Hoytsville. She was a faithful teacher, and
loved and respected by all who knew her.
She was an amiable young lady, full of energy,
and ever willing to do anything that was re-
quired of her. We all (members of the Asso-
ciation) feel to mourn her loss, and to sympa-
thize with the bereaved parents. She died in
full faith of a glorious resurrection.
			M. E. H., Sec'y Y. L. M. I. A.


A NEGRO woman in Virginia, 71 years
old, recently took it into her head to learn
to read, write and cipher; so she entered a 
school, and regularly every day brought ten
cents which she paid to the teacher.  She 
got along very well until near the close of 
the second week, when she "missed herles
son," and was ignominiously kept in during 
recess.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS.

	When reading the account of the Mass
Meeting of two hundred Gentile ladies
of Salt Lake City, with a view to put down
polygamy, I involuntarily asked myself the
questions—Why this new crusade?  Why
this new phase of persecution?  Why this
new departure from old established customs
and habits (for it has been the habit for men
to lead in persecution)?  Is it because the
Evil One has tried so many plans, and all
have failed to move the Saints in the least?
or is it because he thinks women are weak
and he can make an easy tool of them?
	While I was pondering these things in
my heart, these words of Scripture came
forcibly to my mind.  "They are left to be-
lieve a lie, that they all may be damned
who obey not the truth, and take pleasure
in unrighteousness."  Could those women
see what they are doing and the conse-
quences if their plans were carried out, I
think most of them would stop and ask
themselves if it would pay; I think they
would take time to reflect before proceed-
ing further.
	I was much pleased with the remarks of
our sisters in their mass meeting, and cor-
dially endorse the sentiments expressed by
them, and I believe most of the sisters
throughout this Territory would do the
same. I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when so many thousands are
ready to rise up and testify boldly to the
truth.
	I came into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in an early day, when our
numbers could not be counted by hundreds,
and I did not then expect I should ever see
such an array of witnesses for the truth. I
thank the Lord that he has spared my life
to see the present time, and I feel truly
thankful that our sisters have taken such a
bold stand for truth and righteousness.  We
know we are right when we resist such en-
croachments upon our civil rights—rights
that are guaranteed unto us by the grand
and noble Constitution framed by our fore-
fathers.  I feel sure this crusade will come
to naught.  God is at the helm of this king-
dom; He watches over His people, and He
has promised that "no weapon formed
against them shall prosper."  Is not that a
blessed promise?  Sisters, let us be faithful,
to our God; let us always be found using
our influence for good; seek at all times to
be guided by the Spirit of the living God,
and then we need not fear what our ene-
mies can do.
	JOANNA C. TEEPLES
	Holden, Millard Co., Dec. 3, 1878.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL MEETING.

	The Annual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety of Spanish Fork was postponed from
July 2d to Oct. 17, in consequence of sick-
ness in the family of our beloved President,
Sister Mary Ferguson.
	Sisters Zina D. and Martha B. Young and
Emmeline B. Wells were present by invi-
tation; the meeting house was tastefully
decorated for the occasion with specimens
of ladies' work, both useful and ornamental.
After opening remarks by the President
the Annual Report was read, which showed
a total of receipts by donations and other-
wise for the past year amounting to $271 37;
disbursements, $334. 03. The Society has
210 bushels of wheat stored in a good sub-
stantial bin; a brick building is in course
of erection, to be used for a meeting house;
233 members are enrolled. A feeling of

[Column 2]

union exists, which indicates a healthy and
prosperous condition. After the Financial
report was read and accepted, the President
stated that the sisters often met and worked,
and thus increased the value of material
donated; hence the difference between the
receipts and disbursements.
	Sister Z. D. Young was much pleased
with the report; it brought to her mind
the first Society that was organized. Our
object should be to save souls; we are a
practical people. Urged mothers to find
suitable employment for their girls, and be
sure to keep them from Salt Lake City,
where there are many temptations for the
young. Advised the girls to study the
harmony of colors, and dress in a suitable
manner. Also spoke of the influence
mothers exert over the minds of their chil-
dren. Gave much valuable instruction and
many useful suggestions, especially in re-
gard to the silk-industry; was pleased to
see so many mulberry trees in Spanish
Fork.
	Sister M. B. Young felt that there were
good sisters here, and advised them to at-
tend to their prayers three times a day.
Believed many present would live to see
the Savior come. Advised the sisters to
store up grain, raise silk, &c. Spoke also
upon the County organization, and upon
many other principles pertaining to our
salvation, and concluded by blessing the
sisters.
	Sister E. B. Wells was suffering from a
severe cold, but was much pleased with her
first visit to Spanish Fork; said she had
many dear friends here. Said there is a 
great field of labor and honor for the women
of Zion, but we must prepare ourselves for
it; it will not come to us, we must develop
our talents, use our capabilities, and learn
the lessons of life. Some have thought
the women of Utah will become extremists
in politics and neglect home and its duties,
but she felt there was no danger of that
while we had the Spirit of God and the
Holy Priesthood for a balance. The women
of the world are watching to see what we
will do with the suffrage—how it will bene-
fit woman as a class. Let us use it wisely,
and seek to understand this government,
and make good use of all our opportunities.
Mothers should be awake to the necessity
of training their children, and teach them
the principles of the Gospel and how to ap-
ply them in their lives.
	Closing remarks were made by President
Mary Ferguson, who announced a meeting
in the evening.
	Evening meting.—Opening remarks
were made by Pres. Ferguson, who said
the object of the meeting was to organize
a Primary Society, to be composed of chil-
dren; she would leave the organization
with Sister Z. D. Young.
	Sister Young then rose and gave much
valuable counsel and instruction to the
young, and said the success of the Primary
Association depended upon the mothers.
A vote was then called to know if the
mothers wished such an organization. The
vote was unanimous. An organization was
then effected, with the following officers:
	Mary Ann McClean, President,
	Agnes Lewis,		Counselors,
	Almira Stoker,
	Emily Snell (11 years old), Secretary,
	Miss Hannah (11 years old), Ass't Sec'y. 
	The officers were then set apart by Bish-
op Snell and Counselors, after which Bishop
Snell made some very appropriate remarks.
	Sister M. B. Young then addressed the
children.

[Column 3]

	The meetings were largely attended by
both sexes, and all felt edified and grateful
to our sisters who had come to visit us, for
their labor of love; and we pray that the
blessing of God may ever attend them in
their endeavors to help in the establishment
of the kingdom of God on the earth.
	At the present date the Primary Asso-
ciation numbers 225 members, and is creat-
ing much interest under the able manage-
ment of its President. The young secreta-
ries are doing their part well. 
	HANNAH CORNABY, Sec'y.
Spanish Fork, Nov. 23, 1878.


THOUGHTS ABOUT BOOKS.

	It is a common error to date book mak-
ing and the beginning of literary enlight-
enment from the time of the invention of
printing in the Fifteenth Century. There
are many people, otherwise well informed,
who have an idea that the world is indebted
solely to the printing press for the rich lit-
erary treasures it possesses, and who enter-
tain a vague belief that until its use a dense
cloud of ignorance overhung all the nations
of the earth. A recent writer in one of the
leading English magazines makes the
astonishing statement that the "genius of
Gutenberg and Faust heralded the day,
after a long intellectual night that had its
beginning with creation." How utterly
senseless and foolish such language is, any
schoolboy knows, or ought to know. Print-
ing is merely a change in the manner of
production. Books were made and read
thousands of years before the day of Guten-
berg, and multitudes of authors have flour-
ished and been well known of the people
in all the centuries since the first historical
record was written.
	There is evidence that a high state of
civilization existed in Assyria three thous-
and years ago, and that literature flourished
in the ancient cities of Nineveh and Baby-
lon as extensively and successfully as it
does among us to day. The discovery a
few years ago of the library of Assurbanipal,
King of Assyria 700 B. C., gives us a fair
idea of the character of the books of that
time. They consisted of tablets of clay,
varying in size from an inch to nine inches
long, covered with characters, in some
cases so minute that they could only be read
by the aid of the microscope. After years
of patient study the key to this last method
of writing was discovered, and the contents
of these innumerable and singular books
were laid open to the world. They consist-
ed of historical records, chronological, and
astronomical tablets, religious treaties,
grammars of various languages, works upon
science, art, social regulations and customs,
the laws and general literature. These
inscriptions were stamped from engraved
blocks, a fact which shows that large num-
bers of copies must have been made, and
must have been extensively manufactured
and commonly read by the people of that
time.
	Greek literature, says a modern writer,
began in a period of indefinite antiquity[-]
as long ago as 1000, B. C. the art of poetic-
al composition existed in the highest per-
fection. The admirable structure and the
wonderful language of the Homeric poems
imply a long period of antecendent culture.
Books of that day were written upon papy-
rus, and were copied by professional scribes.
The inner bark of trees was also used,
and sometimes the leaves of the palm
Vellum, leather and parchment, differently


prepared skins, were used later. The Chi-
nese have a literature dating back more
than 3,500 years. The "Book of Changes,"
one of the revered Chinese classics, made
its appearance 1150 B. C. The books of
this nation were made for many centuries
of bamboo tablets. About 300 B. C. the
present style of writing with a brush was
introduced, silk having taken the place of
the tablets. Two thousand years ago the
imperial library of China consisted of 3,123
volumes of classics, 2,705 on philosophy,
1,318 of poetry, 790 on military affairs, 2,528
on mathematics, and 868 on medicine.
Printing in China was invented near the
close of the Sixth Century, nearly 900 years
before it become known in Europe. In
ancient Rome the literary needs of the peo-
ple were abundantly supplied by the pen.
Professional scribes were numerous, and
papyrus paper was cheap. Books were
made faster than they could be sold, to the
great disgust of some of the noble Roman
authors. The scribes whose manual labour
produced these books were educated slaves
and so efficient in their craft that type and
presses could hardly have made books more
common. Long before the Christian era
the poet Horace complained because his
books were in the hands of everybody.
	The form of ancient books differed with
the materials from which they were com-
posed. Tablets and leaves of metal and
lead were of the same square form as our
books to-day; when flexible materials like
papyrus and parchment came into use, it
was found convenient to make them in the
form of rolls. The internal arrangement
of books has undergone many modifications
since the earliest times. At first there was
no division of words, all the letters in the
line running together. Gradually the sep-
aration took place, and by degrees, in the
course of time, a work was broken up into
sentences and paragraphs, and punctuated.
	The immense libraries formed in ancient
times are proofs of the abundance of books
and the general condition of literature in
the various countries of Asia and Europe.
The famous Alexandrian library, founded
nearly 300 B.C., contained 700,000 vol-
umes. The library of the king of Perga-
mus, 200,000, and there were numerous
libraries, public and private in Rome,
Athens, Samos, and other cities in Greece,
Egypt, Spaiu and Italy, numbering from
10,000 to 50,000 volumes. The library
founded by Constantine at Constantinople
contained 120,000 volumes, and that at
Cairo is said by Arab writers to have held
1,600,000 volumes. There were other great
libraries in Bagdad, Tripoli and Fex. Un-
der the Moors, Spain possessed 60 public
libraries, the principal one, that at Cordova,
containing 406,000 volumes. Most of these
collections were destroyed in the wars,
which devastated the various countries and
cities where they existed, the remnants
which escaped owing their preservation to
being concealed in convents and monaster-
ies.—Book Bulletin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORDS TO BOYS.

	I would keep "better hours" if I were a
boy again; that is, I would go to bed ear-
lier than most boys do. Nothing gives
more mental and bodily vigor than sound
rest when properly applied. Sleep is our
great replenisher, and if we neglect to take
it regularly in childhood, all the worse for
us when we grow up. If we go to bed
early, we ripen; if we sit up late, we de-
cay; and sooner or later we contract a dis-
sease called insomnia, allowing it to be per-


manently fixed upon us, and then we begin
to decay, even in youth. Late hours are
shadows from the grave.
	If I were a boy again, I would practise
to perseverance oftener, and never give up a
thing because it was hard or inconvenient
to do it. If we want light, we must con-
quer darkness. When I think of mathe-
matics I blush at the recollection of how of-
ten I "gave in" years ago. There is no
trait more valuable than a determination to
persevere when the right thing is to be ac-
complished. We are inclined to give up
too easily in trying or unpleasant situations,
and the point I would establish with myself,
if the choice was again within my grasp,
would be never to relinquish my hold on a
possible success if mortal strength or brains
in my case were adequate to the occasion.
That was a capital lesson which a learned
Professor taught one of his students in the
lecture-room after some chemical experi-
ment. The lights had been put out in the
hall, and by accident some small article
dropped on the floor from the Professor's
hand. The Professor lingered behind, en-
deavoring to pick it up. "Never mind,"
said the student, "it is no consequence
to-night, sir, whether we find it or no."
"That is true," said the Professor; "but it
is of grave consequence to me, as a princi-
pal, that I am not foiled in my determina-
tion to find it." Perseverance can some-
times equal genius in its results. "There
are only two creatures," says the Eastern
proverb, "who can surmount the pyramids
—the eagle and the snail."
	—Ex. 	JAMES T. FIELDS.


THE ELEVENTH Annual Washington
Convention of The National Woman Suf-
frage Association will be held in Lincoln
Hall, 9 and D. Streets, Washington, D. C.,
January 9 and 10, 1879. The Riggs[-] House,
corner 15th and G. Streets, will be the
head-quarters of the delegates, where all
may first report. It is hoped and expected
that private entertainment will be secured,
and delegates entertained free of charge.
The Association invite women from all
parts of the country. They ask that those
who think they will be at the Convention
to report as soon as possible to the Corres-
ponding Secretary, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Fayetteville, New York, who has such
names in charge. Contributions to the
Convention are to be forwarded to Ellen
Clarke Sargent, Treasurer, 1733 De Sales
St., Washington. Letters to the Conven-
tion should be addressed to the Cor. Sec.,
care of Ellen H. Sheldon, No. 7 Grant place,
Washington. Delegates are requested to
meet for consultation at the house of Belva
A. Lockwood, woman lawyer, 619 F. Street,
at 7 o'clock, Tuesday evening, Jan. 7, 1879.


SANTA CLAUS IN NORWAY.—The presen-
tation of Christmas gifts in Norway is the
chief diversion of the season, and in this
many strange customs are observed. Thus,
in some districts the gift is hid in a truss
of hay or straw, or sometimes it is placed in
a bag of chaff. The donater then watches
his opportunity, and slyly fixes the truss of
hay above the door of his friend's room.
When the latter enters, the hay falls on
him, to the great enjoyment of the kindly
conspirators, who are probably watching
close at hand. Then ensues an eager and
exciting search. The truss is ripped open,
hands thrust in and out through the straw
or hay till the gift is found, at which mo-
ment the donaters generally disclose their
presence by shouts of delight, and the ex-


pressions of good wishes for the season and
the year to come. The bag of chaff is also
a source of endless and innocent merriment.
In its fall from the top of the door, it covers
the receiver with a cloud of dust, and small
particles that adhere to his beard enter the
fur of his coat,and make him feel as uncom-
fortable and look as ridiculous as can well be
desired by the most ardent prompters of
practical jokes. But as he opens his eyes,
he at once notices lying in the mass around
him a welcome present which has been se-
creted in the chaff. It may well be im-
agined with what delight children join in
this rough play, and how it materially as-
sists to pass the long winter season.


OVERSTRAINED HEARTS.

	No organ in the body is so liable to be over-
worked as the heart, according to a writer in
Chambers' Journal. When every other part of
the body sleeps, it keeps on its perpetual motion.
Every increased effort or action demands from the
heart more force. A man runs to catch a train,
and his heart beats audibly. He drinks wine and
his blood rushes through its reservoir faster than
ever was intended by nature. His pulse rises
after each course of dinner. A telegram arrives,
and his heart knocks at his side. And when any
one of these 'excitements" is over; he is conscious
of a corresponding depression— a "sinking" or
"emptiness," as it is called. The healthy action
of all the members of our frame depends upon the
supply of blood received from this central fountain.
When the heart's action is arrested, the stomach,
which requires from it a large supply of blood,
becomes enfeebled. The brain, also waiting for
blood, is inactive. The heart is a very willing
member; but if it be made to fetch and carry in-
cessantly—if it be "put upon," as the unselfish
member of a family often is, it undergoes a dis-
organization which is equivalent to its rupture.
And this disorganization begins too often nowa-
days in the hearts of very young children, parents
know that if their sons are to succeed at any of
these competitive examinations which have now
become so exigent, high-pressure is employed.
Hence young persons are stimulated to overwork
by rewards and punishments. The sight of a
clever boy who is being trained for competition is
truly a sad one. These precocious coached-up
children are never well. Their mental excitement
keeps up a flush, which like excitement caused
by strong drink in older children, looks like health,
but has no relation to it.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	What an English Physician says About the
Properties of Wild Sage:
	As I was leaving home to fill
my mission in this country, I met Mrs. M. J.
Coray, who requested me to have a bottle of "wild
sage oil" tested by some of the experts of the
country. Being acquainted with the eminent Dr.
Skelton, of Bradford, I submitted a sample for
his analysis and testation; and in a letter to
me received the following:
	"What the chemical constituents of the oil are,
I cannot tell you; its medical properties, however
are stimulant, diaphoretic (power to increase pers-
piration) and expectorant, (tending to promote
discharges from the lungs or throat.) It is also a
good emmenagogue. It acts especially upon the
throat in all its various inflammatory conditions,
whether of the tonsil fauces asphyxia, or laryn-
gitis, it is equally useful. I have tried it in the
cases named, and have found it invaluable."
		Thomas Child
36 Clarence St., Bedford, England, Oct. 8th, 1878.


GEORGE HENRY LEWES, the philosopher,
and husband of George Eliot, is dead.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FIRST QUARTERLY Meeting of Primary As
sociation of Farmington, held Dec. 7th, at two
o'clock p.m. We were honored with the pres-
ence of Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Mary Schettler
and Ellen S. Clawson of Salt Lake City. Mrs.
Nancy A. Clark, Superintendent of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Davis Co., Mrs. Hortensia Leonard,
President of the Relief Society of Farmington,
and a number of the parents of the children
were also present. Of the brethren, Bro.
Christensen and Bro. James Loynd, organist.
We had a very good time, although the
weather was inclined to be stormy. After
singing, prayer, and call of roll, the Quarterly
Report was read by the Secretary, Miss S. E.
Richards.
	Report: The Primary Mutual Improvement
Association of Farmington was organized Aug.
11th, 1878, with a President, two Counselors,
Secretary and Assistant Secretary. The first
meeting not being quite successful, we date
our commencement from Sept. 7th. Number
of members two hundred and fifteen. Meet-
ings held, thirteen. Average attendance, sev-
enty. In the course of the term the children
were called upon for a five cent donation to
get means to buy a Record book, stationery,
and Reward of Merit cards. The sum of three
dollars and seventy cents was collected, in-
cluding a donation by the President; Counsel-
ors and Secretary of twenty cents each; also
twenty-five cents given by Sisters Mary S. and
Nancy A. Clark.
Paid towards book....................................$.70
Stationery.................................................. 25
One hundred cards of the Ten Command-
	ments........................................................ 1 00
Two hundred cards Reward of Merit....... 1 75
	The exercises of the meetings are similar to
the following; Singing, prayer, call of roll, re-
marks made, local questions asked, and an-
swered in concert; select readings, and explan-
ations made; singing and recitations by the
members; reciting some of the commandments
in concert; a few general remards, then sing-
ing, prayer, and adjournment.
	After the report was read, recitations were
given by two little boys; two songs were sung
during the services. The rest of the time was
taken up by remarks from the sisters. The
children being delighted with the questions
asked them.
	A. S. Rogers, President,
	S. E. Richards, Secretary.


"GRACE GREENWOOD" in one of her
agreeable letters from abroad, speaks of the
Old Paddington Church Yard in London,
where are buried a number of noted per-
sons. First Sarah Siddons, the queen of
English tragedy, lies in the most desolate
part of the yard, immediately on the walk,
without a tree, plant, or bit of turf near it.
Here also is the simple altar-tomb whereon
lies the figure of John Bunyan. Thackeray
and John Leech lie under plain altar-tombs
almost side by side. Tom Hood's is near
by, surmounted by a bronze bust. Over
Leigh Hunt's grave is a marble bust, said
to be marvellously like him. A little away
from Hunt's grave is that of "Sophia, wife
of Nathaniel Hawthorne." Isaac Watts the
Christian poet, and Macready the actor, are
also buried in this venerable old grave-yard.


[Column 1]
MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell’[-] Te[-]ephone, and Professor Edison’s
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

[Column 2]
NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of 
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878

AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durab'e white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,	
ju[--] received from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns. Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware Shoes, Dixie  [-]otton Batting, and other goods,  
at the Commission House. 	
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Residencc—Ephriam, Sanpete County. 
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and disease's of
women.

THE LAMB KNITTING MACHINE AGENCY.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South  
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
		Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc,
at Reduced Prices.	 
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
		JOSEPHINE GREGORY,	
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.	 
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.	
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Picturcs of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to	  C. R. SAVAGE,
		Salt Lake City, Utah.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[--]rative Store. 
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every	Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

[Column 3]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-	
ference to call at her show room and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice 
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Prushes. Velvet and Rib
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers
please call Ladies’ Hair Work in all its branches. Good 
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL.
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings’ Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Rome Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from 
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find 
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every
thing pertaining to a first class Millinery Establishment
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed 
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.  Wm. Jennings,Vice-Pres’t.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward Salesroom and factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who d[-]sire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders [-]o
WM. H. ROWE.
	SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
