[Vol12 | August 1925 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Editor Abroad Alice Louise Reynolds]

The Editor Abroad ITALY By Alice Louise Reynolds.

The tourist is, as a rule, either in search of places of interest or of beauty.

At the moment we are in what is generally conceded to be the most beautiful mountain city of the world, Imsbruck, in Austria.

Much has been written about the heauty of this city of the Tyrol; suffice to say, at present, that it would be a difficult matter to write extravagantly about it.

Italy, the subject of this chapter, has its beauty spots, yet it is not generally sought because of its many and varied interests.

Italy is the home of three civilizations, and reflects a fourth in a very extraordinary manner, We left our readers last time at the gates of the citv of Pompeii.

Pompeii was built by the Greeks, and reflects Greek civilization to a degree that it is not easy to measure.

The best sculpture that Italy exhibits, in her exceptionally fine museums, both in Naples and Rome, is that which has come from Greece.

An eminent writer on Greek art, declares that all that is best in Roman sculpture is Greek, and that which is worst is Roman.

Italy was the seat of the old Roman Empire; on every side one sees ruins that bear eloquent testimony of the greatness of the empire that practically dominated the world.

In fact, tourists sometimes get very tired of looking at these ruins, for they are at best rather unsightly. ''In Italy," exclaimed an American girl, in a jocular fashion, "if it isn't a ruin, its a wreck." To be sure, it is the meaning that attaches to all these things that makes them important.

Then we have the Italy of the middle ages and the Italy of the Renaissance?the Italy of the Roman Catholic Church.

The period that built a most extraordinary number of fine churches and covered the ceilings and walls with paintings such as churches have seldom, if ever, in the history of our world been embellished with.

Today we have a new Italy that has brought together all the little republics and petty kingdoms that used to exhaust themselves' fighting one another.

This new Italy is about fifty-five years of age, and has as its king the grandson of the man largely responsible for its unity.

This new Italy is placing the entire civilization of the world under great obligation to it, because of the manner in which it is seeking to reveal and conserve the past.

In 1906, when we first visited Italy, much of the city of Pompeii was unearthed; on our last visit, only a few weeks ago, very much more is visible, THE EDITOR ABROAD 419 and the museum at Naples, which is the custodian of most of the interesting and precious things taken from the city, has been enriched immeasurably.

The great paintings of the Middle Ages such as the Aurora, to be foand on the ceiling of a Roman palace, and the Last Supper, in Milan, are receiving the utmost intelligent care that they may be preserved.

Because of the many interests of Italy, tourists are rushing there from all parts of the world.

This is particularly true of the present year, for this is a year of Jubilee, observed every twenty-five years by the Roman Catholic Church.

From our own, city of Boston, the cardinal, who resides there, headed a party of five hundred pilgrims to the city of the Pope.

Our guide in Naples told us that he would not be at all surprised if six million tourists visited Naples this year.

Very likely, more tourists see Naples than any other city in Italy, as the cruising vessels usually stop there for a day or so and then proceed on their way either East or West. 'See Naples and die," was the exclamation of the Italian poet who stood on a height from which he could see the horseshoe of the lovely Vesuvian bay; but fortunately most people are not content with seeing only the bay, having seen that, they want to see more; so that Naples is only one of a group of Italian cities that is feeling the influx of visitors.

We heard it said that unusually cheap rates had been offered to Sicily to divert the tourist to a part where the hotels are not entirely occupied.

Tourists were held back from Florence in the month of April and during that same month Milan found it impossible to accommodate the many visitors asking to be taken care of.

The city of Naples is often the first city of Italy entered by the tourist.

It is famous for its situation on the bay; it was in a hotel overlooking its blue waters that Caruso breathed his last.

Its picturesqueness is added to by Mount Vesuvius, that juts up in its semi-circle, emitting a cloud of smoke by day and a pillar of fire by night.

The city of Naples is interesting because its great museum contains all of what is best that has been taken from the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum, as well as many of the finest treasures of Greek art that were brought from Greece to adorn the Villa of the Emperor Hadrian.

And again, Naples is of interest, because it is the largest city of the Italy of today.

Yet we fancy some of our readers are asking, "Are there no drawbacks to this city of blue skies and blue waters?" and we, of course, unhesitatingly admit that there are.

When we first saw Naples, in 1906, it was the dirtiest city we had ever seen, and it was infested with beggars, many of whom asked us for alms, but some who demanded a tip for such a slight service as pointing out a door in a building we had already paid to enter, or for that matter closing a door behind us.

Since our first visit to Italy, we have seen the Orient, so that we know that there are 
 other dirty cities, and other cities infested with beggars.

However, it is only fair to say that Naples is much cleaner and much freer from beggars than it was in 1906. We had in our party, through Italy, a trained nurse and her companion a trained librarian.

These two ladies were constantly offended, as were we all, because the food in the shops is exposed, and because many laws of sanitation are much more honored in the breach than in the observance.

To be sure, the Italians have some distance to travel before they arrive at American standards in matters of sanitation, yet the fact that they forbid the burying of the dead within and about the churches as they did formerly, insisting that the cemetery shall be far distant from the heart of the city, shows that they are waking up to these matters.

Passing from Naples to Rome, the capital of the present kingdom of Italy, we find proof of the popular saying that size is not everything.

Rome is the third city of Italy, in size, Naples and Milan surpassing her in the number of her population; yet Rome is by all odds the most important city in italy.

Rome is important because she was the capitol of the Old Roman Empire, and because the most important ruins of that city are found either within her ancient walls, or at a not very great distance from them.

Rome as the chief city of the Roman Catholic church is also of great importance, and this year it is the city to which pilgrims' feet are turned from all over the world.

Rome is, above all other cities in the world, the city of churches.

Its churches are very numerous, and some of them are very beautiful as well as very important.

In her museums are found some of the most priceless treasures of Greek and Roman art that this world possesses;: she is conserving for all the world valuable old books, valuable pieces of sculpture, valuable pieces of painting and valuable presents, to the various Popes, presented by the crowned heads of all the world.

Mr. H. H. Powers in speaking of modern Rome, speaks of her as a city "masking the monuments of church and empire" which we take is a very unique way of saying that modern Rome owes her greatness to the fact that she was the seat of the Great Roman Catholic church for many centuries." Mr. Powers adds, "It is with varied emotions that the thoughtful traveler enters the Eternal City," and concludes his paragraph with the exclamation, ' "What city is like Rome!" an exclamation that is apt to find echo 'in the minds and hearts of all who thoughtfully enter there.

Then there is Florence, the city that for its art output has had _only one peer since the world began; for Athens is the only other city, since the dawn of civilization, that has given to the world the names of as many noted sculptors, painters and writers as has Florence.

Florence has made a real contribution to the world in architecture, painting, sculpture and in literature.

All nations A STREET SCENE IN NAPLES are enriched because of her achievements, consequently all nations should rise and call her blessed.

Florence had two great leaders, Lorenzo de' Medici and Savonarola.

The first drew to his own fireside and his own table men of promise and gave them encouragement.

Verily, his reward has been great, for if he did not entertain angels unawares he entertained geniuses of the highest order.

The other man, the great Savonorola, set these men's souls on fire with righteous impulses.

Verily, both have their reward, for Florence nursed the genius of the man who painted what has been called the greatest of all Christian paintings, "The Last Supper," and gave to the world the greatest of all Christian sculptors, and perhaps, also, the greatest of all Christian architects, in Michelangelo.

And perhaps, what Michelangelo did was even more than that, for Mr. Powers tells us that when Michelangelo wrought his wonder-works in marble, the best of Greek art was unknown to the Italians, consequently he boldly states, "that the feeblest work of Michelangelo ever executed was nobler than the best antique," that the Italians then knew.