LESSON III (Third Week in October)
Literature
EDWIN MARKHAM
Edwin Markham is a western poet. He was born in Oregon City, Oregon, April 23, 1853, and reared in the state of California. His father was Samuel Markham, and his mother Elizabeth Winchell Markham. His childhood days were spent on his mother's rancho, near Suisun, California, as the family moved to California when the boy was five years of age. During his boyhood days, he worked at farming, blacksmithing, and at herding sheep and cattle. He attended the San Jose Normal School where he specialized in ancient and modern languages. Later, he continued his studies in other institutions of the west. He married Anna Catherine Murphy, in 1897. For many years he devoted himself to teaching and educational work. He was principal and superintendent of schools in California until 1889, at which time he resigned to devote himself to literary work. He has been a contributor to the newspapers of California and the magazines of the United States since his early boyhood. In his most famous collection "The Man with the Hoe and Other Poems," he states that many of the poems contained therein appeared in Scribners, The Century, The Atlantic and the San Francisco Examiner.

It was our good fortune to hear Edwin Markham in a lecture, in 1915. His full face and white hair made him resemble the poet Longfellow. And his complexion brought to mind the well known lines of Dr. Holmes, "And his cheeks were like a rose in the snow." To the great delight of his audience, he made several references, during the evening, to the Man with the Hoe, which is undoubtedly one of the greatest of American poems. Edwin Markham did not ignore the natural beauty about him; he has paid many tributes to the flowers, trees, and birds of his home state, having immortalized the well known California poppy. Yet Edwin Markham has not been interested primarily in nature. His great heart has gone out, above all else, to man, who was given dominion over God's other creations. Among the best known of French painters is Jean Francois Millet. Before Millet, no painter in France had dared to portray the homely life of the peasant on canvas. Millet startled his contemporaries by painting, The Angelus, The Gleaners, Feeding the Birds, and The Man with the Hoe. Then the day came when painter and poet met. Edwin Markham looked into the face of Millet's peasant and the meaning of it all bore in upon his soul with such tremendous force, and stirred the life within him to such depths, that he gave us "The Man with the Hoe," a poem that has been translated into practically every well known European language and also Japanese:
God made man in His own image, in the image of God made He him.?Genesis.
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, The emptiness of ages in his face, And on his back the burden of the world. Who made him dead to rapture and despair, A thing that grieves not and that never hopes, Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox? Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw? Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow? Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the thing the Lord God made and gave To have dominion over sea and land; To trace the stars and search the heavens for power; To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the Dream He dreamed who shaped the suns And marked their ways upon the ancient deep? Down all the stretch of hill to its last grief There is no shape more terrible than this? More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed? More filled with signs and portents for the soul? More fraught with danger to the universe.
What gulfs between him and the seraphim! Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades? What the long reaches of the peaks of song, The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look; Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop; Through this dread shape humanity betrayed, Plundered, profaned, and disinherited, Cries protest to the Judges of the World, A protest that is also prophecy.
O masters, lords and rulers in all lands, Is this the handiwork you give to God, This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched? How will you ever straighten up this shape; Touch it again with immortality; Give back the upward looking and the light; Rebuild in it the music and the dream; Make right the unmemorial infamies, Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes?
O, masters, lords and rulers in all lands, How will the Future reckon with this Man? How answer his brute question in that hour When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world? How will it be with kingdoms and with kings? With those who shaped him to the thing he is? When this dumb Terror shall reply to God After the silence of the centuries?
America has in the main been proud of the sterling character of her poets. Mr. Markham deserves to stand beside Longfellow, Lowell, and Bryant, for his poems breathe the same high purpose, the same trust in God, and the same purity of soul as do theirs. As evidence of these characteristics, we include the poem entitled "A Prayer."
Teach me, Father, how to go Softly as the grasses grow; Hush my soul to meet the shock Of the wild world as a rock; But my spirit prop with power, Make as simple as a flower. Let the dry heart fill its cup, Like a poppy looking up; Let life lightly wear her crown, Like a poppy looking down When its heart is filled with dew, And its life begins anew.
Teach me, Father, how to be Kind and patient as a tree, Joyfully the crickets croon Under shady oak at noon; Beetle on his mission bent Tarries in that cooling tent,

Let me, also, cheer a spot, Hidden field or garden grot? Place where passing souls can rest On the way and be their best.
The character and work of Abraham Lincoln has always tempted the poet as well as the writer of fiction. Many tributes have been paid the martyred President in verse, but none are nobler, and in none does the verse move with more rhythemic majesty, than in the tribute of Edwin Markham. We can not publish the entire poem in this lesson, we shall include only a few of the choicest lines but should be glad to have the members of the class read the poem in its entirety if they have access to it:
"A man that matched the mountains and compelled The stars to look our way and honor us."

"And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a kingly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky."
Howard Willard Cook says, "Mr. Markham has never been a prolific writer as poets today go, but his verse has attained a distinction and fineness that some of our younger writers might do well to pattern from." California, like Indiana, saw fit to honor her chief poet by inaugurating a Markham Evening. April 30 has been set aside as Markham Evening.
Markham has the voice and the soul of the poet. This voice speaks through such poems as, The Poet, Joy of Morning and The Joy of the Hills. Because of the freedom and joy breathed through the lines in The Joy of the Hills, we conclude our lesson with it:
I ride on the mountain tops, I ride, I have found my life and am satisfied, Onward I ride in the blowing oats, Checking the field-larks' rippling notes? Lightly I sweep From steep to steep: Over my head through the branches high Come glimpses of a rushing sky; The tall oats brush my horse's flanks; Wild poppies crowd on the sunny banks; A bee booms