			SISTER'S MEETINGS.

	Monday, Oct. 22nd, we left Salt Lake
City to visit some of the Northern settle-
ments. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and myself arrived in Mendon, safe
and well, where we were warmly welcomed.
	Tuesday, 23d, we met with the Relief
Society at 2 o'clock, had an excellent meet-
ing; the sisters expressed themselves
greatly blessed with the good counsel and
instructions given them by Sisters Snow
and Young. In the evening we met with
the Young Ladies' and Gentlemen's Mu-
tual Improvement Associations; had a good
meeting, every one felt the Spirit of God
was there.
	Wednesday, 24th, Bishop Hughes kindly
accompanied us to Wellsville, where we at-
tended two meetings, and were hospitably
entertained by Sisters Howell and Whiton;
we had excellent meetings; many of the
brethren honored us with their presence,
and exhorted the sisters to cherish the in-
structions given, and appreciate the pres-
ence of Sister Snow by putting in practise
the counsel she gave.
	Thursday, 25th, we visited Hyrum;
found the sisters very busy making ready
for a good time temporally as well as spirit-
ually. Mrs. Liljenquist with the rest were
doing all they could to make our visit en-
joyable, and, as far as we were concerned,
they were certainly successful. Here we
were surprised with strawberries, fresh
from the vines of Sister Williams that morn-
ing; and Sister Snow was presented with a
pair of homemade slippers, of neat design,
by Sister C. Liljenquist in behalf of the
sisters of Hyrum. In the afternoon we
met with the Relief Society of that place,
and many sisters from Paradise, (where we
were unable to visit at that time,) were
present; Bishop McBride and his Counsel-
ors, with many other brethren also met
with us, and made many encouraging re-
marks. After meeting we dined with about
sixty of the Saints. In the evening we

[Column 2]
met with the young of both sexes, as well
as many of the older brethren and sisters,
and we truly had a spiritual feast, which
was enjoyed by all present.
	Friday morning, 26th, we went to Mill-
ville. After dining with Mrs. Pitkin, at-
tended a general meeting; Miss E. R. Snow,
by request, organized the Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association of Mill-
ville, and gave them advice and encour-
agement to go onward in the good work.
Bishop Pitkin said he knew our visit would
be a blessing to the sisters; that he felt
greatly blessed himself.
	After meeting we started for Providence,
and arrived about five o'clock; we were
kindly entertained at the residence of Mr.
and Mrs, Madison. We met with the sis-
ters in the evening; Miss Snow organized
a Mutual Improvement Association of the
Young Ladies of Providence; we had an
excellent meeting. After returning to
Elder Frank Madison's, we were the recipi-
ents of a serenade from the young ladies
and gentlemen of that settlement.
	Saturday morning, 27th, we arrived at
Logan, and dined with Mrs. Libbie Benson.
We met with the Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Association at 1 o'clock; af-
terwards with the Relief Society. The
meetings were excellent, and we realized
that in blessing we are blessed.
	After meeting we journeyed on to Smith-
field; we had rather a cold ride, which en-
abled us to appreciate the blessing of the
homelike firesides and kind hearts we met
there. In the morning we found that por-
tion of the earth clad in her beautiful robe
of white, so that we could exclaim! "The
snow, the snow, the beautiful snow!" Yet
we felt sad; here we were to part with our
beloved Sister Snow for a time, as her busi-
ness required her presence at home. We
met with the Saints Sunday morning, 28th,
at 9 o'clock. Miss Snow encouraged, coun-
seled and exhorted the sisters to live their
religion, and after blessing the people of
Smithfield, Bishop Roskelly accompanied
her to the depot and she was wafted away
from our sight. Mrs. Young and I both
felt sorrowful at parting with Sister Snow;
we regretted the absence of our more than
mother, and knew the sisters wherever we
visited would be disappointed at not seeing
her.
	Sunday afternoon at the request of Bish-
op Daynes and Mrs. Woolf, we visited Hyde
Park and met with the Saints there. We
had a good meeting; returned to Smith-
field, and met with the Mutual Improve-
ment Association, by the request of Bishop
Roskelly. We really felt that night that
God had been with us and blessed us in our
feeble efforts.
	Monday morning, 29th, we reached Rich-
mond, dined with Mrs. Abagail Pond; met
with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
Were entertained at the house of Brother
and Sister Traveller, and met with the
young ladies and gentlemen in the evening;
Mrs. Zina Young, by request, organized the
Young Ladies M. I. A.; forty-three mem-
bers were enrolled. We had good meet-
ings and the presence of several brethren.
	Tuesday, 30th, visited Franklin. Mrs.
Young organized the young ladies; we
were blessed with the presence of Bishop
Lorenzo Hatch and other brethren, who
blessed and encouraged us to do all we could
to promote the interests of the kingdom of
God.
	We next visited Weston; held meeting
there the same evening. Bishop Allen and
Counselors were present, and requested
Mrs. Young to organize the young ladies;
we had an excellent meeting, stayed with

[Column 3]
Mrs. E. Clark, and Wednesday, 31st, we
went to Malad, accompanied by Brother
Henry Gossman; we felt honored and
blessed by this venerable good brother.
	Thursday, Nov. 1st, we visited Samaria
and Malad Relief Societies, and organized
the young ladies of both places. We spent
two nights in Malad, one with Mrs. Good-
liffe and Mrs. Robins, and one with Mrs.
Daniels.
	Friday, 2d, we reached Portage and were
entertained by Bishop Hoskins and family;
truly we enjoyed our visit with them. Met
with the sisters, and organized the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association.
The Spirit of God was poured out abun-
dantly; the Bishop and brethren present
spoke very encouragingly to all.
	Saturday, 3d, we returned to Cache Co.,
escorted over the divide by Brother Gibbs.
The blessing of God was over us while
traveling through the cloud and storm.
We reached Clarkston that evening; had
an enjoyable meeting there. Sunday, 4th,
arrived at Logan; attended Conference,
and that evening we returned to Mendon,
stayed one night at Bishop Hughes, and
enjoyed the society of his family; visited
the sisters, and next morning started home
by train, and arrived safely, where we met
our friends awaiting us.
