COMING CONVENTION

	The women of this Territory will see by read-
ing the Deseret News and EXPONENT that
Congress is about to grant a hearing to the la-
dies on the Sixteenth Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States. The subject of
the amendment is to establish Universal Suf-
frage through all the States and Territories.
This is certainly an important matter. The
women of Utah should feel the greatest inter-
est in this vital subject. Woman Suffrage has
been granted here and the ladies have enjoyed
the privilege of the ballot for eight years, but
there is no certainty that it will be a perma-
nent thing; already there is a bill filed and
waiting to be acted upon, which would deprive
this people of political, social and religious
rights and privileges, and repeal Woman Suf-
frage here.
	This people have suffered sufficiently in
times past through being deprived of privi-
liges inherited by birth and right of citizenship
to make them generous towards others, and if
it is in the power of the women of Utah to aid
in any degree the women of this American Re-
public, we think it an imperative duty to do so;
and in this laudable undertaking they will re-
ceive the hearty co-operation of all good breth-
ren. Among the ladies of the Congressional
Committee is Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer
who spoke warmly against the ballot being ta-
ken from the women of Utah in the House of
Congress on a former occasion. The sisters
should not forget her kindness and courage; it
requires nobility of character and heroism to
face opposition and speak boldly in defense of
a principle that is not popular.
	There is no doubt evil-minded men are afraid
of the influence of women, and they have
every reason to be, for woman's almost uner-
ring intuition detects the lack of honor and in-
tegrity quickly.
	If any women on the face of the earth should
be able to defend their rights, it is the Mormon
women. What have they not sacrificed in
times past, for the sake of obtaining rights and
liberty of conscience? Thay have faced dan-
gers bravely, crossing the trackless desert, amid
savages and wild beasts, homeless and with
scant food and raiment, laying their loved ones
down in untimely graves in consequence of
tolls and sufferings beyond endurance. The
trials and hardships physical and mental en-
dured by these pioneer women can never be
told. But the prayers and supplications of
mothers, wives and daughters have reached
the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth and have been
answered in blessing upon their heads.
	If the country is ever redeemed from ruin,
government will need the efficient help of in-
telligent women. Give woman the ballot and

[Column 2]

she can aid most essentially the interests of
the nation. It will scarcely be possible for
Congress to refuse Woman Suffrage if dele-
gates appear from every State in the Union.
God is for woman, and there are some knotty
questions which now agitate the public mind
that women could help to unravel. The men
of this nation have not respected the rights of
women as they should, they have allowed
wicked and designing persons, to commit the
foulest wrongs to women, and let them go un-
punished. Men will be held accountable for
these things. What would induce women to
lift up their voices everywhere as they are now
doing, but the sense of wrong and injustice to
their sex, under which they are smarting.
When Suffrage is given to uncivilized or half
civilized men, women are more than ever im-
periled.
	May God give the victory to woman in the
coming issue to which so many noble women
are looking, is our prayer for the women of
America; but whether now, or at some future
time, woman's emancipation from thrall-
dom literally is sure to come. What a
glorious event for the coming New Year would
be the granting of the petition for Universal
Suffrage. How many thousand hosannas
would ring out from the multitudes of women
who have toiled so heroically in the cause,
were this bill to pass, so as to become a part of
the United States Constitution.


[Column 1]
