MY HEART AND I.

We’re sometimes sad, my heart and I,
(My heart and I are old-time friends,)
And oft when clouds obscure our sky,
Each unto each confidence lends;
And if by chance you happen near,
Some strange confessions you might hear.

My heart and I are special friends;
We know each other’s weakness, too;	
Yet for each other make amends
For any fault, as friends should do. 
My heart, (I know with best intent)
Has wrought me ills it never meant.

Yet I forgive my heart, for I
Ne’er found a friend that so loved me;
O’er all my faults it doth but sigh,
Where Reason would reproachful be;
Where even Hope would shake her head,
Viewing the future path with dread.

Yet no one, but my heart and I,
Know what endeavors we have made
To build our castles fair and high,	
On best foundations ever laid;
And no one, but my heart and I,
Know how complete a wreck they lie.

We don’t repine, my heart and I—
Failures but teach us how we fell;
And if the grapes were hung too high,
Some other fruit will do as well;
We thankful glean the golden wheat,
And sweet strawberries at our feet.
 
We once made note, my heart and I,	 
Perhaps with pardonable pride,
Of youth-time's charms that pleased the eye,
Where now their phantoms only glide,
And solace find; for we are told, 
In heaven we’ll never more grow old.

In reverie, my heart and I,
Missing the voice we turned to hear,
Have stood beneath the still night-sky,
Feeling the influence hov'ring near
So bless’d, that ling'ringly we turned
Homeward, where cheerful hearth-lights burned.

Oft have we felt, my heart and I, 
By lonely bed of pain and fear,
The blessed presence drawing nigh,
Bidding our drooping spirits cheer.
Behold what faith in God can give,
When e'en the dying turn and live. 

Not even thou, best friend, may’st share,
The silent vigils that we keep.
Even the darlings of my prayer, 
Loosen their clasping in their sleep. 	
None hear, while solemn hours go by,
The teachings to my heart and I.

Alone, while loved ones gather round,
We’ll fill life’s mission to the last.
Alone, when judgment all have found.
Waiting to hear our sentence passed;
Before the changeless Judge on high, 
We two shall stand—my heart and I.

Companion—pilgrims evermore,
Seeking eternal life to gain;
This sacred vow we make, therefore:
Faithful in duty to remain,
True to the Father throned on high,
And to ourselves—my heart and I.

