SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	Piazzi Smith, Astronomer Royal for Scot-
land, in his observations by earth-ther-
mometers, made at the Royal Observatory,
Edinburgh, has summed up the chief fea-
tures discernible for thirty-nine years; after
eliminating the more seasonal effects of or-
dinary summer and winter, like this:
	1. "Between 1837 and 1876 three great
heat-waves from without struck this part of
the earth, viz.: the first in 1840, the second
in 1858, and the third in 1868.
The next such visitation may be looked for
in 1879, within limits of half a year each
way. 
	2. The next feature in magnitude and
certainty is, that the periods of minimum
temperature, or cold, are not either in or
anywhere near the middle time between
the crests of those three chronologically
identified heat-waves, but are comparative-
ly close to them on either side, at a distance
of about a year, or a year and a half, so
that the next such cold wave is due at the
end of the present year." Mr. Smith, in
his letter, goes on to say, that as the out-
look from such observations are not agree-
able, he would be quite willing, for the
general good, to suppose himself mistaken,
&c. He thinks his conclusions will be es-
pecially unpleasant to political agitators,
who are moving amongst the colliers to per-
suade them to decrease the out-put of coal
at every pit's mouth.


INTERESTING ART RELICS.—On the road
from the Mount of Olives to Bethany the
remains of a Crusaders' church have re-
cently been discovered. In his official re-
port, which appears in the Athenæum,
Lieutenant Kitchener states that tradition
has long pointed out this spot as the place
where the Savior mounted his ass for his
triumphal entry into Jerusalem. In the
chapel, which dates from the twelfth or
thirteenth century, there is an almost square
block of masonry covered with paintings,
which are well executed, but badly disfig-
ured. On the south side is represented the
raising of Lazarus; on the north are the
disciples fetching the ass; on the west there
is a niche covered by an arch which was
probably supported by two small columns;
below the niche is a portion of an inscrip-
tion still remaining. This square block is
supposed to be either an altar, a shrine, or
a portion of the rock cut out and orna-
mented. The walls of the small chamber
to the south are also painted with a design
of squares containing circles, and the walls
of the church are painted in a common pat-
tern. The shield of Hamseh has been
taken down from the mosque by the pacha,
and is now in the Serail. It appears to
have been the cover to a baptismal font, or
of some vessel, and is made of bronze, con-
taining a great deal of silver. The work
appears to be Italian of the twelfth century,
and is very beautiful.


THE EASTERN war is still raging; Plevna
has fallen, yet the Turks made a brave de-
fense up to the last crisis. Osman Pasha,
it is said, annihilated two divisions of the
Russians. The terms upon which Russia
will make peace are causing a good deal of
excitement in England, and it is thought
probable that should Rusria insist in her
present policy, England will send a strong
fleet to Constantinople. No human power
can divine what will be the consequences
of this terrible war.


[Column 1]
