			BY MAY MAPLE.

	We are all well acquainted with that class
of individuals who are known as the "shab-
by-genteel,"—persons who to keep up ap-
pearances, constantly live beyond their
means, and because they are too "proud" to
bear the idea of being classed as poor. They
are only in moderate circumstances—some-
times even not that well-off—but does not
matter; they must give just as grand enter-
tainments as their rich neighbors, and con-
stantly ape and imitate the dress and car-
riage of persons far above them in wealth
and social position. It is humiliating to
note the hard work they will undergo, and
stint themselves privately, in order to make
a grand public display—feasting one night,
and then starving for the next month to
pay for such extravagance. They play the
host and look smiling and happy, but a dif-
ferent spirit pervades them, for they know
too well the price they must pay for their
silly indulgence. Short meals for a month
would seem a rather high price to pay for 
an evening's "amusement," but still they
keep on in their silly course, and gather
"friends" who are friends in name only, to
be wafted away from them at the first puff
of adversity. It is an easy matter to be
popular—high-priced dinner parties and
good wines will do that, but it is another
matter to gain friends who will be a help
in the hour of need. No one respects other
persons less for living as well, or dressing
as fine as they can afford, but when they
live beyond their means they bring con-
tempt upon themselves. One can command
the respect of sensible persons by wearing
old clothes gracefully when he (or she) can-
not afford new ones, and it is much more
honorable than running up a lengthy tailor
or milliner's hill to the infinite sorrow of
both buyer and seller—the first thinking how
money can be raised to pay it, and the lat-
ter growing more doubtful as the months
wear by, whether it will ever be paid.
	Poor persons who give receptions and
dress better than they can really afford,
are running a race that will surely lead to
ruin.


RUSSIAN PROVERBS.—When sovereignty
is divided it is very soon destroyed. Make
presents to your judges; you will gain all
you ask. To God glory; to the priest the
candle. When the patriarch is starved, he
steals like any other man. The trainer re-
mains sound while the horse dies. His
right arm is often a man's worst enemy.
Misfortune engenders misfortune, and you
escape the wolf only to be devoured by the
bear. Beware of a tamed wolf, a baptized
Jew, and a reconciled enemy. The robber
does not always steal, but it is as well to be
on the look-out for him. The rich man in
battle shields his face, but the poor man
takes care of his clothes. The old man re-
pents of that of which the young man
boasts. If you give a shirt to a beggar, he
will complain that the linen is too coarse.
Measure ten times and cut once. The
smallest needles are the sharpest prickers.
Do not eat cherries with your superiors—
they will blind you with the stones.


