			HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MERRY CHRISTMAS to our kind patrons.
May peace and good will abound in the habi-
tations of Zion. Salt Lake City is putting on
her holiday attire and making preparations to
celebrate joyfully, the coming Christmas. Z.
C. M. I., the Home Commission Store, and all
large business houses are displaying, artisti-
cally, their choicest goods, for the benefit of
Santa Claus.

	A MEETING of the Committee of Consulta-
tion in the interest of WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
was held in this office Tuesday Dec. 11, at 11
o'clock a. m., Miss E. R. Snow President of
the Committee acting chairman of the meet-
ing. Some general and special business was
transacted. Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff were added to the Committee. The
meeting adjourned until Tuesday Dec. 18, at
the same hour and place, when further busi-
ness will be transacted. Those of the Com-
mittee who did not attend the last meeting are
again invited.

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING: A meeting of
some of the prominent, leading ladies was held
Dec. 12, at 11 o'clock at this office; the wo-
men of this Territory having been solicited
by the National Suffrage Association at Wash-
ington to obtain signatures to the Sixteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Mrs. E. B. Wells was elected Chair-
man, and Mrs. E. Howard Secretary; Mrs. M.
I. Horne opened the meeting with prayer.
Such measures were taken at this meeting as
were deemed practicable by those present, for
canvassing the city to obtain signatures, and
at the suggestion of Miss E. R. Snow and oth-
ers a special meeting was appointed for the
ladies of Salt Lake County, when a practical
method will be decided upon, for canvassing
the entire Territory. Dismissed with prayer
by Mrs. Zina D. Young.

	A SPECIAL MEETING will be held at the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Satur-
day, Dec. 22d, 1877, for the purpose of organ-
izing a Presidency of Relief Society for Salt
Lake Co., and also to transact political busi-

[Column 2]
ness in the interest of Woman's Suffrage. All
the presidents and officers of Relief Socioties
in Salt Lake County are invited to be present.
Also all members of these societies and all la-
dies interested upon these subjects. This
meeting is called at the suggestion of
Miss Eliza R. Snow,	Mrs. Priscilla Staines.
Mrs. M. I. Horne,		  "	E. B. Wells.
"	Zina D. Young,	  "	B. W. Smith,
"	Phebe Woodruff,	  "	R. R. Grant,
"	Hannnh T. King,	  "	L. A. Wells,
"	Margaret Mitchell,  "	E. Howard.
	THE FOURTEENTH Ward Relief Society held
their Tenth Annual Meeting Wednesday, the
12th inst., in the Assembly Rooms. The yearly
report was a very satisfactory one, and plainly
proved the ability and business capacity of the
President, M. I. Horne, and her Counselors,
Secretary and assistants in office. Remarks
were made, suitable to the occasion, by several
of the sisters, also Elders George Crismon,
George Taylor, Supt. Sunday School, Bishop
Thomas Taylor, and Elder Edward Stevenson.
The meeting was a pleasant one; after its close
the sisters adjourned to the Relief Society Hall,
where a delicious repast was in waiting. Two
very long tables were set, and the guests were
soon seated and gracefully waited upon to all
the delicacies of the season by the young ladies
of the Ward. The party was a social one and
passed off pleasantly. President John Taylor
and Elders Wilford Woodruff and Franklin D.
Richards arrived at a late hour, and were
warmly greeted by the Ladies.
	THE YOUNG Ladies Association of the Thir-
teenth Ward had a pleasant meeting Thursday
afternoon, Dec. 13th at the residence of their
President Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas. At this
meeting Miss E. R. Snow proposed the name
of the Association should be changed from Re-
trenchment to Mutual Improvement, the mo-
tion was unanimously carried. Several breth-
ren were present by special invitation, among
whom were President John Taylor, Elders
Joseph F. Smith and D. H. Wells, Bishop L. D.
Young, Elder John Nicholson and William
Naylor; also Thomas Miller of New York who
has been visiting in this city for some time
past, but expects shortly to return home.
Many excellent ideas were advanced and much
wise counsel given to the young by those who
addressed them. Elder Joseph F. Smith in
his remarks dwelt specially upon the impor-
tance of the higher education and superior
knowledge women should attain, in order to fit
them for wives and mothers of the elders and
apostles of this church and kingdom. He
thought mothers should be prepared by all the
wisdom and knowledge possible to raise up a
righteous people upon the ea[-]th. The daugh-
ters of Zion should be trained in knowledge of
the principles of the Gospel and should know
for themselves of its truth; alluded to Woman's
voice in the Church, and the privileges she
had of voting etc. which were equal to the
brethren in st[-]ength and power and influence.
He referred briefly but emphatically to the cov-
enant of marriage as believed in by the Latter-
day Saints, and said that marriage was an es-
sential, a vital principle of the Gospel. After
meeting the guests were ushered into the din-
ing-room where a delicious repast was in wait-
ing; some of the yonng girls waited upon the
guests in a quiet, orderly and charming man-
ner, while in the adjoining room, others were
singing accompanied by the organ, which add-
ed still another pleasure to the social enter-
tainment.
	MR. JAMES Dwyer on the evening of Dec.
10, opened his new supply of books, pictures,
toys, stationery and fancy articles. Mr. Dwyer


[Column 1]

is prepared not only to retail books etc. in Salt
Lake City and adjacent towns, but to supply
country places, with articles in his line of
goods. He has suitable books on hand to fit up
choice and elegant libraries, for private fami-
lies and also public libraries for schools, Sun-
day Schools, Young Men's and Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Associations, having sup-
plied his establishment with all the best Stand-
ard Histories, the Lives of celebrated men and
women,and all the works of the greatest poets,
male and female, of England and America.
These books are of various qualities of binding
etc. varying in price accordingly. Christmas box-
es made up cheap at Mr. James Dwyer's; work-
boxes, writing-desks, Russian leather porte-
monies, pocket-books, and many other things
suitable for Christmas gifts, can be bought
there at reasonable prices. Santa Claus should
not fail to look in at Mr. Dwyer's as he can
find loads of beautiful and useful things to dis-
tribute on his round this coming Christmas.
	Mr. Dwyer is Special Agent for Heliotype
Engravings, published by James R. Osgood
& Co., of Boston. These engravings are choice
reproductions of the most attractive European
works of art, and are fast gaining unparalleled
popularity. The Heliotype is the only method
known of obtaining for one dollar, pictures
that would otherwise cost ten dollars each.
Tasteful and inexpensive frames will be fur-
nished if desired. These pictures are copied
from paintings by the best artists. There is a
very great variety of them, suited to the tastes
of different persons. Will Santa Claus please
call at Mr. Dwyer's.
	THE WOMEN of Utah have been solicited to
aid the National Suffrsge Convention at Wash-
ington, in preparing for the Sixteenth Amend-
ment. Conventions to be held at Lincoln Hall,
9th and D. Sts.Washington, D. C., January 8th
and 9th 1878, which will be the Tenth Annual
Washington Convention. We give below the
Circular sent to us.
	All Woman Suffrage Associations and all
friends of woman suffrage throughout the
country who believe that it is the duty of Con-
gress to submit a Sixteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution prohibiting the several
states from disfranchising United States citi-
zens on account of sex, are cordially invited to
send delegates and letters to this Convention.
	To secure the passage of this Amendment by
the Forty-fifth Congress, making allowances
for all the contingencies, we need to be sure of
fifty votes in the Senate, and two hundred
votes in the House of Representatives. It is
therefore of vital importance that delegates
should be present at this Convention from
every State and Territory, and that each one
should call upon her entire state delegation in
Congress and urge them to attend the Conven-
tion and hear the discussion of the greatest po-
litical question of the age.
	There are members in both Houses of Con-
gress who assert that no woman has ever per-
sonally appealed to them on this subject. Yet
these are the men who hold our whole question
in the hollow of their hands.
	That there may be time for these personal
appeals, the Washington Resident Congres-
sional Committee have made arrangements to
entertain all delegates for one week. Delegates
are requested, upon their arrival, to call and
register their names at Riggs' House, 15th and
G Streets, where they will be met by members
of the local Committee and assigned to com-
fortable quarters.
	All delegates are requested to meet at the
Ladies' Reception Room of the Senate at 10.30
A. M., Monday, Jan. 7th, 1878.

[Column 2]

	The Committee on Privileges and Elections
have unanimously voted to grant hearings to
delegates from every section of the country,
upon Sixteenth Amendment Petitions, begin-
ning January 9, at 10.30 A. M. A favorable
report from this Committee will have immense
weight with both Houses of Congress and all
the State Legislatures. Delegates will also be
heard from Judiciary Committee of House of
Representatives.
	The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs has
just reported favorably a bill to enfranchise the
Indians, who have always made of their wo-
men beasts of burden. This is an additional
peril to the women citizens of the United
States. The Mexicans, Half-breeds and igno-
rant, vicious men voted solid against Woman
Suffrage in Colorado, while everywhere in the
United States the dram-seller, the drunkard,
the profligate help to make the laws which
control the property, the wages, the persons,
and the children of the intelligent women of
this Republic.
	The Forty-Fourth Congress spent month
after month investigating frauds in remote
states, protecting the rights of men who did
not know how to read the ballots they cast,
while all the wives and mothers, sisters and
daughters in the land are forbidden to vote
for the party of their choice, or to exercise
their right of self-governmeet at the ballot
box.
	Then let the free-born women citizens of
this boasted Republic, defrauded of every right
man claims for himself, once more assemble
under the shadow of the National Capitol, and
demand in the sacred name of Liberty, an
Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States protecting the rights of women citizens.


