			LETTER IV.

	What say the voices from out the long years?
	Bring they sweet promise to cheer our lone way—
	Inspiring to action, and banishing fears,
	Whispering courage and strength for to-day?

	Does not passing through deep sorrow
and walking in thorny paths prepare one to
enjoy a fuller and more complete happiness
when the dark hour is over, when the path
which was rough has been trodden down
by patience, perseverance and constant toil,
and become smooth and easy to walk in?
Are we not each of us pioneers in the great
journey of life? Is it not meet that we
should be brave and courageous for our-
selves, and not lean upon those who, like
ourselves, must carve their own way
through every obstruction? Some women
find brave, valiant fellow-pilgrims, who say
in the generosity of their hearts, Lean up-
on me. Sometimes it succeeds admirably;
and the woman petted, cherished and be-
loved glides along, always trusting, confid-
ing, leaning, and is carried through the
world without any individual experience,
any practical culture of the noblest attri-
butes of life. What are they prepared for
when they enter upon another stage of ex-
istence? Is this the wisest and best course
to pursue? All of us who have passed
through a long experience know how un-
certain it is to depend wholly upon another,
because the instances are only rare excep-
tions in which it succeeds. The masses
make it an utter failure, as the history of
the world, as well as of individual acquaint-
ances, plainly proves. This is a question
all of us who are rearing daughters, and all
who are interested in the great problem of
life-work, should gravely consider. Boys
are expected to act for themselves, to know
for themselves; to fulfill practical life-duties
and responsibilities, and are born into the
world imbued with these independent ideas.
But men tell us (and women, too) that it
is not necessary girls should be educated
ONLY to become good wives and mothers;
In the name of common sense we would
ask, What is their idea of goodness? To
keep house economically, to have beautiful,
well-developed, healthy, bright, active, in-
telligent children (mostly sons), to wear a
smiling face under all circumstances, in
fact, to be obedient in all things to their
lord and master. When all this and ten
thousand more things are understood by
the term good wives and mothers, then the
question naturally arises, Will not the task
be a hard one to those who make no prepa-
ration except to smile and look pretty?
Ought women not to be philosophers, to ful-
fill all the responsibilities of wives and
mothers? Recently we heard a gentleman
remark, women were not philosophers, that
they never arrived at conclusions by rea-
soning, but admitted they were quick at
intuition, intimating at the same time that
it answered well enough for them; seem-
ingly he thought it made very little differ-
ence whether they were ever really sure
and positive upon any point, as that was
always left for some man to decide for
them.

[Column 2]
	My idea is if women are not philosophers
they ought to be; and further, that they
should not only make an effort to be capa-
ble of judging for themselves, and carrying
their own individual burdens, without im-
posing upon others, but that they should
be so earnest and practical as to accomplish
something real for themselves. We talk a
great deal about sympathy; and true, genu-
ine sympathy is an excellent recipe for
many things, but indulgence is not sympa-
thy, and if one is fostered in indolence it
weakens and detracts from the solid quali-
ties which ennoble character.
	Woman loses her charm for man as soon
as she becomes strong-minded and wants to
know for herself—so says Madame Grundy.
Then I suppose it remains for woman her-
self to arrive at some practical method of
discipline into principles of true independ-
ence of character. This can be done when
women care more for the real life-mission
of mankind and less for the estimation in
which they are held by men.
	This letter is unsatisfactory, having
opened up a subject on which so much
should be said to make it clea[-] to the read-
er, but will our kind patrons excuse this
preface, and the following letters may elu-
cidate more fully the object we have in
writing.					AUNT EM.


