[CONTINUED.]

	One of the nicest things in the world is to let
an enemy alone entirely, and it mortifies him
to death. If your neighbors talk about you
and you think they do wrong in speaking evil
of you, do not let them know that you ever
heard a word, and conduct yourselves as if
they always did right, and it will mortify them,
and they will say, "We'll not try this game
any longer." I have seen men, and women
also, that are never happy until they are miser-
able, and never easy until they are in pain.
	These are little things; but is not the world
made up of little things? The whole earth is
composed of these small atoms of sand. Our
lives are made up of little simple circumstan-
ces that amount to a great deal when they are
brought together, and sum up the whole life of
the man or woman; and yet in our passing from
one to another our little acts and incidents
seem to be very minute or simple, but we find
that they amount to a great deal.
	Now, sisters, will you learn these things. I
want to see the children of this people grow as
they should; I want to go a little farther with
regard to our children. Commence, mothers,
just as quick as the child is old enough to un-
derstand, which is quite young. They observe
the acts and doings of the mother and whoever
is present. From these acts they imbibe their

[Column 2]

first impressions. Now, mothers, do you want
your children to be saints, when they are grown
up? Do you want your sons and daughters to
be good and great, and their lives filled up with
usefulness? "Certainly, with all my heart."
Then lay that foundation for their future life
by teaching each little child what it should do.
Teach that child honesty, uprightness and
truthfulness. Never permit a falsehood to be
told, nor the color of a falsehood without cor-
rection. Train that child by your own acts
and words, from its infancy, so it may imbibe
the principle in its own heart to be perfectly
honest. Teach that child to believe in God our
Heavenly Father. Teach it to believe, to have
confidence in Him.
	"Why, he is the author of your lives. Here
are your father and mother with regard to your
natural body." As soon as they can under-
stand anything at all, teach them.
	"Yes, my little child, but you have a spirit
within you. Were it not for this spirit you
would not have life in you. Here are the fath-
er and mother of your tabernacle; but you have
a spirit in you, and the father of that spirit is
our Heavenly Father, whom we serve as our
God. You must have implicit confidence in
this Being. You must depend upon Him al-
ways. If you are in danger, in the least, you
must believe in God, and ask Him to rescue
you, to preserve you; and your faith must be
in the name of Him that He has given, whom
He calls His only begotten son, to die a ransom
for our sins." And as soon as they can under-
stand, teach them with regard to the original
sin. Teach them to have implicit confidence
in the Father through the Lord Jesus Christ;
and every time they need wisdom to ask for
wisdom, and ask for understanding; and every
time they are in trouble, ask our Heavenly
Father to give them comfort, and they will
feel joyous instead of grievous, and will feel a
buoyant feeling instead of cast down. Teach
the children to pray, that when they are large
enough to go into the field with their father,
they may have the faith that if they are in
danger they will be protected. Teach them
that those good angels that are ministering
spirits, are their angels, to guard and protect
the just and pure, watch over them continu-
ally. And teach them—I am sorry to say that
there are not many mothers who do teach it—
that they may grow up with this understand-
ing that our Heavenly Father takes cogniz-
ance of all our acts and doings, and of us as in-
dividuals, and that His eye is over us, and 
there is not so much as a hair of our heads falls
to the ground without the notice of our Heav-
enly Father. Teach them these things and
they will grow up into this habit. You may
call it tradition, but it is an excellent one.
You can sow the seeds of infidelity and they
will grow there. Teach the children so that
when they go out of the presence of their fath-
er and mother, God is in all their thoughts.
Can you come to this understanding, mothers?


THE only woman's paper published in
America in the German language, is the
"Fortschritt" (the German for progress),
published weekly in New York City by
Anna Metz Ryland.


MRS. Elizabeth Oakes Smith, whose writ-
ings have been widely circulated for many
years, and who has distinguished herself as
an author in prose and poetry of real merit,
has charge, at present, as pastor, of an In-
dependent Church, at Canastota, N. Y.


