	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., Nov. 7th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We here send you a few items with re-
gard to our welfare, and our integrity in all
the principles of the great and glorious Lat-
ter-day work in which we are engaged. We
realize that the women of Utah have an
important missson to perform. Our various
home duties keep us fully employed, the
sisters here do their own house-work with
the aid of their daughters, also the family
sewing, thereby saving a great outlay for
our husbands; but still we do not neglect
our meetings, which as a general thing are
well attended and all feel anxious to per-
form the labor assigned them. We are so
far from head quarters that we have not had
the privilege of many visits from our lead-
ing sisters, therefore can scarcely keep pace
with the Northern Societies; but the past
summer we have had several good visits
from sisters passing to and from St. George;
their instructions will be a great benefit to
us in conducting our business affairs in the
future
	The young ladies were organized a year
ago, they manifest a good spirit and are anx-
ious to progress; they are a set of good girls,
and only need some one to lead out in dif-
ferent branches of home industry, and so
direct their energies that they may become
useful members of the community.
	May you, dear sister, be blessed and pros-
pered in your undertaking of spreading
light and truth, is the prayer of the women
of Cedar.
			MARY A. LUNT, Cor. Sec'y.

	NEPHI, Dec. 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a few items in regard to the
welfare of the sisters here. We have not
sent any word in reference to storing grain,
because we had so little at the time the call
was made to report; since that time we
have gathered considerable more; we have
no place of our own at present to put our
wheat, but expect to have in a short time;
until then, one of our good brethren kindly
gives us room in his granary. There was
some wheat gleaned here after harvest hut
not as much as in many other places; still
the faithful few are trying to do all they can
to lay up grain and attend to every known
duty.
	We think there is a very visible spirit of
improvement in our settlement; all who
have a desire to see Zion prosper seem to
be willing to do all they can to help along
the good cause. When Apostles Woodruff
and Snow returned from Sanpete they met
with us in the Relief Society Hall; we had
a most excellent discourse from Elder
Woodruff. It was full of interest, instruc-
tion, comfort and consolation to the sisters.
He touched on many subjects, dwelt at some
length on the storing of grain for Zion, silk-
culture, home-manufacture, and with great
earnestness on the subject of training child-
ren and preparing them to be able with the
assistance of the spirit of God, to bear off
this kingdom triumphantly.
	Elder Lorenzo Snow bore testimony to the
truth of what Elder Woodruff had said,
made a few remarks on home manufacture,
showed, the necessity of our becoming self-
sustaining, and not dependant on Babylon
for anything. The teachings we received
from them were a most excellent treat,
which I think will long be remembered
and I hope prove a great blessing do us;
many seem more determined to live their


religion, and I think are striving to do all
they can to fill their missions honorably
here on the earth. Our Relief Society is
increasing in attendance at our meetings,
and there seems to be a desire among the
sisters to be more faithful. President George
Teasdel, Elders Grover, J. G. Bigler and
others frequently visit our meetings and
speak words of encouragement and comfort
to us. Our worthy President, Mrs. Amelia
Goldsborough joins with me in kind love and
many good wishes for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT.
	Ever praying that God will bless His peo-
ple and preserve us in the truth, I remain as
ever, 		A. L. BIGLER, Secretary.
	EAST PORTERVILLE, Nov. 26, 1877,
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The Relief Society of this place is yet
alive, and trying to keep pace with the
times, and follow the good advice which is
given to us. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, with an average attendance of
thirty-five members. We are desirous to
carry out the counsel of President Young,
in regard to storing grain. The sisters
have donated liberally here, according to
their means, and our wheat is well stored
and in a good condition.
	Yours, with respect,
		MRS. ANGELINE PORTER, Pres't.
