			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Nov. 10, was a most interesting
one. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing, and also the minutes of the young
ladies from the several wards were fnll of
instruction and wisdom. President M. I.
Horne expressed herself pleased with the
minutes, and remarked that in looking over
the congregation assembled, she could not
help thinking the sisters present were
among the valiant ones that were reserved
to come forth in the last days. She spoke
of the duties of the saints and the bless-
ings they enjoyed.
	Counselor E. R. Snow spoke of her re-
cent visit to the sisters in the northern set-
tlements, the many meetings she had at-
tended, the good feeling and spirit that
existed among the sisters in the country,
and the energy and zeal manifested in good
works. She dwelt with great earnestness
upon the necessity of sustaining home-in-
dustries practically, and the duties of moth-
ers in teaching their children correct prin-
ciples. Counselor E. Howard made some
very good remarks upon the preservation of 
health, and training children in the ways of
righteousness. Several other sisters made
appropriate remarks.
	The General Retrenchment Meeting,
Nov. 24, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Af-
ter the usual exercises and reading of min-
utes, Pres. Horne, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. Nau-
cy Clark of Farmington, Mrs. M. J. Thomp-
son, Counselor P. Woodruff, Mrs. Sarah Groo
Mrs. Martha Young and Counselor B. W.
Smith each addressed the meeting, mak-
ing many wise suggestions on subjects of
general interest, and encouraging each other
in good works. Counselor E. R. Snow said 
she had been edified by the remarks of the
sisters, and bore testimony to the truths
spoken by them.
	General Retrenchment Meeting, Dec. 8,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. The minutes
of the Junior Societies were rich in senti-
ment, and furnished a wide field for thought.
President M. I. Horne, Counselors Zina D.
Young and E. R. Snow each addressed the
sisters; Mrs. Young, in her remarks, dwelt
upon the form of prayer, and the manner
of praying in a public capacity: she said a
person offering a prayer in any public place
should, in expressing themselves, always
say we in addressing the Deity, as they
were beseeching in behalf of all there as-
sembled; many persons used the pronoun
I,. which was very improper. Another
item was that of partaking the Sacrament
with a glove upon the hand; she had some-
times seen sisters partake of it with the
left hand; this was also out of order. There
is a certain order in all things which per-
tain to the priesthood, and counseled the
sisters to be faithful to observe all these
things. Miss Snow then expressed herself
in regard to prayer, and the effect of re-
sponding with Amen by the congregation.
Quite a large number of sisters bore strong
testimonies, and much good instruction was
given. The Lord blesses the sisters in these
meetings with great faith, and the Holy
Spirit rests abundantly upon all who have
hearts ready to receive the truth.

