			PROVIDENCE, Oct. 26, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some minutes of a Special Meeting of the
Providence Relief Society. After singing
and prayer, the President Margaret Math-
ews arose and said she was glad to meet the
sisters upon such an occasion, and was
thankful of having the privilege of meet-

[Column 2]
ing with the sisters from the City. She
asked God to let His holy spirit rest on each
and every one so that the instruction they
would receive would benefit them both now
and in after years. Mrs. Zina D. Young
spoke of the necessity of storing grain, and
and being self-sustaining, and of the use-
fulness of the silk worm and the mulberry
tree; also counseled mothers of the daughters
of Zion, to teach their daughters to encour-
age home productions and to make their
own hats, bonnets, and every article of
clothing they needed, and to live humble
and righteous before their Maker. She gave
much good instruction to the young people.
Mrs. E. Davis said it had been two years
since she had visited the sisters here, and
she felt happy and highly honored to meet
with them on such an occasion. She said
it was one consolation, that the outside
world gave us credit for our work, if they
did not for our religion, said they could not
see as we see. She asked how many num-
bers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT the sisters
took at this place—only so few; there ought
to be more. Advised the sisters to buy the
church books and read them, and not fill
their minds with low reading and nonsense.
She requested the brethren and sisters and
clerks of our stores to come and buy their
winter goods at the Woman's Commission
Store, and not from Babylon. Miss Eliza R.
Snow, after some appropriate opening re-
marks, asked if we were really saints or
merely professed to be saints. She said it
would be well to think and reflect about it.
She instructed the young ladies not to use
slang phrases or corrupt their minds with
bad words, and that it would be well for the
young ladies to discuss it in their meetings
and to set a good example before the young-
er sisters, and to patronize home-produc-
tions, and sustain those who were placed
over them, and not to indulge in back-bit-
ing, but to be kind and friendly, and always
speak kindly to one another. She urged
the young ladies to be industrious and to
get mulberry trees and plant them out, pro-
cure silk worms and raise silk so that they
might make their own silk stockings and
neck-ties, dresses, capes, handkerchiefs and
everything that can be made from silk, and
not to buy them of the outside world. She
said the organization of the Relief Society
was a revelation from God through Joseph
Smith the prophet, and the Young Ladies
Associations was a revelation from God to
President Brigham Young. She gave much
good instruction to the young men and wo-
men. She said it was no common thing in
the days of Kirtland and Navuoo for little
children to hold meetings, and to preach,
pray, sing and enjoy the gifts of the Gospel.
She inquired of the young ladies if they
wished to be organized into a Mutual Im-
provement Society. They answered yes.
Miss Parthenia Blair was chosen President
of the Association of Providence, Joan John-
son, Sophia Poulson, Sarah Hammond, Al-
zina Brown, Lucinda Fulmer and Alice
Rice her counselors; Anne Mathews Secre-
tary; Elizabeth Frederick Assistant Secre-
tary; Elizabeth Blair, Treasurer. Miss Snow
gave some most valuable instruction to
these young sisters who were appointed to
hold positions of honor and trust in the As-
sociation. President M. Mathews express-
ed her thanks to the sisters for their kind-
ness and for the good instruction received
from them. The meeting was dismissed by
Elder George W. Mailen.

