LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week Int September. Note. – We are presenting the first lesson in our new course in Surname History. We have met many delays in getting out our book but hope to have it ready later. We suggest that class leaders consult any good general history for this and the succeeding lessons. THE HISTORICAL FATHERLAND AND MIGRATIONS OF OUR ANCESTRY. The student of genealogy is interested in all the peoples of the world. But his interest centers first in his own ancestors. The heart of genealogical work to him consists of linking himself up with his progenitors. Since the Latter-day Saints have a great mission in this work, the question naturally arises, Who are in the main the historical ancestors of the "Mormon" people? Where was their fatherland when they first became a people of history? When the apostles of our Savior in the meridian of times were preaching the gospel among the Jews and other people of the Roman empire, a Roman, of commanding genius, by the name of Tacitus, made a visit among an interesting barbarian people east of the Rhine and north of the Danube. He describes them as of "giant size, fierce blue eyes and blond or ruddy hair," he tells of "their love of warfare, the fury of their onset in battle, the contempt which they had for wounds and for death itself. When not fighting, they passed much of their time in the chase. and still more time in idleness, giving themselves up to sleep and gluttonous feasts. They were deep drinkers, too. and so passionately fond of gambling that, when a man's wealth was gone, he would even 'stake his liberty on a single game.' In some respects we see similar traits in our American Indians. "On the other hand, they had certain attractive qualities not always found even among civilized peoples.. They were hospitable to the stranger, they respected their sworn word, they loved liberty and hated restraint. Above all they had a pure family life. No one of them laughs at vice, nor is it the fashion to corrupt and be corrupted. Good habits are here more effectual than good laws elsewhere." The religion of these people was a kind of polytheism. Wooden, which -till lives in our name Wednesday, Wednesday, wife their chief god, the war god, Thor (Thursday) god of thunder storms and air. Freya i Friday i was the deity of joy and fruitfulness. Concerning their government Tacitus says, "In the election of their kings they have regard to birth; in that of generals to valor. Their kings have not an ahsolute or unlimited power; and their generals command less through the force of authority than of example. If they are daring, adventurous, and conspicuous in action, they procure obedience from the admiration they inspire." Germani I'll., Tacitus. "On affairs of smaller moment, the chiefs consult; on those of greater importance, the whole community, vet with this circumstance, that what is referred to the decision of the people is first discussed by the chiefs. They assemble, unless upon some sudden emergency, on stated days, either at the new or the full moon. When they all think, they sit down armed. Silence proclaimed by the priests, who have on this occasion coercive power. Then the king, or chief, and such others as are conspicuous for age, birth, military renown, or eloquence, are heard, and gain attention rather from their ability to persuade, than their authority to command. If a proposal displease, the assembly reject it by an inarticulate murmur; if it prove agreeable. they clash their javelins; for the most honorable expression of absent among them is the sound of arms.'" – Germania XI, XII. While Julius Caesar wives a brief account of these people in the latter half of the first century B. C. the above extract characterizes the ancestors of whom the "Mormon" people generally are descendants when historians first write about them. These people were called Germans Wehr Mann, meaning war men according to some scholars), or Teutons by the Romans. Their fatherland was bounded in the west by the Rhine and the western shores of Norway, on the south by the Danube, and on the north by the Arctic regions of Norway and Sweden, the Baltic Sea and on the east by the Vistula. Their eastern neighbors were the Slavs now of Russia and other kindred Slavic peoples, and. of course, on the south and west the Romans. Julius Caesars proconsul ship of ten years in Gaul (now France), brought him in conflict at different times with the Germans for he wanted to make the Elbe the eastern boundary. Rut he was unsuccessful in conquering them as he had the Gauls. By 400 A. D.. "the Sunny South (or territory of the Roman Empire) with the wonders and riches of its strange civilization, fascinated these savages with a potent spell. For five hundred years they had been striving to enter in and possess it. The pressure of fiercer barbarians behind them and of their own increasing population had produced certain periods of special effort, and sometimes they had burst in for brief periods of plunder. Always hitherto they had been driven out again by some Marius, Caesar, Aurelian, Diocletian, or Julian. About the year 400, in the exhaustion of the Empire, they began at last to come in to stay." The migrations and expansion over the earth of these Teutonic peoples, is one of the most interesting of its kind in the world's history. Beginning in the latter part of the fourth century the Visigoths located in southern Gaul and Spain, the Vandals in northern Africa, the Ostrogoths and Lombards in Italy, the Burgundians in southeastern France, the west Franks in northern France, the Friscians in Holland and Belgium, the Jutes, Angles and Saxons in Britain. West Franks, Saxons and other tribes later expanded their territory eastward till they established themselves in the northeastern territory of Prussia and southeastern Austria first as Mark states against the heathen Slavonic peoples. In the tenth and eleventh centuries the Norsemen (Scandinavians) began their migrations going into England, France, Southern Italy, Russia, Iceland and Greenland, and even discovering America in 1,000 A. D. Hence we are as in Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the great image, the Teutonic peoples like the miry clay mingling with the iron ( Roman government ) in the feet of the image. Out of the intermingling have sprung up the modern nations of Europe. Some of them, Italy. Spam, and France, being dominated more by the influence of the Roman government than England and the other northern European peoples. But the Teutons have given shape to the course of events as we shall see more definitely in the next lesson. Furthermore, when the discovery of America took place they were the principle immigrants to that land. Until 1890 eightyfive per cent of the immigrant population to the United States was of the northern Teutonic stock and likewise, in Canada. South Africa and Australia have also been colonized by these Teutons. The Anglo-Saxons of England, of course, has sent out most of the colonies to these countries in the great European expansion, and we must not forget that in South America is also some Teutonic blood. With this view we can say with George Burton Adams, "the settlement of the Teutonic tribes was not merely the introduction of a new set of ideas and institutions, it was also the introduction of fresh blood and youthful mind – the muscle and brain which in the future were to do the larger share of the world's work. "In our next lesson we shall consider who the Teutons are. QUESTIONS. Who were the Teutons? What were their characteristics? Relate some of their customs. Who were the Scandinavians? What do von know of the Ansdo-Saxons?