[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | November | Issue: 5 | Title: A Trip to England | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		A TRIP TO ENGLAND.
	Desirous of obtaining genealogy, and
needing a vacation, as we were somewhat
run down in health, my husband and I
came to the conclusion that we would
take a trip to the old country, conse-
quently we left Bingham Co., Idaho, in
May, for Salt Lake City, visiting also
Taylorsville and Provo, on the way, to
have a look at old friends. Afterwards we
boarded a Pullman car from Salt Lake on
the 27th of the month. It was very pleas-
sant traveling, as we could lie down at
night at our ease, and scarcely knew that
we were traveling. Next day was Sun-
day, and at ten a. m. we were seven hun-
dred miles from Ogden. No wonder they
call this train a flyer the way it sped
along, the pouring rain being no obstacle.
At 5:15 p. m. we were in Iowa, and at
daylight next morning in the State of
Illinois. Just as we got through break-
fast we learned that we were in Chicago.
We checked our luggage for Boston, and
very soon were in the State of Indiana,
then in Ohio, and soon we were passing
lots of oil wells and timberland.
	May 30, we changed cars at Buffalo en-
joyed some beautiful scenery; before the
day passed, we became acquainted with
two ladies who were going to Europe.
After passing Mohawk river, we were not
far from Boston.
	Arriving at Boston on the same day,
near dark, we found that one of these
ladies was going to Liverpool, and in-
tended getting in the same boat with us.
This fact seemed to please both parties.
This lady, I believe, said she was a pro-
fessional nurse, had worked in some of
the best families in Salt Lake City, was
acquainted with quite a number of our
people, said she could not have been bet-
ter treated than she had been by the
Latter-day Saints.

[Column 2]
	While at the hotel in Boston. we be-
came acquainted with three Elders. One
was Brother Smith, from Cottonwood,
the other was Brother Moench, from
Ogden, and the other was Brother Ken-
intson. We were introduced to a Sister
Neilson, from Ammon, Idaho, not far
from our home, but up to this time unac-
quainted she was going in the same
steamer, on her way to Denmark to join
her husband, who was there filling a mis-
sion.
	We got on board the vessel, “The Re-
public,” just before meal time. We were
told to select our seat, all of them being
numbered, and to keep the same seats
while on the voyage. So we “Mormons,”
as the term goes, sat together enjoying
ourselves with others who asked to be in
our party on board. Different counten-
ances bespoke of a variety of thought and
feelings, some looked sorrowful, having
just parted with their loved ones, while
others, their countenances beamed with
delight at the thoughts of the vacation
and rest they were about to realize; oth-
ers appeared fearful of getting seasick; as
I was always under the impression that
there are more passengers sick on the first
day than any other time, or later on I
asked the stewardess if it were so. She
answered in the negative; said when the
ship was right out in the ocean we feel
the motion of the vessel more, conse-
quently there were more sick about the
fourth day. Then some have their appe-
tites sharpened by the sea breeze and do
not restrain, therefore they get a little
bilious about that time.
	On the morning of the second day we
felt a little unsteady on first getting up,
but decided to eat nothing but a lemon,
and hurry on deck to get all the fresh air
obtainable, which was plenty. We even
forgot that there was anything like sea-
sickness. However, most of the passen-
gers were enjoying themselves. and soon
passing the time reading, conversing and
writing, also promenading the vessel and
some singing as they walked the deck.
	Some of our Elders commenced lend-
ing literature. Two ladies were very
much interested in the Articles of Faith,
said there was some grand reading in
those books.
	After a few days, when it became gen-
erally known that there were “Mormons”
on board, one man who was getting quite
popular called out, “Who wants to go to
Utah to join the ‘Mormons?’” When
he found, however, that this attempt at,
ridicule was not appreciated, he did not
seem to care to try it again. One of the
Scotch ladies before mentioned said to
this man. “Well, if these young men are
‘Mormons,’ their behavior is excellent. I
have been watching; they do not sit up in
the long hours of the night singing hideous
songs, under the influence of liquor, as
some are doing. If my berth were near
the dining rooms I should certainly com-
plain of some of them.”
	The fifth day out, all having recovered
and appearing well, some of the most
energetic on board, began to look around


[Column 1]
for musical and other talent for the pur-
pose of getting up a concert on the night
of the 6th, which proved quite a success,
realizing quite a sum, which went to the
fund for assisting sailors’ widows aud
orphan chileren.
	On the morning of the ninth day very
early, before daylight, a great many were
bustling about; some were rearranging
their luggage, as they were to land at
Queenstown. All were early on deck to
look at the land scenery, which was
grand. Next day all were up again extra
early. This was the tenth day, and we
were near our destination. Ten o’clock
a. m. we landed at Liverpool, and then
we realized how far we were from
home. While at the depot we were met
by two Elders, Elders Thomas and Fair-
banks, who kindly helped us with our
luggage. These two brothers were filling
a mission in Liverpool. They guided us
to a hotel called Thomas’ hotel, man-
aged by a Mrs. Hiles, a very lady-like
woman with whom I conversed a number
of times on the principles that brought us
so far from home.
	Well, we are in Liverpool now, and
this is Sunday, so away we go to hunt up
No. 10, Holly Road, to meet with a little
band of Saints who are the salt of the
earth, differing from the masses all around
them; and very likely most much mis-
understood. After the afternoon meeting
an Elder took us to a lovely park close
by, where the green grass, the flowers and
the variety of ferns reminded me of the
place of my childhood, the little Guernsey
Island. At the next meeting we were in-
troduced to Sister Price and Brother and
Sister Hughes and others.
	Leaving Liverpool next morning we
took the train to Cardiff, Wales, and
then to Llantrissant, ten miles from Car-
diff, and stopping there one day and night
we received the inspiration that we were
close to the Miskin manor and Miskin vil-
lage; this we were anxious to see, as the
Miskin family are naturally proud of this
ancient place, which is very picturesque,
situated so that it commands a lovely
view of the surrounding country. Just as
we entered the gate we met a son of the
present owner and occupant, Judge Gwil-
ym Williams, this son of his honor the
judge, politely showed us through the
house and grounds and exhibited many
curiosities, rare shrubs and trees, some of
which had been transplanted from India,
also some of the heads and horns of ani-
mals he had killed while hunting in In-
dia; he then allowed us to walk around
the gardens, and pointed out a bathing
place where the Romans used to bathe.
	After  partaking of lunch with part of
the family, the lady, who was the mother
of this young man, and evidently a church
worker, interested us in her work and
told us how much had been realized by a
church fair. I wish I remembered the
amount, but it was hundreds of pounds
they had received from a church fair that
had been held on these grounds. The
funds were to be used for erecting a
church in the near future, to be built near
by on land donated by her or the family.
This lady’s son expressed the wish and
anticipation of going to the Rocky Moun-
tain region, and we hope, when he does,
he will meet with the same courtesy and
frendliness that he showed us, and I do
not doubt for a moment but that he will.
	After this delightful time we were

[Column 2]
driven to the station and had only a few
moments to wait for the train going to
Weymouth, where we again took boat
for my native island of Guernsey, which
I had left in 1840, for Newark, New Jer-
sey, where I lived two years before I was
married, and I might add here, that at
that time the restored and complete gos-
pel was unknown to either of us.
	Now on the little Guernsey island again
and this is the 15th of June. After taking
the train (not a buss as formerly) we ar-
rived at the seaport and parish of St.
Sampson’s. We found Mr. Stranger’s
sister, who took us through the house
owned by my dear father and the house
where I was born. Opposite is the Wes-
leyan Methodist chapel and Sunday
school building, also, where I had taught
after my father had left the church of
England. This lady conversed with us
for some time, then took us to some
friends, the Dorey’s, and others; then we
took a run down to see the dear old
church where I had been christened while
in infancy. This church was built in 1111,
the inside has been renovated, but the
outside is the same as built at that an-
cient date. The few that knew my dear
father were pleased to see us, and when
asked if they remembered him, exclaimed,
“I seem to see his dear, cheerful face
now while I am speaking,” proving to us
that he was not forgotten. His remains
now lie in the cemetery of St. John, Kan-
sas, the place where we embraced the
Gospel. When my father visited my only
sister in New Jersey, she reluctantly al-
lowed him to come and see us, then old
and feeble, but as it was his great desire
to see me and spend  his last days with
us, she parted with him, but it was only
for a short time he stayed with us, as a
few weeks afterwards he had a paralytic
stroke, from which he never recovered,
liying but a short time, closing his eyes,
he again took another journey to the
great beyond, in the year 1888. He had
filled his mission, having been as a father
and mother most of the time to his moth-
erless children. Well, I must not dwell
too long on these sacred spots, so we will
wish good-bye to little Guernsey.
		(To be Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


