[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | November | Issue: 5 | Title: TURY PROPHET. | Author: Unknown]

			TURY PROPHET.

Ere earth was formed for man’s abode, our Proph-
	et Joseph, honored Seer,
Stood ’mong the great and noble ones, of heaven’s
	mighty hosts, a peer;
God, seeing all their excellence, their truth, their
	valor and their worth,
Said, “these will I my rulers make,” as they shall 
	sojourn on the earth.
As epochs, dispensations passed, these noble ones,
	by heaven decreed,
Each came, allotted part fulfilled, at time and
	place as God had need.
Joseph, reserved till latter days, a great and
	mighty work was given,
Gathering, restoring keys and powers, ere Christ
	shall reign on earth as heaven.
As gushing rivulet and stream, in swift and ever
	onward sweep,
At length are merged in ocean wave and swell the
	waters of the deep,
So dispensations merge and blend, in one sublime,
	harmonious whole,
And Joseph stands aye more than peer, as ages,
	cycles o’er him roll.

At nineteenth century’s dawn he came, this Pro-
	phet babe, from heaven sent forth,
Hfs destiny how great and grand! his mission to
	illumine earth—
Long had the world in error lain, no voice from
	God, no gospel plan—
Gross darkness brooded over all, the heavens
	were brass to fallen man.
But lo! a faint light hovered, gleamed, o’er the
	boy prophet as he grew,
And yet a youth—Father and Son, in glory burst
	through azure blue,
And Father said, “This is my Son, hear Him,” in
	everything He says,
For man has strayed and mighty work must needs
	be done in latter days.
Angels as tutors now were sent, his great work
	fitting him to do;
The Priesthood they again restored, with gifts and
	blessings old and new. 
Grandly equipped, by heaven, he rose with pow-
	er confronted all the world,
Denounced their creeds and theories, the while
	Truth’s standard he unfurled.
How Satan raged! and Joseph’s name was had
	by men “for good and ill,”
But Christ who calmed that storm at sea, said now
	to Joseph, “Peace, be still,”
And thus mid all the scoffs and jeers a cold and
	cruel world could give,
He stood majestic, facing right, and taught men
	how to righteous live.

Communication was restored, just as of old, ’twixt
	earth and heaven,
Man felt the all-awakening force, though knew he
	not from whence ’twas given,
Yet he achieved, he wrought, he soared, he
	boasted, O thou puny man!
The rapid, giant strides you’ve made were but to
	aid the gospel plan.

[Column 2]
Forgetting not his mother’s sex, for womanhood
	he turned the key;
Unfettered she arose and grasped the scope of her
	grand destiny;
O daughters all of mother Eve! O womankind
	where’er you be!
Know this: the Prophet Joseph Smith this era
	brought to you and me.
Through him was every key restored, not one
	small thing was left undone,
He lived in deeds far more than years for soon to
	him came setting sun;
But life and labors were complete, finished was
	his great work on earth,
The dead awaited his approach, so death was but
	another birth.
Then sing all ye angelic hosts! rejoice ye saints
	throughout the earth!
And celebrate as fit each year the day of his aus-
	picious birth,
Then sing ye saints of latter days and take ye up
	the sweet refrain,
Our martyred Prophet lives again and will with
	God forever reign.
Ye nations, peoples, far and near, who gaze with
	awe on what ye see,
Our nineteenth century Prophet turned the twen-
	tieth century’s wondrous key.
And yet, 'mid light and knowledge rife, destruc-
	tion spreads her sable pall
Because of greed, of lust, of wrong, God’s hand is
	writing on the wall.
