VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1876.	No. 7.


For the EXPONENT.
	LINES.

BY A RETRENCHMENT GIRL.

Why are we to the things of earth
	So carefully endeared,
Forgetful of "The Kingdom" oft,
	Which must to God be reared?
Why do we vain and foolish thoughts
	Upon a home bestow,
Which winds or floods or flaming fire
	Might in an hour lay low?

A safe, bright home awaits us,
	A heavenly mansion fair;
The loved ones we have mourned as dead,
	Now live and worship there.
They'l welcome us with out-stretched arms,
	At the Eternal Gate—
Oh! happy, joyous, meeting—
	Sweet friends, how can we wait?

But ah! the richest boon of all,
	When this life's work is done;
Will be to know those Blessed Ones-
	the FATHER and the SON!
To look upon their faces kind,
	To press their gracious hands,
And hear their own lips teach the law,
	And utter wise commands.

How can we, and why mnst we wait!
	Yet, patience, O my soul!
Perform thy mission faithfully,
	All anxiuos haste control.
'Tis not for you to question why
	The way is long or rough,
But to be ready when the call
	Shall come, "It is enough."


[COLUMN 1]

For the EXPONENT.
MRS. DUNIWAY'S LECTURE.

	I suppose, dear girls, you will all think,
"Well, if I were going to write about any-
thing, I would write it in the season thereof,
and not wait till the circumstance was a
month old, and had been forgotten by every
one except myself!" But I'll tell you how
it is with me. When I am washing, iron-
ing, sweeping, cooking, sewing or running
after a mischievous baby I cannot be writ-
ing; and these former things occupy so
much of my time that I only find now and
then a spare moment for anything else.
	I went to hear Mrs. D's. Sunday evening
lecture, because—my mother said I might.
—I liked it very much too, except one or
two small insinuations which I considered
uncalled for, and which served to weaken
rather than to give vim to the otherwise
excellent speech. She told her audience
that she had milked cows and made butter
in abundance, in earlier days; she had
washed, cooked, plucked geese, taught
school, kept a milliner's shop and raised a
family of boys; she advised the girls when-
ever they considered themselves old enough,
and strong enough, and wise enough to take
upon themselves the responsibilities of
wifehood, to get married as she did. I
liked all that. "But," she added, "do not
imagine that I would have you take FRAC-
TIONAL husbands, as many of the women of
Utah seem perfectly willing to do." This
was one of the weak points which she pre-
sented, and I did not like it.
	What right, let me ask, has such a wo-
man to advise the girls of Utah upon a
subject of which she knows, practically,
nothing, ontradistinction to the teach-

[COLUMN 2]

ings of their own noble mothers, many of
whom have lived in polygamy for ten-
twenty and thirty years? Mrs. Duniway
appears to be a thoroughly practical woman.
I think she should let polygamy entirely
alone until she actually knows something
about it.
	The speaker gave a highly interesting ac-
count of her own personal experience.
she spoke with energy nnd earnestness in
favor of equality of the sexes, in the right
to control property and make laws concern-
ing it. She truthfully illustrated the lit-
tleness and insipidity of the souls of wo-
men who are perfectly content to let the
world move on in its own way, with no
thought for others because all is well with
themselves. This was only in reference to
property and woman's right to vote.
	She did not say as I would if I were a
lecturer, that every good woman has a right
to be married to a good man; and that, as
there are so many more worthy women than
men, it is noble and good for more than
one woman to accept the same man as a
husband. Of course I did not expect her to
say anything of the kind, but I felt I should
like to say it for her.
	I did not go to hear her Rail Road lecture,
though I wanted to very much. I had
been washing that day and was tired; then
I must have taken a long walk in order to
attend the lecture. Still I would have gone,
but that my mother said, "I think you had
better not my dear. I should like to have
you go and learn all you might, but you
have worked hard, and it is not best to
over-tax nature."
	I have learned, girls, that to listen to the
counsel of a good mother, pays better than
anything else.
	A FARMER'S DAUGHTER.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THERE WILL be a Republican Convention
held at Worcester, Mass., Tues., Sep. 5th.
	A FREE HOSPITAL is about to be erecte
at the Begum of Bhopal, as a memorial of
the visit of the Prince of Wales to India.
The cost will probably be 80,000 rupees.
	MAURICE SAND, son of the French au-
thoress, warns all persons possessed of
manuscript copies of letters from his moth-
er, not to make them public without special
authorization from him.
	A STATE Convention is to be held in Bos-
ton on Tuesday, Sept. 12, 1876, at 11 o'clock
a. m., to consider their political duties in
regard to the fall elections; also to make
nominations for state officers if it is con-
sidered advisable. Men and women are in-
vited who are interested in Woman suf-
frage.
	A SCHOOL is to be founded to the mem-
ory of Lady Augusta Stanly, in the neigh-
borhood of Westminister Abbey. The
school is to be a Home and Training School
of Nurses. To the poor this lady was a con-
stant and tender friend, and always carried
with her the warmth and energy of true
sympathy in the hour of adversity or sick-
ness.
	HARPER'S WEEKLY says the truly inde-


pendent voters support Hayes, not because
they do not severely condemn much for
which the Republican party in any intelli-
gible system of party government must be
held responsible, but because, upon a sensi-
ble and practical survey of the situation
and the parties, they have decided that the
better element of the Republican party is
more likely to prevail for good results than
that of the Democratic.
	AT THE Exposition, near to Machinery
Hall, is situated the Turkish Cafe, a pretty
cheerful resort. A Turkish gentleman
from Constantinople presides over it, and
the attendants are in the picturesque cos-
tume of that locality. If you wish coffee,
it is made at once in little brass coffee pots,
each holding a cup, over a little charcoal
fire in a small furnace in one corner of the
room. The berry is ground as fine as meal,
and the coffee is poured into a tiny cup
which rests on a stand of silver filigree, the
liquor is as thick as cream; it soon settles,
and the beverage sweetened with rock
candy and served without milk is sure to
be delicious to lovers of good coffee. To
strangers this glimpse of Oriental life, its
people and customs is peculiarly interest-
ing. They will also serve you with Turk-
ish pipes and tobacco in their own peculiar
style.


FOURTH EPISTLE OF HAL TO
			THE "OLD MAID".

	I looked for you at the Normal Institute,
for I was there—were you? If you an-
swer me that you were really present at
those very instructive meetings, I believe
I may pronounce myself satisfied that I
know your name now, and should recognize
you if good fortune should ever chance to
bring us face to face.
	Please tell me if you were not greatly de-
lighted with Mr. Ottinger's lectures. I
thought them remarkable for clearness, and
besides drawing is a subject in which I am
much interested. I thought your face gave
evidence of interest during all the lectures,
but especially when something particularly
amusing was going on. I feel sure that you
were there, and that I made no mistake in
the one I singled out for you.
	You have not read Nasby's "Hannah
Jane?" You will find it in Hill's Manual,
which is an excellent book for young teach-
ers.
	You would like to see me, "just for fun"
would you? I am sorry to say that I am
not at all funny. But as funny people and
sedate people generally agree well together,
I hope to hear from you again very soon;
and
	If human forms were formed to soar,
		Like human fancy light and free,
	Here would I calmly wait no more,
		On hope's bright wings I'd fly to thee.
	But since we're doomed to dwell apart,
		And 'tis the common fate of men—
			(And women, too,)
	Thank heaven for this goodly art,
		Communication with the pen.—
			Fair maid, adieu.


THE most inquisitive of ancient divini-
ties—Tellus.


50		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting held
in the 14th Ward, on Saturday, August 19,
was well attended. Counselor Mrs. B. W.
Smith presided. The speakers were spir-
ited and earnest, and seemed to be es-
pecially led to dwell upon the subject of
building Temples. Counselor Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball alluded to the time when the
Kirtland Temple was being built, when the
Saints all considered that what they pos-
sessed belonged to the work of the Lord;
when the women would churn and cheer-
fully send their butter to the workmen on
the Temple and eat without any on their
own tables; then they were all hopeful and
joyous; she had never seen happier days in
her life that she knew of. Sister Mercy M.
Thompson spoke beautifully concerning the
giving of donations for the building of
Temples. She considered that the poor
saint's dollar, which was given with a
grateful hand out of a meagre pittance,
would go farther towards purchasing eter-
nal blessings in the kingdom of God, than
the dollar of a person whom the Lord has
blessed with abundance, so that the small
sum given would never be missed. A num-
ber of sisters bore strong testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel. At the close of the
meeting, Counselor Mrs. Phebe Woodruff
asked the sisters to remember in their pray-
ers—Sister Horne—the beloved President of 
the Associationwho has been so long unable
to attend.

HYRUM, CACHE Co., Aug. 17, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	The members of our society are still alive
to the interests of the kingdom and al-
ways ready to lend a helping hand to the
poor and the needy, and to give a word of
comfort to the downcast. We held our 8th
Annual meeting on the 7th inst. There
were present on the stand several of the
brethren of this place and Sister Maughan of
Logan. Our report was laid before the
meeting which showed we had done many
good deeds in assisting the poor, donating
to the emigration, missionaries and Temple.
The brethren gave very good instructions
and encouraged us to faithfulness and per-
severance.
	Sister Maughan addressed the meeting a
short time, said our balance sheet was a
great credit to us; exhorted us to continue
in well doing. President Christina Liljen-
quist felt thankful for the good instructions
we had received, and asked the blessings
of the Lord upon the Saints. We had a
good time and the Spirit of the Lord was
with us; all seemed to feel to renew their
exertios to do good and to sustain our
President and those in authority. We
hope to build a house of our own next sea-
son and feel sure the Lord will bless us in
our endeavors. All is peace and quiet in
our little town and the Lord has blest us
with a bountiful harvest which the breth-
ren are very busy gathering in.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper
I remain your Sister,
	NANCY M. NEILSON, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		SOME OF MY THOUGHTS.

	ADDRESSED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY
				OF NEPHI.

	Owing to a diffidence which always at-
tends me whenever I attempt to speak be-
fore my sisters in our meetings, I thought
I would write a few lines which I surely

[Column 2]
could command courage enough to read.
When a vote of thanks was given me for
the faithful performance of my duty as
secretary my heart overflowed with grati-
tude and thankfulness to my heavenly
Father for the good feeling manifested by
my sisters, but I could not express my
thanks then, which I now beg you to ac-
cept.
	When a meeting was appointed for the
organization of a Relief Society, I thought
I would attend, partly from curiosity to see
how it would be conducted not expecting
I should be called on to occupy a place in
this society, but that I would, if permitted,
at some future day become a member. But
when I entered the house, before I took my
seat our Bishop called my name for secre-
tary. I thought it impossible for me to fill
that position, and therefore begged to be
excused on the grounds that I already had
as many duties as I could perform, and that
there were many others who could fill the
place much better than I could, not having
had the advantages of an education which
would qualify me for such a position. But
my excuses were not accepted and I was
elected. I knew my inability; and the
thought came, the Lord must help me or I
shall fail; I felt humble and asked His aid,
and am now willing to give Him thanks for
the honor that was bestowed upon me at
our last meeting. I have often noticed how
well our sisters in these societies fill
their positions, and I know it is because
they are humble and willing to try with the
help of the Lord to do what is required of
them. We are not all called to fill the same
places, but every one that does her duty in
the office assigned to her to fill, be it ever
so humble a one, is just as honorable and
deserving of praise as the one who occupies
the highest position; and I think I can say
in truth that our President and Counselors'
are just as willing to award praise where
they see one attending to her duties faith-
fully, whether in attending her meetings
or in staying at home to look after the fam-
ily that God has given her; for He will re-
quire her to guard well the jewels He has
entrusted to her care. And here let me
say how often has my heart been pained to 
witness the neglect that we as mothers are
guilty of in regard to our children. When
I see so many of our girls and boys run-
ning wild, disgracing themselves and their 
parents, and sinning against God, I think
we shall not all escape punishment. Moth-
ers, let me exhort you, with myself, to gird
on the armour of watchfulness, and never,
no never lay it off again until we have
rooted out this arch enemy (recklessness)
which has been the cause of so much evil
among our young people. What a stigma
on virtue and religion, what a disgrace to
our settlement, and above all what a sin be-
fore God! Arouse sisters and let us unite
in this great work that lies before us, and
let us call on our young sisters to assist for
the responsibility also rests upon them. I
feel that we have already put this matter off
too long and that God will hold us account-
able for the same. I presume that many
mothers feel that their children are young
and want to enjoy themselves, but we
must remember that because they are
young and have not the wisdom and experi-
ence of older persons, they are not pre-
pared to shun temptation, therefore they
need our watch-care and counsel. Better,
far better to curtail their pleasures or offend
them now, than to allow them to go unre-
strained and unprotected.
	If we take the right course with our
children when they are quite young, talk
kindly to them and tell them the conse-

[Column 3]
quence of an incorrect course, and point
out the path of virtue, and portray its
blessings and advantages, there will be but
very few who will not have confidence
enough in their mothers to heed what they
say, and in after years will bless them for
their strict requirements of obedience to
their wishes, and for their guidance and
care.
	When I commenced to write, I had no
intention of touching on this subject; but it
was forcibly presented to my mind and I
felt it my duty to pen some of my thoughts
in regard to it.
	Hoping that God will help us to be dili-
gent and faithful in all the duties of life,
and fill honorably the station assigned—to
each of us, I will add no more.
							A. L. B.


FLORAL HINTS.

	FOR RAISING FERNS:—Make a bed of
deep rich soil from the woods; in this bed
plant the native ferns; they will bear
transplanting at any time. This bed for
ferns should be on the north side of the
house or fence.
	THE rose requires high culture, and
should be planted in good, well-drained
soil, it can scarcely be too rich. The in-
sects which are most injurious to the rose
may be easily destroyed by syringing the
plants in tobacco water. Care should be ta-
ken in winter to protect them from severe
cold and frosts; cover them with leaves or
straw, or remove them to a cool cellar. A
nice way to plant rose-bushes is in a circle,
with some tall growing shrub in the cen-
tre; in this way they can better be pro-
tected in winter by throwing some straw or
light brush over them.
	CARE OF PLANTS:—Almost all house
plants require constant care and attention,
plenty of sunshine and fresh air, they will
not thrive without it. Windows which face
the south are the best for most plants; am-
monia water is one of the best fertilizers,
making the leaves fresh and green, also
liquid manure, but very weak. For some
delicate plants the Floral Cabinet recom-
mends glue-water; get the most common
dark glue, put it in a pitcher or jar, pour
boiling water over it, then when it is cold
dilute it and water the plants with it about
once a week; glue being made of bones and
refuse of various kinds is a very good stim-
ulant and makes the plants look healthy and
fresh. Sprinkle and wash plants frequent-
ly, and as much as possible keep them free
from dust.


CHINESE GARDEN:—The largest garden
in the world is in China; it covers an area
of fifty thousand square miles, round
Shanghai; it has been in a high state of cul-
tivation for hundreds of years. Three crops
a year are harvested from it; it is all mea-
dow land, raised a few feet above the wa-
ter, and with a complete net work of water
communication.


THE term "conservative," so says an
English writer of note, was first used in
the "Quarterly Review," for January, 1830,
by John Wilson Croker thus. "We despise
and abominate the details of partizan war-
fare, but we are now, as we always have
been, decidedly and conscientiously attached
to what is called the Tory, and which might
with more propriety be called the Conserva-
tive party."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		51


ISABELLA.

Oh, Woman! Genius, power, kingdoms,
Thrones, with all their charms and prestige—
Sceptres, subjects, ministering spirits—round,
Hover round thy footsteps, to watch thine eye,
To catch thy lightest word and that obey;
To stand in highest altitude, erect and firm,
And ne'er turn dizzy with the regal hight—
Who still is WOMAN, still her nature holds,
Pure, unsullied, as a queen should be,
Who has an ear for Truth, for Genius,
In whatever form it comes, though stript
Of worldly grandeur—all the world calls great;
And Standing like the far-famed obelisks
Of far-famed Egypt, alone, unread,
With naught to herald it but that intense,
That persevering Genius God bestows
On those He singles out to do His work;
His work on earth where man his agent is,
And woman too, his partner and co-mate
In all the grand, essential moves upon
The mighty chess-board of the game of life
Such was Isabella, Sovereign of Castile
And Queen of Ferdinand and Spain.
To Ferdinand—himself a king—she brought
Her throne, her kingdom, subjects, and herself,
And laid them at the feet of him to whom
More, more than all, she gave her loving heart—
A gem of which a monarch might yet be proud;
And he—most rarely found—proved worthy
of all the wealth she showered on his head.
They lived, and loved, and reigned conjointly;
Hand and heart united in their regal work,
When lo! a man in humble guise presents
Himself, and with them craves an audience.
He is admitted. In person, regal
As the pair to whom he is presented;
She has an eye at once to read the man;
A heart to feel he bears upon his form
The duplicate of HIM who gave the mission,
And sustained throughout, in ev'ry need the man
Ferdinand gives attention—Isabella
Enthusiasm. She felt the man of God
A messenger direct, and hence prepared
To learn his mission and obey his voice.
Columbus spoke! and then at once a queen
Stood forth as tho apostle of his cause;
A queen, a woman, a proselyte of truth,
A truth that did enrich his day and age,
Was first received by woman's gentle heart;
Isabella was that woman; and she
Never waver'd, but until death was true.
Before her court's indifference, before
His enemies, or his reverses, she
Believed him true, and was upon the throne
His proselyte, and to the grave his friend.

Ferdinand, in this, was worldly-minded;
Isabella saw, with spirit eyes, he
Was a man of destiny! a man of God!
And told the man appointed to investigate
The claims Columbus advocated,
That they were haggling with God the price of
Empire, and of souls, whom to idolatry
Their infidelity would leave. The king
Had not the faith that he could meet expense
So mighty as a naval outfit for
The man, who, in returning, promised
An Empire that should astound the world
And ages yet unborn.

Isabella listened to the colloquy, then with a
Burst of heavenly enthusiasm cried,
"I will undertake the enterprise alone
For my crown of Castile; I will pawn
My diamonds and my jewels, in MY eyes
Most worthless, compared with what is offered
By this great, good man, whom God has sent to us."
This noble burst of woman's feeling triumphed
The king, chagrined, consented to inspect
His treasury and see what could be done!
"Disinterestedness is the true wisdom
Of great politicians!" Columbus
Was re-called. He bow'd at the feet of her
Who'd nobly won for him the victory;
His soul was full of sweet emotions,
And she wept tears upon his noble head;
Ferdinand was moved and ratified the deed,
And into unknown seas the explorer passed.
	HANNAH T. KING.


TEMPLE FUNDS.

	The Countess of Huntington, who lived
about one hundred years ago, was a religious
reformer. We think she was one of the
noblest women of whom we ever read.
She gave her time and talents, her exten-


sive influence and her entire fortune to the
service of the Lord. So great was her de-
sire to advance the good work which she
had espoused that she allowed herself only
one new dress a year. Her means were
employed in building and supporting chap-
els in which converted souls might wor-
ship undisturbed by the show of pride and
vanity which characterizes common church-
goers.
	In contemplating the earnest zeal with
which that excellent lady worked for the
benefit and salvation of mankind, as far as
she understood, the thought arises, what
a vast amount of good might be done by
our sisters, if they were really as earnest
and as zealous in the cause of truth and
righteousness as she was. True she was
a lady of wealth and influence. She sold
her jewelry and used the means thus pro-
cured in the erection of a college for the
benefit of young ministers. No one of us
could do anything like that. But suppose
that several hundred or a few thousand of
us should put together all our best jewelry
—reserving, perhaps, some sacred tokens,
such as "the ring MY MOTHER wore," or a
wedding ring—would not the money thus
obtained do something towards building a
temple to our God?
	We have been informed that in some of
the Retrenchment Associations in this city,
five cent Temple Funds have been estab-
lished. In these funds, each young lady or
little girl may deposit a nickle once a week,
or as often as she can get one, instead of
spending it for a piece of ribbon or lace or
a bit of candy; an excellent plan, we think.
And not only should the officers of these
associations encourage the younger mem-
bers, more by example than precept, to
sustain and enlarge funds of this kind, but
mothers should find great satisfaction in as-
sisting to make such things items of spec-
ial interest.
						A MOTHER.


WOMAN’S RECORD.

	CHARLOTTE Bremer, the only sister of
the celebrated Frederika Bremer, and sharer
in her literary labors, died at Stockholm,
July 8th. She was born in 1799.
	THERE were more than two thousand
years ago women missionaries, one the
daughter of an emperor who, at her own
expense went to Ceylon and introduced
Buddhism into that island.
	MADAME Christine Neilson has recently
given over one thousand pounds to the
Committee of Diseases of the Throat. This
is the second gift from her generous hand
to the same institution, and was the pro-
ceeds of a concert given in May.
	MRS. Thomas, widow of a Baptist mis-
sionary, has been made superintendent of a
diocese in Burmah, which includes thirty-
nine native Karen pastors besides other
evangelists, schools, etc. The annual re-
port of the Baptist Missionary Union, speaks
of her new plans and labors, and her emi-
nent fitness for the position.
   MRS. L. H. Green, M. D. writes from
the Women’s Dispensary, Barielly, India:
"People of all castes come to the Dispensa-
ry. Ladies of the higher classes spend so
much time in retirement that they are glad
to go out under any pretext that may seem
to their friends respectable.
	MISS Jane Bay, of Baltimore, who died
recently, bequeathed over $200,000 to the
"Jane Bay Home for Boys." We agree in
the sentiments expressed by the Woman's
Journal. "How much better if she had re-
membered the still more destitute orphans
of her own sex, also." This institution
was incorporated by the last Legislature for
educating and training orphan and poor
boys.
	THE widow of Frederic VII of Denmark,
the Countess Danner, left her property val-
ued at $4,000,000, for the maintenance of an
institution for orphan and deserted girls of
Denmark. The central building of the in-
stitution will be the castle of Jagersprls, in
North Zealand, and it is expected will ac-
commodate [-]00, or 800 children.


PROFESSOR RIGGS ATTENDS THE
		EDUCATIONAL CONGRESS.

	At the three days session of the National
educational association, in the Academy of
Music, Baltimore, twenty-six states and
two territories, viz, Arizona and Utah were
represented. The papers read and the sub-
jects discussed, made the association one of
the most interesting and instructive char-
acter to the educator. At the close of the
association, the international congress as-
sembled for a one day's session in the same
place. The countries represented there
were: Of America—The United States,
Canada, Brazil and the Argentine Repub-
lic; of Europe—England, Lapland, Norway
and Sweden; of Asia—China and Japan;
the Sandwich Islands and Australia. The
speeches made by all those representatives
could be understood, except the Laplander's,
which was interpreted by Dr. Meyerberg of
Stockholm.
	After the adjournment, the teachers of
the public schools of Baltimore, tendered
the convention an excursion to Fair Haven
on the steamer Matilda. Fair Haven is
about fifty miles down the Chesapeake bay,
and was reached about 6 o'clock, where two
hours were spent and a collation of Mary-
land delicacies enjoyed. On the return
passage a business meeting of the conven-
tion was held in the cabin of the steamer,
at which the following resolutions, with
others, was adopted;
	Resolved, That, next to liberty, educa-
tion has been the great cause of the mar-
vellous prosperity of the republic in the


first century of its history, and it is the
sure and only hope of its future. The high-
est concern and the grandest duty of the
new century now opened is the right edu-
cation of every child born into American
liberty.				O. H. RIGGS,
			Ter. Supt. Dis. Schools.


KIND WORDS DO NOT COST MUCH:—They
do not blister the tongue or lips, and no one
ever heard of any mental trouble arising
from this quarter; though they do not cost
much, yet they accomplish a great deal;
they help one's own good nature and will.
Soft words soften our own soul; angry words
are fuel to the flame of wrath, and make it
blaze more fiercely; kind words make other
people good-natured; cold words freeze peo-
ple and hot words scorch them, sarcastic
words irritate them, and bitter words make
them wrathful. There is such a rush of
all other kinds of words that it seems de-
sirable to give kind words a chance among
them. Vain words, silly words, hasty
words, empty words, profane words, bois-
terous words, and a great variety of naughty
words. Kind words produce their own im-
age on men's souls, the image of beauty.
They soothe, and quiet and comfort; they
shame away sour, morose and unkind feel-
ings; kind words should be used in abund-
ance.


52		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 1, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

TAKE CARE.

	Autumn has come again. September with
its fair cool mornings, its mild and pleasant
days and chilly evenings is with us once more.
Now is the time when thoughtful florists
and gardeners begin to shelter their tender
plants; cautiously watching for the approach
of early frosts, making preparations to ward off
the same, and prevent all injurious effects.
	And now, oh! anxious mothers, is one of the
times when special care should be exercised
over the bodies and health of the little human
plants which God has placed in our charge.
Do not wait until freezing winter weather
comes before you think of the childrens' wool-
en dresses and stockings. Already they should
be in readiness to supply the places of light
summer clothing.
	It does seem as though enough has been said
and written to revolutionize the world in this
respect. And still there is astonishing evi-
dences of much ignorance and want of thought
on the subject. A woman comes into a meet-
ing house where religious services are being
conducted, and as she enters, the damp, chilly
atmosphere fairly makes her shiver although
she is wrapped in a warm woolen shawl; yet in
her arms she carries a bright, fat baby, dressed
in white jaconet, with bare arms and neck,
blue with cold, and thin cotton stockings
which do not come to the knees! Such in-
consistencies are difficult to imagine, yet as
day by day they are brought to notice, the
stern reality of their existence, and even of
their prevalence, cannot be denied. When will
the people learn, and when will they put in
practice the good they know? Sometimes
there seems to be so much on hand, so many
things crowding at once, that it is almost an
impossibility to bestow the requisite care up-
on the babies. But mothers should always
keep in mind the fact, that it does not require
half the time or half the trouble to take care
of a well child, that it does to nurse a sick one.
If all things cannot be accomplished as a wo-
man may desire, let something go undone.
Let her can or dry less fruit than she intended,
and give the surplus, which would otherwise
be wasted, to her poor neighbors. Let beds go
unmade or kitchen work undone if necessary,
let anything else be neglected rather than the
children. And if by close care and attention
they can be kept in good health and spirits,
let every one carry a cheerful face and a thank-
ful heart, and let no one fret about what has
not been done. or cannot be done.
	Never regard symptoms of disease in a child
as nothing serious, but study how to take wise
precautions against dangerous illness. And
when in the case of a child being slightly in-
disposed, anything ought to be done, let it be

[COLUMN 2]

done at once and not put off for a more conve-
nient time when other matters have been at-
tended to. By saying "take care," we do not
mean to be over anxious and uneasy and full
of undue solicitude all the while concerning
the little ones. Wise care prevents cause for
anxiety, saves trouble and expense, and often
averts sorrow.
	The autumn will come again; beautiful
flowers, delicious fruit and rich, golden grain
will blossom, mature and ripen. But if one
of the children is taken from us, we can never.
have it back while we remain in mortality.
Yet when care and watchfulness have failed to
retain the little being here, there is still con-
solation in the reflection that neglect or im-
prudence had nothing to do with its suffering
or its departure.
	Be mindful of your own health mothers, for
your own sakes, but more particularly for the
sake of your babies. You will lose less time in
taking care of yourselves if you do so, than in
being unable to work if you do not.


[Column 1]
		A GLANCE AT THE FUTURE.

	There is in the nature of all intelligent per-
sons a definite or undefined longing to look for-
ward into the future and to discern by the pres-
ent transpiring events, or judge from the past,
what the indications are of coming prosperity or
evil. When any great change is on the tapis
this is more especially the case; people cannot
but question and wonder, what the great move
will bring about, and whether it will promote
and foster an influence for good or ill.
	In America perhaps more than in any other
country in the world, the majority of the peo-
ple interest themselves understandingly in the
subjects of rulers and governments; because
each person considers himself a citizen of free
and independent principles, and a part of
the great body politic.
	Then the educational system of this grand
country has been established upon such a
broad scale as to reach all classes and therefore
they are taken as a whole, better enlightened
on all practical subjects and interests. It
would seem to one not knowing anything of
the real wickedness and corruption that exists
in the United States, and possessing a knowl-
edge of the laws and constitution, and being
familiar with the geography of the country,
its great internal resources, and the enlighten-
ed condition of its inhabitants, that of all peo-
ple in the world the people of America should
be the most prosperous; but how far from this
is this their present condition? Underlying
the surface which is not in itself altogether
free from turmoil and ripples, is an element of
contention seething and boiling and foaming,
ready to burst its bounds at any moment if not
quelled and kept in subjection to the powers
that be.
	The people at the present time seem to
think, that whatever change occurs, matters
really cannot be made worse, and naturally
hopeful, expect that the next presidential era
will assuredly settle some of the many diffi-
culties now pending. The corruption of men
in power has become the theme of common
conversation, and there is scarcely a child old
enough to read that does not seem somewhat
informed in regard to crime in high places;
with such men at the helm, what can be ex-
pected of the state of public society?
	It is said and justly too, that happy homes
and well-disciplined families are the true ele-
ments of great institutions, and social and
and general government; but there can
scarcely be any permanent, thorough home-

[Column 2]
happiness when the sovereign power of the
nation is vested in men who have no genu-
ine interest in the homes of the people.
	Of course it is humiliating for a nation who
have boasted so much of freedom and liberty
to acknowledge that they are wrong, that they
have allowed unrestrained license to those in
power, instead of the liberty of action, which
the rights of the CONSTITUTION guarantee; but
the wrong has become so undeniable [-]o out-
rageously self-evident that every intelligent
person must perforce perceive that some posi-
tive change is necessary.
	Liberty implies responsibility, and that is
not liberty which resolves itself into selfish-
ness and indifference to another's rights; this
odious attitude of public matters totally and
hopelessly demolishes all real society all true
general government. If there are any persons
so blind to the present state of national affairs
as not to be able to see the elements of total
wreck and dissolution, they have only to open
their eyes and ears to attain completely this
uncomfortable conviction. The great difficulty
in the matter is, how wisely and prudently,
to select and then apply a sale and speedy
remedy; and for such an issue at the present
crisis, with all the differences of opinion which
exist, is there any sure foundation or funda-
mental basis for believing such a change will
be effected?


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MESSRS. G. M. Ottinger and C. R. Savage
have started for Philadelphia where they pur-
pose remaining a few days as visitors to the
great Centennial Exposition.
	THANKS FOR the "Utah Musical Times,"
number six of the publication: it is the first
we have had the pleasure of perusing. A jour-
nal devoted to music, art and literature ought
certainly to be of great advantage in a com-
munity to encourage refining and elevating
influences. We are pleased with its contents
and wish it success.
	MRS. DR. Ellen Fergurson who is at present
residing in St. George, recently gave a lecture
in that city. Her subject was Rome. We had
the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Ferguson and her
husband when they were in Salt Lake on
their way to St. George. Mrs. Ferguson is a
woman of very pleasing manners and appear-
ance, has traveled extensively, and has had a
superior classic and a thorough medical educa-
tion, with considerable practice.
	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon delegate to Con-
gress from Utah, with his wife and daughter,
has returned home, arriving Monday evening
Aug. 21st. He has given most complete satisfac-
tion by his labors the past years, to those most
interested in the future welfare of Utah, and
truly merited the good feelings of the people he
has served. We greet him welcome to Utah
and his mountain home.
	THE DESERET University opened as usual at
the University Buildings, Mo[-]day Morning,
Aug. 21st, Dr. J. R. Park, Pri[--]cipal. The
rules and regulations and the system of in-
struction are similar to that of pre[-]ious years.
The teachers substantially the same; the at-
tendance is as large as could be expected so
early in the season. Dr. Park and those en-
gaged with him spare no pains to make the
school in every respect equal to similar insti-
tutions in the East. Dr. Park himself is a
teacher of vast experience, and one who mani-
fests the truest interest in the development
and education of the young.


[Column 1]
	MISS M. E. Cook will open her Graded
School in the Social Hall on the first Monday
in this month, September 4th, assisted by her
former teachers. Miss Cook has taken great
pains and been untiring in her efforts to es-
tablish this system of school here; she has so
far succeeded as to draw forth encomiums of
praise and commendation from persons inter-
ested in the subject of schools and education in
Utah, and from strangers who have visited her
school and taken pains to go through her rooms
and hear recitations. Miss Cook has taught for
many years and is a thorough and energetic
worker in the cause of education in the school
room and elsewhere. Her terms for tuition
will be the same as usual.
	MRS. WELLS: Yesterday I had the pleasure
of an interview with Mrs. Porter; a Silk Rib-
bon weaver.
	Mrs. Porter has just arrived from England
and has brought harness, reeds, shuttles &c.
&c., with a model of her loom. This morning
she goes to Bountiful, Davis Co., where she
expects to locate, and, as early as practicable,
resume her accustomed occupation.
	It is to be hoped that through the assistance
of our energetic sisters in Bountiful and else-
where, we can trim our hats with Ribbons of
Home Manufacture.				E. R. S.
	S. L. City, Aug. 19.
	THE NORMAL Institute closed its regular
session Thursday, Aug. 17th. There has been
a great deal of instruction given during this
term which cannot fail to be an advantage to
those engaged in teaching, and indeed to all.
There was a report from the committee on res-
olutions tendering thanks to Prof. J. R. Park
and others who had assisted him, the rail-
road companies, and all who had favored the
Institute in any way. Prof. Park returned
his thanks and also in behalf of all interested,
and made some most excellent closing remarks
which it would be well for every person to re-
member and profit by. He exhorted the teach-
ers to remember always at all times and in all
places, in the schoolroom and out of the school
that their conduct should be most exemplary.
He told them how closely children watched
the conduct of teachers and those who were
placed over them; consequently how much
evil a bad example might work upon the
minds of those who were too young to discrim-
inate for themselves. He said the future hap-
piness and prosperity of a nation depended up-
on the training and education of the young;
and that teachers could not be too careful and
judicious in the course they pursued, them-
selves; and by example as well as precept in-
stil into the minds of pupils true principles.
	The Institute in its session this year number-
ed 158 members, including some from almost
every county in Utah. These reunions will
serve to give tone and elevation to the system
of education and by bringing together the best
talent of the country promote the advance-
ment of literature and science.
	HON. JOHN Taylor and Hon. J. F. Smith,
with the teachers of the territory, met in the
University Building Sat. Aug. 12th, and
Monday Aug. 14th, to discuss the question of
suitable school books for the territory. It is
well known that some of the superintendents
and teachers of schools have declined accept-
ing some of the schools books adopted by the
convention. The result of the present conven-
tion was the adoption of certain specified reso-
lutions which we give in full below.
	Resolved, That the following resolutions be
submitted by the secretary of this convention
to the honorable superintendent, O. H. Riggs,
of Utah, as the sentiments of the teachers of

[Column 2]
this territory, and that the same should be
published in the leading newspapers of said
territory.
	Whereas, The acts of the late convention
held by the superintendents of schools of the
territory April 6th, 7th and 8th, 1876, for the
purpose of adopting text books in accordance
with section 16 of the school law of Utah, fail-
ed to meet the approval of many of the citi-
zens of said territory, in consequence of which
said act failed from being carried into execu-
tion; and
	Whereas, Said failure has been attended
with much inconvenience to our schools, in
some instances even breaking up classes, thus
placing our teachers in a very embarrassing
position.
	Therefore, it is the voice of this convention
that the Hon. O. H. Riggs call a convention
for the purpose of unravelling the present
difficulty, and if possible bring about a change
before opening our winter schools.
	In offering this resolution this assembly does
not presume to criticize the acts of said con-
vention, but simply from necessity calls for re-
lief, and appeals to those whose right it is to
say what text books we shall have.
			CHARLES WRIGHT, Chairman.
	ARTHUR PARSONS, Sec:
	WE HAVE had the pleasure of a call from
Elders' M. B. Young and M. H. Hardy who
have been traveling for some months past,
most of the time through the settlements in
the interest of the Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Associations. They visited most of
the settlements South as far as St. George, and
organized in all the towns where it was deem-
ed practicable; they express themselves as
having been treated with the utmost kind-
ness and hospitality by bishops and people,
and everything done as far as possible to ad-
vance the special mission in which they were
engaged. Br. Young while South made quite
a collection of minerals and curiosities to add
to his cabinet; among them were specimens of
petrified corn which must have lain at least a
hundred years, but were perfect in outline.
Upon the top of a very high mountain he
found a great number of petrified oyster shells,
perfect, and some of them closed together, nev-
er having been opened, proving beyond contra-
diction that the sea had once covered that por-
tion of the country.
	Bro. Hardy informed us they had, while
traveling, visited the day and Sunday Schools
and spoken to them whenever they could. At
Monroe they had been very much gratified
with the manner in which the school was con-
ducted by Mrs. Bean, a lady who seemed to
have a thorough understanding of her work.
She had a class in the Book of Mormon which
was very interesting; this Book as a history of
this country and its former inhabitants and
government, ought to be well understood by
the rising generation, and especially by the
children of the Latter-day Saints.
	On the 10th of July Elders' Young and
Hardy started North to visit that part of the
country on the same mission; they held their
first meeting at Brigham City, with the young
people there in a general assembly and had an
interesting time. They then proceeded through
Cache Valley visiting almost every town,
organizing associations at Hyrum, Smithfield,
and Wellsville; thence to Soda Springs and on 
through Bear Lake Valley holding meetings
and organizing Associat[-] societies in nearly all
of the towns and settlements. Br. Hardy in-
formed us that he had been distributing tracts
and pamphlets containing the first principles
of the Gospel, through the Sunday Schools and
associations in the settlements; it will no doubt

[Column 3]
have a tendency to facilitate the work of the
Sunday School—teachers very—considerably.
There are many of the children who are not
sufficiently informed of the fundamental prin-
ciples of the Gospel. Elder Hardy has been
for some years assistant to Dr. J. R. Park in
the Deseret University in Salt Lake City, he
has now gone to assist Br. Carl G. Maeser in
the Academy at Provo. We wish them the
success and patronage we are sure they emi-
nently deserve.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RUNNING IN DEBT.

	I dwell on this point, for I would deter
others from entering that place of torment.
Half the young men in this country, with
many old enough to know better, would go
into business—that is, into debt—to-mor-
row, if they could. Most poor men are so
ignorant as to envy the merchant or manu-
facturer, whose life is one incessant struggle
with pecuniary difficulties, who is driven
to constant "sinkning," and who, from
month to month, barely evades the insolv-
ency which sooner or later overtakes most
men in business; so that it has been compu-
ted that but one man in twenty of them
achieve a pecuniary success. For my own
part I would rather be a convict in the
State prison, a slave in a rice-swamp, than
to pass through life under the harrow of
debt. Let no young man misjudge him-
self unfortunate, or truly poor, so long as
he has the full use of his limbs and facul-
ties, and is substantially free from debt.
Hunger, cold, rags, hard work, contempt,
suspicion and unjust reproach are disagree-
able, but debt is infinitely worse than them
all. And if it had pleased God to spare
either or all my sons to be the support of
my declining years, the lesson which I
should most earnestly seek to impress up-
on them is, "never run in debt." Avoid
pecuniary obligations as you would pesti-
lence and famine. If you have but fifty
cents and can get no more for a week, buy
a peck of corn, parch it and live on it, ra-
ther than owe a dollar! Of course I know
that some men must do business that in-
volves a risk, and must give notes or other
obligations, and I do not consider him in
debt who can lay his hands directly on the
means of paying, at some little sacrifice all
he owes; I speak of real debt—that which
involves risk and sacrifice on one side, ob-
ligation and dependence on the other—and
I say from all such, let every youth humbly
pray God to preserve him evermore.—
Horace Greely.


WEIGHT OF LIGHT: Scientists have
now proved that light has weight, it seems
impossible to associate light with weight
so long have we looked at it in another sense,
that it seems incredible to associate the two
together, but from the fact that light exert-
ed a certain repellant force upon whatever
it fell, Mr. Crook, at the Royal Institution
in London, has lately demonstrated not
only this truth, but that this force or weight
could be measured. Of course this has all
been done on a very minute scale and with
a very finely constructed apparatus; yet it
suffices to give a standard, and from this
the calculation is that sunlight falls with a
weight of thirty-two grains to every square
foot, fifty-seven tons to the square mile, or,
3,000,000,000 tons on the whole earth, a
force that would be sufficient to drive our
globe from its orbit, and send it flying off
into space, but for the still more gigantic
influence of gravity."


54		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		ACTION OR INDIFFERENCE.

			BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

					[handwritten] E. B. Wells

		"Act! for in action are wisdom and glory;
		Fame, immortality—these are its crown;"

	Does not the very indication of the times
demand sober, earnest thought and prompt
and decisive action? And are not the ques-
tions now before the public, such as call for
the united influence of men and women?
What shall be said then in this day of
great social questions when modern society
seems to have arrived at a culminating
point which requires some immediate at-
tention, when crime has so steadily and
surely worked its way into popular and
prominent places and positions, that it is
almost countenanced if not actually sanc-
tioned; what shall be said I repeat, of those
possessing ability and influence who sit in
listlesness and indifference and do not lift
their vioce, or in anywise deprecate this
state of things, seemingly apathetic on the
score that it has nothing whatever to do
with them?
	Let the favored ones, the fair daughters
of the nation who look with such apathy
upon all the abstruse questions of public
and general interest, pause and consider;
they fare sumptuously, their lives are pleas-
ant ones, their homes are elegant, their ta-
bles luxuriously supplied, their husbands or
fathers are perhaps attentive to their every
wish, the world pays them homage, it mat-
ters not to them who wields the power of
state, who sits at the helm; they think not
of the many who must toil or starve, wives,
widows, mothers or sisters, who sue in vain
for some recognition of their equality with
their brother MAN; widows and orphans un-
justly deprived of their honest dues, whose
entreaties and intercessions pass unheeded;
are they not a part of the same great fam-
ily, one universal brotherhood; and if in-
justice is dealt out to some, should not all
feel interested? Think of this you who sit
carelessly with folded arms, while the daugh-
ters of the nation by hundreds and thou-
sands go down into the great whirlpool of
sin and wickedness, their names dishonor-
ed and their eternal future blighted, their
hopes of happiness forever wrested from
them; will you not even ask the cause?
Are you so unconcerned as to allow such
tragedies to be enacted under your eyes and
not even question the justice of such ine-
quality as visits shame and dishonor upon
the head of woman while man the offender
goes scatheless?
	Women, you who are surrounded with
peace and plenty, or competence, with lov-
ing hearts to cherish you and strong hands
to bear you up, think you, that you will be
held guiltless because it is not your daugh-
ter, sister or mother that is wronged?
Should you allow the cares or pleasures of
this world to so absorb your attention that
you cannot take any interest in those im-
portant questions which involve the gener-
al happiness or misery of the nation? Are
you quite sure, you who do not wish to get
mixed up in vexed questions, that you will
be free from blame? Who has absolved
you from duty to your fellows? Is it be-
cause you are so ignorant of the terrible
consequences that are involved by even one
person leading a life of sin? If so, where
is your excuse? Everywhere around you
are the means of enlightenment on these
points; and lectures, public meetings and
conventions where you can learn of these
things if they do not come under your im-
mediate observation; is not this very plea
of ignorance a sin in itself? Are you not

[Column 2]
interested in the welfare temporal and spir-
itual of all the great world of mankind?
Have you not then a desire to know by
what laws countries are governed, and
whether all women YOUR SISTERS, are free
to live their own lives, to follow out their
own convictions of right and wrong, and to
worship God according to the dictates of
their own consciences?
	"I leave all these subjects of discussion to
my husband," says one lady, "he attends to
all these things, it is out of a woman's
sphere, I detest women who mix up with
political affairs and talk like men, I would
not vote if I had ever so much freedom."
These are the sentiments of a large class,
usually happy wives, content to live only
in their husbands affections; as yet, their
homes have never been invaded by any
wolf in sheep's clothing; but the majority
of women have not such homes, are not so
happily situated. And death often takes
away the husband or father, the supporter
and defender, and those so carefully nurtur-
ed by tenderest care, have to struggle with
the world, face to face in the conflict, with
no strong arm for a shield and support, and
should injustice be meted out to them, they
may reflect they could better have informed
themselves in the days of prosperity before
the evil days came. Women shrink away
abashed at the sight of one of their own
sex who they know is openly living a de-
graded life, that of an outcast, and think
themselves modest, and that the presence
of such abandoned ones would pollute them;
they do not want to breathe the same at-
mosphere. Meantime let me ask where
are the men who have caused the downfall,
the ruin, the utter recklessness of these
poor creatures, whose garments must not
touch yours? The world does not frown
upon them, society receives them with open
arms, they are FAST, A LITTLE FAST, by and
by they will settle down into respectable
fathers of families. Yes, and what will
they expect their wives to be— women of
spotless purity. Will they not be unequal-
ly yoked? Why should not woman de-
mand the husband to bring a spotless repu-
tation to the marriage altar?

						"But not alone
	The girl is pure: the boy with beardless lip
	Will blush as fair as any girl, and shrink
	From all unchaste, or evil word or deed
	As virginal as she; and God designed
	No more that woman should be pure than man.
	Your bodies are the temple; know ye not,
	In which the Holy Ghost was made to dwell!"

	Boys should be held morally responsible
as well as girls, and little misdemeanors and
digressions from rectitude should not be
over-looked in them and license allowed
them in the matter of self-restraint, on the
plea that "boys will be boys." There is an
underlying cause and it is useless to at-
tempt the cure of an evil unless the cause
is ascertained; society tolerates certain
wrongs in men simply from long-continued
custom, while it visits with scathing ven-
geance an irreperable blight and disgrace
upon women for the same offences. Should
not those mutually guilty receive the same
censure, or punishment irrespective of sex?
	Men have the reins of power, they "hold
the fort," but in this age of progress, if wo-
men are awake to the great events which
must transpire while these grand evolutions
are going forward, and are found ready to
lend a helping hand in each great move up-
on the "chessboard of life," or within the
arena of action, if they stand firmly side
by side with man in any great social, polit-
ical or national quostion, then may they
work for the advancement and enfranchise-
ment of their sex, be it ever so quietly or

[Column 3]
unobtrusively. In the meantime be thank-
ful for small favors, although they may be
viewed as something doled out more as a
peace offering, than an inherent privilege
by right, yet accept such gladly as a prelim-
inary step, a firm footing gained in the lad-
der of advancement; make use of the rights
allowed, act as far as possible in unison with
each other, and never let one point gained
be so lightly h[-]ld that it will slip from you.
	No intelligent woman should consent to a
grievous wrong or injustice even by her si-
lence; but by all the eloquence and influ-
ence she can bring to bear, seek to instil in-
to the minds of all who come within her
sphere, such principles of honor, justice and
equity as cannot fail to make an impression
upon the side of right.
	Women who are happy wives, who are
surrounded with all that adds beauty and
attraction to life, who have personal and so-
cial influence with MAN, the ruling power,
could, were they fairly aroused, do most in
the cause of enfranchisement which would
materially benefit the condition of all, be-
cause their very position will command fa-
vor and power, and they would not be held
up to ridicule as seeking for notoriety, or
acting from a spirit of revenge; they would
not be caricatured as "hybrids." If such
women could be made to realize the terri-
ble condition of the working-girls whose
wages are not a compensation for labor, but
a mere pittance which will hardly suffice
to keep them from starvation, and that thus
they are the more ready prey of the seducer,
could they be so indifferent? In many in-
stances the net is spread for the girls by the
too wily employer, or those who are suffi-
ciently acquainted with the circumstances
to take advantage of their poverty, and in-
nocent and unsophisticated, they walk into
the snare without warning.
	Give them equality in all respects, and
let each work with the same chance of suc-
cess according to the labor performed, with-
out the consideration of sex, and there
would soon be a vast change which would
be of material benefit to the existing state
of society. But be not discouraged; small
beginnings are the most auspicious, and no
great achievement has been popular at the
outset, and so surely as "coming events cast
their shadows before" it is self-evident that
woman's cause is surely and steadily ad-
vancing; and men who possess the sound-
est principles morally and socially, if they
are really honest, will forward the move-
ment and understand the true policy of a
united effort. Woman does not seek for
any independent power, but only to become
a co-worker in the future development of
human progression, and mutual recognition
of right.
	And why not? There are plenty of in-
stances to prove that women have made
themselves famous in science, art and liter-
ature; and as rulers, have not the reigns of
queens been as successful and judicious as
those of kings?
	You may say they are only exceptional
cases where women become celebrated for
any particular genius, power or excellence
of talent or ability; but is it not equally so
with men in comparison? Woman has had
more difficulties to contend with, her ad-
vantages have been fewer, but let them
have the same opportunities for an educa-
tion, observation and experience in public
and private for a succession of years, and
then see if she is not equally endowed with
man and prepared to bear her part on all
general questions socially, politically, in-
dustrially and educationally as well as
spiritually.
	S. L. City, Aug. 21st, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

AN INCOMPLETE CENTENNIAL.

	But the ceremonies were incomplete.
Some Frenchman,—if possible, a soldier of
the Republic, should have stood shoulder to
shoulder with orator and poet, bearing his
witness that the old charter is a living let-
ter at the century's close.
	And again, there was incompleteness, but
there was fitness, perhaps, in the omission.
The magnificent chorus that alone gave ex-
pression to the opening day, the chorus
which owes its existence to Philadelphia
women, was absent from the ceremonial of
the Fourth. Created by the energy and
musical taste of the Women's Committees,
there was something typical in the fact of
its absence. A hundred years ago, Abi-
gail Adams, the wife of one President and
mother of another, was writing to her hus-
band. "I long to hear that you have de-
clared an independency. And, by the way,
in the new code of laws which I suppose it
will be necessary for you to make, I desire
you would remember the ladies, and be more
generous and favorable to them than their
ancestors were. Do not put such unlimited
power into the hands of the husbands." And
again in another letter,—"I cannot say I
think you are very generous, for while you
are proclaiming peace and good-will to men,
emancipating all nations, you insist upon
retaining absolute power over wives."
	The women of the Centennial Commit-
tees have had three years of education.
Their services have been sought, their as-
sistance invited, the profits of their hard
work have been given to build up the en-
terprise, yet not unfrequently has the snub
been administered, reminding them that
the old century men, still claim "absolute
power" over them and their belongings.
They may have had feeble powers of reas-
oning, it is true, when they began to work,
but in the severe school of adverse decis-
ions and continual subordination, their per-
ceptive faculties have grown and widened.
They refuse any longer to accept palaver in
the place of justice. Resolutions of thanks
is one thing, recognition is another.
	If they apply the experience gained in
judging of some other matters, the school
of their training must shoulder the respon-
sibility. They fail to perceive why the
Michigan woman, who settles upon govern-
ment acres, preempts her little farm by cul-
tivating it, making a home for her child-
ren and her drunken husband, is denied
the privilege of ownership, which that hus-
band could have obtained at the govern-
ment's hands any day he was sober enough
to claim it. To make out her title to these
acres her own hand had planted and sown,
it was necessary for the United States Sen-
ator to tell her whole sad story to his fel-
lows, and by a special act of Congress ena-
ble her to own what she had paid for to the
United States. The beautiful discrimina-
tions of the law, which forces the hard-
working wife to wait for special legislation,
dragging the sad circumstances of her life
into public discussion, must be encouraging
to other married women, driven by hard
necessity to make homes for themselves
and children.
	Again, we fail to understand also, if it
was highest virtue, in Boston men, a cen-
tury ago, to throw into the harbor tea that
did not belong to them, because they would
pay no taxes without their own consent,
why should it be the best kind of a joke
when two ladies of Connecticut, who own
more property in their township than ten of
their neighbors, shall refuse any longer to
pay taxes, thereupon, unless granted some

[COLUMN 2]

power in spending, for the township's good,
the rates levied upon them, which their un-
taxed neighbors have full disposal of. We
fail to perceive the logic that makes the
tea-chest a heroic emblem, while the year-
ly sales by the sheriff, from the Glastonbury
farm are newspaper jokes from Maine to
Georgia.
	Again, Abigail Adams was happily mar-
ried, but she had the courage to speak for
other women less favored. She could look
out from her secure shelter by her hus-
band's side, and see how other mothers suf-
fered at the hands of the law. So long as
the law, now, as then, gives to the father
absolute power over his child, the power to
send it whithersoever he will, away from
its mother, standing faithfully at his side,
the power to will it with his dying breath,
into other care and guidance than hers, no
wonder that this far-sighted woman of the
Revolution told the men of the day, that
they were ungenerous and cruel. The wo-
men of '76 ponder these things in their
hearts. They rejoice with unfailing grati-
tude, at the victories won, the difficulties
conquered, and the power and freedom the
old century has brought, with its declara-
tion of rights to all men; they look wist-
fully into the new, requiring that it shall
give unto them also; some surer ground to
stand upon than the shifting sands of for-
tune, and the caprice or indulgence of the
law-making sex—New Century for Women.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

DEATH IN THE NURSING BOTTLES.

	The following we clip, by request, from an old
number of the Scientific American. The subject
thereof is of such vital interest to all mothers; that
we would advise them to read carefully and profit
by the same.
	"But there is a prolific source of infant
mortality, to which we wish now to direct
special attention, namely the patent nursing bot-
tle. It consists of a rubber tube, one end of
which is held in the child's mouth; the other end,
passing through a cork, is attached to a glass rod
which descends to the bottom of a bottle of so-
called milk. We might write a page on the dan-
gers that reside in the milk, unless special care has
been taken to obtain fresh, or by suitably diluting
pure condensed milk. But this danger is well
known, and our business at present is with the
bottle, or rather its dirty tube, which should nev-
er be used more than once, then thrown away and
a new one bought.
	Even when new, these white tubes, impregna-
ted as they are with oxide of zinc, are not unobject-
ionable: far worse are they when saturated with
sour milk, germs of putrefaction, decay and dis-
ease. Some of these child-murdering, Yankee
inventions have reached Berlin, and have called
forth the following from a practising physician of
that city:
	"The supposed advantage of these bottles con-
sists in this, that they can be placed beside the in-
fant in bed, while other bottles must be held in
the hand all the time. What sensible mother or
nurse would leave a child with a bottle without
watching it? The danger of the bottle consists
in this, that it is absolutely impossible to cleanse
it. When sucked on, little particles of milk be-
come attached to the tube and cork; these curdle
and soon turn sour. If some of this deposit be
placed under a microscope, we see innumerable
bacteria, organic beings which indicate decomposi-
tion and decay. At every meal the child draws
in thousands of these germs. The decomposing
process acts upon what it finds in the mouth,
æsophagus, and stomach, and the result is diar-
rhea, cholera infantum, etc. I will here express-


ly remark that the usual method of placing the
apparatus in water, or merely rinsing it out with a
stream of water, is in no way sufficient. Some
dealers sell a suitable little wire brush with the
bottle, but even this does not answer the purpose,
for the apparatus is not clean by a long way after
drawing the brush through it several times; and
who will take the trouble to clean it so thoroughly
eight or ten times a day? How much time it
would require! Another disadvantage is that the
bottle is air tight, and a partial vacuum is formed,
which renders sucking so difficult as to exhaust
the child, and it stops before its hunger is satis-
fied. Hence, parents, ye who are compelled to
feed your children with a bottle, throw away this
apparatus, which can only bring destruction upon
your children, and either select a bottle with glass
mouthpiece, which is filled from below, or take a
large rubber mouthpiece, which is perforated by
a small hole and can be drawn directly over the
neck of the glass bottle. This large mouthpiece or
nipple can readily be turned inside out and thor-
oughly cleaned and rubbed with dry salt."
	After reading the above, we sorrowfully ac-
knowledge that our own experience warrants us in
saying, that many infants, children of parents re-
siding in Salt Lake City, and Utah Territory,
have succumbed to cholera infantum, as a result of
using the Patent Nursing Bottles above referred
to, and the heading thereof is true that there is
"Death in the nursing bottle."			C. S.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Glue.—A teaspoonful of saltpetre added to a
large potful of glue will effectually prevent it from
smelling; besides, it causes it to dry faster and
harder than it would without it.
	A New Mucilage.—The Journal de Pharmacie
states that if, to a strong solution of gum arabic,
measuring eight and a half fluid ozs., a solution of
thirty grains sulphate of aluminum dissolved in
two thirds of an ounce of water should be added,
this makes a very strong mucilage, capable of fas-
tening wood together, or of mending porcelain or
glass.
	Apples Pickles:—Quarter and core the apples,
then steam them until a fork will go through
them readily. Make a syrup of sugar and vine-
gar and pour over them while it is hot. Stick a
clove or two into each quarter. Seven lbs. of ap-
ples prepared to three lbs. of sugar and one pint
of vinegar are good proportions.
	Drop Cakes:—One teacupful of cream; one of
sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, a pinch of salt,
two teacupsful of flour, two tablespoonsful of su-
gar with one egg stirred well together, and drop-
ped from the spoon into a dripper well buttered.


LATE MARRIAGES:—It is greatly to be
regretted that young people are reluctant
to marry because they cannot at once set
up house-keeping in an expensive or stylish
manner. Society as a whole is seriously
endangered by these absurd and false ideas
of social economy, and late marriages have
become largely characteristic of modern so-
cial life. Young love if true and godly
will make early struggles wholesome and
joyous, and let not the prudence of such a
question be pressed too hard; if a young
man has a position that will enable him to
marry with ordinary carefulness, and if he
has found a woman, who he believes will
make his home happy, and be a true com-
panion, let him marry and take her to a
humble home, let them practise such econ-
omy as is consistent with their circumstan-
ces. It will discipline them in the right
path and give them an experience they
could never have gained in affluence. Life
will be the better for it and fortune more
acceptable and more wisely disposed should
prosperity beam upon them and success at-
tend their efforts.


56		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	OF all the celebrated lovers of George
Sand, two only survive—Jules Sandeau,
the first love of that passionate, undiscip-
lined heart, and Prince Napoleon. Jules
Sandeau, who is the first novelist who ever
gained by reason of his novels alone a fau-
teuil at the Academy, is still a very fine-
looking man, bald-headed and stout it is
true, but still of a pleasant and comely pres-
ence, and of peculiarly graceful and win-
ning manners even for a Frenchman.
	DIFFERENT TYPES OF THE REINDEER:
—Mr. Lamont, an English sportsman and
member of Parliament, who has made
many summer yacht voyages to the Arctic
seas, says that the reindeer in Nova Zem-
bla is much larger and wilder than in Spitz-
bergen, and he is disposed to believe that
the smaller and tamer variety found in the
latter island is allied to the reindeer of Nor-
way and Lapland. As these animals are
noted for their wandering habits, Mr. La-
mont conjectures that they may have
made their way originally into both is-
lands from the continent, over seas not usu-
ally frozen, but which then happened to be
so. It is a curious fact, however, that al-
though Nova Zembla is much nearer the
continent of Europe than Spitzbergen is,
the reindeer there is of the wild and large
American type, while those of Spitzbergen
more nearly correspond to the European
variety.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	A few words of exhortation especially to
the young, praying to the Lord to direct
my thoughts that I might through the me-
dium of the EXPONENT bear my testimony
and add my voice to that of my sisters and
co-workers in the great work of educating
the young and rising generation spiritu-
ally; we look forward to them, to take their
part in assisting to establish the kingdom of
God upon the earth, and my prayer is that
the Lord will bless them with wisdom and
power to overcome everything which is op-
posed to the kingdom of God, and that they
may carefully guard themselves against
the temptations of the adversary and be
prepared for the great changes that are
about to take place here on this earth, even
the coming of our Lord and Savior–Oh
that we may be prepared to behold him
with joy in the Temple of the Lord. Then
let us endeavor to become sufficiently pure,
that we may become saviors of our dead
friends who cannot be made perfect with-
out us, or we without them; let us consider
how anxiously they are waiting for us to
do our part.
	I pray mightily to the Lord to bless me
with wisdom to do my duty, that I may
have joy. And it is the desire of my
heart that I may know the duties I should
perform for those who are gone behind the
veil without having the opportunity which
has been granted to me.
	Sisters let us live our religion, be true to
our covenants, and faithful in observing
counsel.
					JEMIMA BROWN.
	20th Ward, S. L. City.


"BROTHER, why don't you ask the stran-
ger to pray?" "Because," reprovingly ob-
served the deacon, "this ain't no place for
practical jokes. That man's the president
of a gas company.".


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	STEEL which has received the hardest
temper takes the strongest magnetization
	A BOILING Lake is reported to have
been discovered in the Island of Dominica,
in a mountainous region, 2,500 feet above
the level of the sea.
	M. JAMIN, treating upon magnets, says
he has proved that a bundle of thin steel
plates is stronger than a single steel bar of
the same dimensions, the proportion in-
creasing indefinitely with the number of
plates.
	MR. Lamont, the Arctic sportsman, in
speaking of the transmission of sound by
water, says "I am perfectly sure that vibra-
tions of a boat striking against the ice-edge
are conveyed a distance of two or more
miles. Directly the boat comes in contact
with the ice every seal for miles around
raises his head and is on the alert.
	MULTIPLEX TELEGRAPHY: Recent ex-
periments have proved it is possible for two
messages to be simultaneously passed
through a single wire called "duplex tele-
graphy;" and experiments have also been
made in "quadruplex telegraphy;" in one
instance an experiment was successfully
carried out, whereby eight messages were
sent simultaneously from each end of a
wire two hundred miles in length.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
