VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1876.	NO. 9.


GREETING.

Spread, spread the tables wide—a feast prepare,
Of bounteous blessings, wholesome, sweet and rare.
Bring fruits and flowers, bring every beauteous thing,
And bread the staff of life, in plenty bring:
Bring ye of costlier tokens to impart,
The purest, richest treasures of the heart.
Bring joyous greetings, smiles and cheerful faces:
Bring tender words and kisses and embraces:
Bring friendship and its holy offspring love;
Bring all fair graces that are born above,
Bring truth to speak from every lip and eye—
Bring sounding praises to the Great Most High!
Sing to His name a grateful, happy lay,
Who hath to us returned this welcome day;
Our Parents still both living in the flesh,
Their spirits quickened, hearts and memories fresh.
Now forty years they've journeyed on together.
'Mid storms and sunshine and uncertain weather;
But what to them the sunshine or the shade,
They still press on, undaunted, undismayed.
They do not live for Mammon nor its cause,
The world's opinion, flatt'ry or applause,
Their aim is higher, their reward more sure,
Hence they afford life's crosses to endure.
And while they thus, the way of life are threading,
Custom would call this day their "Ruby Wedding!"
Rubies and gems we have not to bestow,
Nor aught of glittering brilliancy or show,
But bring we each a holier offering.
Father and mother see ! our souls we bring,
Laden with gratitude to God and you.
Who hath ordained and taught them to be true!
True to the work which will at length prepare
The faithful in Celestial wealth to share.
We'll all be there, your daughters and your sons,
Lovely and brave, with Mates and little ones.
Friends will your mansions crowd, this day at least,
They'l come in myriads to your glorious feast;
And who shall say but there, with all the rest,
Our Father God may be your honored guest?
Granting you blessings, while we sing His Praise,
And gladly celebrate this day of days.
	Ulala.
Aug. 29th, 1875.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
	LOVE OF THE BEAUTIFUL IN
				NATURE.

	Ever since I was a wee little girl with
rosy cheeks and clusters of bright, brown,
wavy hair (that never would lie smooth,) I
have had a passionate love for the great
out-spread book of nature. I have wander-
ed dreamily for hours "in childhood's days"
through the grand old forests in the vicin-
ity of my New England home, never lonely,
sitting down here and there on the beds of
moss fashioned like cushioned seats upon
some fantastically shaped rock, or the gnarl-
ed trunk of fallen trees, listening to the
songs of birds, and the incessant monotony
of the woodpecker, gazing now and then
up through the leafy branches, catching a
glimpse of the azure above, watching the
rays of light as they shimmered and flashed
through the leaves, adding new brilliancy
to the variegated coloring, as they trem-
bled and swayed with the soft breezes, and
the boughs waving gracefully towards each
other as though embracing tenderly, and
whispering inarticulately in an under-tone,
seemingly a language of reciprocal affection.
	There were always volumes of unwritten
poetry for me in the woodlands and mead-
ows, and in the sparkling brooks with their
shining pebbly depths; and in haunts of
forest shades and falling waters, enthusias-
tically I have drank in, in rich, exhilarat-
ing, inspiring draughts nature's beauty and

[Column 2]
glory, and intuitively I seemed to under-
stand that God was in and over all.
	O how the pealing voices of memory
ring down into my heart, the recollection
of the weird land of the past, whenever I
wander forth among wild, romantic scenery,
or fresh, green pastures, babbling brooks,
deep, winding rivers, or any of the diversi-
ties of nature's grandeur and magnificence,
which insensibly strike the silent chord of
response in my bosom. There is something
inexplicably attractive in the association
with mountains, glens, canyons and forests,
and it calls forth the purest and happiest
emotions, elevating and stimulating the fac-
ulties of thought and reflection and irresist-
ibly leads the soul to the Fountain of all
beauty, of all intelligence. If would one
bring from the deepest recesses of the soul
the richest gems of thought, the most bril-
liant ideas, and clothe them in the choicest
language, let that person go out among the
wildest haunts of nature undisturbed; these
beauties have an inspiration and speak to
the soul in their own simple, unmistakable
language, breathing audibly the music of a
Creator's voice. The grandest parlors with
all the appliances of modern luxury may
lull the senses to rest and wrap the soul in
soft, dreamy raptures, but can never call
forth the intense emotion, the soul-thrilling
ecstasies of thought, that will shape them-
selves into language to touch the hearts of
thousands, opening up great avenues of
sympathetic feeling, like the association
with the wild haunts where the splashing
waterfall foams and dashes, and the snow-
crested mountains tower above, like the
giant kings of some palatial domain.
	It is good for us all at times to leave the
dust and din of city life behind us, and for-
getting the daily cares of every-day life,
which so tax the physical strength, and
harass the mind, go for a little season into
some quiet country nook, nestled among
the hills, where we can think, where we
can rest, where we will be free to act our-
selves, unnoticed by Madame Grundy. We
recruit, we add vigor to our life and
zest to our enjoyments by this means, and
if only for a day, we breathe another at-
mosphere, and it helps us to gather fresh-
ness and activity, quickens our pulses and
strengthens our nerves.
	My intense admiration for the beautiful
helps me perhaps to appreciate a ride, or a
walk where there is always something new
and attractive, and I beg pardon if I over-
estimate the advantages to be derived from
such resources. To me, they are ever an
inexhaustible fund of enjoyment, and I
never look upon them without contrasting
them with similar scenes of the "long ago."
Then I was wont to build castles in the air,
to indulge in all sorts of dreamy fancies,
and embody all sorts of childish ideas in
silly rhyme and rustic prose, and I am
afraid that in this one speciality I am a
child yet, although grown up people will
persist in calling me,
						AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Sep. 19, 1876.


MISS Anna Dickinson has accumulated
quite a fortune by lecturing, and yet she
has been extremely generous in dispensing
to others.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GENERAL NEWTON'S little girl, Mary,
not quite three years old, fired the mine
that blew Hallett's Point Reef to pieces. A
most remarkable incident certainly in the
life of a little child.
	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will hold their Eighth, Annual
Meeting in Philadelphia, on Monday and
Tuesday, Oct. 2, and 3, morning, afternoon
and evening sessions. The public are in-
vited, a[-]d auxiliary State and local socie-
ties are considered entitled to send dele-
gates according to the respective delega-
tions of their States. President, Mary A.
Livermore, Secretary, Alice C. Fletcher.
	THE FOURTH Woman's Congress will be
held at Philadelphia Oct. 4, 5, and 6, in St.
George's Hall, daily sessions twice, also
evening sessions. In this Congress will be
assembled many of the most superior wo-
men of the present age, working with un-
tiring zeal and earnestness for reformation
in public and private. Maria Mitchell will
preside.
	IT HAS been proposed to flood the desert
of Sahara. Mr. McKenzie, the projector,
with an engineering party, is about to make
the necessary surveys for turning the wa-
ters of the Atlantic into the great desert.
He is confident that a canal eight or nine
miles long will accomplish the object, flood-
ing the low lands and bringing Timbuctoo
within navigable distance of the sea, open-
ing up a vast trade with the interior of Af-
rica which is the great inducement.
	THE MINISTER of Public Instruction, Mr.
Waddington, proposes an entire reorganiza-
tion of State Education in France. His
scheme embraces primary, secondary, and
university education, making the first com-
pulsory, and for that purpose he asks an ex-
tra grant of five million francs; and looks to
the departments, and communes for fifteen
million francs more. This is in direct op-
position to the scheme adopted by the
French Assembly last year, and of which
the Roman Catholic Church has so vigor-
ously availed itself. The plan is strongly
opposed by the Roman Catholic universities
and their party.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MADAME Louis Blanc, who died recently
in Paris, must have been very lovable, as it
is said tens of thousands followed her re-
mains to the cemetery.
	MISS Anna Oliver, the young preacher,
is filling with characteristic dignity, an en-
gagement at the First Place Methodist
Church in Brooklyn.
	MISS Tora Dutt, a young Hindoo lady,
has just published a book of translations of
French verse into English. Critics praise,
and esteem it as an item "in the history of
the progress of culture."
	"SHELLS FROM THE SANDS OF TIME,"
is the title of a book written by Lady Lyt-
ton, (widow of Lord Lytton the author) in
which she comments upon modern servants
"stuckapativeness."


66		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday Sept. 16, 1876, was presided over
by Mrs. W. East, but during the meeting
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Counselors
Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. E. Howard ar-
rived from Tooele where they had been vis-
iting in the interests of the Societies. Af-
ter the minutes of the last meeting and
from the several wards represented had
been read, Mrs. W. East spoke upon obedi-
ence, fashion and the principles of Celestial
Marriage; referred to Bro. George Q. Can-
non's remarks in the Sunday School Union,
exhorting the teachers upon teaching that
subject.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow referred to
her absence from the meetings on account
of her duties at the Ladies Fair; said she
had enjoyed the spirit of God while en-
gaged there, spoke of home-industries and
the necessity of becoming self-sustaining as
a people. She spoke of her absence from
these meetings having been similar to a
long fast, but that the last week she had
been feasting. On Tuesday, of that week,
she met with the Society at Mill Creek,
Wednesday in the 20th Ward, Thursday
morning with Sisters Horne and Howard,
started for Tooele, where they held a gen-
eral meeting in the afternoon; Friday they
had another general meeting of brethren
and sisters. She had enjoyed the time
very much; exhorted the sisters to punctu-
ality and improvement; remarked the great
blessings that would attend the faithful.
Mrs. M. E. Watmough then spoke upon
the subject of elections, and the neglect of
the sisters on this point, also in regard to
teaching the children as they grew up
every pure principle and duty. Mrs. M. I.
Horne expressed her pleasure in being able
to meet with the sisters again, spoke upon
the principles of marriage, and the superi-
or blessings conferred by the higher law of
marriage which has been revealed in this
last day, also upon seri-culture, and elections,
and their visit to Tooele.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard impressed up-
on the sisters the necessity of using decor-
um, and teaching it to their children, and
advised them to remember this subject in
the coming Conference, it would add to the
good order and quiet of the meetings, in
large assemblies particularly.

	HYDE PARK, CACHE Co., Sep. 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society met July 18th, for the
purpose of organizing a Retrenchment As-
sociation. Our Bishop was present and gave
us some excellent advice; after which a few
of the sisters made suitable remarks and
the young ladies were organized with the
following officers:
	Sarah James President,
	Ellen Woolf,		}
	Celia Woolf,		}
	Permelia Drury,	}	Counselors.
	Lizzie Thurston,	}
	Rose Hyde,		}
	Orrilla Woolf,	}
	Mary Burnham, Sec'y.,
	Kate Perks, Assistant Sec'y.,
	Rosanna Hurren, Treas.
	We have about forty members, have
made resolutions similar to many that have
been published. The girls all feel pleased
with the arrangement and are energetic in
the work. We hold our meetings once a
week, and should be so glad to have some of

[Column 2]
our sisters from Salt Lake come and talk to
us. We intend to try and live up to our
resolutions and improve day by day. Your
paper is read in our meetings, and we could
not well do without it. Praying God to
bless every effort made for its circulation,
we are
		Yours Truly,
			MARY S. BURNHAM Sec.
				KATE PERKS Ass't. sec.

		ST. CHARLES, Sept. 15th,, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the Annual Celebration of the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
held in St. Charles, Sep. 6th, '76, just one
year from their organization. Proceedings
commenced at 10 a. m. with singing "Oh ye
mountains high," by the Retrenchment
choir, Opening prayer by Bishop Budge,
singing, "Hard Times come again no
more"—
	The Annual Report was read by the Sec-
retary; items as follows:
	Retrenchment Association of St. Charles,
organized Sept. 6th, 1875, with President,
eight Counselors, a Business Manager or
Superintendent, Secretary, and twenty-sev-
en members. Have held twenty-four meet-
ings and had one party, the proceeds of
which was forwarded to Miss E. R. Snow to
help defray the expenses of the Ladies Fair
at Salt Lake City.
	Then followed select reading and recita-
tions, also singing and music. Speeches
were then made by Pres't. Rich, Bishops
Budge and Hunt; they thought the young
ladies had made great improvement during
one year, said they would be pleased to
meet with them a year from that time, and
see if there would be such a marked im-
provement at the close of another year, as
there had been at this. Meeting was then
adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. Closing
hymn, "We thank Thee O God for a Pro-
phet"—Benediction by Bishop Hunt.
	We met again at 2. p. m., and commenced
dancing, had songs and recitations at inter-
vals. At five the hall was cleared and ta-
bles arranged for supper. A committee of
six young ladies appointed waited on the
tables, dressed in costumes to represent a
hundred years ago; there were two tables
the length of the hall and about 50 persons
seated at each. Thanks were offered by
Pres't. C. C. Rich; the supper was a com-
plete success and all passed off pleasantly.
When the tables were removed, dancing re-
commenced. The committee danced in
their costumes the rest of the evening,
which created a great deal of mirth; about
8 o'clock in the evening Pres't. Rich made
a few remarks, expressing that it had been
altogether an enjoyable affair; then he with
Bishop Budge, bade the company good
night and started for their home in Paris.
The dance was closed at 11 o'clock in the
evening, all retired feeling-that the spirit
of God had been with them.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and have in each select reading from the
EXPONENT.
			LIZZIE M. PUGMIRE, Sec'y.

	DEWEYVILLE, BOX ELDER Co.,
						Sept. 6th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Relief Socie-
ty of this place was held in the School-
House, Aug. 9th. There were present, Pres-
ident J. C. Dewey, of this place, and Pres-
idents' Harriet and Minnie Snow of Brig-
ham City. They spoke words of encour-

[Column 3]
agement to the sisters and exhorted them
to be united and live their religion. The
report of our last years' proceedings was
read; after which Pres. Mary Dewey made
a few remarks. The present officers are
as follows:
	Mary Dewey, President,
	Heneretta Call,	}	Counselors
	Althea Lewis,	}
	Eliza Howard, Secretary,
	Matilda Lish Treasurer.
	There is a small amount of means in the
treasury, and we hope to do more in the
next year than we have done in the past;
some of the sisters have united and are
saving the eggs their hens lay on Sundays
for the Temple. We meet once a week and
have good meetings, and those who attend
them regularly, feel well and are desirous
of doing all they can to help the work along.
We have been organized one year and we
know how to appreciate the blessings of a
Society. Your excellent paper is read in
our meetings with great interest.
	With best wishes for the advancement of
every good work, we remain your sisters,
&c.
			MARY DEWEY, Pres.
				ELIZA HOWARD, Sec.

		WELLSVILLE, CACHE CO.,
						Sep. 12, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of this place, was held July 11th '76.
Our financial matters for the past year are
as follows:
	Disbursements to the needy... $ 85 19
	To Mrs. Romania Pratt and .....
		Centennial Flag..................    15 00
	Towards building Society House. 59 49
	Sundries.....................................     40 92
				Total.................... $ 200 60
	In the Treasury.......................... $     5 45
	Temple clothes, and Sundries..     91 30
	Shares in Co-op Institutions.....   118 25
				Total....................... 215 00
	We had a good meeting, the Spirit of
God prevailed in a marked degree. Act-
ing Bishop Jardine who was present, en-
couraged us by his wise exhortations to
continue faithful in our honorable and
holy mission, in striving to alleviate suf-
fering among the children of our Great
Parent. Several of the Sisters then arose
and bore testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel as taught by the Latter-day Saints.
We expect to finish our Relief Society
House this fall, it was commenced last
Spring and the outside work is now com-
pleted, thanks to the brethren and sisters
who generously donated for that purpose; it
is a splendid structure, being composed of
three rooms; a large one running east and
west, 30 by 15 ft., and a room at each side
14 by 12, the large room will be dedicated
to meetings and quiltings. One of the
small rooms is intended for a store, the
other for various purposes. This good piece
of work was the suggestion of our worthy
Bishop, Wm. H. Maughan ere he went on
his mission.
	Success to the EXPONENT and every en-
terprise that has for its object the good of
the human family.
	Yours in the Gospel of Peace,
			ELLEN WHITON, Pres.
				LUCY HA[-]LAM, Sec.


INK is the black sea on which thought
rides at anchor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
THE MAGIC OF MUSICAL ECHOES. 

There's a strain of music floats on the breeze,
	And its echoes, the rhythm of fairies tell,
And mingling with notes of the sighing trees
	It enchants the soul with a weird-like spell.
And the sweetest visions of long ago
	Are afloat on the summer breeze again,
And we pause as we think of time's swift flow,
	And we listen to catch the sad refrain.
The thoughts that come with that musical strain
	Bring the past enwrapt in a mystic light—
And the halo of memory once again,
	Beams dim o'er our path on a moonlit night—
Away in the shadowy, hazy past,
	Ere clouds had darkened the azure skies;
Our pulses were quick, and our hearts beat fast,
	And earth in its beauty, seem'd Paradise.
The tender chords of the heart may be stirr'd
	By a sweet strain of music soft, and low,
Repeating the echoes that erst were heard
	From the depths of the years of long ago.
A lingering sweetness of cherish'd hours,
	Sweeps through our lives as we journey along,
As delicate perfume from fragrant flowers,
	Or the melody of some long lost song,
Which wake in our soul where remembrance stays,
	The joys which e'en time can never outlive;
And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days
A nameless charm does their influence give. 
	EMILE. 
S. L. City, Sept. 27, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I want a little talk with our girls, and I do
not know of a better opportunity than
through the columns of the EXPONENT. I
love them all, bless their dear hearts, and
the boys too. I love to see them inno-
cent, intelligent and beautiful. They can
all be so, yes every one of them. No mat-
ter if nature has not endowed them with
faces that are most attractive to the casual
observer, they may cultivate sweet tempers
and pleasant dispositions, until they will ob-
tain the admiration and respect of all who
are associated with them, and to those who
know their true value, their faces will beam
with grace and beauty. Sons and daugh-
ters of Zion, you are destined, if you so
will it, to fill high places in the world's
honor and esteem. A life of usefulness is
before you. The foundation is laid where-
on you can rear the walls of a goodly edi-
fice, and your names may shine forth in the
annals of history, brilliant as the sun at
noonday. You may be classed with the no-
blest genius of the age, and your names
handed down to posterity emblazoned in
letters, brilliant as of gold; or, they may be
held up to your fellow countrymen as ex-
amples of degradation and shame. It lies
with yourselves to choose your path, and to
walk therein. Let truth, modesty and vir-
tue be your standard, let your lives be open
to investigation, that all your actions may
bear the strictest scrutiny without calling a
blush to your cheek. Then no stain or
blemish will rest upon your characters and
the good you strive for will not be thrown
back as a mockery. Every woman should
guard her virtue as she would her life, that
no tarnish may rest on her fair fame. It is
a duty she owes, not only to herself, but to
her friends and to unborn generations. How
often are parents hearts bowed down and
their lives shortened by the reckless and
unwise course of their children. I often
think, when I see some broken-hearted
mother, mourning over the disgraceful con-
duct of her children, how heartless and
hardened they must be to cause so much
sorrow. If they have no regard for their
own honor or welfare, they might, at least,
respect the parents who reared them, who
would suffer and lay down their lives for

[COLUMN 2]

them if need be, and for THEIR sakes keep
themselves pure and unblemished. For
the sisters who love them, and whose pros-
pects in life may be blighted through no in-
discretion of their own, but through the
recklessness and ill conduct of those who
should, and do profess to love them. They
not only injure themselves, but they do an
irreparable wrong to those who are bound
to them by the tenderest ties of relation-
ship. Then I would say to my young
friends, be watchful and prayerful lest in
some unguarded moment the enemy should
take advantage, and a rash act be commit-
ted that can never, never be recalled. No
tears, sorrow, or repentance, no remorse,
however deep, can give back to a woman
her lost chastity. No atonement can erase
the blemish on her fair fame. She brings
upon herself a lifetime of agonies, of suffer-
ing and repentance.
	She not only loses her own respect, but
she loses the respect, and outrages the feel-
ings of her friends and kindred, and be-
queathes to her children a legacy of shame.
How must a young man or woman of intel-
ligence and high principles feel to bear the
brand of illegitimacy? Who can imagine
the agony of outraged feelings, when the
disgraceful information comes to them as it
is apt to do sooner or later. Could they be
blamed if they turned with loathing from
the parents they had learned to love and
reverence? Thus do, misdeeds follow the
perpetrator as long as life continues.
	And what of the man that could cause
all this sorrow and despair? Can he pass
without spot or blemish? Not by any means.
He should be marked for execration, held
up as a thing too foul for the companionship
of modesty and virtue. Man who is strong
in his passions, in his love and affections,
should be strong also in honor and self-con-
trol. He should look on every woman as a
mother or a sister, and guard her honor as
he would her life, with his own if need be.
What man would not strike down the
wretch who by violence would harm a de-
fenseless woman. How much more should
he be struck down who would insinuate
himself into her kind feelings, win her af-
fections, and in an unguarded moment, steal
from her the honor that is more sacred to
her than her life. No words can describe
the execration we should feel for such a vil-
lain, his life is not too much to pay the for-
feit. But, says one, does not marriage make
reparation? Yes, a poor pitiful reparation,
but not restoration. It cannot erase the
blemish from her crown of virtue, nor re-
store to her the happiness and innocence of
her maidenhood. Such marriages are al-
ways incomplete, and often unhappy. Ev-
ery man prefers taking to his home a pure
and unsullied bride, and he will not give
honor to those of tarnished name even
though he himself is the cause of it. Neith-
er will he give the same respect and con-
fidence to a woman whose purity he knows
to be of such doubtful texture.
	Girls, guard your virtue as with a wall of
adamant, and do not even countenance the
man who does not hold virtue sacred, shun
him as you would the viper that is seeking
your heart's blood. Do not let love plead
his cause, for he is unworthy the name of
love, much less the affection of a pure and
honorable woman. Give heed to the coun-
sel of your friends, and let your language
and manners be modest and refined. Let
all your thoughts be pure and holy. Cast
aside all books and papers that are calcula-
ted to influence the emotions in a wrong di-
rection or contaminate the mind. Shun the
companionship of the vulgar and unprinci-

[COLUMN 3]

pled, allow no undue familiarity in any of
your communications, and you will never
have cause for repentance.
	MARY.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		OGDEN CITY, Aug. 29th, 1876.
	I wish to say a few words through
your valuable paper; thoughts suggested by
reading an article in the "Sacramento
Daily Union;" it is headed "THE TWO PRO-
PHETS."
	I know that this Gospel is true, and so do
thousands of my sisters, and we wish the
world to understand that we know it is the
church and kingdom of God. In the above
named article the question is asked, "What
will be the situation in Utah on the death
of Brigham Young? The answer, by Joseph
Smith Jr., is this: "I THINK there will be
nothing to hold the people together on
Young's demise." I can answer this ques-
tion according to knowledge and not on a
mere think so. I know that this is the
kingdom of God, and that it will never be
thrown down or given to another people,
but will stand forever; it came not of man
or the will of man, but from God our Eter-
nal Father, and it is His cause and His
work. Mr. Smith's statement in regard to
our leaders and their principles, as well as
their actual lives, are altogether false; and
it is hard work to read, and not attempt to
refute such imputations.
	There are many thousands in comforta-
ble homes through the wise management of
Brigham Young, and the blessing of God
our Heavenly Father, and I am one of
those. It also says we are compelled to
pay the tithing. I answer I have always
paid tithing, but never been compelled to
do so, I have done it from my own free will
and choice, because I knew it to be a com-
mandment of God, and binding upon His
people. It also says that what we term
Celestial Marriage is a heresy. I say it is
a commandment of God to His people, and
the Bible will sanction me in this declara-
tion. Father Abraham practiced this doc-
trine, also Jacob, and God talked with them
face to face," and to Moses and many others.
To the pure all things are pure. Joseph
Smith Jr., calls it immoral and unclean and
says he has fought against it. I am sorry
to hear of any one fighting against it, for
those who will do so will become as dark as
midnight, and will lose the Spirit of God,
if they ever had it.
	We are witnesses for our Father's cause
and kingdom, whether the world believe
us or not, and our witness will stand against
them at the great day of accounts; it will
be a saviour of life unto life, and death un-
to death. Then O let us be valiant my dear
sisters in testimony and witness for God and
His kingdom; I am proud of the EXPONENT
for this purpose.
	I am your sister in the Gospel,
						ELLEN MCKAY.


The steel that has suffered most is the best steel.
It has been in the furnace again and again, it has
been on the anvil; it has been tight in the jaws of
the vice; it has felt the teeth of the rasp; it has
been ground by emery; it has been heated and
hammered and filed, until it does not know itself,
and it comes out a splendid knife. And, if men
only knew it what are called their "misfortunes"
are God's best blessings, for they are the molding
influences which give them shapeliness and edge,
and durability and power,


68		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WEELS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
[-]ast streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. [-]1, 1876.


NOTICE.

	We would say to our agents and subscrib-
ers that our terms to clubs are the same as
heretofore, no change having been made;
but we withdrew the article (Club Rates) as
our paper is small and we thought it suffi-
ciently understood; had any change been
made our agents and the public would have
been apprised of it.


THE POWER OF MAMMON.

	That money is the ruling power of the age,
has become proverbial. No matter how supe-
rior one may be in morals, or attainments, in
innate generosity of mind, or chivalry of char-
acter, custom will not exempt him from bow-
ing on the altar of Mammon.
	In this age of professed culture and refine-
ment, when all the accumulated erudition of
the ages of the past has concentrated itself in-
to one grand avalanche of knowledge and
showered itself in rich profusion to grace the
crowning era of worldly wisdoms, strange that
men and women should not inherit and pos-
sess more strength of principle and of charac-
ter, than to yield to this fascinating, all-absorb-
ing influence of the power of gold. It is a 
baneful deterioration to society, leading to all
sorts of stratagems and expediences to keep up
appearances that are false and shallow.
	The majority of people have not the cour-
age to live within their actual resources, be-
cause if they do, those whose companionship
they are desirous of retaining will "cut" them.
And for such flimsy reasons they ignore all
true pride of character, and become virtually
slaves in bondage to custom, or to the tyrant
money. They must maintain their position
and keep up a certain style—and at whose ex-
pense? In many instances not their own.
	Where is the change to begin, the great re-
formation, how will it commence? Sim-
plicity in dress, in the style of living—that is,
of eating, drinking, visiting, giving entertain-
ments—in order to come down to some solid
basis is highly necessary, or sooner, or later
the final crash which all are trying to avoid by
shifting the burden from one's shoulder to an-
others will be inevitable. Otherwise it would
seem necessary for every person to come into
possession of a gold mine in order to live up to
the style of this fast age.
	To listen only for a few minutes to the con-
versation of what is termed business men, one
cannot but draw the conclusion that money
has actually become the motive power that de-
termines the genuine value of every thing on 
earth.


What capital can a man possess to ensure
him permanant standing in modern society
without money? Honesty is apparently at a 
discount; will brains or mind avail him?
Not unless he can make practical use of 
them which will yeild a heavy percentage in 
hard coin. One would almost doubt whether a 
colossal mind would even call forth admira-
tion unless backed by a colossal fortune.
						[handwritten] E. B. Wel


NOTICE.

	A meeting of all the officers of the Relief
Societies and as many others as wish to attend
will be held on Wednesday, Oct. 4th, at 2
o'clock, p. m., in the Council House.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	Thursday Evening, Sept. 21, a Bishop's
meeting was held in the Council House build-
ing, at which time the house was dedicated
for the use of the Priesthood. Elder John
Taylor offered the dedicatory prayer.

	Mr. James Dwyer has gone East to pur-
chase a new and liberal stock of books and
holiday goods; and to attend the great Book
Fair at New York on the 25th of Oct.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre will open on the 5th
inst., and remain open during conference.
The first play presented upon the boards will
be "Through by Daylight" and Mr. Jim Ward
and Miss Winnetta Montague will play the
prinicipal parts.
	THE AMATEUR Dramatic Company who
have been playing for the benefit of Mrs. Ro-
mania Pratt, have succeeded well in Utah
County, having given good satisfaction, and
been renumerated financially, quite equal to
their expectations.
	UTAH MUSICAL TIMES.—We have received
the seventh number of this new magazine.
The editorial "Vocal Music in Schools," we
would recommend specially to the notice of all
interested in the cultivation and education of
the young. It also contains two very sweet
pieces of original music, one, composed by
Prof. Careless and the other, entitled "Prayer,"
by his wife.
	As a home paper, which contains items of
general interest, we take pleasure in recom-
mending the Ogden Junction, which has now
entered upon its fifth volume: as a local paper,
the citizens of Ogden and vicinity, have every
reason to be proud of it. It contains a vast
amount of real humor, and in this feature it is
particularly characteristic of the editor.
	THE MEETINGS, conventions etc, which are
being held in the interest of the coming elec-
tion, have been so far well attended, and good
order and quiet have been the rule. The elec-
tion of a Delegate to Congress to represent the
interests of the people in Utah, is an import-
ant subject, and the people, MEN and WOMEN,
who hold the right of franchise should be
prompt in exercising it to secure such a candi-
date as shall be qualified in all respects to pro
mote the best interests of the community.
	PORTLAND, SALT Lake, and South Pass rail-
road company, reorganized from the Portland,
Dallas and Salt Lake railroad company, in-
tend commencing to grade the road as soon as
the location is completed in Malad city. There
is a large corps of engineers in the field survey-
ing and locating the line. They intend to
complete the portion of the road to Malad city
and have it in running order by the 1st of
January. Colonel H. I. Chapman has charge
of the company's business and is forwarding
the work with great dispatch.
	The Deseret Silk Association will not hold
any meeting until sometime during the com-
ing conference, and then due public notice will
be given. It is expected that there will be a
great many of the brethren and sisters from
the country in the city then, and that all
those who are interested in seri-culture will at-
tend this meeting and such arrangements be
made, and instructions given, as shall awaken
increased interest, and promote the develop-
ment of this branch of home-industry. 

THE FORTY-SIXTH Semi-Annual Conference
is now very near: this people have been blest
in a most wonderful manner in establishing
themselves here in these vallies. This present
year there has been a bountiful harvest in
many parts of the Territory, and assuredly
should the people with one accord give praise
and thanksgiving to God whose hand has
been stretched out continually in their behalf.
There will be in all probability one of the larg-
est conferences ever assembled together in
Utah; It adds very much to the enjoyment of
any meeting and more especially is it neces-
sary where there is a multitudinous assem-
blage, to observe the laws of order and decor-
um. People can scarcely be too particular in
this respect.
 INTEMPERANCE AND in what way best to
check the growth of it, is a subject that is be-
ing considerably agitated in this community
at the present time. It is certainly one of the
most important matters which can be treated
upon, and requires the utmost thought, cau-
tion and wisdom in passing ordinances or reg-
ulations. It is one of the greatest evils with
which the world is contaminated and leads to
more crime than anything else in the whole
catalogue of vices. Every person who has
eyes to see may be aware of the great change
in this city in a very few years, in the growth
of this terrible sin; and it is decidedly time
that some efficient measures were taken to
prevent further increase of and profit from the
degrading traffic in this community. It is
sincerely to be hoped for the best interests of
all, and especially the young and innocent,
whose future it is the duty of the people to
carefully consider, that such measures may be
adopted as shall successfully hinder the sale of
ardent spirits, except for medicinal purposes.
God speed the time when every saloon here,
or elsewhere shall be closed forever. This sub-
ject should be kept before the people until some
permanent movement can be unitedly deter-
mined upon.
 THE  SUNDAY School: Jubilee of Cache
County, held in the bowery at Logan, Sep. 24,
1876, was in its complete success most encour-
aging, not only to those who had been instru-
mental in bringing about the gratifying result,
but to all persons interested in the future wel-
fare and progress of the youth of the Territory.
The Sunday School is one of the most efficient
educators of children. The congregation, it is
believed, consisted of over 2,000 children, and
about two thirds, or three-fourths as many
adults. Elder George Goddard, Assistant Gen-
eral Superintendent of the Sunday School
Union, addressed the children on the power of
the Sunday School to inculcate and promote
the best and truest principles in the minds of
the young, at a time when they were suscepti-
ble of receiving lasting impressions. Bishop
Wm. B. Preston in his remarks alluded to the
pleasure he felt in being able to say that there
were no "grog shops" there to allure and pol-
lute the habits and morals of the children, and
felt that he would like to take that vast assem-


blage in his arms and care for, and carry them
through, pure and unspotted from the evils of
the world, and see the children grow up in vir-
tue and purity."
	On reading this we could but think what an
appropriate speech for a Bishop, the father of
a people. Would that there were many such
fathers who would carry out in their lives the
feeling portrayed so eloquently in this brief
sentence. President Brigham Young. Jr., in
his address, contrasted the multitude there as
sembled, to the few who were only a few years
since gathered in Salt Lake City. He alluded
in a pathetic manner to the history of Joseph
Smith, said when the children were answer
ing the questions, he could fancy he saw "the
boy Joseph Smith wending his way to the
hill Cumorah." Spoke of the joy he must
have felt in receiving the plates from the stone
box. He alluded briefly to the joys and sor-
rows that afterward followed, and said the rec-
ollection of these things brought to him both
pain and pleasure in meditating upon them.
	Sup't. Moses Thatcher read some selected
lines which were very appropriate to the occas-
ion.
	Towards the close of the Jubliee a standing
musical committee was formed. The Jubliee
was most thoroughly enjoyed by all present,
and the most perfect harmony and good order
prevailed.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		69


MISTAKES CORRECTED.

	Mrs. Duniway, in an account of her recent
visit to this city, speaks of going through the
"great 'co-op' on Sunday." We are willing to
believe that the mistake thus published in her
paper, the "New North West," was merely a
typographical error. Still, it demands atten-
tion; as the erroneous idea might be created
thereby, that the "Mormons" have no more
respect for the Sabbath than to have their
stores open, and business transacted upon that
day. Mrs. Duniway's visit to the building re-
ferred to, occurred on Saturday instead of on
Sunday.
	She mentions "a Mormon lady who acted as
chaperon, and was both obliging and intelli-
gent." We bow acknowledgement to this deli-
cate compliment; and consequently we are
prepared to speak knowingly concerning the
circumstances of which Mrs. Duniway writes
during her visit to the store known as "The
Co-op." She speaks of a gentleman being ac-
costed by her chaperon, and relates the follow-
ing short conversation which took place be-
tween them.
	"'Have you been to see—lately?' evidently
meaning one of the wives of the man address-
ed.
	'No,' said he, 'not for some time. How are
they getting along?'
	"Nicely,' replied our guide; 'but you ought
to go and see her. She has a nice new baby.'
	'I know I ought to go, but I'm too busy,'
said the saint."
	Mrs. D. then comments as follows:
	"When the mothers of men are thus neglect-
ed, through viciousness and drunkeness, when
undergoing the fiery ordeal of unwelcome and
enforced maternity, men denounce the cruelty,
though failing to prevent it by law; but what
can we say of such inhumanity when prac-
ticed under the name of religion, and adhered
to as an ordinance of God, the law; meanwhile,
remaining powerless?"
	Was Mrs. Duniway watching for iniquity,
that she imagined she discovered a huge black
fact, where in truth, not the shadow of a dark
reality was visible?
	We take pleasure in correcting this mistake


also, which we consider of too much import
ance to pass unnoticed. The gentleman with
whom the above conversation was held, is the
father-in-law, not the husband of the lady
spoken of; which, we think, alters the appear-
ance of the case materially. We do not, and
would not knowingly hold conversation with
such an inhuman husband and father as Mrs.
Duniway must have considered our gentle-
manly and much esteemed friend. It is not
among the Mormons, we are happy to say,
that "the mothers of men," and their offspring
are "thus neglected." The present glory and
the anticipated exaltation of the Latter-day
Saint, reclines in his little kingdom begun on
earth.
	We hope the "New North West" will pub-
lish this explanation, which as an advocate of
truth and true intelligence, it should do in jus-
tice to its subscribers as well as to a people who
are often ignorantly maligned.


For the EXPONENT.
OUR PARENTS' LOVE.

	There is no love as true and faithful as
the love our parents give us, and for none
are we so ungrateful. We take this devo-
tion as something which is our right, or as
something we deserve, even though our
mothers toil and labor and deny them-
selves time after time for our gratification,
from our earliest infancy till our growing
to womanhood. We can never comprehend
the extent of her love and patience with
us; yet is there anything like it? Our lover
may desert us, our friends vanish, and in
our sorrow and distress leave us; but our
parents cling to us in all trials and troubles,
and we are dearer to them for any misfor-
tune or grief we may chance to have, or
meet with  in this life. Then let us do all
we can to make our parents hearts rejoice,
and that will add to their happiness in any
way, and show them by our actions that we
appreciate their kindness and love, and try
to lighten their troubles and labors; then,
when they shall leave us, we will have
nothing to reproach ourselves with on their
account; but to look forward eagerly to the
time when we shall meet them with joy
and gladness, and be assured that the meet-
ing will be a welcome one.
	M. J. R. R. HAMPTON.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]
				WOMAN.

	I do not know how I shall throw my ideas
into language, but my theme is Woman! I
fear I shall fail in doing justice to the sub-
ject, yet I will try; I am a woman's friend
in the fullest sense, for I will show how
much we owe to woman! Who gave me
life, naturally speaking? My mother! who
watched over me in my baby-hood, and
boyhood, in sickness and in health? Who
taught me to speak? Who taught me to
pray? My mother! who has watched over
me through the critical moments of youth-
ful life up to manhood? My Mother! Who
told me when I was wild, oh! so wild! to
obey the Priesthood? My Mother! Who
gave me strength to subdue my wild nature
by her kind teachings and wise suggestions?
My Mother! Who on earth are my two
best friends to-day? My wife, and my
Mother; I class them together now, because
I know no difference! Being so blest, should
not woman be my theme? And where can
I get a better subject to write upon? Ladies!
I ask you from 19 to 95—do you ever think
of your position on this earth? The influ-

[Column 2]
ence you throw around, either for good or
for evil? Think of it! Think of the power
you have for good, or its opposite! Do you
realize the life-giving faculty you possess,
like your Mother Earth? Do you try to un-
derstand your present, and your final des-
tiny? Oh! Women! Oh! Girls! if you would
only think, if you would only "take coun-
sel together," and say "come let us reason
together," if this be true, let us take heed and
obey it, what is wrong, let us refuse and
endeavor to appreciate and practice that
which is wise and good. Let me (although
a comparative stranger to many of you)
persuade you to think, think, think of your
position in life! You will say, perhaps, where
is my position? Well, I will try and give
you some of my ideas, but hold! I shall get
myself into a "fix," for I was going to pre-
sent my wife as a specimen! But perhaps
you would say, "oh! he's infatuated." Well
then to suit you I won't take her, but of
course you will let me take my Mother!
My own Mother! My Teacher in early
years, and up to the present time; No, I
hardly dare trust you yet! So I wont take
my Mother! If you all knew her, I would
not fear you censuring me for partiality—
but don't we all love our mothers? Are they
not literally our guardian angels upon the
earth? Yes—and we may add, "We knew it
not!" Now I must finish these desultory
thoughts and ideas, with a few more that
are in my mind. Burns, in speaking of the
works of Nature, says:

	"Her 'prentice Han', she tried on Man,
	And then she made the Lasses, O!"

I believe that God ordained man to be the
Leader and Woman to be his "Help-meet,"
that is, that she should walk foot to foot,
and shoulder to shoulder with her Brother
Man! Why, oh! why cannot you as Sisters,
as Wives, as Mothers, as Women as Girls,
follow in the footsteps of your Brother Man,
if worthy, in whatever capacity, or position
he may stand to you. Give me the woman
who is one with me through the journey of
life, my God, her God, my hope, her hope;
my people, her people. Do I ask too much?
Verily No! There have been many such
women upon the earth, though they are
among the few! but quite enough to re-
deem the sex. Then my sisters, awake
from your lethargy, your apathy, shake off
the listlessness that now enfolds so many
and say we will realize the Mission God has
given us, whether man helps us or not,
whether he owns it or not we WILL be a
Helpmeet for Man.
							IOTA,
	S. L. City, Sep., 1876.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Erysipelas:—Take smartweed moisten with
water, and apply to the part affected. If the
herb can be obtained green it is preferable; a tea
of the same drank inwardly will assist in remov-
ing the disease from the interior of the body.
Erysipelas is caused by an injudicious living,
which creates a putrefaction of the blood. No
person would have this disease if sufficient out-
door exercise was taken accompanied by a natu-
ral and proper diet, and sponge-bath every even-
ing and morning to keep the pores of the skin
free, so that nature could throw off the impure
matter which accumulates. This disease is often
caused by medicine which has been previously ta-
ken, and may have been gathering in the system
for years, in which case there is no permanent
cure except to purify the blood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	YOUNG LADIES OF SOCIETY.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

							"I your glass,
		Will modestly discover to yourself,
		That of yourself, which you know not of."
	The term young lady as expressed in
"common parlance," means one that dress-
es stylishly; if she has an indulgent father,
one that can be coaxed and wheedled out of
money for a caress, a few kisses, or win-
ning smiles, or, perchance, if the occasion
is urgent, a few sobs and a shower of tears.
Her hair must be frizzed and crimped, and
arranged "a la mode," regardless of facial
or cranial suitability. She is harmonized
and toned down to the level of modern
small talk, and has no disagreeable hob-
bies or opinions to make her offensive
in the eyes of the opposite sex; she is so in-
nocent and unsophisticated that whatever
she does is beautiful, in their eyes at least,
and in whatever she says or does she mani-
fests that she knows the power of sweet
looks and simplicity.
	She never seeks to lighten one's burdens
not even those of her own father or mother;
she is too delicate for any occupation, save
the fancy work she toys with, and she has
no power to strengthen or make happy the
lives of others. Even her little brothers
and sisters are an annoyance to her, she
dislikes children and if she marries never
intends to have any. She expects every
one to accommodate her, or yield her supre-
macy, the best seats, and the first privileges
are hers by right, one would suppose from her
behavior. Her accomplishments are varied
but she excels in none; she sings a little
when it pleases her, or plays a little on the
piano, or guitar, she knows a few French
phrases and has read scores of novels. She
is well versed in small talk and knows how
to flirt to perfection. She can dance all
night, but cannot possibly assist her mother
in sweeping, dusting or any household em-
ployment because it is too fatiguing.
	She ridicules the idea of women taking
any prominent part in any public enter-
prise, or meeting, is disgusted with wo-
men who want to vote, she expects she will
be all right, let the condition of politics or
the national affairs be prosperous or other-
wise, the world is indebted to her, one
would imagine so sure is she of her rights.
	She feels sadly ashamed of the mother
who ventures to suggest the propriety of
being self-sustaining, and her mother would
not by any means, like her to know that
she really had addressed a public congre-
gation.
	She knows nothing of the real worth of
money only as a power to be used for her
comfort, and to procure her kid gloves, em-
broidery, laces and jewelry. She never
thinks of denying herself any pleasure that
it may administer solace to another. SELF,
is her prevailing impulse. Her whole
every-day life is one grand mistake from
beginning to end, and will culminate in a 
grand failure.
	The fashionable young lady estimates
men by their faultless attire, the whiteness
of their hands and teeth, the fashionable
cut of their hair, the peculiar curl of their
mustache, and their polished manners. This
is her "beau ideal" no matter if his mind
is as bare and as unfruitful as the desert of
Sahara, if he possess these qualifications and
added to them has money to board at a ho-
tel or travel about he's a "good catch."
	Is this a fitting example for the daughters
of Zion? and are some of them not trying
to ape these very things, living continually
for the indulgence of SELF, without any

[Column 2]
higher aim than to create and foster admir-
ation?
	When one contemplates the great work
which woman has assigned her upon this
earth, and the necessity of commencing it
early, fostering and inculcating those gen-
uine principles of virtue, chastity, self-de-
nial and true nobility and generosity that
will develop into the most sublime attri-
butes in the character of woman as a wife
and mother, how earnest one should be to
impress upon the minds and hearts of the
daughters of Zion the great importance of
improving time and opportunities.

	"I would not waste my spring of youth,
	In idle dalliance; I would plant rich seeds,
	To blossom in my womanhood, and bear fruit
						When I am old."

	S. L. City, Sept. 23rd, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	A delegate convention of the Woman
Suffragists of Mass., was held in Meionaon,
Tremont Temple, Boston, Sept. 12, 1876, in
response to a call made upon them for that
purpose. Their motive was to consider po-
litical duties in regard to the fall elections
and to make nominations for State officers
should it then seem advisable.
	The Committee, or Credentials reported
that there were present 706 delegates, rep-
resenting 105 towns and wards. Mrs. Mary
A. Livermore was elected Chairman. The
meeting was one of special interest, many
subjects were discussed, all aiming at Wo-
man Suffrage.
	The Convention read the second time the
resolutions that had been adopted in 1872,
which were received with cheers.
	"Resolved, That we heartily approve of
the recognition of the Rights of Woman
contained in the National Republican plat-
form; that the Republican party of Massa-
chusetts, as the representative of Liberty
and Progress, is in favor of extending Suf-
frage on equal terms to all American citi-
zens irrespective of sex, and will hail the
day when the educated intellect and en-
lightened conscience of Woman finds di-
rect expression at the ballot box.
	Mr. Lothrop, for the Committee on Reso-
lutions, reported the following:

DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The Woman Suffragists of Massachusetts
in Delegate Convention assembled, respect-
fully submit to the people of the Common-
wealth the reasons which compel them for
the first time to make independent nomina-
tions for State officers.
	For many years they have appealed to
both the great political parties of the State
to rectify the injustice which taxes and gov-
erns women without their consent, and
which subjects them to cruel legal disabili-
ties, as wives, mothers and widows. But
their appeals have been disregarded. The
Republican party of Massachusetts, after
repeatedly endorsing Woman Suffrage in
its platform and repudiating it in the Legis-
lature, has just refused to invite Republican
women to take part in the nomination of
their representatives, and has framed a
platform which it declares has a double
meaning on the Suffrage issue. The Demo-
cratic party of the State has refused to
take any action on the subject. The Pro-
hibitory party of the State, on the contrary,
has invited women to take part in its pri-
mary meetings, with an equal voice and
vote in the nomination of candidates and
the transaction of business. It has made
the establishment of Woman Suffrage one

[COLUMN 2]

of its avowed objects, and has nominated
candidates, all of whom are Suffragists.
	State governments have jurisdiction over
matters with which the National Govern-
ment has no concern. We maintain that
State officers should be elected upon State
issues, independent of National politics.
And, whereas, Woman Suffrage is purely a
question of State policy, it is the duty of
Woman Suffragists of Massachusetts so to
cast their ballots next November as to rep-
resent their principles in the choice of
State officers.
	Believing that "Governments are just
only when they rest on the consent of the
governed," and that the establishment of
a truly representative government is vastly
more important than the success of Rice or
Adams, we commend the nominees of this
Woman Suffrage State Convention to the
Suffrages of the people, irrespective of
party, as the candidates who represent Im-
partial Suffrage and Equal Rights for all."
	Mrs. Livermore's speech was spirited
and eloquent, containing many excellent
points; she referred to the temperance
movement resting with women and that
men felt it to be so; she believed there
were 30,000 votes in the state that could be
obtained for Woman Suffrage. She spoke
of the influence of women in making pub-
lic meetings quiet and orderly. She ex-
horted women not to be scared by the word
"unwomanly," which scares so many out of
their boots. The definition of the word
womanly, means "being a fool," to most
men." She said if consecration makes
men noble, it lifts women to the height of
a grand purpose."
	Mrs. Spaulding, of Cambridge, offered
the following resolution, which was passed
without discussion:
	"Resolved, That we pledge ourselves as
Suffragists to vote for no person for Sena-
tor or Representative to the General Court,
who is not fully committed to the Suffrage
movement, and that the State Central Com-
mittee be instructed to take measures to en-
able Suffragists to carry this resolution at
the polls."


R. S. REPORT.

		CEDAR VALLEY, Sep. 13, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 21st of April, 1875, we had a pleas-
ant visit from Sister E. R. Snow, who or-
ganized among us a Retrenchment Associ-
ation Since that time we have met once a
week, and although we are but few in num-
ber, our meetings are generally interesting.
We read selections from the Exponent and
other good works, and original essays. We
have done no work in our meetings until
lately, now we meet every two weeks to
do work of different kinds. We desire to
improve ourselves and to do all we can to
forward the work in which we are engaged.
The officers who were selected are as fol-
lows:
	Miss Rebecca Rodeback, President,
	"	Polly D. W.,		 }
	"	Melissa Weeks,	 }
	"	Mary J. Glines,	 } Counselors.
	"	Phebe Wilcox,	 }
	Mrs. Harriet Walton,	 }
	"	Margaret Bennett, }
	Miss Mariett Cook, Secretary,
	"	Serena White, Assistant Secretary.
	Wishing your paper success, and the
blessing of God to attend you in your la-
bors, and hoping you will excuse this, my
first attempt, I remain your sister,
				SERENNA. WHITE, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
MISUSE OF POWER.

	God never gave to man nor woman,
brains, heart and muscular strength, with
the intention that any power pertaining to
the organization should remain dormant;
or that either should tryannize over and sub-
ject the others. Yet, in our mortal weak-
ness, we call it "human nature," that one
propensity over-balances the rest at times,
and often in spite of better judgment,
makes men and women speak and act like
dolts;
	To bring all the selfish and ignoble quali-
ties of our natures into subjection before
the better and higher ones, is the individ-
ual mission assigned to each one of us. But
how we over-step the bounds at times, and
wander strangely from the given path. Our
great desire to be magnanimous in helping
others to improve their ways, makes us for-
getful to reform our own.
	And thus it is, that whether we study
and practice self-control or not, we are quick
to show our wonderful appreciation of
right and order, by assaying to govern ac-
tions, tongues and tempers for those of
whom we receive the guardianship. If we
are parents, our children should be perfect,
or as nearly so as possible, notwithstanding
our own inconsistencies. If Statesmen,
rulers of a nation, the people for whose ben-
efit we labor, who feed and clothe, and find
us luxurious homes, must be respectfully
submissive to our prudent, wise decrees,
even though we, ourselves, are open viola-
ters of the country's laws.
	But such is not the pattern God has given
for those who wish to follow after Christ.
He requires none to be more holy than
Himself. To prove that Abraham would be
His faithful Friend, He asked no larger
boon than He was ready to bestow Him-
self on the ungrateful, unbelieving world.
	If this example were followed by God's
children on the earth, we should have no
"might opposing right," we should know
no wrongs created by the misuse of power.
	MABEL.


BEAUTIFUL EXTRACT.

	[The following beautiful tribute to Wo-
man was written many years ago. It occurs
in a tale of touching interest, entitled "The
Broken Heart"--its author, Dr. F. J. Strat-
ton:]—
	"Oh, the priceless value of the love of a
PURE woman! Gold cannot purchase a gem
so precious! Titles and honors confer upon
the heart no such serene happiness. In our
darkest moments, when disappointment
and ingratitude, with corroding care, gather
thick around, and even the gaunt form of
poverty menaces with his skeleton fingers,
it gleams around the soul with an angel's
smile. Time cannot mar its brilliancy; dis-
tance but strengthens its influence; bolts
and bars cannot limit its progress; it follows
the prisoner into his dark cell, and sweetens
the homely morsel that appeases his hunger,
and in the silence of midnight it plays
around his heart, and in his dreams he folds
to his bosom the form of her who loves on
still, though the world has turned coldly
from him. The couch made by the hand of
the loved one is soft to the weary limbs of
the sick sufferer, and the potion administered
by the same hand loses half its bitterness.
The pillow carefully adjusted by her brings
repose to the fevered brain, and her words
of kind encouragement revive the sinking
spirit. It would almost seem that God,


compassionating woman's first great frailty,
had planted this jewel in her breast, whose
heavenlike influence should cast into for-
getfulness man's remembrance of the Fall,
by building up in his heart another Eden,
where perennial flowers forever bloom, and
crystal waters gush from exhaustless foun-
tains."


FLORAL HINTS.

	AUTUMN LEAVES:—Gather as large a num-
ber and as great a variety of these leaves
as you wish, use old books for drying, or old
magazines, or newspapers; put as many
leaves on a page as you can, only not let
them touch each other, then turn five or
six pages and arrange similarly until you fill
your book; place in a cool dry place under
a heavy weight for twenty-four hours, then
remove the leaves to a dry book; change
them thus three times, when they will be
in beautiful condition and ready for use.
Get some cake wax, such as is used for
"fruit molding," put it in a vessel and set
that in a pan of water on the stove; when
melted, add a few drops of turpentine or
fir balsam, to render the wax pliable; when
the wax is the right temperature, dip the
leaves in one by one, or spray by spray and
hold each until cool, then place them upon
newspapers to harden completely: Thus
prepared they will present the natural ap-
pearance of the leaf, but to give them a
glossy surface give them a thin coat of De-
mar varnish with a camel's hair brush.
The best time to gather ferns for winter use
is September and October, also all kinds of
grasses and varieties of autumn berries.
Ladies of skill and ingenuity may arrange
these so artistically as to beautify and adorn
their homes with very little expense.


FASHIONABLE WOMEN.

	Fashion kills more women than toil and
sorrow. Obedience to fashion is a greater
transgression to the laws of woman's nature,
a greater injury to her physical and mental
constitution, than poverty and neglect.
The slave-woman at her tasks will live and
grow old, and will see two or three gener-
ations of her mistresses fade and pass away.
The washer-woman, with scarce a ray of
hope to cheer her in her toils, will live to
see her fashionable sisters die all around
her. The kitchen-maid is is hearty and strong,
when her lady has to be nursed like a sick
baby. It is a sad truth that fashion-pam-
pered women are almost worthless for all
the ends of human life. They have but
little force of character; they have still less
power of moral will, and quite as little phys-
ical energy. They live for no great purpose
in life: they accomplish no worthy ends.
They are only doll forms in the hands of
miliners and servants, to be dressed and fed
to order. They dress nobody, and save no-
body. They write no books; they set no
rich examples of virtue and womanly life.
If they rear children, servants do all save
to conceive and give them birth—and when
reared, what are they? What do they ever
amount to but weak scions of the old stock?
Who ever heard of a fashionable woman's
child exhibiting any virtue or power of
mind for which it became eminent? Read
the biographies of our great and good men
and women. Not one of them had a fash-
ionable mother. They nearly all sprang
from strong-minded women, who had about
as little to do with fashion as with the
changing clouds.—Ex.


SKELETON OR PHANTOM LEAVES:—The
collection of the various kinds of leaves
having been made, place them in an open
tub or pan, covering them several inches
above the leaves with rain water, then put
them in the open air in full sunlight. Put
a pane or two of glass or a light china plate
over them with a weight sufficient to keep
them well down in the water, the loss of
which by evaporation must be made up by
adding more when needed, to keep up the
quantity. After two weeks examine them
and if some are pulpy, take those out, let
those which have kept well remain, exam-
ine them once or twice a week, do not dis-
turb the water too much; after the leaf has
become slimy and pulpy remove them by
slipping a card under them, and allowing
them to float off into a basin of clear water.
The cleaning process is the next, for which
you will need a stiff camel's hair brush, a
stiff bristle brush and a tooth-brush. Slip
the leaf off upon a piece of smooth glass,
gently pass the brush over the surface, aid-
ing the brush with a stream of water poured
over it carefully. Then slip the leaf again
into the water, and let it float off on to the
glass on the opposite side cleaning that in
the same manner; the green surface must
be entirely removed until nothing but the
skeleton or fibrous veins remain; if the soft
brush will not do it, the stiffer one or the
tooth-brush must be applied; and for some
strong leaves gentle scrubbing is necessary;
it must not be a sweeping motion but a
downward tapping. As fast as the leaves
are cleaned they must be put in clean water
and left until the bleaching process, which
should be done as soon as possible. The
best method for bleaching is with a solution
of chloride of lime, and immersing them a
day or two in a covered dish, in a dark clos-
et, and covered with a folded towel.
To make the solution, take one table-spoon-
ful of chloride of lime in a quart of water,
adding a few grains of citric-acid, shaking
well until dissolved, then bottling the clear
liquid for use. Some experienced operators
prefer using chloride of soda. After bleach-
ing the leaves, put them in clear water for
twenty-four hours, float off on a card and
turn over on a soft napkin, and gently press
until all the moisture is absorbed, and then
curled gracefully or pressed between the
leaves of an old book, under pressure. They
will now bear handling and can be arrang-
ed to suit the taste, under a glass shade or
in a deep recess frame. Frames lined with
dark-colored velvet are very beautiful. A
black cross covered with them is very
pretty. Such leaves as contain tannin should
never be placed with others, such as Oak
and Hazel. A method sometimes used for
these leaves is to put with them a number
of the caddis worms which eat away all of
the soft green part of the leaf, leaving the
skeleton entire. The making up of these
phantom leaves requires tact and nicety,
but the effect is very ornamental.


A little Miss writing to her father on the first
day of her entrance at boarding school said: "The
first evening we had prayers and then singing, and
a passing round of bread which I did not take,
because not being confirmed, I thought I had no
right to take communion. Afterward I learned I
had lost my supper.


The cultivation of such manners as shall ex-
press the best feelings, the noblest thoughts, the
refinement and grace of the mind and the heart,
is a thing which cannot be too highly thought of,
or s[-]t about too soon.


72		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Icing for Plum Cake.—Take the white of an
egg, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and a tea-
spoonful of gum dragon, melted. Mix them into
a paste, and lay it on the cake.
	Carpet Moths.—We find that ground pepper,
plentifully sprinkled about the edges of carpets,
will prevent them, in a great measure at least,
from the ravages of this destructive creature.
	Night Light.—Put a bit of phosphorus into a
small phial, then fill it one-third with boiling olive
oil, and cork it close; whenever the stopper is ta-
ken out in the night, light will be evolved suffi-
cient to show the hour upon a watch.
	Making Vinegar.—To eight gallons of clear
rain water, add three quarts of molasses, put into
a good cask, shake well a few times, then add two
or three spoonfuls of good yeast cakes. If in sum-
mer, place the cask in the sun; if in winter, near
the stove, where it may be warm. In ten or fif-
teen days, add to the liquid a sheet of brown pa-
per, torn in strips, dipped in molasses; and good
vinegar will be produced. The paper will, in this
way, form what is called the "mother" or life of
vinegar.


Catarrh Snuff:—Powdered elecompane root,
half an ounce; powdered myrrh, a quarter of an
ounce; gum arabic a quarter of an ounce; blood-
root, half a drachm. Mix altogether and use
twice a day. It must be continued to effect a per-
manent cure.
	For Dyspepsia:—One ounce of double tanzy,
dry, one ounce of boneset, one ounce of flour of
hops, two ounces of spearmint, one ounce of car-
away seed, half a pint of Holland gin, half a
pint of cold, soft water, a teacup half full of
loaf-sugar, a quarter of a pound of glauber salt.
Add all together, then strain, and take a desert
spoonful before each meal; and on going to bed.
	Benefit of Laughter:—A hearty laugh is a vi-
talizer to the whole body. The blood moves quickly
and as its chemical electricity conveys a different
impression to all the organs of the body it car-
ries on its mystic journey new life, and electric
force. There is no doubt a good laugh promotes
happiness, and brings joy and gladness to the
heart. It is better than all the pills and electric
shocks in Christendom:—C. A. Von Cort, M. D.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT species of love is that which is
never reciprocated?—A neuralgic affection.
	An undoubted truth.—The people
want the gas companies not only to make
their dwellings light, but their bills light-
er.
	England has waged forty-nine wars since
1300; France, thirty-eight; Russia, twenty-
two; Austria, twelve, and Prussia, eight.
	The stone bridge across the river Taff, in
England, was built in 1746. It has a span
of one hundred and seventy feet, and is as
firm to-day as when built.
	CONSIDERATE.—"Now Spriggins my
dear," said Mrs. Spriggins at the theatre
after the first act, "you needn't go out to
get any coffee for I've got a pound in my
pocket."


AT the request of the king of Sweden,
Mme. Nilsson consented to appear as Mar-
guerite in the Royal Theatre at Stockholm.
She has been enthusiastically received in
her native land, and feted and honored as
few but queens ever are.


A curious calculation has been made in
the printing office of a Paris newspaper.
Assuming that a good compositor handles
24,000 letters a day, and that his hand moves
one foot with each letter in taking and set-
ting the type, it will be seen that his hand
travels 43,000 feet, or nearly ten miles, a
day, and in the course of a year, excluding
Sundays, travels fully the distance from
Paris to New York.
	MAKING A FOOL OF ONESELF.—Making a
fool of oneself is with many people a part
of the educational experience of life. Once
brought to the experimental realization of
this fact, one is apt to be wiser ever after.
A man generally makes a fool of himself by
wasting his money; or going into some mad
speculation; or believing in mines and com-
panies that are but traps for the unwary; or
by losing his temper at a critical moment.
A woman manages to do the same thing
through the means of her tongue or her
heart. She talks herself into tribulation:
or she gives her love to some worthless
creature who becomes the bane of her life.
It is over his empty purse that a man gen-
erally stands and clenches his hands, and
mutters, "I've made a fool of myself." It
is over her empty heart that a woman usual-
ly wails forth the same words.
	Let those who would attain real greatness keep
themselves true to their conscience and to their
Creator; let them order their lives with wise sim-
plicity; be frugal in all the substances of life; and
set the example so greatly needed in modern times,
of wholesome moderation. Show by what you
do and by what you are, that you esteem character
above all else.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[handwritten text in margin]

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity. to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town,
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
