VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1876.	NO. 6.


For the EXPONENT.
IT'S BETTER TO LAUGH THAN TO
CRY.

I am only a girl in the cold, proud world,
	Working from day to day;
But this is my plan, wherever I can,
	To brighten the lonely way.
I look around me where they stand,
	The weary and sad and meek,
I smile and offer a friendly hand,
	And these are the words I speak:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die;
To sustain one's self and thus be free,
	And its better to laugh than to cry."

I have a heart that is full of love,
	For those sorrowing words of dust,
And would brace them up while they drink life's cup,
	So bitter, though oft so just.
But I know that the Lord is over all,
	Who can every comfort bring;
So attention to this great truth I call,
	And this is the song I sing:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die;
To trust in God and His mercies see,
	And it's better to laugh than to cry."

I often think as the world moves on,
	And we trample and crowd and shove,
That a world like this, full of lovliness,
	Should be much fuller of love.
We all admit that it must be so,
	When God shall all things restore;
And this great, beautiful truth I know,
	And I love to keep telling it o'er:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die:
To help each other and all agree,
	And it's better to laugh than to cry."

There's plenty of work for us all, my friends,
	And blessings that all may earn,
If we'll hold to the plan, wherever we can,
	To offer a kindly turn.
I'm only a woman bearing a part,
	In the world's great, busy throng;
Yet I may comfort some sadder heart,
	By the sound of my cheery song:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die;
To assist the Lord in His wise decree,
	And it's better to laugh than to cry."

		A WORKING WOMAN.


[Column 1]
	NOT ABOVE THEIR MISUNDER-
			STANDING.

	Dr. Arnold said, thirty years ago: "It is
in vain to say that questions of religion
and politics are above the understanding of
the poorer classes: they are not above their
mis-understanding." This is the irrestible
fact in regard to women and politics; and
every advance in education increases the
weight of the fact. At the beginning of a
Presidential campaign, this consideration
presses more and more upon us. Every
man wishes, or professes to wish that the
whole community should be enlightened as
to measures and men. Woman as a power-
ful factor in this process, will be every-
where conciliated. But if you conciliate
them, why not enlighten them? And of
all modes of enlightenment, the best is
that which is to be found to lie in some ac-
tual participation in the pursuit.
	This is recognized, in some degree by the
most conservative. The study of Political
Economy is introduced into High Schools
and Academies for both sexes. The most
conservative authorities recommend that
"Nordhoff's Politics for young Americans"

[Column 2]
should be widely circulated among ingen-
ious youth. Mr. Wells writes: "Robinson
Cruesoe's Money" that all may read. Why
is all this, if not that the understanding of
the whole people may be reached, and their
misunderstanding corrected? And since
women will have opinions and will influ-
ence votes, why not include them in the
general instruction? If we look in the
newspapers, what questions do we find
most pressing? The Chinese question, the
Indian war, the Hamburg massacre. All
these questions are daily discussed at a hun-
dred thousand breakfast tables, and in most
of these discussions women take their part.
What they say may have much or little ar-
gumentative value, but its representative
value is enormous. If it does not exhibit
common sense it exhibits at least the com-
mon nonsense—a thing which is, as Helps
has pointed out, almost equally important
to know.
	And each of these questions, moreover,
will be taken up and followed out, by clear
heads among both sexes, to its ultimate
principles. The principles of civilization
itself,—the rights of different races and re-
ligions under our government—the bind-
ing force of treaties—the principle of State
rights as against centralized power, are all
involved in them. Nay, a few short steps
take one back to the theory of the Federal-
ist, that the few wise and good should gov-
ern the many—or the other theory involved
in Jefferson's pithy question. "It is said
that man cannot be trusted to govern him-
self; can he then be trusted to govern an-
other? And between these two there is a
great gulf fixed, of inheritance, temperance
and habit; and if man cannot yet bridge
this chasm how can woman?"
	That women are to vary among them-
selves, almost as much as men, in opinions
on public matters is plain from the divided
fears, of those who oppose their enfran-
chisement; orthordox Christians for in-
stance, opposing it lest women should prove
too radical; and free thinkers, lest they
should prove too conservative. But wo-
men have opinions on all these matters as
it is; they are radical or conservative, as it
is. What we claim is that just in propor-
tion as they have a recognized position,
they differ, as it is. What we claim is that
just in proportion as they have a recognized
position, they will be trained for that posi-
tion, and by educating their understand-
ing we shall best get rid of their misunder-
standing.—A. W. H.—Ex.


BUCKSTONE'S BENEFIT AT DRURY LANE
THEATRE, LONDON:—

	A benefit was tendered to the old and
celebrated Comedian, Buckstone of the
Haymarket Theatre, London, it came off on
the 8th of June-"The School for Scandal,"
was the play chosen-every character even
to the guests, being played by first class
characters, in fact the elite of the stage
came forward to honor their old friend; the
result-was one of the most wonderful per-
formances ever known. The net profits of
that single performance amounted to the
large sum of twelve hnndred pounds."
						H. T. K.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	EASTERN papers announce the death of
Sydney Rigdon at Friendship, Alleghany
County, New York, July 14. He was born
in Alleghany County, Pennsylvania, in
1793, and was about 83 years of age at his
death. Sydney Rigdon's name is familiar
with the people called Latter-day Saints; in
connection with the early history of the
church. It is said that he was unwavering
in his testimony concerning the truth of the
Book of Mormon.
	THE FIRST railroad in China has been
opened for traffic. The line is only five
miles long, connecting Shanghai and Kan-
gwan; it is intended to extend it to Woo-
sung, five miles farther. It is built on the
narrow guage system with British capital.
This opens a new field for American enter-
prise in China, undoubtedly they will soon
establish a vast railroad system.
	THE FORTY Fourth Congress has pro-
tracted its session very considerably owing
probably to the great variety of questions
before the house and the many wide differ-
ences of opinion upon them. It seems to
have been particularly hard work during
this session to come to any satisfactory de-
cision, and where haste or dispatch are used
at the close of a session in disposing of vexed
questions ruinous consequences are usually
the result.
	AT THE Universal Peace Convention, (an
international gathering) held in Philadel-
phia early in this present month, the fol-
lowing resolutions were adopted as pro-
posed by Julia Ward Howe.
	"Resolved, That this Convention do not
regard the late unhappy massacre of U. S.
troops under General Custer as requiring or
justifying any departure from the pacific
policy inaugurated by the President of the
United States. They believe this event, on
the contrary, to have been the result of an
attempt on the part of our troops to occupy
by force a territory formerly ceded to the
Indians and already long occupied by them;
and they would respectfully request the
Government to either complete the purchase
of the disputed Territory or secure to the
Indians its peaceable possession.
	"Resolved, That the friends of peace
should spare no pains to contribute to the
civilization of the Indian tribes on our
frontiers and elsewhere, that schools and
missions should be largely established
among them, and that their children should
be so trained and educated as [-]o become fit-
ted to participate in the rights and duties of 
American citizenship.
	"Resolved, That every effort should be
made by the Government of the United
States and the friends of peace in America,
to induce the Indian tribes devoted to hunt-
ing to support themselves by agriculture,
and to study the arts and appliances of civ-
ilized life, since the tendency of their pres-
ent mode of life is to excite their passions
which lead to deeds of cruelty, while the
tendency of agricultural pursuits is peace-
ful and humanizing.—EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The Senior and Junior Retrenchment
Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, Saturday, Aug. 7th, was
one of general instruction and good feeling,
Counselor Zina D. Young presiding: meet-
ing opened with the usual exercises and
reading of minutes by the young lady sec-
retaries; considerable improvement is mani-
fest from time to time in the reports from
the societies, any person who attends these
meetings can readily perceive the spiritual
culture that is gaining ground in the organ-
izations formed to promote spiritual devel-
opment of the young. Mrs. Zina D. Young
spoke of the testimony the faces of the sis-
ters brought to her by being present regu-
larly at these meetings, that they were
seeking after light and knowledge from on
high. Mrs. J. Howe, Coun. E. Howard,
Mrs. M. R. Thompson, Mrs. P. Kimball
and other sisters spoke of obeying counsel,
training and educating the young, home
manufacture and other subjects of interest.

	FAIRVIEW, June 16, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our president, Mrs. Mary
A. Pritchett, I send you the Eighth Annu-
al report of Fairview Relief Society. The
Society convened in the meeting house on
the 14th of June, 1876. Opened by sing-
ing—prayer by Bishop Tucker. Report
read by the Secretary, as follows: From Jan.
21st, 1876, till June 14th.
	Disbursed to the needy................... $ 20
	To St. George Temple....................	    38
	To Salt Lake Temple......................     16
	In Treasury.....................................     12
	Spirited remarks were made by our Bish-
op and others. Our President, Sister Prit-
chett exhorted the sisters to be united, said
she was pleased with what they had
done in so short a time. We have a great
mission to perform in helping to build up
the kingdom of God, and it is for us to be
up and doing. Several other sisters spoke,
and all seemed to enjoy the spirit of the
Lord. Dismissed by Bro, Sanderson.
	M. A. PRITCHETT, Pres.
		T.C. AVERY, Sec. 

	KAYSVILLE, July 10, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT
	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of Kaysville was organized May 16,
1876, by Sister Eliza R. Snow: officers as
follows:
	Mrs. Ada Williams, President,
	"	Maggie Allred,
	Miss Helen Hyde,
	"	Matilda Egbert		Counselors.
	"	Sarah Ann Webb,
	"	Martha Raymond,
	"	Mary Ann Layton, Secretary.
	Mrs. Celina Phillips, Assistant Secretary.
	Miss Elizabeth Williams, Treasurer.
	Seventy-five young ladies were admited
as members of the Society. Our meetings
are well attended, and all seem to take an
interest in the welfare of the Association.
	We have an energetic president who is
fast gaining the love and respect of the
young sisters. She is taking measures to
establish Home Industries, according to the
counsel of Sister Snow. At the organiza-
tion of the society, Sisters' Eliza R. Snow
and Rachel Grant gave us some excellent
instructions and advice, which we think
will leave a lasting impression on the
minds of all who were present.
	We gave a concert on the fourth of July,

[COLUMN 2]

assisted by a number of the young men,
from which we realized forty-two dollars,
which will be used for the establishment of
Home Industry.
	The Exponent is read with interest in
our meetings.
	With best wishes for the advancement of
every good work, we remain your sisters,
	HELEN HYDE,
		MARY A. LAYTON, Sec'y.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE Co.,
		July 11, 1876
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 17th day of June, 1876, the young
ladies of Wellsville were organized into a
Retrenchment Association with the follow-
ing officers:
	Miss Mary E. Maughan, President,
	"	Martha Eckersley,
	"	Martha Woodward,
	"	Lucy Haslam,
	"	Annie Leavitt,
	"	Mary J. Owens,
	Mrs. Martha A. Murray, Secretary,
	Miss Euphamia Nibley, Treasurer.
	We meet regularly, and speak of the
things pertaining to the work in which we
are engaged. Our President is an amiable
young lady, who is trying together with
her counselors, to honor her calling. We
have forty-seven members. We have ta-
ken a vote to refrain from round dancing;
we read selections from the EXPO-
NENT at every meeting and gain much in-
struction therefrom.
	Wishing the paper success, and all insti-
tutions of improvement, I remain your
Sister &c.,
		MARTHA A. MURRAY, Sec'y

	SOUTH COTTONWOOD, July llth, 1876. 
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have been rather negligent in for-
warding our report. Our soeiety is in a
very prosperous condition and we are try-
ing to do all the good we can. We held our
Annual Meeting on the 8th of June, there
was a full attendance. Bishop Joseph Raw-
lins and several of the teachers were pres-
ent and gave us some very good instruc-
tions. They were well satisfied and pleased
with the progress we had made, and the
way in which we conduct our meetings,
encouraged us to sustain all HOME MANU-
FACTURES and strive to be self-sustaining
in all things. Many interesting remarks
were made on very important subjects, but
would take up too much space to make
mention of them.
	The report of the Society from its organ-
ization in May 17, 1868, until May 17th,
1876. Disbursements as follows:
	Cash disbursed......................   $1,323 98
	Cash to Emigration Fund......	     325 00
	Goods to Lamanites and St.
	George Temple......................		88 65
	Goods disbursed to poor........	      397 91
	Total goods disbursed............	      486 56
	Produce..................................		18 60
	Cash in hand, at present time.		12 25
	Goods.....................................		59 75
	Mulberry trees valued at........	      100 00
	Cash invested in the Co-op
	Store.......................................		92 26
		JANET CAHOON, Prest.,
			ANN E. LABRUN, Sec.


A COUNTRY paper in describing the burn-
ing of a building, mentions the rescue "by
way of a window of the servant girl fifteen
feet in height."


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is my first attempt to write for the
EXPONENT and I do not expect to give any
one instruction or counsel, but I feel it
my duty to contribute my mite with the
rest of my sisters, and I know that if we
strive to do right and ask our Heavenly
Father to bless and aid us in our endeav-
ors to do good He will do so. I do not
have the same chance to improve my mind
and feast my soul that some of my sisters
have who live in the midst of the Saints,
and do not have the outside influences to
contend with that those living out here do.
But we can learn to do right and not follow
after the ways of the outside world. We
have a Sunday School, and it is in a pros-
perous condition. We have no young la-
dies association, because there are but very
few families and they are living quite a
distance apart. Swearing and drinking is
getting to be quite a habit with some of the
young people in this vicinity, most people
know that it is wrong and should refrain
from it. I am very glad to hear that round
dancing is being put down among our
young people. Boys and girls refrain from
using bad language, refined people do not
like to associate with young ladies who
use slang phrases, and young men who will
swear, they feel ashamed to be seen in their
company, they are shuned, and respected
by none. If we are acquainted with any of
this type, let us talk kindly to them, show
them how wrong it is, and try to persuade
them to better regulate their conversation
and their actions.
	We should honor and obey our parents
and teachers, and do our best to keep the
commandments of God in every particular.
How well we feel when we know that we
have done right, and how miserable when
conscious of having done wrong. There
are many young men and boys who think
it is a credit to them to smoke, but on the
contrary, it is a disgrace; it is a very bad
habit and the Latter-day Saints are counsel-
ed to refrain from it. "Do what is right,
let the consequence follow," when we do
this we are often ridiculed by our compan-
ions, but if the spirit of God is in our
hearts, and we know we are pleasing Him,
we do not care for their taunts and sneers.
Let us shun all evil companions, and seek
the company of those who can improve us.
I am not in the habit of giving counsel, but
I feel it my duty to speak about these bad
habits having noticed many of the evils
which arise from them. We should strive
to improve our minds and seek continually
to do our duty.
	We all have faults, some more than oth-
ers, but by constant prayerand watch-guard
over our actions, we will in time overcome
them. We must love all mankind, and
keep the GOLDEN RULE if we ever expect
to have a crown in the kingdom of Him
who is Omnipotent. We should pray con-
stantly to Him who keeps us from day to-
day. May God bless us all and preserve us
from evil, is my prayer in the name of Je-
sus.
	I remain your Sister, &c.
						J. A. MAXWELL.
	Little Spring Valley, Nev.


THE following advertisement lately ap-
peared in a Liverpool paper:—"Wanted, by
a young man of refined musical tastes, a
position as son-in-law in a quiet, well-to-do
family. Address ——."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		43


LEARN TO KEEP HOUSE.

Beautiful maidens—aye nature's fair queens,
Some in your twenties, and some in your teens,
Seeking accomplishments worthy your aim.
Striving for learning, thirsting for fame;
Taking such pains with the style of your hair,
Keeping your [---]y complexions so fair:
Miss not this item in all your gay lives,
Learn to keep house, you may one day be wives.
			Learn to keep house.

Now your Adonis loves sweet moonlight walks,
Hand clasps, and kisses, and nice little talks;
Then, as plain Charlie, with burden of care,
He must subsist on more nourishing fare;
He'll come home at the set of the sun.
Heart-sick and weary, his working day done,
Thence let his slippered feet ne'er wish to roam,
Learn to keep house that you may keep home.
			Learn to keep house.

First in his eyes will be children and wife,
Joy of his joy, and life of his life,
Next his bright dwelling, his table, his meals—
Shrink not at what my pen trembling reveals,
Maidens romantic, the truth must be told.
Knowledge is better than silver or gold;
Then be prepared in the spring-time of health,
Learn to keep house, tho' surrounded by wealth.
			Learn to keep house.


[Column 1]
			A VISIT TO TEXAS.

	I left S. L. City, in company with the
missionaries who were going East, on
the 9th of Nov., 1875, to visit my relatives
in Texas, and had a very pleasant and in-
teresting time. On the Union Pacific R. R.
we met with a number of strangers who
manifested an interest in our people, and
wished to know concerning our doctrine &c.
They had stayed over Sunday in Salt Lake,
and had heard Orson Pratt preach and were
surprised to find the city so orderly and
quiet, spoke of the saloons being closed, re-
marked how unfavorably we had been rep-
resented abroad.
	I was surprised to find books distributed
on these cars containing misrepresentations
against the Mormons. I thought the U.
P. R. R. was too well patronized by the
Mormons to allow such insults to them; I did
not feel like being insulted by the distribution
of such literature, (especially as there was
no deduction made in the fare for a lady
missionary,) nevertheless it opened a field
for the missionaries, so that what was design-
ed for evil resulted in good.
	On our arrival at Omaha we parted with
the Elders who were going East and board-
ed the southern train by way of Council
Bluffs, St. Joseph, and Kansas cities for Dal-
las, Texas, which is near my mother's resi-
dence, arrived at the "Old Folks at Home,"
the seventh day after leaving here. To say
we had a joyful meeting and all talked at
once, will not begin to express the scene
that prevailed. My brother Thomas said it
reminded him of the resurrection, that
twenty years absence had not broken the
kindred ties; I answered, if you believe the
Gospel they have grown ten-fold stronger.
He replied he had not lost the testimony
he[-]eceived twenty years before, but was
anxious to forward the work and assist the
Elders; there were appointments made and
the work of preaching the everlasting Gos-
ple re-commenced in that lovely land of
Texas, for indeed it is a beautiful country,
and I felt constrained to prophesy that
there would yet be a Temple built in that
land and the Saints would possess it; the
good seed sown there by the Elders twenty
years ago has not all died out, and by dili-
gent care and cultivation it will yet take
root and grow. The meetings were well
attended, eight persons were baptized into
the church and others renewed their cov-
enants by baptism, and many were inter-
osted, believing and inquiring. I never

[Column 2]
felt better and stronger in my life than I
did when defending the character of this
people and the principles of our belief. I
attended all the meetings held by our Eld-
ers in Bosque County, Texas, and whenever
it was known that I was present, I was al-
ways requested by some of the audience to
speak and tell what I knew, and what had
induced me to live among such a despised
people. I never refused to respond and
there was a power with me whenever I
raised my voice to testify to the truth of
the Latter-day work. I was told in a bless-
ing given me by one of the Twelve Apos-
tles, that those who heard my testimony
should be pierced to the heart, and this
prophecy was literally fulfilled. Several
noted gentlemen remarked to my brother
that they never heard a more convincing
testimony, and that he should feel proud of
a sister who in face of opposition, and the
unpopularity of the doctrine in which she
believed, could thus stand up and defend it.
A gentleman said to me, Paul said it
was a shame for a woman to speak in
public." I replied, Paul also said, Priscil-
la and Aquilla labored with him in the
Gospel, and that Paul was not writing to
me, that my religion was between me and
my Father in heaven, that I had covenant-
ed with Him that if He would give me a
testimony of the truth I would be a faith-
ful witness to Him. He had fulfilled His
promise and now it remained for me to be
true to my covenant with Him. On one
occasion I was requested by a Universalian
minister to speak to the people on the sub-
ject of polygamy; this reverend gentleman
invited our Elders to preach to his congre-
gation, thinking to lay a snare for them as
was afterwards proven, but he was caught
in his own trap, for there was an editor
present who reported the discourses of
Elders' East and Greer, and published
them, which opened the way for Mr. East
to get an article published in the Bosque
Co. Herald, in which he invited the said
Rev. gentleman to prove the assertions he
had made by the Bible. At this meeting
there was the largest audience that had
ever been present, and I was called on to
speak at the close of the meeting; I told
them it reminded me of the Apostle Paul
when he made his defense before King
Agrippa, Paul had seen the power of God
made manifest (so had we) he had seen a
vision and testified of Jesus of Nazareth,
and the resurrection of the dead, (so do
we testify of that same Jesus, the gift of
the Holy Ghost bearing witness &c., and
we warn you to repent and fear God for the
hour of His judgment has come, and the
day is nigh at hand when this beautiful
land of yours will be laid waste by another
desolating war, and you will feel the chast-
ening hand of God and acknowledge Him
perchance when it is too late to gather out.
We contrasted the practises of the mono-
gamic cities of the world, where beautiful
women were led astray and excluded from
society, disowned by parents and kindred,
left to die without husband or child to
mourn for them, their names dishonored
and cast out as evil forever; compared this
with the Patriarchal order of marriage
where women are honorable wives and
mothers, the children considered an herit-
age from the Lord. You who so despise Po-
lygamy which of the two do you think the
Lord will own and bless?
	There are among the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, we are proud to say, those
who are self-sacrificing like holy women of
old, and as Josephine the first wife of Napo-
leon, who would make a sacrifice for the
the benefit of a nation, or the elevation of a

[Column 3]
people, rather than to gratify their own sel-
fish feelings and desires. To be self-sacrific-
ing is elevating and exalting, it was through
this principle that Abraham proved him-
self to be the friend of God.
	After bearing a faithful testimony, we bid
farewell to Texas and our kindred; Yes,
Fare well, "In the sweet by and by we may
meet on that beautiful shore."
	On the 25th of April, 1876, we started
for home, "Sweet Home," arrived in S. L.
City the 2d day of May, feeling we had
not labored in vain.
				WILLMIRTH EAST.


SPLINTERS.

		GENERAL.
	The Emperor of Brazil's hotel expenses
in this country are said to have been nearly
$40,000......Charles Campbell, the Vir-
gina historian, died a few days ago in the
insane asylum at Staunton......Vanderbilt
is very likely to recover......Miss Allison,
the engineer of machinery, in the Wo-
man's Pavillion at the Centennial is report-
ed very ill......Miss Martineau, recently de-
ceased, left an injunction in her will
against the publication of her private let-
ters......Clara Bauer, a German novel-writ-
er, died lately in Breslau; she was familiar
with Russian society, and her last work "A
Document," was a portrayal of the best
Russian society......New port, Vermont, on
the 4th of July, had music by a drum corps,
each member of which was over ninety
years of age. America has two thousand
actors, all trying to become renowned......
Bryant is said to be the richest as well as
the oldest poet now living.....Over three
millions of visitors have reviewed the cu-
riosities at the Centennial Exposition...... I
Capt. Gildersleeve will command the Amer-
ican rifle team in the Centennial matches.
		FOREIGN.
	Abdul Aziz's private jewelry, valued at
six million Turkish lbs., has been seized
and handed to the Finance Department for
sale.........Don Carlos is tall, handsome,
swarthy of complexion, dark hair, dark
moustache, and small imperial......Victor
Hugo is worth half a million of dollars and
is said to be as egotistical as he is rich......
Mrs. Swishelm writes that in Germany it is
the rule for gentlemen to bow first in the
matter of recognition......News from the
seat of war in the East is of a very confiict-
ing character, each side claiming victories.
All the powers except Russian have de-
clared Roumania's demands unreasonable
.......A Berlin mechanic has invented a
steam velocipede, the engine is heated with
petroleum, and placed on the back wheels
does not interfere with the driver.


ALEXANDRE Dumas, who had some rea-
son to complain of his plays being left on
the shelf, sat down one evening and wrote
an article in his newspaper against the
Theatre Francais. An ill-natured person
carried the news, the manager immediate-
ly altered his play bills. The next morning
people after reading the attack of the great
author on the Theatre Francais, turned to
see what the house was performing, they
read—"This evening 'Les Demoiselles de
St. Cyr,' by Alexandre Dumas, to be fol-
lowed by 'Le Mari de la Veuve,' by Alex-
andre Dumas. To-morrow evening, 'Made-
moiselle de Belle Isle,' by Alexandre Du-
mas, to be followed by 'Romulus,' by Alex-
andre Dumas."


44		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

WOMEN TALKERS AND WOMEN
WRITERS.

	"But words are things; and a small drop of ink,
	Falling like dew upon a thought, produces
	That which makes thousands, perhaps millions think."
		BYRON.
	Then let women talk and write and think.
It is a common saying, women talk too much;
it may be that they do about that which is of
no real importance, but upon subjects which
should be well understood, by women possess-
ing common intelligence, there are a vast ma-
jority who do not converse at all; to them it is
all rubbish, nonsense and unwomanly. They
prefer to have a husband, father or brother, to
think and act and speak for them; to attend to
them, to support them and to defend them.
It is to educate this class of women upon such
essential points, that it becomes more than
ever necessary to speak, and write, and har-
angue. The vine and oak theory, that has
been so romantically written about by a cer-
tain class of authors, will answer perhaps in
exceptional cases, but how it will apply to the
world of mankind and womankind in general,
those who are observers of modern society
can easily perceive.
	In this wonderfully enlightened nineteenth
century when there is so much questioning
of rights and equality and supremacy. and in-
feriority and superiority, and submission and
place and calling, and influence and individu-
ality, it is but natural to express some interest
on the subjects which bring to their aid such a
variety of adjectives to qualify and determine
their general and relative interest.
	It is a well-authenticated fact and palpable
to all the world, that there are thousands of
women, who have no such substantial support
to cling to, as an oak in the form of a husband,
father or brother, and of those who have, there
are many, who suffer more than those who
have not, from intemperance and other causes,
consequently it follows, that as vines they
would trail upon the earth, and very naturally
be trod upon just as thousands of women are,
who have been taught and encouraged in de-
pendence instead of independence.
	Circumstances and training it is said form
the individual; certainly they tend to strength-
en and develop important characteristics.
Custom the irrepressible tyrant, has in the
past constrained parents to train their boys for
the battle of life, the girls to look forward to
marriage as the one great aim of their exist-
ence. Now custom, alias fashion, argues men
cannot afford wives they are too expensive a
luxury; then women must necessarily look
around for some avenue of support, some prac-
tical, paying kind of labor. These matters re-
quire serious thought, require words, require

[COLUMN 2]

actions,—which will determine some positive
demonstration of the subject in question.
	Women cannot talk too much about these
matters, if they do so understandingly to as-
sist in enlightening themselves and others.
	The world says Polygamy makes women in-
ferior to men—we think differently. Polyga-
my, gives women more time for thought, for
mental culture, more freedom of action, a
broader field of labor, inculcates liberality and
generosity, develops more fully the spiritual
elements of life, fosters purity of thought and
gives wider scope to benevolence, leads wo-
men more directly to God the fountain of all 
truth, knowledge, light and intelligence.
	If those who are anxious to promote higher
development, would consider the true prin-
ciples upon which to base marriage, they would
look closely into the order of plural marriage,
and some of the most momentous questions
that are puzzling the world at the present
time, might thus be properly adjusted. Then
let women talk, and write, and reason, and
think, and interchange their ideas with each
other and with men. God has endowed wo-
man with reasoning and intuitive powers—
certainly He intended her to use her own
agency.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS:

	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of an elegant
bouquet of flowers from Mrs. Toms, we appre-
ciate these delightful and pleasant reminders
of the perfection of the works of God, and we
are grateful to the lady for her kind remem-
brance. The flowers were delicate and choice
ones, and the trailing vines, ferns and fancy
grasses gave an additional charm to their va-
riety and beauty.
	WE HAVE had several pleasant calls within
the past week from strangers, people of refine-
ment and culture. Almost invariably, they
express themselves pleased with the locality
and general appearance of the city, the moun-
tain scenery etc. Capt. Havelock, Mrs. Have-
lock, and Mrs. Rattray, English people, called
on Monday, Aug. 7th, and spent an hour [--]
two in a cheerful social way. They had been
under the impression that this people discour-
aged education, advancement, or progression
in any but industrial employments.
	THE BENEFIT tendered Mrs. Susie Maiden,
at the Theatre on Saturday evening, Aug. 5th,
was not so largely attended as the occasion de-
served. The selection of the programme for
the entertainment presented a most attrac-
tive bill, and those who profess so much ad-
miration for the drama ought to offer some in-
ducement and encouragement to HOME TAL-
ENT. Mrs. Marden as Peach Blossom was a
decided success, and merited the applause ac-
corded her, and the congratulation of her
friends for her exertions to please the public.
Several other parts were extremely well ren-
dered, particularly those performed by Miss
Colebrook and Miss Decker.
	Mrs. Louisa Pratt of Beaver, in this Terri-
tory has written her Autobiography which
she purposes publishing the present year.
The writer is in her 74th year, she has
kept a journal almost all her life, and has pre-
served a record of the most important events.
She has a prospectus printed and distributed
among her friends; in this she refers to some
of the main incidents of her history, of her
journey by land from the Atlantic to the Pa-
cific, before the days of cars and steam, of her
sojourn on the South Pacific Islands, where

[Column 2]
she resided for some time with her husband
and family, including four daughters, living
in friendship with the natives, a teacher to
their children &c., of her many trials shared
with the saints, in their persecutions wander-
ings and drivings. She closes the prospectus
by saying the work shall have one merit, it
will be STRICTLY TRUE.
	MRS. A. J. DUNIWAY, one of the most ear-
nest and indefatigable workers in the cause of
Woman's Suffrage etc., delivered two lectures
during her recent stay in this city. The first
was designed particularly to benefit her sex,
and enlighten them on some particular essen-
tial points of which many women seem en-
tirely ignorant and unconcerned. It was en-
titled, "Personal Experiences which led to my
Mission." Mrs. Duniway is extremely practi-
cal and matter-of-fact in all her views, argu-
ments and reasonings. She lectured without
notes or references of any description, and
never hesitated for a word, or seemed in the
least embarrassed. Her second lecture was
upon railroads etc., and she evidently under-
stood her subject in all its multifarious bear-
ings. Her description of the North-western
part of the United States, Oregon and Wash-
ington was extremely interesting. She enu-
merated the many advantages which would
accrue to benefit the country at large if this
grand and wealthy region could be connected
by railway with San Francisco and the East,
making Salt Lake the central point. The tim-
bers, the coal mines, the fisheries which are so
abundant there, these were all descanted
upon in her most glowing descriptive terms.
	MONDAY MORNING Aug. 7th, the Normal
Institute opened its annual session for eleven
days, it is under the management of Dr. J. R.
Park. There was a full attendance. Most of
the teachers are residents of Salt Lake County,
Weber and Utah Counties are next best repre-
sented. The exercises so far have been very
interesting and highly instructive, and must
confer material benefit on those who are atten-
tively and assiduously applying themselves to
the department of teaching or the acquire-
ment of knowledge. Prof. Maeser's lectures
on history and natural science are remarkably
solid and well worthy contemplation. The in-
structions in geography by Mr. Charles
Wright, are very good, and the illustrations
are clear and practical. Prof. M. H. Hardie
on the subject of reading expresses his views
and ideas in such a manner as to awaken much
interest in this important subject; it is the
prevailing idea of most persons that to be able
to pronounce all the hard words and observe
the pauses and punctuation marks, constitutes
a good reader. Perfect reading, like music,
must be harmonious or it grates upon the
finer senses like a song badly sung, or an in-
strument out of tune. Mr. G. M. Ottinger's
illustrations of drawing are happily rendered
and calculated to make impressions favorable
to that useful and beautiful art.
	THE LADIES' Centennial Territorial Fair
still continues attractive to visitors. Several
additions in woman's work have been brought
since the first opening; among these, one which
deserves mentioning is a Scripture pic[-]ure in
needle-work, by Mrs. M. E. A. Wat[--]ough,
representing the child Samuel when he comes
to Eli, having heard the voice of the Lord
calling him. The scene is well represented,
and very natural for the kind of work, which
of course is not equal to a painting in likeness
to life. The tambour needle-work by Mrs.
Wm. Matthews is something exquisite in
beauty and rarity. The silk work, laces, veils,
fichu, and handkerchiefs; all entirely of home


production are the most wonderful. We have
heard several strangers remark upon their ex-
cellence, and were indeed surprised that the
energy and perseverance of the sisters had ac-
complished such beautiful and meritorious re-
sults. If those engaged in the manufacture of
silk are only as patient as the coral insects who
possess only instinct to prompt them to labor,
and from the smallest beginnings form im-
mense reefs; then indeed may we look for won-
derful results. We advise everybody to go
to the Fair, you will certainly find many
things to admire, and in no other way, can you
in so short a time, judge of the energy the
taste and skill of the women of Utah. Miss
F. R. Snow and the ladies engaged there
spare no pains to make it interesting and at-
tractive.
	THE SILK ASSOCIATION met Aug. 1st. at the
Fireman's Hall, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
Mrs. Young cautioned those sending cocoons
to the society to be sure they were properly
dried, and floss them carefully. The cocoons
should not be moved off the rack or brush for
eight days, then they should be placed where
the sun would shine on them at least a week:
save the very best and finest cocoons to raise
seed from, and each one should raise more seed
than needed for his or her own use. What
was most needed now was the planting out of
mulberry trees; this branch of industry should
receive due attention and encouragement.
Mr. Paul A. Schettler said he felt sure the
raising and manufacture of silk here could be
made a success, and he was glad to see the
progress already made. Mrs. Dunyon gave
her experience in planting out mulberry cut-
tings, she advised sandy soil and to shade
them from the sun, at first to water them well
and for the first and second winter to lay
some straw over them. Mr. Groves said he
had good luck in raising silk worms and had a
fine grove of trees, the difficulty with him be-
ing he had not room enough. Miss E. R.
Snow said that to make a successful industry
of silk raising would require a vast amount of
perseverance and patience, and it could not be
accomplished without a united effort of the
people. She remembered hearing the Prophet
Joseph say the time would come when the peo-
ple of the world would come to Zion to buy
the finest of fabrics, said strangers had spoken
very highly of the samples of silk in the La-
dies' Fair. In Brigham City they thought of
making the raising of silk one branch of their
home industry another year. Mr. Smith, Mrs.
E. S. Barney, Mrs. E. Shipp, Mrs. M. A. White
and Mrs. Smith each gave a little of their ex-
perience in this industry and the result. The
next meeting of this association will be held
to-day, Aug 15th, at three o'clock at the same
place, such arrangements will then be made
as will be necessary for the advancement of
the society and a permanent organization ef-
fected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		45


NINETY-TWO.

	Miss Rhoda Richards celebrated her birthday
on Tuesday the 8th inst. She was ninety two
years old; and notwithstanding the heavy
rain fall, which commenced about mid-day,
two o'clock found a number of sisters assem-
bled at her humble dwelling, to offer congratu-
lations and kind wishes. A quiet little bless-
ing meeting was conducted, in the midst of
which the following pleasant note was receiv-
ed:
		Salt Lake City, August, 8th, 1876,
Sister Rhoda Richards,
					City;
My dear Cousin:
	The condition of the weather is such that I


do not think it wise for me to leave home. I
shall therefore be debarred the pleasure of call-
ing on you this afternoon and offering my con-
gratulations and blessings on this the anniver-
sary of your birthday. Permit me however,
by means of pen and ink to express my kind-
est feelings and regards, with the hope that
abundant blessings may continue to abide with
you to the latest days of your life upon the
earth, and increase with you throughout a
never-ending future of joy, happiness and ex-
altation. Such is the heartfelt prayer of your
Brother in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant.
					BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	After choice blessings had been asked for and
pronounced upon the aged hostess by all pres-
ent, she said she did not wish to take all the
blessings to herself, but desired that her sisters
should also be blessed. Accordingly a bless-
ing was pronounced upon each in turn by the
others. At the close of this sacred and joyous
interview, the company sat down to a well-
filled table, and feasted bodily as well as spirit-
ually. When the repast was finished, Sister
Zina D. Young, in a sweet and beautiful pray-
er, returned thanks to the Giver of all good,
for the blessings of the day, and asked for a
continuance of God's mercies to His people.
Sister Rhoda gave an invitation for all to
be present at the next anniversary of her
birthday, and with affectionate adieus the com-
pany dispersed.


For the EXPONENT.
DEPENDENCE AND INDEPENDENCF.

	I often wonder why it is that women
will be so dependent. Why they think, or
at least a great many of them, that it is
their calling to be dependent upon man-
kind for all they have or are in this world,
imagining that it looks more womanly to
depend upon the sterner sex for a name and
standing in society, than to go to work and
earn it. Is it because that men as a gener-
al thing, have taught them that dependence
upon them is necessary; that a weak,
languishing woman with hardly life enough
to laugh a good hearty laugh, one, who if
left to depend upon herself would find her
staff of support very frail, is more to be ad-
mired, than one who has been taught to be
self-reliant, and who can, if necessary, earn
not only a livelihood: but a name which will
be honored by all. Bah! I get perfectly dis-
gusted with womankind when I think how
little independence there is among them.
There are so few who will think, or act for
themselves. It is my candid opinion that
this would be a happier world if there
were a few more independent women in it.
	JUNE.


THE LADIES Centennial Fair is still open
and seems to be a successful enterprise.
The variety of woman's work exhibited
there, speaks volumes for the women of
Utah, for their industry, energy and un-
flinching faith and perseverance. The
samples of straw goods are indeed very su-
perior in quality and taste. The cabinet of
curiosities and wonderful collection of min-
erals and specimens are worthy the atten-
tion and admiration of all. Varieties of
lace and silk work which have been created
and brought to perfection from the ele-
ments in Utah, are indeed beautiful and
worthy of commendation. Tidies, Anti-
macassars, curtains, bed-quilts, rugs, car-
pets of almost every variety, are there in
abundance.


This is positive proof that almost any-
thing can be accomplished by united efforts
and energy of purpose.


MAN'S DUTY TO WOMAN.

	Let him learn to be grateful to woman
for this undoubted achievement of her sex,
that it is she, she far more than he, and she,
too, in spite of him, who has kept Chris-
tendom from lapsing into barbarism—kept
mercy and truth from being utterly over-
borne by those two greedy monsters, mon-
ey and war. Let him be grateful for this,
that almost every great soul that has led
forward or lifted up the race, has been fur-
nished for each noble deed, and inspired
with each patriotic and holy aspiration, by
the retiring fortitude of some Spartan or
more than Spartan—some Christian mother.
	Moses, the deliverer of his people, drawn
out of the Nile by the King's daughter, some
one has hinted, is only a symbol of the way
that woman's better instinct always outwits
the tyrannical diplomacy of man. Let him
cheerfully remember that though the
sinewy sex achieves enterprises on public
theatres, it is the nerve and sensibility of
the other that arm the mind and inflame
the soul in secret. "A man discovered
America, but a woman equipped the voy-
age." So everywhere; man executes the
performance, but woman trains the man.
Every effectual person, leaving his mark on
the world, is but another Columbus, for
whose furnishing, some Isabella, in the form
of his mother, lays down her jewels, her
vanity, her comfort.—Rev. E. D. Hunting-
ton.—Ex.


THE FITNESS OF THINGS.

	The middle-aged lady who adorns herself
with diamonds on full dress occasions does
what is perfectly right and proper; but good
taste is outraged at sight of a girl of fifteen
wearing these jewels. It is no uncommon
thing to see school-girls, from the ages of
ten to eighteen, wearing diamonds on their
fingers and in the ears. A young girl does
not think her toilet complete without dia-
mond ear-rings and at least one diamond
ring. Then as she gets richer, come hair
ornaments, crosses, and lockets made of the
precious stones. In European countries it
is not until a woman has attained to years
of maturity that she wears diamonds, and
even then not unless she is very rich. In
this country no one is too young to wear
them, and scarcely too poor for many wo-
men who live in small houses up back
streets, appear at church or the opera glit-
tering in diamonds. One lady who is not
able to afford a servant, when she gets up
in the morning puts on a calico wrapper,
but that does not prevent her arraying her
self in diamond ear-rings, breast-pin, and
finger rings, with which she performs her
household tasks. Bad taste of this sort is
positively vulgar.—Ex.


THE PRINCESS Louise will again this year
it is said, have some work in the Royal
Academy. Her bust of the Queen stands
perpetually in the sculpture room, and a
very good bust it is. Most probably her
new work will be a picture. She has of
late been studying very hard at South Ken-
sington, and has enlivened many a class
there by her chattiness and love of fun.


46		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	JOHNSONVILLE, WARREN Co., IND.
					        July 3, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	DEAR LADIES:—The second number of
your excellent paper was received, and I
was well pleased with its high moral tone.
It was not just what I had expected to see,
coming from your city. I am more than
surprised at the interest manifested by
your women on the subject of reform, and
the up-building of the cause which you
have espoused, together with your co-opera-
tive system of doing business. I can but
admire the spirit evinced in the good
works.
	I have been reading some of your books:
"Voice of Warning," by Parley P. Pratt,
and two sermons by Orson Pratt, one of
which was highly instructive, and am now
perusing the Book of Mormon. I shall be
better posted by and by, particularly if I
could have the Elders to teach and explain
the Scriptures according to your views. I
might after a while be constrained to say—
"Almost thou persuadest me to be a Mor-
mon." The women of your community
cannot be much oppressed, when they have
the right of suffrage, and a paper entirely
devoted to their interests. That is more
than we can say, for we are not allowed to
vote even on questions directly concerning
us.
	In conclusion I will remark that, If you
carry out the doctrines taught and preached
by your Elders, you cannot be a bad people.
	Let me hear from you again, at least
through the columns of your paper, if you
cannot find the time to write.
	I shall be very happy to have your paper
for the rest of the year.
	Wishing you success in your enterprise
I remain				Very truly yours,
							M. L. Johnston.

				LOWELL, MASS.
						July 27, 1876
MY DEAR AUNT:
				The scenes I have had the
pleasure of witnessing and the people I have
seen, if aptly described, would perhaps in-
terest you and the other friends at home,
but I am not very good at descriptive letter
writing, and will leave you to the papers for
the Exhibition and the notables who attend
it. There are some things that don't often
get into the papers that interest me more,
and I love to write to you about, for your
appreciation of the work that absorbs the
attention and is the delight of missionaries
makes it a pleasure to write you. Of course
I have not done much preaching while trav-
eling from one great city to another, but oc-
casionally I have had opportunity to advo-
cate our doctrines to some of the people who
travel by my side in the cars, whom I meet
in the boarding houses and hotels, in the
art galleries and museums, viewing monu-
ments and parks, and in the various associ-
ations that are formed by travellers.
	Since I came to New England I have
been devoted to a few poor, humble British
Saints,' who, crowded in the back streets of
the manufacturing towns are trying to live
in their old English style at American
prices, and are consequently, with good
wages, getting in debt, and getting farther
from Zion than they were before they left
their Albion shores. Still a spark of that
fire, that fills the soul with light and the
hearts of the people with love, is found
glimmering in their breasts, and when you

[Column 2]
speak to them encouragingly, it revives,
and glows and sparkles in their eyes like
burning coals. But when we go away it
smoulders again, and the ashes of discontent
envelop and almost smother it out. Again
and again has this fanning and cooling pro-
cess been experienced by them, and will
continue I suppose until the last. I wish the
Saints in the world could have a foretaste
of the experience that is necessary for them
to pass through when they are gathered.
I think it would be easier for them to com-
prehend the reality of their religion more
than they do at the present. The Lord has
queer material with which to work, but I
suppose it is the best He can get. Only the
poor and lowly have time to entertain the
homely truths of the old fashioned gospel of
Jesus. It is enough for the rich and learn-
ed to meditate upon the glittering bubble,
conjured up in the minds of enthusiasts, and
surmounted by the golden cross and brazen
image, which the truth-denying, self-loving,
prophet-denying, mis-called Christian priests
present to them as the gospel of peace,
and effigy of salvation.
	The Lord's economy in taking the very
lowliest of all people with which to perform
His work, is of course the best, for if they
were not already humble, He would have
to bring them down; and often material is
worn out before a vessel of either beauty or
utility can be formed of it, for the reason
that there is so much of the brittle, refuse
matter mixed with it, that the process of
expunging it wastes away the rest.
	I think that the Centennial year of our
nation's independence presents to the
Saints a condition of society throughout
the world, peculiarly interesting, in view
of the pointed, prophecies of which it is the
realization and fulfilment. The civilized
nations, particularly our own FREE country,
and the savages of our country, are des-
cribed better than most writers of the pres-
ent can describe them, and yet the scene we
witness was foretold over a thousand
years ago. There is no more satisfactory
nor interesting reading than the prophets
of the East and West, particularly the lat-
ter. The changes that are to transpire in
the immediate future, we see from these
writings before their actual advent, and are
prepared for them; and with assurance of
safety for ourselves, we take out our pencils
and books and proceed to chronicle the ful-
fillment of inspired words of other ages. I
think those who are interested, will find
matter in this Centennial year to occupy
their leisure moments in narrating for the
benefit of future generations.
	Excuse so long and rambling a letter.
	Give my love to all the folks.
	May the Lord bless you and guide you in
all your labors by the inspiration of His
Spirit, is my desire.


[COLUMN 1]

Yours affectionately,
	JUNIUS F. WELLS.

PROVIDENCE, CACHE Co.
	July 26, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized April
27, 1868, under the counsel of Bishop W.
Budge. From that time up to the present
it has progressed very favorably. We have
endeavored to do all in our power to comfort
and bless the poor, the widow, the father-
less and the sick. We hold regular month-
ly meetings beside special ones which are
called on certain occasions. The sisters
manifest a kind and affectionate spirit to-
wards each other, willing to listen to and

[COLUMN 2]

practice the instructions that are given to
them. We have a kind, motherly, kind-
hearted sister for President, (Margaret
Matthews) who is always on hand to render
all the assistance she can, both temporal
and spiritual; to wait upon the sick, and
comfort those that mourn; this can be said
of all its members, for we desire to be one
with all our sisters in the labor of love; to
be useful in our day. We need not think
that we have nothing to do, it is not so; it
is true our brethren are called to go on mis-
sions to the nations of the earth to preach
the gospel, and to bring the Saints to Zion,
and we are permitted to remain at home to
take care of our families and to receive the
Saints that may come into our midst, to
teach and instruct them in the duties of
life. We see the necessity to encourage
HOME MANUFACTURE; we have quite a
number of young ladies learning to braid
straw. They have been quite busy during
the past season making hats and straw
trimmings, which is leading in the right
direction, for we sisters in the country are
obliged to use economy, for we are not like
our sisters in the large cities whose hus-
bands are merchants or clerks, etc., that
receive very large salaries, from $150 to
$300 per month, and mechanics that receive
from four to five dollars a day, whereas our
husbands that follow farming raise a little
wheat, potatoes, &c. &c., and if we did not
use economy we should never be able to
sustain our families. But you may say—
when we visit our sisters in the country
it seems by all appearances that they are
getting rich and able to build comfortable
houses to live in, and make other improv-
ments, while we in the cities (with all the
large salaries) can hardly live. Let us for
a moment look into this, and compare notes.
In the first place, who are these that go to
the theatre with their families, that go to
the grand balls in the winter season, that
dress up in the highest style, some of whom
pay from fifteen to twenty dollars to have a
dress made up for their wives and daugh-
ters? Who are they that send their sons
and daughters abroad to be educated? Do
they belong to the Saints that live in the
rural districts of this Territory? Oh no.
They belong to those persons who are in
prosperous business, or receive large sal-
aries. Is it true when they say they hard-
ly know how to live? Yes. They live so
extravagantly they are not able to pay their
tithing and their offerings to the Lord that
are required of them as Saints. When I
reflect upon the circumstances we are in as
Saints, surrounded with the blessings of
the Lord, and we make such foolish and
wicked use of them, and how ungrateful
we are for them, it seems strange that the
Lord is so good to us; how merciful He is
that He does not permit our enemies to
come upon us and drive us from our homes,
(which has been done frequently) how much
longer will the Lord bear with us as a peo-
ple? We are certainly as a people follow-
ing after the foolish fashions of Babylon.
	Our Society receives good advice and as-
sistance from our worthy Bishop, who is al-
ways ready to encourage us in our labors.
Our means are limited, but the sisters do-
nate all that is required to sustain the poor,
helping towards the missionaries and the
temple. We have shares in the Co-op. store
and have a first class knitting machine, with
which we intend to do all the knitting in
the place. The sisters made a quilt for the
Centennial, now we have sent it to the Fair
in Salt Lake City.
	At a recent meeting of the brethren some
expressed a desire that we should celebrate
the 24th of July. The Bishop proposed that


the sisters of the Relief society, assisted;
so the sisters met together and got up a
Programme, which was composed of speech-
es, songs and toasts; a sumptuous dinner
was given; about 300 persons including
children sat down; and in the evening a
dance, which finished the proceedings of the
day. All went off pleasantly, joy and glad-
ness beamed upon every countenance.
throughout the day. There were quite a
number of emigrants just arrived, and they
were cordially invited, with strangers from
other settlements. Among the speeches of
our brethren there were two missionaries
who had just returned from Switzerland
who spoke. They remarked they had just
returned from a mission and looked upon
their brethren and sisters in Zion, and com-
pared them, and their circumstances with
the condition of the Saints, there it was a
vast contrast; the Saints here could enjoy
life and be happy and comfortable, there
was nothing here to prevent them from
living their religion, but in the world it was
different; the Saints are poor and have to
work hard from morning till night, and get
hardly anything; and if those that are all
the time complaining and finding fault with
everybody and everything could be taken
back there it would do them good.
	The EXPONENT is very much appreciated
by those that take it here, and if more
would subscribe for it, it would be a great
benefit to them, because it contains articles
that are calculated in themselves to cause
us to reflect and meditate upon our conditions
as sisters and as mothers in Zion. There is
many an article that brings joy and peace to
those that read it, and I consider for myself
that it is one of the very best papers that
we sisters can subscribe for, it is very good
to have other papers in our houses (I mean
those that are good, or are edited by our
brethren) but for me, in my leisure moments
of reflection, give me the EXPONENT; there
I can find something to peruse suited to my
condition; some sister's letter wherein she
gives her experience of life in this church,
or her testimony on some certain principle,
which give new impulses to do good.
	Hoping that you will receive encourage-
ment in your labors in editing a paper so
useful among the Latter-day Saints,
				I remain Your Sister, &c.
					EMILY MADISON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				VISITING.

	There are three essentials which must be
understood and acted on before visits and
visiting will ever fulfill the idea of the
pleasure they ought to be and to give.
First, nothing must be done for parade or
show. No matter how rich a man may
be, if he sets on his dinner table one thing,
either to be eaten or looked at simply for
show, it is a challenge and offense. Of
course, nobody is so absurd as to maintain
that the rich must make dinners of herbs
because the poor cannot afford stalled oxen.
A very feast of good things, both for the
eye and the palate, can be set out without
any attempt at, or suggestion of mere par-
ade, mere display. There are plenty of
ways in which a man may advertise his
wealth if he likes, without doing it in his
hospitality. To do it there, or even seem
to do it there, is the very essence of vul-
garity, and real inhospitality. To avoid by
every possible device and by the utmost
tact, the bare suggestion that the guest is
the recipient of and not conferrer of favors,
is the first principle of entertainment. To
ask a man to your house and treat him as if
he were inspector of wines or tax gatherer

[Column 2]
on silver, is a piece of very coarse stupid-
ity; and to make a very great difference
between the way you live when you are
alone and the way you live when you have
friends under your roof, is surely a very di-
rect way of injuring one's self-respect, of
casting an unpleasant reflection on one's
own personal standard of taste.
	The second essential of the ideal visit
and visiting is, that the host not the guest,
set the limit of the visit. There is so false
a notion in this country on this point that
it almost seems as if it must spring out of
a national lack of directness and sincerity.
Everybody knows when he asks a friend to
his house, how long he wants him to stay.
There may be fifty reasons combining to
make him very glad of a visit three days
long, and very much inconvenienced by
one longer. Honest people ought to find no
difficulty in saying this and honest people
take no offense at hearing it. This does
away with all possibility of misconstruc-
tion on either side, with all uncertainties
as to welcome, with all fears of intrusion.
	A third essential of ideal visits and visit-
ing is that there be on the part of the host
no strained effort to entertain or amuse the
guest, on the part of the guest, no expecta-
tion to be amused or entertained. Simply
to meet for the interchange of good will
and cordiality, the usual current of life go-
ing on undisturbed, the habits of the fami-
ly remaining unchanged—that is the true
social visit. The man who knows how to
"drop in" of an evening draw his chair up
to your hearth as if it were his own, and
fall into the usual evening routine of the
household as if he were a member of it—
how welcome he always is! The man who
comes to stay under your roof for a season,
and who without being intrusive or famil-
iar, makes you feel that he is at "home"
with you, and is content in his usual fash-
ion of occupation—how delightful a guest
he is! And the houses—ah, how few of
them!—into which one can go for a day or a
week, and feel sure that the family rou-
tine is in no wise altered, the family com-
fort in no wise lessened, but on the contra-
ry increased by his presence—what joy it is
to cross their threshold! What good har-
bors of refuge they are to weary wanderers!
	When the world mends its ways in these
regards, when these essentials are fulfilled,
the lost art of conversation will revive;
hospitality will be worthy of its name; and
householding and housekeeping become, as
they ought to be, the greatest pleasure a
man can have.—H. H. in the Independant.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WHAT is that which flies high, lies low,
has no feet and yet wears shoes?—Dust
	THE woman of work sweeps everything
before her, while the woman of fashion
may be said to sweep everything behind
her.
	WHAT are our young men doing? (Ans-
wer.) Trying to lead a five pound exist-
ence on a two pound salary.
	BOGGS recently invested in a box of cigars.
He calls them tickets to a course of lectures
to be given by his wife.
	BROWN PERPLEXED.—Mrs. Brown tells
her husband not to sit in his shirt sleeves
or he will catch cold. How can a man sit
in his shirt sleeves?
	MRS. PARTINGTON expresses her appre-
hension that the people of the gold regions
will bleed to death, as the papers are con-
stantly announcing the opening of another
vein.


PATIENT, anxiously to doctors after con-
sultation:—"Tell me the worst gentlemen;
am I going to die?" Doctor: "We are divi-
ded on that question, but there is a majori-
ty of one in favor of your living."
	ONE GRAND object accomplished by the
visit of the Prince of Wales to India will be
the substitution of the Sanscrit, Arabian
and Persian languages for the Latin and
Greek classics at Oxford for the benefit of
Hindoo students and candidates for the In-
dian Civil Service.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Omelet:—To four well beaten eggs add one tea-
spoonful corn-starch dissolved in half teacup of
milk, one tablespoonful sugar, a little salt and
pepper; fry as an omelet.
	Lemon Cream Pie:—One cup sugar, one raw
potato grated, one cup water, one lemon grated,
and juice added, baked in pastry top and bottom.
This quantity is sufficient for one pie.
	To Extract Ink Stains:—Saturate the spots with
turpentine, letting it remain several hours; then
rub it between the hands, and the ink will crum-
ble away without injuring either the color or the
texture of the article.
	Furniture Polish:—One of the simplest and
best; get a bottle and fill with equal parts of boiled
linseed oil, and kerosene oil; mix and apply with a
flannel and rub dry with a second flannel. It
will remove all scratches and marks by bruising.
Destroy the rags after using, because they might
ignite spontaneously. An experienced house-
keeper recommends this polish, having used it her-
self for years.
	Cook and Housekeeper:—A good cook is not
the one who uses the most and and richest ingre-
dients, regardless of the expense; but she who
studies economy, and is able to concoct a delic-
ious meal from scanty materials. To be a success-
ful housekeeper, a woman requires as much sustem
and tact as she would to carry on any other busi-
ness.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Lightning Strokes:—Dr. Fothergill, says per-
sons struck by lightening are not always dead
when they appear to be so. There are few re-
coveries from it, because no means are tried to re-
store the sufferer. He believes that cold effusions
to the body has a decided action in such cases.
The free use of cold water under these circum-
stances cannot harm any one, and if only an oc-
casional recovery took place it would be well
worth the pains bestowed.
	Artificial Cooling of Roons:—M. Martin, in
the "Herald of Health" suggests a plan for the
cooling of rooms, which, it is affirmed, works ad-
mirably, especially for sick persons confined to
their bed or room. Open the windows wide and
hang wet cloths before them. The water as it
vaporizes absorbs the calorie, and lowers the tem-
perature of the apartment by several degrees,
while the humidity which is diffused renders the
heat much more supportable. By adopting this
plan even in the heighth of summer, you may re-
alize a freshened atmosphere, "analogous to that
which prevails after a storm."
	Liver Complaints:—The usual remedies are
iron, quinine, liquors, etc., but do not these do
more harm than good? One important item in
successful treatment of liver complaints should be
to find out its cause; there are a great variety of
causes, but among them all, perhaps our unwise
eating, sleeping and working habits have as much
or more to do with it than anything else, then the
best methods of cure, would be those which all
persons that are afflicted could apply for them-
selves, such as would b[-] eminently health-giving.


.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. CARABELLO, who died recently at
Canelones, Banda Oriental, had lived to the
extraordinary age of 120 years.
	MRS. JULIA N. Gott, of Ann Arbor, died
July 7, aged sixty years. She established
the first Young Ladies' Seminary in Ann
Arbor in 1840, and was herself a teacher in
the institution three years.
	MISS EMELINE Shepherd has on exhibi-
tion at Philadelphia a cambric handkerchief
the work of two years. It is embroidered
with a "fac simile" of Independence Hall,
a liberty cap and other national emblems,
valued at $500.00.
	SENORITA DONA Rosario Acunary Ville-
nueva has written and given to the public
in Madrid, a drama, founded upon "Rienzl
the Tribune, which has been very success-
fully played." The young lady is yet in
her twentieth year.
	MRS. ELIZA Esdaile, recently deceased,
was the only surviving daughter and child
of the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley by his ill-
fated wife Harriet Westbrook. She was
born in 1813, and could have no recollection
of her father; having been one of the three
children taken away from him by Lord El-
don, which circumstance called forth the
celebrated "Curse" to the Lord Chancellor.
	HON. MRS. Talbot of London, England,
has attained considerable celebrity in Wo-
mon's Work, by devising and practically
starting the "Parochial Mission Women."
She began this enterprise with three wo-
man, whose great and untiring labor in
ministering both to the physical and spirit-
ual wants of the poor in their own houses
were sufficient guarantees of the good faith
and earnestness with which Mrs. Talbot
forwarded the scheme. There are at present
183 of these co-workers, sincere and devot-
ed to the cause of carrying comfort to the
poor and unfortunate, and instructing them
concerning health and the management of
homes and children. "Mrs. Talbot is an in-
stance of the way in which all the great
questions of social politics are being met
and worked out by women, at the present
day, in England."


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	We the sisters of the Relief Society have
been having good times in my estimation
of late. We seem to be very united and
full of love for each other and willing to do
all we can for the cause and the kingdom.
We love our President and her counsel-
ors, and feel to be one with them in
all things. We are trying to strengthen
and aid each other, and we want to enlarge
on the right hand and on the left with all
the facilities we can bring to our aid. We
meet with our sisters in the south part of
the district once in two weeks and we en-
joy ourselves exceedingly. We had a most
enjoyable time yesterday the 24th of July.
We had everything arranged according to
our own ideas. The day was beautiful af-
ter lovely showers the night before, so we
had very little dust. The procession was all
that could be wished for. The twenty-four
old ladies looked splendid in their cos-
tumes, and I wish you could have seen our
girls, especially the Retrenchment Associa-
tion, they looked lovely, no long trains but
straw hats on their heads and white dresses,
plain and neat, and very becoming to
the "Daughters of Zion." It was all good
to me.
						E. MCKAY.
	Ogden, July 25, 1875.


A LADY asked her husband if her new
dress was not as sweet as a spring rose. He
said it was, even to the minor attraction of
having a little "due" on it.
	TRADE TOA[-]TS: A painter was at dinner
where several artists, amateurs and literary
men were convened. A poet, by way of
being facetious, proposed as a toast "The
Painters and Glaziers." The toast was
drunk, and the painter, after returning
many thanks for it, proposed "Success to
the Paper Stainers," and called on the poet
to respond.


FLOWERS.

	SIN forgiven is peace restored.
	IF there be any good in thee, believe
that there is much more in others.
	FAITH illuminates much of the darkness
of this world with the brightness of its re-
ligious consolations.
	HE who persuades himself to do that
which he ought to do, is a great orator.
	GOOD company and good conversation
are the very sinews of virtue.
	A HOUSE uninhabited soon comes to ruin,
and a soul uninhabited by the Holy Spirit
of God, verges faster and faster to destruc-
tion.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah. 

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four 
	doors below Walker House, and examine our 
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such 
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP.
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

