VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1876.	No. 13.


THE CHILDREN.

If the earth would be dreary without them,
	The world all a desolate waste,
What wonder bright angels about them,
	Call home to the Father in haste?
Oh mothers! your treasures most holy,
	Which seem not a virtue to lack,
Almost like "The Lamb" meek and lowly—
	What wonder God wishes them back?

What wonder he chooses the purest,
	The happiest, dearest, most blest?
In His home all things must be surest—
	He wants but the truest and best.
He plans for us immortal pleasures,
	As emblems our babies are giv'n
He kindly secures us our treasures—
	He knows we should want them in Heaven.

And wanting them, how we should murmur,
	Grieving ever as here for a day!
It is well He is wiser and firmer,
	Whose mandates we can but obey.
It is well he can bear with our weakness,
	And courage and comfort restore,
And teach us through patience and meekness,
	To find our loved darlings once more.

Think; mothers, when with them you've parted
	For a few short hour's time on the earth,
How at meeting they made you glad-hearted
	With their welcoming kisses and mirth;
And oh think! in the blest Resurrection,
	What joy to embrace them again.
How could such a scene be perfection
	Were the actors all women and men?

Oh! the children! our light and our blessings,
	Without them the world would be nought:
Through Nature's rich chambers and dressings
	Would sweetness all vainly be sought:
Our hopes and delights were all riven,
	We should know only doubt and despair:—
who would ask for a portion in Heaven,
	If children were not to be there?
		LULA.


AUTUMN WINDS.

		Air—Autumn Leaves.

Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	That sweep so sadly,
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	How hollowly ye sigh!
		Your ghostly, mournful music rolls
			Across the stubble lea,
		Like solemn notes the death-bell tolls
			When grand lives cease to be.

Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	Why must ye always mourn,
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	In wailing billows borne?
	
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	My spirit with you grieves;
Autumn winds, autumn winds
	Your tale my soul believes—
		This green-robed earth must naked be,
	And life of hopes be shorn,
		And broken hearts as lone as ye
	Thus bitterly must mourn;
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	Like you of heavenly birth,
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	They find no home on earth.
								LU DALTON.


[COLUMN 1]

OUR MODERN DORCAS

	There are, in our day, women whose
deeds compare favorably with Dorcas, who
lived in the days of Jesus' Apostles, who
was so beloved of the people; and whose name
has been perpetuated as synonymous with
benevolent associations down to the pres-

[COLUMN 2]

ent time. Writers of the day refer to this good
woman (Dorcas,) as a pattern of humility;
"doing what her hands found to do with all
her might;" which is no doubt a just con-
clusion, but to say she had no aspirations of
a higher nature, no thought of what her
work was accomplishing, that her brain was
not exercised as well as her heart and
hands, seems simply absurd. Women in
those times were endowed with intellect
and wisdom, and no doubt Dorcas under-
stood her vocation and worked with a pur-
pose, as the good sisters work in our day.
	This is perhaps merely an assertion, but
it has as much to sustain it, as the conclusion
drawn by the writers, who bring Dorcas for-
ward for such women to imitate, as have a
desire to vote, to legislate or "orate." She,
they affirm, had no ambitions for any of
these things. Now how do they know?
They were not there, and all they know of
her is a few words recorded in the Bible
from which they draw their own inference;
but being a woman and understanding a
woman's feelings, I should say she worked
for a purpose, no doubt that purpose was a
great one, and she was governed and guid-
ed by the circumstances of the time in
which she lived, and her devotion to the
cause she had espoused. The Savior when
upon the earth; taught the Gospel in its ful-
ness, and set the pattern for all to follow; in
many instances recorded in the New Testa-
ment, He manifested His great reverence for
women, and upon every occasion spoken of,
women were treated with affection and ten-
derness. This is particularly noticeable in
all His life and teachings. I am very will-
ing to believe that Dorcas was full of pious
zeal, that she worked with her hands and
made coats and garments for the poor, that
she comforted and blessed with good deeds
and acts of real kindness and loving words,
the widows and orphans. How beautiful is
such a life; how Christ-like the memorial of
such charity. "And all the widows stood
by him weeping and showing the coats and
garments which Dorcas made while she
was with them."
	How blessed is the work of such as live
to minister to others, forgetful of self, live
for God and His Kingdom. Surely the an-
gels have joy in watching over these prec-
ious, chosen ones, whose lives are devoted
to the noble and holy work of elevating,
purifying and refining the human family.
	In the Scriptures written by the Apos-
tles they recorded the things which
seemed most essential, but the acts and
charaties of women were almost left out,
although here and there they are mention-
ed in a casual manner, showing that their
good deeds were of common occurrence,
otherwise when these things were mention-
ed, the facts would be much more explicit.
	From the reading of the paragraph in re-
lation to Dorcas, one might infer that she
had filled some important position. There
is no doubt Dorcas had charge of some or-
ganisation for the poor, the widows and the
orphans, that her work was a great one, and
that when she died, they felt there was no
one to fill her place, and accomplish so much
good as she could have done. She was so
beloved by the people because she was ex-
tensively known for good works; as one that
ministered to the needy and desolate. Mod-

[COLUMN 3]

ern writers want us to believe that Dorcas
whom they hold up as a pattern for emula-
tion, stayed at home and stitched away for
the love of Jesus without any ambitious
ideas of what she would accomplish; "she
knew how to sew" which I suppose is inten-
ded as a hit for the Dorcas of modern
times, who does not sit and sew all day
and night too, and wear out her life, si-
lently and unobtrusively. I believe that
women should know how to sew, but I do not
believe in incessant stitching, and perhaps,
after all Dorcas may not have put in all those
stitches herself personally. We say Solo-
mon built the Temple, but we do not mean
by that assertion that he did it with his
own hands, but that he had charge of its
construction.
	There are those like Dorcas whose works
are manifest among us now, who are devot-
ing time, talents and means to the noblest
ends. Women whose names will be held in
remembrance, not only now, but hereafter.
Women whose deeds will shame those who
have had more abundant opportunities and
have not improved them. Is it not consist-
ent to honor these women whom we have
in our midst, who labor diligently with
head, heart and hands to promote the high-
est interests of the whole human family?
I believe it to be not only consistent but a
duty. Then while we esteem the Dorcas who
dwelt upon the earth so many hundred
years ago, let us also reverence those who
live in our day, who are giving their all
towards the work of benefitting and bless-
ing and preparing the earth for the millen-
nium.
	It is the custom of the whole world, to
extol the names of the dead and enumerate
their virtues, and let the living go unre-
warded; forgetful that they too are deserv-
ing of honor, and that a word of kindness
or appreciation, an acknowledgement of
their manifold labors would be far more ac-
ceptable to them while living than any trib-
ute to their memory after they are dead.
	It is recorded of Dorcas that she was
known for her "good works and alms'
deeds." Blessed record to be handed down
to her future generations; but there is a
duty to the living, and it would be well to
bear in mind that there are those in our
midst who have devoted themselves exclu-
sively to good deeds, and shall we wait un-
til they are dead to do them reverence?
Let it not be said of us who profess so much,
that we immortalize the names of the an-
cient Dorcas and yet we lack in doing our
duty and showing proper reverence to those
who are with us; if not, then what better
are we than the world? "Do not even the
publicans, the same?" We are said to be a
peculiar people, let us prove it by cherish-
ing those who devote their lives to the
work of the kingdom of God.
	THYRA.
S. L. City, Nov. 21, 1876.


No true artist ever worked yet for ambi-
tion. He does the thing that is in him to
do by a force far stronger than himself. The
first fruits of a man's genius are always free
from greed.


98		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov. 11,
was one which significantly illustrated in
its movements not only the "signs of the
times," but the implicit confidence the GOOD
SISTERS place in the teachings of their be-
loved Prophet and President. In the ab-
sence of the President of the Association,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselor E. R. Snow
presided over the meeting, and after the
reading of minutes from the different wards,
and other formula connected with a meet-
ing of this kind, Miss Snow called the at-
tention of the sisters to the proposition of
President Young to them as to the buying
and storing of grain. Miss Snow thought
it necessary to have a Central Committee,
who were chosen then and there and sus-
tained by the vote of the assembly. Miss
Snow made many appropriate remarks up-
on the subject, referring to the prophecies
of ancient and modern prophets, and to the
coming of the grasshoppers during the pres-
ent year. Her words were precious, and
would they were engraven on every heart
that more care and economy might be mani-
fest in the daily lives of the Latter-day
Saints. Counselor Zina D. Young spoke
upon this subject, also upon the persecutions
the Saints had endured in Missouri and
other places; said she wanted to see the sis-
ters become a mighty phalanx, giving
strength and support to the kingdom of
God. Counselor B. W. Smith, and Mrs. R.
R. Grant, President of the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society, expressed themselves in
reference to the great labors now being
performed by the sisters, and advanced
many good ideas in regard to the grain
movement. The subject of the Woman's
Book was laid before the meeting by Miss
Snow, and the sisters' aid solicited in be-
half of the publishing of it. The sisters
were also requested to hand in to Miss Snow,
or the author, Mr. E. W. Tullidge, any spe-
cial items in their lives, or spiritual mani-
festations which had been given them
which they considered strong testimonies
upon the principles of the gospel.
	These meetings become more and more
interesting and all who can make it conve-
nient to attend them will be able to form a
very good idea of the great work being done
by the women of Utah, and will be enabled
to receive such teaching and encourage-
ment as will direct their minds in a safe
channel, and help them to withstand temp-
tation.

			CENTERVILLE, DAVIS Co.,
					Nov. 17, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	On the 15th our Relief Society was fav-
ored with a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow
and E. S. Barney; they fed us with the
words of life, pointed out many duties that
rested on the women of the Latter-day
Saints to arouse a feeling of higher and ho-
lier purpose above the cares of every day
life; said that we had gathered out of Baby-
lon and we should leave Babylon behind,
and unite in the general good of Zion, and
be helpmeets to man in very deed; they
laid before us many items of business—lay-
ing up grain against a day of need, to assist
in publishing the Woman's book, to sus-
tain the Woman's store, silk-culture and all
home industries, anything that helps build
up the kingdom of God, all of which we in-
tend to do to the best of our ability.
	They were inspired with the Holy Spirit

[Column 2]
and infused it into the hearts of the audi-
ence; it truly seemed like angels, visits and
we trust the fire kindled will continue to
burn in our hearts till we are enabled to
perform all that is required of us. Our
Bishop was present, and bore his testimony
to the truth of their remarks; was pleased
that the sisters had come, and wished the
Society to prosper.
	At 2 o'clock p. m., the same day, we had
another meeting; Sister Snow organized a
Young Ladies' Society with twenty-five
members, including officers. We have se-
cured a few bushels of grain as a nucleus
to gather to. We have quilts, carpet, stock-
ings, socks, and some cash we intend to
donate to the temple; we attend to the
wants of the poor though we have but few
in our midst. We wish to bear our testi-
mony to the sisters and to the world that
the Latter-day work is true, including co-
operation and plural marriage; that it will
bring happiness to all who will live up to
its requirements.
	Wishing your valuable paper a circula-
tion in every home, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARGARET RANDALL, President,
		REBECCA A. PORTER,	} Counselors.
		EMELINE SMITH.		}

		MALAD CITY, ONEIDA Co.
					Nov. 1st, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	Our Society is in a prosperous condition,
the sisters wish to do right so as to keep
the spirit of the Lord with them. We feel
the need of teachings from the Fountain
Head, as there are not many here that have
been in a society before, and we are but
young in experience. We will write again
soon.
	From your sisters in the Gospel,
					JANE PRICE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH JENKINS, Secy.

	CENTERVILLE, DAVIS Co., Nov. 20, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Last Wednesday, the 15 inst., Sisters Eliza
R. Snow and E. Barney visited our settle-
ment and organized a "Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association." They met with
the ladies of Centerville at 2 o'clock, p. m.,
and appointed the following officers for the
association:
	Mrs. Kate Dalrymple, President,
	Mrs. Frankie Randall,	}
	Miss S. L. Smith,		} Counselors
	"	Hester Ford,		}
	"	M. E. Smith,		}
	"	Kate M. Chase, Secretary,
	"	Mary Parish, Assistant Secretary,
	"	Addie Woolley, Treasurer.
	Sister Wadoup was appointed Superin-
tendent.
	Our first meeting under the new organ-
ization was held at 2 o'clock on Saturday,
the 18th. There were present at the meet-
ing, beside the members, Mrs. M. Randall,
President of the Relief Society, and her
Counselors. Excellent and appropriate re-
marks were made by the President, Super-
intendent, Counselors and others. A lively
interest was manifested by all in the so-
ciety, and it promises to mature into a pleas-
ant and profitable institution.
	Forty members answered to roll call,
which is a fair indication of the desire felt
by all to assist in the progress of all such
enterprises as tend to instruct us, and facil-
tate the advancement of divine intelligence
among us.
			Yours Respectfully,
				KATE M. CHASE, Sec'y.

[Column 3]
				MANTI, Nov. 12, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In accordance with your expressed wish-
es, I take the present opportunity of inform-
ing you that the Relief Society of this place
has responded to the call in relation to stor-
ing grain.
	We have about fifty bushels on hand for
that purpose, and we intend to continue in
well-doing.
	We have a small store, organized last
April, with a capital of $200,000, which is in
a flourishing condition, notwithstanding
hard times, opposition, and other adverse
circumstances. We paid a dividend of 34
per cent for our first six months, ending
Oct. 21st. We have increased our capital
considerably by taking new shares, and hope
by wisdom, economy and the blessing of our
Heavenly Father to continue to prosper. We
also have ample means on hand to assist the
needy and destitute whenever we are call-
ed upon; and all things considered, our so-
ciety was never in a more prosperous con-
dition than at present.
	A good spirit prevails in our meetings,
and we feel that we are greatly blessed in
our endeavors to do good.
	Wishing you success in your laudable en-
deavors to arouse the sisters to a realizing
sense of the great responsibilities devolv-
ing upon them, I remain,
				Very Respectfully,
					A. L. Cox, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 19th Ward Relief Society held their
annual meeting Sept. 26. Sisters E. R.
Snow, M. I. Horne, Zina D. Young, B. W.
Smith, Presendia Kimball, Mercy Thomp-
son and Bishop A. H. Raleigh addressed
the meeting. Their remarks were replete
with words of instruction and encourage-
ment, and the counsel given, would, if fol-
lowed, aid us in bringing up our children in
a righteous manner, and help us to live
more faithful to our religion and to each
other. We were cautioned as mothers in
Israel never to speak lightly of the holy
and eternal principles of Plural Marriage,
for by that we are to gain our exaltation in
the Celestial Kingdom of our Father and
God. Our duty at the polls, the opening of
a store for the sale of home-industries, and
seri-culture, were also spoken of as matters
claiming our present and earnest attention.
	The yearly report of the society was read,
also the amount of donations and disburse-
ments of the society since the organization
of the society in 1869, which was as follows:
	Donations.......................... $ 2,138 61
	Disbursements..................    1,747 71½
	Balance...............................       390 90 ½
	For loan of Temple clothes        96 55
	There were others present, that we were
sorry time would not permit us to hear
from. At the close of the meeting, all pres-
ent were invited to partake of a picnic pre-
pared by the sisters of the Ward, and they
accordingly adjourned to the tables spread
with the bounties of the earth.
	With best wishes for the success of your
valuable paper—"OURS," as we consider
it,
	We remain yours, etc.
				A. A. PRATT, Pres't.
					A. E. NEAL, Sec'y.


MISS Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, has been
giving a series of lectures before the College
of Liberal Arts of Boston University, upon
"Representative Modern Fiction." The
Woman's Journal says George Eliot has been
discussed in four lectures."


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
AUTUMNAL THOUGHTS.

	The sad days come
	When to the tomb
Are borne the sweetest flowers,
	Which when in bloom,
	Threw rich perfume
Around this home of ours.

	It seems they're given
	As types of Heaven,
Those fragrant, beauteous flowers!—
	My soul's delight
	Is the cheering sight
They shed round summer hours.

	They have a voice,
	A silent voice,
That whispers to my heart,
	And to my brain
	In sweetest strain,
From which I sigh to part.

	How much we meet
	Sublimely sweet,
That's never told or written!
	But folds us round
	In bliss profound,
By heavenly breezes smitten!

	Now birds and bees
	Have ceased their glees,
All nature seems reposing;
	A moment, I
	Reflect and sigh
On the young eyes I've seen closing.

	And one stands chief,
	In bold relief,
Departing with the flowers!
	We laid her down
	In her floral crown
And returned to forsaken bowers.

	But spring will again
	Bring life in her train,
And the flowers their beauties resume,
	And the lov'd will arise
	With their glorious eyes,
And go forth in eternal bloom!

	When the resurrection
	Restores perfection—
Oh! day of consummate beauty!
	For it we can wait
	Yes, at any gate
With pleasure—and not "on duty."

	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]
	GENERAL MEETING OF CENTRAL
		AND WARD COMMITTEES,

		ON THE GRAIN MOVEMENT.

	The meeting was held in the Social Hall
on the 17th of November 1876. Called to
order, and opened with prayer by Mrs. E.
Howard. President of Central Committee,
Mrs. E. B. Wells, remarked as follows: "It
is very generally understood that this meet-
ing is called to discuss the GRAIN QUESTION,
It would be well to let our thoughts and
words be concentrated on the subject; we
want to make the best use of our time and
use all dispatch, that the sisters may get
home in good season. We would like the
Presidents of Relief Societies to let us
know what their ideas are on the subject.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: It is a very im-
portant occasion that has called us together,
probably such as never occurred on the
earth before. The Lord, through his pro-
phet, has called on the mothers in Israel to
prepare for a famine, which makes the sub-
ject we are called on to discuss a grave one.
We are well assured that the time is fast
approaching when the Lord will pour out
His indignation on this country, and al-
though we should escape, we will feel the
effects of it in a National capacity. Our
hearts must be hard indeed, if we will not
feel for those who may come to us for help.
The Lord showed his servant Joseph that
such things would come, and it was of such
a nature, and so distressing and revolting

[Column 2]
to humanity to witness, that he asked the
Lord to close it up. We can see, from what
has passed, that the predictions of the Ser-
vant of God, have been fulfilled to the let-
ter. He has now called on the women of
Zion to purchase and take care of wheat,
and I hope we may act with wisdom, that
the blessing of God may rest upon our la-
bors. We want to decide how to procure
the grain and take care of it; and whether
we will act in Wards or in a general capac-
ity; we have been told that there is room
in the Tithing Office to store it. But per-
haps some of the Wards have a good place
for storing; if so, and they prefer it, they
can do so.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: Bishop Hunter told
me we could store the wheat in the Tithing
Office, and that the wards could also if they
wished, as there was plenty of room unoc-
cupied now; but whatever we do there, we
will have to employ help, as the brethren
who labor there are all fully employed.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said: We have ap-
pointed a committee to visit in our ward.
They report that the feelings of the people
have been liberal and good. All we want
to know is what steps we are to take in or-
der to push the work forward. I feel that
the Lord will bless us in our undertaking.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells asked if any of the
sisters could inform the meeting where
wheat could be purchased.
	Mrs. W. East: I expect Mrs. Horne can
tell us where we can buy wheat, when
she returns from the South. I have been
told that the brethren residing in the coun-
try places, are awakening up, and see the
utilily of saving grain, and it may not be
a very easy matter for the sisters to procure
it. We held a meeting in the 14th Ward a
short time ago exclusively for this ques-
tion. The sisters feel the importance of the
mision and will do all in their power to ac-
complish it. We feel that the Lord will
open up the way for us to get wheat; and
that he will bless us in our efforts.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Goddard: I have heard
that wheat can be bought for a dollar a
bushel; and I think it would be well to take
flour also, it can be kept good in sacks for a
long time.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney: I can report from
three counties where they have no grain
for sale; Morgan, Summit and Wasatch,
were distressed with an early frost, which
destroyed nearly all their wheat; but feel
sure that we can make this business a suc-
cess.
	Mrs. R. Grant: The 13th Ward intend
saving grain. We have had a large bin of-
fered us for that purpose, which we will ac-
cept. It has long been preached that the
brethren should prepare for a day of famine;
it now seems as if the women were to have
a hand in it, and I hope the Lord will give
us strength to perform our work nobly.
	Mrs. Sarah Howard: I feel it is a priv-
ilege the Lord has given us, and we will try
and be united in it. For my part I will try
and do all I can, and I feel that the Lord
will open a way whereby we can obtain
grain, although it is late in the season.
Our Retrenchment Association has com-
menced a fund for that purpose, we will
work in concert with the 20th Ward Relief
Society.
	Mrs. Savage said: In the 20th Ward,
they intend doing the best they can to help
in this work, but just at the present time
there are no funds in the Treasury.
	Mrs. M. M. Hyde, 17th Ward, said:
We intend to build a hall for the use of our
Society; when we heard of this grain busi-
ness, we talked the matter over, and think
of making the hall smaller, and putting up

[Column 3]
a bin for wheat in part of it. I would just
suggest, that in the States, wheat some-
times spoils, through dampness, but our at
mosphere being so dry, I expect it would
keep good for some time."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: President Young said
the sisters were to solicit help from their
husbands and the brethren, for this purpose;
by that means we would be able to get
funds to purchase the wheat with.
	Mrs. Reid, of the 16th Ward, said: The
sisters of our Ward are willing to do all
they can to carry out counsel.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards: I think that if
we unite our means, and have one energetic
sister to buy up the wheat; and by hav-
ing one, two or three hundred dollars, quite
an amount could be procured, and I think
would be better than being mixed up in
wards.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: What I have to
give, I intend putting it with the bulk. I
know no separate interest. I hope energet-
ic sisters will be appointed to attend to it;
one or two in each ward say, or a commit-
tee be formed, as may seem necessary.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells remarked: I presume
all the boards of the Relief Society will co-
operate in this work, and I think it will be
well for us to unite.
	Mrs. Chase of the 1st Ward: I have
talked on this subject in our meeting, and
we intend to unite with the rest in what-
ever plan they may suggest. I have a large
bin in which a great amount of wheat
could be stored; perhaps all we could get
this year. We have quite a number of
poor, but will be able to help some in all
good calls. At one time my husband put up
a good deal of wheat but after some time
the weevil spoiled it. But I hope we can
plan some way to take care of that which
the Lord will bless us with.
	It was then moved and seconded that a
general committee be appointed to purchase,
but that will not hinder wards from hav-
ing ward committees.
	The following ladies were elected as a
purchasing committee: Mrs. E. S. Barney,
Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: Let every sister
secure and store away every bushel of
wheat that it is possible for her to obtain.
She also said it will be necessary to have a
Treasurer in some central place. Mrs. P.
M. Staines was sustained as Treasurer.
	It was proposed that a record be kept of
the proceedings in each ward, every name
and donation put down in a distinct man-
ner.
	It was suggested that we commence at
once and have no delay about it. In Manti
they have put up 60 or 70 bushels, and we
can't be too prompt in this matter. Many
of the brethren seem to wish to help us.
	Mrs. Mercy Thompson [---]: Flour that
is well sacked and kept in a dry place would
keep as well, if not better, than wheat. I
have some flour now using, that has been
sacked four years, and it is as good, if not
better than new flour. I know that the Lord
will bless us in our undertaking.
	Considerable business was transacted in
regard to the Woman's Book about to be
published; and the propriety of the sisters
making a carpet for the Historian's Office
was taken into consideration and the sisters
donated liberally for that purpose.
	Meeting adjourned until Nov. 24th, at 3
o'clock p. m. Sung "The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning." Benediction by Mrs.
Rachel Grant.


IN, what ship has the greatest number of
people been wrecked?—Courtship.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms. One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
[---] Ten copies for the price of nine; Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHERS, WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

THE NATIONAL PUZZLE.

	First, who is elected President? And second-
ly, how is the fact to be demonstrated? Third-
ly, is it to be determined by the civil powers,
or by military force? No wonder people are
becoming confused on the subject, for confus-
ion reigns supreme, and if dissolution is not the
result of haranguing for reformation and
amendment, constitutionally why then Amer-
ica is surely exceptionally lucky. If only
some good fairy would whisper in the anxious
listening ear of some popular editor, whose
nerves are strained to the highest tension, or
touch, with magic hand the Electric Telegraph
and send the news throughout the length and
breadth of the country, now anxiously waiting
the grand national denouement, it would be a
most commendable and praiseworthy action.
Alas! the people of this highly enlightened
nineteenth century are too matter-of-fact to
believe in fairies or magic, and too self-confi-
dent to put their trust in an over-ruling power
who the Scriptures affirm, holds the nations in
His hand, and Who has declared he will turn
and overturn until the kingdoms of this
world become the kingdoms of God. So peo-
ple will go on wondering and puzzling and
querying what is to be the result of this pecu-
liar crisis in national affairs.
	It is not strange that people get muddled in
trying to solve the mystery, for there never
was a more vexatious riddle propounded to the
American nation.
	All the reports which have been received
from the different states since the Tilden party
were so positive of his election have been con-
tradictory ones. On every side arises difficulty
in determining the facts, or arriving at a just
decision, and the only way out of it, is to de-
clare the law, pertaining to presidential elec-
tors incomplete.
	This is the only policy left them to pursue
that will not implicate the governing powers.
One party may of course cry out against the
dishonest proceedings of the other, but when
both know themselves to be equally in fault,
what policy so clear as to lay the fault of the
evil issues upon their predecessors who formed
for them a government and constitution of
laws, surpassing all other existing forms, and
yet, (for their wicked purposes,) inefficient.
	And so the great American nation has made
such gigantic strides in advancement (corup-
tion) that they need another amendment to
meet the emergencies of this case. All these
things to those whose eyes are open to "the
signs of the times" are direct indications of
the approaching crisis, which will eventually
result in the final overthrow of all govern-
ments. Some powerful agency which the
world cannot understand is now manifesting

[COLUMN 2]

itself and producing sensations of fear
among the masses of the people, and some
have been so strangely impressed with fore-
bodings of evil, they have recalled the fire-
side tales told them in their childhood, and
shrink with trembling at the anticipation of
another political revolution. The wisest and
shrewdest of political men express themselves,
that when the truth is ascertained about the
election then something may be foretold in
regard to the work which will come be-
fore the House of Congress the ensuing season;
but when the scale will turn or what may yet
transpire, with all the party feeling that now
pervades the public mind still remains inexplic-
able. One thing is apparent to those whose
minds are opened to the light of truth, and
that is that the adversary is striving for mas-
tery in the hearts of the children of men, that
instead of peace, he will, if possible bring war,
and as a natural consequence of war, famine,
pestilence and plague. If this nation would
receive the testimony of the servants of God
many of the difficulties might be avoided; but
they are wise in their own conceit and harden-
ed in their hearts, and as kings and rulers of na-
tions refused to listen in ancient times, so do
they now reject that which would bring them
prosperity and happiness. But Babylon must
fall, and everything seems conspiring to bring
about the fulfillment of the prophecies quickly.
Already are nations of the greatest power and
strength preparing for war and ultimately a
war in which all nations will become engaged
will be the result. In contemplation of these
fearful occurrences the saints should be wise
and seek more than ever for the spirit of God
to direct them, that they may indeed become
not only saviors of individuals, but assist in the
protection of the rights and privileges of na-
tions.
	It may seem to our readers that we have
wandered from the subject, but a question so
momentous in its issues may admit of elabor-
ate discussing.
	It has been advised by those who are anxious
to assist in arriving at the adjudication of the
great question now pending, that caution and
quiet would be "the better part of valor" that
both parties are weakening their own side by
making charges of dishonest dealings; that
positive proofs are the only real specific. If
these wise men can succeed in lulling the great
political tumult and clamor, we hope it may
not prove the precursor of a tremendous na-
tional thunder-bolt that will split asunder the
two opposing parties, so effectually that it will
be impossible to cement them together again,
without, as brother Heber C. Kimball used to
say, "throwing the clay all back into the hopper
and grinding it over.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	C. W. [-]ENROSE, editor of the Ogden Junc-
tion, and S. W. Sears, produce and grain mer-
chant, are gone on a business trip to San Fran-
cisco.
	WE HAVE recently received, through the
courtesy of the editor who was in Salt Lake
City a short time ago, as an exchange, "The
Watchman," published in Boston, Mass. It is
the second oldest newspaper in the State.
	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon, the people's Del-
egate to Congress, left this city for Washing-
ton, D. C., Tuesday morning, Nov. 27th. We
wish him a pleasant trip and success in his
efforts to maintain the national rights of the
people of the Territory of Utah.
	CORRECTION: IN THE EXPONENT OF NOV. 1,

[Column 2]
we published a report from Mill Creek Ward,
Salt Lake County, in which two mistakes oc-
curred accidentally: every second Thursday,
should read Tuesday; and the name of the pres-
ident of the association, instead of Mrs. Isabel-
la Carlisle, should read Mrs. Isabella Walters.
	THE UTAH Musical Times, No. 9, which we
have received, contains some choice and inter-
esting articles. "Write Your Thoughts," is one
which expresses clearly the true system of
writing for the press. The music is of home
production and speaks well for Utah's musical
talent. It gives many late dramatic notes
of interest. Utah may be justly proud of this
periodical.
	WE HAVE received a specimen copy of the
"Daily Hotel Gazette," a new publication in
San Francisco, California. It seems from its
variety of advertisements of business &c., to
be valuable for reference to travelers, etc.
They are using Miller and Richard type which
they strongly recommend. This manufactory is
a Branch of the Edinburgh Type Foundry,
and has on hand, beside Hard Metal Scotch
type, presses, and printing materials. Office,
No., 521 Sacramento St., San Francisco.
	AT THE General Retrenchment Meeting,
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Sat., Nov.
25, Elder Junius F. Wells, recently returned
from a mission to the United States, addressed
the assembly briefly. He expressed great joy
at the work in progress among the sisters, and
contrasted their ideas, feelings and knowledge
of the future, with the women of the world.
He manifested great interest in the Woman's
Book, believing it would open the eyes of an
enlightened class of society to the facts in re-
gard to the motives by which the sisters were
actuated.
	THE WOMEN of Utah have taken meaaures
to secure the publication of a BOOK which will
combine in one volume, the lives and testimo-
nies of the sisters as far as possible, from the
time of the rise of the church in Kirtland up
to the present day. Such arrangements have
been made as will ensure to every sister ample
returns for all money invested either in her
own name, or in connection with a Relief So-
ciety. It is expected this book will reach
many places, homes and individuals where
the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints, in what-
ever form presented, would not be tolerated;
for that reason it will do the most efficient
preaching to a certain class of people. Some
enthusiasm upon this subject would not be
amiss to assist in forwarding this laudable
work. The women of Utah certainly should be
able to publish their own lives. We hope to see
the sisters come forward and subscribe for this
immediately, that the work may be speedily
published and circulated.
	WE HAVE received from the author, a new
publication entitled "Overcome." The book
is published by Lovell printing and publish-
ing Co., New York. The writer is an Ameri-
can lady of prepossesing appearance and pecu-
liarly gifted in conversation. We had the
pleasure of meeting her here, when on her way
to San Francisco; she ran down to Salt Lake
for a day or two to see the "City of the Saints."
We return her our thanks for the book, and the
favorable notice given us in the "Chicago
Tribune." Her book is a gem in its way,
drawn from real life. It is a true tale, calcula-
ted to touch the heart, told in a charming and
pathetic style, and bears a similarity to many
incidents occurring in households all over the
country. If mothers and sisters can be in-
duced (and this is the author's noble design)
through earnest entreaty and the influence of


[COLUMN 1]

women of talent and their example, to discour-
age the drinking of wine, beer, or liquor in any
form at dinner-parties, social gatherings and
New Year's calls, a great deal might be accom-
plished for the cause of Temperance; for many
a young man, as the writer says, can trace his
downfall from all that was good and pure, to
the first taking of the social-glass. Mothers
and sisters, especially women of the Latter-
day Saints, let us entreat you to use all your
influence to do away with this foolish Gentile
custom, lest your hearts shall some day ache
as sorely as many hearts do now, throughout
the whole world from the effects of intemper-
ance.
	AT A MEETING of the Central and Ward
Committees, on the Grain Movement, held in
the Social Hall, Friday, Nov. 24th, many im-
portant ideas were advanced in a clear and for-
cible manner by those who spoke upon the sub-
ject. Reports from different wards were given
in regard to the movement and such sugges
tions as seemed applicable to the time an
place, from many presidents of Relief Socie-
ties from the several wards. It seemed that in
several of the wards they had good granaries
to store in separately, which will of course; be
an advantage in some respects, for there wil
be a better opportunity of preserving it from
damp, or mice, or weevils, or any of the an-
noyances that attend the storing of grain in
large quantities together.
	Miss E. R. Snow, of the Central Committee,
in her remarks, referred to having recently
visited Brigham City, and that her brother,
who is president there (Lorenzo D. Snow,)
thought this movement of the sisters a step in
the right direction. Br. F. D. Richards, of
Ogden had said to her, he thought what the
sisters did this year in regard to buying grain
must be done immediately as there could be
nothing done after Christmas. There are many
of the brethren in authority, Bishops and oth-
ers, who have spoken kindly and favorably to
the sisters, and given the movement their
hearty endorsement. A spirit of energy and
enterprise is manifest among the sisters to in-
vest their means in such a manner as shall be
approved by heaven. Not all the laces and
silks in the world could compare with bread
stuff in the time of scarcity.
	Mrs. W. East of the 14th ward, when she
rose to speak, said she was sure that the Lord
had called upon the sisters to act in this ca-
pacity. Spoke of a brother who had a speci-
men of wheat he had kept for twenty five
years, and that it was perfectly good. Those
who are not of us, scoff and sneer, but the sis-
ters should be independent of all outside influ-
ences, and take hold of the subject with that
fortitude and courage that will warrant suc-
cess.
	FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co., Nov. 24th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Mrs. S. I.
Holmes, I send you a report of what we are do-
ing in regard to the grain question. At our
meeting two weeks ago last Wednesday, she
read the editorial containing President Young's
counsel and suggestions and some other pieces
from the Exponent, explaining to the sisters
what is required of them; said she felt like
commencing right off, so that we should not
be behind in this great work. At first it was
thought best to build a granary that we might
have a suitable place to put the grain collected;
but afterwards, through advice and the kind-
ness of the brethren, one was found already
built which we can have the use of, therefore
saving the means which it would take to build
to buy grain.

[COLUMN 2]

	At the meeting it was suggested that a com-
mittee be appointed to visit the men in the
ward to see what they would do to help us;
the suggestion was carried and a good report
brought in. The majority of the brethren en-
tered into the spirit of the mission, and either
donated means or labor.
	Some of the brethren felt quite humbled to
think the women should undertake what the
men had failed to do; but I feel to offer a word
of encouragement to all such. The words of
Prest. Heber C. Kimball, which come to my
recollection, I think should suffice, wherein he
prophesied that the time would come when
the sisters would store up the grain and pota-
toes. I do not think that any good woman
would take the praise to herself, or think she is
better than her husband, on account of this
move that has been made. I feel that we
should work together, for the man is not with-
out the woman in the Lord, nor the woman
without the man; which is according to Scrip-
ture.
	The Society of Farmington have some grain
on hand and means to buy more, and do not
think of slackening up their energies in the fu-
ture.
	I wish to speak a word in favor of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Association in this place.
They have a faithful president in Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, and hold their meetings once a week;
they also have a paper of their own composi-
tion, called the "Index" which is both instruc-
tive and interesting. They also read selected
pieces in their meetings. The younger portion
of the members are quite zealous, so much so,
that they can hardly be induced to stay away
from meeting under any consideration.
	Excuse me for being so lengthy.
	Yours &c.
		A. S. ROGERS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		101


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	The new movement in regard to grain is one
which should receive the hearty commenda-
tion of the Latter-day Saints. It is part of our
religion to practice consistently the laws of
life and health. If we do not do this we are
not sustaining the laws of God. for He has
made all laws devolving upon each other so
perceptibly, that if we transgress one, we are
sure to infringe upon others. We could not
possibly carry out the design of our Creator
unles we preserve our bodies, for the first great
commandment given to man after the creation
was to "multiply and replenish the earth."
In order to do this we must have well preserv-
ed faculties and physique, otherwise we are de-
generating and falling away from the pattern
given us to follow. "And God created man in
His own image." It seems to me that to be
made in the likeness of God is something
which every individual should hold in rever-
ence, and it ought to be an incentive to purity
in the preservation of life, and thus give us op-
portunity for such knowledge as shall help us
to obtain a part in that higher life which will
be the ultimate result of our being upon the
earth.
	The Lord caused the earth to bring forth of
her fruits for the sustenance of the beings
which He placed upon it, and it has been ful-
filling the laws of its creation for many thou-
sand years. But we who believe the Scriptures
and the prophets of our own day know that
great changes are to take place, before the rev-
olution of all things which will usher in the
millennium. One of the most distressing of
those changes will be famine, and we have
been warned and forewarned of its coming,
yet the people, as in the days of Noah and oth-


ers, reject the testimony of the Servants of
God, and still pursue their every-day life, care-
less of the future, and regardless of the teach-
ings and testimonies vouchsafed to them for
safety.
	It is sufficiently apparent to every sensible
woman that if the famine were right upon us,
we are not prepared to sustain our own people
here in this Territory, and that we should feel
it as severely as others. But if we heed the
call made upon us by the servant of God, ap-
pointed to dispense His word unto the people
in due season, then we shall act wisely while
we have a day of grace given us; but let us not
dally or trifle away time and opportunities,
but seek with all diligence to store up an
abundance of grain for ourselves and our friends
who have jeered and ridiculed us and our re-
ligion. Let us exercise that charity that will
not only feed the hungry, but make the need-
ful preparations beforehand, that we may min-
ister to them in a substantial and proper man-
ner.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells
								EMILE.
S. L. City, Nov. 24, 1876.


THE LAW OF NEWSPAPERS.

	1. Subscribers who do not give express no-
tice to the contrary are considered as wishing
to continue their subscriptions.
	2. If any subscribers order the discontinuance
of their newspapers, the publisher may con-
tinue to send them until all arrearages are paid.
	3. If subscribers neglect or refuse to take
their newspapers from the offices to which
they are directed, the law holds them responsi-
ble until they have settled the bills, and order-
ed them discontinued.
	4. If subscribers remove to other places with-
out informing the publisher, and the newspa-
pers are sent to the former direction, they are
held responsible.
	5. The courts have decided that refusing to
take newspapers from the office, or removing
and leaving them uncalled for, is "prima facie"
evidence of intentional fraud.
	6. The postmaster who neglects to give the
legal notice of the neglect of a person to take
from the office the newspapers addressed to
him, is liable to the publisher for the subscrip-
tion price.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN SOME of the places where women are
not permitted the right of the ballot, they
have made public demonstrations of their
sentiments in political matters by "flinging
to the breeze" flags bearing the names of
the candidates for the presidency, of the
party they wished to sustain. In one or
two places, they held political meetings and
discussed the subject and the probability of
its success.
	THE GREAT CYCLONE.—This terrific
wind storm that recently devastated a large
tract of country in the East Indies, com-
pletely submerging three large and four or
five small islands, is one of the most fearful
calamities ever known; and should be an
effectual warning to the living. The loss of
life is estimated by some at about a quarter
of a million. The destruction of property
is incalculable, but added to all this, and
the most heart-sickening, is the famine
which inevitably follows such unlooked-for
occurrences. The atmosphere, too, near
where the dead bodies are, is so polluted
that pestilence is almost sure to result.


102		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DESCRIPTION OF CHRIST

	LETTER OF PUBLIUS SENTILUS TO THE
			SENATE OF ROME

	There is a man among us who is called
Jesus Christ. He is accepted of the people
as a prophet. His own disciples say he is
the Son of God. He heals the sick, restores
sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, and
raises the dead. In conversation he is mild
and amiable; his carriage is graceful and
modest; in reproving he is terrible, yet gen-
tle and forgiving. In person he is tall and
comely; his nose and mouth are beautifully
formed; his chin a model of Grecian Sculp-
ture underlaying a heavy beard; his eyes
like diamonds, indicating great wisdom
and penetration, comprehending everything
at a glance; bespeaking great compassion for
the poor and unfortunate. His hair waves
in flowing curls over his shoulders in orien-
tal style after the manner of the Nazarites.
He has not been known to laugh, but fre-
quently weeps; in short his whole form and
carriage are without blemish and his exte-
rior beauty surpassing all the sons of men.


FROM HAWAII

EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS BY MRS.
JANE E. MOLEN.

[CONCLUDED]
	It is Saturday, but I shall teach, to make
up for last Monday, which was the "Twenty-
Fourth." Our good brethren celebrated
it in honor of the arrival of the Pioneers
at "Monopohoko"—(Salt Lake.)
	I often look down the pasture, and think
how good it would seem to see a white face
approaching; that is a sight seldom seen
here. But I am quite busy trying to learn
the language, and have no time to get lone-
some. I shall not have so good a chance
to learn when Simpson goes away, he is so
patient in teaching me. He will soon start
for another island, and will be gone until
conference time.
	The natives are thick around me, so that
I can scarcely write. They are gathering
to make arrangements for a feast; our house
is their place of gathering for such affairs,
and it is generally very lively with their
noise.
	We have eight rooms, three verandas, a
nice large cook house, and no mud. It may
rain for hours and as soon as the sun comes
out, you may walk out without soiling your
feet. Grass grows even on the rocks. You
may spade your garden, and in a few days
grass springs up and looks green. I never
saw so clean a place. The water is as soft
as rain, very warm, but I do not notice it
now. I am getting used to everything ex-
cept doing without vegetables. Sorry we
did not bring seeds with us. The brethren
have not tried to raise a garden. Simpson
has been trying to get a few seeds here and
there, and has a garden started. I have not
seen a melon, or anything but sweet pota-
toes in the vegetable line since we came.

	It is seventeen years to day since I took
the marriage vow, and promised to be a
true and faithful wife. And as the mission-
aries are to start again tomorrow, we have
had a dinner, the first good meal I have
had the honor of cooking. There were of
us, brothers Lambert and wife, Woolley and
wife, Pack, Stringam, and Molen, myself
and little Millie. For dinner, I made a good
loaf of bread, a nice cake sweetened with
very brown sugar, four apple pies, (from ap-
ples that my dear mother dried,) stewed


two chickens which I bought of a native
woman, and made a nice gravy. Then we
had salt beef, sweet potatoes with butter
and pepper, and "poi."
	I imagine you laughing at my dinner,
but you need not. I saved things for over
two weeks, preparing for to-day. Brother
Wooley made me a present of some nice
pine apples, cocoanuts and a paper of figs.


[COLUMN 1]

	For the Exponent.
MATTER AND SPIRIT.

	In a late number of the EXPONENT, I no-
ticed a finely written article upon the beau-
ties of Nature. I am greatly in sympathy
with the writer of that effusion. From a
child I have been much given to contrast-
ing the works of man, with the works of
His Maker. By bringing even the tiniest
specimens of heaven's designing hand un-
der the microscope, and noting how precisely
according to the exact rule of its formation,
the smallest flower, for instance was organ-
ized. How certain its progress too, spring-
ing into life, blooming into its delicate
beauty for awhile, then fading, dying and
vanishing from sight. Yet in its disinte-
gration there falls from its minute but nu-
merous chalices an almost infinite number
of atomic germs of life—of flower life eter-
nal. Going out and upward from these
small thoughts, my eyes were opened upon
the fact, that in all the works of Deity, the
law of composition and of decomposition
is always the same under the same circum-
stances, that though He
	"Forms the shining worlds,"—or
	"Makes the cricket sing,"
still the fact of law of order of all atoms
and all masses, is an inevitable conclusion.
Then I said to myself, this being so, that an
inviolable law that cannot be changed, rules
all matter, that everywhere, like must
cleave unto like; that the chemical affinity
of substances are resting on the condition
and properties of each and every ultimate
atom of matter that enters into the struct-
ure of the vast Universe of the great Crea-
tor. That inert atoms must construct them-
selves by their own self-possessed forces and
characters into such masses as they were
made to be associated with, and cannot
combine with those elements which are not
of their kind, or endowed with such cor-
responding forces as shall bind them togeth-
er. If all these be so exactly held by the
laws of their creation, what then shall we
say of the immortal, or quickening element
of life in vegetable, animal, or man. Leav-
ing the two first we are most concerned in
the high powers and endowments given to
that being which, we are told, was formed
in the likeness of God—male and female,
man and woman—and who was first quick-
ened into life by the breath of the Al-
mighty. Even so, and more also shall not
God know the beings He has so created.
Has He not made, and will he not contro
those children of His by a law as just, as de-
terminate as the law by which the worlds
were poised in such position as should cer-
tainly induce in them movement, which
those orbs must make, in order to follow
the orbit marked out for them when He
drew the circle in the heavens, and calcu-
lated the just proportion of every force and
power which should keep them in the track
which He had assigned to them.
	Not to follow this subject further at this
time, for I never have much leisure, my
conclusion has been this. In view of all
the visible acts of God, I must conclude—
first, that every law of God is just, His acts

[COLUMN 2]

are laid in great understanding, that His
decrees are inevitable, that which He has
ordained must surely come to pass, that
though the heavens and earth fail, not one
jot or tittle of His word shall fail, that He
is Omnipotent as well as Al-wise, and hav-
ing said "the just shall live by faith, and
that not of themselves—it is the gift
of God." That no one can enter into
His kingdom who is not both just and faith-
ful.
	M. I. CORAY.
Coray's Ranch, York Station, Nov. 14, 76.


THAT OTHER WILLIE.

BY BELLE FRENCH.

	"Willie, why don't you go and play with
the boys and not be forever stuck at my
feet?"
	Such was Mrs. Gray's impatient question,
one day, when her little son came and seat-
ed himself in the parlor when his mother
was conversing with a visitor.
	"I would rather be with you than with
the boys," he answered timidly.
	"Oh, I never saw such a baby!"
	"Is it wrong to wish to be near you, moth-
er?" said the child, and his nether lip trem-
bled as he spoke.
	"Wrong? of course not. But you are old
enough to have some manliness about you.
See, yonder are Will and John Gowdy on
the ice. Run and keep them company. I
want to talk to Mrs. Brown."
	"Isn't he a queer child," she asked.
	The other raised her sad eyes and fixed
them with such a painful expression on the
mother's face, that for a moment Mrs. Gray
almost felt offended. She was a sorrowful
looking woman this Mrs. Brown.
	"I had a son once, but he's gone," she
said at last, and there were tears in her
eyes.
	Mrs. Gray gazed at her wonderingly.
She had not known this before.
	"It is a bitter thing to tear open partially
healed wounds," Mrs. Brown continued,
"but I will tell you my story:
	"Several years ago I was about to give a
party; a grand affair it was to be, and my
head was almost turned in making prepara-
tions. My Willie, (his name was Willie
too,) was about 16 years old. He had never
been to school, I had educated him myself.
At home, he was all a mother's heart could
desire; but he was shy, and when I forced
him into company he appeared so awkward,
that I often felt ashamed of him. This was
one reason of my deciding to give a party.
If he was obliged to act the part of host he
would overcome his bashfulness, I thought.
But Willie never approved of it.
	"I shall be so glad when the party is
over," he said one day; "for since you have
got it into your head, I have lost my moth-
er."
	"Poor little baby!" I responded, slightly
provoked at his lack of interest. "I won-
der how many more years I shall have you
tied to my apron string?"
	I spoke sneeringly, and a proud flush in-
stantly overspread his face.
	"I will be tied there no longer," he re-
turned, "I will seek other company in the
future."
	I was frightened at the result of my
words. Still I made no response. My son
putting on his coat and hat, went out. It
was the first time in his life he had gone
out without informing me where he was
going.
	In good time the party came off. It was
a gay affair, and none were gayer than Wil-


[COLUMN 1]

lie. He was a sort of extremist, and took
no medium stand. After that his books and
work were neglected, and his days, as well
as evenings, were spent abroad. Fast young
men became his constant companions. I
was left alone to mourn over the change I
had wrought. At first he made it a rule to
be in at night by ten o'clock, but after a
time he began to stay out later; and day-
break sometimes found him from home.
I tried to expostulate, tried to win him
back to his old habits, but my efforts were
unavailing. He had got a taste of a new
life and it held him by a charm. Well do
I remember the first night he came home
in a state of intoxication. It was his seven-
teenth birthday, just a year from the time
I gave the party. I had seen him under
the influence of wine once or twice before,
but this night he drank so deeply that some
of his companions had to help him home.
	The hours of that night were dreadful
hours of self reproach and agony. I was so
glad when morning came to dispel the
gloom—so glad when reason returned to my
erring child. He was very much ashamed.
He said again and again he would do bet-
ter; but his resolves were worthless. Two
nights later, he was again brought home in-
toxicated. After that it was a common oc-
curence. He fell lower and lower, squand-
ered all my ready money and, when I re-
fused to mortgage my property, that he
might have more, he left me with an oath.
	That night a large firm was robbed and
it was discovered that Willie was one of
the perpetrators of the deed. The next
morning the town was alive with excite-
ment, and I almost crazed with anxiety,
for my boy had fled. The news passed from
mouth to mouth; my house was searched,
and my son called a villain, but I had no
power to prevent either. No one gave me
a word of sympathy.
	"You have only yourself to blame," said
a blunt old woman, who called during the
day. "The boy was happy at home but you
drove him into bad company."
	That night at the hour of twelve, as I sat
alone, a window was opened softly and Wil-
lie stepped into the room. With a glad cry
I sprang toward him, but he pushed me
rudely away.
	"Can you hide me anywhere," he said,
"The bloodhounds are after me. Had you
given me the money yesterday, this would
not have been."
	"Oh, Willie!" I cried.
	"Yes, mother," he said sternly, "you
have made me a criminal. I want to tell
you I have secretly married Kate Hastings.
God knows what will become of her."
	Kate was a pretty little creature, only 16
years old, innocent as the violets which
grew around her home—My bleeding heart
gave a quick painful throb as he continued:
	"The world will not believe we are mar-
ried. She will be scorned by all. Hark!
they are coming. Mother, I am too young,
too wicked to die, but I must die. Fare-
well!"
	I saw his purpose now, for his hand
clutched a revolver and springing to my
feet I threw my arms about him to shield
him from himself. But he shook me off.
The next moment the loud report of his
pistol echoed through the house. One glance
showed me his lifeless form stretched on
the floor. Then existence was a blank to
me.
	"When I awoke to consciousness the
morning sun was shining and the house
was filled with people. But even justice
was satisfied, and I was left alone with the
dead. All day, tearless and motionless, I
sat beside that mangled corpse. Some peo-

[COLUMN 2]

ple kinder than the rest, came in to make
preparations for the funeral; and passed si-
lently out, but I did not heed them.
	Kate Hastings came just after dark. She
was dressed in deep mourning, and her face
was so ghastly that it startled me.
	"You, too, have come to reproach me," I
said.
	"No, mother. You suffer enough with-
out my reproaches. I have come to watch
with the dead."
	"I wish to watch alone," I said.
	"It is I who will watch alone," she re-
tuened. "It is my right, I am his wife."
	How calm she was! There was not even
a tremor of the voice to tell how she suffer-
ed.
	"Yes, it is your right, my poor child!" I
said. It gives me another pang to give
him up even to you my daughter; still I do
it.
	She looked up quickly.
	"He has told you?"
	"Yes."
	"Yet you speak kindly to me and do not
condemn us."
	A sad beautiful smile for a moment light-
ed up her features. She raised one of my
hands and kissed it reverently.
	"Thank you," she said. "Some time
you will be glad for having shown this
kindness to one so much in need of it.
Now, mother, leave me."
	I left the apartment but did not retire.
All night I sat on the floor outside the door,
hoping that Katie would bid me enter; but
no such summons came. Daylight returned,
and the busy world again moved, still I
head no movement in the chamber of
death. At last my anxiety became so great
that I opened the door and looked in. The
girl knelt by the side of the corpse, appar-
ently asleep. Softly I stole forward and
raised the drooping head. But no sad eyes
met my gaze, nothing but the white face
and staring orbs of a corpse. Katie had
died by her own hand, as a bottle which
she clutched proved.
	The next day they buried the pair; my
erring son and his child wife, in one grave;
and as the clods fell on the coffin, the
brightness of my life went out forever.
	Mrs. Brown could say no more, for sobs
choked her utterance. Her listener, too,
was deeply affected, as her pale face and
tearful eye showed.
	Leaving the bereaved mother for a mo-
ment, Mrs Gray stole softly to the door and
called—
	"Willie!"
	The child heard her and came quickly to
her side.
	"What is it, mamma?"
	"It is so lonesome without you, darling,"
she said, drawing him to her.
	A smile lit up his face.
	"Then, do you love me, mamma?"
	"Love you? Oh, Willie!"
	Her arms were about him now and she
was sobbing on his shoulder.
	"Did somebody tell you about those bad
boys?" he asked wonderingly. "They have
got a flask of whiskey, mamma."
	"Thank God! You are saved, my dar-
ling, she cried, hysterically.
	She drew him closer to her, she clung to
him, she showered kisses on his wondering
face. But never, until he was a man, with
a son of his own, did she tell him the story
of that other Willie, whose childhood and
his had been so much alike, and how, by
the knowledge of that other Willie's un-
fortunate career, he had been saved by her
perhaps from a like fate.—Peterson's Maga-
zine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S RECORD.

	Miss Susan Fletcher Smith, an American
lady, has just made a will, assigning her
body, after death, to the Royal College of
Surgeons, on the ground that it is the duty
of every member of the human family to
devote the body after death, to scientific
examination, until the principles of physi-
ological science are thoroughly established.
It seems to us this woman possesses the ele-
ments of true benevolence and heroism.
	Mrs. M. E. Marshall, of Brooklyn, N.
Y., has opened an institution in that city,
for the benefit of working women, which is
designed to be self-supporting, and inde-
pendent of any donomination or sect. She
has opened an evening school for girls who
cannot attend the day school, where trades
will be taught, in addition to English
branches and music. A fee of fifty cents
per week is charged. The amount received
above expenses will be devoted to provid-
ing a home for homeless children, and girls
who are out of employment. A select
boarding agency has also been connected
with the institution for the benefit of the
pupils and inmates." Such an enterprise
as the above mentioned, thoroughly syste-
matic and business-like, yet in its nature
truly consistent with womanly sympathy
and generosity, is a positive demonstration
of the ability and method which women
are capable of exercising.
	"MRS. Martha Bremington, of Trenton,
Mass., recently deceased, accumulated an
independent property, in a way truly re-
markable. Although she was in business
but a few years, and at that almost a girl,
and without assistance, she left an estate
which will reach nearly 40,000. Her in-
vestments were shrewdly made and were
often exceedingly remunerative, As a
shrewd buyer of goods she had no superior
in the market. Her energy and applica-
tion to business was tireless. The deceased
made a will before her death, and is said to
have left all, or nearly all her estate to her
present husband, Mr. William S. Breming-
ton."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To make Cream Cake.—Take one pint of boil-
ing water and add to it one tablespoonful of lard;
while this is at boiling heat stir into it a little salt
and sufficient flour to form a stiff dough, and then
when cool beat into the dough five eggs. Butter
a dripping-pan and drop in the dough in separate
quantities about the size of a walnut, it will puff
up and rise and be hollow inside; bake in a very
quick oven. Prepare the cream thus: take one
quart of milk and let it boil, while boiling take
sufficient cold milk to stir in two table spoonfuls
of flour and three eggs, add this to the milk while
boiling, as you would make gravy, put in half or
two thirds of a teacupful of sugar and season with
lemon, then when the cakes are hot open them
and fill them with the cream.
	Egg Blanc Mange.—Two thirds of a box of
gelatine, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, six
eggs, salt and flavoring to taste. Put the gela-
tine into the milk set it on the back of the stove
until it is dissolved, and then add the sugar, beat
the yolks of the eggs until they are very light, add
a gill of cold milk when the milk on the stove is
scalding hot; put the eggs in; stir constantly until
it is done which will be in a few minutes. If al-
lowed to remain too long on the fire it will curdle.
Take from the fire and continue to stir it gently
until it is quite cold, then put the mixture into a
mold and set it on ice, if the weather is warm.
This is to be eaten with cream.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	About Sleep.—How much sleep is necessary
to health and activity of body and mind it is hard to
determine except by individual experience; medi-
cal men and women and scientists have come to
this conclusion, after a variety of experiences and
experiments. The difference in individuals is
greater than inexperienced persens would imag-
ine. It is very generally conceded that children
should be indulged to the extent of their inclina-
tions.
	In the "Journal of Commerce" we find the fol-
lowing interesting items on this subject. Dr. Cooch
mentions a man who sleeps only fifteen minutes a
day and enjoys good health. Blaine mentions a
a man who during an active campaign, never, for
more than one year, slept more than one hour in
twenty-four; and the same is related of Charles
XII of Sweden, during his wonderful career.
Jeremy Taylor, during a part of his life, slept
only three or four hours out of the twenty-four;
and Napoleon during his military career slept only
four or five hours out of the twenty four; but he
was able to fall asleep any time in the midst of
his work when he felt drowsy. John Winter,
the great surgeon, slept four hours at night, and
one after dinner. Sir John Sinclair gives the his-
tory of a man who had reached the age of ninety-
one, and all his life had slept but four hours in
the twenty four. Sir Walter Scott said he was
not entirely himself unless he passed seven hours
in total unconsciousness. Southey required ten
hours, going to bed at ten and rising at eight,
Sir William Jones laid down the rule of life for
students in the couplet—
	Seven hours to books, to soothing slumber seven—
	Ten to the world's a[-]lot, and all to heaven.


COLERIDGE was once out on a particular
ride. The horse and the get up of the rider
were alike open to vulgar criticism. A low
wag appreciating the general effect, asked
the poet if he had met a tailor just like
himself. "Yes," was the reply; "and he
said he had lost his goose." After this
lowly triumph, his road brought him with-
in hail of a more distinguished party of
horsemen, one of whom, a sporting M. P.,
known to have been bribed by the Minis-
try, stopped him to enquire the price of
horse and rider. "The horse," was the
answer, "is a hundred guineas; as for the
rider, as he is not in Parliament yet, I have
not fixed his price."


IMPROMPTU EFFORTS.—Although pains-
taking writers produce the best work, as a
rule; it cannot be denied that some of the
most popular things in literature, especially
hymns and short poems, with now and
then a story, have been written almost
without forethought, and printed with but
little alteration. As, for instance, the mis-
sionary hymn, "From Greenland's Icy
Mountains," which Heber wrote at a few
moment's notice. And "Sheridan's ride"
has a history as felicitous. It is said of it
that its author, Reed, had Murdock the ac-
tor, for a guest, and while at breakfast, saw
in the morning journal an account of Sheri-
dan's exploit. He withdrew to his own
room, and in about an hour came out with
that poem, which Murdock read at the ben-
efit the same evening, and which in the
course of a few weeks appeared in half the
newspapers in the land.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]
			WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.
	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNFLS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

