VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1877.		No. 21.


TO BEREAVED MOTHERS.

In Rama there was heard a voice of grief;
	Rachel bemoaned her sad and lonely lot;
Would not be comforted nor find relief,
	Her children slain, she wept that they were not.

A wailing voice is heard in Deseret,
	The babes are stricken and the mothers mourn;
Their hearts are pained, their cheeks and eyes are wet,
	For those who're not, which they have fondly borne.

Oh sisters! comfort ye! We've but to wait,
	Though for a season life seems reft of charms:
We know fair cherub forms at the bright gate,
	Will welcome us with loving, clinging arms.

We'll clasp them to our hearts to part no more,
	We'll find the same sweet lips and pure soft breath,
The same dear eyes God will in love restore,
	And in that Heavenly home there is no death.

We'll hear again their infant voices speak,
	In the glad silv’ry tones we loved so much,
And feel again on forehead, lip and cheek,
	Their kisses and their fingers' velvet touch.

How long oh Lord! how long! But hush poor heart!
	Thou would'st not question Him whose power sublime
Hath fashioned, formed and made thee what thou art!
	Thou must abide His will and wait His time.

And while you wait the noble lesson learn
	Of patience duly tried and perfect trust;
Though oft with hunger sore you wildly yearn,
	Remember still that God is wise and just.

Oh Gospel Light! most holy and serene!
	How shall they stand who know not thy fair truths!
How thy blest presence cheers death's solemn scene,
	How thy glad sounds the wounded spirit sooths!

How should we these strange trying tests endure,
	Had we no higher claim than words of men?
Did we not feel Our Father's promise sure,
	That we shall have our darlings back again.

Thank God we may confess His mighty hand
	In all the trials He directs us through,
Since He hath given us grace to understand
	His holy covenants, forever new!

Sublimest Faith! Most sacred gift of God!
	Shall they who know thee fail, or deem thee false?
Shall frail, weak woman sink beneath the rod,
	Which chastening, purifies, upholds, exalts?

What though we weep! God gave us tears to shed,
	When hearts o'er burdened burst from calm control;
The blessed Savior's heart was torn and bled,
	He wept and groaned in anguish of His soul.

In His dear name, for strength and grace we'll call,
	Nor deem the crosses we must bear too great:
The prize He offers is sufficient all—
	Oh comfort ye! my sisters—we can wait!

Let worldlings laugh our patient hopes to scorn,
	We'll not condemn; the Father judges best;
We own His power and while we truly mourn,
	Rejoice as truly in His promised rest.

Let me these humble, sacred tributes weave,
	O'er little ones so loved, so early gone!
It comforts mine, and other hearts that grieve,
	May gather courage as they struggle on.

	LULA.
Lula D. Richard


[Column 1]

WE WILL REPRESENT OURSELVES.

	In a letter published in the "Woman's
Journal," of Boston, the writer has made a
grievous mistake in representing the Mor-
mon ladies. She says "none but a few of
the ignorant sustain the doctrine of Plural
Marriage; the more intelligent class, and
especially the young ladies, would be glad
to see it abolished."
	As I have resided in S. L. City over twen-
ty years, and have been extensively ac-
quainted with all classes, I believe it is my
duty to correct such a mistake, when I see
it published to the world. I have conversed

[Column 2]

with a number of strangers, visiting the
city, who have expressed their surprise to
find so much intelligence among the women
who sustain this principle practically; the
writer of the letter to which I allude is in-
cluded among that number, and still retains
her husband's name, though so strongly
and widely proclaiming against the princi-
ple. These matrimonial alliances sanctioned
by the FIRST wife, prove that all parties
are involved in solving this wonderful
problem; which it would not take a Phila-
delphia lawyer more than six weeks to do,
provided theological evidence would be re-
ceived as testimony. And to those who
are infidel to the evidence of inspired writ-
ers we would say, we have the physiologi-
cal proofs to sustain our theory, and the
laws of nature, which should govern the
regeneration of man. And there are thou-
sands of noble, intelligent women in Utah,
who have received for themselves a knowl-
edge of the truth of the principles revealed
by Joseph Smith the martyred Prophet,
and they fear not to meet the opposition of
a frowning world, realizing that God is the
Author of revealed religion, and it is His
right to organize the plan by which the in-
habitants of the earth can be redeemed;
and He has manifested His power by in-
spiring men and women who have and will
carry out His plans at the sacrifice of all
EARTHLY honors.
	Our little EXPONENT, though in its in-
fancy, we are proud to say is the represent-
ative of truth, and is the Exponent of the
principles advocated by the Mormon wo-
men: and we recommend its moral teach-
ings and divine instructions to all who
read its pages, as truthful and elevating.	This reminds us of the thousands and
millions of dollars appropriated for the pub-
lication of literature that is worse than
nonsense, filling the minds of the rising
generation with fables and errors, that will
require years to eradicate. But this is in
keeping with the age in which we live.
The world of mankind has almost become a
swindle, and a counterfeit, politically and
religiously. As with the politician, so with
the priest—they all work for money, and
not for the interest of the people; confi-
dence is lost, and the light of truth, that
once beamed upon the patriots of former
days, is being withdrawn in consequence of
the wickedness and fraud that have been
practised upon a people who would delight
to honor their constitutional rights.
	Seeing we have digressed a little from
our subject, we will return by saying we
think it is much better to rspresent our-
selves; than to be MISREPRESENTED by oth-
ers, and we intend to let those ladies who
have been lecturing, and publishing books,
to misrepresent us to the world know, that
with the help of God in whom we trust, we
intend to represent ourselves, and leave
those in the hands of God who seek to
fight against Him. We know the wonder-
ful problem being solved by the Mormon
people is the greatest mystery of the pres-
ent age, but it only requires time to solve
itself. If it be of God who can fight against
it; it is He who has revealed it, and sus-
tained it; it was beyond the power of man
to do what has been already done, then why
fight against it? If it is not of God it will

[Column 3]

fall to the ground of itself—let it alone.
The Saviour said a good tree is known by
its fruits. My testimony is that for truth,
integrity and virtue the Mormon people
are not excelled by any people on the earth,
and we call upon honorable men and women
living among us, who are not of our faith,
to be our witnesses. If this is not true,
why are they here? If we are ignorant,
and practice degradation and crime, why
do our enemies come and make their homes
among us? There is a large amount of
room in the world, and we only occupy the
Great American Desert. I never knew a
people that honored their constitutional
rights more than the Mormons. If a Meth-
odist comes among us and shouts, no one
says why do you worship in that way. If
the Quaker comes and shakes, no true saint
asks, why do you shake? The Catholics
come and rear their lofty convent walls re-
quiring their converts to pay penance; the
Mormon goes to his own church, minds his
own business, does not even ask, why do
you pay penance to the Priest? For he has
already learned as much as the little boy
who asked his father who he paid penance
to? the father replied, "To the priest, my
son;" "But who does the priest go to?"
"To God," was the reply; "Well," said the
boy, "I will go to God, and keep my shill-
ing to buy me a Bible."
	W. E.
S. L. City, March 20, 1877.


R. S. REPORTS.

	CLARKESTON, CACHE Co.,
		Eeb. 17th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The First of this month the Relief Socie-
ty of Clarkeston held their Annual Meet-
ing, and a report of the past year's doings
was read, which showed that the poor had
been cared for: We have paid nine dollars
and seventy-five cents to the Sunday School,
twenty-one dollars to the Salt Lake Temple,
twenty-five dollars for a share in the Wool-
en Factory being built in Logan; we have
about forty dollars in shares in the Co-op
Store, we have also a small sheep herd, and
we have commenced to save a little wheat,
we have about thirty bushels in the bin, and
expect to get some more. Our settlement
is small; but the sisters feel willing to assist
in building up the sisters feel willing to assist
in building up the kingdom of God. Our
worthy Bishop, Bro. John Jardine, met
with us and gave us some valuable instruc-
tions. He certainly is the right man in the
right place. A number of other brethren
were there. The people here are busy get-
ting the materials together to build a new
meeting house; we expect to have it fin-
ished by next fall.
	Union and a good spirit prevail. The
health of the people is good, and we feel
that the blessings of God are with us. The
EXPONENTS come very regularly, and the
sisters are anxious to read them at all times.
Hoping that we may be found faithful to
the end, we remain your sisters in the Gos-
pel,
	MARY GRIFFIN, President.
		JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


[Column 1]
			SMITHFIELD CACHE Co.,
						March 16, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the Relief Society of Smithfield wish
to let you know what we are doing to help
build up Zion. We are building a neat lit-
tle adobie house to hold our metings in.
We got the walls up and the roof on last
fall, and are going to have it finished as
soon as possible now. The young men and
boys hauled the materials, and the society
had two dances and picnics for them. The
boys had a fine time and were so well
pleased that they said they would help the
society again. The brethren donated some
of the work, and we have paid the rest
with quilts made by the Relief and Re-
trenchment Societies. The Retrenchment
Association has done considerable. Our So-
ciety are doing what they can in the Grain
Movement; we have gathered up some-
thing over one hundred bushels of wheat.
Next year we intend to commence sooner,
and gather in the grain in good season, and
think we can do better than we did this
winter. We will exert ourselves early in
harvest time.
		Your sister etc.
					E. M. MERRILL.

	RIVERDALE, WEBER Co. March 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our worthy President Sister Martha A.
Bingham desired me to write to you. I
trust I may be guided in what I may say
by the spirit of the Lord. Our society is in
a more prosperous condition than it has
been; the sisters seem to be more interested
in the things of the kingdom. Our Society
is small in comparison to many others, our
numbers are about forty in all, the sisters as
a general thing feel to be one with other
Relief Societies in saving and storing grain.
We are not as well off financially as some of
our sisters, but we have a bin prepared and
some few bushels of wheat in it which we
intend adding unto as long as the Lord pros-
pers us with means and plentiful harvests.
	Your excellent paper is always welcome
with us, it is a source of pleasure and com-
fort; we have it read in our meetings occas-
ionally as the spirit directs. May the Lord
bless every honest mother and sister in Is-
rael who are striving to do His will and-
keep His commandments, is the prayer of
your sisters in the Gospel.
			M. A. Bingham, Pres't.
				H. A. CHILD, Sec'y.

				LEHI, March 1st, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place is not
behind the sisters of other settlements in
trying to carry out the counsel of President
Young in storing grain, though we are late
in reporting. A committee was chosen to
visit the sisters and obtain means in that
way or any other that they in their wis-
dom thought best. We are pleased to re-
port to you, that by donations, proceeds
from a party, and other means, we have on
hand more than one hundred bushels of
wheat and with the prospect of more. Not
having a bin of our own, Bishop Evans
kindly proffered us one at the Co-op store
to put it in; and to insure us from all losses
he gave us a written order for the amount,
subject to our call at any time. We expect,
if possible, to build a granary this coming
summer.
	We rejoice to know that the Lord has
counted us worthy to be co-workers in pre-

[Column 2]
paring for that time which has been predict-
ed by ancient and modern prophets, when
famine shall come upon the earth, and hun-
dreds of the inhabitants shall come to Zion
to buy bread of the (now, but not then) de-
spised Latter-day Saints.
	We also wish to aid in helping to publish
the Woman's Book. The EXPONENT is an
ever welcome and most desirable visitor.
With much esteem and kind wishes for
your prosperity and success in your laudable
endeavors to do good, I am
		Yours respectfully,
			REBECCA STANDRING,
						Secretary.

				PAYSON, March 5th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of Payson feel that they have
had a rich treat of late. Sunday, Feb. 4,
Bishop W. G. Young gave us two soul-stir-
ring discourses; he visited the Relief Socie-
ty and the Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association here, imparted wise counsel to
the mothers and daughters. He talked of
the Woman's Book about to be published,
representing its interests, and canvassed
for the "Life of Brigham Young, or Utah
and her Founders." Feb. 11, Bishop Lo-
renzo Young gave us a splendid discourse
in the afternoon, President Joseph Young,
Sen., visited the Sunday School; we could
have sat for hours and listened to his wise
counsel and fatherly advice to old and
young. Monday evening, Feb. 12, Elders
Hardy and Young addressed the Young
Men's Improvement Association, after
which Mrs. Zina Young said she could bear
testimony to all that had been said; the
outside influence felt its power. She spoke
on sericulture, exhibited a specimen of
fringe that had been made for the Temple
at St. George. The feeling with us is that
we have had a feast of fat things, and say
God bless the brethren for their wise coun-
sel, and Sister Zina for comforting and
cheering us with her motherly and inspir-
ing conversation.
	We hail each number of the EXPONENT
with delight, knowing that much valuable
instruction is contained therein; we regret
that it has not a wider circulation in this
place. The sisters all join with me in love.
						M. A. HARDY.

	MORRELL, SUMMIT Co., March 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reply to your kind request to hear
from our Relief Society we herewith send
you a statement of our financial condition,
March 15, 1877.
	Am't received and made,......... $60 85
"       Disbursed..................................   16 70
"       On hand.....................................   44 15
	Our society was organized Sept. 1874,
with the following officers, Jane E. Lemon,
President; Christine Larsen and Julia
Woolstenhulme, Counselors; Jane Keeler,
Secretary; Jane E. Lemon, Treasurer; and
twenty members. We meet twice a month
and enjoy each other's society and counsel,
and feel benefitted thereby. We read the
EXPONENT with great interest and are
pleased to learn through its columns that
the mothers in Zion are awake to a sense of
their duties and are storing up the precious
grain, for we know it will be our salvation
in years to come. We ahve considered the
Grain Movement in our meetings, and
would like to give our mite to help forward
in this great work, but the frost destroyed
our grain. This being a newly settled place

[Column 3]
we have not the means at present, to go
elsewhere to purchase grain, but hope for
better times soon.
	The sisters of our society conceived the
idea of having a party and managing the
affair themselves. We decorated our school
house nicely with pictures and flowers, a
few of our sisters understand making arti-
ficial flowers and made an abundance of
them, which gave to the room an elegant
appearance. At two o'clock in the afternoon
President Mrs. J. E. Lemon opened the
dance by prayer. Mrs. Jane Keeler was
Manager, and at ten o'clock Counselor C.
Larsen dismissed. We maintain the idea
that woman's influence will not be lessened
but increased by her taking a more active
part in recreations and social enjoyments.
	In Sept. last we received a flying visit
from sisters' E. S. Barney and E. Howard.
They gave us good advice and we desire to
carry out their teachings to the best of our
ability.
		Respectfully yours,
			JANE E. LEMON, Pres't.
				JANE KEELER, Sec'y.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., March 10, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have been called upon to mourn the
loss of one of the most faithful members of
our Society, Sister Caroline Jorgensen who
was accidentally kicked by a cow which
caused her death in forty-eight hours af-
terward; this occurred on the 2nd of Feb.
She assembled with us at our Society meet-
ing three days previous to the accident, and
was also at Fast meeting the day before.
Her age was sixty-eight years; she was an
accoucher and practiced here many years
and was also always ready and willing to
help and comfort the sisters in distress.
She was greatly beloved by all her brethren
and sisters, and was respected by those who
are not of our people. Her loss to us will
be very great. She was always ready with
her donations in helping to build up the
kingdom of God. Her sudden death was
quite a shock to her husband and children
and to us all. All the sisters of the ward
convened at her house to pay their tribute
of respect to her beloved remains, and all the
teams in the settlement were there to con-
vey us to her last resting place. Bishop
Bradley and other brethren spoke comfort-
ing words to the bereaved family, and to
the great congregation that had assembled;
we all felt to say dear sister rest until the
morning of the first resurrection, then you
will come forth and receive a crown of
righteousness that fadeth not away, reserv-
ed for you from the foundation of the
world—and to all those that love His ap-
pearing.
	In respect to the Grain Movement we
have two hundred bushels well stored. We
have a committee of four to look after the
grain; they are very energetic in gathering
in the "staff of life;" the brethren are very
kind in helping the sisters donate the
wheat. We are gathering all the means
we can for the Temple. Our young ladies
are making quilts and comforters, they also
wish to do something to help build up the
kingdom of God.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel.
							J. BAILEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Moody and Sankey are still holding forth
in Boston, Mass., and drawing, constantly,
large audiences. The new tabernacle erect-
ed for them there seats 7,000 people; and is
always well filled.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE MEMBERS OF THE
Y. M. M. I. A.

Brothers in faith, in God and the right,
Lead on, we are with you in fervor and might;
Meet ever with courage the foes of our cause,
The ruthless defilers of God and His laws.

Fear not to tell of His goodness and truth,
Fear not even now in the days of thy youth;
Think not His cross and His burthen is hard,
As thy day so thy strength, and great the reward.

Of those who enlist in the conflict begun,
Who stand by our flag 'till the battle is done,
Whose heart never falters whose arm will not yield
'Til the last foe is conquered or fled from the field.

We want not the bullet, the sword nor the knife
Not death is our object but life, ever life;
Our weapon is Truth, undaunted and brave,
Its foes to contend with, its champions to save.

Wide is the field and great is the host,
And well does the enemy guard every post;
Ignorance, falsehood, malice and pride,
With their numerous allies on every side.

But they'll vanish away and flee from the light
Of Truth, as the bright sun will banish the night,
And Faith, Hope, and Charity, sisters divine,
The Crown for the Victor in glory will twine.
	HOPE.
Sarah C. R[---]


ITEMS ON DRESS.

	I wish to address a few friendly words to
you my dear friends and sisters, and have
chosen this subject, and hope I shall give
no offence but merely express a few ideas
that were prominently brought to my mind
lately. I had a few words written and in-
tended to send them to you, but on reading
them to President Young, he opened to my
mind such a halo of light and revelation on
this subject that I could not be satisfied with
what I had written. I only wish you my
dear readers, could have been with me and
heard and seen the plainness and beauty of
the principles opened to my view. It is
undoubtedly the case that this waste of
dress is not countenanced by those whom the
Lord has placed to lead Israel We are all
human enough to enquire the reason of this.
President Young answered this question in
language which I am unable to use. In this
life we are really in possession of but one
thing. Money, houses, lands, all, all are
left behind when we go hence; and even
while here, with all our efforts and exer-
tions to keep them, with a breath they are
gone. How true the old saying, "riches
take wings." So that all that remains to us
is our TIME. This no one can rob us of;
but I am inclined to say we very often al-
low ourselves to be cheated into casting it
aside as a worthless toy. Consequently
when we spend our valuable time in mak-
ing up clothing which is elaborately trim-
med, we both waste our time and those
means which should be devoted to sending
for the poor, and in other charitable pur-
poses. Right here some one says, "Oh yes!
but Miss or Mrs. So and So have renewed
their covenants and received the ordinan-
ces of the Lord's house and other blessings,
and they dress extravagantly and wear all
the ruffles they choose. What if they do?
Because Judas betrayed Christ does it fol-
low that all the Apostles were to turn trait-
ors and forsake their God? Apply the si-
mile here. Shall we encourage a love of
dress because others do so? Most certain-
ly not. It is useless to tell a lady that gen-
tlemen prefer to see ladies dressed plainly
and neatly. They don't care a fig, they
will answer you; they dress to please them-
selves." Which translated means that
they dress to be like each other and to fol-
low the fashions of a wicked, foolish world.
But I honestly believe that if you can con-


vince a Mormon, woman's reason, that it is
wroug to put trimmings on her clothes or
dress elaborately, she will cease to do so. It
is only the result of thoughtlessness; they
do not stop to consider the matter, but go
blindly on, following in the lead of those
perhaps, who should know better, and set
a better example.
	Do you think sisters you would like to
associate with angels with these trappings
on? I suppose that you have all been prom-
ised that you should one day meet with
them, and sooner or later we must put a
stop to this folly. So let us do so now, and
be prepared to advance one step further in
the grand march to meet our Savior; if we
do, we will be thus binding Satan out of
our hearts, for this folly of dress surely
originates from him. Let us do this, and
not pass over this matter so lightly, for if
we do, we will some day be called to ac-
count for it.
	Yours with love,
		S. Y. D.


GOOD MANNERS.

	I have long been impressed with the im-
portance of the subject named above, both
in public and private life; Scripture enjoins
us to be courteous, and to be given to hos-
pitality, and the Savior himself, was a pat-
tern of gentleness, tenderness and consider-
ation towards those He associated with.
All these are principles upon which good
manners should be based; there is no doubt
the heart and intentions are sometimes
very good, when the manners are repulsive
and uncouth, and as the MASSE do not look
beyond the surface, such persons cannot feel
an injury is done to them, if they are judged
unjustly. We should allow the warm feel-
ings of the heart to expand beyond our-
selves, if we desire to be beloved and re-
spected. Good manners are a letter of in-
troduction at first sight, and the coldest
heart must be thawed by a kind and ur-
bane salutation or welcome. Lamartine, a
good and beautiful French writer says "The
Gospel is democratic, and Christianity re-
publican;" and the royal law of the same is
"Do as you would be done by;" all of which
implies the law of kindness, of course in-
cluding good manners. True politeness
springs from the heart, and requires often
a sacrifice of our own comforts, and conve-
niences. Where the spirit is loving, hum-
ble and teachable, there we find the mate-
rial from which good manners are formed;
true it is that "trifles make the sum of hu-
man things," yet the happiness of our
every day life, is made up of such minute
particles that they must be felt rather than
made palpable by language.
	I might give the routine of Educational
politene s, and would uphold such as far as
it is good; but the Home circle should be
the centre of our good manners; to our par-
ents, to our brothers and sisters, and to our
husbands let our good manners be ever ap-
parent. My sisters the grand secret is to
cultivate the heart, and the affections, not
to let the energies stagnate, and the heart
to grow cold; then the manners will
be colored accordingly and we will not see
apathy and frigidity taking the place of
more genuine qualities in ourselves, and
others. Friendship would then spring up
where now it is rarely found, and add an-
other blessing to the many by which we are
surrounded. Let us then bear in mind my
young sisters, the importance of cultivat-
ing our hearts and minds, that in all things
we may be worthy the name of saints of
the Most High; and our manners be the


INDEX of that moral and intellectual train-
ing which is necessary to maintain a per-
fect equilibrium in the balance of high in-
tellectual attainments, and advantages,
which are around the Saints of Latter-days,
that by every means, however small, we
may be assisting to bring about the time
when a people shall be prepared for the Sec-
ond coming of our Lord, and in whom God
the Father will delight to be all in all.
				HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	SMITHFIELD; CACHE CO.,
		March 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often felt a desire to bear my tes-
timony to the truth of this work, through
your columns. I know this is the only true
church upon the earth. This is the stone
that Daniel saw cut out of the mountain
without hands, and kept rolling until it
filled the whole earth. So this work is roll-
ing on, and will continue to roll and crush
everything that comes in contact with it.
	We are a blessed people above all people
upon the face of the earth; we are in the
midst of the light, therefore we cannot see
its brightness. I sometimes think we don't
appreciate our blessings and privileges as
we ought. I have taken great interest in
reading the reports of the different settle-
ments on the Grain Movement; it seems all
have partaken of the right spirit—that is,
obedience to the word of the Lord through
His servant. The sisters here are not be-
hind in that great work; we have laid a
foundation, having a goodly quantity of
grain in store this year, and we will con-
tinue from year to year, until it will be
said it is enough. We are laying the foun-
dation of a great work, and out of small
things proceedeth that which is great. The
Lord requireth the heart and a willing
mind; and the willing and obedient shall
eat the good of the land of Zion in these
last days.
	Our beloved President of the Relief So-
ciety, Mrs. Morehead, is always on the
watch tower, ready to help the poor and
needy, to comfort the sick and strengthen
the weak, and render assistance wherever
it is needed.
	We have been afflicted with sickness this
winter and had to part with many of our
dear little ones, but we are not without
hope, they are ours still if we will live
faithful to the principles of life and salva-
tion, so that we shall receive our children
again; our treasure is in heaven, let our
hearts be there also. Truly this is a day of
rejoicing—a temple is built to the Most
High—an Ensign to the people, where they
will flock like doves to the windows. Let
us continue building temples, and devote
our time and interest to the building up of
the kingdom of God upon the earth, re-
trenching from every foolish fashion and
habit. Let our garments be the workman-
ship of our own hands. May the blessings of
God attend all our efforts to do good is my
prayer.
	MARTHA M. WILLIAMS.


ELIZABETH Stuart Phelps is writing up
the woman question in the form of a story.
This fanciful style of writing is oftentimes
effective of good, and many important sub-
jects are brought convincingly to the mind
of the reader in this way, which they never
would have listened to, or read, had the
book been of a more serious character.


164		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one 
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. APRIL 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

BE A TRUE WOMAN.

	"Be a woman! On to duty!
		Raise the world from all that's low,
	Place high in the social heaven
		Virtue's fair and radiant bow.
	Lend thy influence to each effort
		That shall raise our nature human,
	Be not fashion's giddy lady—
		Be a brave, whole-souled, true woman."

	There is a vast amount spoken and written
in the present day about what women should
or should not do; advice in general terms is
given profusely. It is scarcely possible to lay
down rules for guidance in the education of
girls, especially their home-education, because
it must be modified by so many conditional or
controlling circumstances, that what would
be practicable for one, would not perhaps be
possible for others. Duty is the main point,
but duty is regulated by the different surround-
ings of a person, and the varied phases of
character. To be consistent one must take all
these perceptible differences into consideration.
Woman is active in her nature, and dreads
stagnation of any description, and if girls are
trained to habits of industry and regularity in
real work of some sort it will be a good pre-
ventive against "ennui," idleness and gos-
sip. There are many young women no doubt,
who scarcely take a thought of the time they
waste. They rebel against their fate as they
call it, and long for something fresh, some-
thing sensational, anything to break the mo-
notony of life. Therefore often in place of a
reality, they accept that which calls forth
only the emotional part of their nature, and
grasp the unreal believing it will prove the
"true alchemy," when all around them are
those resources out of which might be pro-
duced a growth of attainment in excellence
in some qualification or profession, which
would develop a corresponding happiness in
proportion to the enlargement of thought,
views and comprehension.
	After school days are over for girls, and more
particularly is this the case in large families
where there are many daughters, there is a
great need of care and watchfulness in the path
of action which should be chosen to walk in.
Young women hate to be looked upon as wait-
ing to be married, and hear the observation
made "so and so are in the market," as if they
were goods and chattels to be sold at auction;
they naturally shrink from those things and
it makes them sulk and become ill-tempered
to be considered out of place because they
don't marry. They want some systematic dis-
cipline in their life and pursuits, and to be en-
couraged in turning their mind and attention
to some worthy object, and that is safest which
presents itself most forcibly as the avocation

[Column 2]

likely to develop the best powers of woman-
hood.
	The girl at home is thus portrayed (and in-
deed the picture is not overdrawn) A little
note writing, a little vase-dressing, a little
practising (music), "a little reading, a little cro-
quet, a great deal of chatter, and, more than
all, much running in and out among near
neighbors, till the power of steady improve-
ment is frittered away and no progress is
made." There is an old Latin proverb, which
translated reads thus, "Friends are the thieves
of time," yet all love to have friends; what
would this life be without them; but this prov-
erb is true to a very great extent. Every per-
son can realize this in some degree. It is an
imperative duty to be conscientious in regard
to wasting the time of another, as well as
one's own. This is a point which seems to be
very little considered, but it is of such vital
importance that it cannot be too deeply im-
pressed upon the minds of the young.
	Let us return to our subject, marriageable
girls: not girls who want to marry but who are
just launched into womanhood and have no
fixed purpose in life, and long to find avocations
and an impetus for undeveloped capacities.
Young, beautiful, innocent, sensible, possessing
all those rare and exquisite traits which blend
so harmoniously in woman when cultivated to
a high degree, with all the expectation and
hope which belongs to that period of life,
knowing there is something expected of them,
but without positive force to step forward and
carve out any special purpose alone. Parents
and friends sometimes forget that these young
women are full of vigor, and must have scope
for action, and that once turned into some prop-
er channel, they could so discipline their own
minds and characters as to effect their whole
after life for good. They want some regular,
steady employment of genuine labor, else per-
chance they drift into habits of irregularity
and try to "kill time," perhaps just through
the want of proper advise and help from those
who do not fully realize how important is the
issue at stake. Every profession and avenue
of labor that opens for woman is a blessing;
there is no occasion for waiting girls, you have
no time to wait, there is to much real work to
be done for any hands to lay idle. Your mis-
sion upon this earth is of as much consequence
as that of your brother-man, and by all avail-
able means prepare yourselves physically, mor-
ally, mentally and spiritually for the great
battle of life, and the more real strength you
have time to gather for the conflict, the more
sure and steadfast will be your onward course,
and the better will you be prepared to lend as-
sistance to others. Learn adaptability to the
times, the places and the circumstances, wher-
ever your path of duty may be, and cultivate
application and endurance of purpose, and re-
member "he who builds a pyramid builds a
great thing, but he who builds a character, a
greater."
	E. B. Wells.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE RETURN thanks for the "Utah Musical
Bouquet," edited by Daynes & Son. We
watch with pleasurable interest all the im-
provements which tend to develop talent
among the people. We are gratified to see so
many home productions in songs and music.
The Temperance Song, "Pearly Water, Pure
As Snow," we conscientiously recommend as
suitable for day or Sunday Schools. Too
much cannot be done to influence the young
on the subject of Temperance.
	NOTICE: Mrs. H. Strickland has recently


opened a small store one door east of Mrs.
Sloan's establishment, Second South Street.
Mrs. Strickland has a variety of fancy notions
for sale; knits ladies and gent's hosiery, on the
Lamb machine, and also carries on dress-mak-
ing. She respectfully invites the patronage of
her friends, and all who are interested in home-
manufacture.
	ON SATURDAY morning, March 24, President
D. H. Wells and wife, with some other mem-
bers of his family, and Hon. George Q. Cannon
left this city for St. George. Bishop Edwin
D. Woolley, Bishop Samuel Woolley with some
others of their family, and Prof. O. H. Riggs,
also accompanied them making up quite a
a pleasant party, they will reach St. George
Tuesday next.
	WE LEARN by letter to the Deseret News
that the company that left Salt Lake City
Monday March 19, "enroute" for St. George
were enjoying themselves vastly by the way,
holding meetings in different places and meet-
ing with old friends and acquaintances. We
noticed the sisters were doing their part in ad-
dressing meetings and giving counsel to the
Relief Societies and organizations of women.
The meeting at Meadow Creek Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff and Mrs. Phebe Snow addressed the
sisters, and at Kanab, Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Mrs. Jane S. Richards.
	THE COLUMBIA Herald of March 21, pub-
lished in Columbia, Pa., contains an interest-
ing letter from Elder A. M. Musser of this
city, in which he contrasts the institutions of
this people, religious, social and educational,
with those existing in the world. He relates
in brief the condition in which the saints
found this country, and the drivings and mob-
violence which had been the cause of the exit
of the Latter-day Saints from the borders of
civilization. Elder Musser is publishing a
pamphlet there on the belief of this people con-
taining a defense of Polygamy.


SISTERS BE IN EARNEST.

	[The article below is republished from EX-
PONENT No. 10, Oct. 15, 1876. It was written
by SPECIAL request of President Brigham
Young, and approved by him before its publi-
cation. We have been asked to furnish copies
of this article at different times, and having
no spare numbers, we decided to give it to the
public in print again. In consideration also of
its being seed-time, and that this people antic-
ipate storing all the grain they possibly can
this season, they cannot be too deeply im-
pressed with the importance of the Grain
Movement. And in the season thereof let all
the Latter-day Saints forget not to ask Him
who giveth seed time and harvest, to multiply
the measures of harvests that the Saints
throughout all the borders of the land may
have an abundance of grain to store up for
Zion.]
	At the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the wo-
men of this Territory to the subject of saving
grain. It is one important item which Presi-
dent Young has labored diligently to impress
upon this people ever since their residence in
these valleys. His advice has ever been to the
brethren to cultivate the soil and let the mines,
and mining speculations alone, for the grain
was of more consequence than gold or silver.
And these people are witnesses to that fact;
particularly having experienced the scarcity of
provisions and especially of breadstuffs, in the
earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people abundantly
in the few years past in their fields and in their


[Column 1]

stores of grain and provisions; and as in al-
most every other case where there is a profu-
sion of blessings, the people who receive them
become indifferent and do not appreciate them
as they ought. The people have been careless
in regard to taking care of their grain and
many other things. In many instances they
neglect to pay their tithing, and dispose of
their products in such a manner as, were it to
continue, the Lord would be sorely displeased
with them. This year grain is unusually low, yet
the grasshoppers have been visiting different
parts of the Territory, and, it is feared by
many, have laid their eggs; therefore it is
more than ever essential that such measures
be taken as will secure the grain now in mar-
ket. The Relief Societies and Co-operative or-
ganizations in which some of the women of
this Terriory are interested, have funds at
their disposal from time to time, which can be
made available to carry out President Young's
wishes in regard to buying and taking care of
the grain.
	It is in no doubt the best investment of
means that could possibly be made, for if the
prophecies of the Scriptures, both ancient and
modern, and of Joseph Smith are to be fulfill-
ed, which the Latter-day Saints profess to be-
lieve, there will be a desolating famine in the
land; and if the women of this Territory will
be wise, and hearken unto the counsel given to
them now, there is no doubt that the result
will be an eminent success. If the means now
on hand in the societies and women's associa-
tions can be turned into grain, and such meas-
ures taken to store it and preserve it from
damp and all other things that would damage,
or destroy it, as can be made practicable ac-
cording to circumstances and advantages, then
one point will be gained towards the temporal
salvation of this people in case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are gen-
erally earnest, and our advice would be imme-
diately without any delay (except such as is
unavoidable) to commence to carry out Presi-
dent Young's counsel in this matter. Where
there is a will there is (almost invariably) a
way, and in this matter there should be a per-
sonal and individual as well as a general inter-
est. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any
scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on
this earnestness depends much of the success of
whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you de-
termine to do anything of whatever name or
nature.first be sure it is the proper thing to do,
and then without losing time, bring your ener-
gies into immediate requisition and you are al-
most sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable of
carrying out President Young's counsel in this
matter; and if they do not they will be left
without excuse; he has called upon the breth-
ren until he has become wearied, and now he
appeals to the sisters. Is not this a proof of
his confidence in their desire to listen to coun-
sel? The sisters will have ample opportunity
now to prove their ability for financiering; and
it is greatly to be hoped that they will mani-
fest such earnestness in this matter as cannot
fail to accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the sisters,
that they enter into such arrangements as are
applicable to their circumstances in their var-
rious districts and settlements, to build store-
houses for the storing of their grain in the sec-
tions of country as they shall divide off or ap-
portion to certain localities; also that they so-
licit donations from their husbands and the
brethren to assist them in carrying out this en-
terprise, both for the building of the store-
houses and also in obtaining grain to fill them,
and preserve it for future need.

[Column 2]

	We sincerely hope that what has been said
will be sufficient to rouse a spirit of determin-
ation in the minds of the women of Utah, to
devise and to put in practice, such measures as
shall be economical and wise, and for the gen-
eral good of all concerned.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT		165


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

			CENTREVILLE, March 20th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Believing that a few items from here touch-
ing the great work in which we are all engag-
ed will be gratifying to you, permit me to state
that we are blessed with a general time of
health in this place, with an increasing desire
made apparent to walk as near the line of duty
as is possible, when our circumstances are tak-
en into consideration. I am proud to say that
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association
is in a flourishing condition, each and every
member thereof responding cheerfully to all
the requirements made of them, and I rejoice
to be associated with them and all such as love
and serve God in the Latt[-]r-day kingdom, and
that I have the privilege of doing something
though small to help roll it forth. A general
good feeling akin to inspiration prevails in the
Relief Society, and a desire to grow in grace,
and in the knowledge of the truth. The Young
Mens' Association is also i[-] a flourishing con-
dition.
	Praying for the success of your valuable pa-
per and every laudable endeavor in the king-
dom of God, we subscribe ourselves your sis-
ters in the Gospel,
					ELIZABETH WADOUP,
					CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.

		CLIFTON, IDAHO, March 11th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from this little settle-
ment would be expected, I proceed to let you
know how we get along. The sisters meet
twice a month and we enjoy a goodly portion
of the spirit of God in our meetings. Some of
the sisters as well as the brethren have renew-
ed their covenants, and all appear to be awak-
ening to a sense of their duties. We had a
visit from Bro. Hardy of Salt Lake City, and
we all enjoyed ouselves, and his instructions
have been duly appreciated by the brethren,
from the spirit manifested by them. Our Sab-
bath School and Sabbath meetings are well
attended.
	We have a Retrenchment Society organized
in which the young girls are very much inter-
ested. We called a meeting on the 1st of Feb.
to consider the Grain Movement. It was an
excellent meeting, thirteen sisters joined our
society and we number now over thirty mem-
bers. We have about thirty bushels of wheat
now in the bin and the prospect of some
more.
The EXPONENT is received and duly appre-
ciated by the sisters. We look forward with
pleasant anticipation for a visit from some of
the sisters from Salt Lake City.
				Your Sister, etc.
						JANE M. HOWELL.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	I hope that in writing these few lines, I may
at least be able to do myself some good, and
that it may tend to develop my own mind. I
think it is a great and eventful day in which
we live; many great things are transpiring
among the nations, and we can realize that
the "signs of the times," are manifest; this
shows me the necessity of living more faithful
before the Lord, and it leaves no time to idle

[Column 2]
away, but to be watchful and prayerful every
hour of our lives and be ready and willing at
all times to discharge to the best of our ability
every duty resting upon us to perform in this
kingdom, and I think one of the greatest du-
ties resting upon us as a band of sisters, is the
saving of our GRAIN and storing it away for a
day of need, and what a great privilege this is
granted us to bring together our small means
thus, to save ourselves and those who shall
flock to us for assistance in a day of need!
What great blessings are conferred upon us,
and still the world call us "the down trodden
women of Utah." I feel thankful to my
Heavenly Father that I live in this glorious
day, and that I have a standing in this king-
dom, and that the Lord through His priest-
hood upon the earth, thus forwarnes us of the
judgments that He is about to pour our upon
the earth. I think we are slow to hearken to
His voice. I desire to take hold with renewed
energy, of the duties resting upon me, and im-
prove the golden opportunities that are grant-
ed me for acquiring knowledge, for I know
there is a great work to be performed; and the
Lord has said that in the last days "He will
cut His work short in righteousness."
	We are desirous to be co-workers with the
brethren, and may we be true aids in the good
cause of advancing this kingdom, is my s[-]n-
cere wish for us all.
				CHRISTINE M. WARNICK.
	Pleasant Grove, March 13, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society comprising several districts,
lying far away on either side of Morgan City,
deprived many sisters of the privilege of at-
tending meetings and of doing the good it was
in their hearts to do. Therefore, Bishop Smith
who cares for his flock with fatherly solicitude,
decided to organize a Relief Society in each
little branch of his ward; he therefore called a
general meeting of the sisters, for the purpose
of dissolving the society, and to divide the
stock on hand among the several branches.
The total stock on hand is two hundred and
eighty-eight dollars and thirteen cents.
	We met again on the 19th inst. to reorganize
the old branch of South Morgan. The elec-
tions were as follows: Mrs. Lydia Rich Presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary Ann Simmons, and Mrs. Ann
Fry Counselors; Mrs. Rawb Secretary; Mrs.
Annie Lesnell, Treasurer. Our beloved Bish-
op being very sick, E[-]ders R. Fry, W. Edding-
ton and D. Ball addressed the meeting and or-
dained the officers.
	I hope that you will hear oftener, and good
news from this corner of the vineyard, for I
feel vividly impressed that the harvest is close
at hand. And now, good-bye dear little EX-
PONENT, may thy pithy columns, impart as
much warmth and comfort of soul to every
weary head and heart, as they do to
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ESTHER C. E. Francis.

	P. S.—Would it not be a good plan, for
every Society to keep a copy of the EXPONENT
smooth and clean, to be bound after awhile, in
a handsome volume? And so keep a Record
of every Branch of this great and glorious en-
terprise; namely, the Relief Society of Utah.
							E. C. E. F.


MRS. KING.—We are pleased to announce to
the many friends of Mrs. Hannah T. King
that she has secured the agency for Holman's
great Crown Family Bible, the most superb
edition ever published in this country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

FROM BEAVER TO ST. GEORGE.

	From Beaver the road is interesting af-
ter leaving the main highway, when it
takes an easterly direction through the fa-
mous Fremont-pass, gradually growing nar-
rower until the rocks are from two to three
hundred feet, perpendicular, ragged, and ir-
regular, with deep fissures where the ce-
dar and pine have thrown their firm,
strong roots and resist the fierce gales that
sweep like avenging spirits over mountain
and glen. Six miles from the entrance
some small springs are found, which sup-
ply the tired traveler with the cool refresh-
ing draught of clear, soft, water; passing
along, mountain and hill-side are covered
with the verdure of the evergreen trees
and shrubs and the simple though beauti-
ful wild flowers of which there is a great
variety, lark-spurs, roses, violets, and the
sage, in whose deep, beautiful cup the
honey-bee revels joyously until the last
leaf drops faded forever; the aspen in smal
groves here and there quivers in the
breeze, as if truly in affright (as tradition
has it) at the most solemn scene of the Sav-
ior's crucifixion.
	The road from the springs for some dis-
tance is very uneven and rocky, opening
presently into a small valley within
whose bounds the Prarie Dog, a species of
Marmot lives in comparative security and
peace, greeting the traveler at times with
his short snapping bark. Of two roads here,
one diverging to the right passes almost
directly through Bear Valley, cutting off,
it is said, some miles of rocky road, the oth-
er continuing on almost in the same direc-
tion as at first, passes over the hills reach-
ing the Sevier, some miles below the other,
crossing on its way a long stretch called
the five mile rocky hill. The road leading
through Bear Valley Cañon is most delight-
ful; the bottom lands covered in some pla-
ces with a species of wheat grass, tall and
thrifty, also the common grass which cat-
tle prefer, in abundance; tiny springs form
a small stream called Bear Creek which
flows into the Sevier a short distance be-
low the mouth of the cañon.
	Along the Sevier the country presents a
different aspect, dotted here and there with
farm houses and ranch buildings, many of
which are now deserted as the range in
many places has been completely over-
stocked with cattle. Many very thrifty
farms are seen, with beautiful meadows
yielding a large supply of hay; wheat and
corn are raised in abundance. The scenery
is grandly sublime in many places. Arriv-
ing at Panguitch, (so called from the lake
above, which provides the inhabitants with
a plentiful supply of fish and a clear stream
of soft water flowing through all parts
of the town;) here we find an abundance of
excellent butter and cheese; very few veg-
etables being raised within its limits; quite
a number of the inhabitants spend their
summers ranching, and because of this the
place has a somewhat untidy appearance.
Here a very good bridge crosses the Se-
vier about a mile from the town, the only
one in this part of the country as the stream
is forded in many places, and grows gradu-
ally smaller as the road proceeds toward
the rim of the basin, the dividing line be-
tween the northern and southern slope; as
the Sevier loses its tributaries it becomes
a bright, clear stream only the size of a
common creek; the water soft and of a de-
licious coolness issuing from a cañon on the
right, supplied with springs far up among
the pines, where those fond of fish can ex-
ercise their patience by catching, with hook
and line, the spotted mountain trout, or

[Column 2]

gather, in its season, the wild fruit which
grows here in abundance. Mr. Wm. Asa
resides at the mouth of the cañon, and trav-
elers often find rest and refreshment here,
in this solitude.
	Leaving this place a small stream on the
left flowing from springs near the rim of
the basin, is covered in spots with a curious
plant that seems to float on the water, bear-
ing small white flowers, very much resem-
bling the common plum blossom, and delic-
iously fragrant, having long vine-like stems
and feathery leaves. The road gradually
ascending to Cutter's ranch, a distance of
two miles, diverging to the right, traverses
a long swell of wire-grass land; the hill
sides along are not as steep here, and are
covered with tall pines. Cliffs of red and
white sand stone, castellated and strangely
picturesque arise here and there forming
most beautiful scenery, and one might eas-
ily imagine they were the remains of some
ruined city of Old.
	Entering the pine forest after a drive of
two or three miles, a small log cabin on a
knoll is the next sign of life and habitation,
though only a snmmer residence, the place
being used for a sheep ranch. Cattle de-
sert the grass land below during the hot
weather on account of the large fly which
is too annoying to endure. The road from
here is a delightful drive through open
glades, sunny nooks, and shady dells, grad-
ually ascending, thus bringing the traveler
to the RIM of the great basin of North
America; from whence the descent passes
through a dense pine forest interspersed
with plants and flowers whose rich perfume
floats out on the summer air, mingling with
that of pine and cedar, bringing as it were,
new life to both body and mind, and charm-
ing the eye with varied tints and changing
hues.
	MORE ANON.


[Column 1]

EXECUTIVENESS.
	There is a marvellous difference among
individuals with respect to their accom-
plishing work. Some pass a lifetime in do-
ing what amounts to nothing. They seem
born to 'putter,' to waste themselves on
trifling, weak, useless tasks; mere human
lichens are they, parasites, chips on the cur-
rent of life, drifting aimlessly. Others have
every day something to show for their
time:
	"Something accomplished, something done,
	Hath earned a night's repose."
These possess a purpose and energy, a strong
will, a clear perception, and often an active
imagination; all of which combined, render
them motors in society. Though a great
deal depends on original endowment, a
great deal also depends on training. Child-
ren who are brought up to do nothing, gen-
erally do nothing. Those who are trained
from infancy in all ways of self-help and
helpfulness to others, have the ability to
help themselves and help others. "To him
that hath shall be given." Lord Bacon says:
"There is no stand or impediment in the
wit but may be wrought out by fit studies.
If a man's wit be wandering, let him study
mathematics; for in demonstrations, if his
wit be called away never so little, he must
begin again; so every defect of mind may
have a special receipt." This last asser-
tion is as true in matters pertaining to char-
acter as in those intellectual. The purpose-
less individual may, if he will, change him-
self in this particular, by setting himself
tasks to perform, and steadily performing
them. This may be found at first laborious;

[Column 2]

and even painful; but habit renders all
things easy.
	This setting one's self tasks, however,
does not as surely develop one's powers as
having these tasks set by some one else;
and of all taskmasters, stern necessity has
the most to show for his pupils on exami-
nation day. Let no one who loves himself
repine at the commands of this stern task-
master; his mission is most beneficient.
From what rough and crude material does
he often fashion noble, accomplished, and
beneficient men and women! This he does
by laying heavy burdens on them, by sub-
jecting them to hard and cruel blows from
the hand of fortune, by compelling them to
make brick without straw, by forcing
them to develop every resource of their
power, and often every capability they pos-
sess for doing and suffering.
	It is useless for one without a definite
purpose or plan to dream of accomplishing
much. Few indeed are they upon whom
this greatness is thrust. The doers in this
life are those who intend to do; all others
are cumberers of the ground—thistles,
weeds, unfruitful figtrees destined to per-
ish. It is a very easy matter to spend day
after day and week after week in merely
going through the forms of doing, and at
the end of this lime have actually nothing
accomplished. The butterfly doubtless vis-
its as many flowers as the bee, the grass-
hopper goes over as much ground as the
ant, but how different the showings in the
two contrasted cases. A purpose animates
the bee and the ant; one moves in a "bee
line" to the accomplishment of her pur-
pose, the other works with such persistent
industry that for 3,000 years at least the ant
has been an example known and read of by
as many as have studied her ways.
	A great deal of the time of even purpose-
ful men and women is wasted for want of a
well digested plan of action. The execu-
tive individual has a pretty clear idea, first
of exactly what he wishes to accomplish,
and secondly of the manner in which
he intends to work. He does not blunder
into a thing and blunder on all the way
through it. He may not see what his last
step will be, but he sees quite clearly what
his first step must be, and then the second,
and, as he progresses, the end becomes
clear. He does not allow himself to be di-
verted or detained from his work by slight
causes, petty hindrances, trivial interrup-
tions. If one stops to follow all the little
side-paths that lead off from the main thor-
ough-fare from Joppa to Jerusalem he will
be a long time in reaching that ancient cap-
ital. The way to secure main issues is to
neglect all smaller ones that have not a di-
rect bearing on the success aimed at.—A
woman writer in the New York Tribune.—


HINTS TO WRITERS AND SPEAKERS.

	William Cullen Bryant gave the follow-
ing excellent advice to a young man who
offered him an article for the "Evening
Post:"
	My young friend, I observe that you
have used several French expressions in
your article. I think if you will study the
English language, that you will find it cap-
able of expressing all the ideas you may
have.
	I have always found it so, and in all that
I have written, I do not recall an instance
where I was tempted to use a foreign word,
but that on searching I found a better one
in my own language.
	Be simple, unaffected; be honest in your
speaking and writing. Never use a long


word when a short one will do. Call a
spade, a spade, not a well-known oblong in-
strument of manual industry; let a home
be a home, and not a residance; a place a
place, and not a locality; and so with the
rest. Where a short word will do, you lose
by using a long one. You lose in clearness;
you lose in honest expression of meaning,
and in the estimation of all men who are
competent to judge, you lose in reputation
for ability.
	The only way to shine, even in this false
world, is to be modest and unassuming.
Falsehood may be a very thick crust, but in
the course of time it will find a place to
break through. Elegance of language may
not be in the power of all of us, but sim-
plicity and straightforwardness are.
	Write much as you would speak; speak
as you think. If with your inferior, speak no
coarser than usual; if with your superior,
speak no finer. Be what you say, and within
the rules of prudence. No one was ever a
gainer by singularity of words or in pronun-
ciation. The truly wise man will speak
that no one will observe how he speaks. A
man may show a great knowledge of chem-
istry by carrying about bladders of strange
gases to breathe, but he will enjoy better
health, and find more time for business,
who lives on common air.
	Sidney Smith once remarked: After you
have written an article, take your pen and
strike out half the words, and you will be
surprised to find how much stronger it is.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Sisters do we understand why we are
placed here upon this earth? Do we fully
realize the responsibility resting upon us?
The duty of woman upon this earth is to
"bear the souls of men," and prepare them-
selves for a future existence. Each per-
son has to work out his or her own salva-
tion. How necessary it then is for us to
live in obedience to the laws of God as giv-
en through the mouth of His prophet. If
we cannot live in obedience to those laws
here, how can we expect to live in heaven
and enjoy His presence. It is necessary for
us to lay a firm foundation while we dwell
here in time, that we may have something
to build upon in eternity. Teach our child-
ren by example as well as by precept, train
them with all diligence to walk in the
ways of the Lord.
	We know that light, knowledge, intelli-
gence and wisdom are ours if we seek them
diligently in humility. We also know that
the end draweth nearer and nearer, and the
hour of trial for all who dwell upon the
earth is near at hand, and will be terribly
severe; and that His work will be cut short
in righteousness.
	If we do all we can that is right, learn
all we can that will benefit us now and
hereafter, we will not have done more than
God will require of us. Let us keep the
spirit of God continually in our hearts,
having charity for each other's failings,
striving hard meanwhile, to overcome our
own short comings, and with the help of
God if we do these things, we will conquer
in the end.
	D. E. DUDLEY.
Clifton, Idaho, March 8, 1877.

	WELLSVILLE, Feb. 10, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will give you a few items of a general
nature respecting woman's work and pro-
gress.  In our meetings many of the sisters
young and old arise and bear faithful and


earnest testimonies to the truth of the ev-
erlasting Gospel. I believe the sisters who
covenanted to eschew round dancing have
faithfully kept their covenants inviolate.
	The majority of the people are earnestly
striving to live by every word that pro-
ceedeth out of the mouth of God, and their
subscriptions to the Logan Temple, and all
other public and private benefits, bear am-
ple testimony. A few among us, when the
bridegroom cometh, may be caught nap-
ping and our lamps devoid of oil, but the
gospel net catches of all kinds.
	Considerable sickness has prevailed among
the people inthis valley—diphtheria among
the children, but we are in the hands of
God and have full faith in His guidance.
With prayers continually for your success
in your work of love, I remain your sister
and fellow-laborer in the cause of truth, and
for the redemption of Zion.	M. E. M.


PATIENCE AND PERSEVERENCE.

	Patience is one of the powers of endur-
ance. Perseverance is an auxiliary and
these help us to be resigned to our lots in
life. If true patience characterizes our
every act, how much happier we would all
be. We should study the dispositions of
those we are associated with at home,
around our fireside first, and if little errors
are committed be patient over them. Be
patient with the dear little ones, with fa-
ther and mother and especially with the
aged who depend upon us for comfort and
support. Remember while we are patient
with those we love and respect, how others
who love us have been patient with our
weaknesses in the past, and will be, we
trust in the future, till the end of our days.
A wife and mother who is truly forbearing
at all times, thus adds greatly to the happi-
ness of her husband and makes a little
Eden for herself and children, and if sick-
ness or trouble come s in any form, let us
study how best to bear it with resignation
and strength of character. Let us help
what we can, but if it is beyond what we
can control let us not fret about it, for it
makes all around us unhappy, to see us
meeting trouble half way, it also displeas-
es God who understands what is for our
good, and only gives us trials, that through
them we may become sanctified, and if we
live in accordance with the best light we
can obtain, and bear patiently all we are
called to endure, we will be satisfied and
happy here, and prepared to dwell with the
just hereafter. Let us choose the sunny
side of life, and not glance too often at the
dark side of the picture. Life is too short
to spend it in vain regrets.
	MARY STUART.
Hyde Park, March 11, 1877


R. S. REPORTS.

	PARIS, ONEIDA Co., Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few lines from this place
might be acceptable to the many readers of
your excellent paper. The Lord has seen
fit to favor the inhabitants of Bear Lake
valley with a mild winter, for which we
feel truly thankful. The little snow we
have had (which would not exceed one foot)
has mostly disappeared.
	The saints as a general thing feel well;
we have very many meetings and they are
well attended; very few parties and thea-
tres. I never knew a time when the inter-
est of the young and rising generation was
so much at heart and sought after by our


President and Bishop and those whose right
it is to look after and preside over this
stake of Zion, as at the present time. They
are ever ready with their timely advice
and counsel to young and old. We have
good week-day and Sabbath schools which
are well attended. Our Relief and Re-
trenchment meetings are excellent, Pres't.
Rich often meets with us. We have made
an effort to purchase grain, but are sorry to
say that it is but a feeble one compared
with some of the accounts we see in the
EXPONENT. Our crops last year were most-
ly cut off by the frost and it is rather a
hard matter to lay up grain where there is
none: but we mean to "try, try again," and
my faith is that "where there's a will
there's a way."
	There has been some sickness during the
winter, mostly among the children not
many deaths have occurred however, except
in Montpelier where a number of children
have died from a disease, resembling in
some respects Diphtheria. I do not consider
it incurable when taken in time. Many
people let diseases run too long without
treatment, leaving nature to perform a task
by far superior to her strength.
	Your valuable paper is read with interest
by many of the sisters and brethren too,
and for its welfare and advancement you
have our best wishes.	EMELINE RICH.


MALAD CITY, March 10, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	As we have lately held our annual meet-
ing at this place, it may not be amiss if you
have space, to publish our report, &c., for
the year ending, Jun. 31st, 1877. We have
one hundred and sixteen members.
	Amounts collected............... $209.00
	Disbursed for different charita-
	able purposes..........——.....	102.00
	Amount on hand.................	107.00
							———
			Total....................	209.00
	The members, with but very few excep-
tions, attend their meetings regularly, and
perform other duties connected with our
holy calling. We can truly say that our
Society is in a flourishing condition; we
are trying to assist our brethren who are
called to labor in the ministry, to establish
truth and righteousness in this part of the
Lord's vineyard. Although we have con-
siderable opposition here, as the wicked are
laboring hard for the supremacy, our motto
is onward, the Lord being our helper, until
all the enemies of truth are subdued.
	We desire also to be one with our sisters
in the different settlements of Utah, to fol-
low out the counsels of our beloved Presi-
dent, Brigham Young, with regard to pur-
chasing and storing grain. Our worthy
Bishop Daniels has been kind enough to
proffer us room in his granary to store up
our wheat. A committee of four has been
appointed to do the buying, and they are
busy in the work. With the help of our
brethren, who are always ready and willing
to assist us, we mean to gather in all we
can this season, and have it secured for a
day of want.
	We hold our meetings once in two weeks
and they are well attended. We have
great cause to feel well, as everything seems
conducive to our happiness; no sign of sick-
ness: prosperity and plenty seem to abound
in all the habitations of the Latter-day
Saints in this beautiful valley. The snow
is all gone; farming and gardening have
commenced; the prospects are favorable for
a good crop this season. We have been
called upon by our bishop to do what we


can towards building the temple. We al-
ways desire to be co-workers with our breth-
ren and to respond to their calls. We have
made up a subscription list of $400.00 for
1877. Hoping that our lives may be spared
to see a temple to the Lord finished in Salt
Lake City. We feel that we have been
highly honored in being selected out from
amongst this wicked and perverse genera-
tion, to help bring about the purposes of
the Almighty in this last dispensation of
the fulness of times.
	We also consider that our responsibilities
are very great indeed, as mothers and
daughters in Israel; and our duties are
many in directing the minds of the young
in the ways of the Lord. May we all of us
at all times strive to teach and practice cor-
rect principles; may we all enjoy a greater
portion of the Spirit of the Lord, which
will yield us happiness in this world, and
salvation in the world to come, is our earn-
est desire.
	JANE PRICE, President,
	ANN DANIELS,
	ESTHER LUSK,		Couselors,
	CATHERINE DAVIS,	Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

A SPECIFIC FOR SMALL-POX.

	Saltpetre was accidently discovered to be a
specific for this loathsome disease. It was in the
following manner:
	A middle-aged lady, the mother of six child-
ren, had often sought relief from pain in the back
by taking saltpetre and brandy. Small-pox was
prevailing in the vicinity. Mrs.——was expos-
ed to it, and contracted the disease. The premon-
itory symptoms were very violent—fever extremely
high—severe pain in the head, and excruciating
pain in the region of the kidneys.
	A physician was called during the night, but,
in doubt as to the nature of the disease, though
suspecting it to be a case of small-pox, he made
no prescription, promising to reaurn at early
dawn. Fever and pain increasing she begged her
husband to prepare for her the old preparation of
saltpetre and brandy. The latter was then not to
be had, but he crushed a piece of nitre as large as
a common white bean. This she took in a tea-
spoonful of cold water. Feeling some better the
dose was once or twice repeated. Pain soon sub-
sided and she slept well during the remainder of
the night and awakened feeling perfectly well!
When the doctor called he was greatly astonished
to see Mrs.——superintending the affairs of her
houshold. He left without making any pre-
scription. She had sixty well defined pustules in
her face; but they were but slightly inflamed and
not at all painful. The development of smallpox
on her entire person were in number and appear-
ance in keeping with those on her face.
	In due time all her children and her hnsband
were similarly affected by fever and pain in the
head and back, and received similar treatment
and the results were the same. Several families
caught the prevailing contagion, to whom——
told his story and recommended the same remedy,
and in every case the results were favorable.
	These facts came to us at first hand, and the
reader may rely upon them as exact statements
without embelishments or exaggeration. Here
were from ten to twelve cases all relieved from
pain and fever in less than an hour. The pustules
were speedily developed, but were more like the
disease in its convalescent stages than at any oth-
er period. As to the quantity given, it was not
at all definite, but the first patient, within an
hour, must have taken of nitre the bulk of three
ordinary white navy beans.
	We give these statements because we learn
from various sources that smallpox is unusually
prevalent. Physicians and cautious nurses would
do well to give nitre a fair and full trial. The


cases to which we refer were those of active labor-
ing people living in small tenements, and in the
winter season. It will be well to give the alleged
specific a fair trial. Physicians should do so and
report results.
	We cannot state from personal knowledge, but
we are under the impression that all these pa-
tients had been vaccinated in their youth.—Jour-
nal of Commerce.


MRS. Emma Malloy, of Indiana, has been
lecturing in Vermont. Mrs. Malloy is one
of those brave women who dares to speak
in unmeasured terms of hypocrisy and
pride in churches and among the religious
sects of the day. She is whole-souled in
the cause of Temperance. In one of her
lectures she quoted these words of Theodore
Cuyler—"Some people are more afraid of
soiling carpets than soiling the souls of
men.” 
	THE sweetest and most signal revenge to in-
flict upon enemies who seek to belittle our la-
bors or under-estimate our abilities, is to do
everything well, to lead irreproachable lives,
to earn popular confidence and respect, to es-
chew all but laudable undertakings, to succeed
in every act and labor. Success is the most ef-
fectual reproach to envy, malice, and unfriend-
liness.


[Column 1]
PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
	or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
		mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
		Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, G[--]ts' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

		Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
