VOL. 5		 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1877.  No. 24.﻿


RUSTIC WARBLINGS.

The birds are building their pretty nests,
	And sounding their love notes clear and sweet;
The bees are busy and nothing rests;
	Nature seems dancing with fairy feet.

Dear little birds, you may chipper and sing,
	While art and industry your home secures,
As if for your sakes alone came Spring—
	But I know a love tale as sweet as yours.

Beautiful spring-time! cheery and mild,
	With silvery showers and radiant sun:
I could frolic once more like a joyous child,
	Only for work that must be done,

I have thoughts to think, almost too dear
	To lock in my bosom, or to unfold:
I will pencil them down on the paper here,
	And who shall know if they're weak or bold?

I know somebody good and true,
	Whose manly heart is just and kind:
If his eyes are not of the "deepest blue,"
	And his hair "so beautiful!" never mind.

Although not a favorite with the girls,
	Who puff their dresses and flaunt and flirt,
And simper and gossip and shake their curls;
	Although in courting he's no expert;

Yet, children around him feel no neglect,
	The poor are blest from his ample store,
He treats the aged with great respect,
	He is good to his mother—what man does more?

He can laugh as heartily as the best,
	And greatly enjoys a pleasant joke;
But he makes the Sabbath a day of rest;
	He drinks no wine and does not smoke.

Indeed my hero has virtues rare,
	He is free from fashion's unhallowed taint,
He has good, sound sense, he has learning fair,
	He's a model man, he's a brave young saint. 

He loves and his love he dares confess,
	Like the most and best of moral men;
Some young lady may whisper "yes!"
	And she'll be somebody's darling then.

Dear little birdies, sing love tales,
	Irrespective of listening guests;
It is happy May and love prevails,
	So chipper and whistle and build your nests.

My heart is o'erflowing with gladness too,
	My dream of love is so sweet and pure;
I wish I could warble it forth like you,
	But now I must go to my work "for sure."

		WAMSUSIE.
May, 1873.


[For the EXPONENT.
OUR DUTIES AS DAUGHTERS
OF ZION.
"Let us then be up and doing
With a heart for any fate."
 The above are the words of a poet, and
let us put them into practice, and see if we
cannot accomplish more good than we are
now doing.
 Every little while, my dear sisters, we
hear of missionaries being called to go to
different parts of the world to preach the
gospel, others to make new settlements;
and many other duties to perform that
would not be advisable for us to step for-
ward and do.  But for all this we can do
thousands of things that we are not very
diligent in performing, where we would
not be counted stepping over the thresh-
hold of modesty and propriety.  If we can-
not go to foreign countries and preach to
the heathens, if we cannot go and make
new settlements, and help to widen the
borders of Zion, if we cannot quarry, polish
and lay up rock for the temple, we need
not be idle, God never designed that we
should work in this way; but He has given
us our portion of work, and it is for us to
step forward as brave sisters and do it;
we can encourage the brethren in being
faithful to the principles of their religion
and help to build up the kingdom of God.
 We can learn to raise silk, make our own
dresses, ribbons, hats, bonnets, flowers,
trimmings, laces, gloves, and many other
things too numerous to mention, that would
save a great expense and what we save, give
as a donation to a temple, or for some other
noble work that will bless the people of
God.
 By hard study, diligence and persever-
ance, we may qualify ourselves as school-
teachers, clerks, cashiers, telegraphs opera-
tors and fill positions of honor and trust.
Then let us be faithful and let it not be
said that men are kept from other duties
to fill positions that we might occupy to our
credit.
 Let us step forward as brave volunteers
in this great work and take upon ourselves
the responsibilites of accepting situations
in our schools, our stores and telegraph offi-
ces, etc.  Let us be straightforward and
firm in our dealings, gentle and loving in
our governing, courteous and polite in our
manners, lively interesting and instructive
in our conversation ,constant and confiding
in our friendships, and love all that is good,
noble and exalting, ever striving to help
one another, and keep the commandments
of God our heavenly Father.
 We should learn to be our own doctors,
by having faith in the power of the Priest-
hood, and have power to heal the sick by
the laying on of hands.
 We should set an example that will be
worthy of following, and let our every act
be our recommendation into good society.
Encourage the brethren in their works, and
strengthen them in the faith by our pray-
ers.
					MAY B. EUNO.
Fairfield, April 25.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	VASSAR COLLEGE is doing a good work
for future generations by giving opportuni-
ties to women of obtaining not only a high-
er education for themselves but these wo-
men will bequeath to posterity the impress
of their work.
	A MONTHLY magazine is published in
London called the English Woman's Re-
view, which is devoted to social and indus-
trial questions. The "Woman's Journal"
says, it is a perfect mine of facts and infor-
mations on the Woman question.
	THE FRENCH Societi du Deoit des Fum-
mes" held an interesting meeting lately in
Paris in the Salle Lax, which was presided
over by M. Armard Duportal, Deputy for
Toulouse; supported by M. Brisson, mem-
bers of the Municipal Counsel of Paris.
One of the questions brought before the
meeting and upon which papers were read
and speeches were made was "la recherche


de la paterniti." The French law forbids
every attempt to make known the paterni-
ty of illegitimate children. Statistics were
presented showing the number of these
fatherless children, who either die in the
first months of their existence, or live to
people the prisons and galleys.—Ex.
	It seems fully time that women were per-
mitted to speak in their own defense where
such cruelty and oppression exists to
wards the unfortunate. If the women of
America obtain Universal Suffrage it is
probable they may in many ways assist wo-
men of other countries in the protection of
their liberties and rights. Would such laws
as these exist if woman was allowed a voice
in the matter? No! the love of offspring is
too strong with woman, and she bears too
much the impress of divinity in her na-
ture.


NATIONAL WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE
			CONVENTION.

	The Tenth Annual Convention of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association,
will be held in Masonic Hall, corner 6th,
Ave. and 23d St. New York, May 24, 1877.
	"The great effort of the National Wo-
man's Suffrage Association this year, will
be for the 16th amendment which shall
specifically declare woman's right to the
ballot. The right of petition is woman's
only recognized method of influencing leg-
islation; a million names to the 45th Con-
gress would have great moral influence up-
on Congress and the nation. The United
States already has three classes of voters,
the black man, naturalized male citizens,
and amnestied rebels; each of these has
right to the ballot under United States au-
thority. Though by decision of the Su-
preme Court, in case of Virginia L. Minor,
of Missouri, all women were remanded to
the States, yet as the National Government
had power to invest with the ballot in the
above instances, it has like power to en-
franchise woman.
	"Let us therefore meet and discuss the
best methods of attaining this great object."
	The circular is signed by Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Ch. Ex. Com., and the information is
respectfully given also that all contributions
to this convention should be sent to Ellen
C. Sargent, 1733 De Sales St., Washington,
D. C. Letters should be addressed to Mrs.
Gage, Fayetteville, N. Y.


FLOWERS.

	THAT time is wasted which is not used
to the best advantage.
	NATURE is the art of God.—Sir Thomas
Browne.
	CONSCIENCE is an upright judge but not a
law.—Whateley.
	THERE are words which are worth as
much as the best actions, for they contain
the germ of them all.—Mme. Swetchine.
	PERSONS of extended views—Panorama
painters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting
which convenes semi-monthly in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms was crowded
to overflowing on Sat. April 28. President
Mrs. M. I. Horne made some remarks up-
on labor and its reward; the return of the
brethren and sisters from the Temple, and
the subject of Storing Grain. Said that as
war was now declared on the Eastern conti-
nent the sisters could see the wisdom
of this mission; thought the sisters ought
to do all in their power to be wise virgins.
Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff said she re-
joiced to to be with the sisters again, but
greatly enjoyed her visit to the Temple and
with the settlements on the journey. Said
the people south were united and were will-
ing to devote themselves to the kingdom
of God. Mrs. Margaret P. Young referred
to the pure enjoyment she had in the Tem-
ple, and the good influence which seemed
to pervade its surroundings and associations,
and the gratitude and thankfulness she felt
at all times in reflecting upon her visit.
Counselor Mrs. E. Howard, said she felt
the spirit of God poured out upon the hand-
maidens of the Lord; thought it was time
the sisters stopped depending upon Baby-
lon, and should make more sacrifices to-
wards building Temples. She felt it was
necessary to retrench from everything
impure and foolish and prepare our hearts
to enter the Temple of God. Mrs. Martha
B. Young made an earnest exhortation to
the sisters; Mrs. Higgs and Mrs. East testi-
fied to the spirit of God that was manifest.
Mrs. East particularly exhorted the sisters
to offer up their sacrifices to God, and lay
all upon the altar, that they might secure
the great reward promised and not fall
short.
		SPANISH FORK, Apr. 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The second annual reunion of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Association of this
place was held in the City Hall on Monday,
Apr. 2nd. The exercises commenced at 2
o'clock p. m., by singing and prayer.
Speeches, songs, recitations and original
compositions, together with the reading of
the Annual Review by the editor Miss Alice
Jex; interspersed with sweet strains of mu-
sic by Messrs. Thomas Hitchens, John Mor-
rison, and Miss Emma Isaacs; constituted
the afternoon's entertainment.
	Bishop Geo. D. Snell expressed his pleas-
ure at seeing so many present; spoke of the
advantages to be derived from our Annual
Review; as it enabled us to see the progress
made in the year past: spoke of the necessi-
ty of union and adherence to the rules and
regulations of the society: exhorted the sis-
ters to make their own fashions, and not
follow those of the world.
	Mrs. M. J. Morrison's remarks were full
of kindly feeling and expressions of the
pleasure she felt in having the opportunity
of doing good, and hoped to be able to hon-
or the mission assigned her as president of
the association; she also bore a strong tes-
timony to the healing power which she had
seen made manifest in a recent experience;
spoke of the changes that had taken place
in the society since their last reunion. She
concluded by expressing her desire that as
a society they might be more in earnest in
doing the will of our Heavenly Father, that
they might more fully enjoy His blessings.
	Miss Jane Powel spoke upon the subject
of charity, hoped the sisters would culti-
vate it in their daily lives. Bro. Geo. H.
Brimhall, Prest. of the Y, M. M. I. A.,

[Column 2]
made a short address; he was much pleased
to see the energy and diligence displayed
by the sisters.
	Bishop Snell presented the following offi-
cers for the ensuing year. President, Mrs.
M. J. Morrison; Counselors, Misses M. J.
Thomas, Maria Finch, Elizabeth Martell,
Mary Beckstrom, Clara Conrad—Miss
Jane Robertson was accepted as counselor
in the place of Mrs. Jane Reese, who re-
signed on account of ill health. Superin-
tendent Mrs. Jane Powell; Treasurer, Miss
Jane Robertson; Secretary, Miss Hannah
Snell; Ass't. Secretaries, Misses S. Warren
and Emma Evans; Corresponding Sec'y.,
Mrs. Hannah Cornaby; all of whom were
unanimously sustained.
	Intermission for one hour, during which
time about one hundred and fifty persons
sat down to tables bountifully spread with
picnic which was very tastefully arrang-
ed by a committee previously appointed.
The evening exercises were of the same
character as those of the afternoon. Bish-
op Snell, in connection with other brethren,
blessed and set apart the officers of the so-
ciety after which each officer was called up-
on to express their feelings and they all
expressed their willingness to perform the
various duties assigned them to the best of
their ability.
	The Treasurer read the financial report for
the two past years which showed that the
sum of fifty-seven dollars and forty cents
had been collected, and a disbursement of
forty dollars and fifteen cents, leaving a
balance in hand of seventeen dollars and
twenty-five cents. A five cent Temple
fund, donations received weekly, is in suc-
cessful operation in the association to which
the members contribute. A library has al-
so been started to which books are added
by donation and purchase.
	The second anniversary of the Society
was a time of real pleasure, and ended with
expressions of mutual good feeling and a
determination in the future to be more
zealous of good works.
				HANNAH CORNABY,
							Cor. Sec'y.

			WALLSBURG, Apr. 18, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy President, I
take the privilege of writing a few lines to
let you know how our society is getting
along in this little place; we hold our meet-
ings twice a month and a spirit of peace
and union prevails in our meetings; our
society is small compared with many oth-
ers, about forty members in all; the sisters
feel to be united with other sisters in carry-
ing out the counsel of President Young;
our place is small, and our means limited,
but we intend to do all we can in STORING
GRAIN, and have about forty bushels safely
stored.

		BEAVER CITY, March 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	We have had quite a spiritual feast of
late listening to the teachings of the breth-
ren and sisters that were on their way to
the General Conference at St. George. The
company of the Twelve Apostles held two
days meeting here which was highly ap-
preciated by the saints of Beaver and other
adjoining settlements. On the first even-
ing after their arrival Elder Joseph F.
Smith gave a very interesting lecture to
the Young Gentlemen and Ladies Associa-
tion, on the rise and progress of the Mor-
mon Church. The following evening Mrs.
Zina D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff and

[Column 3]
others addressed us, gave much valuable
instruction concerning our temporal as well
as our spiritual welfare; urging us as a com-
munity to be self-sustaining and patronize
home manufactures; they also gave excel-
lent advice to the young; in fact all the
meetings were good and interesting and we
felt to thank the brethren and sisters for
their many valuable instructions.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
I remain your sister,
						M. J. Shipp,
							Ass't. Sec'y.
	I also send you the Petition of the ladies
of Beaver, which were three hundred in
number, for publication if you feel so dis-
posed.
	PETITION TO THE HONORABLE MAYOR
	AND CITY COUNCIL OF BEAVER CITY,
	UTAH TERRITORY.

	We the undersigned lady residents and
citizens of Beaver, beg respectfully to rep-
resent to your honorable body, that there
are seven liquor saloons in our city and that
the great amount of spiritous liquors sold
has a demoralizing effect upon the youth of
our community. We consider intemperance
the bane of crime in all civilized countries
where the sale of liquor is not kept under
proper control or prohibited altogether.
The latter we would fain ask at your hand,
but understanding as we do, that the late
Governor Woods refused to sign the amend-
ment to our City Charter with the power
to prohibit; we simply and humbly ask that
you restrain as far as practicable the bane-
ful demoralizing traffic, and raise the li-
cense fee to a figure that will only make
it profitable for medicinal purposes. We
would also ask for the sake of our sons and
brothers that the ordinance forbidding to
sell to "minors under sixteen years of
age;" be made to read twenty-one years
of age; and that the police authorities
be instructed to see that the law is rigid-
ly enforced and give such other relief as
your honorable body deem for the best
good of the youth of our growing com-
munity, and as in duty bound your peti-
tioners will every pray.

			LAKE VIEW, Feb. 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a few words from our little
place, to let you know how we are getting
along with our meetings. We have com-
bined the Young Men's Meetings and our
Retrenchment Meetings together and the
young men take charge of the meetings
one Sunday night and the young ladies the
next; we all enjoy the spirit of the Lord,
all get up and bear a strong testimony to
the work of God, and the holy spirit rests
upon us in our meetings, and we all take
an active part in making them interesting
and we know that it is our duty to help
bear off the kingdom of God. How proud
our parents would be to have their sons and
daughters grow up to be mighty men and
women in the church of Jesus Christ; and
if we do not improve ourselves while we
have a chance we will have to endure the
consequences, for we will never have the
opportunity to come back and retrace our
footsteps, either before or after we pass
away from this earth. I never felt more
like doing good than I do at the present
time, and we trust that all the young men
and women may persevere in the good
cause.
					J. G. MARTIN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVER THE CHILD "ROSABELL."

Searching ways and haunts of childhood,
	Down its lanes, o'er meadows green,
Through the orchard, field und wildwood,
	For a wreath to crown my Queen.
Ling'ring fondly by the brooklet,
	Rippling through its mossy dell;
Culling flowers by its waters.
	To bedeck fair "Rosabell.

Emblem of a true affection,
	Breathing of a love sublime,
Reaching through the years eternal,
	Of a sinless, deathless clime.
In the dewy morn of childhood,
	Liveth ever, Rosabell"
Why she never merged from girlhood,
	There's no mortal tongue can tell.

There she lives a fairy creature,
	Bright and joyous as of yore,
Sunshine gilding every feature,
	Time can never reach her more.
Turning o'er historic pages
	Pressing back the weight of years,
All the agony of ages,
	Joys and sorrows, hopes and fears,

Sunny life of bud, and blooming,
	Like genil ruled by charmed ring,
Come to me with love's adorning,
	Voices from a far off spring.
Clear blue eyes to mine upturning,
	Rosy lips breathe loving words,
Fragrant as the air of Eden,
	Musical as song of birds.

Bud and bloom of nature's glory,
	Love-light twining "immortelle,"
Fairy tale and simple story,
	Crown the brow of "Rosabell."

Salt Lake City.
	Affectionately inscribed to E. B. W.
		By Sister LU.


[For the Exponent.
		A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	One hundred years have passed away
since our grandsires fought and bled, and
suffered almost every privation to assist in
establishing a Constitution which guaran-
teed unto all, "Liberty and Equal Rights"
—that all who wished might come and wor-
ship God according to the dictates of their
own consciences, and rest secure under
the Nation's broad escutcheon: Our fore-
fathers were filled with a heaven-born hope
that their children from generation to gen-
eration would appreciate and sustain these
inalienable rights bequeathed to them by
their Veteran Fathers.
	It was the spirit of God which inspired
Columbus to search out this contintent,—and
by the same spirit and power our forefath-
ers, although they may not have realized it,
fought and gained the victory, that a Free
Republic might be established and a land
and people prepared that God might again
reveal Himself to His children, and set up
His kingdom never more to be thrown
down.
 What has transpired in this short vista of
time. For a few years the people were
blessed and happy, although there were a few
wars and schisms, yet those who held the
reigns of government, and those who ad-
ministered the same with many others,
stood nobly and firmly for right regardless
of party or sect, and America was free and
blessed above all other nations.
	About the middle of the century the
Lord began to reveal the Gospel and to re-
store His Holy Priesthood again to man.
Then Satan began to stir up the people to
persecute those who believed in direct rev-
elation from God revealed through Joseph
Smith, the prophet whom God raised up in
this the last dispensation to restore the Gos-
pel taught by Jesus and the Apostles, and
also by the ancient prophets; these prophets
when speaking of the corruption of Baby-
lon in the last days, said, "Come out of her,
Oh! my people that ye partake not of her
plagues," and that a people should gather
from every nation under heaven to a land
prepared for them.  When these things be-
gan to come to pass, prejudice sprung up 
among those who administered the laws of 
the land and they disregarded the claims of 
justice; and it was not long before mobs
combined here at home, in our boasted land
of liberty to destroy the Saints of God.
The thought makes the blood of old '76,
that runs through my veins, boil with in-
dignation and shame, that I, a child of the 
Republic with many others whose grand-
sires had fought and died to bequeath to 
their children rights and a law to protect
them in their religious views and the exer-
cise of religious liberty, were compelled at
the point of the bayonet to walk barefooted
through the crusted snow, cruelly cutting
our feet, so much so, that the path made by
us was a trail of blood.  Ah! methinks if 
the fathers of our glorious Republic and 
framers of the Constitution could have
viewed the scene, their very ashes which
have lain mouldering for years must have
been stirred in their graves.  Not only did 
this great wrong exist among the minor
officers and administrators of the laws
of the land, but those who stood at 
the head of the nation were embittered
with the same prejudices.  When the saints
appealed for justice and redress, to Presi-
dent Van Buren--his reply was "Gentle-
men your cause is just but I can do nothing
for you."  Well might liberty blush and re-
tire to the mountains, and justice hang its
head in shame, because there was no Exec-
utor; and thus were the Saints driven from
city to city and from state, to state and in-
to the Great Americcan Desert which has 
indeed been made "to blossom as the rose."
Still have our enemies continued to send
their shafts of venom after us.  They think
themselves better provided with a pretext
than our former persecutors were, for they
have now a great HOBBY HORSE on which to 
ride called "polygamy," and one after an-
other of their immaculate politicians ride
to Congress with a bill to be passed against
the Mormons.  But strange to say ever
one who has gone with this HOBBY HORSE
gets worsted and are politically killed.  This 
is in fulfilment of a portion of Scripture.
The Lord says in speaking of the enemies
of His people that He will "put a hook in 
their jaws."
They do not realize the hand of God but 
walk in darkness, the blind leading the 
blind, and corruption and bribery prevail in 
high places, seeking to deprive people of 
the rights guaranteed by our beloved Con-
stitution.
Oh! how my soul is pained when I see
the rights and privileges of citizenship
trampled upon, and changed to suit the ca-
price of men who would sell themselves
and the liberties of their fellow-beings for 
money and for office.  Stooping to become
partizans regardless of the oaths they have
taken pledging themselves before high
heaven and all men to maintain inviolate
the Constitution and its relations to the 
rights of the people, whose cause they re-
resent.
In their zeal to do away with the system
of polygamy they seem confused in their 
plans some proposing one plan and some
another.  I would say to you gentlemen
this is because you do not understand what 
you are dealing with; hundreds and thou-
sands of your predecessors have been in the 
same sad dilemma; because as phyicians are
sometimes puzzled so are you to understand
the nature of the object you are contend-
ing against.  Grant, in his version of it, calls
it a twin relic of barbarism, or a loathsome
ulcer and like a quack Doctor, has been ex-
perimenting during his presidential career,
but has neither killed or checked its growth.
To be continued.


SILK CULTURE.

	As the time is fast approaching to begin
raising the silk worm, I am daily interroga-
ted, "How shall we proceed in silk raising?"
For the benefit of those wishing to engage
in the business, I will make a few remarks
in regard to it, founded on my own experi-
ence,which has heretofore proved success-
ful.
	In the first place we must be alive to our
business. Now the first thing to be done is
to secure silk worm eggs before the weath-
er gets too warm, to avoid them hatching,
and before the leaves are far enough ad-
vanced to begin feeding. In order to avoid
their hatching, place them in a cool dry
place or cellar, if not damp, in a box of any
kind, to preserve them from the mice,
with a goodly portion of gimlet holes bored
in the ends and sides to admit of the circu-
lation of air, there to remain until wanted
to hatch. From the first to the 15th of June
bring the eggs from your cool repository,
and spread them upon a newspaper upon a
table. Leave them in a cool room. It is
best not to expose them too suddenly to
warmth that would hatch them. Leave
them in a cool room a day or two, then take
them to a warmer room, and spread on a
table as before. In a few days they will
begin to hatch. They commence early in
the morning and continue hatching until
near noon.
	Now your labor commences. As soon as
they hatch, they start off in search of food.
Pluck your tenderest leaves, about the size
of a quarter of a dollar, leaving the tip end
and one small leaf. Cut the leaves in halves,
lay them on the worms, where they are the
thickest. When they are all on the leaf, if
it is not full of worms, place it in another
spot, and so on until the leaves are full.
Have another paper near the one you have
your eggs upon. Then take a pen-knife,
and take hold of the edge of the leaf full of
little worms, placing them on the paper
you previously laid on the table, taking
them up one by one as they fill up, lay them
side by side, until all that day's hatching
are taken care of. Now gather some ten-
der leaves, laying one on the top of anoth-
er, say from five to one dozen, according to
the number of worms. Lay them on a
board and cut them with a sharp knife,
about an eighth of an inch wide, and cross-
ways the same. Then sprinkle them light-
ly over the young worms; be careful not to
put on too many, as the worms will attack
the first leaf they come in contact with.
If there is more than enough for them the
top leaves will wilt, and dry up before the
worms can get to the top. Repeat this op-
eration every two hours. If the worms do
not come up it is a sure sign that they
have had too much feed, and are unable to
get up. Then you must feed lighter. Ov-
er-feeding is a great fault in the first stage
and must be avoided. Continue in this
way each day during hatching, taking care
to keep each day's hatching by themselves.
	Any person wishing silk-worm eggs can
be accommodated by addressing the under-
signed.
	MRS. ANN K. DUNYON,
		Draperville, Salt Lake Co.
—Deseret News, May 1st, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS. } Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

 Publishcd semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
 Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake Cily, Utah. 
		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

ASSOCIATIONS OF NATURE, HER
WAYS OF PLEASANTNESS.

	Spring has come again with its buds and
blossoms speaking to the heart in hopeful
promise, and revealing as it were, truthful les-
sons of the Infinite. The glad waters have
burst their ice-bound fetters, and as they flow
freely along, one fancies they babble of the
prison-lfe in which cold stern winter had en-
thralled them. The glorious sunshine regener-
ates everything which it rests upon; not only
producing vegetable life and bringing forth in 
profusion everywhere, grasses and flowers, leaf
and shrubbery, but the human body receiving
a portion of its penetrating and invigorating
rays, is imbued with freshness, elasticity and
vigor. The birds returning again from their
southern tour are caroling sweet melodies, as
if their anthems of praise were uttered for all
animate creation. Thoughts and anticipations
come with the spring-time in rich profusion
too. Many writers have indulged in ridiculing
the various odes, poems, compositions and es-
says upon Spring; but the mind bubbles over
with its effusions at this season of the year be-
cause of its kinship to all animate nature; and
feeling that the season is one propitious in the
effervescing of ideas congenial and conducive to
their rhythm, it is but natural to dedicate to 
this Goddess of Spring suitable tributes in hon-
or of her life-giving power and strength.
	She is also the herald of Summer with its
wealth of beauty and ways of pleasantness; its
long bright days, its gorgeous sunsets draping
the mountain-slopes with their reflection in 
pale purple and blue, shimmering leaf and
flower and tree top with blended golden green.
Must not all this beauty have its effect upon
the senses? Bringing always its own peculiar
train of pleasant associations in the mind, dif-
fused with light and warmth and vigor, im-
parted by the outward presence of the truly
natural and beautiful, acting upon the suscep-
tible imagination. Plans for useful labor for
pastime and out-door enjoyments begin to
be formed, and contrast with similar scenes
and episodes in the past. Involuntarily mem-
ory calls up what last season afforded of pleas-
ure and joy, and the experience it brought, of 
how best to economize all things to make cap-
ital out of the smallest resources for enjoy-
ment.
	To us the Spring brings many pleasing re-
membrances, many happy remnisicences of
days gushing over with the enthusiasm of love
for nature's wildest haunts, its dreamiest
nooks, its most enchanting imagery. All these
are ways of pleasantness, and if the spirit of
content be strong in one, the way to be good is
so plain and old-fashioned that everybody
knows it, therefore it is not entertaining. If

[Column 2]

all that the cleverest geniuses have written
against the world in general were combined,
the volume would be too massive and ponderous
for use, but there is a vast amount of beauty
in the world, even in nature's world, and no-
ble hearts and noble actions and youth and
hope are all around us. Youth is fleeting but
hope is a permanent and reliable characteristic
and one which leads us always in pleasant
ways, lights up the darkness of the mind, cast-
ing back the shadows that have fallen in one's
path and helping one to rise supreme over
trifles and doubts on the journey of life. Hope
is the companion and twin sister of faith, that
faith which is rich in wisdom and help to all
weary toilers in this “work-a-day world."
There is no person so perfect but they need
strength from all available sources, and if one
can drink in true inspiration from without, it
may help to solve doubtful questions, and en-
courage to lives of usefulness by opening new
avenues of thought and feeling. One very im-
portant requisite on all occasions is good na-
ture; it is good for holidays and it is good to 
have a large stock for every-day use. Good
nature pays, and it costs something too, for it
needs constant cultivation of the soil of the
heart, and if all persons are not capable of 
great achievements they may possess them-
selves of this attribute which will yield them
happiness in bountiful proportion to the seed
sown. Good nature is a virtue, for it is the
best nurturer of kind feelings. Constant brav-
ery in all little trials and crosses, thankfulness
for all favors, and such culture of heart as can
endure the hardest lessons of life without mur-
muring are worth the attention of all who as-
pire to genuine goodness.
	If to good nature one adds the desire to please
others and do good to those who need help or
kind attention, then indeed will it lead to ways
of pleasantness; and whatever changes come,
like to Mrs. Hannah More's "Shepherd of Sal-
isbury Plain," sunshine will bring beauty, and
clouds the fatness of the earth." Every day
will be a holiday then and all seasons will pro-
duce their relative pleasures. This would
make true philosophers of men and women and
add materially to human happiness in the ag-
gregate.
	One cannot but feel impressed with the idea
that this beautiful world, so full of everything
to gladden the eye and give zest to earth-life,
was not formed and created with so much care
and wisdom and manifest forethought, for poor
mortals to grumble at as they partake of its
life giving elements and bask in the sunlight
of the countenance of heaven.
	E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	DIED: In Centerville, Davis County, Jan.
21,1877, of dropsy, Eliza, wife of Joseph Hon- 
css.
 Deceased was born in the year 1803, in the
Parish of Newington, County of Kent, Eng-
land. Received the Gospel in 1842, and re-
mained in full faith until her death. During
her lingering illness she manifested that pa-
tience, and implicit faith in a Divine Power, 
which characterized her whole life. She leaves
a husband and family of children, and a large
circle of friends to mourn her loss.

	DIED: At Harrisville, of small pox, Ja. 17,
1877; Sarah Jane, daughter of John M., and
Louisa A. Brown, and wife of S. F. Wilson;
born in Ogden City Utah; May 26, 1855. De-
ceased was born in the church of Jesus Christ
of Latter day Saints; was baptized when eight
years old; she was married to S. F. Wilson 
Dec. 12, 1870, and was appointed teacher of the 
Relief Society in the summer of 1871, which
position she filled in a praiseworthy manner.
She was esteemed by all who knew her; was
kind and benevolent to the sick arid poor and
friendly to all.
	She leaves her husband, three children,
mother, brothers and sisters to mourn her de-
parture, and who feel the loss of an affection-
ate daughter, wife, mother and sister. She
lived a virtuous and honest life, and died in
peace as if going to sleep, and in the faith
and hope of a glorious resurrecteon. For she
had a testimony that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet, for herself and not doubling, for she
saw him in a vision.
							COM.

	DIED: In Farmington, April 20, 1877, after
a short illness, Mrs. Lucy Robinson, wife of
Oliver L. Robinson, (now on a mission to the
States,) and daughter of Henry W. and Elvira
Miller of St. George.
	Mrs. Robinson was forty years of age and
the mother of eleven children, nine of whom
are now living; she had filled with dignity the
office of teacher in the Relief Society for a
number of years; and had proved herself
worthy of example in polygamy. We know
she is now better off, yet cannot but feel the
loss of her society.
	In Farmington, March 24, 1877, Lemira Mc-
Bride also departed this life, after having lived
to a good old age, nearly completing her eighty-
fourth year. Her friends felt more like rejoic-
ing than mourning at her death as she had
filled up her days in usefulness and with honor,
and for some time she had prayed that the
change might lake place. She was one of the
first settlers of Farmington. and died as she
had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
							COM.
	IN CONSEQUENCE of the two-days meeting
held May 12th and 13th, the General Retrench-
ment Meeting in the Fourteenth Ward which
would have convened on the 12th was post-
poned until the next regular meeting day, Sat-
urday, May 23th, when it is hoped the sisters
will assemble with renewed ardor and spiritual
strength. 

	THIS PRESENT number completes the fifth
volume of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We fully
intended making some change in the size and
appearance of the paper which we most hearti-
ly desire to do, but are entirely unable at pres-
ent, unless subscriptions come in more quickly
than we have any reason to anticipate, judging
from the delinquencies of the past year. The
women of Utah certainly should sustain
their own paper, and if they do not, they de-
serve to be misrepresented by their enemies
abroad. The power is in their own hands to
represent themselves in a way that cannot be
misunderstood. The paper is now having a
wide circulation and the world already begin
to see that Mormon women have an opportu-
nity to express their views on all subjects of
universal interest.

	[The following paragraph is part of a letter
written from Logan to one of our sisters.]

	*It perhaps will be of interest to you to
hear from our Society which was reorganized
in Dec. last, by yourself and others. I am
happy to state that there has been a disposition
manifested among the young ladies to seek
more after the things pertaining to the
kingdom of God since than befere. We now
have enrolled the names of one hundred and
eleven members. 	Our desires are to be
more energetic in the future than we have
been in the past, and assist in the great work


which is before us. * Praying God to bless
all who are interested in Zion etc.
	Such reports as this and similar ones coming
from all parts of the Territory are significant
of the future which is just unfolding, when
woman will be qualified through her own faith-
fulness and good works to do her share and do
it well, in the great events which are about to
transpire in the last days.
	THIS IS the season for all those interested
in the silk culture to commence, if they have
not already, making preparations to carry out
the vote of the conference on that speciality.
It is very generally believed that silk manufac-
ture will yet be a source of wealth to this com-
munity. If the sisters will only take hold of
this branch of business as they are capable of
doing it will be sure to succeed. Industry and
perseverance, with the skill Utah is competent
to furnish, having ingenious workmen from
foreign countries thoroughly trained in many
of these departments of labor, will accomplish
in a few years that which may now seem to
many utterly impossible. Who would have
anticipated a silk dress pattern being made
here without machinery, beside silk laces cost-
ly and magnificent, fit to add to the ward-
robe of a queen. Yet these things have been
done and many more. It has been prophesied
and this people profess to believe it, that in
Zion there should be the finest productions of
workmanship, and the nations should come up
to learn of these fine arts. There must be a
beginning, and it is surely time now for the
commencement if we expect to fulfill it.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met pursuant to adjournment, Friday,
May 4th, at the Fireman’s Hall, Mrs. Horne
presiding.
	Mrs. Horne said she was well satisfied with
the success of the Association. Was pleased to
see so many present, a proof that we were pro-
gressing, and we had no need to doubt any
longer that silk could be raised and manufac-
tured here, as the evidence was before us. She
referred to the silk dress which had been
raised, reeled, and twisted by Sister Nancy A.
Clark, of Farmington, and woven by Mr. Jo-
seph Hatfield, of the same place. The people
used to laugh and make sport at the idea of
raising and manufacturing silk in Utah, but
that time was past.
	Mrs. Barney said she was well repaid for all
she had done; was pleased to see the interest
that was being manifested to make the enter-
prise a success, which at the present time had
a good foundation. It only needed a building
to make this one of the greatest sources of
wealth to this community.
	Mr. George Pyper said that he had been
very successful in raising silk worms, and
thought it best not to change the f[-]ed by giv-
ing them wet leaves one day and dry the next,
but to adopt one plan or the other and keep
to it.
	The meeting was also addressed by Mrs.
Snyder, Mrs. Hardy and others.
	Adjourned until the first Friday in June.
		R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WISHES AND SUGGESTIONS.

	While sauntering about the lot this morn-
ing, I was led to wish that bee keepers would
have the good taste and good judgment, not to
try the experiment of domesticating their bees
in so close proximity to neighbors that orch-
ards, gardens, and houses must be infested
with them.
	Few persons are more fond of honey than

[Column 2]

myself; but I would prefer to have it extracted
from fields of buckwheat raised for put-
pose, rather than from my pears, peaches, ap-
ples, &c., while they are in blossom.
	I know that honey bees are always held up
as patterns of industry; but as for politeness
and honesty, they are imbued with these about
as much as a cross cow might be, when left
to walk through the street and pick her living
where she can find it.
	One day last summer when we were sitting
down to dinner, several of these useful little
plagues entered the open window; and with-
out waiting to see whether we would offer
them an invitation to dine with us or not, they
seated themselves comfortably upon the edge
of a dish of honey in the middle of the table.
When they began sipping daintily from my
favorite dish, I raised an objection and tried to
make them understand that their company
was not desired in our house. They refused to
comprehend, or at least to comply with my
wish for them to leave. So my husband inter-
feared, and finally succeeded in driving the
little marauders out through the same window
they had entered; but not until he had receiv-
ed a slight wound from one of their weapons
of defense, and broken a pane of glass. That
meal was by no means the only one which
was made uncomfortable for us, by the inva-
sions of our neighbors' saucy bees.
	It seems to me that a very good plan would
be to have an apiary conducted far enough
away from town to warrant security from mo-
lestation by the bees, to the inhabitants in
general of the city; and extensive enough to
supply this honey-loving community with the
delicate sweet.
	The roses will soon be blooming in abund-
ance. I wish that mothers would teach their
children that although it is not so dishonest to
beg as to steal, it is almost as contemptible.
It is trying to get something without earning
it or paying for it, and is a practice that child-
ren should be taught to abhor. What woman
could be willing to leave her work twenty
times a day to answer the summons from some-
body's child that she knows nothing about,
"Please ma'am will you give me a rose?" And
if without going to wait upon them, you ans-
wer, "you may take one," almost any of these
little rose beggers will fill hats, aprons or what-
ever will carry them, with the most choice
roses and buds they can find on your bushes.
	Children should be taught, that people who
have fine roses and flower gardens have to
work hard to take care of them, or pay garden-
ers for doing so. And that if they have flow-
ers to give away, they most likely have dear
friends to whom they prefer giving them.
	Watching and listening to the happy birds
that came with the joyous spring, reminds me
of a chapter I once read from a book written
by an old and wise man. I never think of it
without also thinking, it is a chapter which
very many young men would do well to read
and heed. A portion of it is as follows:
	"Husbands and fathers do stop your drive,
drive, hurry, hurry; long enough to do your
duty to your wives and children! Pattern af-
ter those dear little birds. They have built
themselves a pretty home, and the female is
filling it with eggs. How many charming lit-
tle attentions her consort lavishes upon her!
How completely devoted and exquisitely ten-
der! Thereby he renders her all happiness,
and sweetness, and this stamps the impress of
loveliness upon her embryo eggs. How sweet-
ly he warbles in surrounding branches; thus
charming away her tedious hours, and making
her happy by notes of love."
	If the lesson given in these few words, could

[Column 3]

only be learned and its importance realized by
all our young husbands and fathers, what a no-
ble generation might be reared up by the sons
and daughters of Israel!
	MABEL.


SPECIAL CONFERENCE.

		  TWO DAYS MEETING.

	On Saturday and Sunday, May 12th and 13th
a Special Conference of the people belonging
to this Stake of Zion commenced in the New
Tabernacle. There were on the stand, the
First Presidency, Brigham Young, John W.
Young, and Daniel H. Wells. Of the Quorum
of the Twelve Apostles there were seven, the
Patriarch of the Church, John Smith, Presid-
ing Bishop, Edward Hunter, some of the Presi-
dents of Seventies, and of the Quorum of the
High Priesthood and the Presidency of this
Stake of Zion, with many resident Bishops and
Elders of the Church from different parts of
the Territory.
	Prest. Young called the congregation to or-
der, Saturday morning at ten o'clock. Pre-
sident John W. Young offered up the opening
prayer. During this Conference, the people
have been exhorted most earnestly to live their
religion more faithfully and devote their time
and energies to the building up of the kingdom
of God upon the earth.
	President Brigham Young has preached con-
siderable during the Conference on all practical
subjects pertaining to the interests and welfare
of Zion, entreating the people to keep the Sab-
bath day holy, and to observe the covenants
they have entered into. Some missionaries
have been called, mostly to Arizona.


ABOUT THE "LITERATI."

	"The Story of Galileo;" this book which
has just been published in Rome contains
much matter of interest, from the research-
es of Prof. Dominico Berti, who studied in
the Vatican, and throws new light upon
the subject. The original papers are now
published for the first time. Their history
is peculiar. Napoleon once ordered them
to be printed but for some reason it was 
never done. The original documents are 
said to be contained in a book with a faded
green cover. One proof of their authentic-
ity is they agree with Galileo's letters, with
the facts of his life, and with other docu-
ments which have been discovered, and
with the copies made in the register of the
holy office at Rome. Galileo after the publi-
cation of his first book the "Munzio Sider-
io," in 1610, went to Rome with the desire
to have his studies sanctioned by the priests
and Collegio Romans. His recent discov-
eries of the telescope and the sattelites of
Jupiter won so much admiration from the
greatest men in power that it attracted the
attention of the Inquisition. Cardinal Bal-
larmino commenced a persecution against
him, saying his doctrines were opposed to 
Scripture. The secret myrmidons of the
Inquisition were ever on his track, and in
1616 at his first trial by the Inquisition he
was forbidden to write or speak further on
those subjects. Cardinal Ballarmino ad-
monished him to abandon his opinions.
The history adds "never was command
more arbitrary and more absolute. Galieo
promised to obey but the sources of his in-
tellectual life were closed for seventeen
years; at the end of that period he was
brought again before the Inquisition. After
this he seemed unable to restrain himself
from telling the truths which tormented
him and began again to publish the re-
sults of his studies. Galileo was threatened
with torture, and the decree for his execu-
tion now exists.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	CLIFTON, IDAHO TER., Apr. 21, '77

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I would like to ask the sisters if they re-
alize what our missions are here on the
earth. We come here to receive our earth-
ly tabernacles, to gain an experience and
to die. Is this all? No, it is not. We come
here to improve ourselves and to do all the
good we can and just as little harm as possi-
ble. We should be honest and truthful and
teach of our children the same principles, also
teach them to observe the Sabbath, to rev-
erence God the giver of all good and per-
fect gifts; and that it is THEIR duty as well
as ours to bow before our heavenly Father
and thank Him for His loving kindness to-
wards us; again, here is a lesson or all.
We should not wait till the hour of adver-
sity and sorrow comes, before we pray; but
we should pray at all times, so that in the
time of need we may have claim upon His
mercy and blessings. We are all weak and 
erring mortals, but by doing the best we
can according to our knowledge, by help-
ing one another and doing good to all; we 
may overcome many of the frailties natu-
ral to human natures.
	 We have a Relief Society here number-
ing thiry-five or forty members, who are 
willing to do all they can towards Storing
Grain, and helping the poor and needy. 
	There are a few of your papers taken in
this place, and I am convinced that a much
greater good would be accomplished if
they were taken by every family.
	We have a Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Society, which seems to do
much good and promote the growth of in-
telligence and happiness among the young.
	I will close for the present as I am writ-
ing with a babe in my arms. My wishes
are that the Women's Societies may in-
crease in numbers, knowledge and wisdom. 
					Yours Truly,
								K. E. D.

	BLOOMINGTON, BEAR LAKE CO.,
						March 20, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	I take this opportunity of communicat-
ing a few of my thoughts to you and in-
form the sisters how we are getting along
in this little branch of the Lord's Vineyard.
The Relief and Retrenchment Societies
are doing well; the former meets twice a 
month and are abundantly blessed; we en-
gage in singing and prayer and conversing 
upon the pure principles of the Gospel that 
are calculated to exalt all those who are
humble and obedient enough to receive
them. We read the EXPONENT in our 
meetings which is truly interesting and ed-
ifying; we have not done a great deal in
the Grain Movement because the grain was
not plentiful last year on account of the
early frosts, but the sisters of our Society
feel to respond to all the requirements of 
those in authority over them and to carry
out the counsel of President Young in
storing grain and in the building of Tem-
ples; and feel to do all they can in their
humble way to build up the kingdom of
God upon the earth. The young ladies in
their Association are doing well, and they
ever manifest a willingness to assist in the
good cause. There is also a Young Men's 
Mutual Improvement Association which is
prospering, and they have the earnest pray-
er of every thinking mother, that they may
awaken our youth to a sense of the impor-
tance of their work in these the last days.

[Column 2]
	We were called to mourn the death of
Mrs. Margery Bateman on the 17 of Feb., of
child birth. Deceased was born Nov. 20,
1855; came to this country in 1874. She
lived and died a full believer in the Gospel 
of Jesus Christ; she attended to all the or-
dinances which will ensure her eternal life;
and in the morning of the resurrection we
hope to meet our beloved and enjoy her so-
ciety through an endless eternity. "She is
not dead but sleepeth."
							M. A. J.

				GOSHEN, April 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	I thank you very much for your kindness 
in taking an interest in the young ladies in
this place, and for your good advice and 
counsel, and I hope that I will profit by it.
I did not desire to hold the position of 
President of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association, for I felt I was not capa-
ble of magnifying the office; but the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society and others, tried
to encourage and assist all in their power,
and were very diligent in trying to get
the young ladies organized, and they helped
us in every way possible after we were or-
ganized. We are not very many in num-
ber in our society, for our settlement is but
a small place and we have not many young
ladies here, but the majority of them have
joined the association and try to do all they
can to assist in rolling on the great and
glorious work we are engaged in. We
meet together twice a month, also take the 
EXPONENT and find it a great benefit to us;
it is always laden with good counsel which 
we read along with selections from the 
Church books in our meetings. We also 
converse with one another and strive to 
make the meetings as interesting as possi-
ble. The sisters of the Relief Society visit
us occasionally to instruct us. We edit a 
paper to read in our meetings and have
some very good compositions in it.
	I hope you will be blest in your undertak-
ing, for it is a noble one and will result in
good. The EXPONENT is a great credit to
the editors, and a great blessing to the wo-
men of Utah.
	That the Lord may bless all who are try-
ing to build up the kingdom of God is the
earnest prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
				HATTIE J. HIGGINGSON.

	26 TENBY STREET, BIRMINGHAM,
				ENGLAND, April 3, 1877.
	To Mrs. Mary Meiklejohn, President, and 
the officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety of Tooele City.

DEAR SISTERS:
	Feelings assured that a few lines from us
would be acceptable to you, and feeling in-
terested in every good organization or en-
terprise calculated to benefit or increase the 
happiness of the saints in Tooele, although
a distance of over six thousand miles inter-
venes between us, yet the memories of
past associations are ever with us, and give
us pleasure in our reflections, and it is very
happifying to us as we hear occasionally of
your progress, and the success attending
your labors in assisting to erect a suitable
hall for the benefit of your society, and to
enable the young, and others who are fond
of amusement to procure the same under
proper management, namely, the Holy
Priesthood. We know that the Relief So-
ciety is a great help in government having
seen your good acts in administering to
the sick and otherwise in times past, and

[Column 3]
when we hear of the grand mission assign-
ed the Relief Societies, in STORING GRAIN
and their success in other places, the ques-
tion arises in our mind, how is it with
Tooele? But the answer to us, juding
from former acquaintance, that you are not
behind in any good work, and we pray that
God may bless you in your labors. We re-
alize tha the responsibilities of mothers
are great, who so well qualified to make
lasting impressions on the minds of the
youth, and to learn them to appreciate their
peaceful, happy homes, where they are far
removed from the wickedneess, vice and cor-
ruption which exist in this and other coun-
tries; this ought to suggest to us the neces-
sity of redoubling our diligence in throw-
ing a guard around our youth and direct
their [-]eet in the paths that will lead them
to eternal life which may God give you the
power to do.
	We should be very ahppy to hear from
you as a society, if you could make it con-
venient to write to us.
	Kind love to all, and may the God of
heaven bless you, and lal the faithful saints
is the prayer of your brethren,
					JOHN ROWBERRY,
					GEORGE ATKIN.


SYMPATHIES WITH CHILDREN

	Do you want to learn how to make the
children love you? Do you want the key
that will unlock the innermost recesses of
their nature? Then sympathaze with
them always. Never allow yourself to ridi-
cule any of their little secrets. Never say,
"Oh, pshaw!" when they come to show you
a new kite or marvelous top, and "I can't
be troubled!" when the hard knot won't be
untied, and two and two obstinately refuse to
make four on their little slates. Kites and
knots are only the precursors of older
thoughts and deeper trails, which the pa-
rents may one day plead to share.
	Don't laugh at any of a child's ideas, how-
ever odd or absurd they may seem to you;
let them find your sympathy ready in all
their wonderments and aspirations. The
little folks are too much crowded out in this
world; people generally seem to think they
can be put anywhere, or made to eat any-
thing, or crammed into any out-of-the-way
corner, to amuse themselves anyhow. We
don't agree with these cross-grained wise-
acres. It don't take much to make a child
love you and trust in you; and the benefits
to him are absolutely incalculable.
	Oh, how much better it is for children to
bring all their cares and troubles and temp-
tations under the gentle eye of a kind par-
ent! What a safeguard it is for them to
feel that there is always a kind ear to listen
to their doubts and griefs, and a gentle
shoulder for their little heads to nestle
against! Respect their rights; never think
you can say bitter things, in their presence,
or do unjust actions. They are the finest
discriminators of fair and unfair in the
world. Somebody says: "When you are
inclined to be cross with children for being
slow to learn, just try a moment to write with
the left hand. See how awkward it proves,
and then remember that with children it is
all left hand." Above all, do not be ashamed
to let them know that you love them. Re-
member they will be men and women some
day, and the slightest word which may in-
fluence their future lives should become a
thing of moment in our eyes.—Selected.


POPULAR prescription for a sick lady—A
new bonnet, a Cashmere shawl and a silk
dress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


STORING GRAIN

	FAIRFIELD, SEVIER Co., Apr. 5, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give some information
concerning the progress of our society; we
assure you the sisters of Fairfield are not
altogether dead, although so long unheard
from. We read with surprise the instruc-
tions when first given through the EXPO-
NENT for the Relief Societies to store up
Grain, and our hearts were filled with a
true desire to obey the call from the vener-
able leader of our church; it is a proof of
his confidence in the sisters, and we ought
to rise up in our might, yet with all humil-
ity to engage in this noble enterprise re-
membering that thereby we shall be able to
make restitution for past wrongs, for had
we as a general thing been obedient and
wise, much more could have been accom-
plished towards the building up of Zion.
The sisters here felt almost disheartened at
first, our ready means in the society was
very limited, our husbands had no grain,
they work faithfully in the United Order
for which we are thankful, yet we were not
satisfied, for here was another call; so we
concluded we would make an effort, trust-
ing in God for its success, and He has in-
deed heard our prayers and blessed our la-
bors, and we have now stored up about two
hundred bushels of wheat, and five hun-
dred pounds of flour and we keep adding
to it; at first we bought the wheat with
what little cash we had at seventy five cents
per bushel, and exchanged with oats, and
so on; some of the sisters donated of their
gleanings, or solicited their husbands for
donations of what little they had raised,
and in various ways added to our store.
Then we petitioned the Board of Directors
of the United Order, as our Society had
credit there to the amount of one hundred
and forty-one dollars, which was counten-
anced by our Bishop who acted very nobly
and kindly and used his influence in be-
half of the sisters; our petition was granted,
and the amount paid out to us in wheat, at
their own price. We feel very thankful
and trust in the Lord for continued success.
	Desiring the welfare of Zion, we are your
sisters in the Covenant.
	M. C. PETERSEN. Prest.
	F. ANDERSON, Sec'y.

	CEDAR FORT, Apr. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place have
been persevering in storing grain, we have
nearly one hundred bushels of wheat; the
Young Ladies Association donated gener-
ously towards it. Bishop Cook has kindly
loaned us a bin in the Tithing Office, until
we can get one of our own prepared, which
we intend doing as soon as possible:
	We have donated twenty-three dollars to-
wards our Temple, and a considerable sum
towards gathering the poor from other
lands. Although we are remote from the
presidency of the church still we are doing
all we can to be one with our sisters in
working for, and gaining inheritances in
Zion. We are not personally acquainted
with our sisters who preside in Salt Lake
City, yet we feel drawn towards them in
love, and good wishes for we are all striv-
ing for the same object, viz. a salvation in 
the kingdom of God.
	The EXPONENT is ever hailed with pleas-
ure as a counselor and friend; wishing it
success, I subscribe myself your sister in
the gospel,
	MALINDA COOK, Sec'y.


Mother
			____
"Hush my babe, lie still and slumber.
	Holy angels guard they bed:
Heavenly blessings, without number,
	Gently falling on they head." 
			____
 It is the cry of the infant just from the
cradle; it is the only balm that will heal the
Wounded heart in  youthful days.  "Mother,
I'm hurt!"  "Mother, I'm tired!"  "Mother,
sing to me!  Rock me - tell me stories."  It
is always "mother" with the child and lad;
no one like mother; no hand that falls on
the fevered brow as softly as hers; no words
so soothing as those that pass her lips; the
house would be a grave without her; life
would be a dreary, thorny road without her
warning voice and ever guiding hand.  A
father may be kind, may love not less,
but the wearied child wants the mother's
arms, her soft lullaby songs, the caresses of
her gentle hand.
 All childhood is a mixture of sunshine
and shadow.  A kind word brings a smile,
a harsh word a sigh.  The first footsteps,
weak and trembling, grow stronger by the
guidance of a mother's love.  The little
wounds, the torn clothes, the headaches and
heartaches, the trials all vanish at the
words of a mother; and there is a built up in
the heart of every man an edifice of love
and respect that no crime of his can over-
throw-no prison wall affect.
 And a lad grows to be a man only to find
that "mother" is the same.  If he errs, she
weeps; if he is good and manly, she re-
joices.  Hers is the only love that lasts--en-
dures forever.  The wolf of starvation may
enter the door, but her love is only tried to
shine the brighter.  All the world may call
her son a criminal, but the mother believes
it not.  Trials may beset you, storms gath-
er over you, vexations come, rum drag you
down; but there is one who ever stands
firm in your cause, who will never leave
you.  The criminal on the scaffold has suf-
fered in feeling because his bad deeds
would cause a pang in mother's heart. The
low and wretched, dying in some dark
abode of sin, have died with that dear and 
never to be forgotten name on their lips.
There is no praise like her praise, there are
no sad tears that pain us as much as
her.
 Thank God, then, reader, that we have
kind, loving, and affectionate mothers.
How pleasant it is in after life, to recall
those fond recollections when we used to
sit on her knee and hear her sing those
sweet, dear old songs so familiar to us all.
 Earthly things may pass away and be for-
gotten, but the good, all-embracing love of
mother will never be forgotten on earth or
in heaven.
				Frank Berry
Waverly Magazine.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Mother's Fruit Cake.—One cup of butter, two
cups of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, one cup
of sweet milk, one pound of chopped raisins, one
cup of currants, four eggs, one teaspoonful of sal-
eratus; two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, spice
as you like, and flour according to your judgment,
five cups being nearly right. This cake can be
kept well for six months.—Ex.
	Ginger Cookies.—Two cups sugar, two cups
molasses, two cups scant full of shortening, one 
cup hot water; one tablespoon saleratus, two table-
spoons ginger, one teaspoon alum, one teaspoon
salt—if there is none in the shortening; put half
of the water on the saleratus and half on the


alum. Roll them to a medium thickness and bake
a light-brown in a quick oven.
	Soft Hop Yeast.—Pare six medium-sized po-
tatoes and boil in two quarts of water; when they
are done nicely, put them in a pan and throw
over them a pint of flour—then mash together.
Tie a handful of hops in a cloth and boil about
twenty minutes in the water the potatoes were
cooked in; then take out the hops and pour the
water on the potatoes and flour. Stir well and
when nearly cool, stir in two good yeast cakes
which have been dissolved in a little warm water.
Keep warm till it is very light; then set in a cel-
lar, or some cool place where it will not freeze.
Bread can be made with this yeast much quicker
and better than if started with a yeast cake. One
teacupful is sufficient for three or four loaves.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The absence of employments which develop
strength of body and brain puts women at a dis-
advantage, and their indoor, artificial lives, with
breath-depriving dresses, rob many of the blush
of health before they are twenty. Many among
all classes, are ill from causes beyond their con-
trol; many others because they have lived without
regard to the conditions on which health depends.
Having the care of
	"A harp of thousand strings,"
they have, either inadvertently or carelessly
strained, mutilated, or broken so many strings,
that the music of life, instead of being harmoni-
ous and sweet, has become discordant and painful.
	Is there a remedy for all these ills? For some
there is; some cases are too far gone; some ves-
sels are unseaworthy; they have sound parts, but
so many timbers are rotten, and so many strained
and twisted, that the vessel does not admit of re-
pairs—it must be abandoned. So some bodies,
sound. enough in parts to last a hundred years,
have been so abused in others as to be beyond re-
pair. They must inevitably soon be cast upon the
wharf. Still, as it is said, "while there is life
there is hope." The human machine is self-re-
pairing, and wonderful power of self-repair does
it often show when given a chance. "The begin-
ning of wisdom" in the treatment of disease, is
the recognition of this self-healing tendency in the
human body. Illness uncaused does not come.
Every invalid should inquire: "Why am I ill?"
and, finding the cause should remove it. The
words of scripture contain a remedy for human
ills which is nearer a universal panacea than any
which chemists have discovered. It is this:
"Cease to do evil; learn to do well."


SPLINTER'S.

	Littell's Living Age; of Apr. 28, con-
tains a literary parallel of Daniel Deronda's
mother......The most precious diamond in
the world is said to be the "Pitt Diamond,"
it is now valued at $1,000,000......The "Kin-
tergarten" publishers, New York, have is-
sued a new work entitled "The Cyclopedia
of Education."


A WESTERN paper says: "Wanted at this
office an editor who can please everybody.
Also, a foreman who can so arrange the pa-
per as to allow every man's advertisement
to head the column."


A WOMAN hearing a great deal said of
preserved autumn leaves, tried the experi-
ment by putting up a few jars of them. Af-
ter a time she said to a neighbor she might
as well have thrown away the sugar, for she
was sure they never were going to be fit to 
eat.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.

			FAIRVIEW, SANPETE Co.,
						April 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having been edified and encouraged in
the performance of our labors through read-
ing correspondence from Relief Societies
published in your valuable paper, and hav-
ing, as we hope, a laudable desire to be
known as co-laborers in the good work
which the women of Utah are accomplish-
ing, allow us to state that our society hold
their meetings semi-monthly, with general
good attendance and a lively spirit of faith
and works, at which times we receive much
valuable instruction from our worthy presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary A. Prichett and others,
exhorting us to practice in our daily lives
the counsel given for the temporal and 
spiritual salvation of the saints; and al-
though we would not presume to compete
with the older and numericaly stronger so-
cieties, yet we feel justified in being some-
what proud of our labors; some of which at
the present time are as follows: The Sunday
Eggs, the general term applied in this sec-
tion, are reserved as a fund for the benefit
of the proposed Temple in Sanpete, in ad-
dition we are also making quilts to assist in
the same purpose. We have secured and 
safely deposited, for a beginning, some-
thing near a hundred bushels of wheat and
subscribed liberally for the publishing of
the book "Women of Mormondom," and
still our labors go on unremittingly. We
are also happy to inform you that the Re-
trenchment Association of this place is in
a prosperous condition, holding weekly
meetings with a firm resolve for improve-
ment; and while the self-righteous, the
prejudiced and wicked are unnecessarily
exercising their minds upon the Mormon
Question; still we go plodding along,
knowing in whom we trust, with the Mor-
mon creed "Mind your own business," free-
quently occurring to our minds. Accept
kindest regards. 
				Yours etc. 
				MARY J. HOWELL
						Ass't Sec'y.

				RICHMOND April 14, 1875.
EDITOR'S EXPONENT:
	We have not been heard through the col-
umns of your valuable paper before, yet we
feel pleased to be able to say that our wor-
thy President has ever been ready to watch
for a profit by instructions from those in
authority, and has striven to lead us in the
wake of our fellow-laborers in the cause of
truth. We have endeavored to look after,
and help the poor, whether in sickness or
health, during the past, and hope not to for-
get them in the future. We are also sav-
ing up grain and over one hundred bush-
els is stored carefully away in the Tithing Of-
fice, where our honorable Bishop M. W.
Merrill has loaned us a substantial bin for
the present. We have not had many work-
ing meetings during the winter, but as de-
lightful spring is now here, we will try to
work in the hive of Deseret with the rest
of the busy bees. Our sisters have done
nobly this winter in helping and waiting
on the helpless and we know that God will
bless them for it. Our farmers are busy
plowing and planting and may God give
them an increase, despite the grasshoppers
expectant. We have had a great deal of sick-
ness among us this winter and many souls
have gone to meet their Father in heaven.
   We love to read your excellent paper,

[Column 2]
and feel sorry to say there are not many
subscribers in Richmond, but we look for-
ward to better times, and hope to improve
in this as well as many other small duties
in our lives. Our esteemed president and
counselor Mrs. Pond, and Mrs. Hendricks,
desire to be remembered to you all.
				BESTY BROWER, Sec'y.


DIVERSIONS.
	"THAT'S the only wedding trip I shall
probably ever take" said an old bachelor as
he stumbled over a bride's train.

	BOOK-KEEPING, said an old lady, is not a
sedative employment, because, she added
thoughtfully, they must get so much exer-
cise running up and down the columns.

	A PHYSICIAN wrote a prescription and
as the patient left the room said to him, "I
wish you would let me know if it does you
any good, for I have been troubled with
rheumatism myself recently."

	A Spaniard and an American dining to-
gether, the former passing a dish of brains
to the latter said, "What you lack." The 
American offering the spaniard a plate of
tongue answered "What you have a surplus
of."

	THERE are two things people in this age
need to learn--When to say nothing, and
when anything is said  say it well. Bless-
ed is the man or woman who knows enough
to be silent.


A CARD
	A rumor is being current that we are using a New
York brand on the articles we manufacture, to have
them sell in this market.  We wish to state that it is 
not so.  We use no other than our own brand, and rely
on the purity and quality of our articles to commend
them to the public.
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
Salt Lake City, U. T.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on

INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS

	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
LADIES' JACKETS,
STOCKINGS, YARNS,
SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF 
FANCY WORSTED TIES,
 Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter. Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
Table Salt, Band Boxes and 
Dixie Cotton.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.
THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pnt at living rates.
We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to         C. R. SAVAGE,
                                  Salt Lake City, Utah.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of 
Millinery of any house in town.
Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in 
her Emporium.  Do not forget
17, East Temple street.
TEMPLE OF FASHION.
Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
 DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City

