VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1877.		No. 17.


PREEXISTENCE.

	Beloved friends! I knew ye well:
	Our spirits did together dwell
	In regions where all pure and bright
	Immortal beings live in light.
	We saw the nations joys and tears,
	Upon this earth thousands of years;
	And yet with full consent we come
	To earth and left a happier home,
	That we in trembling, love and fear,
	Might work out our salvation here;
	Might share in sorrows, grief and woe;
	And all the contrast fully know.
	And thus receive wisdom to gain
	Eternal lives, and power to reign
	With Jesus, in that blessed day,
	When sin from earth is done away.
	We knew the TRUTH must be brought forth
	In Latter-days upon the earth,
	And that we might this glory share,
	And with the noblest ones prepare,
	Temples and towers, wherein might shine
	The glorious rays of light divine,
	When God His purpose should fulfill,
	Subjecting all things to His will.
	We in the Gospel light rejoice
	And listen to the "still small voice,"
	That we a crown of life may win
	Regenerated from all sin.
								S. E. PRATT.
S. L. CITY, Sept. 19, 1876.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
			BACKBITING.

	Of all pernicious habits to which the
weakness of the human race permits us to
become addicted, there is none more prev-
alent, contemptible, treacherous and crim-
inal than what is familiarly known as
"backbiting." Prevalent, because it is
practiced unknowingly; contemptible, be-
cause it is ever linked with hypocrisy;
treacherous because it not only calumniates
its victims but debases its votaries; and
criminal because it violates a direct com-
mand of God. It is double dealing and dis-
honorable; for, in addition to causing the
contempt of our associates, it forces us to
despise ourselves. Like a two-edged sword
in the hands of a child, or a subtle poison,
envenoming all it touches. It lives by
associating with its sister Gossip, and
alighting on a half-ruined character and
mangling it when it thinks no danger is
near; like a vulture too cowardly to attack
its prey openly, when some other hand has
struck the fatal blow, greedily pounces up-
on the dead and dying; how many of us
there are who yield to and practice a form
of this vice, and yet do not realize that we
do so!
	We are sitting in our room, alone, when
a friend drops in to chat a few minutes; the
conversation flags for a moment, when either
one or the other happens to remember what
such a one said about so and so, or what
public opinion is respecting Mr. A.; again
it is confided to us, in the st.ictest secrecy,
that Miss B. really did this and that, or
that it is a great pity, a matter of regret
that Mr C. is of such a nature or character,
etc.; and ere we are aware, we find our-
selves exchanging critical opinions and
commentaries, and dealing out this social
scandal as though it were an incumbent
duty.
	Everywhere it is the same—at home,
abroad, on the street or in the parlor and

[Column 2]
ballroom—we feel that we connot be enter-
taining; and making this end justify the
means, adopt this careless and ruinous mode
of accomplishing it. If we knew the con-
tempt this habit inspires in the minds of
our listeners—even though they practice it
—it might influence us to suppress it. Let
us ask ourselves if we are pleased to hear
others abused? No, we are not. It is in
opposition to Christian philanthropy; and
what assurance have we to the contrary,
that it is only our presence which secures
us from similar treatment? None whatever,
the scandal-monger and backbiter are com-
mon enemies to mankind.
	These, however, are generally of the
more innocent kind, that draw on the re-
source for conversational material. There
is another class, though it is hard to draw
the line of demarcation—actuated by envy
and personal malice, and use such unfair,
mean ways to avenge their wrongs and pro-
mote their private interests. These are
slanderers. It is difficult to determine,
though, which of the two kinds produce
the worst results, but we are led to believe,
strange as it may appear to some, that the
first may lay claim to the distinction; for,
on the same principle that a false friend
may work more injury than the bitterest
enemy, so can the apparently friendly,
semi-condoling gossip create more trouble
than the professional slanderer. Why?
Because we will listen to and heed the one,
while we always distrust the other.
	But every word has its weight, and
though a good character is the best proof
against abuse, yet even as continual drops
of water wear away the stone, so if there
be a pregnable or half-weakened spot in an
otherwise good name, evil words, canker-
like, gnaw their way through. But, asks,
one, will not truth arrest itself? Yes, if
we will allow it a fair hearing, but alas! we
often deny it the privilege of a trial, too
readily trample it into the dust; and though
"truth crushed to the earth will rise again"
yet it is frequently discouraged by relent-
less persecution, and falls to rise no more,
until after-history vindicates the rights con-
temporaries denied.
	If we would but stop a moment and cal-
culate the result of every disparaging word
we feel tempted to utter, few of us could
be induced to proceed. If we knew the
unhappiness and misery that flies through
the world on the wings of slander, we
would pause at length before adding our
quota to the general curse; for as hesitation
loses much, so does it gain much, and the
still small voice of conscience is an arbiter
which is ever ready to condemn a wicked
deed, or applaud a good one, if we will al-
low it to assume its office as the dictator of
our actions. Professional slanderers, thank
heaven, are the exception and not the rule,
but how careful we ought to be that we do
not progress in the downward path until
we swell their numbers and merit their
punishment—ostracism from good society
and the favor of onr God. The only way
to escape is to repudiate all tendencies in
that direction, to discountenance by exam-
ple and precept, the vicious propensity of
"backbiting." By doing this we follow
the teachings of our Savior "speak evil of

[Column 3]
no one." We are all frail creatures and
continually liable to go astray. We ask
God to forgive our weaknesses; should we
not, then, forgive the shortcomings of our
fellow men? and unless we do, is it not
hollow mockery to pray? The apostle Paul
says: "Though I speak with the tongue of
an angel, though I have faith to remove
mountains and understand all myster-
ies and all knowledge, and have not char-
ity, I am nothing." Let us then be charit-
able and forgiving, and when a fellow crea-
ture says or does wrong, or is not just as
we think he should be, don't tear his name
to pieces, or disparage him by unkind
words, but show him his error and encour-
age him in his efforts to reform. Remem-
ber the words of our Savior. "Judge not
lest ye be judged," and, "let him that is
guiltless cast the first stone."
							REFORM.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			CANTON, FULTON CO., ILL.,
							Jan. 10, 1877.
TO ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Dear sister:—As you are President of the
Relief Society, I deem it proper to report
progress to you, and the good sisters asso-
ciated with you in your labors of love and
charity among the Saints in Zion. Although
charity begins at home with the ladies of
Utah, their power is felt for good all over
the land; not only in words, but by noble
deeds of sacrifice in the establishment of
right. I feel proud of my sisters in Zion,
and am one with them in the glorious work
of assisting to establish righteousness in the
kingdom of God. Although my calling is
to preach the Word of life and salvation
abroad in this dark, benighted nation, dis-
tracted and demoralized by corruption and
misrule, until anarchy has taken the place
of law and order all over the land. The
fact is they have fallen upon the "little
stone in the mountains" and are being brok-
en to pieces. And thus it may become the
Head of the Corner, but that is their busi-
ness. Our labor is to build up the kingdom
of God, and warn the honest in heart to
flee from the impending judgments about to
fall on this nation.
	On the 5th of last March, Junius F.
Wells and myself organized a Branch of the
Church in this place with seven members;
now it numbers fifty souls, all rejoicing in
the truth. On Monday, Dec. 31st, I organ-
ized a Branch of the Relief Society in this
place, to be called the Fulton Co. Branch
Relief Society, with Sister Sarah Williams
President, Elizabeth Emanuel and Emile
Williams Counselors; Emile Williams Sec-
retary, and Ellen Vaughan Treasurer.
	We instructed them to send a report of
their proceedings to the Editor of the EX-
PONENT for publication, as they desire to
be one with their sisters in Zion. They
had a temporary organization and were
awaiting my return to organize them offi-
cially.
	Remember me kindly to your co-workers
in the cause of truth, and believe me as
ever one with you, and all the faithful in
the kingdom of God.
						D. M. STUART.


130		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Jan. 6th, 1877, was the first of
the year 1877, and the sisters who spoke
were most earnest in their expressions of
renewed interest on the subject of advance-
ment in all good works and home improve-
ments. President Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
sided, and the instruction and testimony
given through those who spoke were worthy
of the time and institution, and we sin,
cerely trust may be made applicable in the
lives of all who love virtue and righteous-
ness and are seeking after eternal treasures.

	The General Retrenchment meeting held
in the Fourteentn Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, Jan. 20, was crowded almost to
overflowing; there was not a vacant seat in
the room. Counselor Zina D. Young pre-
sided over the meeting, (President Mrs.
M. I. Horne being too ill to attend,) and
gave some excellent instruction. Counsel-
ors E. R. Snow, B. W. Smith, and E. How-
ard, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs.
E. Tuft, Mrs. M. E. Watmough and others
all spoke upon those things which are al-
ways inspiring and encouraging to the Lat-
ter-day Saints.

			HARRISVILLE, Jan. 11, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society has been re-organized,
and held their first meeting Thursday, the
4th, of this month.
	The former president resigned her office,
and we have started anew with a determi-
nation to do all in our power to be one with
all the other branches of this great and
grand institution, which the Lord has
deemed requisite to establish upon the earth,
to assist in carrying out His wise and holy
purposes, for the re-generation of the hu-
man family. The following officers were
appointed.
	Mrs. Ellen C. Fuller, President.
	"	Elizabeth Laney,	} Counselors.
	"	Ann Newton,	}
	"	Hattie E. Laney, Secretary.
	"	Amanda Daly, Treasurer.

				DRAPER, Jan. 14, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, a band of young sisters, were organ-
ized Nov. 30th, 1875, into a Retrenchment
Association, for the purpose of co-working
together for the building up of the kingdom
of God, which has been established in these
last days "no more to be thrown down or
given to another people." We hold our
meetings once a week, and those of the
members who attend seem to take a deep
interest in the Society, and are willing to
do all they can to make the meetings profit-
able and regular. We have considerable
reading in our meetings from the EXPO-
NENT, the Book of Mormon, and Doctrine
and Covenants, and such other books as are
calculated to benefit us. We realize that
we have been greatly benefitted by meet-
ing together and talking to each other on
the principles pertaining to life and salva-
tion. We should all pay the strictest atten-
tion to our religion and not let the follies
and fashions of Babylon decoy us from our
duties, for we cannot take any of these
with us when we leave this earth, but we
can treasure up in our minds the works of
God, and that will prepare us for each and
every duty that God requires at our hands.
And as this is the commencement of a new

[Column 2]
year, I trust that we will all commence
with it and strive to reform ourselves a lit-
tle more, and try each day that we live to
do a little better than we did the day pre-
vious. And if we do this in humility and
meekness before our Father in heaven we
shall not be left to wander in darkness from
the pathway which will lead at length to
life eternal.
	May each and every one of us strive at
all times to live our religion, that we may
gain that exaltation which we are in pur-
suit of, which will bring us back into the
presence of God, and yield us that happi-
ness and joy which the world cannot give.
				ANNIE BURNHAM,
							Sec'y.

		HYRUM, CACHE CO, Jan. 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy president, Mrs.
C. Liljenquist, I address a line to you to in-
form you that we are still trying to honor
our calling as a branch of the Rellef Society,
and to do all in our power to assist the
needy, and comfort the afflicted either by
word or deed. We are one with our sisters
in Utah to follow out the counsel of our
honored President with regard to storing
up our wheat. Bro. Ira Allen was kind
enough to proffer us a room in his granary,
a committe was appointed who have already
bought between one hundred and one hun-
dred and fifty bushels of wheat and are still
busy. They are going to visit the brethren
and solicit from them according to counsel.
I am happy to say that our Bisbop and
many of the brethren are willing to assist
us in procuring and storing our grain, and
the sisters as a majority are united in this
important movement. We are also called
upon to donate means towards assisting in
building the Temple; and it is our desire
to be always ready to respond to the differ-
ent calls made by the servants of the Lord.
In conclusion I will say that the EXPO-
NENT is a very welcome visitor. It is ap-
preciated by both old and young, and may
sucess attend the noble women that spend
their time and talents in contributing to
make it interesting and instructive, is the
prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
				NANCY M. NEILSON,
								Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.

	PROVIDENCE, CACHE Co., Jan. 14, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	At our regular Relief Society meeting
which is held on the first Thursday of
every month, our worthy Bishop and a few
of the brethren met with us, a good spirit
prevailed, much good instruction was im-
parted to us by the Bishop. He said it was
his desire that we, as sisters, should take
hold and carry out the counsel given by
President Young in regard to storing up
grain.
	The President, Sister Margaret Mathews,
urged upon us the importance of taking
heed to this counsel, and in faith and with
energy do all we can whereby we might
sustain ourselves and our little ones in the
day of famine and distress; she also coun-
seled the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT
by subscribing for it, showing to us the im-
portance, as wives and mothers, to sustain
to the best of our endeavors everything
calculated in its nature to benefit the saints.
We have commenced collecting grain, our
means are very limited, but it is the inten-
tion of the sisters to do all they can. When

[Column 2]
we heard of the arrival of Sister E. R.
Snow in Logan and that it was her inten-
tion to visit this settlement, the sisters here
were expecting a treat of good things by
listening to her instruction, when lo! the
next report that came, was that she had re-
turned to Salt Lake City, and no one could
tell the cause of her sudden departure, and
many conjectures were circulated among
the sisters but the most feasible idea that
we could arrive at was, that the weather
was too cold for her to travel, and that when
it got warmer she, with others, would visit
us.
	We hail with delight the prospect of
having a Temple erected in Cache Co., to
the name of the Lord, whereby we can of-
ficiate for those that have died without the
knowledge of the Gospel.
	The Lord has blessed us with health, we
have not been afflicted with sickness as
some settlements have, and hope and pray
that the Lord in His goodness and mercy
may continue to look over our imperfect-
ness, that our lives may be spared to do good
among the Saints, and while certain individ-
uals that once partook of the good spirit,
but through transgression have denied the
faith and are striving to bring trouble upon
us, we as saints will renew our diligence,
and become more united in our actions and
feelings, so that we may enjoy a greater
portion of the Holy Spirit and become
more perfect; this is the desire of my
heart.
						E. E. M.

			MORONI, Jan. 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Agreeable to your request I write you our
proceedings relative to the storing of wheat.
We have in our possession between one
and two hundred bushels of wheat, well se-
cured in a good granary; and we still feel
to go ahead and do all we can to gather in
the staff of life. And by so doing we obey
the counsel of our beloved president, Brig-
ham Young, and ever feeling it our duty
and desire to do our part in all things per-
taining to the kingdom of God, standing
firm and unshaken in the cause of truth,
that we may hold out faithful to the end is
my prayer.
						D. P. IRONS.
	P. S. The reason that there are so few
that take the EXPONENT here is that two-
thirds of them are Danish and Swedish and
cannot read the English language.
							D. P. I.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ELDERS A. M. MUSSER and O. F. Whit-
ney are creating something of a sensation
in Eastern Pennsylvania where they are
seeking to promulgate the principles of the
Gospel as believed in by the Church of Je-
sus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Persecu-
tion followed the Savior and His Apostles,
and those who undertake to proclaim the
same Gospel taught by them will receive
similar persecution. Jesus said "If they
persecute me, will they not also persecute
you?" "The Daily Examiner and Express"
of Jan. 13, published in Lancaster, Penn.,
contains some items concerning these Eld-
ers, and makes reference to the vile reports
which have been circulated concerning El-
der Musser, which they forbear publishing
"as he is a native of Lancaster Co. and very
respectably connected." The same paper
published a letter from Elder Musser giving
the people some ideas of Mormonism, and
statistics of Utah's progress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		131


THE GOOD GIRL'S RESOLVE.
			[TUNE, "AUNT SALLY."]

I'll not give heed to vanity, to fashion or to pride
Nor any of those silly ways God's servants have decried,
Appearing ever neat and clean, avoiding all excess,
Empolying my own handiwork in whatsoe'er I dress.

					CHORUS.

	Good girls rally, sustain the cause of truth,
	Remember your Creator in the days of early youth.

I'll never condescend to be a coquette or a flirt,
Allow my skirts when walking out to trail in filth and 
	dirt.
To chastity, and modesty I'll ever be inclined
Avoiding rude loud laughter which denotes the vacant
	mind.

I will not use the powder puff, nor daub my face with
	paint,
And never deign to eat or drink what would my system
	taint;
I never will be found among young men who smoke or
	drink;
Avoiding as associates rude girls who leer and wink.

The cause of God I will sustain with undivided heart,
All evil passions will restrain, from sinful ways depart:
At all times good examples set whate'er my lot may be,
Whene'er my pathway is beset, from all temptation flee
									WM. WILLIS
	Dedicated to the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Socie-
ties, Dec. 13th, 1876;


THE COMMON LOT OF ALL.

	There is no heart but hath its inner anguish,
		There is no eye but hath by tears been wet,
	There is no soul but hath been known to languish
		O'er hours of darkness it can ne'er forget.

	There is no cheek, however bright its roses,
		But faded buds beneath its hue are hid;
	No eye that in its dewy light reposes,
		But broken starbeams tremble 'neath its lid.

	There is no voice with laughter ringing,
		However light and gay its words may be,
	But hath in hours of agony been seeking
		For power to solve its life's deep mystery.

	We are sojourners in this land of dreaming,
		Hands meet, hearts join, and eye to eye replies;
	Nor deem we that below a brow all beaming
		A hidden grief all unrevealed lies.
											E. R.
S. L. City, Jan. 5, 1876.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

				ST. GEORGE, Jan. 2, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	Yesterday the Temple in this city, or a
portion of it, was dedicated. At 10 o'clock
the people began to wend their way to the
Temple block. It was announced on the
day previous, at meeting, that the doors
would be opened at 12 o'clock m. and closed
at a quarter to one. Everybody seemed
anxious to be there too early rather than too
late. Riding down a little before twelve,
one met people going by ones and twos;
wagons loaded with men and women; and
some few carriages occupied by happy-look-
ing people; and on almost every face was
seen  thoughtful but joyous expression, in
keeping with the occasion. The building
was surrounded by a throng of people when
we arrived. Presently the carriage con-
taining the President drove up at the south
side entrance to the basement. Simultane-
ously the several doors were opened, and
the people crowded into the two large rooms
—running north and south—of the base-
ment story. President Young: together
with those of the Twelve Apostles who
were present, and some of the leading
brethren, occupied the font-room. The
large double doors connecting the large halls
with the font room were thrown open to en-
able all to hear. At the time appointed the

[Column 2]
outer doors were closed and the services
commenced by the congregation singing
the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning." Bros. Woodruff and Snow then
gave some instructions to the people, as to
how they should conduct themselves while
the prayer was being offered up. That
every heart should be uplifted to God, and
every head bowed, and every eye closed.
Apostle Woodruff then solemnly ascended
the steps leading to the font, and in an im-
pressive manner appealed to Almighty God
to accept of His people's offering. My own
heart and mind were too interested in the
prayer to notice anything. But nothing
was forgotten in it. The blessing of Heav-
en was sought on all the Relief Societies
throughout the world. Also upon all the
sisters who had contributed in any way to
the building of the House. Of course I
could but remember this, as I was included
among those sisters. At the close of the
prayer, the choir, under the leadership of
Bro. McFarlan, sang a beautiful hymn com-
posed for the occasion by C. L. Walker.
The congregation then proceeded to the
main hall on the next floor. After complete
order was obtained, another hymn was sung
and Bro. Erastus Snow delivered the dedi-
catory prayer for that room and its sur-
roundings. President Young with some of the
leading brethren then ascended to the seal-
ing room to dedicate that. The voices of
the brethren united in a hymn floated down
to us, like the distant strains of a heavenly
choir. After the brethren returned to the
lower room, the people were told that work
was to be commenced in the Temple imme-
diately.
	Then that which the people had so longed
for, and still hoped for, transpired; Presi-
dent Young arose in the power of the Holy
Ghost and addressed the multitude. His
exhortations were powerful and impressive.
The house seemed filled with a heavenly
host, and the President's face fairly shone
with the light of the Holy Ghost. His re-
marks were reported in full and will short-
ly be published.
	To-day he feels much better than could
be expected; seems cheerful and comforta-
ble; was out in his carriage this afternoon.
	It was estimated that there were over
1,200 people present, yesterday, at the
Temple.
	The weather here is simply delightful.
Imagine yourself enjoying an ideal spring.
A deep blue sky, a few white fleecy clouds
a warm, brilliant sun, with rather cold
nights, and you have a picture of the state
of the weather day after day. Not even
rain enough for a little mud. Warm and
pleasant, except at night.
							S. Y. D


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		NO SURPLUS WOMEN.

	But though I loved you well I woo'd you not,
	And yet good faith, I wished myself a man;
	Or that we women had men's privilege
				Of speaking first.

									SHAKESPEARE.
	The very fact that God is in all His
works consistent that He never created
something for nothing, is a positive demon-
stration that there are no "surplus women,"
and that according to the first command-
ment given to man, (and we believe just as
binding upon woman) namely to "multiply
and replenish the earth," and from which
law there has never been an appeal, proves
that every man and woman who desires to
obey the laws of God should marry. There
is no doubt as many men as women born

[Column 2]
into the world but nature's laws are pervert-
ed, the means she has provided are not
properly adjusted, because sin has come into
the world, and an antagonism has developed
itself which has to be met and dealt with;
it has created a disturbance and confusion
and disarranged the eternal laws and prin-
ciples which were they carried out in their
perfection would reconcile and harmonize
all animate nature.
	God has given to those whom he created
in His own image, an agency and the power
to use that as an influence for good or evil,
and through the errors and darkness of
"the blind leaders of the blind," instead of
trusting in all humility and meekness upon
God, men have wandered further and fur-
ther from the right and become so wrapt
in traditions that it is almost impossible to
make them comprehend the will of Jeho-
vah. Misconstructed governments which
contain in their codes the elements of dis-
solution, are the causes of the degenerating
consequences which are becoming more
than ever noticeable. A few years back
there was less talk of the great majority of
old maids, and also of divorces. What are
the causes of these results? Philosophers
tell us there is no effect without a cause,
and if, as some writers affirm, there are not
women enough in certain localities for each
man to have a wife, why do not men marry
those who are marriageable; probably the
fact is, that women choose to remain old
maids, rather than marry useless, profigate,
or intemperate men. We still persist in
saying there are more good women than
men and if they cannot marry honorable
husbands they choose to remain single, un-
til they fully comprehend the laws of com-
plete progression, and then they will not
unite themselves wtth wicked men, for of
what avail would it be? They would only
lead them into misery and degradation and
entail upon them an everlasting curse instead
of blessing.
	It is no mysterious dispensation of provi-
dence that has left them "lone roses to pine
on the stem," or unprovided with husbands
to support, protect and comfort them.
	Sir Henry James (we are informed) calls
unmarried women "social failures," by
what name or phrase would he christen
bachelors? They not only fail socially but
morally, physically and spiritually; and on
them instead of woman, no doubt will fall
the sin of not fulfilling the first command-
ment, because woman by tradition, custom
and long-established laws of society, does
not assert a right to choose for herself, one
who shall be her companion and the father
of her children. Woe be unto her if she
dare so outrage the man-made positive laws
of social and domestic life. Such a woman
is made the jest and by-word of her sisters
even, and the scoff and scorn of those who
call themselves "the protectors and support-
ers of the weaker sex." Occasionally you
will hear the remark that woman has as
much right to her choice as man, but she
must not speak out, or show her preference
except by seeking to attract with womanly
grace and sweetness, modestly, quietly and
unobtrusively. In my estimation it is far
more honorable to openly avow one's senti-
ments than to practice all the wiles and arts
of modern or ancient invention for the sake
of procuring the husband of one's choice,
or failing in that, to profane the holy ordi-
nance of marriage before high heaven at
the sacred altar, with one who does not
form with you that perfect bond of love and
confidence which is essential to the ele-
ments which should enter into that new
life which is to be the fruit of your union.

			TO BE CONTINUED.


132		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,			} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1877.


GOVERNMENTAL POWERS.

	Throughout the world, the wisest and the
greatest of mankind have sought to establish
firm governments, for a safe protection to all
classes of society. People have talked and
written about it, devised laws and statutes,
legislated and presented memorials; spent time,
talents, money and the best energies of life, in
pursuit of such knowledge as would secure the
best and most perfect justice under all the dif-
ferential circumstances which might or could
occur to individuals or peoples in all the phases
of life. In all ages wars have been waged,
nation against nation, to maintain certain
principles of power, lest they should lose any
part of the foundation of strength which up-
held and sustained the dignity and authority
of government. Are mortal men capable of
maintaining a government which will stand
all the hard pressure of general and special con-
tingencies? It would indeed seem otherwise
from the evidence given through long periods
of time, of the breaking up and destruction of
all the various forms of government which
have been most firmly and securely establish-
ed even by the strongest forces which could be
exercised. In consideration of all these inci-
dents and occurrences, in the past history of
the world, the conclusion must inevitably be
drawn, that the government of God is the only
perfect pattern.


[Column 1]
	WINTER EVENING REVERIES.

	"Now stir the fire, and close the shutters fast,
	Let fall the curtain, wheel the sofa round;
	So let us welcome peaceful evening in."
								COWPER.

	In the long winter evenings there are hours
which the great Creator of seasons and times
seems to have allotted to mortals for enjoyment
and self-examination. It is customary at this
season, among all classes of people, to draw
around the hearth, cheerful or dull, and partici-
pate more or less in some simple home pastime
—such as stories of a marvellous nature, or old
legends of fairies, ghosts, hobgoblins, or any
remniscence of reality or fiction that presents
itself first upon the tablet of the mind. Sub-
jects chosen a[-] this time are usually character-
istic of the person or the place, and partake in
a noticeable degree of the atmosphere which
predominates.
	Sitting by a blazing fire of coal, all aglow,
sending forth animation and warmth, one sus-
ceptible of outward impressions feels imbued
with pleasant thoughts and bright pictures or
representations of life; something appropriate
to the cheerful aspect of the room, and the ra-
diant faces lit up by the glow and warmth of
the burning coal, which suggest happy

[Column 2]
thoughts and pleasing ideas on the past, prese[-]t
and future.

		"Ere the evening lamps are lighted,
			And, like phantoms, grim and tall,
		Shadows from the fitful fireside
			Dance upon the parlor wall."

	At such moments, when the busy toil of the
day is over, and one sits down to muse for a
respite, ere the night fairly closes in, with all
its ceremony of silent potency, this verse of
Longfellow's may be most fully realized. Who
has not sat and watched fitful shadows cast
upon the wall by the reflection of the dull fire-
light, and drawn comparisons suited to the con-
dition of mind and the adaptibility of such
shading and outlining to the musings of the
fancies within?
	"We belong to our time," some one has said;
is it because people partake in a large degree
of the influence of surroundings and associa-
tions?
	It is extremely difficult to realize the cold-
ness, apathy and hard selfishness of human
nature taken as a whole, when the heart is full
of generous warmth, and overflowing with
blessings, which, though small perhaps in
themselves, are great, according to the spirit of
appreciation in which they are received.
	The actual busy "work-a-day world," with all
its shifting, noises, sights and struggles, is shut
out from the circle by the fireside, as though it
were a thing of the past. There may be news-
papers telling of some friend that has passed
away, or some one who has failed in business,
or of the general obligations of mankind—but
their interest is transient and fails to fix the
attention but for a few moments only.
	It is pleasant and customary in some homes
to have tea or chocolate with rosy apples or
dough-nuts, to while away the long evenings
which succeed the short days; but we were
upon the subject of reveries, we were not think
ing of newspapers, letters, recreations, tea or
refreshments just now, "a truce to all these,"
(nevertheless "one cannot feed upon air") but
our cogitations sitting here by the glowing:
grate were of old legends, past experiences,
dreamy fancies, that have long since died in
embryo—sentiments choked to death in the
expression, memories of childhood and school-
days, and by-gone anticipations, which are now
perhaps the more pleasant from lack of fulfill-
ment, thinking of these and conjuring up com-
parisons, shadings and imitations to life,
watching the fitful blaze and the shadowy re-
flections find it most delightful amusement for
a few hours.
	Musings like these are not unprofitable, they
lead one to look into the labyrinths of the
mind, and ascertain whether there are still
rich, fertile, uncultivated, or unexplored fields
for life's uses, with fresh bubbling springs of
thought ready to bring into real actual service
the reserved forces, which time and opportuni-
ties may yet develop into special phases for the
good of mankind. These reveries are not only
attractive in themselves, but ofttimes a posi-
tive relief, especially to the over-burdened
mind; the scientific thinker in any and all of the
professions, the pursuits and avocations of daily
labor, and some of these comprise real drudg-
ery, mental or physical, such persons should
allow themselves part at least of these long,
winter evenings to recruit mental and physi-
cal forces. If all vitality is drained the person
becomes stale, dry and unfruitful, then the
special mission assigned them upon the earth
will fail in its complete accomplishment.
	These are hours given more especially for
contemplation and reflection, and charity for
one's self and all the universal brotherhood.
Cherish then in these hours of firelight reve-

[Column 3]
ries "love of our neighbors" and a desire to
recognize the affections which centre in home-
life, and become better acquainted not only
with one's self, but with each others finer and
more lovable attributes. The winter evenings
should contribute to that tenderness, devotion
and regard for each other's happiness, which
are the most pleasing features of home inter-
course. These are times when men and women
may enter with zeal and true appreciation into
those charming little courtesies that endear
and beautify home-life, purifying the best ele-
ments of character, and refining the tone of
every-day association. Were men and women
to devote a little more time and thought to
practising virtues and endearments at home,
there would be less excuse for seeking these at-
tractions and enjoyments abroad.
					[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MOST perfect surprise was tendered to Miss
E. R. Snow on Monday, Jan. 22, the day fol-
lowing her birthday. All unexpectedly she
was invited to the residence of Mrs. Bathshe-
ba W. Smith, where she found assembled as
many of the sisters as the house could hold, to
congratulate her on the anniversary of her
natal-day, and wish her many returns of the
same with increased joy, prosperity and happi-
ness. Prest. Daniel H. Wells and Elder Orson
Pratt, sen., were present on the occasion; each
of them, in a happy manner, made some ex-
cellent remarks appropriate to the time and
place. Mrs. E. A. Whitney chanted forth in
praise a "song of Zion." A sumptuous dinner
had been shrewdly and quietly arranged, and
everything went "merry as a marriage bell."
Miss Snow was the recipient of some elegant
and valuable presents from her "dear five hun-
dred friends," but the choicest gift of all is the
love of the people.
	ANOTHER GOOD TIME.—The Fourth Annual
Meeting of the Young Ladies' Association of
the 10th Ward was held Jan. 10, 1877, at the
ward meeting house. There were in attendance
several ladies of the General Retrenchment
Association, Mrs. E. B. Wells of the Woman's
Exponent, the officers of the Ward Relief So-
ciety, and others. After Prest. Mrs. M. J.
Pierce and several of the young girls had made
suitable remarks, Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,
Margaret Young and Wilmirth East spoke
beautifully on the principles of the Gospel, our
duties as mothers in Israel, daughters of Zion,
and their good instructions and kind counsel
will long be remembered and cherished by
those who heard them. We have had a true
spiritual feast, which will cause many to live
purer and better lives.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke on the Grain Ques-
tion, Woman's Book, and Woman's Exponent.
Never before has it been known where women
have saved grain for a famine; this is a privi-
lege which God has assigned to us. The publi-
cation of the Woman's Book should be pushed
forward by the sisters, for it will preach the
Gospel in many places where the elders would
not be listened to, and will remove much of the
prejudice in regard to the Mormon Women.
The EXPONENT should also be sustained, for it
also has a voice in proclaiming to the world,
the rights and motives of the Women of Utah.
	Other remarks were made, after which we
adjourned until our next regular meeting.
	M. P.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In response to my request Sister Jenson of
Brigham City forwarded the following statisti-


cal items of Mantua; not the Italian Mantua,
celebrated as the birthplace of Virgil the poet,
but a small, thriving town, one hour's drive
north from Brigham City, in "Little Valley,"
Box Elder County.			E. R. SNOW.
	"This little town was first settled in the
Spring of 1863, by eight humble and poor fam-
ilies, over whom my husband, H. P. Jensen,
presided as Bishop. They have since increased
mostly from the Old World, of the same hum-
ble class, to the number of two hundred and
eighty-three.
	They now constitute a well-ordered and hap-
py society of Latter-day Saints. They have
good meetings for worship, with a good choir.
The fathers are organized in Quorums of the
Priesthood—the mothers organized in a Relief
Society, work together in love and unity, hav-
ing a capital of $300 (three hundred dollars)—
they are striving to honor every requisition—
looking after the wants of the poor, storing up
grain against a day of famine, and living up to
the spirit of the times. The daughters are or-
ganized in a Young Ladies' Retrenchment As-
sociation—their wearing apparel being as much
as possible, "the workmanship of their own
hands." They make their own hats, artificial
flowers, &c. They meet together once in two
weeks, and have interesting meetings, and, as
daughters, are truly an honor to their parents.
	The sons are organized in a Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Society—have very in-
teresting meetings, and to their credit it may
be said, and truly, not one of those young men
indulge either in strong drink or in the use of
tobacco in any form.
	The sexes of those associations meet together
once a month—the young gentlemen and ladies
presiding alternately. This has proved a great
benefit in their improvement in the develop-
ment of their talents.
	A good day school is taught by Miss C. An-
derson. The Sunday School is well attended.
Dancing parties and other amusements are
strictly controlled according to the published
circular and counsel of the Priesthood, and
neither liquor nor round dancing is ever intro-
duced.
	Here the people have manifested their faith
by their works. In the past year, 1876, they
have donated
	For the Temple......................... $708.20
	Fast-day offering......................   136.35
	For emigrating the poor..........     78.40
		Arizona mission................   238.70
		Brigham City Tabernacle..  300.00
							     ————
			Total............................1461 65
	As this little town lies in the rude moun-
tains, eight hundred feet above Brigham City,
the people have had to contend with many dif-
ficulties in the form of grasshoppers, crickets
and frost: the former and latter were so des-
tructive last season that their wheat crop was
reduced eight bushels per head, but their econ-
omy is admirable and they are not discouraged.
They have a store in the United Order, where
the account shows that in two months' time
they sold butter and eggs to the amount of six
hundred dollars.
	So much for the little tree planted thirteen
years ago, in a cold corner of the Lord's vine-
yard."
								S. J. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORMON ELDERS IN THE EAST.

	A debate was held on Thursday and Friday
evenings, Dec. 28 and 29, between Elder A. M.
Musser of this city, and the Rev. Dr. Martin
of Ohio, in Massasoit's Hall, Strasburg, Lan-


caster Co., Penn. The following were the
heads discussed:
	1. We believe that the atonement of our Sa-
viour covered only the sins entailed upon man
by Adam's fall, and not the individual, personal
sins of men.
	2. We believe that men must work out their
own salvation from their individual sins by
their good works through faith, repentance,
baptism—by immersion, and for the remission
of sins, and the laying on of hands for the re-
ception of the Holy Ghost.
	3. We believe that the gifts of the Spirit as
enjoyed by the Saints anciently, are absolutely
necessary to the true and proper understanding
and interpretation of the Holy Scriptures,
which is a Divine record, and that the Holy
Scripture is as a sealed book to all who do not
enjoy the Holy Ghost as enjoyed by those who
wrote it.
	4. We believe that the celestial order of Mar-
riage for time and eternity, commonly called
"Polygamy," as taught by us, is strictly a
Scriptural doctrine.
	5. King James' English translation of the
Bible is our standard.
	Signed
		A. MILTON NUSSER,
		ORSON F. WHITNEY,
	Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints.
	I agree to impugn the above doctrines of
Mormonism, maintaining the doctrines of the
Presbyterian Church, including the immediate
inspiration of the Holy Scriptures as written
in the original language of the inspired pen-
man, and I believe that King James' transla-
tion is generally very good.
	Signed,
		JOHN WYNNE MARTIN.	Each speaker was limited to twenty minutes,
Elder Musser taking the affirmative, and Dr.
Martin having the concluding speech upon
each subject. Each party chose an Umpire
and those two chose a third who acted as mod-
erator.
	Passage after passage of Scripture was quoted;
and the whole evenings were spent in this
manner. Some thought the Rev. Dr. was not
as competent as he should have been, being a
little too nervous, &c. No doubt the questions
were ably dealt with by Elder Musser, but as
the adage goes,
		"Convince a man against his will,
		He's of the same opinion still."
	The world do not want the truth, they want
popularity, position and money.


STORING GRAIN.

	In an article upon storing grain, published
in the Deseret News of Jan. 17, written by
O. B. Shaw, we find some items in regard
to the subject which as we are seriously in-
terested in the matter, we desire to lay be-
fore our readers.
	"There are three great agencies operat-
ing in all nature in the destruction as well
as in the organization of all vegetable
and animal life forms, viz. heat, moisture
and light. To the operation of these subtle
forces is due nearly all the great changes
that recur from season to season. Modify
or control these forces and you have the
key of the whole subject. Construct gran-
aries impenetrable to moisture and unaf-
fected by the heat of the sun or surround-
ing air, cool, dry, and dark, and no in-
sect life can flourish in them, no parasitic
life will grow, and the conditions thus se-


cured, together with the conditions of dry
soil for the land where the various grains
grew and mixed copiously, completes the
natural law or conditions for their preserva-
tion through long periods of time. This
soil mixing among the grain does no injury,
as it all escapes in the milling process.
	Dig deeply into the alluvials of the earth
the world over, and expose the soils from
those depths to heat, moisture, and light,
and in nearly all cases, a vegetation essen-
tially different from that found on the sur-
face springs np.
	Joseph in Egypt, directed the storing of
grain with the dry soils of the lands, thus
showing himself to be well acquainted
with the natural facts before mentioned.
	Granaries constructed of good concrete of
lime and gravel are perhaps as good mate-
rial as any; they must be cool, dry, and
dark, and care be taken that the building
and contents, wheat and soil, are as dry as
possible.


OBITUARY.

	Died, in Ogden City, Jan. 14th, 1877, Mary
W. Brown. She was born in Stockport, Ches-
shire, Eng., 30th of March, 1814. Embraced
the Gospel in 1850, and came to the valley in
1854. In 1855 she was married to Capt. James
Brown of Ogden. She was an exemplary wo-
man. She adopted two motherless children
and bestowed on them the care, anxiety and
love of a fond mother; and during her sickness
the thought of them was always uppermost
and she would frequently say, "What will be-
come of my poor boys?" She was a subscriber
to the EXPONENT, and a member of the Relief
Society. As a faithful Latter-day Saint she
loved her religion and lived it truly and con-
sistently, and has died with a glorious hope
of the resurrection, respected and esteemed by
all who knew her. "Blessed are the dead that
die in the Lord," for they shall come forth in
the morning of the resurrection crowned with
eternal glory."					A. M. F.
	Ogden, Jan. 24th, 1877.


AN INTERESTING discovery of a part of
the old Roman wall has been lately made at
London in the heart of the city. Some
buildings were demolished in Camomile
Street, near its junction with Bishopsgate
Street, and in the excavation some thirty-
six feet of the old wall were revealed, be-
sides a bastion. The wall was fully nine
feet thick; the bastion projects on the north-
ern side, is more than semi-circle, solid; and
about sixteen feet across; the heights va-
ried from two to four feet and a half, and
the whole was about ten feet below the lev-
el of the modern street. The wall had had
faces of roughly wrought stone, with a
double band of the usual bright tiles on thecity side; but on the outside much dark
iron stone had been used. Much Kentisli
rag stone and green stone had also been em-
ployed, and this seems to point to an epoch
for the construction, when the Romans had
a knowledge of the country and ability to
transport materials to considerable distance.


SCENE, library. Freshman—"Where
shall I find Darwin's works?" Librarian—
"What do you want with Darwin?"—
Freshman—"I want his "Origin of Species,'
so as to find something about this finance
question."—Cornell Era.


134		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN IN THE CHURCHES.

	Rev. Isaac M. See, of the Wickliffe
Church, who is upon trial for permitting
women to preach from his pulpit, occupied
the entire session of the Newark (New Jer-
sey) Presbytery on Thursday, in making
his defense, speaking thereon for three and
a half hours. The matters contained in
the charge, he said, were such as related
to his relation as a Christian minister and
to the Lord Jesus Christ, the king and head
of all things in the Church. The women
who had preached in his church were dele-
gates to a National Convention which was
being held at Newark, and he had no
thought that any of the delegates proposed
speaking in his chapel until the day pre-
vious to their appearing there. He had
been glad to have them there, for he was
pleased to see that the Lord had opened up
a field for his daughters in a sphere where
men had so signally failed; but in permit-
ting this occupancy of his pulpit he had no
thought of going counter to the wishes of
the Presbytery. It was only after prayer-
ful consideration that this action had been
taken, and it was not until meeting with
Dr. Craven on the succeeding Wednesday
that he had the least intimation that he
had done aught at which any of his breth-
ren could take offense. He believed that
women had as much power in the preach-
ing of the Holy Gospel as he had himself.
His experience in the company of blessed
baptized women had been for the past
twelve years in attendance on what were
called "Tuesday meetings" at the house of
Dr. Palmer, in the city of New York. Mrs.
Palmer he regarded as a woman of God,
baptized of the Holy Ghost for her work.
A more noble life than hers he did not
think he ever saw, nor a person of more
personal power. He would scarcely be
willing to stand and preach when he could
not invite such a person as Mrs. Palmer to
stand and preach and teach the Holy Gos-
pel. In those Palmer meetings he had
heard the grandest eloquence from female
lips.
	In relation to the Bible teaching, he
would call the attention of the Presbytery
to the passage, "We are neither Greek nor
Jew, bond nor free, male nor female," and
in his opinion, Woman was the most vital
portion of the house of God. It was evi-
dent that she was coming into a wider lib-
erty than ever before; the events of the
past few years would prove this to every
unprejudiced mind—not to a Presbyterian
mind, perhaps, but to the mind that looks
outside a narrow sectarian view. He would
not urge her right to ordination, but he did
claim that she had a right to stand, as any
layman might stand, and preach either in
pulpit or pew, for the pulpit in his opinion,
was no more sacred than a barrel-head or a
sidewalk." With regard to the commands
of Paul that women should be silent in the
churches, Mr. See said that in those days
in Corinth there were babbling women, and
it was probably such women that Paul had
reference to. There were also babbling wo-
men in the present day, as any one might
find, if they tried to get up a church fair or
festival. The women of Corinth were of
the most degraded type, which was a suffi-
cient reason for Paul's mandate to them.
The act for which he stood charged was not
forbidden either in the book of discipline
or in the confession of faith, and why should
he promise not to do it any more?
	A Brother—Because you are bound to re-
gard the peace of the Church. You are
bound to keep it.

[Column 2]
	Mr. See—Jesus said he came not to bring
peace, but a sword.
	Mr. See next alluded to the deliverance
of the General Assembly of 1874 to the ef-
fect that the ministers and elders of each
church must decide for themselves as to
the propriety of women teaching; "and so,"
said he, "on the one side is the Apostolic
injunction to silence, and on the other the
General Assembly says: 'Do as you please.'
Dr. Cuyler's people have done as they
pleased, and my people have done as they
pleased. The whole matter is that the
teaching of Paul was correct and fitting for
his day, but his ministry ended with his
death. The Church of Christ lived through
the ages, and each age must be governed by
its customs. The woman of to-day is diff-
erent in every respect from the woman of
previous days, and the woman of the future
has a yet more glorious destiny before her.
For myself, I had rather die in ignominy
to-night than to yield this point in the least.
My fear is not for myself, but for you, lest
you should cling to the letter that killeth
rather than to the spirit which giveth light.
May God bless you and guide you aright."
	Oliver Johnson, editor of the Orange (N.
J.) Journal makes the following comment:

			BREAKING LOOSE.

	What is coming now, we wonder? A few
years since, the Rev. Dr. Cuyler, of Brook-
lyn was overhauled by his Presbytery upon
complaint of Dr. Vandyke, for allowing Miss
Smiley, the sweet-hearted Quakeress, to
call sinners to the Saviour from his pulpit.
The case, we believe, was taken to the Gen-
eral Assembly, whose utterance upon the
subject was not satisfactory to the com-
plainant. And now behold! here is anoth-
er rebellious minister, the Rev. Mr. See, of
Newark, who, on Sunday, Oct. 29 last, (we
love to preface when such a crime is report-
ed) "did, both in the morning and evening,
introduce females whom he permitted and
encouraged then and there publicly to
preach and teach, being in violation of the
Book of Discipline." The women here re-
ferred to were members of the late Wo-
man's Temperance Convention, whom Mr.
See permitted to occupy his pulpit on that
occasion. They were Mrs. Robinson, of
Indiana, and Mrs. C. S. Whitney, of Hart-
ford, Conn.
	The Presbytery met in Newark on
Wednesday, for the trial of Mr. See. After
some preliminary skirmishing, the com-
plaint was taken up, and Mr. See admitted
the specifications but denied the charge.
The Rev. Dr. Craven, the complainant, then
took the floor and in a two hours speech
presented his side of the question. His
mouth was full of compliments for woman.
Nobody appreciated her noble qualities, her
delicacy, her refinement, her purity and de-
votion more than himself; but inasmuch as
Paul had commanded the ignorant and
newly converted Greek women to be silent
in the churches, when if they had spoken
they would only have brought reproach up-
on the cause, he insisted that women in all
ages however intelligent and well qualified
to present the claims of the gospel and how-
ever wide the demand for their services
and the willingness to hear them might be,
should hold their peace. He felt kindly to-
ward Mr. See, but believed it to be his duty
as a minister of this Presbyterian Church
to resist this innovation of woman's preach-
ing as contrary both to Scripture and the
Standards.
	On Thursday Mr. See defended himself
with power and eloquence. He did not
flinch, but met the question squarely, de-

[Column 3]
claring his belief that God is in this new
departure for Christian women as teachers
and preachers.
	The Presbytery adjourned till Wednes-
day, when it will meet to render its ver-
dict. Meanwhile we have a "little story,"
which we commend to Dr Craven and
those who may be inclined to agree with
him.
	Nearly forty years ago, two Quaker wo-
men, of high Southern birth (Sarah and An-
gelina Grimke), having emancipated their
own slaves, came to the North to plead the
cause of their enslaved sisters before those
of their own sex. They went by invitation
to Massachusetts, where in such vestries,
halls and private houses as in that day could
be procured for such a purpose, they depict-
ed the wrongs and cruelties of the slave
system, as they had witnessed them from
childhood. They produced a powerful im-
pression wherever they went, and at length
the Legislature of the State invited one of
them to speak in their Hall, and attended
the lecture in a body. Those clergymen of
the State who stood guard over slavery
were in a terrible state of dismay in view
of these proceedings, and when the general
Association of Congressional ministers came
together in annual meeting, a Protestant
"bull," framed by the man who afterwards
earned the soubriquet of "South-side
Adams," was promulgated for the purpose
of arresting the evil. This "bull" is the
subject of one of Whittier's stirring lyrics.
	But the nub of our little story is a pen
caricature, drawn at that day by a Quaker's
skillful hand. The picture represents a
crowd of women enclosed by a circular
wall, so high that they could not scale it.
Here and there was a breach, through
which a few were trying to escape. March-
ing around this enclosure was a guard of
men in clerical garb, with guns upon their
shoulders, some of them with the point of
the bayonet, driving back the women who
sought to escape. In the background stood
his Satanic Majesty in his well known uni-
form, and from his mouth escaping this le-
gend: "That's right, my helpers—don't
let 'em out; if you do my cake will be all
dough."
	We commend this bit of history to the
Rev. Dr. Craven and the Newark Presby-
tery.—Woman's Journal.


SAYING HATEFUL THINGS.—What a
strange disposition is that which leads peo-
ple to say "hateful" things for the mere
pleasure of saying them! You are never
safe with such a person. When you have
done your best to please, and are feeling
very kindly and pleasantly, out will come
some underhand stab, which you alone will
comprehend, a sneer which is masked but
which is too well aimed to be misunder-
stood. It may be at your person, your
mental feelings, your foolish habits of
thought, or some little secret opinion con-
fessed in a moment of genuine confidence.
It matters not how sacred it may be to you,
he will have his fling at it; and since the
wish is to make you suffer, he is all the
happier the nearer he touches your heart.
Just have a dozen words, only for the pleas-
ure of feeling a cheek flush, and an eye
lose its brightness; only spoken because he
is afraid you are too happy or too conceited!
Yet they are worse than so many blows.
How many sleepless nights have such mean
attacks caused tender-hearted mortals! How
after them one awakes with aching eyes
and head, to remember that speech before
everything—that bright, sharp, well-aimed
needle of a speech, that probed the very
center of his soul.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CURSE OF THE HOUR.

	There is too much lying. On every hand
we meet with exaggeration, equivocation,
deception. We call it all lying, and every
one who intentionally varies one iota from
the strictest fact and truth, is indeed a liar.
	The expressman agrees to deliver a trunk
for you at a certain place by a certain hour.
He delivers it the day after. The grocer
promises to send you the best tea in the
market. He takes the first he lays his
hands upon without any care for the quality,
and dispatches it to you without a twinge.
The printer promises to do your work
cheaper than it can be done elsewhere in
town. He forgets his promise and charges
what he pleases. The tailor agrees to de-
liver a suit of clothes without fail by six in
the evening. You get them in the morn-
ing. The dentist pledges his word that
your teeth as filled by him will be all right
for a dozen years. The fillings come out
in six months. The man over the way is
in need of a temporary loan. You lend him
a small sum which he promises to return at
given time. He keeps it a month over the
time. An auctioneer tells you that a cer-
tain picture is by a master artist. He lies
and is not worthy of trust. A salesman
lies about his goods. A watch maker about
your watch. The gossiper at the dinner
table tells exaggerated stories to astonish
the ladies. The florist assures you that his
flowers were picked in the morning, when
they are two days old. The book publisher
advertises that his book is selling by the
tens of thousands, when he has not sold a
thousand.
	Everywhere we hear lying, lying, lying.
Men and women, who would knock you
down if you called them liars. Deception
is the rule rather than exception. Canvass-
ers lie about companies. Brokers about
stock. Editors lie about politics. Exagger-
ation and misrepresentation rule the hour,
and are its curse.
	Gentlemen— ladies — why can not the
truth be told always and ever? Why all
this deception and lying? Why so much
falsifying and cheating? In the name of
all that is true and good, we beg of you to
do as you agree!—The Alpha.


CAUSES OF ILL-HEALTH.

	In looking over the Journal of Nov. 4th,
I was saddened by the perusal of an article
on the failing health of Western women;
not believing in Dr. Draper's assertion in
his Physiology, that "Woman is mentally
and physically imperfect," but merely con-
sidering the doctor a second edition of that
impious King Alfonzo of Spain, who said
that if the Almighty had consulted him
when he made the world, he could have
given him some useful hints! It seems to
me there are two idols worshipped by wo-
men, which are the cause of so much mar-
red existence. The first, Fashion that great
Diana of the Parisians, before whom the
world lies prostrate and Woman disabled;
upon her ring of changes trade is kept brisk.
She is remorseless and untiring in her de-
mand, slaying her thousands, while she fills
the coffers of the merchant princes.
	The masterly silence of the physicians
are spoken of, this I think will often be
found a necessity, to cover the uncertainty
and short coming of the profession. This
is the second idol; women at large learn al-
most everything but that which is of the
most vital importance to them, viz: the
knowledge of the "House they live in,"
which is really a captivating study; then,


if from irregular manner of living, insuffi-
cient sleep, lack of needful exercise, er-
rors in clothing, and mechanical restraints
of dress on the free movement of the body,
women are lost to all healthy enjoyment,
they consign themselves, it may be, to the
hands of a strange physician, without in-
quiry even of his antecedents and surround-
ings. Then often it is masterly arrogance
on one side, and ignorant submission on the
other.
	The American Journal of Medical Science
says: "Every thoughtful man who wishes
well to this department, Gynoecology, (dis-
eases of women) must view with concern
the unwise haste with which young practic-
ioners, who have neither time nor oppartu-
nity to acquire experience in general medi-
cine, strive to devote themselves to it."
Perhaps not more than one-tenth of those
who take the two years' courses of lec-
tures in our great rival schools, ever have the
opportunity of practical knowledge in hospi-
tal wards. Huxley's address before the
managers of the John Hopkins University,
it is to be hoped will have a happy influ-
ence in this direction.
	General culture is the remedy for this
gaeat evil. Human Physiology should be
taught in every girl's school, so that moth-
ers may no longer cripple their children
from the cradle.
	Dr. B. W. Richardson, in that admirable
book, "Diseases of Modern Life," says "It
is as if the fashion willed that to be fashion-
able is to be physically disabled."
	In conclusion, shall I offer a quotation
from another physician, Dr. Samuel Bard,
to wit: "I confess, not without severe regret,
that toward the end of thirty years' prac-
tice, I found much less occassion for the
use of instruments than I did in the begin-
ning, and I believe we may certainly con-
clude that the person who, in proportion to
the extent of his practice, meets with the
most frequent occasion for their use, knows
least of the powers of Nature, and that he
who boasts of his skill and success in their
application is a very dangerous man.”
	THEMISTA.
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—Ex.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	A magnificently beautiful meteoric dis-
play was recently witnessed from Jackson-
ville, Ill. Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, Illinois
and Indiana were favored with a sight of
this meteor, which is said by observers to
have surpassed in grandeur anything of the
kind which has ever been seen in this coun-
try. The meteor lighted up the whole
earth and heavens brilliantly, and imparted
a subdued green coloring to the objects on
which the light rested. One singular fea-
ture of the occurrence was that, instead of
coming towards the earth, it passed in a
horizontal direction from west to east. It
was seen first in the west, when it resem-
bled a blazing, burning ball, nearly as large
as the full moon. As it swept along with
its fiery tail it seemed some twenty de-
grees in length, and some ten to twenty
fragments following it. When it reached a
point considerably east of north it burst in-
to from ten to twenty fragments, not unlike
the bursting of a rocket, and these frag-
ments seemed to disappear in a bank of
clouds. From the time the meteor was
first seen in the west till lost sight of in the
east full twenty seconds had elapsed.
	Recently the "San Francisco Chronicle"
described a ball of fire visible in that city,
which fell into the sea. It is stated that
between twelve and one, just after mid-


night, there was visible a peculiar light on
the sand and sea around, and looking up an
immense ball of fire was observed descend-
ing to the earth. Its course was rapid and
the mass fell into the sea about half a mile
from shore; it made a loud hissing noise,
followed by a sharp explosion. The com-
bustion occasioned by the immense velocity
with which the object traveled through the
atmosphere remained visible for about two
minutes. From the brilliancy and area of
fire surrounding the splash by the sudden
immersion in the water, it is conjectured
the aerolite must have been of immense
size. The number of meteors lately visible
have called the attention of scientific per-
sons to the cause; there is much diversity
of opinion regarding the nature and origin
of these aerolites. The two most widely
accepted is that they are bodies of the
planetary system that have come near
enough to be acted upon by the orbits. A
great many aerolites have been found and
many are in the different scientific institu-
tions in the world. The largest of which
there is any authentic record was found by
a Swedish Arctic Expedition in 1870, on
the west coast of Greenland. It weighs 25
tons, and is now at the Royal Academy at
Stockholm. The opinion most generally
conceded for the great number of meteors
which have appeared of late is that the
earth is passing through a belt of aerolite.


WORDSWORTH SNUBS CHARLES
				MACKAY.

	Wordsworth gave Charles Mackay a cu-
rious interview. "He suddenly said, 'I
am told that you write poetry. I never
read a line of your poems, and don't in-
tend.' I suppose I looked surprised at the
apparent rudeness of this," says Mackay,
"for he went on to say—'You must not be
offended with me; the truth is, I never read
anybody's poetry but my own.' Again I
suppose that my face must have expressed
what I certainly felt—a slight degree of
wonder at a declaration which I thought so
very gratuitous. 'You must not be sur-
prised,' he added, 'for it is not vanity that
makes me say this. I am an old man, and
little time is left me in the world. I use
that little as well as I may, to revise all my
poems carefully, and make them as perfect
as I can before I take my final departure.'
It was qnite evident from the frankness of
the explanation that the old gentleman did
not mean to wound my self-love while ex-
plaining and vindicating his own; and I
could bnt take in good part the confidence
he had reposed in me. Desiring to turn
the conversation, I stopped a moment in
our walk to admire the outline of the pic-
turesque mountain across the lake, and
pointing to it, asked him its name. 'Dear
me!' he replied, 'that's Nab Scaur. Have
you never read my poems?' It was on the
tip of my tongue to retort that I never read
anybody's poems but my own; bnt I reflect-
ed that he was old enough to be my grand-
father, and not only that, but how untrue
the statement would have been. So I re-
frained, and listened attentively as he spoke—
'I have described Nab Scaur more than
once in my poems. Don't you remember
the following?" And here he recited; in a
deep bass voice, a passage of twenty or
thirty lines which was entirely new to me,
though I did not like to tell him so."


﻿An illiterate correspondent, who is given
to sporting, wants to know when the "Ang-
la-Saxon race," so much talked about, is to
come off?


136		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Professor C. Voit, in a lecture at the "Public,"
held at Munich, remarked the weight of the body
has often been assumed as an infallible proof of
the maintenance of the conditions of the body, or
of a deposition of tissue, and the food which
keeps up a man's weight as, on that account, suf-
ficiently nutritious. But the weight of the body
is no criterion of the value of the food taken, be-
cause while the weight remains constant, or even
increases, water may increase in the tissues and
albumen and fat diminish; or there may be an in-
increase of weight and doposition of fat, while
there is also at the same time a diminution of the
albumen of the body. Badly nourished people
are usually not lighter than others, but their bodies
contain more water and less albumen and fat than
those who are well nourished.
	Digestion.—Food is most thoroughly digested
when taken early in the day; ere the nervous and
secretive forces are exhausted by toil. Rapid di-
gestion in the early part of the day contributes to
the immediate demands of motion and enervation.
Food for the repair of the continuous wear and
tear of the tissues is in less immediate request,
and it is best taken towards the evening, when an
opportunity is afforded for its leisurely absorption
during sleep. Rest before meals makes digestion
more complete. Exertion immediately before
meals retards digestion, and exertion immediately
after deranges it. Sleep retards digestion but
makes it more complete. Alchohol renders diges-
tion slow and incomplete. Earnest pre-occupation
of mind retards digestion and may even annul it.
Water quickens digestion and encourages the ab-
sorption of fatty and saccharine matters; but its
effect on the complete solution of albumen is doubt-
ful.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Cheap Pudding.—One quarter of a pound each
of currants, flour and suet, two ounces of sugar,
two spoonfuls of molasses, one teacupful of milk,
season with lemon or other flavoring, boil it in a
basin for three hours.
	Veal Salad.—Take a fine leg of veal, and put it
in water enough to simmer until it is perfectly ten-
der; remove the bones, chop it small, season it as
the chicken salad with parsley celery and so on.
Make some gravy with milk, take two tablespoon-
fuls of corn starch to blend with the milk, add a
raw egg well beaten, pour this over the pudding
and stir it well.
	Potted or Spiced Meat.—Remove all gristle,
hard pieces and fat from cold roast or boiled beef,
or remnants of tongue or ham; mince it very fine
and pound it in a mortar with a little butter or
gravy and a spoonful of good Worcester sauce;
season it during the pounding process with ground
cloves, or cinnamon, or allspice, mace, or grated
nutmeg, salt and pepper, a little cayenne; put it
into jars and press it close down for some time.
	Bread Pudding.—Take about two ounces of
bread, half a pint of milk, one egg, half a cup of
sugar; heat the milk boiling hot, pour it over the
bread, let it stand until well soaked, then stir in
the egg and sugar well beaten, with grated nut-
meg or other flavoring, and bake or steam it.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's JAMAICA GINGER,
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from
	native Ore, Door Mats, Toy Table and
		Spool Stands, Sole Leather and
			other Trunks, Gents' Fine Shirts
				and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
					Table Salt, Band Boxes
						and Dixie Cotton.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		ALL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

