VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1876		NO. 12.


For the Exponent.
				OBEDIENCE.

	How holy the joys from obedience springing,
	Eternity's treasures unfolding to view,
	New songs of salvation God's people are singing,
	Renewing their vows to be faithful and true.

	Yes; those who are truly God's kingdom adorning,
	 Will part in the First Resurrection obtain,
	Arising immortal on that happy morning,
	Like Joseph the prophet, with Jesus to reign.

	Love, virtue and peace in these homes are united,
	Angels rejoice when they minister there,
	Come let us press on since all are invited,
	And strive by obedience these blessings to share.

	Welcome to us, then the trials which heaven,
	In wisdom dispensing our pathways surround,
	Faithful and true till the promise is given,
	Which the righteous may claim, may we ever be
		found.
							ELLEN H. WALLACE.
Salt Lake City.


[COLUMN 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN AS MANAGERS OF
BUSINESS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	Order, thou eye of action! wanting thee,
	Wisdom works hoodwink'd in perplexity;
	Entangled reason trips at every pace,
	And truth, bespotted, puts on error's face.
		AARON HILL. 
	Many inferences are drawn in relation to
women as practical and methodical mana-
gers in business affairs. It seems the world
are only just becoming conscious that wo-
men possess the faculties to qualify them to
adjust such matters as relate in a general
way to the commonplace transactions, by
which trade and commerce are carried on.
The idea is a novel one, to some who have
not been cognizant of the growing status of
woman in relation to finance, and when any
phenomena in illustration of the fact of wo-
man's practicability clearly elucidates itself,
men open their eyes in wonder, and imme-
diately set their wits to work to solve the
problem in some exceptional way, instead
of attributing it to the real genius or inher-
ent qualities of woman's competency. It
seems perfectly consistent that women
should be able to arrange and carry out sys-
tematically and effectively plans of action
which would operate successfully in business
affairs. The many phases of woman's house-
hold work require order, method, prompt-
ness and executive ability; if women did
not understand, by habit and intuition, the
easiest, quickest and best modes of dispatch,
they could never bring quiet, peace and
harmony to the domestic habitation. How
much careful study, thought and practice
are brought into requisition by the compli-
cation of circumstances which every house-
hold develops. All these different entan-
glements by being unraveled, smoothed
and harmonized teach useful lessons, which
to the woman who knows how to apply the
knowledge she gains, so as to make it a
means to an end, works out or solves the
great problem of commercial interests by
the application of her own private expe-
rience in domestic economy. Who is there
that has to practise more thorough disci-
pline, or be more accurate in management
than the woman who is supervisor of her

[COLUMN 2]

own household affairs? The work which
devolves upon the mother and wife requires
the most perfect method in arranging so as
to ensure any degree of home-comfort, and
it will bring to its aid tact, energy and
skill, in order to evoke an organization com-
plete in the fulfilment.
	Then through this very process do women
become initiated into the very channels
which are the most available for the trans-
action of business; their capacities expand
with their facilities for action, and the very
elements which bring to the home circle the
genius of an inspiration for making every-
thing adaptable are those which will best
assist women in the transaction of affairs
which will eventually help them to estab-
lish industries and manufacturies for the
general interest of communities.
	The arrangement of family and house-
hold affairs requires as nice order and meth-
od, as does the management of a store, or
an office. In this respect there would no
doubt be as much difference in women, as
there is in men, and probably no more.
The woman who is not prompt and ener-
getic, is not the one who will succeed in
business, and in any and all of the private
walks in life will always cause more or less
confusion, dissatisfaction and dislikes. She
consumes the time of others and gives them
reason for thinking that she looks upon them
as not of sufficient consequence to make her
punctual; method is the soul of business;
and order in every and all departments of
business, or of life, is one of the most im-
portant matters to be impressed upon man
or woman. Pope says:
		"Order is heaven's first law; and this confess'd,
		Some are, and must be, greater than the rest."
	We often hear it said, that "to the busi-
ness man, time is money," and to the busi-
ness woman time is money, and so is
method.
	That there are women who look upon
their time as of very little consequence there
is no doubt, but are there not thousands of
men who waste their own time and that of
others in a more shameful and wicked man-
ner than women do? One need not go far
to prove this assertion; here on the corners
of the streets, in the stores, the saloons, the
hotels, on fences, steps, everywhere that
there is room enough for a knot of men to
collect, they are in the habit of gathering
to talk, smoke and so forth. There are
some who never seem to do anything else.
Men are very fond of saying women get to-
gether (even in their meetings) to gossip
and backbite, but in the name of common
sense, what do so many men huddle togeth-
er in little caucauses at the corners of streets,
etc., for? To discuss politics and the state
of the government, and a variety of other
interesting topics, so they say; but in my
opinion they would be doing the world a
great favor by going to work; and if they
cannot find any other employment, they
could help their wives, sisters or mothers
to cook their food and tend the babies, for
women not only never have any idle time,
but are often worked beyond their strength.
	There are a few individuals who summer
and winter may be seen loitering around
corners; wherever the sun shines in winter,
and where there is a shade in summer; how

[COLUMN 3]

they get their living is a mystery. Such
men are not capacitated for business of any
sort, any more than women who have not
been disciplined in habits of industry, tact,
accuracy and punctuality; yet they are men,
and they can vote, and discuss politics, and
carry the world on their shoulders, figura-
tively speaking, that is one might imagine
so to hear them talk.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ABOUT ONE hundred specimens of an-
cient pottery, which were dug up in the
State of Missouri have been recently presen-
ted to the Museum of Yale College. It is sup-
posed they are about 2,000 years old. In
our opinion this is another testimony to
substantiate the validity of the Book of
Mormon.
	THE EMPEROR of Brazil is about to pub-
lish a book of travels. The first volume,
now finished, contains an account of his tour
through the United States. It will be pub-
lished in December in Paris. Although
written in Portugese, it has been translated
into English, French and German.
	THE SALE of the Old South Church in
Boston, which has been so much talked of
by the women of that city, has at last been
formally completed. The purchaser, Mr.
B. M. Pulsifer, gave a bond to the commit-
tee of ladies which if they raise the money
within a reasonable time will entitle them
to a deed of the property.
	THERE WAS a reception given to the Wo-
man's Congress which recently assembled
in Philadelphia by the Woman's Centennial
Committee. The affair was to all intents
and purposes a brilliant one of its kind,
and yet without any ostentation or display,
even in the matter of dress. Everything
being arranged with simplicity and ele-
gance. It is much to the credit of all wo-
men that this extraordinary occasion, for
an example, furnishes one incident notice-
able, and which, it is greatly to be hoped,
will be extensively imitated elsewhere; it
is this, there was no wine upon the table.
	AN OLD CUSTOM.—This season, the cere-
mony of opening the Nile, near Cairo,
Egypt, took place in the presence of the
principal ministers and officials and several
thousand persons. The ceremony is held
when the river attains a certain height.
An opening is cut to admit its fertilizing
waters to the numerous canals spread all
over lower Egypt. The effigy, of a woman
in gorgeous apparel, and bedecked with
jewelry, is floated down the stream, and
money is distributed to the natives present,
in token of the riches and abundance that
will result wherever the Nile flows.


LEAVES seem light, and useless, and idle,
and wavering, and changeable—they even
dance; yet God has made them part of the
oak. In so doing, he has given us a lesson,
not to deny the stout-heartedness within,
because we see the lightsomeness without.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Oct. 28, was well attended. The
minutes read on that occasion from the dif-
ferent societies deserve praise; they were
full of wise and choice remarks from the
young members of the different or-
ganizations. The blessing, which have al-
ready accrued from these institutions can-
not be estimated. President Mrs. M. I
Horne spoke upon the grain question princi-
pally, suggesting to the sisters the propriety
of entering into some understanding that
would facilitate the accomplishment of the
object. Counselors E. R. Snow and Sarah
M. Kimball both spoke on this subject and
other general ones—the principles of eter-
nal life, the increase and multiplicity of
cares and burdens; said that those who were
not living in the line of their duty would
scarcely be able to endure all that was laid
upon them to bear. Counselor E. Howard
spoke in reference to her recent journey
among the Relief Societies, and the great
desire they manifested to hear instruction,
and the courtesy shown by Bishops and pre-
siding men in the places she visited. Coun-
selor B. W. Smith spoke of the woman's
store, of the great good to be derived from
an institution of home manufactures; if
carried out upon a systematic plan for the 
public weal.

WALLSBURG, WASATCH CO., Oct 31st.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Friday, Sept. 29, we had a pleasant
visit from Sisters E. Howard and E. S. Bar-
ney, who, by their teachings and instruc-
tion, greatly encouraged the sisters of this
little burg. Our Relief Society is in a
flourishing condition, and a majority of the
sisters are trying to live their religion.
	Wishing success to every enterprise for
the good of Zion, and the blessings of God
to attend you in your labors, as well as all
who are working for the spread of truth,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel,
	NANCY WALL, President,
		SARAH GLENN, Secretary.


[COLUMN 1]

BE CONSISTENT.
	The young are very apt to think that
mothers and aunts want to lecture them;
somehow even the boys are more on the
look-out for these prosy little side thrusts in
the form of advice from elderly women,
than from the fathers, uncles, or elder bro-
thers. One would naturally imbibe the
idea from these grounds that it was woman's
province to check, and restrain, and tone
down, through this lecturing process, the
extremes into which the young are apt to
be led. I love dearly to give little im-
promptu lectures to the young whenever I
get an opportunity, somehow it seems nat-
ural, although it may not be always pleas-
ant for the young folks. Many of them
run away from long sermons, and they never
read long articles on any of the subjecis
which are essential for them to understand,
so it is absolutely necessary for some one to
take them in hand and tell them in some
inadvertent manner, of their inconsisten-
cies.
	I do not know whether to address girls or
boys in this article (I'll try and make it
brief); they both need training, they get so
many false ideas of life, its duties and re-
sponsibilities. There are so many of them
that get the impression that when they are

[COLUMN 2]

older, and especially if they marry, they'll
find a balm for every wound, and that, like
the hero or heroine of a romance, the
troubles are all ended, and there will be not
more need of exertion to make onesself hap-
py, for bliss supreme will be the crowning
portion of married life.
	Now we would not for the world shatter
your little castle of fairy splendor, nor dim
its lustrous brilliancy, but we would only
ask you to be thoroughly consistent with
yourself and see whether you have so disci-
plined yourself in body and mind as to fit
you to fill a sphere more advanced than the
one in which you are now graded. Every
step we take higher requires careful prepa-
ration, and attention to its higher laws, just
as surely as does preferment in a school.
Our whole life is symbolical of a school; it
may well be termed one. True marriage is
a rank above single life, and is indeed to be
desired, but do not think for one moment
that you will not need to exercise all your
faculties to render you competent to fill
this higher position; just so surely as you
enter it without careful consideration of all
it involves, and a correct understanding of
its being another prolific source of manifold
developments, so surely will you have to
feel the sting of disappointment.
	If you have heretofore been nursed in
the lap of indulgence, and had every desire
of your childish heart gratified, then be-
fore you take into your keeping the affection
and welfare of either a husband, or wife,
pause—for you must be prepared to exer-
cise self-denial—school yourself well in this,
if you would not shed many bitter tears of
sorrow, if not remorse, when you find the
one to whom you have given so much (your
dear untutored self) requires you to be con-
sistent.
	My dear girls, don't think I am overdraw-
ing the picture. There is a way to be hap-
py, certainly, but that girl who marries to
become more happy, who does not know
how to create happiness in her father's house
is but illy prepared to make it in her new
and untried sphere. Cultivate all those
graces of mind and character that are en-
durable, not the "arts and wiles that charm"
but the solid and sterling qualities which
enhance the value of every good and true
woman, and are a more precious dower to
bring to the marriage altar than the wealth
of Croesus.
	I do not say men or women are to blame,
but that many erroneous ideas are entertained
on this subject; girls are very apt to think,
and they are not in fault, custom has taught
them, that their husbands must overlook all
their imperfections and weaknesses, that the
very fact of maternity is sufficient to entitle
them to all compassion and sympathy; but
how is it? Women find themselves totally
unqualified to enter upon these arduous du-
ties, which come perhaps almost unawares
upon them, and then they are ready enough
to come to mother, or aunt, or some good
friend they have proved, for advice and
comfort. Thank God for the advancement
of knowledge and wisdom and light upon
these subjects; that mothers have at last
realized the necessity of training their
daughters to comprehend the high and holy
offices of wife and motherhood.
	The idea that marriage of itself is to lift a
woman all at once above the necessity of
exertion, and that through this means one
obtains ease and happiness, cannot too soon
be dispelled, for such a delusion is sure to
result in unhappiness, domestic discomfort
and wretchedness, if not divorce. These
feelings are entirely incompatible with or-
dinary marriage relations. It is doubtless
owing to the false notions of complete and

[COLUMN 3]

perfect wedded bliss that there has been of
late years so many suits for divorce, and so
much dissatisfaction in the married state;
and much of this is owing to the excess of
novel reading, sensational and extravagant,
diametrically opposed to common sense
ideas. This generation profess great wis-
dom and enlightenment, and science is
making rapid strides, and one fancies that
mankind are approaching very near to per-
fection in many things, but there is still a
great deal to be guessed at in regard to the
assimilation of human nature in man and
woman. And no doubt while we live on
the earth we shall always have need of char-
ity for each other's shortcomings and incon-
sistencies. But if we can save young peo-
ple from any excess or error, which our ex-
perience has taught us to avoid, if they can
be induced to steer clear of breakers which
have wrecked those who had not been pru-
dently and carefully trained, let us do so
in all earnestness. And to the young peo-
ple we would say, look life straight in the
face and do not expect too much, but bear
in mind that every person is the architect
of the structure which surrounds life with
beauty, gladness and peace, or with misery
and squalor. If one wishes to build well,
let him carefully observe the architecture of
others, and cautiously lay a firm foundation
first, afterwards ornamenting and adorning,
and remember that it requires patience,
will and energy to complete any arduous
undertaking. In every part or portion of
life one essential item is strength, which
gives a firm support. However beautiful any
edifice may be, however charming any idea
or principle, if it lacks strength it is liable
to fall. Then, my dear young friends,
strengthen your lives by the development
of all the substantial qualities of head and
heart; and, girls, do not forget that mother
has had an experience which qualifies her
to give you just that counsel that will help
you to govern and control your ofttime
restlessness, and moderate your inconsis-
tencies.
	AUNT EM.


REFINEMENT.

	Refinement is not fastidiousness. It is
not luxury. It is nothing of this kind. It
is far removed from excess or waste. A
person truly refined will not squander or
needlessly consume anything. Refinement,
on the contrary, is always allied to simplic-
ity and a judicious and tasteful employ-
ment of the means of good and happiness
which is at command. It seeks to divest
itself of superfluities and aspires continu-
ally to the utmost purity. Refinement
leads to personal cleanliness and elegant
neatness, good taste and simplicity in dress.
All "loudness" or "flashiness" is repugnant
to its spirit. In its home and surroundings
—whether palatial, affluent, or humble—
the same chasteness and natural grace are
maintained. The abode of genuine refine-
ment and a mere pretender to it, are very
different. In the former you will find no
excess, gaudiness or false glittering; but the
latter abounds in it. In personal manner,
refinement is most conspicuous. A man of
refinement is always polite without flourish,
gentle without effeminacy, and considerate
without stiffness. Display and ceremony
are not identical with refinement and are
poor substitutes for it. There is, of course,
no refinement like that of the heart, which
impels its possessor to show on all occasions
a thoughtful and kindly regard for the feel-
ings of others. No adherence to etiquette
can compare with it for the spontaneous ob-
servation of true and gratifying politeness.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent
AARON'S ROD.

Hist! Jehovah speaks! Moses, his servant,
With his brother Aaron, bend to listen
To that voice, from which love had cast out fear—
They, waiting to receive, and then obey
The mandates from the voice of God:
"Lo! a miracle will Pharaoh ask of thee—
Then say to Aaron, take thy rod, and cast
It down before King Pharaoh's feet, and lo!
It shall become a serpent, 'neath his gazing eye."

Enthroned sits Pharaoh, servants waiting round,
When lo! the servants of a higher King,
A greater Potentate—but drop at once
All vain comparison, where none can be!
The servants of the God of earth and heaven,
The King of kings and Lord of Lords, present
Themselves before proud Egypt's king,
Bearing an edict from that God he brav'd,
But which he cannot with impunity resist.
No pompous forms, or courtly etiquette
Precede these men of God! but prompt to do,
surely and simply, the bidding of their King.
With brow serene, and calm, majestic mien
The brother of Moses, Aaron, lifts his arm,
Nerv'd with the Spirit of the living God!
And hurls his rod before King Pharaoh's eyes;
E'en that proud, stubborn spirit quails before
The mighty reptile springing into life
From out the mystic rod that left his hand;
To spring to life, alone its mission seemed,
And there it lay before king Pharaoh's eye,
And the eyes of Pharaoh's servants, alive:
A living, panting, breathing, monster thing,
Waiting the mission it was sent to fill
Then rose the passionate, wicked, daring king,
And called his sorcerers and his wisest men,
Magicians of proud Egypt's magic realm,
And bade them use their cabalistic charms;
In like manner, they with their enchantments,
Cast down, every man to earth, his rod;
When lo! they sprang to life, and serpents they
	became.
Marvelous power of infernal art!
The mind can scarcely grasp the horror
Such a scene could throw around, and cause
The stoutest heart and eye to shake and quail.
Pharaoh exults, and feels his art equals
The God of Moses, and of Aaron too.
But wait! not long has he for exultation
Before that serpent God has sent, by him
Chosen and ordained, and fitted by Himself
To show His wonders to the world of men,
The mighty reptile opens wide his jaws
And swallows up the puny worms around!
That God still lives! His servants live to serve
His bidding, and to work His will; and He
Again has spoken, in these latter times,
And in another dispensation—Yes,
Pharaohs still are on the earth, and Moses
And his brother Aaron also have their types
Upon this earth of God! Yes, blessed truth!
Holy writ abounds in types and parables—
And in my simple mind a thought springs up,
Which takes a form embodied, palpable—
I see with Daniel's eye—or rather,
Reading him, I drink into his spirit,
And clearly see that in the Latter days
A kingdom shall arise, and stand forever!
And that it shall consume and break in pieces
All other kingdoms, as the rod of Aaron
Which became a living thing that swallow'd up
The counterparts and counterfeits of Satan.
So shall the last days' work gather up
All things in One, and that One shall be Eternal,
	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City.


[COLUMN 1]

WOMEN IN LITERATURE.

	The above heading is that of an article
in "The Woman's Journal" of Oct. 28th,
read at the recent Woman's Congress. We
have copied a few scattering paragraphs
from it as illustrative of our own ideas on
the subject. The article in its complete
form is an excellent one, is highly interest-
ing and contains many excellent sugges-
tions, and plain and truthful statements in
relation to the subject.

	Through all the ages, exceptional women
have been poets, historians and novelists.
But if we look back only for thirty years,
we will realize that it is only in our own

[COLUMN 2]

generation that women have obtained a rec-
ognized and a thoroughly respected posi-
tion in literature. The term "blue stock-
ing" applied to all women who used the
pen, did not lose its sting until a very re-
cent period. And it was more than hinted
that such women not only had ink-blacked
fingers, uncombed hair, and slipshod feet,
but that they must necessarily be neglect-
ful of all recognized womanly duties.
	Thirty years ago there were two or three
woman editors in the world. To-day there
are scores of them; while reporters and spec-
ial correspondents of the same sex are like
daisies of the field for multitude.
	The field of literature is conquered for
women. There are no longer bars or ob-
structions of any sort in the way. A wo-
man who has anything to say, is privileged
to say it; and if it is worth hearing, the
world will lend an attentive ear.
	Women also tell us that because they are
wives and mothers they have neither time
nor opportunity, What folly! Have not our
best women-writers been wives and moth-
ers? And are not our men-writers husbands
and fathers? If they are not they should be, if
they would gain the clearest, truest percep-
tion of human affairs, so that they may be
qualified to speak words of wisdom to the
world.
	First of all it will be well to disabuse wo-
men in general, of their erroneous ideas
concerning a literary career. A woman
must not expect to find any play when she
adopts literature for a profession. A prac-
tical writer leads a life of BONA FIDE drud-
gery. She may, now and then, find her pet
poems, or finely written stories or essays, ac-
cepted and paid for; but if she would make
an actual living of the business she mnst
devote herself to it, just as she would to 
dress-making or dish-washing.  The profes-
sional writer must compel the inspiration,
or write without it.  A woman who writes
for a living must hold herself in readiness
at any time and at all times. She must be
ready to write upon any subject, and in any
style. She must send a poem by return
mail, if required; or write up a whole geo-
graphical division, without previous knowl-
edge of it, and with nothing but a guide-
book and a dictionary of dates for referen-
ces; and yet have her article interesting,
and read as if unlimited information was
withheld solely for want of space. If she
be a reporter, she must be able to write on
the wing, and in the midst of crowds and
confusion, which would bewilder the intel-
ligence of either the ordinary man or wo-
man. If she be a correspondent she must
be at her pen, headache or no headache, when
her more favored companions are resting
from the fatigues of journeying or sight-
seeing. She cannot afford to be either
wearied or ill until after the inevitable let-
ter has been written and posted.
	Next to be considered is the kind of
training a woman needs. She must have
had experience in life. Without it she will
have nothing of value to offer. We never
learn from the experience of others as we
do from our own.	There-
fore until we shall have had a moral, emo-
tional or intellectual history, we can have
little to say worth hearing.

	There is no trade or profession which re-
quires so long practice before it becomes re-
munerative as that of literature. A wo-
man would have time to learn any manual
occupation twice, while she is preparing
herself for a frequently doubtful, and al-
ways precarious career in literature; I am
speaking absolute truth; and I wish every

[COLUMN 3]

woman who has founded false hopes on her
pen, might hear and heed me. There
would be fewer disappointed women in con-
sequence.
	After all this is surmounted, comes the
next difficulty. Has the woman anything
to say? Has she any fresh earnest thoughts
of her own, that the world will care to
hear? Or has she the happy faculty of ab-
sorbing, assimilating, combining and popu-
larizing the abstract and abstruse thoughts
of others? If she can say yes to any and all
of these questions then God speed her.
	Granted that a woman possesses the in-
tellectual culture, the practical experience
with the pen, and ideas; now comes the last
question; does she feel an irrepressible de-
sire to write? Can fancied want of time
prevent her? Do difficulties of any sort
hinder her? Can discouragement daunt
her? If so the crown of authorship was
never destined to rest upon her brow. If
she is inclined to fritter away her time in
trifles, let her fritter it away—her vocation
is not writing. If she is not actuated by a
powerful overwhelming impulse to write—
an impulse which will not be denied, and
which causes her thoughts to rest upon her
like undesirable burdens, which can only
be shaken off by the aid of the pen—and
which compels her to commit them to pa-
per in spite of every obstacle—she has not
the strength of character, and the fervor of
inspiration, which indicate that writing is
her especial undoubted vocation. The writ-
er will write and must write. Denial, ob-
stacles, difficulties, hindrances, only devel-
op more strongly the power which accumu-
lated behind them,
	Those are the men and the women to
whom the angel says "write" and when
they have written, the world will gladly
read what they have to say.
	E. B. DUFFEY.


Among the anecdotes of George Sands
with which the Paris papers have been re-
cently filled, the following is quite piquant.
"In the modest dwelling at Nohant, where
she died, her hospitality was not more deli-
cate than ample, and it not unfrequently
happened that a guest arrived and made
himself at home without having any claim
upon the author of "Mauprat" stronger
than the friendly commendation of an ac-
quaintance. One day such a visitor arrived
—call him Bakor—and from the moment he
crossed the threshold comported himself
with altogether Egyptian ease. He was
passionately addicted to cabbage, and in-
structed the cook to prepare for dinner on
the day of his arrival an immense dish of
that vegetable, which he conscientiously
devoured. Next day there was cabbage in
the soups and cabbage in the stew, and by
the third day the whole culinary depart-
ment, was conducted on the basis of cab-
bage. The mistress of the household, not a
little surprised, made inquiries, and dis-
covered that M. Bakor was responsible for
the revolution. After a week's stay, the
guest announced his intention of departing,
and just before starting waited upon his
hostess to present his respects. He found
her in the garden—the kitchen garden.
'Madame,' he said, 'may I not hope that,
after having been the guest of so distin-
guished an entertainer, I shall not be suf-
fered to depart without a souvenir of the
visit?' Madame Sands looked at him with
surprise; and then, inspired with a wicked
idea, called the gardener—'Baptiste!' The
gardener hastened to her. 'With pleasure,'
she said to M. Bakor; adding to the gar-
dener, 'Baptiste, one of your finest cab-
bages, for this gentleman.


92		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULU GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15, 1876.


TEMPORAL SALVATION.

	The above phrase has been quite a hobby
with many practical people in this church and
kingdom. Now the attention of, at least the
women of this people, is called to the subject
of a temporal salvation in a real and tangible
form: the buying and saving of grain. Do not
neglect the opportunity of commencing in this
enterprise if you would preserve yourselves
and families from want. Whatever the future
has in store the contemplation of it will be
more satisfactory to every prudent, far-seeing
person, if there is a good supply of the needful
on hand in the form of breadstuff.
	Whatever lack there may be, there is none
to equal the scarcity of the food which strength-
ens and imparts life. If history repeats itself,
which wise men aver, and the masses of man-
kind believe, then somewhere in the future, as
in the past, will famine with all her train of
attendant miseries and consequences, spread
blight and desolation in her path.
	This people were driven out beyond the
boundaries of civilization by the hands of their
enemies, but God works in a mysterious man,
ner, and who knows, but even as Joseph was
sold into Egypt by wicked and false brethren,
yet eventually it proved their salvation, and
he their temporal savior, to preserve them and
all their father's household from starvation by
famine; even so, perhaps, may the Lord prove
His watchcare over this people, by giving to
them the opportunity of heaping coals of fire
on the heads of those who sought to betray
them into the power of savages and wild
beasts.
	It has been prophesied, scores of times, to
different ones of the Latter-day Saints, that
their relatives and friends who cast them out
and scorned them, should yet come begging
for bread; then be wise, and prepare yourselves
with bread in abundance to feed the hungry.
It is something that will always be marketable
and there is little danger of its becoming a
drug in the market even should there be plen-
tiful harvests in the future for seven years to
come; surely there is as much faith and confi-
dence in the word of the Lord now, as there
was in the days of the Egyptians.
	The sisters have had the opportunity given
them to lead out in this noble work; let it not
be said they lack ability or ingenuity to devise
methods of action. [handwritten] E. B. WELLS


STORE UP GRAIN.

	AT THE regular General Retrenchment
meeting, held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, Saturday Nov. 11, the subject of
arrangements in regard to the Grain Question
now being agitated, was brought before the


meeting. Counselor E. R. Snow, who was
presiding over the meeting in the absence of
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, proposed that
the officers of the several Relief Socities act
in the capacity of a committee to collect means
to buy and store up grain; that besides these
committees of separate organizations in order
to facilitate the work, there should also be a
Central Committee for counsel and reference
and to take cognizance of all these grain mat-
ters, that there might be perfect order and a
united movement for the universal good of all
interested. She read a communication from
Bishop R. W. Burton in respect to storing the
grain in the General Tithing Office. The dif-
ferent wards that have not suitable storehouses
can store their grain there, but will be expect-
ed to attend to the arrangement themselves, as
the hands employed there have no spare time.
	Miss E. R. Snow proposed to the assembly,
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, as chairman of the
Central Committee; no objection being made,
the motion was seconded and carried unani-
mously. It was then moved that the chair-
man choose a committee of two to act with her
in this capacity constituting the Central Com-
mittee; accordingly Miss Eliza R. Snow and
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith were selected and
the unanimous vote of the assembly given to
sustain them.
	It is not possible for too much to be said on
this important subject to inspire zeal and ear-
nest efforts in the matter; and let every exer-
tion be made to secure grain immediately. The
business demands careful thought and consid-
eration, for it is one that involves great conse-
quences. That God will impart to his daugh-
ters great wisdom to aid them in this vast and
noble enterprise is our earnest and humble
prayer.
	The Central Committee will expect to be
kept posted in regard to the proceedings of the
different ward committees, as also of the ar-
rangements in the country places, that there
may be a concert of action, which will give
power and strength to this unparalleled move-
ment, and a complete system of management.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE.

	The Relief Society Mercantile Association
have established a house for transacting busi-
ness in all home products and manufactures
on altogether a different basis to any other
here, or of which we have any knowledge. It
is considered by all practical persons, some-
thing requiring wisdom and experience, as well
as capital, to enter upon any mercantile busi-
ness transaction and make it successful; but to
do this without capital and without any ap-
propriation being made, to take hold of it
earnestly and without any expectation of re-
muneration, is something that would seem
entirely inconsistent to any one except a Lat-
ter-day Saint; and that women are found ready
to step forward, and for the sake of establish-
ing a principle which they believe will develop
into the ultimate good of the community, give
their time and ability to this work and keep
themselves, seems no more nor less than a mir-
acle. At any rate, it proves the devotion and
self-sacrifice of women to a very great degree.
When men go into business of almost any sort,
they anticipate, at least, a certain percentage
for their time and labor; but this store is be-
ing established to create a fund to sustain
itself: meantime, those who work for its wel-
fare are working for the Institution without
money and without price. This is certainly
laboring for the building up of Zion. The sis-
ters have commenced by selling goods on com-
mission, and it is to be hoped this people will
sustain the movement of this united effort,
both by their custom and influence.


"OUR OWN."

	Inasmuch as our kind readers were informed
concerning the coming of our little daughter,
it seems appropriate that they should also be
made acquainted with the event of her depart-
ure.
	Mary Greene Richards, our "Household
Treasure," left her earthly home for a safer
and better one, on Monday, the 6th inst., about
half past 10 p. m.. a brief illness with scarlet
fever being the occasion. She was two years,
four months and eleven days old.
	It is not our object in making this announce-
ment, to excite the sympathy of friends.
Rather would we offer words of consolation to
those who mourn and grieve.
	A short time ago, for parents to bury their
little ones, seemed to us among the most try-
ing and terrible things that commonly occur.
But in passing through the ordeal, a new gleam
of the true Gospel light seems to have beamed
upon our understanding. The Lord in great
mercy has sent to us, the Holy Ghost, the
Comforter. It now appears to us, that the
Latter-day Saints, with the knowledge they
have, and may have by seeking it, should
cease to think and speak of these things as
great misfortunes and irreparable losses; and
rather regard them as the dealings of an al-
wise God, Whose hand must be confessed in
all things. We have not lost our little girl.
She is safe in the best possible keeping. And
if we remain faithful and worthy of her pure
remembrance, we know she will sweetly and
patiently await our coming. We shall receive
her again, not only in spirit but, in the morn-
ing of the First Resurrection, the same beloved
and lovely little form which now rests in the
quiet grave, will come forth, filled with glory
and immortality and eternal life.
	Oh priceless hope! Oh sweetest, best assur-
ance! Mothers, our pure, bright gifts from
God, our precious babies, our treasures, our
darlings—although they slip away from our
clinging embraces and leave our arms all
empty for a time—are still OUR OWN.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG and party left
Salt Lake City Wednesday morning, Nov. 1,
enroute for St. George, and arrived at their des-
tination Friday evening, Nov. 10, all well and
having had a pleasant journey. The President
designs spending the winter in St. George.
	NO POSITIVE conclusion has been arrived
at as yet in regard to the presidential election.
It is one of the closest contests known. It is
impossible now to guess how the scale will turn.
As Utah has no voice in the matter she will
not in this crisis be able to render the country
any service, but should Utah become a State
her bearing would be a noticeable one, for her
people are united and they would by their con-
centrated efforts be a strong power for the side
they espoused.
	THE WOMEN of Utah are about to publish
a book representing them truthfully in the
past and present; this book will contain
many interesting incidents connected with the


[Column 1]
lives of different individuals who have been
extensively engaged in establishing and as-
sisting in building up, the church and king-
dom of God, and carrying out the sacred prin-
ciples and ordinances given by divine revela-
tion. The book will be written by Mr. E. W.
Tullidge author of the "Life of Brigham
Young, or Utah and Her Founders;" Mr. Tul-
lidge is a brilliant writer, a man naturally gift-
ed with such qualities as make an author en-
tertaining, and has a very clear and happy style
of portraying his subjects. It is expected the
book will be published almost immediately.
Some chapters have been already written.
The women of Utah should all have an interest
in this book, as it will probably throw alto-
gether a different light upon their lives and
motives of actions.
	A MOST DISTRESSING accident occurred in
this city, Friday morning, Nov. 10, to a little
boy about four years of age; son of R. V. Mor-
ris; nineteenth ward. He, with his brother, a
little older than himself was crossing the street
from the corner of the Deseret News Building,
to the opposite one, and were trying to avoid
being run over by a wagon just then passing the
car track, when the car came along just catch-
ing the child and throwing him under the
wheels; one wheel passed over his legs just be-
low the knee; one leg was almost severed and
the other very badly cut. The broken leg was
amputated almost directly by Dr. Benedict, to
whose office the child was immediately con-
veyed. All the assistance possible was ren-
dered momentarily, and the sad news carried
to the afflicted parents. It is expected the
child will recover, as he is to all appearance as
comfortable as possible under the circumstan-
ces. We extend to the agonized parents our
heartfelt sympathies and trust our Heavenly
Father will soften the sudden blow, and re-
store their dear one to health.
	It is said by those who were witnesses of this
sad accident, no blame could be rightfully at-
tached to the driver of the car, who is over-
whelmed with sorrow that such a fearful catas-
trophe should have occurred.
	ON MONDAY evening Nov. 6th, the regular
monthly meeting of the Sunday School Union
was held in the Council House. The meeting
was crowded and great interest was manifested
in the subjects discussed. One item brought
before the meeting was the raising of means
for the Floral Committee, to be used to decor-
ate the Tabernacle for the yearly Sunday
School Jubilee. One scheme proposed was to
raise the money by means of a party, but as
this seemed impracticable in consideration of
various circumstances, it was decided to raise
it by donations of five dollars each, from the 
several ward Sunday Schools; and as most of
these number about one hundred pupils, it
would only amount to about five cents apiece.
The subject of suitable singing books, and ap-
propriate books for pupils was also dilated up-
on, but no definite conclusion arrived at. This
subject is worthy the attention of all who are
interested in the advancement of the kingdom
of God. The music of any people is an inspir-
ation, and the children of Zion should receive
the highest cultivation in this inspirational
art. There is a pathos and melody imparted
by the songs of little children which often-
times strikes a chord in the human soul, where
all the eloquence of oratory has failed to find
access. Then this people of all the nations of
[-]he earth should have songs, hymns, and an-
thems adapted to the ideas and principles
which they hold so sacred.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-

[Column 2]
tion met at the Firemen's Hall, Wednesday,
Nov. 1st. Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. young said that the reel had arrived
and was now being worked in Logan, by an
Italian lady, who, previous to coming to Utah,
had worked at the business from early youth,
and was a first-class reeler; also that Miss Mary
A. Rockwood had gone from this city to take
lessons, so as to be able to reel silk here and
teach others, and thus extend it through all
the settlements in the Territory. Mrs. Young
was in hopes that she would have some speci-
mens of silk at our next meeting. Now was
the time to plant out our trees or cuttings.
She urged those who were doing so to put
out a few more than they needed for them-
selves, as there might be others that would
want some, and thus keep extending this
branch of home industry.
	Mrs. Barney said that we had got a good
foundation laid, and hoped that we would keep
on building until it became a mighty struct-
ure. She felt satisfied with what had already
been done; said it was reported that the so-
ciety were only giving one dollar per pound
for cocoons, which was a mistake; they are
giving two dollars per pound.
	Mrs. E. Baker said that she was used to
working among silk, and could teach seven
branches from the cocoon.	The question was asked, where can we get
our trees and cuttings?
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said that she had been
informed that Mr. John Reading, of this city,
could furnish them at very reasonable prices.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Wednesday
in December, at this place.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
		DEATH OF COL. JACKSON.
	A dispatch from St. George announces the
death there, Monday morning Nov. 1st, of
Col. Alden A. M. Jackson. On the 15th
of last February he was first struck with ap-
poplexy, which affiiction has now proved fatal.
Col. Jackson was a Colonel in the regular army
under Gen. Scott. and subsequently located in
Southern California, where he practiced law as
an attorney. In 1860 or [-]61 he removed to St.
George, where he resided up to the time of his
death. He was an intelligent, highly respect-
ed citizen, whose death will be mourned by
many warm friends. He was sixty nine years
of age.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		93


NOTICE.

	The Woman's Commission House, recently establish-
ed under the auspices of the Relief Society Woman's
Mercantile Association, is now transacting business on
commission at the Old Constitution Buildings, opposite
Z. C. M. I. Their stock consists entirely of home-
manufactures. They are well supplied with plaid, lin-
seys and waterproofs for winter dresses, wraps etc; and
shawls large and small, stockings and socks of all sizes
knit with machine or by hand, baby's socks, crochet
cuffs or wristers large and small. A dressmaker is
there, ready to make up material to order. There is a
good supply of men's and boys wear, of all the differ-
ent varieties manufactured here; an excellent tailor to
do all kinds of work in that line. There is also a full
stock of hats, straw and felt, and a millinerto attend to
that part of the work. They have also various other
articles of wear and use. All the standard church
books. Homemade soap, Jamaica ginger, ink, black-
ing and vinegar, also butter, cheese, and eggs. Among
the things noticeable are the lace and silk productions,
some of which are exquisite. The patronage of the
people is solicited for this institution, that Utah may


sustain by united effort the industry which is the pros-
pective wealth of her people. The women of this Ter-
ritory are making this almost unprecedented movement
to concentrate their exertions in one grand enterprise to
become self-sustaining, that they may free themselves
as a people, as soon as possible, from the shackles of
Babylon.


MIXED EDUCATION.

	Among the good things which will assur-
edly grow out of the "Woman's Rights"
clamor will be an enlargement of the sphere
of female education, giving the girls equal
opportunities with their brothers to acquire
knowledge and achieve scholastic honors;
and beyond this to attend the same schools,
and thus receive and confer the blessings
which must always attend upon intelligent
and prudent intercourse of the sexes. If
there is one idea as to education more falla-
cious than all others, it is that, to preserve
purity and healthful intellectual progress,
the sexes must be separated. As well
might one argue that there should be no
"mixed" families—when the commonest
observation shows that the most symmetri-
cally developed men and women are those
whose lives have been rounded and toned
by early and familiar contact with the op-
posite sex. A boy who has no sister to love
or care for is quite sure to go to one of two
extremes—he will either, in his yearning
for such companionship, wholly overrate its
beneficence or become inflated with an un-
due sense of his superiority. Nothing is
better for a self-contained coxcomb than to
have his vanity taken out of him by a
smart girl—and there are so many of them
who can do it! A noble, whole-souled boy
is proud of an intelligent sister; and, unless
his good sense is tampered with by that
most unjust but powerful agent, ridicule, he
will never dream that it is beneath him to
counsel on even terms with her, or to ac-
cept and act upon her advice. And what
is true of families is equally true of schools.
There is no one good reason why the sexes
should not be educated together; while in
support of the mixed system reasons are as
plenty as black berries.—Selected.


"PARADISE LOST."

	M. Edmond Scherer, a French writer,
gives the following criticism of Milton's
"Paradise Lost" in a recent work:—"'Para-
dise Lost' is a false, grotesque, tiresome
poem; not one reader in a hundred can go
without smiling through the ninth and
tenth books, or without yawning through
the eleventh and twelfth; it does not hold to-
gether; it is a pyramid balancing on its
point—the most frightful of problems re-
solved by the most puerile of means. And
yet, 'Paradise Lost' is immortal. It lives
in virtue of some episodes which will re-
main forever famous. In opposition to
Dante, whom we must read altogether; if
we wish really to possess his beauties, we
must read Milton only in fragments. But
these fragments are part of the poetic pat-
rimony of the English race."


WHAT ARE TAXES?

	THE axle on which the wheels of the
State coach turn.
	Periodical bleeding, prescribed by Gov-
ernment.
	Feathers plucked from all birds to line
the nests of a few.
	The Nation's little account for board and
lodging.


94		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				EXTRACTS.

	MUSIC AND WOMAN AS A MUSICIAN.

	(READ AT THE WOMAN'S CONGRESS.)

	BY MADAME FANNY RAYMOND RITTER.

	Notwithstanding the eulogiums of the
Greeks, music, as we understand it scarcely
had an existence prior to the establishment
of Christianity; its feeble germ, nursed in the
rocks and caverns where the early Chris-
tians took refuge, fanned by the sighs and
watered by the tears of the persecuted, de-
veloped into existence as the Ambrosian
and Gregorian-chants, and spread through
storm and transition into the life of the
people, as the troubadour, minstrel, and
folk-songs, and dance music, until it gradu-
ally became what it now is, the reigning art
of the present day, the most consummate
flower of modern civilization and artistic
culture.
	It is the most transcendental of all arts,
for it is a purely metaphysical outward man-
ifestation of the inward soul; it is the most
complex of all arts—vague, indefinite and
yet infinitely precise; it is the most ideal of
all arts, for—almost a religion in itself—it
is the exquisite embodiment of unshaken
faith in continual progress towards perfec-
tion. In the evanescent, intangible form of
music, from material the smallest, from pos-
sibilities the most vast, the human heart
and mind has gradually evoked a language,
an art, a science, compared with which the
miraculous, fabulous creations of the ma-
gicians of antiquity appear pale, cold,
empty, and meaningless.
	Woman's practical career as a musician
only began with the invention of the opera,
about 1600. It was not until her superior-
ity as an actress and singer had been unde-
niably and triumphantly established on the
stage, that she was allowed to resume her
musical participation in church services.
	And what a position as an artiste, wo-
man has established for herself during the
past two hundred years! The very names
of those songstresses whose fame still echoes
through the halls of musical history, are in
themselves romances, recalling, as they do,
the charms, gifts, caprices, accomplishments,
charities, errors, virtues, and adventures of
their possessors.
	One of the first of these ladies mentioned
in history, is Vittoria Archilei, a musician
at the court of Florence in 1600, who took
part in the first opera that was represented
in public. Who has not heard of Fanstina
Bordoni, born in 1700, a songstress in whose
name medals were struck, while societies
were founded in honor of her! Her rival,
Regina Mingotti, whose portrait, painted
by Rosalba, now stands in the Dresden gal-
lery, astonished Dr. Budney by her fresh-
ness of voice at an advanced age, as well as
by her power of conversing equally well in
five languages. Madame Mara, the favor-
ite singer of Frederick the Great, and Marie
Antoinette, delighted Europe for nearly fif-
teen years; Caterina Gabrielli, the pupil of
Metastasio, excited her audiences to alter-
nate frenzies of admiration and anger by
her voice, beauty, and caprice. It was she,
who, when Catherine of Russia complained
that her salary was higher than that of the
Field Marshals of the Empire, replied
"Let your Majesty try to make the Field
Marshals sing in my place, then!" Mad-
ame Catalani, born in 1779, possessed a
trumpet like power of voice. In London,
she received twelve hundred dollars for
singing the solo in "God Save the King,"
and twelve thousand dollars for assisting

[Column 2]
at a single musical festival. Mrs. Billing-
ton was accused by the superstitious Neapol-
itans, of causing, by her wonderful voice;
the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 1794;
M. Thiers has translated her autobiography
into French. Mrs. Sheridan, wife of the
dramatist, charmed by her poetic gifts and
personal graces, almost as much as with her
thrilling voice.
	Though we find little trace of Woman in
the annals of composition, that songstresses
existed, capable of interpreting the works of
composers in an almost independent man-
ner, the scores of old operas prove. In
many of these, the melody, is reduced to a
mere thread, in order to give the songstress
perfect liberty in varying the theme accord-
ing to the exigencies of the action, and the
passion of the poetry she had to interpret.
And what may she not have accomplished
in a secondary character, as friend, consoler,
inspirer of the composer? Would Goethe
have accomplished all that he did, if, in his
Weimar circle, he had not found such wo-
men as the Duchess Amalie, Mdme. von
Stein, Bettina, and the singer Corona
Schraeter? Who does nor recall the exalted
friendships of Vittoria Colonna and Mich-
ael Angelo, of the Countess of Albany and
Alfieri, and many other interesting exam-
ples? So, among the friends of the compo-
sers, Mdme. von Breuning was a sort of in-
tellectual mother to Beethoven, in her kind-
ness to and care for him; Mdlle Boselli was
Haydn's inspirer; Mozarts wife, whose
name, Constance, he gave to the heroine
of his opera, "The elopement from the se-
raglio," was his best friend; the closest in-
tellectual comradeship existed between
Mendelssohn and his sister, Mdme. Hen-
sel; and the list of women who have made
a beneficent and inspiring use of their in-
fluence over composers, is a long one, through
less so than that of the lovers and friends
of the poets and painters.
	It is, nevertheless, difficult for the most
ardent advocate of Woman's progress, to
point to such a galaxy of celebrities among
feminine composers, as may be placed, with-
out losing their brilliancy, beside the names
that add lustre to womanhood in other
branches of art, and in literature. In com-
position we cannot boast stars of such pre-
eminent distinction as Sappho, Aspasia; Hel-
oise, Vittoria Colonna, Madame de Stael,
Dora d'Istria, Mrs. Siddons,, Fernan Cabal-
lero, Miss Cushman, Miss Bronte, Rosa
Bonheur, Miss Thompson, Mrs. Browning,
Mrs. Lewes, and the rest. The list of fem-
inine composers is a brief one, and most of
its members are now living. There was
Leopoldine Blahetka, daughter of a profes-
sor of mathematics in Vienna, a famous pi-
aniste who published more than seventy
songs and pianoforte pieces, some of which
were greatly admired by Beethoven; Jos-
ephine Lang, the friend of Mendelsshon;
who composed many charming songs; Mad-
ame Hensel, the sister of Mendelsshon;
Louise Puget, whose vocal romances en-
joyed an enormous popularity in France;
Elise Polko, who, carefully trained as a
singer, lost her voice prematurely, and
wrote many pretty novelettes, and now ap-
pears before the world as a song composer;
Madame Dolby and Virginia Gabriel, the
English ballad writer. Madame Schurman
and Madame Garcia have both composed
some fine works, though few in number.
But women have not hitherto realized what
long years of severe mental discipline and
scientific training are necessary in order to
master the art of composition. This is not
much to the discredit of their patience and
courage, for very few among musical stu-
dents of the other sex are, in America; will-

[Column 3]
ing to devote themselves to such a self-sac-
rificing study; too many, when they begin
to understand the amount of labor required,
become discouraged and abandon it; and
none among them yet, have acquired such
thorough early training as will insure per-
fect development to their talent for compo-
sition, and lasting fame to its results.
Mathematics, acoustics, psychology, foreign
languages and literature, the theory and
practice of many instruments, as well as
the science of music itself, must all be mas-
tered by the composer, and gradually,
through the application and assimilation of
long years of study and practice, become
the "second nature" of his mind.
	Genius, talent, irrespective of sex too,
receives the highest emoluments and hon-
ors in this art; then let Woman, whose suc-
cess has been so signal as an exponent of
vocal art,—the art of passion, persuasion;
emotion—make a further effort, now that all
opportunities are open to her, and endeavor
to compose for immortality. But, to do this,
she must abandon the idea that composi-
tion is an affair of instinct; the highest nat-
ural gifts demand the highest cultivation,
and without it they are unproductive, in-
significant, useless. It may be some en-
couragement to the aspiring student to
know that the grandest original idea of a
Handel or a Beethoven demanded more per-
fect working out, more patient polishing,
than the smallest fancy that issues from
the brain of the ballad writer demands.
	And let not women overlook one of the
most beautiful qualities of music; it pene-
trates not only to the intelligence, but to
the heart also, thus widening and vivifying
the faculties, and rendering them better
prepared, by sympathy, to receive humane
and elevated impressions. For this reason
we shall find music one of the most import-
ant factors in the coming era of universal
civilization, brotherhood, and equality.
Music possesses a lofty ethical significance;
the very heart of humanity beats in its
rhythm; and heart speaks to heart even
more completely than brain to brain. Music,
too, is based on the social sentiment of
mankind; it is the annihilator of egotism,
the most complete expositor of the life of
mankind in unison, the art whose truest
mission is to express the warmest, noblest,
most generous of human feelings,—love,
faith, patriotism; the art of order, unity,
harmony; the art that is destined to become
in some far distant but glorious day, the
universal language of humanity.


LEAP YEAR.

	Remember, O, maiden fair! two months
more and leap year is gone!—for you, per-
chance, forever-gone! How inexpressibly
sad—how inconceivably heart-touching—
the thought! But within two months,
brief though the period be, much may be
accomplished. Pick out judiciously, and
with an especial eye to his total abstinence
from those patent air-brakes to the aspiring
youth, beer and tobacco, the lordly leal and
liquor-contemning young man upon whom
you would lavish your gushing affections.
Where is the girl, whether fluttering in the
brocade of a princess or wearing the calico
polonaise of the laborer's daughter, who
would be told that for her three months are
not time enough for the wooing and the
winning of as good a husband as may be
wooed and won by any other girl with no
better faculties for the business? It is Shaks-
peare who somewhere says—and it is un-
questionably Shakspeare who knows—that,
"that man who hath a tongue, I say, is no
man, if with that tongue he cannot win a


woman." This is scarcely less true, perhaps,
than gospel. If it be true that any man
who hath a tongue can win a woman, it
would seem to follow, from a purity of reas-
oning, as the cheap disputants of some of
the religious newspapers have it, that the
woman who hath a tongue of her own—and
there be few of the sweet, delicious sex to
whom this gift is denied—must be very 
nearly akin to no woman if she cannot win
a man—and win him in less than two
months, too, and be ready with the assur-
ance in the end that she won him and
didn't half try. But enough.
	"Canst thou love me gentle stranger?"
		Blushing like a rose she stood:
	And the youth at once acknowledged
		That he rather thought he could.
			Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		95


PROPHECY OR VISION.

	The following prophecy, handed us for
publication, may be a sort of testimony that
there are others who are looking forward
to the fulfillment of ancient prophecy be-
sides the Latter-day Saints.
	WHAT MAY HAPPEN IN LESS THAN A
		HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.
	First.—About the year A. D. 1848, or '49,
there will be in Europe a revolution, either
in France, Italy, or Austria, and then com-
mences the "beginning of the end" spoken
of by the Prophets. New governments
will arise on the earth, and we shall have
wars and rumors of wars.
	Second.—Scarcely has the turmoil in Eu-
rope expired before our own America will
have taken up the tumult, and about A. D.
1860 or 1861 there will be a division in the
United States. The South will go to her-
self, and then war, famine and pestilence
will stalk abroad over the land—murders,
arson, incest, theft, and all other crimes
will be rife in the land. Hope will depart
from every human breast. Governments
that had been deemed impregnable will
topple and fall; but the end is not yet.
	Third.—Thirty years from the "begin-
ning of this end" will pass away, and upon
the broad earth there will exist no Govern-
ment such as now exists, or which may ex-
ist up to that time—all will be overturned
—all will be destroyed. Those then on
earth will return to the Government of the
Patriarchs, and the sire of many descend-
ants will rule and govern as in the days of
Abram, Isaac and Jacob, and servants and
slaves likewise will exist as in those days.
	Fourth.—Forty-five years of this Patri-
archial rule. and then comes the glorious
day—the Millennium—and the return of
Jesus Christ to the earth, here to reign as
temporal Prince three hundred and sixty-
five thousand years. Happy is he who
may be on earth, or who may have arisen
from the earth, fitted as a subject to live
under the mild government of such a Prince
and King.
							AMINADAB.
	Delaware River, 3rd mo., A. D. 1780.
	P. S. The above item, originally published
in the "Pioche Record, by one John Smith, he
avers to be an old American M. S. S. of the Re-
volutionary period.


"GOOD ENGLISH."

	A flippant phrase, which is most fre-
quently used by those who know least of
its practical significance. It is so easy to
say of a person whose sentiments do not
please us, or who is getting more of the
world's attention than we think becoming—


or, at least, more than has fallen to our own
lot—that he or she "does not write good
English." There is such a sweeping de-
nunciation in the charge, and it means so
much that its exact meaning may safely be
left to each one's own inference—each one,
of course, accepting without protest the
proffered office of umpire, and being fully
persuaded in his own mind that what he
does not know about "good English" is
hardly worth the knowing.
	It is scarcely possible that literary criti-
cism will ever become an exact science, or
that the individual tests which are so freely
applied will ever be more reliable or just
than at present; and while this is so—leav-
ing the final judgment to individual taste
and individual feeling—would it not be
best to accept as a fair test of "good Eng-
lish," that use of our vernacular which
shall convey most readily and surely to oth-
ers the very shade of thought which
prompts expression. It is a fact no less re-
markable than demonstrable that the most
frequent complaints against a lack of purity
in English composition are leveled at that
class of writing which is the most positive
and clear in its statements, and the least
likely to be misunderstood or misapplied.
Inelegant it may be, and unclassical; but the
English tongue is neither elegant nor classi-
cal, and is always best and purest when most
simple and expressive.—Ex.


WOMEN'S FACES.

	Somehow or other the women whose life
and grace of face are remarkable—so re-
markable as instantly to attract and fascin-
ate—almost never approach the ancient or
modern types of beauty. If you were to
take one of the women out of the pages of
Le Follet, and give her twenty times the
genius of George Elliot, she would still look
a fool. No power of brain could conquer
the simpering stolidity of the perfectly
regular face. Yet if pressed for an answer
as to what they consider the perfect type of
modern beauty, these men would think of
one of these women in a book of fashions.
There are the clear outlines of nose, mouth
and chin; the smooth forehead, small ear,
rounded cheek and accurately-placed eyes.
A man suddenly confronted with such a
face admires it; he is not moved by any in-
stantaneous sympathy toward it. Perfectly
beautiful women (there are not many, even
if we accept the low type mentioned) are
much caressed by society. They adorn din-
ner tables, are magnificent at balls, and
make good matches. (Regular lucifers,
sometimes[--].—Ed.) But they do not break
hearts; and the memory of their face, tor-
tured with pouting or glowing with the
quick joy of meeting, does not haunt a
man's life. A plain woman with a cultiva-
ted brain and good taste, ought always to
hold her own against merely pretty women.
—Ex.


IDLENESS is the nursery of crime. It is
that prolific germ of which all rank and
poisonous vices are the fruits. It is the
source of temptation. It is the field where
"the enemy sows tares while men sleep."
Could we trace the history of a large class
of vices, we would find that they originate
from the want of employment, and are
brought in to supply its place.


A POPULAR writer, speaking of the ocean
telegraph, wonders whether the news trans-
ported through the salt water will be fresh.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A good method for cooking rice, is to first put
it in cold water with a little salt, put on the fire
and let it boil five minutes, then drain and put
on a dish in a steamer and let it steam one hour.
	To clean glasses, bottles and decanters brightly,
break a few raw egg shells in the article to be
cleaned, with a little cold water,—if greasy, warm
water, and a little soda; shake well, rinse with
plenty of cold water, and the effect is perfect.
This is a common practice in France.
	In preserving, it may not be generally known
that to boil the fruit some time before adding the
sugar is very economical, because the bulk ot the
scum arising from the fruit is free from sugar;
boiling without a cover allows the water to evap-
orate, and so the fruit is firmer and better flavor-
ed.
	Veal Cutlets.—Cut the veal in good, fair sli-
ces, salt and pepper them and dip each slice in a
well-beaten egg, then in rolled crackers or bread
crumbs. fry in a good supply of hot butter or lard
until they are a delicate brown. Some prefer
them partly fried first and then covered with the
bread crumbs.
	Cement that will render india-rubber adherent
to glass or metal: pulverize some shellac and then
soften it in ten times its weight of strong am-
monia, this will become a transparent mass, and
after keeping it some little time it will become a
fluid without the aid of hot water. In three or
four weeks the mixture is perfectly liquid and
when applied will soften the rubber; for cement-
ing the rubber sheet, or the material in any shape,
to metal, glass or other surfaces, this cement is
strongly recommended.
	Pressed Beef.—Pickle the best piece of a thick
flank of beef in one pound of salt, and one ounce
of salt-petre; let it remain one week turning it
every day, after that add one half ounce of cloves,
the same of allspice, black pepper and coarse su-
gar; then let it remain a fortnight. Boil it with
onions, or whatever seasoning is preferred; until
it is tender; then place between flat dishes with
a heavy weight upon it, and let remain a day or
so; cut it when ready for use, the size of the dish
you wish to use, and pour over it jelly of what-
ever kind preferred, cover it over, and when served
it will present a very tempting appearance.
	Veal Pie.—Take a breast of veal, stew with
just enough water to cover it and season with pep-
per, salt and celery. When the veal is done, slip
the bones from the meat and remove the meat,
leaving the bones in the liquor the veal was stew-
ed in, so as to make a strong jelly. Take your
pie-dish, lay in it slices of veal, and between the
veal at intervals, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs,
and balls made of sausage meat, sprinkled over
with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, pour the
gravy in the dish and ornament the top with
leaves cut out of pastry, brush it over with the
yolks of a raw egg and let it bake for one hour, or
untilth e gravy boils, and the crust is firm on the
top. Some prefer ham mixed with the veal.


THE LIVING HUMOR OF MADNESS"—A
gentleman visiting a lunatic asylum went
up to a distinguished-looking man sitting
moodily alone, and said to him—"How do
you do? I think I have seen you before'
may I ask your name?" "My name!" re-
turned the other fiercely. "I am Alexan-
der the Great!" "Why" said the visitor,
who suddenly remembered having already
had a discussion with the man, "the last
time I was here you were St. Paul!" Yes,
of course rejoined the man quickly, "but
that was by my first wife."


96		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cream of Tartar for Small-pox:—Take one
ounce of cream of tarter to one pint of boiling
water, let it stand after mixing and give it to the
patient in broken doses of a teaspoonful at a time.
It is said by those who have used it, to be one
of the best medicines ever used.
	The celebrated Dr. Greene in his comments on
the problem of health, in reference to laughter,
says: "There is not the remotest corner, or inlet
of the minute blood vessels of the human body
that does not feel some wavelet from the convul.
sion occasioned by good hearty laughter. The life
principle is shaken to its remotest depths, and
sends new tides of life and strength to its surface.
The blood moves more rapidly and conveys a dif-
ferent impression to all the organs of the body, as
it visits them on that particular mystic journey,
when the person is laughing, from what it does at
other times. Every good hearty laugh, tends to
lengthen life, conveying new and distinct stimulus
to the vital forces." The influence of the mind
upon the vital forces of the body can scarcely be
over-estimated. One writer in commenting upon
Dr. Greene's theory in regard to laughter, alludes
to an old school teacher who said "when child-
ren were laughing their minds were expanding.


DIVERSIONS.

	WHY are troubles like babies?—Because
they get bigger by nursing.
	THE saying, "Excuse haste and a bad
pen," has been attributed to a pig who ran
away from home.
	SOME one who believes that "brevity is
the soul of wit" writes, "Don't eat stale
Q-cumbers. They'll W-up." Other speci-
mens. "4tograph," (photograph.) "11-
worth;" (Leavenworth.) '10-a-C," (Tennes-
see.)   "Y-&." (Wyandotte.)
	WHAT a strain that is!" said Mrs. Part-
ington, as she heard an air from "Lucia"
sung in the highest style by a young lady
where she was visiting. "Yes," was the re-
sponse; "it is operatic!" "Upper attic?"
questioned she. "I should think it was
high enough to be on the top of the house."
	"WELL Sare," said a Philadelphia Cen-
tennial restaurant keeper, shrugging his
shoulders, when a customer, from Arkan-
sas demurred to paying a dollar for a cup of
coffee and a roll, "ze price he may luke
large—zat I admete, but zen, sare, reflect
zat you nafer have anozzer chance like zese
for one huntret years."
	SELF DISCIPLINE.—Costly apparatus and
splendid cabinets have no magical power to
make scholars. In all circumstances, a man
is, under God, the master of his own mind.
The Creator has so constituted the human
intellect that it can only grow by its own
action; and by its own action and free will,
it will certainly and necessarily grow.
Every man must, therefore, educate him-
self. His book and teacher are but helps;
the work is his. A man is not educated un-
til he has the ability to summons, in an
emergency, all his mental powers in vigor-
ous exercise to effect its proposed object.
It is not the man who has seen most who
can do this; such a one is in danger of being
borne down like a beast of burden, by an
overloaded mass of other men's thoughts.
Nor is it the man who can boast of native
vigor and capacity. The greatest of all
warriors in the seige of Troy had not the
pre-eminence because nature had given him
strength and he carried the longest bow,
but because self-discipline had taught him
to bend it.


[Column 1]
		WOOLCOTT'S
	PAIN PAINT
			IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing.		Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises. Wounds, Colds,
				Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
		A HOME PREPARATION.
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's [-]th Ward
Cooper's 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

		AGENTS WANTED
	No Capital but Bishop's Reccomend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
FLANNELS,
	LINSEYS,
		WATERPROOFS,
			JEANS,
				DOE-SKINS,
					YARNS,
						STOCKINGS,
							GLOVES,
								LADIES' JACKETS, &c.,
									FANCY ATRICLES,
EATS, SHOES,
	BRUSHES,
		BROOMS,
			BUTTER,
				CHEESE, EGGS,
					FLOUR, CIDER-VINEGAR,
						INK, SOAPS,
							LAUNDRY,
								BLUEING,
		ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.
ALL HOME MANUFACTURE.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
