VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. MARCH 1, 1877.	No. 19.


FANCY'S PANORAMA.

I see, within the shadows of past years,
	A panorama all unrolled to view,
In many places blurred with woman's tears,
	But life like in its outlines, clear and true.
Visions of wildest fancies come and go,
	And whisp'rings of some dear delicious hours;
And soft and deep and musical the flow
	Of mem'ries river murm'ring 'mid life's bow'rs
How silently we summon to our aid
	The monitors then wont to be our guide,
And where our weary feet 'mong brambles stray'd,
	And sorely in our anguish we were tried.
Stern duty was our motto, and we sought
	To tread the narrow path, and trust in God,
Braving life's battles though with perils fraught.
	And bowing meekly 'neath the chastening rod.
And brighter grew the way as years rolled on,
	And light beam'd up where all around was dark;
And well we deem'd it that some toil was done
	E'en though accomplished by a glim'ring spark.
'Tis pleasant thus to contemplate, at times,
	The pictures which remembrance conjures up,
List'ning to echoing bells of long-lost chimes,
	Though seemingly we drain the bitter cup,
Tis but in thought, and life looks brighter still
	By contrast of those ills and griefs and fears;
And humbly may we our true mission fill
	Through all the changes of the coming years.

	EMILE.
S. L. City, Feb. 26, 1877.	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			ADVICE TO GIRLS.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Feeling a deep interest in the welfare of
the young ladies of Utah, I deem it a priv-
ilege to address them through the columns
of your valuable and interesting paper,
through which we learn of the grand im-
provements and enterprise of the sisters
from year to year.
	Young ladies you must perceive now
that you have superior advantages to im-
prove your minds and advance in the scale
of intelligence to those who have lived a
generation before you. It is necessary you
should hasten to step forward and qualify
yourselves for usefulness in life; house-
work to most young girls comes first in
every day experience; and every girl should
strive to acquire a full knowledge of all the
duties of the household; she should be
taught how to work as she is taught how to
read; there is art and skill in the proper use
of the broom; activity and cleanliness both
belong to its use; order and refinement are
required in the chamber for the arrange-
ment of the bed and furniture, but still
more varied and numerous are the duties
of the kitchen. Girls require most training
and the largest experience in the kitchen
which is a laboratory where chemicals are
compounded in the preparation of whole-
some food for the family. If there is one
thing more than another that is really nec-
essary for health it is for a woman to under-
stand how to prepare and cook food. The
necessity of industry, the obligation of
each girl to work for her living, her happi-
ness and her home, nothing is more valua-
ble than to learn to work systematically and
economically; and when extravagant fash-
ions give way as they inevitably must, to
sensible and prudent management in do-
mestic and social circles, the industrious
young woman with consistent ideas, sound
common sense, and adaptability, will hold
the front rank of the women of Utah; such

[Column 2]
will be the ones chosen for friends, wives,
and mothers, to act as counselors with the
brethren.
	Your birth and mission, young girls, is
co-equal with that of the young men, they
are your brothers, and your destiny is alike
eternal. Having been born you are not ex-
empt from the duties life involves, there-
fore study to realize the importance of the
course you pursue here, and do right in
spite of all annoyances and vicissitudes.
Life abounds with opportunities that are
within your reach of improving your minds
and enriching your hearts. Obligations
rest upon each of you for self-improvement,
this obligation in its binding force will run
parallel with your existence through all the
succeeding years of the future; then forget
not that our Father in heaven will require
you to improve, to cultivate yourselves for
it is an obligation he has imposed upon all
His children.
	My dear young ladies, I beseech you to
read history; select the best books that have
been written by the best men and women,
and you may obtain through careful train-
ing of the mind, great wisdom, and make
life a success. Choose the best society, lay
aside light reading, and when you read
sacred things and works of importance,
write on the tablets of your minds the im-
pression given, this will give you wisdom
to act well your part as wives and mothers
and to instruct your children in the paths
of virtue and happiness, and teach them to
walk in your foot prints. When you make
choice of a companion for life, select one
that is in good standing in the church and
kingdom of God, and do not accept of one
who frequents drinking saloons, and places
of that sort; or one who chooses the society
of those who do those things. Shun such
men as you would the poisonous adder, for
they will embitter your whole future exist-
ence.					D. F. Cox.
	Beaver, Feb. 4, '77.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ON THE 28th of February, Prof. Mercy B.
Jackson delivered the valedictory address
to the students of Boston University School
of Medicine, in Tremont Temple.
	THE FREE Dormitory for women in New
York, is said to be besieged nightly by
homeless women applying for shelter. Only
destitute women of respectability are ad-
mitted. The general police captains of the
city have been furnished with tickets good
for one night's lodging, and these are dis-
tributed among the poor women whom they
deem worthy of relief.—Ex.
	And yet these are the people who talk so
much about the terrible condition of affairs
in Utah, and especially in Salt Lake City.
In that very city there are hundreds of For-
eign Missionary Boards and so forth for the
benefit of the heathen, etc. Truly ought
Charity to begin at home. In conversation
with strangers from New York, Chicago
and other large cities, we have always tak-
en especial pains to make reference to the
thorough systematic management of the
Relief Societies organized among this peo-
ple for the benefit of the sick, the aged,


and the poor, and of the intention to pro-
vide work for all who are not incapacitat-
ed for labor, instead of giving without com-
pensation. The home-industries which
this people are laboring to establish, will
eventually furnish occupation for the labor-
ers of both sexes.


THE MORAL EFFECT OF HURRY.

	To the thoughtful, the moral conse-
quences of tension and hurry are very sad-
dening; to the physician their results are a
matter of profound concern; their grave
evils come under his daily observation.
No evolution of force can take place with
undue rapidity without damage to the ma-
chine in which the transformation is effect-
ed. Express railway stock has a much
shorter term of use that reserved for
slower traffic. The law is inversely propor-
tioned. It is therefore no matter of sur-
prise that the human nervous system is no
exception to the law. The higher salubrity
of rural over urban life is not a matter of
fresh air and exercise. Rural life involves
leisure and pause in work, which are very
essential to the maintenance of the ner-
vous system in a state of due nutrition.
Unremitting spasms soon cease altogether.
	The tension of life produces weakness at
the very place where life is most needed.
The damage done to the health of the most
valuable part of the community, the best
trained thinkers, the most useful workers,
is incalculable. Work and worry, though
not proportional, are closely connected, and
an excess of the former soon entails an in-
crease in the latter beyond the limits which
the nervous system can bear with impuni-
ty, especially the condition under which
the work has to be done. The machinery
for organizing the work of a community
has to be rigid and inflexible, and in the
strain involved in bringing a changing or-
ganism into harmony with a machine, the
former must inevitably suffer.—London
Lancet.


When Garrick was beginning his career,
his great rival was Quin. Garrick was
bright and natural, Quin was formal and
pompous. It was evident that the death
struggle between the old and the new
school was about to begin. At last it was
decided that they should appeal definitely
to the public. "The Fair Penitent" was
chosen. Garrick performed Lothario and
Quin Horatio. The first act took up a full
hour, for the house was full of the advo-
cates of both schools, and both were loud
in their plaudits. At last a trivial and lu-
dicrous, but, as all must have felt, a signifi-
cant circumstance gave Garrick the victory.
In the last scene of the second act Lothario
challenges Horatio "Two hours ere noon to-
morrow I expect thee." Quin with his
usual pompous stateliness, paused so long
before he gave an answer, that some sim-
ple fellow in the gallery, really excited by
the position, cried out, "Confound you, you
coward, why don't you tell the gentleman
whether you'll meet him or no?"


There are many of the greatest deeds
done in the small struggles of life.


146		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday afternoon, Feb. 17. was one of in-
tense interest. The Minutes of the Junior
Associations in the different wards were par-
ticularly interesting and showed the next
improvement in the young ladies. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne expressed herself
pleased to see so large an assembly, and
said that if the numbers continued to in-
crease that it would be necessary soon to
adjourn to a larger building. She made
many other appropriate remarks on the sub-
ject of Storing Grain; spoke of the signs of
the times—of wars and rumors of wars, and
Babylon's fall, and said this people were
well aware that if Babylon fell now and the
judgments came, they were not prepared to
sustain themselves. Mrs. Bishop, Mrs. Dy-
er and others bore faithful testimonies to
the truth of the gospel. Mrs. E. S. Barney
spoke particularly on the necessity of rais-
ing mulberry trees. Mrs. Clara J. Young
testified of her enjoyment in trying to live
in the United Order, and earnestly entreated
the Latter-day Saints to prepare their minds
for it, that they might avoid the failures
that had been experienced. Said that her
interests and sympathies were with this
people, and not with the outside world.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow spoke expressly
upon the subject of home industries; said one
great aim was to supply work for those who
desired to labor, and also to be able to make
the entire community self-sustaining. Said
that the time seemed too short for anything
aside from the absolute duties. By request
of the President, Mrs. Horne, Bro. Wm.
Smith made a few remarks on subjects con-
nected with woman's work, and woman's
influence, and the progress he had noticed
since he last met with them. He gave a
powerful testimony on the subject of heal-
ing.

	PARADISE, CACHE Co., Feb. 11, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our society has been reorganized with
the following officers:
Mrs. Lydia Remington, President; Mrs.
Ann James, Mrs. Lizzie Humphreys, Coun-
selors; Mrs. Sinah Bishop, Secretary; Mrs.
Carrie M. Smith Ass't Sec'y; Mrs. Lizzie
Remington, Treasurer.
	Your sister in the Gospel.
								C. M. S.

					MANTI, Feb. 1st, 1877.
	Secretary's report of receipts and dis-
bursements for the Manti Relief Society,
from May 1st, 1876, to Feb. 1st. 1877.
	Receipts................................... $ 223  08
	Disbursements.......................    119  74
	Balance...................................     103  34
	Represented in the treasury by the fol-
lowing items.
	Wheat.....................................       63  00
	Cash.......................................	 14  40
	Cloth.......................................	 15 75
	Due bills on Co-op Store......	 5   19
	One Quilt...............................	 5   00
	Total.......................................  $   103  34.
						A. L. Cox, Sec'y. 

				HUNTSVILLE, WEBER, Co.
								Feb. 13, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I take pleasure in writing a few lines to
you as a member of the Relief Society of

[Column 2]
Huntsville, which town is located some
twelve miles east of Ogden. It is a flour-
ishing little town with a goodly number of
inhabitants mostly from Denmark and
Sweden. Our leading men are ever alive
to the interests of Zion as also our Relief
Society. Our worthy President Mrs. M. J.
Hammond and Counselors, and sisters in
general are doing all they can in storing
up grain for the time of need. The pro-
ceeds of our last working meeting will be
turned into sheep and grain. We think it
wise to provide working material for our
elderly sisters, as many of them can spin
and knit and are very willing to assist in
whatever way they can.
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Society
are doing all they can in the way of making
quilts, and braiding straw, and ever mani-
fest a willingness to assist in the good
cause.
	Your interesting paper is always appre-
ciated, and hoping that it may continue to
instruct, and cheer the hearts of the sisters
is the prayer of your sister,
				ELIZABETH HAWKINS.

			S. L. CITY, Feb. 14, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Eighth Ward Relief Society held
their Annual meeting on the first of Feb.,
instead of Jan. the usual time, on account
of the illness of the president; There were
present at the meeting, President Mrs. Lea-
ver, and her Counselor, Mrs. Sarah Need-
ham; also Bishop Sheets, and Counselors
Brockbank and Royal B. Young. The
Bishop said we had done considerable for
the poor this year; that our receipts and dis-
bursements showed that means had been
liberally donated and disbursed to assist
those who were sick and needy, which he
was pleased to see. Said that as we had
commenced storing grain he hoped that we
would continue to persevere; he believed
that the sisters would accomplish what the
brethren had failed to do in storing grain.
Bro. Brockbank made some very excellent
remarks on "Woman's Sphere" observed
that much had been said on that question,
that it was truly a great mission she had to
perform and that great responsibilities rest-
ed upon women as wives and mothers.
Bro. R. B. Young made a few remarks; said
he was pleased to see the Relief Society do-
ing so much good, felt to sustain them;
thought there seemed to be a lively interest
taken by the sisters of the Society to
do their duty in whatever sphere they were
called to act. The sisters of our society
feel to respond to all the requirements of
those in authority over them, and to carry
out the counsel of President Young in the
Storing of Grain and in the building of
Temples; and feel willing to do all they can
in their humble way to build up the king-
dom of God upon the earth.
				E. B. FLETCHER, Sec'y.

			CANTON, ILL. Feb. 14, 1877.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	I thought I would inform you of our lit-
tle organization in Canton, that you may
learn of our prosperity and desire of be-
coming united with the sisters in Zion.
	We were organized into a Relief Society
by Elder D. M. Stuart, assisted by Elder
Middleton, at a conference held December
31, 1876. We meet every two weeks and
are abundantly blessed with the holy spirit,
engaging in singing, prayer and conversing
upon the pure principles of the gospel that
are calculated to exalt all those who are

[Column 3]
humble and obedient enough to receive
them.
	We read the EXPONENT in our meetings
which is truly interesting and edifying,
and it has proven to be a most valuable ar-
ticle in this vicinity in removing a great
deal of the prejudice existing in the minds
of many, who have been blinded by the
false reports that are circulated abroad by
some who have at one time known the
truth and turned from it and by others who
are totally ignorant of the Latter-day work.
We take great pleasure in reading the let-
ters from the Relief Societies in the differ-
ent settlements of Utah stating their pro-
gress and the good spirit enjoyed, and wish
we were there to listen to the wise counsels
of our sisters who are experienced.
	We are quite a distance from Zion but
we feel to exert our influence for good
though our numbers are small, and we real-
ize that we can do but little, being sur-
rounded by those who are opposed to the
doctrines we advocate, we find a great
many influences to contend with; but all
the sisters seem to be united and desirous
of doing all in their power for the good of
the cause in contributing their means for
the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, and
we trust that if we are faithful and diligent
in our efforts, we may be instrumental in
bringing some to a knowledge of the truth
of the Gospel which the world terms "Mor-
monism."
	We desire to be kindly remembered by
our sisters in Zion. Praying for the success
of your little paper and all institutions of
Improvement, I remain your co-worker in
the cause of Truth.
			SARAH WILLIAMS, Pres't.

			GRANTSVILLE, Feb. 21, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENTS:
	The sisters of Grantsville are trying to
obey the counsel of President Young in re-
gard to storing grain. They are also trying
to retrench from everything that is likely
to injure them. The Relief and Retrench-
ment Societies are doing well. The former
has over two hundred bushels of wheat
stored away, besides being determined to
help their husbands keep all they can in
their bins at home by doing without every-
thing in the way of useless finery. In our
sewing meetings we always introduce sub-
jects of conversation pertaining to matters
of interest to us as a body of people, and
no gossip is ever allowed or introduced.
	The dancing parties out here are closed
at ten o'clock in the evening; we mothers
think this an excellent arrangement as it
will save the health of our young girls, and
very likely in many instances their lives.
	There is also a Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Society here. This last effort
to awake our youth to a sense of their
importance in these last days, for they must
be the ones to carry off the responsibilities
of this church and kingdom, receive the
earnest prayers of every thinking mother.
	Our City Fathers are trying with all their
might to keep LIQUOR STORES out of
Grantsville, this of course receives our
hearty approval. We are all trying to do
as much good as we can, not forgetting the
Temple by any means.
	Still desiring to improve, we remain
your sisters in the Relief Society,
	Mary A. Hunter, President,
	Jane Eastham,	}	Counselors.
	Sarah Hale,		}
					M. A. HOUSE, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.		147


THE MOTHER OF WASHINGTON.*

Long hast thou slept unnoted. Nature stole
In her soft minstrelsy around thy bed,
Spreading her vernal tissues, violet gem'd,
And pearled with dews.

			She bade bright Summer bring,
Gifts of frankincense, with sweet songs of birds,
And Autumn cast his reaper's coronet
Down at thy feet, and stormy Winter speaks
Sternly of man's neglect. But now we come
To do thee homage, Mother of our chief!

Methinks we see thee as in olden time,
Simple in garb—majestic and serene;
Unmoved by pomp or circumstance—in truth.
Inflexible, and with a Spartan zeal
Repressing vice and making folly grave.
Thou deemst it not woman's part to waste
Life in inglorious sloth—to sport a while
Amid the flowers, or on the summer wave,
Then fleet, like the ephemera, away,
Building no temple in her children's hearts
Save to the vanity and pride of life
Which she had wors[---]p'd.
			For the might that cloth'd
The "Pater Patrix"—for the glorious deeds
That make Mount Vernon's tomb a Mecca shrine,
For all the earth—what thanks to thee are due,
Who 'mid his elements of being, wrought,
We know not—Heaven can tell!

			Rise, sculptured pile!
And show a race unborn who rest below,
And say to mothers, What a holy charge
Is thine—with what a kingly power this love
Might rule the fountains of the newborn mind.
Warn them to wake at early dawn, and sow
Good seed before the world hath sown her tares;
Nor in their toil decline—that angel hands
May put the sickle in, and reap for God,
And gather to his garner.
			Ye who stand
With thrilling breast to view her trophied praise,
Who nobly reared Virginia's godlike chief—
Ye, whose last thought upon your nightly couch,
Whose first at waking, is your cradled son,
What though no high ambition prompts to rear
A second Washington, or have your name
Wrought out in marble with a nation's tear
Of deathless gratitnde—yet may you raise
A monument above the stars—a soul
Led by your teachings and your prayers to God.
								L.H. SIGOURNEY.
On laying the corner-stone of her monument at Fred-
ericksburg, Virginia.


WRITTEN BY REQUEST, AND READ
	BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES' RE-
		TRENCHMENT MEETING OF 
				THE 19 WARD.

	I heard my name put down for an essay
last Wednesday, but I think the few re-
marks I am about to read will scarcely bear
that title. I have been engaged every mo-
ment since we last met and have not much
time for writing, but I have thought much
of you all, and the motive of this little as-
sembly. I have throwm a few of my ideas
rapidly together to read to you this after-
noon, agreably to your request. Last meet-
ing a few words were dropped upon dignity
of character, and I wish to define a little
clearer what I comprehend is contained in
these three words. Some imagine pride
and exclusiveness is meant by them, but I
do not so understand them. Dignity of
character is simply self-respect, in which I
see many young girls are deficient; this
arises from thoughtlessness or a poor edu-
cation, that is in early training. One who
possesses this requsite, will be modest and
quiet in her deportment, will never be
guilty of rudeness to any one, even her
young associates; will be ever respectful to
her parents and teachers or persons older
than themselves, and consequently more
experienced. They will enter all places
quietly and with respect, especially any
place set apart for the worship of God.
They will behave in like manner during
the service, leaving the house in the same


quiet manner, and I want you to remember
that very few boys would be rude if girls
conducted themselves with grace and dig-
nity; women and girls make and control
manners in a great measure, and they also
have a mighty and powerful influence in
forming morals; you can scarcely realize in
how great a degree; but try it my young
sisters with your boy-friends, and see if
they will not respond to your good man-
ner, and respect and esteem you for them.
Try it and years hence you will remember
my words, and say I spoke truth. A lady
is not made by fine clothes, or a fine house,
by no means. She may be clothed in home-
ly apparel, and have a very humble dwell-
ing, but if she respects herself and her as-
sociates, in which consists "dignity of
character" she shows that she is a true lady;
and no one has a right to that title but
those who earn it. You need not be pre-
cise, formal or repellant. No, show that
you are a happy and contented girl by your
pleasant, free, agreable manners, and you
will then be known as a young lady possess-
ing "dignity of character."
					HANNAH T. KING.
Jan. 23, 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., Jan. 22, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to add my testimony with that of
others in this good work that we as a band
of sisters in Utah are engaged in, for the
building up of the kingdom of our Father
in this last dispensation. I know the Lord
has revealed His will again to the human
family, to all that will obey His Gospel. We
the Sisters of Moroni feel to respond to the
counsel of our prophet, and feel thankful
that we have one who is able to warn us of
what is coming to pass. Sisters I know
what it is to be without a leader, I realized
it in Nauvoo for a short season, when our
prophet was slain in Carthage Jail; I was
an eye witness to those terrible scenes at
Nauvoo. O sisters, what a time that was
to look upon. Then we had to seek a home
in the mountains, where nobody else would
live, but thank God it was prepared for His
people. I rejoice that I have a home with
them, although I stand almost alone, only
my children with me, my husband died
when I came out from Nauvoo in 1847 but
I thank God that I am here if I am alone.
Well sisters let us do what we can in the
Grain Movement. The sisters of the Mo-
roni Relief Society are doing what they can
this year, in that direction, and if the Lord
assists and blesses us with another good
crop we will feel exceedingly thankful.
We have made a good beginning and our
Bishop is very kind and has given us a
place to store it in the Tithing Office until
we can build, and the brethren will, I hope,
help us, according to President Young's
suggestions. We feel strong as a band of
women, and hold our meetings once in two
weeks, a good spirit prevails and all seem
alive to their duties. It has been my lot to
do hard work more than writing, all my
life.
	I hope the Lord will add His blessing un
to us all; and may prosperity attend Israel,
is my prayer in the name of Jesus Amen.
						SARAH JOLLY.


"SAM[-]O, where's your master?" "Gone
out." "Has he left off drinking yet?" "O
yes, he leave off three times this morn-
ing."


EXTRACTS FROM THE WRITINGS OF 
	ALPHONSE DE LAMARTINE:
		HIS IDEAS OF ST. PETER'S
				AT ROME.

	St. Peter's is the work of an idea, of a
religion, of the human mind in its entire
extent at one period of the world. It is no
longer an edifice destined to contain a vile
people, which we are considering. It is an
edifice destined to contain all the philoso-
phy: all the prayers, all the grandeur, all
the thoughts of man. The walls seem to
rise and to swell out no longer in the pro-
portions of a nation, but in the proportions
of a God! St. Peter's is truly an apotheo-
sis in stone, a monumental transfiguration
of the religion of Christ. The architects
of the gothic cathedrals were sublime bar-
barians, Michael Angelo alone is a philoso-
pher in his conceptions. St. Peter's is
philosophical Christianity, from which the
divine architect banishes superstition and
shadows, and into which he introduced
space, beauty, symmetry and floods of in-
extinguishable light. The incomparable
beauty of St. Peter's at Rome, consists in
in its being a Temple which may be used
by all worshippers—a God-like Temple, if I
may venture to employ that word in rela-
tion to stone. It seems destined to clothe
the idea of God in all the splendor of which
it is capable.
	Were Christianity to perish, St. Peter's
would still remain a universal, eternal, and
rational Temple of whatsoever religion
should succeed the worship of Christ, pro-
vided that religion were of humanity and
of God. It is the most abstract Temple
which the human genius, inspired by a di-
vine idea, has ever constructed here below.
When a visitor enters it he knows not
whether he is entering an ancient or a mod-
ern Temple; no details obstruct the eye, no
symbols distract the thoughts; men of all
sects and creeds enter it with the same re-
spect. They feel that it is a Temple which
can only be inhabited by the idea of God;
and which no other idea can fill.
	Change the Priest, take away the altar,
pull down the pictures, carry off the stat-
ues, nothing is changed, it is still the
House of God, or rather St. Peter's is in
itself alone, the grand symbol and type of
that eternal christianity, which, possessing
in its morality, and in its holiness the germ
of the successive developments of the re-
ligious ideas of all ages and of all men, ex-
pands along with the human reason in pro-
portion as God develops it, holds commun-
ion with God in the light, spreads wide,
and towers aloft in proportion of the human
mind, as the latter expands unceasingly,
and collects all nati[---] into the unity of
one adoration, every [---] more and more
rational, shapes out of all divine, forms one
God alone, and out of all nations one only
humanity. Michael Angelo is the Moses of 
architcetural Catholicism, and as such he
will one day be understood. He has erect-
ed an imperishable ark for future times, a
pantheon of reason purified and rendered
divine.


A SEVERE RETORT.—Fletcher, the Bish-
op of Nismes, was the son of a tallow-
chandler.  A proud duke once endeavored
to mortify the prelate by saying, at a levee,
that he smelt of tallow; to which the other
replied: "I am the son of a tallow-chandler,
'tis true; and if your lordship had been the
same, you would have remained a tallow-
chandler all the days of your life."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Editors.

 Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00 one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the pick of nine, Advertising
rates: Each squarc, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
 Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
 Address all business communications to:
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1877.


EXCELLENCE.
	It is scarce expected in this probationary
sphere that any person will be perfect. Faults
and foibles seem to be the accompaniments to
whatever merit human nature is capable of at-
taining. In many different positions and pla-
ces weaknesses are more plainly apparent be-
cause the person occupies prominence, and the
whole community look on and judge, watch
and criticize. Not only is this true as regards
those who hold offices and positions of power
and trust, it is also true of editors and writers.
	It would be advisable for some of those per-
sons who are so ready to judge and condemn,
if they would for a moment, "Put themselves
in his (or her) place." It is just possible that
they might not think it such an easy task to
please everybody. Although we desire to keep
in the direct channel of purity and truth, and
pray that we may be guided right, we must
leave the success of our efforts as "Bread cast up-
on the waters;" and if we are blamed and scof-
fed and sneered at what of it? It is but a
breath, and when we are sure our motives and
efforts are to sustain those divine principles
which will lead all who obey them back into
the presence of God the Father, what need we
care if we are not understood by those who do
not see as we do? Pope said,
"Let such teach others who themselves excel,
And censure freely who have written well."
	Our paper aims to represent the true senti-
ments of the women of the church of Latter-
day Saints, in strict accordance with the spirit
and interests of the Gospel. We have no de-
sire or ambition to achieve the transient honor
or praise of the world outside of that. "Vault-
ed ambition overleaps itself." And all who
are seeking the applause of the world should
consider how changing is the tide of human
affairs.
	Humility is the safest condition for one's
self; devoid of that, even genius and talent lose
half their excellence.
	We desire not only to be just but charitable,
acting after the pattern of the Golden Rule "To
do unto others as we would wish them to do
unto us;" but we will if possible at all times
maintain the right. Our paper is not the re-
pository or receptacle of all the ramblings of
persons who have no knowledge of principle.
 We do not publish everybody's ideas and
opinions, it would be utterly inconsistent, if
we did. It is our object to disseminate such
principles as are elevating and purifying in
their nature and practise. The interest of home
institutions, organizations and improvements,
particularly among women, are what we con-
sider it our duty to represent truthfully, re-
gardless of the aspersions and criticisms of
those who would impugn our sincerity and
earnestness.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


REPORT OF THE DEDICATION OF
 THE KAYSVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY
 HOUSE, Nov. 12, 1876.

	Present—Presidents D. H. Wells, John Tay-
lor, and Joseph F. Smith; Bishop C. Layton
and counsel, the officers of the Society, and a
whole house full of Saints. The choir sang,
"This house we dedicate to Thee."
 Dedication prayer by Elder John Taylor as
follows:
 "O God the Eternal Father in the name
of Jesus of Nazareth we present our-
selves before thee at this time; we have assem-
bled in this place for the purpose of dedicating
this hall which has been built for a Relief So-
ciety house wherein thy daughters and hand-
maids may meet to attend to the various du-
ties devolving apon them in a quorum capac-
ity; we ask O God that thy blessing may be
with us on this occasion, and that the words
we may say may be dictated by thy spirit.
We have gathered together in this place to
dedicate and set apart this house unto thee; and
we ask that thy blessing may rest upon us.
 We dedicate this house and all its surround-
ing unto thee. The ground on which it stands
we dedicate unto the Lord of Hosts, to be holy
unto thee, the stone, the mortar, and every-
thing that enters into its composition--the
brick, the lime the sand, and all the various
articles that enter into its composition, that it
may be sacred and holy, the boards and nails
of the floor, and the joists it rests upon, and
everything connected therewith, we conse-
crate and make holy unto the Lord our God.
We dedicate the roof, the shingles, the nails,
the rafters and sheeting, and everything con-
nected therewith unto the Lord; also the ceil-
ing, the plaster, the lath and lime, and every-
thing connected therewith we sanctify and
make pure unto the Lord God of Hosts. We
dedicate the doors, the windows, the frames
and fastenings thereof, the glass the putty, the
paint, and everything that enters into the com-
position of this house to be sanctified and holy
unto thee our God; and we ask that thy spirit
may dwell here, and that pure principles may
dwell here; and when thine handmaids shall
meet to perform any duty or office, may thy
spirit be with them, to direct, enlighten, and
assist them, and whatever office or calling they
shall undertake, we ask, O God, that their acts
and sayings may be such as God and angels
will approve. We dedicate this house for the
purpose for which it was designed. May thy
daughters and handmaids feel it a delightsome
place to assemble in. Bless also the young sisters
in their organizations; may thy peace be here,
and the spirit of God to attend them in their
administration. Bless the Bishops, the Elders,
the Priests, the Teachers, and the Deacon's,
and all thy servants in the Holy Priesthood,
and whosoever has built or contributed toward
the building of this house. Bless the sisters
in their labors in providing for the poor, coun-
seling or instructing or whatsoever they may
set their hands to do.
 We now dedicate this house and ourselves
unto thee, and all who shall take part in the
labors therein. Lead them we pray thee in
the paths of life, and ultimately save us in thy
CELESTIAL KINGDOM, we ask it in the name of
Jesus. Amen."
 Remarks by Elder John Taylor; I remember
the organization of the first Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Emma Smith was president and sis-
ter Whitney, (wife of Bishop Whitney,) and
sister Cleveland were her counselors. Eliza R.
Snow was secretary and Elvira Cole treas-
urer. A good spirit prevailed, and the pro-
phet Joseph spoke on the occasion. Some time
after Emma got sorely tried. It was the time
when men were commanded to take more wives
It made us all pull pretty long faces sometimes,
it was not so easy as one might think. When
it was revealed to us it looked like the last end
of Mormonism. For a man to ask another
woman to marry him required more self-confi-
dence than we had. I will not confess the sins
of others but I will tell you some of my own.
I was riding out one day by the old grave yard
where I met Joseph. Said he to me, 'Elder
Taylor stop, look at me,' speaking of the reve-
lation lately given on CELESTIAL MARRIAGE,
he said, 'These things must be entered into or
the keys will be turned, and the church of God
go on no further.'
 There was nothing previous to that revela-
tion by which men and women could be joined
together for eternity. We had a good religion
to live by, but it would not do to die by. We
were not prepared to inherit a celestial glory
without doing the works of Abraham, for the
man is not perfect without the woman, nor
the woman without the man. No mat-
ter what I wished, there was no other expedi-
ent that would answer but to obey the com-
mandment from God. I have talked about it
since that time to senators, congressmen, lords,
nobles and congregations in the prominent
cities of the earth, but have found no one who
could say anything REASONABLE nor SCRIPTU-
AL against it. The United States Govern-
ment has not succeeded in overthrowing
it. God has sustained us, and we have come
off victorious. Many intelligent men look
upon the marital relationship as a problem
which the Mormons will solve, hoping they
will solve it successfully, because the intelli-
gent men I speak of know the nation is going
to the bad. But to return to my subject about
Emma Smith. Emma Smith, at first profess-
ed having faith in the revelation on celestial
marriage, but afterwards forsook it, using her
influence to pervert the minds of the sisters,
and set them against it. She tried it with my
wife. The sisters in these days are like some
of the wives of the patriarchs of old. There
was some trouble in their families we are told
in the Bible. The good sisters in Nauvoo said
'they believed the revelation, but—But
what? But as the Savior said, 'if it is possible
let this cup pass, but Thy will be done, no
mine.'
 My wife told me many things Emma Smith
had told her.  When I met Joseph I said, Bro-
ther Joseph, do you know that sister Emma
has been talking thus and so to my wife, and
telling her such and such things, and said that
you have denied the revelation yourself? Said
Joseph, "Brother Taylor, sister Emma would do
throne Jehovah himself, if she could, for the
accomplishment of her purposes."
 Women in these associations should not use
their position and power to pervert good; if
they do so, evil is sure to follow and come on
their own heads. When the sisters come to a
place of this kind they ought to feel the spirit
of their mission, enter into the sympathies
of the people, consider the wan[-]s of the
poor and provide for them, and n[-]ver never,
entertain harsh feelings towards on another,
but forgive as they would be forgi[-]en.  Wo-
men any more than men, have no right to
speak evil; a great deal is committed to their
care, they are required to train their child-
ren in the [-]ays of God. And what honer is 
theirs if they only seek it. We should not
let our children see in us actions, or hear
from us words that we would be ashamed of
again. When your husbands are absent you


[Column 1]

sisters should ask God's blessing that He
should lead you in the paths of life, and fur-
ther, you should lay hands on your sick child-
ren and rebuke diseases in faith and power
and God will hear you. Let us fear God and
work righteousness, and I pray that the spirit
of peace, and the blessing of God may rest
and abide with you in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Prest. D. H. Wells:—The Relief Society of
this place has performed a very creditable
work. The sisters are coming up towards the
mark in their sphere of usefulness, more than
they have been. They are a power in Israel,
and a great one, too. It has bren said by the
world that the women in Utah were kept in
subjection and bondage by the male sex, and
that if they were enfranchised they would
liberate themselves &c. They were enfran-
chised, and I am glad that the sisters by their
works show that they appreciate their privi-
leges. They have done exactly what I expect-
ed they would do. Our enemies thought the
women would vote down PLURAL MARRIAGE.
	The sisters are quite a power in the wards in
assisting the bishops. Some of our city bish-
ops say they would not know what to do, now,
without the aid and assistance of the sisters in
looking after the poor, and other duties; to some
it looked curious to have to ask the advice and
aid of the sisters, not only in the duties I have
mentioned, but in taking measures for the
saving and storing of grain. Why should it
be? Should a famine come the women would
have to suffer hunger as well as the men. In
saving and storing up grain the men have been
tried for years, but they have continued to let
the grain go; now we want to see if the sisters
will be more successful in storing the grain.
It is a good time now to store up for a time of
need. The grasshoppers are here, and we can-
not tell what they may do. It is wisdom that
we should treasure up our grain. The sisters
have the power to help us in doing this.
These things are within the province and law-
ful sphere of the sisters' Relief Societies. The
women are just as much interested as the men
are and their salvation and welfare are just as
much concerned. I like to see the sisters bear
their proportion of the labors of the kingdom,
that they may share in its blessings. Women
are more susceptible of receiving the truth
than men. More women in proportion
obey the gospel than men. I merely state this
as a fact which has come under my observa-
tion, and I believe that they have a more re-
fining influence in a community; they might
extend this influence in many ways. For in-
stance, the girls could resolve never to marry
a man who is addicted to vicious or degrading
habits. This would have a good tendency, I
think, to prevent drunkeness and rowdyism,
the use of tobacco. etc., although it is the duty
of our young men to abstain from these habits
without such an incentive.
	Marriage is very important. Our women's
Societies should seek to reform our young men.
It might hurt the feelings of a young sister to
risk losing the man she likes, but you may de-
pend upon it, that a man will be more apt to
reform before marriage than after. I cannot
blame a woman for leaving a man who will
continue to be a drunkard. Drunkenness
brings ruin and degradation to the family.
The drunkard destroys his family, sacrifices
house, home and interests, until, finally, he
kills himself, and leaves his family in poverty.
It is a true saying that there are many men
in the world who deserve no wife at all, and
the time will come when they will not have
wives.
	This house is a credit to the sisters of Kays-

[Column 2]

ville. I hope they will work harmoniously
together for the best purposes. Can we
really find a people on the earth who will
uphold the principles of the gospel, and bring
up their children in the nurture and admoni-
tion of the Lord, and sustain his kingdom that
it may stand and abide forever? Yes the time
has come when it will be done. With this
people and those who will spring from them,
and through their instrumentality, the Lord
will establish his kingdom and sustain it on
the earth. The children of this people who
have been trained in the light of the gospel
will bear off the kingdom, though many of
them may go to destruction, the remainder
will stand faithful to the end. In so doing
they will have to withstand temptation.
	We need to become self-sustaining, who is
better qualified than the sisters to bring this
about? The kingdom of God, like any other
kingdom, requires space, territory, and people
to be subjects of it. Building, manufacturing,
agriculture, etc., are just as much needed in it,
as in any other kingdom, and any man or wo-
man who is engaged in any of these callings
with pure motives, is just as much on a mis-
sion as if preaching the gospel. Every man,
woman and child has a mission. What was
God's purpose in bringing us here at this par-
ticular time? One purpose was for us to obtain
tabernacles for our spirits to dwell in; another
is for us to pass through the ordeal and prove
our integrity; another is to establish a holy
and righteous seed in the earth, and to sustain
those principles of salvation that God has re-
vealed and will reveal. The accomplishment
of these purposes requires determination, skill,
application and perseverance. In carrying out
some of these purposes women are indispensa-
ble; in others they can render great assistance.
It is their glorious mission. Let us go forth
then, and let this be our motto "God and His
Kingdom before all other things." The mere
fact that we are engaged in this work is a tes-
timony that we are different to all other peo-
ple.
	We are rapidly increasing in numbers and
strength in these valleys, spreading abroad
and becoming a mighty nation in the midst of
the desert, which has been made to blossom as
the rose, as the prophets foretold. Whenever
we want to find a country for saints to dwell
in we have to seek out such places as Utah
and Arizona.
	Are we growing in the principles of the gos-
pel in proportion to our increase in numbers
and substance? Are we preparing to be self-
sustaining while Babylon falls, or are we drift-
ing after Babylon? These matters belong to
the duties of Relief Societies; so does the pre-
serving and storing of the fruits and grains of
the earth for our sustenance. The men have
been and are selling all the grain to pay mer-
chants, bills, etc., should a famine come it will
be a terrible thing. We could hardly bear to
see our friends and neighbors suffer for the
want of food, and should they have to depend
on us, they will be a heavy tax on us. The in-
stinct of many animals and insects impels
them to hoard up food for winter; why should
not the human race do the same?
	God bless us all, and particularly you, my
sisters, and help you to continue in the good
work you have begun, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"I HAVE turned many a woman's head,"
boasted a young nobleman of France.
"Yes," replied Talleyrand, "away from
you."


OBITUARIES.

	DIED IN Spanish Fork, Jan. 28, 1877, after
a long and painful illness, Mrs. Jemima Jex,
wife of William Jex. She lived and died a
true Latter-day Saint.
	Died, in the Sugar House Ward, Jan. 13th,
1877, of puerperal, after an illness of ten days,
Martha Ann, beloved wife of Bishop Wm, C.
A. Smoot, daughter of Perriguene and Julia
Sessions, born Sept. 20, 1834. The deceased
came to the valley in 1847, and was married to
Wm. C. A. Smoot January 29, 1852, by Prest.
B. Young.
	She was a loving, kind and faithful wife and
mother, devoting her whole life to the welfare
of her family. Her worth cannot be too high-
ly appreciated, and her early death is deeply
mourned by her loving, bereaved husband,
children and friends, who know her worth.
	She was the mother of fourteen children—
five sons and nine daughters—three have gone
before her; the youngest, a daughter, fourteen
days old at her death, the eldest, Elder Wm.
C. A. Smoot, is on a mission to England.
	She lived and died a full believer in the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ; attended to all the ordi-
nances which will insure her Eternal life in
the presence of her Father in Heaven, and in
the Morning of the Resurrection, when the
faithful Saints of God shall be brought forth
from their graves, clothed with immortality,
we will meet our beloved and enjoy her society
through an endless eternity.
	"She is not dead, but lives in Christ, the Res-
urrection."	M. T. S.
	Provo, Feb. 23, 1877.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Retrenchment organization has been
called to part with one of its brightest orna-
ments, by the death of our well beloved Secre-
tary, Sister Martha Ann Murray. She was the
daughter of John and Martha Baugh of this
place. Deceased was born in Salt Lake City,
January 22, 1853; her parents moving with her
to Wellsville in 1860, where she resided up to
the time of her death, which occurred on
Wednesday Jan. 24th, 1877. She was a most
exemplary young woman, a true Latter-day
Saint, an obedient daughter, an affectionate
sister, a valuable friend, a faithful wife, and
a useful member of society. For many
years our young sister held the position of
school teacher in our midst, in both day and
Sunday school, her talents and aimable bear-
ing rendering her an object of love to all who
came in contact with her. She was also a
prominent member of the Wellsville choir for
several years, and was elected Secretary of our
Retrenchment Society at its organization,
both organizations sustaining a severe loss at
her removal to a more glorious sphere of ac-
tion. Sister Murray was married Jan. 27th,
1877.
	The whole people of Wellsville followed the
corse to its last resting place and consigned it
to mother earth with many tears and regrets.
Her troubles were short on this earth, may her
happiness be eternal. A singular coincidence
in connection with the birth, marriage and
death of sister Martha, is that they all occur-
red, in the month of January.
	M. E. W.


IF a spoonful of yeast will raise fifty cents
worth of flour, how much will it take to
raise funds enough to buy a barrel with?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	MILL CREEK, S. L. Co., Feb. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our honored President Mrs.
I. J. Walters, I will undertake to write
you a brief report of the proceedings of our
Retrenchment Association. On account of
the resignation of our former president,
we were reorganized Feb. 16, 1876: the As-
sociation now stands as follows: Mrs. I. J.
Walters, president, Misses E. Carlisle, Jan-
net Park, Sarah A. Walter s Adelade How-
ard, Amelia B. Morgan and Mrs. Clara J.
Hawley, Counselors; Misses Melinda H.
North and Mary E. Spencer, Secretaries;
Mrs. Margaret M. Spencer, Superintendent.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks
and those of the girls who attend seem to
take quite an interest in the meetings and
are united.
	In our Superintendent we have a good
and able counselor, in whom we have entire
confidence; she teaches us many good and
useful things concerning our religion,
and also how to walk in our every day lives.
Our President takes great interest in the
Association and is fully alive to her duties.
We take the EXPONENT in our Association
and read selections from it and the Church
Works in our meetings. On the 16th of
Dec. last, we had a social party, which was
conducted in Leap Year style, being man-
aged especially by the young ladies of the
Association; beginning at 3 p. m. and
closing at 11 o'clock in the evening. There
was a full attendance and all seem satisfied
at the close, having had an enjoyable time.
The proceeds of the party are to be used by
the Association to buy grain.
	On the 24th of Jan. We were favored
with a visit from Mrs. Zina D. Young, and
Mrs. E. S. Barney. They gave us excellent
instructions on various subjects. Caution-
ed the girls never to say anything against
Plural Marriage, and exhorted them to be
self-sustaining as far as possible. They also
gave us some instructions pertaining to silk
culture; thought we might just as well dress
in silk as cotton. They exhibited some
specimens of beautiful silk fringe which
had been made to use in ornamenting the
St. George Temple, also a silk handker-
chief of home manufacture, all from the ele-
ments of Utah. Referred to the Woman's
Book. Gave us some instructions upon
prayer, showing the manner in which it
should be conducted etc.; spoke against
round dancing, thought the young people
had better listen to the counsel of a man of
seventy-five years experience and profit
there-by. Upon the whole we had an
excellent meeting a good spirit having per-
vaded throughout. All went away feeling
that they had beeu more than repaid for
coming.
	Hoping that ere long we will have anoth-
er visit from the fountains head, and wish-
ing success to all institution of improve-
ment, we remain your sisters,
	ISABELLA WALTERS, Prest.
	M. H. NORTH,
	M. E. SPENCER,	Secy's.

	PLEASANT GROVE, Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual Meeting Feb. 1st,
there were a goodly number of ladies in
attendance, also Bros. Thomas Wooley,
Lewis Harvey, and James Ballenger, who
came by invitation of our President Mrs.
E. Brown.
	Opened by prayer singing and the usual

[Column 2]

reading of minutes and the annual report.
After a few remarks by Mrs. E. Brown, the
meeting was ably addressed by the brethren
named above; they spoke highly of the ef-
fort the sisters are making in saving grain.
Thought perhaps that President Young in-
tended to shame the brethren for their
slackness in obeying couusel, for many
years he has been trying to have the people
lay up the grain. Was pleased to see
the Society progressing their little mites
were accumulating to a great amount with
which they might be able to do a great deal
of good; spoke of our living in unity and
oneness and trying to keep all the command-
ments of God; gave many good counsels
that will long be remembered by all who
had the pleasure of hearing them.
	Report of the year ending Jan. 17 1877.
	Received, in sundries, donation, and div-
	edends from store..................	$	115 57 1/2
	Cash.......................................		  11 20
	Disbursed for fencing and
	plowing lots...........................		234 95
	To the poor.............................		  55 75
	For the Temple.......................		  50 00
	Organ for Meeting House......		  13 50
		Capital Stock:
	Shares in Co-op Store............		515 38
	Provo Factory.........................	118 00
	Three City lots........................	400 00
	Property in the treasury...........	  55 75
		Total				$    1080 13
	President Mrs. E. Brown then addressed
the meeting; said that through unavoidable
circumstances we did not commence saving
grain as soon as we wished to; but we have
selected our purchasing committee and
have on hand about sixty bushels of wheat
and are making arrangements to secure
more, if our Heavenly Father blesses us
with a bountiful harvest the coming season,
we will then try to buy up grain enough
that our little ones may not cry for bread;
and some of the beautiful mornings of next
summer the sisters that have agreed to
make a raid on the harvest fields and gath-
er the golden heads of grain that the harvest-
ers have dropped, will be showing by
their presence there they are earnestly en-
gaged in this great work.
	We have three city lots fenced and ready
for growing mulberry trees; some sprouts
that were planted last spring are doing well,
and we expect to plant more this coming
spring.
	May the spirit of God inspire every Lat-
ter-day Saint to do His will that they may
receive His blessings.
	MRS. F. E. STUART,
		Ass’t. Scc’y.

	Minutes of a meeting held in Logan Dec.
5, 1876, for the reorganization of the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association. Meet-
ing having been called to order Mra. Eliza-
beth Benson, president of the Relief So-
ciety of Logan was appointed by unanimous
vote to act as president of the meeting,
Miss Kennie Bailiff, secretary "protem."
	After the usual exercises of singing—and
prayer (by Bishop Preston) the president of
the meeting arose and said she was very
thankful that the sisters had come from S.
L. City, to visit and to reorganize the young
ladies, that she hoped all would be united
in the object before the meeting.
	Mrs. E. Howard then addressed them up-
on the subject and said that the time had
now arrived for the daughters of Zion to
turn their attention to many things pertain-
ing to the interests of the kingdom of God.

[Column 3]

	She counseled the girls especially to keep
the "Word of Wisdom" and to read good
books; gave much excellent instruction.
Miss E. R. Snow said that before proceed-
ing with the reorganization she wanted to
know whether the young ladies wished to
be organized and if so to make it manifest;
the vote being unanimous, it was then
moved, seconded and carried that Miss El-
len Ricks be appointed president, and
Misses Sarah J. Card and Caroline Olsen,
Counselors; Miss Lydia Crochett, Secretary,
Miss E. R. Snow then explained that as
the president chosen was absent, and it was
her privilege to choose her counselors her-
self, it would be wise to leave the choosing
of the other Counselors until the president
herself was present. She also advised them
to choose a Treasurer. Miss Snow then
continued her remarks by explaining the
many ways in which the young sisters
could make themselves useful and help in
building up the kingdom of God. She en-
joined upon them punctuality in attending
their meetings, and to be united together
in whatever they undertook. Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, president of the Weber Co. So-
cieties spoke very encouragingly to the
young girls, advised them to be ever kind
and obedient to their mothers and do all
they could to help and comfort them. Mrs.
Zina D. Young then spoke a few words, she
did not wish to detain them, thought the
time had been well spent, but would like
to advise the girls to set out mulberry cut-
tings and raise silk-worms, thus making a
small beginning towards the manufacture
of silk.
	The meeting closed by benediction from
Bishop Preston.
	Since the meeting mentioned above the
remaining officers have been chosen: Mrs.
Emeline Jones, and Misses Esther Leish-
man, Ruth Clarkson, Martha Bittens, Coun-
selors; Miss Julia Baliff. Ass't Sec'y., and
Miss Isabella Davidson, Treasurer.


SILK RAISING IN UTAH.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The interesting subject of silk raising is
of much importance; and silk may be cul-
tivated as a profitable industry to many of
the inhabitants of this community; the
mulberry tree will grow in most places in
this Territory. If the cultivation of silk
were commenced by this people generally,
an industry for the rising generation would
be created which would be a source of very
great wealth to them in the near future.
What shall be done to find employment for
the coming generation as well as the pres-
ent? The silk industry would provide
many with profitable labor; silk raising,
reeling and manufacturing would employ
many and profit the community.
	The total manufacture of silk in value, in
1874 in America, was twenty million eighty-
two thousand, four hundred and eighty-two
dollars. Would not Utah do well to make
an effort for her share of this immense in-
come? All industries have their commence-
ment, and should have their progress. The
following is said to be a report for 1874:
"Of the different branches of the silk in-
dustry, thrown and spun silk embrace
twenty-six establishments, half being
in New Jersey, with machinery of one
thousand and three horse power, one hun-
dred and twenty-nine thousand, one hun-
dred and seventy-eight throwing spindles;
the number of hands employed in 1874,
was four thousand and twenty-six; amount
of wages paid, nine hundred and forty-five


[Column 1]

thousand, seven hundred and ten dollars;
capital invested, forty-one million two hun-
dred and fifty-two thousand, one hundred
and fifty-two dollars; total product, three
million, eight-hundred and sixty-two thou-
sand, three hundred and twenty-five dol-
lars; including tram and organzine, two
million, nine hundred and eleven thousand
and fifty-five dollars; spun silk, eight hun-
dred thousand dollars; fringe silk, one hun-
dred and nine thousand, two hundred and
seventy dollars, and floss silk, fourty-three
thousand dollars; total weight of product,
five hundred and forty thousand, eight hun-
dred and four pounds."
	This extraordinary and stupendous pro-
duction had its origin, like all other indus-
tries; and other places may follow after and
progress. New Jersey, like many other
places in times past had no silk industry;
but according to preceding facts, immense
wealth has been accumulated. Tooele is a
very fine location for the silk industry, as
well as many other localities. Many of the
people in Tooele no doubt, are very favora-
ble to the cultivation of silk, and we hope
soon to see them commence in the cultiva-
tion of it.
	Salt Lake City has set a good example,
and all other places would do well to form
working committees. One acre of mulberry
trees planted two feet distant in rows and
six feet asunder will be three thousand,
four hundred trees, which method is prob-
ably as good as any (Mr. Hoag, of California,
planted as above stated, and raised two
thousand dollars worth of silk to the acre.)
	Suppose that fifty pounds of silk is raised
to the acre, and worth when reeled twelve
dollars per pound, fifty multiplied by twelve
makes six hundred dollars worth of silk.
The manufacturers will give twelve dollars
per pound reeled, and when it is manufac-
tured into silk goods is worth eighteen dol-
lars per pound, when sold to wholesale pur-
chasers then twenty per cent is added to the
eighteen dollars, which makes twenty-one
dollars and sixty cents. and then the retail
sellers mostly add about thirty per cent,
which makes five dollars and forty cents
more to the first cost, making a total of
twenty-seven dollars.
	Fifty pounds of silk sold at twelve dollars
per pound reeled, is worth a hundred dollars,
when the manufacturer's pay is added and
twenty per cent added by wholesale pur-
chasers makes one thousand and eighty
dollars, then the retailers cost added
amounts to one thousand four hundred and
four dollars. Any family or community,
who have the facilities to raise and reel and
manufacture the productions of one acre of
silk may make a satisfactory profit in its
cultivation. The question is asked is there
any money in it? Undoubtedly there is
wherever there is a market for its sale; if
one thousand dollars in silk can be raised
per acre, which is only one half that has
been accomplished in California; the manu-
facturers will add about one third for their
remuneration, which will then amount to
one thousand five hundred dollars, and add-
ing in this case sixty per cent for the whole-
sale and retail profits, will run up the amount
to about two thousand four hundred dollars.
Those who understand the wholesale and
retail charges in trade, will not think this
calculation overrated.
	 No time ought to be lost in commencing
this valuable industry. The object to be ac-
complished, is to raise, reel and manufac-
ture the silk and then all the benefit of it
will be secured.
	If Mr. Hoag's treatise on silk raising
were read, very much information would
be obtained. Improvement will continue to

[Column 2]

be made in silk as well as in all other
branches of business, until it arrives at a
good standard of perfection.
	JAMES I. STEEL
Lakeview, Tooele Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WHAT TO DO WITH OLD MAIDS.

	What 900,000 English, and 30,000 Yan-
kee old maids—"What shall become of us
poor old maids?" It does seem to me that
this subject is more asked about than acted
upon. Woman's Suffrage, Woman's Rights,
Woman's influence, Woman in office, etc.
	Now it has always been a matter of won-
der with me that man, woman, or sensible
child, should be troubled to find occupation,
in this busy, bustling world. I have always
recommended to persons out of employ-
ment to take right hold of the first thing
they saw in their way that was left undone
by some one else. But few persons like to
do this. Their habits always having been
to reach after that business which pays best,
and is easiest on the muscles. We have a
fine variety of examples of this in S. L.
City. I have, when visiting there, been
much amused at the little "world displayed"
on Main Street. Being a country woman,
I read the signs, cards and shingles, and al-
so listen with wonder to the multitude of
voices; men from every nation under hea-
ven trailing out here after the Mormons—
and I have said to myself "what went ye
out into the wilderness to see?" Eager,
anxious restless ones why are you here?
I look not at surplus women, nor surplus
children, but surplus humanity. When I
see vast unappropriated resources, and a
vast number of people not well employed;
or perhaps not employed at all, I marvel as
an American should marvel, at the leg-
islation which does not lay hold upon such
as have no means of support and regulate
their conditions and relieve the country
of vagrants and beggars, and bring in a
revenue to the government.
	Coming back to the matter, the unmar-
ried, and perhaps very sensible ladies refer-
red to. The English people we have noth-
ing to do with, and therefore need not af-
flict ourselves on their account. The sub-
ject I would discuss is our own nation of
people. As to matrimony nothing on earth
is worse than a bad marriage. Let that go
by for the time; 30,000 unmarried women
in a country where there is the most intel-
ligent class of inhabitants, is no misfortune,
In my judgment there is a finer opening
for enterprises for women now, than ever
before.
	Were I of the class referred to by Bessie
Bramble, I would surely make an effort to
induce Government to take the same inter-
est in her White children as her Black or
Red ones. I would lend my utmost ability
to the work, feeling that it was a mission
from divine authority and must succeed.
	Look through our Eastern cities and see
if Victor Hugo could not find children of
the street there as well as in Paris. Why
might not these honorable unmarried women
of the world combine together, petition
government to set them off a tract of land
and lend them at first other necessary aid
and protection. Go into the large manu-
facturing districts in the heart of this na-
tion and gather out mechanical talent, the
starving, helpless ones, possessed of bone
and sinew and muscle, who are now out of
employment, and found a colony on some of
the vast expanses of unoccupied land where
soil is fertile, the climate medium, water
plenty, and timber, perhaps coal, near at
hand. Women of intelligence and ability,
such as the unmarried women of America

[Column 2]

attain in the present day, could, with tact,
energy and their indomitable perseverance,
so manage as to divide to every class of tal-
ent its peculiar business or work, and every-
thing be done upon a systematic principle.
When Romulus founded Rome he so divid-
ed the community, the Army, Agriculture
and Arts, that they were justly proportioned
and all were defended, all were sustained,
and all were employed.
	When Solomon built the Temple and en-
riched Jerusalem, he simply so divided the
people that there was no idle surplus, and
there ought not to be in our country a sur-
plus of even one child ten years old that is
in good health.

	Why should there be a question of What
shall 30,000 unmarried ladies do, if they
have got pluck and shrewdness enough and
will work together and pioneer, by the as-
sistance government may lend them, a vast
unsettled country. Of course it will take a
strong determination and undaunted cour-
age, but they will be so engrossed in their
work, and anxious to accomplish the pur-
pose designed, that there will be no time to
bemoan their unhappy fate.
	Having obtained the consent and protec-
tion of government, gather up the desti-
tute children and take them where they
may labor and live, where they may be
taught honesty and virtue, for is it not a
disgrace and a blemish upon the escutch-
eon of this nation that there are thousands
of helpless children in this boasted land of
liberty and freedom, with its unoccupied
millions of acres of fertile lands, crying to
starving mothers for bread?
	Gather up these little innocent ones as a
hen gathereth her chickens under her
wings, and call them from degradation and
hunger to honest labor, education and hap-
piness, and of you then, will it not be said,
"Thy children shall make haste." Lift up
thine eyes and behold all these gather to-
gether and come unto thee; "Sing, O bar-
ren, thou that didst not bear, for more are
the children of the desolate than the chil-
dren of the married wife. Enlarge the
place of thy tent and stretch forth the cur-
tains of thine habitations, and make the
desolate places to be inhabited," by the vo-
taries of virtue, honor, peace and plenty,
who would otherwise, perhaps, continue in
vice, beggary or crime.
	There is a place, ladies, for your neglect-
ed talents; see if there is among you Wo-
man's Rights Advocates' statesmanship to
found a colony and return money to the
treasury by the results of your Political and
Economical ability.
	My hands are full of work (as for me I am
not surplus), and so are those of every Lat-
ter-day Saint that is living her religion, but
for the world at large no better plan than
this could be entered upon, granting that
Government would lend such patronage as
it is willing to give to fallen races.
	Share no sympathy with such benevolent
societies as give money to the poor; it en-
courages idleness and beggary, and is sim-
ply ruinous to a child's sense of morality
and honor. It implants in the minds of
children that the poor are to live by gift
and patronage from the rich. Give money
only to the sick and aged, to others the
privilege of honest labor and honest pay.
Cast out from any community waste and
extravagance, and keep God's command-
ments, observing "Six days shalt thou la-
bor," and so forth.
	These are, Mrs. Editor, the honest
thoughts and convictions of a
		COUNTRYWOMAN.
	York Station, Jan. 14, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

	GUNNISON, Feb. 4, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	According to the instructions through the
EXPONENT, given by counsel of President
B. Young, the Relief Society of this place
has commenced to gather grain. By the
help of the Lord and our brethren, we have
at this date got three hundred and forty-
four bushels of wheat in our bin, to which
we anticipate adding weekly, monthly and
yearly, as long as the Giver of all good per-
mits plenty to abound. The brethren as
well as the sisters are wide awake to the
importance of the Grain Movement.
	Our Relief Society contemplates building
a hall and granary, to the erection of which
many of our husbands, sons and brothers
have already kindly and encouragingly of-
fered their aid; and the feeling is prevalent
that the grain gathered, and yet to be gath-
ered, is sacred to the Lord's purposes, and
can only be disbursed when the Lord's own
time comes.
	We feel, that while our husbands are
toiling yearly to raise the "staff" and nec-
essaries of life, it is but consistent, that we
should be as frugal and industrious as possi-
ble; that, far from being encumbrances, we
may be a source of genuine comfort and
strength unto them.
	The EXPONENT is ever welcome, and
ever replete with what we want.
	HELENA MADSEN, Sec'y.

	SPANISH FORK, Feb. 12, 77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have watched and read with interest
the various reports of the Relief Societies,
concerning the storing of Grain; and it gives
me much pleasure to see and hear of the
success which has attended their efforts
while endeavoring to carry out the counsel
of our beloved president and father; the
success which has attended the sisters in
their laudable enterprise, is consequent, no
doubt upon their earnestness in the work,
and their faith in the Gospel and in the
counsel given; being fully assured from a
long experience, that in following and car-
rying out the counsels of the Servants of
God from time, to time, the people have
been exceedingly blessed, both spiritually
and temporally. When I read the counsel
conveyed to me through the pages of our
bright luminary the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
I did truly rejoice, and when it was read
and proposed that we begin to lay up
grain, it was acccepted and received with
joy and thankfulness by the sisters of our
Society, and we felt to thank the Lord for
the inspiration that prompted this counsel,
knowing assuredly that famine and pesti-
lence will desolate the land, and that as
Joseph was sold and banished from his
home and kindred to bring about the pur-
poses of God in saving his brethren and
kindred, so have the Latter-day Saints, even
the seed and royal blood of Joseph, been
banished from their homes, friends and in-
heritances to work out the divine purposes
of God, who maketh even the wrath of
men to praise Him; and as Joseph filled the
granaries of Egypt, so may we fill the
granaries of Utah; thereby proving that we
are noble daughters of a noble Sire.
	We had lumber on hand that we received
for quilts and socks, and have had a bin
made, in which we have over one hundred
bushels of wheat, and still keep adding, and
intend to lay up all we can. Our Society
is in a prosperous condition, and whether

[Column 2]

we meet to work, or to exhort each other,
the spirit of the Lord is with us, and the
spirit of love and unity abounds; and es-
pecially is this spirit manifest in the Teach-
ers; at our meetings they bring in good re-
ports, no contentions or backbiting; and as
a general thing all feel well and desire the
prosperity of the Society.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
am Yours,
	MARY FURGUSON.

	PORTERVILLE, MORGAN Co.,
		Jan. 17, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I take the privilege of conveying a few
lines to tell you how we are getting along
in this little branch. There is a good Re-
lief Society here and we are striving with
our amiable president and her counselors to
do what good we can in carrying out the
counsel given us and trying to be one with
the other societies throughout the Territory.
	In our last meeting the Grain Movement
came into consideration, and the sisters ex-
pressed their willingness to do all in their
power to secure and store away grain. We
have accepted a bin, kindly offered us by
Brother Sanford Porter, and sincerely hope
we will soon see it filled. Two of the sisters
visited around last week, and quite a num-
ber of bushels of grain were donated a foun-
dation to build upon.
	We also have a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association. We are progressing
slowly, and feel that a little instruction
through your valuable paper will be kindly
accepted. We feel that our work in Re-
trenchment must be otherwise directed
than in dress, for our ball-room and Sunday
dresses are manufactured at home, that is,
generally speaking.
	Yours Truly,
	AMY A. PORTER. Sec'y


WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT!
			IS THE 
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
or color the skin, and requires no rubbing.  Recom-
mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
	Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Odgden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	A HOME PREPARATION.
ONLY CITY AGENCIES—llth and 15th Ward Co-op
Stores, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan’s, 7th Ward
Cooper’s, 17th Yard( and Woman’s Commission House.

	AGENTS WANTED.
No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
	IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOLLEN GOODS,
	SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
	FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
	BLANKETS, SHAWLS
	LADIES JACKETS,
	STOCKINGS, YARNS
	SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
	LATEST STYLES OF
	FANCY WORSTED TIES,
 Men’s Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger,
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore,
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
	Leather and other Trunks, Gents’ Fine
	Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
	TabloSalt, Band Boxes and
	Dixie Cotton.

DAVID JAMES,
	(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
	AGENT FOR
	RUMSEY;S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

	Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
	Staple and Fancy

DRY GOODS
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boy's Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
	Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find and the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old fashiones House.

	THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or, style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, all
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds 
on hand.
	Send your orders to                  C. R. SAVAGE,
                                            Salt Lake City, Utah.

Mrs. C. E. DYE
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashion of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
	17, East Temple street
	TEMPLE OF FASHION
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.

	Z. C. M. I. 
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
	FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
	AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 &79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
