
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1876.	No. 1.


For the Exponent.
	ADDRESSED TO MRS. L. B. Y.
			BY REQUEST.

Lady, thou hast asked me to address thee
By the aid of my lov'd poetic lyre!
And humble though it be—and all too weak
To give the diapason of my soul,
Yet I bless—yes, yes, I bless the Giver,
Who has strung my soul with chords so sweet,
That to the mighty touch of nat[-]re they respond,
When love and kindness give the key note full.
Language is poor to demonstrate the heart,
And hence we often represent ourselves
Amiss, where we alone desire to be true;
But Saints see "eye to eye" and comprehend
That grand pulsation, "heart to heart"—and hence
Though poor my language, I will hope to give
The honest feelings of an honest heart.

For years I've known thy face, and musing gazed
Upon it as we gaze upon a star
Away in the blue ether of the summer night,
Or as a picture set for contemplation.

The "human face divine" has ever borne
A mighty charm for my poetic soul—
I love to sit and gaze, and read—and read—
And trace the character that's written there;
And thine was surely in my studio,
Its almost Grecian outline, its features,
Chiseled, classic, chaste and regular,
Such as sculptors choose for models, and to mould;
And the eye—that glorious orb that lights
The human face with fire divine—in thee
Bore calm and gentle rule o'er all the rest;
Such study, Lady, hast thou been to me.
I describe thy face as index of thy soul
Which simply shows the jewel finely set.
Where much is given, much requir'd will be,
And hence RESPONSIBILITY, the head,
The gifted head—humility will bow;
The soul is cognizant of its nobility,
And feels it bears upon its mortal brow
The seal and coronet of Deity!
And hence, the noble strive to grace their high
Descent with deeds that ne'er shall tarnish it;
Their great ambition is to be a Saint,
To bless their God for all He has bestowed,
And hold His gifts, as Stewards hold the wealth
Their master in their hands has placed,
To be accounted for with usury.

Sister, thou wert kind in thy expressions
To my humble self, saying thou did'st desire
We should mingle more, that we might comprehend
Each other better than in days that's past;
To which, most freely doth my heart respond;
I care not for the pompous crowd, all gay
With fashion's vain, interminable maze,
A friend's warm clasp, knowing their heart
A true and faithful heart, which is God's gift,
Is more to me than Croesus could bestow.
Lady, we will meet—and that you thought was pride
In me, I trust will vanish as the sun
Drinks up the morning dew from flow'r and free;
And that we may as two fond sisters be.
							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, May 4th.


[Column 1]
						For the Exponent.
			A TESTIMONY.

	I have long felt it my duty to bear a tes-
timony with the rest of my sisters, and to
publish a written article in defense of the
principles in which we believe, in which
we have lived, and which we continually
advocate by faith and practice.
	I have been a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for over
thirty-six years; have passed through many
trials and persecutions with this people;
have been driven from and robbed of my
home from time to time, together with my
brethren and sisters, and have had my house
plundered by a wicked mob.

[Column 2]
	My husband has been shot at before my
eyes when he was carrying a flag of truce
and conducting two of the enemy's men in-
to their camp. At one time in the State of
Missouri three or four of a mob came into
my house, armed with swords, pistols and
bowie-knives, and demanded to know where
my husband was, and when I refused to be-
tray him into their hands they threatened
to blow out my brains, but finding I would
not comply, they threatened to set fire to
the house, but were prevented by some un-
seen influence. These and similar trials
have the Saints had to endure within the
boundaries of the United States govern-
ment, where freedom and liberty are the
watch-words. But amid all the persecutions
I have been called to pass through, I have
ever felt firm in the principles of my reli-
gion.
	I was compelled to leave my home in Far
West, Missouri, on the 13th of February,
when the snow was deep and the weather
exceedingly cold, and I was unable to sit
up, having been ill for some time from hard-
ship and suffering; I journeyed to Quincy
in that delicate state.
	After heaping upon us and our people
these gross indignities, then the cry is
raised that the women of Utah are in bond-
age; that they are not free to exercise their
own will and judgment; that they only sub-
mit to polygamy through compulsion, and
they arrogate to themselves the power to
undertake to release us from tyranny and
despotism.
	To Mr. Christiancy, and all those honorable
gentlemen who interest themselves so un-
necessarily in our welfare, we would say,
we do not stand in need of any interference
in our behalf; we are not held in bondage,
we are as free as it is possible for us to be
while we have rulers sent here from other
states, who know nothing of our wishes,
our desires, or our determinations to serve
God.
	The women of the Latter-day Saints live
in an element far above the troubles and
anxieties of the women of the world; they
seek the aid and assistance of the Holy
Spirit, and rely upon the arm of the Al-
mighty, trusting in His justice, and believ-
ing, with all their hearts, the promises of
celestial glory and eternal happiness, re-
vealed to this people through the prophets,
if they live in obedience to the require-
ments of that higher law, the law of Celes-
tial Marriage, revealed through the prophet
Joseph.
	It is these promised blessings in the fu-
ture, to which we continually look forward,
that buoy us up under circumstances that,
viewed from a worldly standard, would be
wholly unendurable. For this we are will-
ing to make similar sacrifices to Abraham
when he offered up his only son, believing
and trusting in God that all would be well.
	We rejoice in the principles of plural
marriage, and would not have it otherwise
if we could. To us there is a nobility of
the highest type attainable on earth, coming
through the patriarchal order of marriage.
I, myself, have lived in it for thirty years,
and I believe I loved my husband truly and
devotedly, and was married to him expect-
ing to be his only wife so long as I should

[Column 3]
live; now he has a numerous family, and I
love them and feel a tenderness for them
which is strengthened as years pass by. I
rejoice in their society, in their welfare and
happiness; I feel the same pride in the
children of other wives that I feel in my
own. It is a sacred and holy relationship
instituted by God, and none but those whose
hearts are right before Him, and who desire
to live pure lives, will be able to abide in it.
The Lord said he would try the heart and
assuredly His words must be fulfilled. It
is useless te fight against the kingdom of
God.
	Women understand the principles of
their religion, and are as willing to die for
it as men are. Therefore, we pray you,
spare your (pretended) sympathy extended
to us, we do not need it. We have some-
thing far better than anything you can offer
us. Look to the wives and daughters of
the nation; deal honestly and honorably by
them, and leave us the free exercise of our
religion, which the glorious constitution of
our forefathers so wisely and nobly devised
to protect all.			SARAH D. RICH.
	Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	OF THE thirty-three thousand persons
employed in watch-making in Switzerland,
one-third are women.—Cottage Hearth.
	"THE NEW Republic" is the title of a
new monthly paper established in New
York by E. P. Miller, and others, to advo-
cate currency reform, Woman's Rights, and
other improvements.
	WE ARE informed that Mrs. Secretary
Belknap's name was attached to that re-
markable manifesto which prayed Congress,
a few years ago, to pay no heed to the de-
mands of honest women for their enfran-
chisement.—New Northwest.
	WOMEN WILL hereafter be admitted as
students by the University at Delaware,
Ohio. The Board of Trustees have "re-
solved that ladies, graduates of other
branches of learning, be admitted to the
regular college classes upon passing the re-
quired examinations.
	IN CALIFORNIA, among other women
physicians of the regular school in good
standing in the State Medical Society, are
C. B. Brown, M. D., Sarah E. Brown, M. D.,
M. E. Bucknell, M. D., of San Francisco;
Elise P. Stone, M. D., of Oakland, and E.
S. Meade, M. D., of San Jose.
	THE WOMEN'S Provident and Protective
League of London, have issued the first num-
ber of a little monthly paper entitled the
"Women's Union Journal. It chiefly consists
of reports of the League's movements, and
bears the nominal price of one penny.
	MANY of the female clerks at Washing-
ton once ranked with the aristocracy of the
land. Among many may be found widows
or daughters of army and navy officers of
the highest rank, daughters and grand-
daughters of former members of the Cabi-
net, Senators, Supreme Court Justices and
Presidents.


2		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society meetings are well at-
tended, that is, in comparison with what
they have been in times past; indeed, I
think there never was a time since our first
organization when the sisters have exhibit-
ed more energy and zeal to carry out the
counsel and instructions of the President
and Counselors than they do at the present
time. Pres. Rich takes a deep interest in
our Society, and we are often blessed with
his fatherly counsel and advice at our meet-
ings. We were favored with the presence
of Sister M. I. Horne at some of our meet-
ings, and I can truly say that I never en-
joyed myself better at any meeting that I
ever attended than when listening to her.
Her words were replete with good counsel
and instruction, which, if lived up to, would
be of great benefit to those who had the
pleasure of listening to her. I feel very
thankful that we have the privilege of hav-
ing our sisters visit us from the fountain
head. The members feel inspired with
new life and vigor, and a greater determi-
nation is manifest to persevere in every-
thing which is calculated to purify and enno-
ble our natures, that we may be worthy to
be classed with our sister societies through-
out the Territory. We desire to be one
with them in everything that is good and
useful.
	Sister Horne, while here, organized a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
which is now in a flourishing condition.
The young ladies are, one and all, very
much interested in the meetings, and show a
determination not to be behind in anything
which is calculated to make them worthy
Daughters of Zion. The minutes of their
organization will soon be forwarded by the
Secretary. I would advise all who have
not organized yet to speedily do so, for I
know they serve to exert a good influence
over the minds of our young people. Be-
fore they were organized here there was
scarcely a young girl attended our meetings,
notwithstanding a great influence was used
to prevail upon them to come. But now
what a difference! since they have a Socie-
ty of their own they show a desire to attend
our meetings, and to gain all the knowledge
and instruction which lies in their power,
to prepare them for a life of usefulness in
the kingdom of God.
	The young ladies got up a Leap Year
Party a short time since. Our new school
house was beautifully decorated for the oc-
casion with evergreens, pictures, mirrors,
flags and banners, all very tastefully ar-
ranged, and presented a very beautiful ap-
pearance. Everything was managed in the
best of order, and was said to be the best
party of the season. They have adopted
President Young's advice and round danc-
ing is abandoned; parties commence at two
and dismiss at ten, and they are all quite
reconciled to the change. At first it seemed
rather odd, but the desire to obey the in-
structions of our beloved President over-
came every other consideration. We have
an excellent Sunday School, with about one
hundred and twenty scholars in regular at-
tendance, also two good day schools.
	We have long, cold winters which are
very trying to some, but the people enjoy
excellent health, which in some measure
makes amends for the disadvantages which
they labor under in this cold climate,
and we have plenty of time in our long win-
ter evenings for mental culture, recreations
and social gatherings, which have been im-
proved to the utmost this winter. There

[Column 2]
have been some excellent lectures delivered
here, also some very good performances at
our theatre; in fact, there has been scarcely
an evening throughout the winter but that
our schoolhouse has been lighted, either for
meetings or amusements, of some kind, so
you see we manage to live and enjoy our-
selves, notwithstanding our proximity to
the North Pole.
	Praying the Lord to bless and aid you in
your labors, I remain your sister in the gos-
pel,
				SARAH M. POMEROY,
						Assis't Sec'y.
	Paris, Bear Lake Co., March 15, 1876.

	A report of a meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the 1st Ward, held February 3rd,
1876. There were present on the stand our
Bishop, Joseph Warburton, and one of his
Counselors, Alexander Steel; there was also
a good attendance of the sisters. Pres. Mrs.
M. G. Chase said, "I feel proud to see so
many of my sisters present this afternon; it
makes me feel encouraged, and it also shows
they are trying to live their religion. I
would exhort the sisters to live humble and
prayerful before the Lord, for the day has
come that we must live our religion or step
one side and let others take our places."
	She was followed by quite a number of
the sisters, who expressed their desires to
live their religion and use their influence to
build up the kingdom of God on the earth.
Much good counsel was given and a good
spirit prevailed. Bishop J. Warburton
spoke in a spirited manner, gave the sisters
some good counsel and exhorted them to
live their religion and attend to every duty
that was required of them, especially in
looking after the wants of the poor and
needy; advised them to carry out the coun-
sel given by authority and all would be well
with them. Elder A. Steel made some ex-
cellent remarks. In consequence of Mrs.
Julia Adams and Mrs. Sidney Thayne re-
signing the office of Counselors, because of
removing from the city, Pres. Mrs. M. G.
Chase chose for her Counselors Mrs. Mar-
garet Steel and Mrs. Elizabeth S. Higgs.
It was unanimously voted to sustain them
in that office and they were blessed and set
apart by the Bishop and his counselor. Clos-
ing prayer by Bishop J. Warburton.
	With many earnest wishes for the success
of the EXPONENT, and for the welfare and
upbuilding of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel,
	MRS. MERIAM G. CHASE, Pres't.
	MRS. JANE E. VAN TASSELL, Sec'y.

	DEWEYVILLE, BOX ELDER CO,
					APRIL 3rd, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We, the sisters of Deweyville, were or-
ganized into a branch of the Relief Society,
Aug. 6th, 1875, by Sister Eliza R. Snow Sis-
ter Harriet Snow and Pres. J. C. Dewey, as
follows:
	Mrs. Mary Dewey, President
	"	Mary Marble,	} Counselors.
	"	Amelia Saunders, }
	Mary E. Howard, Secretary.
	Mary Saunders, Assistant Secretary.
	Martha B. Holdaway, Treasurer.
	We had twenty members enrolled. We
meet Thursday afternoon every two weeks,
and enjoy a good degree of the Spirit of
the Lord. Our meetings are well attended,
considering the scattered position  of our lit-
tle settlement, extending ten miles North
and South. We also have a Retrenchment
Association a Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Association. We feel it a great
[Column 3]
privilege and blessing to have societies
where we can meet as a band of sisters and
speak to each other and strengthen each oth-
er in our most holy religion.
	We read a great deal from your excellent
paper and gain from it a great deal of infor-
mation. Our prayers and desires are with
you, together with all the societies-of-the
Saints, in helping to roll on the kingdom of
God.
	We remain your sisters in the church and
kingdom of God,
			MARY DEWEY, President,
		MARY E. HOWARD, Secretary.

			LEHI, May 15th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies of the Retrenchment
Association of this place held their first An-
nual Meeting April 29th, 1876. The meet-
ing was well attended and a good spirit
prevailed. After the usual exercises and
reading of the minutes, a number of the
young ladies expressed their feelings; es-
says were read and recitations given.
	Mrs. Coleman, President, and other offi-
cers and members of the Relief Society
were present. President Mrs. Coleman
spoke of the great privileges we enjoyed;
exhorted us to prepare ourselves to assist
in the great work to be accomplished in the
last days, to pray to the Lord for strength
and he would never forsake us. Mrs. Ann
Evans expressed her pleasure at the progress
the young ladies had made; exhorted us to
keep the word of wisdom in every sense.
Mrs. Davis said we should feel thankful for
the many privileges and blessings we enjoy.
Told us to seek for wisdom, that we might
lay a foundation for future usefulness. Mrs.
Standring said we should set an example
worthy of imitation; that we should be
tried and proven in every way, but if we
put our trust in the Lord, and called upon
His holy name, He would hear, answer, and
bless us. Exhorted us to honor ourselves
and our God, be firm to our integrity, and
retrench from everything wrong or dis-
pleasing in the sight of the Lord; prayed
that we might have wisdom to enable us to
do the will of the Lord. Mrs. Bushman
and Mrs. Gaddie also gave us some good ad-
vice.
	Our Society is prospering, a spirit of union
prevails. The young ladies take great in-
terest in the meetings, and seem desirous
to persevere and overcome all temptation.
			ORINDA DAVIS, President,
			SARAH TAYLOR, Secretary.


THE UNIVERSITY of Edinburgh in Scot-
land has received a collection of Persian,
Arabic and Sanscrit manuscripts. Among
them is a complete copy of the Hindoo epic
poem, "Mahabharata," in the form of a roll,
228 feet long and 5 1/2 inches wide, profusely
illustrated in colors and gold, representing
scenes described in the work. The writing
is very minute, there being 12 lines in every
inch. Another of the manuscripts is a
copy of the "Shah, Nameh" of Firdansi,
the most ancient poem in the modern Per-
sian language, illustrated with paintings
of Oriental scenes. The collection numbers
about 125 volumes, and contains many his-
torical works and firmans.


THERE is often in one kind word, one
look of sympathizing affection, or one small
act of disinterested love, more of real no-
bleness of spirit than in actions which have
rung in the ears, and found an echo in the
hearts of admiring thousands.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	3


A HUSBAND OF THE PERIOD.

Yes, love, I'm breakfasting quite late
	But then, you know, it's Sunday,
And we who work for six long days
	Deserve our comfort one day.
You're rather early home from church;
	I hope you liked the sermon.
That velvet cloak, dear, by the way,
	Looks charming with your ermine.

A chilly morning out of doors:
	I'm glad you didn't wake me/
(Oh, native cutting, mother-wit,
	Pray do not yet forsake me!
She heard me stumble up to bed
	At three o'clock—I'll swear it!)
Dark blue is just your color, dear;
	You always ought to wear it.

I've eaten very little? Yes,
	It's nearly time for dinner:
This cutlet, too, seems rather flat.
(The truth, as I'm a sinner!)
A bloodshot look about my eyes?
	My fingers in a flutter?
All fancy, love—I feel superb.
	(That nauseating butter!)

You waited up last night till twelve?
	For that, dear, I should scold you
Of monthly meetings at the club
	How often have I told you?
This waiting—had I not a key,
	Perhaps I shouldn't mind it;
But having one—By Jove, I took
	An hour, last night, to find it!

I left the hall door open? Who
	Insinuates that slander?
It's falsehood base and infamous,
	If you'll excuse my candor.
Why, love, you trust mere servants' talk
	I cannot well conjecture,
(She seats herself! The storm has burst!
	Now comes my curtain lecture.)


TEN YEARS INTO THE FUTURE.

	What numerous and varied changes will
show themselves in all our surroundings—
what a throng of new facts and faces, will
stare at us when the index on the dial
plate of time points to the closing figure of
the decennial period.
	The scenes of to-day. The dear familiar
scenes through which we have moved since
infancy, endeared to us by so many associa-
tions firmly linked together in the chain of
recollection. All, all must change, nor they
alone. We who view them will change,
and as we advance further into life there
are others behind to fill our places. Like
scenes in a panorama we glide from infancy
to old age. Ten years from hence—to-day
we are a crowd of boys and girls—then,
where and what will we be? Now we have
hopes and desires. Will we ever see them
fulfilled? Will our lives be successes or
failures? These are questions which natu-
rally arise in the minds of the thoughtful
youth of each sex at the beginning of ac-
tive life.
	Here is one of us—one of the boys—
bright, good-natured, witty and intelligent.
An able writer for one so young, and fond
of satire and humor as his writings testify.
His library is composed mostly of satrical
and humorous works, as Swift, Smollet,
and Dickens. His aim is to be an author
and if he lives he will be.
	In fancy I see him in the future, hard at
work in his library, surrounded by books
and papers gathering flowers from the gar-
den of the mind, transferring them to the
fields of literature to enrich the minds of
those who choose to pluck them.
	Another has a taste for literature but
studies with a different object. His desire
is to cultivate the soil, to become an agri-
culturist and utilize the scientific knowledge
he has attained for the successful operation
of his plans in this line of life.


Nothing will suit another but to edit a
paper, to take a stand in the ranks of the
journalistic army and combat with error, and
fight for the good of the human family.
	Here is one of a poetic nature, and has a
desire to leave to the world the gleanings
of his imagination to refine the rougher na-
tures of those who follow him, and whose
admiring praise and gratitude will perpet-
uate his name.
	One has a predilection for the dramatic
stage and the name of S[---]speare is to him
a synonym for all that is great and noble in
human nature.
	I recall to mind many others, some of
like tastes and others entirely different; but
all having some inherent ambitious ideas to
make a mark in the world worthy of com-
mendation.
	Boys, let us hope that our ambitions are
based upon high and intelligent principles,
that our motives are good, and that we may
have grace to make the most of our time
in the accomplishment of them.
	Let's take a start now, and perseveringly
labor and see who is furthest ahead in his
profession ten years from to-day.
						ANONYMOUS.
	May 22nd, 1876.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Harriet Hosmer, will personally
superintend the placing of her own statues
in the Woman's Pavilion, Philadelphia.
	ANNIE Louise Carey will sing at Bowdo-
in and Bates Commencements, and give
concerts at Boston in July; after which she
will sail again for Europe to fulfill an en-
gagement of one year in St. Petersburg.
	MRS. Secretary Robison is said to be one
of the most highly cultivated singers in
Washington. As a young girl her voice
was one of her chief attractions, and dur-
ing her married life she has applied herself
closely to the cultivation of this accomplish-
ment.
	MISS Blanche Tucker, the Chicago prima
donna, who recently made her debut in opera
in London; and Miss Clara C. Smart, who
made her first appearance in oratorio with
Mlle. Titiens at Boston, Mass. April 12th,
were both formerly of La Crosse, Wiscon-
sin.
	MRS. Caroline B. Winslow M. D. of Wash-
ington, D. C., editor of the Alpha, a paper
in the interest of moral education and so-
cial elevation, has established a Homoepath-
ic Pharmacy, and has a large medical prac-
tice in her profession. Does [-]ot this prove
that woman is capable of performing an im-
mense amount of real physical and mental
work?
	A LADY in Albany has wrought a mag-
nificient banner, which is said to be one of
the most handsome specimens of woman's
work in the Centennial Exposition. It is
seven feet in length and five in width and
worked throughout in a variety of shades
of silk and chenille. The design selected,
was the great seal of the United States,
adopted Jan. 20, 1782; and is said to be
faithfully reproduced with the needle.


FLORAL HINTS.

	IT is a decided mistake to suppose that
plants are unhealthful in sleeping apart-
ments or sitting rooms. Of course, if the
flowers exhale a strong perfume—such as
that of tuberoses, hyacinths and daphnes—


they make the air too odorous to be desirable
at night; but healthy, growing plants absorb
the carbonic acid in the atmosphere, and
keep it pure and agreeable. They are, in
fact, the best disinfectants that can be em-
ployed.
	ONE of the chief attractions to make a
home really beautiful and refined, and to
speak to the heart, is by means of flowers;
if one cannot have expensive plants, have
those that are simple and easily tended.
Flowers are pleasant to the eye and to the
sense, and inspire the most elevating emo-
tions. There are always happy thoughts
suggested by an association with beau-
tiful flowers. How pleasant it is when sad,
burdened with grief or sorrow, to find the
peace and satisfaction one may always expe-
rience by walking in the garden or grove
where the trees, the shrubs, vines, plants,
the tender sprays and blossoms seem to
soothe and cheer and speak a silent lan-
guage direct to the heart, something thor-
oughly preceptible but yet inexpresssble in
language.


THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS.

A Rose Leaf, I will not trouble you any
	more.
Balm of Gilead, May you be healed.
Basil, I hate you.
Balsam, I am impatient.
Blue bell, Don't bother me.
Candytuft, I am indifferent.
Currant oush, You may kiss me.
Clover, I wish you much joy.
Dandelion, You are a flirt.
Daisy, I will share your sentiments.
Dahlia' Your charms I cannot resist.
Fern, I am sincere.
Geranium Leaf, I am lonely.
Grass, Useful, but not very handsome.
Grass Pink, I wish to gain your affections.
Honeysuckle, I will make you happy.
Hollyhock, you are too sanguine.
Ivy, I can only be your friend, nothing
	more.
Iris, You will please answer this.
Juniper or Cedar, I will protect you.
Lucerne, May you live long and be happy.
Lilac, You are my first and only love.
Morning Glory, Love me.
Marigold, Jealousy: Be very careful.
Mignonette, I love you more for not being
	more handsome.
Nasturtium, I love another better than you.
Oleander, Beware! I watch your conduct.
Peach Blossom, I shall never love another
	as much as you.
Plum Branch, I am independent.
Pansy, Think of me often.
Peppermint, High esteem for you.
Rosebud: White, I am too young to marry.
Rose, Damask, I love, but am too bashful to
	tell you.
Rose, White, Silence! Do not speak of our
	love.
Snapdragon, You are made up of deceit.
Shrub, You shall have justice done you.
Sage, I esteem you highly.
Sweet pea, You are very fickle.
Tansy, I declare war against you.
Violet White, I am innocent.
Violet Blue, I will be faithful till death.
Water Cress, I resign your love—You are
	free.—Ex.


It has been discovered by a French savant that
the rising of cream is quicker, and its volume
greater, the nearer the temperature is to that of
freezing water; and that the yield of butter is
greater, and the skim milk; butter and cheese are
all of better quality under like conditions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. JUNE 1, 1876.


WOMEN'S CENTENNIAL TERRI-
			TORIAL FAIR.

	This Fair is to be held in the Social Hall, a
few rods south of the Eagle Gate, and opened
on or before the first of July.
	The future welfare of Utah depends much on
the establishment and success of her home in-
dustries. This consideration is the motive pow-
er that has prompted toward this enterprise;
and it is hoped that all women of Utah, who
feel an interest in the prosperity of our Terri-
tory, will, for the promotion and encourage-
ment of self-sustaining industries, especially in
the department of womens' work, unite their
efforts to make the Fair a success. And as the
interest is a mutual one, assistance from our
brethren, should any of them please to extend
it, will be thankfully received and highly ap-
preciated.
	The Hall will be at our service on the 18th
of June, and the specimens of women's work
should be forwarded to E. R. Snow, Lion
House, as soon as practicable.

		ELIZA R. SNOW, President,
		MARY E. COOK,
					First Vice President,
		PRISCILLA M. STAINES,
				Second Vice President,
		LOUISA A. ASHBY,
							Secretary,
		CLARISSA YOUNG,
							Treasurer,
		EMMA WELLS,
		MINNIE HORNE,		Committee
		MAMIE JONES,

	Mrs. Zina D. Young, President of the Silk
Association, and the Presidents of all the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
City, with their Boards, constitute a sub-com-
mittee, to assist in relation to the Fair.


[Column 1]
		AN AGE OF GOSSIP.

	"I loathe that low vice, Curiosity,
	But if there's anything in which I shine,
	'Tis in arranging all my freinds' affairs,
	Not having, of my own, domestic cares."
										BYRON.

	These lines would apply admirably to many
people in the present day. Indeed this might,
with all propriety, be termed an age of gossip.
There seems to be an ardent desire prevalent,
to regulate the affairs of one's neighbors and
friends. Individual life is not exempt from
public notice. The newspapers partake of the
people, and the columns of personals and gos-
sip are gleaned first, and such periodicals as
contain most of this precious commodity have
the readiest sale. What some lady wore, how
it suited her style, how expensive it was, what
she did or said on a certain occasion: these and

[Column 2]
like topics form the most popular literature of
a large class of persons. Private life is [-]a[-]aded
before the public, to interest the world at large.
Tittle tattle, slander, and similar subjects, are
the stock in hand of a large majority, to be
had at wholesale; and apparently it is circulat-
ed too freely and extensively to become a dead
weight in the market.
	More especially is individual gossip, in regard
to all persons who fill public positions, in de-
mand. It is not enough to know they are ca-
pable of performing their work creditably, but
the person's private life must be held up to the
gaze of the world, and criticized and judged to
satisfy an insatiate curiosity. If there is any-
thing that Madame Grundy fails to discover,
then it is immediately construed into some-
thing mysterious or wrong. It is doubtful
whether mysteries will not soon cease to exist,
so anxious has the world become to get at the
bottom of everything. Proofs must be given
if heaven and earth and all the regions round
about are circumvented to substantiate mat-
ters.
	To enter upon a public career in this age is to
have your private life held up before the glare
of the eyes of the multitude.
	If one wants to set forth principles that will
benefit humanity, the world will immediately
demand the individual to submit to the ordeal
of public gossip. People are not satisfied with
principles of faith and action, they mu[-]t deal
with the lives and characters of persons. "It
is men, not measures."
	Why should the world care what one's do-
mestic associations are if they do not infringe
upon the rights of others? And how unjust to
require one's whole history to be made public
because they hold a position of honor, of use-
fulness or of trust. To be thus personal, is to
lose sight of reality, or goodness in principle
and action; and there is nothing gained by
the scrutiny to compensate for the loss.
	Every person, be they statesman, author, ar-
tist, no matter what profossion one follows or
what position one fills, has a right to some re-
serves; if one devotes time and talents to the
public good, is that not enough? But in this
day everything of a private nature is sought
after to satify sensational curiosity. It is ob-
noxious to persons of refined feeling. There
is something far better to occupy the time and
to discuss in common conversation, than the
goings and comings, the habits, the tastes, the
fancies, the inner life of individuals.
	If one only writes a few verses, smoothly
and clearly, that chance to have some merit
in them, immediately gossip sets about to hunt
up some individual vice or frailty to put in the
scale to outweigh the real worth.
	Scandal is, at present, popular, and if a check
is not put upon it, it is in danger of becoming
an overgrown weed, to ruin society, to weaken
and destroy confidence, to lower the character
of literature, and depreciate men and women.


[Column 1]
		HOME APPRECIATION.

	What words of encouragement and praise
are ever so sweet to the children as those which
fall from the mother's lips? Surely none be-
side. It is of the greatest importance that
mothers should understand and correctly esti-
mate the abilities with which their children
are endowed, that they may train the tender
minds in wisdom. For, as the modern world
is beginning to comprehend, a higher respon-
sibility rests upon mothers in regard to what
the world shall be in future, than upon any
other member of a family or of society.
What scene is more strikingly illustrative of
moral, intellectual and even physical beauty

[Column 2]
and worth, than that presented by the domes-
tic circle in which a mother holds her proper
place? The source of tenderness, the centre
of affection, the bond of social union, the um-
pire in all contention, the forwarder and reg-
ulator of each salutary plan, the general foun-
tain of cheerfulness, hope and consolation! To
such a mother it is given to clear up unjust
suspicion; to ward off the unmerited blow; to
defend the wounded spirit from the injury to
which it would sullenly submit; to encourage
the hopeless, when thrown back in competition
of talent; to point out to those who have been
defeated other pursuits in which they may yet
succeed; to stand between the timid and the
danger they dread; to think and act for and in
behalf of each and all, promising, hoping, be-
lieving that faults ignorantly or thoughtlessly
committed, will never be willingly perpetrat-
ed again, thus making peace with offended au-
thority. There can be no danger that the value
of such a mother may be over estimated.
	To the young wife and mother, how price-
less are those tokens of love and confidence,
too often charily given, which indicate that
her careful efforts to create and sustain home
happiness are noticed and appreciated! From
observation as well as by tradition we are led
to consider that young husbands are extremely
liable to forget, shortly after the waning of
the honey-moon, all about those pretty little
compliments with which they are ever so lav-
ish as lovers. It should not be so, and where
men are not blind to their own interests, they
invariably contrive to keep their memories re-
freshed on these subjects. When such a one,
who stands not in his own light, comes home
at evening, weary with the labors of the day,
he does not fail to bestow the pleased look and
merited words of encouragement wherever
there is an opportunity, even though he may
not find everything about the house in the ex-
act order that a more experienced housewife
might be able to maintain. After the evening
party, concert or mutual improvement meet-
ing where the young wife has contributed to
the entertainment, her song, reading or recita-
tion does not pass unnoticed by the husband.
If she has acquitted herself admirably, he
does not leave all the delicate encomiums for
others to whisper, but is as eager to let her
know that he appreciates her talents and ac-
complishments now, as he was in the days of
their engagement. As one congratulatory sen-
tence from his lips are worth more to her than
all that could be spoken by others, so should he
delight the more in speaking it. That sen-
tence is worth double to her now, what it was
in former times, when he, like all friends and
admirers, sought her favor rather than her
positive interest, and was liable to flatter when
the simple truth would have sufficed. And so
in proportion, should he be doubly sincere and
doubly tender in his expressions. If in jus-
tice he must sometimes offer criticisms which
are not so pleasant, he will do so in as manly
and courteous words as he would have used in
those other days when to have offended her
womanly pride or wounded her sensitive feel-
ings, would have caused him most painful re-
grets. Some one has written that "a happy
wife NEED not long to be cou[-]ted again." the
true woman who has been fairly won, and who
is well treated as a wife, WILL not wish to be
courted again.
	The kind good husband and father, certainly
holds the most honorable position that it is
possible for mortal man to occupy. His will
is the law of his household, a law which needs
no enforcement but is joyously complied with
by each one, as it ever tends to the happiness
of all. His superiority is proudly and lovingly


acknowledged by those who constitute his lit-
tle realm. His comfort and pleasure are natu-
rally first thought of and provided for, by all
save himself; and his affectionate thanks and 
reciprocal cheerfulness and attention to the
wants of the others, are ample rewards for all
the thought and care and labor expended for
him.
	Some very practical person, will be sure to
intimate that in writing the above, we have
been wasting time by drawing Utopian sketch-
es. We make ready for such remarks by an-
swering afore hand that such pictures need not
be simply ideal if men and women will only
take pains to make them real. Courting is
only more charming than married life, because
lovers curb their tempers, guard their tongues,
control their passions and seek by all the gen-
tle and loving powers of their better natures to
make themselves agreeable, their companion-
ship desirable; while husbands and wives cease
to do these things. Why forsake that better
life when it has once been entered upon? It is
but to continue love's most beautiful and sa-
cred duties for a lifetime instead of only for a few
short weeks or months.
					[-]. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	5


THE NEW VOLUME.

	This number ushers in the fifth volume of
the "WOMAN'S EXPONENT." On this occas-
ion (one of infinite interest to us) we would
tender our sincere thanks to all, who by their
patronage, influence, or correspondence help
to sustain the Woman's paper. The WOMEN
of Utah at the present time occupy an import-
ant position and should therefore be diligent
in availing themselves of every avenue open
to them for improvement in home-literature as
well as in every other department of home-
culture. Hoping that we may receive from
our numero[-]s friends and patrons the encour-
rgement in the future that has been accorded
us in the past, we dedicate the present volume
together with all the ability and power we
may be able to bring into requisition, to the
best interests of Zion at home and abroad.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. E. Davis, Salt Lake City, is agent for
the book entitled "Correspondence of Pales-
tine Tourists," for Cache, Morgan, Summit and
Salt Lake Counties.

	TO THE LADIES OF 17TH WARD RELIEF
	SOCIETY:

MRS. PACK, Dear Siste[-]:
	With heartfelt thankfulness and feelings of
gratitude for the kindness shown to our dear
mother, we beg to return our sincere thanks
to all the ladies of the Relief Society; their
kindness will never be forgotten by us as a 
family. My brother and sister join with me in
thanks.
	Believe me your sister in the Gospel of
Peace.
						C. A. WILLIAMS


EDUCATION.

	Who can portray the many advantages to be
derived from the cultivation of the intellectual
faculties? Education, when associated with
moral principles and actions will enlarge the
mind, and promote our happiness, by preparing
us for more exalted pursuits and pleasures. It
will enable us to express our ideas with clear-
ness and intelligence, and to form proper con-
ceptions of the attributes of our Maker.


It will cheer the hours of solitude and sor-
row, and enliven the period of rest and recrea-
tion. When the body is exhuasted with con-
tinued exertion, the mind may be invigorated
and inspired with the most pleasing emotions
by reading the writings of learned authors.
Knowledge, when once acquired will remain
with us and be a source of pleasure in every
condition in life, from youth to the latest peri-
od of our existence; but it cannot be obtained
without serious attention and application.
	Then let us improve our time, and store our
minds with wisdom striving to become thor-
oughly educated in every respect. The desire
to accumulate riches, seems to be the ruling
passion with the majority of the world, and to
obtain it, many will trample under foot every
social and moral obligation. But let us make
MERIT our standard of excellence, without any
regard as to whether the possessor is surround-
ed by wealth and affluence, or living in poverty
and obscurity.
								S. TIBBS.
	Mona, Juab Co.


[Column 1]
		LETTERS.

	ALPINE CITY, UTAH Co., May 8[-]h.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	Having been for some time a careful reader
of our Woman's paper, I feel it my duty to ac-
knowledge my satisfaction with the same,
knowing that it contains much good informa-
tion and instruction for both old and young, if
only brought into practice, according to the
privileges granted us by our Heavenly Father.
One thing I regret and that is that I did not
subscribe for it in the commencement. I take
great pleasure in reading the correspondence
from different settlements, as it conveys to me
that spirit and feeling of oneness, that is so
highly to be prized in connection with the
great and glorious Latter day work. It is a
great satisfaction to know that we are co-work-
ers with each other in the cause of building up
the kingdom of God, and striving to work out
our own salvation, which ought to be the great
object of our lives, having taken upon our-
selves the name of Latter-day Saints. Per-
haps a few words about our little secluded set-
tlement would not be amiss; it is small, but
nevertheless the most of the people are alive to
their duties, and I feel safe in saying that we
do not lack good teachings and examples from
those that are placed over us.
	We have a Relief Society under the judic-
ious care and management of Mrs. Margaret Mc-
Cullough, and through her untiring efforts and
also the efforts of the sisters, it is steadily pro-
gressing and has proved a great blessing in
many respects; as our numbers are but small,
there are but few who need assistance in a tem-
poral point of view. We have also a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association which is
well attended and appreciated by the young
ladies. It was organized one year ago last
April by the President and Counselors of the Re-
lief Society; since then they have made the best
use of every available opportunity for improv-
ing their minds. We have also a Young Men's 
Association, who have been favored with a vis-
it from Bros. Hardy and Young, whose excel-
lent teachings have already proved a great ben-
efit. They have sown good seed on good ground
which will germinate and in due time bring
forth good fruit; for we have good young men
among us, as well as young ladies, in our little
isolated home, who if proper[-]y guided will be
able to do much good in bearing off this ki[-]g-
dom.
	In conclusion I beg to express my hope that
your paper may meet with the patronage it
deserves.						M. A.

[Column 2]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At the annual meeting, held on the 25th of 
April, at the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Salt Lake City, the Seventh Annual
Report of the Relief Society of that ward was
read.
	The names of the present officers are as fol-
lows, viz.

	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, President,
	"	Bathsheba W. Smith,	} Counselors.
	"	Lydia Ann Wells,		}
	"	Elizabeth H. Goddard Secretary,
	"	Emmeline B. Wells, Assist. Sec'y.
	"Mrs. Relief Atwood, Treasurer.

	The balance of last Reports and Receipts by
Teachers during the past year amounting in
cash to................................ $ [-]9 17
In sundries amounting to .			182 80
Disbursed to sick and
	needy...........................		81 07	120 25
Leaving a balance in
	Treasury of................. .	8 10	62 55
Donated by Sisters to St.
	George Temple.............	3[-] 50
Temple  Clothes etc. to
	Lamanites.......................	37 75
Credit to the Sisters for 
	work ........ ..................		18 65
Cash invested with inter-
	est, amounting to........	473 06.

	Articles made by the Society during the year
too numerous to mention in detail, consisting
of bedding, suits of clothes for burial and oth-
er purposes, ladies dresses and under-clothing,
aprons, caps, stockings etc; also men's shirts,
under-clothing, socks, etc.
	President Mrs. R. Grant expressed a wish
that we use our surplus means in assisting to
build the Temple, realizing the necessity of
employing our time and ability as much as
possible in that direction.
	Bishop Woolley made some excellent re-
marks, expressed his satisfaction with the ex-
ertions of the Sisters; felt that the burden rest-
ed upon the few.  Gave some good advice to the
sisters and hoped we would be one with the
brethren in forwarding the work on the Tem-
ple.
	There were some of our good sisters present
by invitation whom we would have been
pleased to have heard from, but meeting was
adjourned early on account of the funeral of
Bro. Charles A. Long; where most wished to 
attend.
				E. H. GODDARD, Sec'y.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	IT is a remarkable fact that every day in
the week is observed by some nation for the
public celebration of religious services.
Sunday is devoted by the Christians, Mon-
day by the Greeks, Tuesday by the Persians,
Wednesday by the Assyrians, Thursday by
the Egyptians, Friday by the Turks, Satur-
day by the Jews.
	THE London Pall Mall Gazette, speaking
of the American girl in England, says:—
Like the wind, she goeth where she listeth;
but every man knoweth whence she com-
eth. She arouses the hostility of English
matrons the moment she sets foot on British
soil. Few of them are aware that she has
been purposely trained to self-reliance and
self-assertion, like her brother, from infan-
cy. Such a training shows itself in her
manner, which grates as harshly on British
feelings as her voice too often does on Brit-
ish ears.


6	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"THE NEW CENTURY,"
			FOR WOMAN.

			—1776—1876—
	INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION

			WOMEN'S DEPARTMENT.

	The Women's Executive Committee pro-
pose to publish, on the opening of the Ex-
position, a WEEKLY PAPER, to be devoted
to the Industrial interests of women. All
departments of women's work, as represent-
ed in the Exposition, or as noted in corres-
pondence from abroad and at home, will
come under consideration. All means for
advancing the prosperity and extending the
opportunities of women-workers are open
for suggestion and discussion in our columns.
	Attention will be especially given to the
new departments in trades and handicrafts,
in artistic work, in education, in the scien-
tific and learned professions upon which
women are entering; and correspondence
is requested from women in such vocations.
The results of experience, in new and pre-
viously unworked fields, and the statement
of pecuniary profits derived therefrom, will
be of positive value to other workers, and
are respectfully solicited.
	Advertisements and cards are requested
from women in business. Those who have
patented articles for sale, are requested to
send descriptions of them to this office.
	Advertisements of general interest will
also be received. As this paper is published
in the Woman's Department, within the
Exposition Grounds, and will have a wide
circulation among American and other vis-
itors, its advantages as an advertising me-
dium are evident.
	Correspondence, communications, and
subscriptions by mail, will be received at
the office of "THE NEW CENTURY," WO-
MAN'S DEPARTMENT, CENTENNIAL GROUNDS
PHILADELPHIA. City subscriptions, and
all matter for advertising department, must
be sent to Chairman of Publishing Com-
mittee, Woman's Centennial Department,
903 Walnut St.
	Subscription price, $2.00, in advance, for
six months. 
					E. D. GILLESPIE,
					Chairman Ex. Com.


[Column 1]
	EDUCATION OF GIRLS IN EGYPT.

	After visiting the boys' schools I went on
to the girls' schools, which are now an in-
stitution of exceptional importance in
Egypt. Women have hitherto, under the
Moslem rule, led a veiled, secluded, useless,
ignorant life in the harem. Here and there
European governesses have been intro-
duced, but the cases are so exceedingly rare
that it may be broadly stated that up to two
years ago women were not educated in
Egypt, and, consequently, national educa-
tion wholly wanted the true foundation of
all teaching—the mother's lessons to her
children. But two years ago one of the
Khedive's wives, a woman in advance of
her country, determined to found and en-
dow a school for her sex in Cairo. An an-
cient palace was utilized, a staff of teachers
organized, dormitories arranged, class-rooms
and play-ground provided, and the Cairo
public invited to send their daughters to be
taught, fed, lodged and clothed free of
charge. At first the invitation met with no
response. Even eighteen days before the
day named for the opening of the school
there was not a single name entered. The
authorities were in despair. The project
seemed hopelessly in advance of public

[Column 2]
opinion. It was seriously proposed to draft
in a number of fonndling children from the
hospital, so that the school should not be
wholly without scholars. But on the eigh-
teenth day came an Arab mother with her
daughter. Three days later a batch of sev-
enteen arrived, "et apres cela," said my in-
formant, "elles sont arrivees comme une
avalanche," The school would only contain
300, and on the opening day 400 had to be
rejected. Since then the applications have
never ceased, and there are now over 900
waiting acceptance. A second school has
been opened, a third is in process of erec-
tion, and numerously-signed petitions for
similar institutions have come from the
large towns in the interior; in fact, popular
prejudice is completely routed.
	The instruction given is such as is calcu-
lated to enable a woman to become the capa-
ble mistress of her household. Twenty-four
hours a week are given to intellectual train-
ing, the rest are devoted to instruction in
needlework, cooking, washing, and the pro-
per management of a house. The training
is for five years. Every year there is a
grand lottery for the sale of all the needle-
work, and the proceeds are put by to make
the nest-egg for the dowry.
	A pleasant, smiling young Frenchwoman,
the directress, received us. The schools
are in a fine old Arab house, built in two
stories, round a quadrangle, with large and
lofty rooms, and a fountain and garden to
look upon. We first saw the girls at needle-
work, from plain needlework up through
the various stages of crochet, double stitch,
and other mysteries, to exquisite lacework
and Turkish embroidery. There were about
a hundred sitting together. They were all
dressed in a plain, brown cotton, loose gown,
fastened by a leather band round the waist.
Their faces were unveiled, and they wore
their hair in plaits or falling loose down the
back, but always fastened by a blue silk
ribbon. All had ornaments—necklaces
or bracelets or earrings or rings, but no ob-
trusive adornment caught my eye. Their
boots were Europea[-], and they were all sit-
ting on benches in European fashion—the
Turkish cross-legged style being forbidden.
	There were various races—Circassian, Nu-
bian, Egyptian, Levantine, and even French
—of very different classes, from Pasha's
daughters to girls of no rank whatever—all
religions, Mohommedan, Copt, Jew, and
Christian. There were negro slaves—thir-
ty-eight all together—rescued from bond-
age, and being now trained with a view es-
pecially to entering domestic service. From
the sewing class we went to the reading,
writing and language classes (Arabic, Turk-
ish and French). In all, the quickness of
apprehension and the rapidity of progress
was remarkable, by the report of the teach-
ers, and as far as I could test this statement
I found it true. "My girls learn even more
quickly than Arab boys," said the direct-
ress. I heard the fable of the wolf, the fox
and lamb dictated in Arabic, and it was
written for the most part without error by
the girls in Turkish. I examined one brown-
faced, woolly headed little girl of eleven in
geography. She only knew Africa. But
she gave me the names of the departments
of Egypt, and pointed out on the map Cairo,
Alexandria, Port Said, Suez, Assouan, Dar-
fur, Abyssinia, Madagascar, Zanzibar, Mo-
rocco, Senegambia, and Tunis. I then
asked her how she would go to Tunis. "By
the desert, on a camel." "Is there no other
way?" "Yes, by the sea." "How would
you get to the sea?" "By the railway"
(which the Arabs call "baboor" a corruption
of the Italian "vapore"). "Is there no
other way than the railway?" "Yes; by

[Column 3]
the river, or a camel." "Why would you
prefer the baboor?" "Because it is quick-
est." All this was said without hesitation
and with a broad grin. We saw washing,
ironing and cooking in other parts of the
buildings; there is a capital bath, and the
bed-rooms, fitted with neat little iron bed-
steads, looked clean, airy and comfortable.
We wound up our inspection with the
Egyptian national anthem, performed by a
small pupil on the piano, who had only
learned music three months.
	Education is in its infancy in Egypt. But
what I have described is the germ of a good
system, which year by year is gradually
supplanting the old schools. Two things
are essential—normal schools and plenty of
funds.—London Times.


SPLINTERS.

				GENERAL.
	The first Presbyterian Church in Arizona
Ter. has just been organized at Tuscon......
The inhabitants of Greeley, Colorado, have
built a $30,000 school-house, by contribu-
tions of $10 apiece......The "New York
World" has been sold by Morton Marble, to
William Henry Hurlbut......Thirty thou-
sand troops including three cavalry regi-
ments, are under orders to sail for Cuba on
the first of September......Thomas Jeffer-
son's favorite grand daughter died recently
in Boston—Coral is coming into fashion
again......A very destructive hailstorm took
place in Morristown, N. J., May 22d......
Lord Derby, Secretary of State for foreign
affairs, has sent an answer to Secretary
Fish's letter in regard to the Winslow Case

				PERSONAL.

	Lord Lytton's last poem is entitled
"King Poppy"......Miss Emma Abbot has
just made her debut in London in opera,
which was highly favorable, the applause
was very great......Tom Moore's original
manuscript of Lalla Rookh, with several of
his autograph letters are to be offered for sale
in London soon......Madame Gullandt, a
French lady residing at Rome, has present-
ed a portrait of Washington, wrought in
mosaic, to the city of Philadelphia.....Gen.
Spinner has been investing in real estate in
Florida.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dr. Ferrier has written of late some very im-
portant things in regard to sleeplessness, which it
would be well to reflect and act upon. In sleep,
(says this author) a large proportion of blood flows
from the heart to the brain, and the increase or
diminution of the amount is in proportion to the
amount of excitement or quiet. Any exertion of
the brain, such as deep thought increases the flow
of blood to the brain, and while that continues
this organ is excited and the body suffers from
want of sleep or rest. Anything which tends to
promote circulation of blood in the brain such as
worry or anxiety tends to sleeplessness, any cause
that tends to diminish this flow of blood induces
sleep. The best things to promote sleep are
warmth, darkness and monotony of soumd, be-
cause in these there is no excitement. This phys-
ician, like many others, thinks eight hours sleep
positively necessary every night for an adult, to
restore the organization after the wear and tear to
which it is daily subjected. He also says the
more a person exercises their brain, the greater
the necessity to recuperate, for every act of
thought entails a certain loss or consumption of
brain subst[---].


VICTOR HUGO calls the Nineteenth Cen-
tury "the Century of women."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	7


[Column 1]
	NANCIE AMELIA WOODBURY
				PRIEST.

	Author of "Over the River," "Shall we knew
			each other there?"

	How many hearts have been touched by
the pathos and beauty of the familiar poem,
"Over the river they beckon to me!" Al-
though these lines are known and cherished
as household words; in thousands of homes,
where the English language is spoken, and,
though they have awakened a chord of
sympathy in so many sorrowing hearts, yet
hardly any body knows anything of the
author, who, like many others of the world's
choicest spirits, lived and died in poverty
and obscurity, not even understood and ap-
preciated by those who knew her best.
	It was my good fortune last summer,
while lingering among the beautiful hills of
New England, to pass a few hours in the
lovely and picturesque village of Hinsdale,
N. H., where these lines were written. I
visited the cottage where she lived, a 
small, but neat, white cottage, overlooking
the beautiful Ashuelot river, that foams and
frets as it rushes, in headlong haste, over
the rough rocks and stones that impede its
progress; and, as I looked at the dark grove
of pines beyond, that seemed to stand in
calm unruffled peace, ever pointing up-
wards, I thought how naturally, while look-
ing at these, as she must have done, so of-
ten, she would think of the peace beyond
the river, and I could better understand the
image in her mind when she wrote:

	"Over the river, they becken to me,
	Loved ones who've crossed to the further side,
	The gleam of their snowy, robes I see,
	But their voices are lost in the dashing tide."

	This cottage is now occupied by an aunt
of Nancie's, by marriage, but she could tell
me little about her, except to point out to
me the factory, a little way up the river,
where she used to work, and thither I di-
rected my steps.
	It was a paper mill, and her work was us-
ually folding paper. From the windows of
the mill the same view presented itself as
from the cottage, and there, as one who
worked with her, told me, she sat down one
day upon a pile of rags and wrote this poem.
	It seems she wrote a great deal, but
many of her poems were never offered for
publication and others, had only a limited
circulation. I am sure many will be glad
to read the following, "Shall we know each
other there?" which, it seems to me, gives
us so good a picture of the inner unknown
life and heart of the author.

		When we meet in fie[-]ds Elysian,
			Freed from this world's pain and care,
		Shall we, with our spirit-vision,
			See and know each other there?
		Can it be that death will sever
			All life's dearest, holiest ties?
		Do we look farewell forever,
			When we close these mortal eyes?
		Shall we, in their angel plumage,
			Know the loved of many years,
		Lips that smiled, when we were happy,
			Eyes that wept for all our tears?
		Ah! how drear would be e'en Heaven,
			Did not hope, with glances bright,
		Whisper that the hearts now riven,
			In that world shall reunite.
		We know the lambs are tended.
			When they come from pastures chill,
		Bleating to the fold for shelter
			From the bare and frosty hill,	
		By the ribbon, red or azure,
			That we tied long months before;
		And we left the gate with pleasure.
			To receive them home once more.
		So shall they who've gone before us,
			Ope' for us the gate of life,
		Kiss away our fears and trembling,
			Put on us the robe of white,
		Lead us through the pastures vernal,
			By the feet of angels trod,

[Column 2]
		To the stream of life eternal,
			Flowing from the throne of God.

	To show how little she was understood or
appreciated by those around her, I will detail
part of a conversation I had with one who
worked with her at the paper mill.
	I am told you knew Miss Priest, author
of "Over the River," &c.
	"Yes, I knew Nancy Priest well, I work-
ed with her in the mill a long time."
	"Do you know whether she was born at
Hinsdale?"
	"She was born in Massachusetts, but her
father and mother moved to Hinsdale,
when she was a young girl."
	Do you know her age?
	"No, I think she must have been over
thirty, when she died, that was three or 
four years ago."
	Have you any picture of her?
	"Yes, I have one, but she was very
homely."
	At my request she brought it, and I saw,
in a poorly executed photograph, a face
that showed deep intense feeling and sen-
sitive nature with longings for a higher
spiritual and intellectual life. Her hair
seemed to be a mass of luxuriant soft brown
curls, her eyes dark and expressive, the
mouth rather large, and though only show-
ing to the eye of the physiognomist a warm
heart and strong attachments, I concludde
it was this feature of the lower part of her 
face that had condemned her in the eyes of
her friend. The face was in no wise dis-
pleasing to me, and, while looking at it with
interest, her quondam friend remarked,
"She was a very odd girl; not a great favor-
ite." 
	How so? I asked.
	"Well, in the first place she was what I 
should call lazy. Her father and mother
were poor; but, instead of working hard to
try to earn something to help them I don't
believe she earned much more than enough
to pay her board. When she worked
in the mill with me, I have often seen her
stop work for an hour or more at a time,
and sit down some where and read or
write."
	Do they allow operatives to stop when
they choose?
	"Why, yes, she wasn't working by the
day, or week, but was paid for the amount
of work she did."
	Was she not paid for her writings?
	"No, I don't think she ever had a cent for
any of them." 
	Yet some of them were published in
many papers?
	"Yes, they were copied and recopied
everywhere, the few that she published."
	Why was she not a favorite?
	"Oh, she had a very singular disposition.
She never seemed to care much about the
other girls. She was one who had a few
friends, that she was strongly attached to,
and she did not seem to care much for any-
body else; and then she was apt to be quick
and take offence if the girls laughed at
her.
	Sensitive, I suppose.
	"Yes, very, I always got along well with
her though," and here the speaker kindly
showed me some lines of poetry addressed
to herself by Miss Priest, full of affection.
She also showed me an unpublished poem
of a humorous character, descriptive of her
adventures by railway upon a certain oc-
casion. These were signed, "Nancie."
	"She had a great deal of fun about her,"
remarked her friend, "but she would not
like me to show you these, for she did not
think anything of them herself. She had
almost enough written to make a book, and
then one day she took a sudden fit, and

[Column 3]
burned them all up. "Nancie's mother used
to write to, but I don't think she ever had
anything printed."
	One day a letter was received from a lady
who said, that, after the death of a beloved
daughter, she had acidentily read the poem,
"Over the River," and was touched by it,
that she had made enquiries, and, at last
succeeded in finding the name and address
of the author. She said she had learned
that she had long been desirous of obtain-
ing a better education, and she now invited
her cordially to come and take the place of
her daughter, offering her, her love and
every advantage that money could buy.
	Nancie read the letter with a full heart.
At first it seemed to her that the desires of
her heart were to be granted, and that her
mind might feast to its content upon the
treasures of knowledge for which it had
longed. But, as she turned suddenly, she
saw her own face reflected in a small mirror
opposite. A sudden shadow fell over the
bright animated face, and she exclaimed,
"Oh, when they saw me, they would be dis-
appointed. They could not love me. I should
never take their daughter's place. No, I 
will stay." And so, with a sad heart she
took up the burden of her life again, think-
ing only, "It might have been."
	A few more years of her weary factory
life, and then her parents removed to Mass-
achusetts, where she soon married, and, in
the course of a few years, became the moth-
er of two fine boys; but during her confine-
ment at the birth of a third child, her hus-
band failing to procure suitable help her
two little boys were taken very ill. Her
true mother's heart could not endure their
suffering. Her own pain and weakness
were forgotten, and, rising from her bed,
she ministered to their wants, with that
tenderness and love that only a mother can
give. They recovered, but at the expense
of the life of their mother and her infant.
These sons, I am told, are still living, and
are promising boys. Their father has mar-
ried again.
	Thus ended the earthly life of one, who
knew few friends, few joys, who had but
little of the love and light, for which she
longed, whose life was almost a perpetual
struggle and weariness. Coarse associates
laughed at what they called her homely
face, crushed and wounded her sensitive
spirit with taunts and jeers, and, when she
sought a little time to feed her starving
soul with intellectual food, she was scout-
ed as lazy. Thus was she despised and ha-
ted for the very traits, that, under more
favorable circumstances, would have pro-
cured for her love and praise. There is some-
thing extremely touching in the glimpses we
are able to obtain of the life of this gifted but
poor and lonely girl. No wonder her heart
and hopes looked forward so eargely and
constantly to that brighter world, of which
she thought and wrote so much.
	It sometimes seems mysterious to us,
that minds and hearts, fitted, either by na-
tive genius, or superior cultivation, to do
great good in the world around them, should
live and die in obscurity, fettered by cir-
cumstances, and thus prevented from using
those gifts; but our minds are too little to
understand God's plan. We only know
that He is perfect love, and "What we
know not now we shall know hereafter."
After all, this life is but the beginning.
Nothing in the Divine economy is ever
lost. He sows the good seed here and bu-
ries it deep in darkness, but to bring it
forth again in due time, enriched and wa-
tered with tears and trials, to expand and
ripen to a glorious perfection in the sum-
mer land of our hopes. Ex.


8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE AWKWARD AGE.

	A wise and sweet woman suggests, as a sover-
eign remedy for the uncomfortableness of what
we are wont to call the awkward age in boys and
girls—that time when they are too large to feel
like children, and not quite sure enough of them-
selves to feel like adults—that we should always
treat the smallest children with the courtesy and
consideration of grown-up people, and then they
will never feel at a loss as to their reception, thus
quite escaping the uncomfortable "awkward age."
There are few things more important in the right
development of a human creature than self-respect.
But how is a child to learn to respect itself if it
sees that it is alone in the sentiment—that by no
one else is it respected? More harm is perhaps
done children by snubbing than by weak indul-
gence. We have all seen homes where the slight-
est expression of a child's idea on any point un-
der discussion was greeted with—"Who asked
you what you thought?" or with some sarcasm,
such as—"Ah, now we shall have the matter set-
tled—Miss Experience is freeing her mind." It
is so difficult to hit the right meaning. We do
not want our children to be troublesome to visitors
—grown-up people do uot want to pause in their
talk to listen to the unconsidered opinions of a
child of thirteen—but what if we tried the ex-
periment of respectful attention for awhile?
Would not the young folks cease talking until they
had something to say, quite as surely if they saw
they were listened to with attention, as if they
felt that their voices were but beating the air?


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A GERMAN paper called the "Fortschritt,"
is pubiished weekly in New York city. It
is edited by a very clever and energetic
German lady, Anna Metz Bylond.
	IF you don't want your wife to bother
you every day with the remark, "Don't for-
get that worsted," just mention to her the
pretty girl who tends the worsted counter
where you got the last.
	"YOU didn't laugh at my stupidity before
we were married; you always said I was a
"duck of a lover," grumbled a complaining
husband. "Yes, that's so," replied the
wife, "and a duck of a lover is almost sure
to make a goose of a husband."
	MRS. Attorney-General Pierrepont wears
pale lemon-colored silk under 'illusion' dot-
ted with small snow-flakes of gold," says a
fashion writer. Society at the capital seems
to have been all illusion of late years, and
flakes of gold dazzling dishonestly have
carried sorrow and shame over the whole
country.
	A CLERGYMAN who was recently discours-
ing upon the alarming increase of intem-
perance astonished his audience by exclaim-
ing: "A young man in my neighborhood
died very suddenly last Sunday while I
was preaching the Gospel in a beastly state
of intoxication." Moral—clergyman should
study grammer.


FLOWERS.

	LIFE, according to an Arabic proverb, is
composed of two parts—that which is past,
a dream; and that which is to come, a wish.
	THAT man is a coward who shapes his
course of action by his fears; and he alone 
is a man of real courage who dares to do
right.
	HAVE the courage to cut the most agree-
able acquaintance you have when you are
convinced he lacks principle; a friend should
bear with a friend's infirmities but not with
his vices.


INDIFFERENCE AT HOME:—Ingratitude
and indifference sometimes mar the char-
acter of men. A husband returns from his
business at evening. During his absence,
and throughout the live long day, the wife
has been busy with mind and hands prepar-
ing some little surprise, some unexpected
pleasure to make his home more attractive
than ever. He enters, seemingly sees no
more of what has been done to please him
than if he were a blind man, and has noth-
ing more to say than if he were dumb.
Many a loving wife has borne in her heart
an abiding sorrow, day after day, from caus-
es like this, until, in process of time, the
fire and enthusiasm of her original nature
have burned out, and mutual indifference
spreads its pall over the household.


[Column 1]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the T[---]et and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Hou[-]ekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best [--]owing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director.
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City. 

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School [-]rizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to		C.R. SAVAGE,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		Now Receiving, at
	TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST, TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
					Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the Old Fashioned House 

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
		doors below Walker House, and examine our
			goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
				take pleasure in making to order, such
					brushes as we have not on hand.
  						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
	MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
			    AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	     Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		 Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE
			STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

	TO THE LADIES!
			TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of   
	all kinds, NEW STYLES PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
		GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and a full stock
		 of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we 
				are selling very cheap. 

				THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
			O[-]
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
              AND
	BABY CARRIAGES! 
75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
