VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1877.	NO. 20.


A DREAM.

Tis strange to night, that while the wintry blast,
Bends the bare boughs, till frost-bound forests moan
In very pain; while shadows huge and grim,
Are thrown grotesque from trunk and trembling limb.
That I alone the graveyard gates have passed;
And stand within, without a thought of fear,
Though solemn sounds, and night, and death are near.

I heed not that the moonlight fitful falls
Through hurrying clouds that cross the tranquil rays;
This dismal blast might be a summer breeze,
And summer laurels crown the leafless trees,
Not more than they, this weird, wild night appal;
I wrap my arms around one cold gray stone;
And like the dead, am quiet and alone.

What if I were like these, whose breathless sleep,
Is never broken as the years go by?
What if my spirit, tired of toil and pain,
Should flit away, and not return again
What have I done that any eye should weep?
To find me lying cold and quiet here,
With helpless hands upon this self-sought bier.

Would any, lifting up these helpless hands
Bless them for deeds of love and mercy done?
Would any kiss the silent lips and say,
That for the friendless they were wont to pray,
That they from ill some erring soul had won?
Would I be missed from out life's erring band
If I had entered in the shadow land?

Or have these hands forgot to cast around,
God's blessings, that we gather by the way;
Forgot to lift the burden from the weak?
And have these scornful lips been slow to speak
Words that would heal some keen and cruel wound?
Have I been wasting gracious, golden hours,
And planting thorns, instead of fruits and flowers.

This dismal wind would tell my doubting soul
That my life's measure has been void and vain;
But when I mark that quiet, steadfast ray,
That still through storm pursues its silent way,
Fresh courage comes, and I would ask again,
That I may live to clothe in warmth and light,
The purpose, born of doubt and pain to-night.

	MILLICENT.
Emile Wells


[Column 1]

"BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL
KNOW THEM."

	Having heard an article read which was
published in the Woman's Journal against
"Plural Marriage," and misrepresenting
things generally, I wish, through the col-
umns of the EXPONENT, to give my sisters
a word of caution, that they may not be de-
ceived by those that appear in sheep's cloth-
ing, (speaking scripturally,) but their object
is to ingratiate themselves into favor among
the families of the saints, for the purpose
of leading away the young, and those
that cannot discern the spirit they are of.
	The article referred to, was written by
a lady brought up among the Latter-day
Saints; and after she was more than thirty
years old, became of her own free will and
choice, the fourth wife of a man in "Plural
Marriage." She rejoiced in having found
her affinity, and remarked to her intimate
friends of the congeniality that existed be-
tween herself and husband. She was cer-
tainly old enough to choose for herself, and
was happy as a plural wife, as long as she
was "the petted lamb of the flock," (as she
styles herself,) but when her husband re-
membered he had other wives that requir-
ed his attention, she came to the conclu-
sion that Polygamy was not true, and took
up her pen to write against the principle;
still claiming a man for her husband who
had three wives, (and each of them child-

[Column 2]

ren) previous to her marriage, thereby ac-
knowledging herself a plural wife; how
inconsistent!
	She also makes the assertion that the
"Woman's Exponent" does not represent
the true sentiments of the "Women of
Utah," but is edited by Brigham Young
and Eliza R. Snow, a woman on the shady
side of seventy. Is not this an insult to
the Editors as well as to the women of Zion,
when we all know that it is edited and sup-
ported by women that are true Latter-day
saints both young and old.
	With regard to President Young as edit-
or, his high and exalted position as the
leader of so great a people, gives him plen-
ty to occupy his mind, time and attention
without editing papers. It is the same with
our beloved Sister Snow, who is held in the
highest esteem by both the men and wo-
men of this community. Although she is
seventy-three years of age, her hair is not
yet gray, and she can perform more labor,
mental and physical, than the lady who makes
her age an objection could do at forty. I am
writing matters of fact—truths as they ex-
ist, without the least prejudice or misrep-
resentation.
	I myself, heard the lady say "I cannot
give up the religion of my mother, taught
me from childhood;" yet she denies one
very important principle of that religion.
	If we believe baptism for the remission
of sins, the laying on of hands for the re-
ception of the Holy Ghost, and the ordi-
nances of the house of God, also the bap-
tism for the dead, the resurrection and 
eternal judgement, we must believe in Ce-
lestial Marriage for time and eternity. The
Lord revealed the principle of the ever-
lasting Gospel through the prophet Joseph
Smith for the salvation and exaltation of
the human family, if they will accept it
and live obedient to its requirements.
	We as Latter-day Saints cannot like the
Christain world, accept one portion of the
revealed word of God and reject the others;
neither can we serve God and Mammon,
but like Joshua of old we must choose whom
we will serve. Now is the time my sisters
to choose whether we will serve the Lord
and keep His commandments, or if we will
serve Baal and go after the follies of the
world. Many spirits are in our midst, let
us try the spirits by the law and the testi-
mony, if they speak not according to this
there is no truth in them. "By their fruits
ye shall know them," was the teaching of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in His
day, so also can we know them in our day.
We can judge the spirits of people by
their conversation. Let us my sisters,
serve God and keep His commandments,
never associating with those who speak
against the Lord's anointed, or the princi-
ples of the Gospel, neither bid them wel-
come to our houses; if we do the spirit of
God will become grieved and our minds
will be darkened.
	This Anti-Polygamist is very anxious to
talk to our young people, and makes the
assertion if she could call a vote from the
young people, nine-tenths of them would
give their vote against Polygamy. I am
thankful to say in this she would be woful-
ly mistaken. I have no doubt she could

[Column 3]

find a number like herself, that have apos-
tatized from the truth, that would give her
their vote, but they would be but a small
minority.
	I fear I have made my article too long,
but I am so much interested in the welfare
of our young people, I would warn them
against the cunning craftiness of those that
are trying to deceive them and lead them
from the truth.
	AUNT MARY
S. L. City, March 5, 1877.


NOTES AND NEWS

	THE ASPECT of Vesuvius is now said to
be threatening and according to the most
reliable accounts there is a tendency to an
explosion, such as occur periodically. It is
authentically stated that up to the seven-
teenth century the number of eruptions
was less than four to each hundred years.
In the eighteenth century there were twen-
ty-three, and in this nineteenth century
twenty-six have already occurred. The
mountain is decidedly restless, there is a
subdued roar from the depths, which tell
of a surging sea of lava. 
	THE BOSTON "Woman's Journal" says
Sir George Campbell of England, recently
at a public banquet, in proposing the health
of the Queen, said he was not a Woman's
Rights man in the common acceptation, but
he wished the Salic law might be so
reversed in England that woman should
hereafter occupy the throne. The senti-
ment was received with applause, in which
two members of Parliament who were pres-
ent joined. 
	THERE IS a bright prospect now that the
statue designed to commemorate the first
Centennial anniversary of American inde-
pendence will be completed: the joint work
of the French and American people. The
statue will be the representation of the
Goddess of Liberty, and will be located at
Bedloe's Island, near New York harbor,
where it may be seen by all going out or
coming in from the great Metropolis of the
United States. The statue will be one hun-
dred feet in height, the pedestal eighty
feet. The goddess will wear a crown upon
her head from which will burst out beams
of light, illuminating at night the sky and 
all around. 
	FAMINE IN CHINA- England and Amer-
ica are called upon to aid in raising funds
to assist the Chinese in this their hour of
distress. "This fearful calamity has burst
out in the province of Shan Tung in the
northern part of China, but the greatest
distress is in the prefecture of Wu Ting Fu,
a densely populous part of the country,
where the crops have wholly failed." For
three months it is said the people there
have been living on the barks and roots of
trees. Multitudes are dying of starvation.
Many persons have taken their own lives,
and some parents have even buried their
children alive. Letters have been sent to
the merchants of Shanghai, Canton and
Hong Kong, soliciting help in the strong-
est terms. American Missionaries there
have suggested the most proper methods
of sending funds.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, March 3rd, was especially inter-
esting. The day was a very stormy one, but
all who were there seemed filled with that
good spirit, which cannot fail to make glad
the heart. There were very few minutes
from Junior Associations, and the time was
therefore devoted to speaking. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. M. I. Horne, gave some of her
experiences of many years since, and relat-
ed incidents of note in the life of Joseph
Smith, which had come under her direct
observation. Counselors Mrs. Z. D. Young,
Mrs. P. Woodruff, and B. W. Smith,
all spoke upon the duties and particular
mission of the sisters. Mrs. Woodruff
spoke of her anticipated visit to St. George,
and exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and
to ask the Lord continually for wisdom.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. L. A.
Wells and others spoke upon those subjects
which are immediately connected with the
practical work under the supervision of the
sisters, exhorted to caution and diligence,
and to beware of false spirits. President
Mrs. M. I. Horne sang a "song of Zion."
These meetings really seem to be spiritual
feasts for those who are seeking to unite
their efforts in assisting to bring about a
universal reform, and preparing for those
great events which are about to transpire.

		TOOELE CITY, Feb. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take the pleasure of communicating a
few of my thoughts to you, thinking that
you are always pleased to hear from your
sisters of the Retrenchment Association.
I attended a meeting of the Young Ladies'
on the 23 inst. and was very much edified.
They have changed their meetings from
the day time to the evening, in conse-
quence of many of the girls attending
school, and meet once a week. The Y. M.
M. I. Association and the Young Ladies'
Retrenchment Association will meet to-
gether once a month, when the minutes of
both Associations of the past three meet-
ing will be held on the second of March
when we anticipate a good time. Our new
Social Hall has been so far completed so as
to admit of dancing in it; and we have had
quite a number of good dances and one
concert in it which have proved entirely
successful. We expect to have another
concert on the fifth of March, which will be
for the benefit of the hall. We cannot say
like some of your correspondents, that we
have had no round dancing since sisters E.
R. Snow, Zina D. Young, M. I. Horne and
E. Howard organized us a little over two
years ago; but I am happy to say that a few
of our sisters have kept the resolutions
sacred; not because they did not enjoy
these pleasures, but because they wished to
obey the counsel of those who are older and
wiser, that they might receive the blessing
which always follows obedience. We as a
Retrenchment Association have commenced
Storing up Grain and we hope to go on in
this good work and cast in our mites with
our sisters who are engaged in preparing
for a day of want. We have had a great
amount of good instructions from our breth-
ren and sisters of late, with regard to the
"signs of the times." I believe that we
fully appreciate the blessings and privileges
with which we are surrounded.
	Hoping that the daughters of Zion may
become more efficient helps in the kingdom
of God, is the humble desire of your sister
in the Gospel of peace.
							M. L. L.
				Corresponding Secretary.

			SLATERVILLE, Feb. 25, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place meet
regularly and a good spirit prevails; we en-
joy ourselves very much, and often receive
encouraging instruction from the brethren
who frequently visit our meetings. The
sisters take a lively interest in the perform-
ance of their duties knowing that much
good can be accomplished if their labors
are applied in the right direction, putting
their trust in God. I will not weary you
with a lengthy article at present, but per-
haps you may hear from me again in the
future. I will now conclude.
	Your sister and co-worker,
						MARY FIELD.
	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., March 1, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our society is in a prosperous condition,
the members are interested in their duties
and feel determined to do all in their pow-
er to forward the good cause in which they
are engaged. I would say in relation to the
Grain Question, we are not over stocked
with that commodity in this northern re-
gion, owing to occasional frosts before our
crops mature; although as a general thing
enough is raised, and some to spare, of
good sound wheat, to furnish bread for the
community. The society has a small
amount on hand, and intend adding to that
little as fast as our limited means will al-
low, and with the help of our Heavenly
Father we will exert ourselves and secure
all the grain we can to store for future emer-
gencies, knowing as we do so that it is the
wish of our beloved President, that wheat
should be stored up for a time of need.
Pres't. C. C. Rich. Bishop Wm. Budge, and
others of the brethren, have from time to
time given us good counsel with regard to
this matter, and if we put in practice the
counsel of good men, we know we are in
the line of our duty.
	Taking into consideration the standing
of the society financially, we have dona-
ted liberally to the Temple Fund, and wish
we had been able to have done more. The
past winter has been unusually mild for this
part of the country; not more than from
eight to ten inches of snow has fallen at
one time during the season. We are now
blessed with delightful weather, and from
all appearances can commence ploughing
and putting in crops much earlier than
heretofore. Peace prevails in this settle-
ment with fair prospects of a happy future.
Hoping that we may realize our anticipa-
tions, and ever be found diligent servants
in aiding and assisting to move forward
the Lord's great work, and at last be found
worthy of the reward promised to the faith-
ful.
	I am your sister etc.
				Alice M. Rich, Sec'y.
	ANOTHER LITERARY INCORRIGBILE.—
Gustave Planche, the distinguished French
reviewer, read so much that he had seldom
time to wash his hands. One day, howev-
er, a lady with whom he was engaged to
dine succeeded in persuading him to ac-
cept a ticket for a warm bath. He took the
bath, but presented himself at dinner with
his hands still unwashed. During his im-
mersion he had read incessantly, and, hold
ing the book in his hands, had not once
dipped them in the water.

	THE SISTER.—No household is complete
without a sister. She gives the finish to
the family. A sister's love, a sister's influ-
ence—what can be more hallowed?. A sis-
ter's watchful care—can anything be more
tender? A sister's kindness—does the
world show us anything purer? Who would
live without a sister? A sister is a sort of
guardian angel in the home-circle. Her
presence condemns vice. She is the quick-
ener of good resolutions, the sunshine in the
pathway of home. To every brother she
is light and life. Her heart is the treasure-
house of confidence. In her he finds a safe
adviser, a charitable, forgiving, tender,
though often severe friend. In her he
finds a ready companion. Her sympathy
is as open as day and as sweet as the fra-
grance of flowers. We pity the brother
who has no sister, no sister's love. We feel
sorry for the home which is not enlivened by
a sisters presence. A sisters office is a no-
ble and gentle one. It is hers to persuade
to virtue, to win to wisdom's ways; gently
to lead where duty calls; to guard the
citadel of home with the sleepless vig-
ilance of virtue; to gather graces and strew
flowers around the home-altar. To be a sis-
ter is to hold a sweet place in the heart of
home. To minister in a holy office.


H﻿OW TO CALCULATE INTEREST,.
AND WHAT IT WILL DO.

	The following rules are so simple and so
true according to all business usuages, that
every banker, broker, merchant or clerk
should post them up for reference. There
being no such thing as a fraction in it, there
is scarcely any liability to error or mistake.
By no other arithmetical process can the de-
sired information be obtained by so few fig-
uers.
	Six per cent.—Multiply any given num-
ber of dollars by the number of days of in-
terest desired, separate the right hand fig-
ure and divide by six, the result is the true
interest on such sdum for such number of
days at six per cent.
	Eight per cent—-Multiply any given
amount by the number of days upon which
it is desired to ascertain the interest, and
divide by forty-five and the result will be
the interest of such for the time required
at eight per cent.
 Ten per cent.—Multiply the same as
above, and divide by thirty-six, and the re-
sult will show the rate of interest at ten
per cent.
	What it will do.—If a mechanic or clerk
saves only 2 cents per day from the time
he is twenty-one until he is three score and
ten, the aggregate with interest will
amount to $2,900; and a daily saving of
27 1/2 cents reaches the important sum of
$29,00.
	A sixpence saved daily will provide a
fund of nearly $7,00—sufficient to purchase
a good farm. There are few employees
who cannot save daily, by abstaining from
the use of cigars tobacco, liquor etc., twice or
ten times the amount of the six cent piece.
Every person should provide for old age,
and the man in business who can lay away
a dollar a day will eventually find himself
possessed of over $100,000.


AN Irish lover remarks, "It's a very
great pleasure to be alone, especially when
yer swat heart is wid ye."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WASHINGTON.

Land of the West! though passing brief the record of 
	"thine age,
Thou hast a name that darkens all on history's wide page!
Let all the blasts of fame ring out--thine shall be loudest
		far;
Let others boast their satellites--thou hast the planet star.
Thou hast a name whose characters of light shall ne'er de-
		part; 
'Tis stamped upon the dullest brain, and warms the cold-
		est heart;
A war-cry fit for any land where freedom's to be won.
Land of the west! it stands alone--it is thy Washington!
Rome had its Ceasar, great and brave; but stain was on
		his wreath -
He lived the heartless conqueror and died the tyrant's
		death.
France had its eagle; but its wings, though lofty they
		might soar,
Were spread in false ambition's flight, and dipped in mur-
		der's gore.
Those Hero gods, whose mighty sway would fain have
		chained the waves--
Who flashed their blades with tiger zeal, to make a world
		of slaves -
Who, though their kindred barred the path, still fiercely
		waded on;
Oh! where shall be their "glory" by the side of Washing-
		ton?
He fought but not with love of strife; he struck but to de-
		fend;
And ere he turned a people's foe; he sought to be a friend.
He strove to keep his country's right by reason's gentle
		word,
And sighed when fell injustice threw the challenge sword
		to sword.
He stood the firm, the calm, the wise, the patriot and
		sage;
He showed no deep, avenging hate--no burst of despot
		rage.
He stood for liberty and truth, and dauntlessly led on,
Till shouts of victory gave forth the name of Washington.
No ear of triumph bore him through a city filled with
		grief.
No groaning captives at the wheels proclaimed him victor
		chief;
He broke the gyves of slavery with strong and high dis-
		dain;
And cast no sceptre from the links when he had crushed
		the chain.
	He saved his land, but did not lay his soldier trappings
		down
To change them for the regal vest, and don a kingly
		crown.
Fame was too earnest in her joy--too proud of such a son,
To let a robe and title mask a noble Washington.
England, my heart is truly thine - my loved, my native
earth!
The land that holds a mother's grave, and gave that
mother birth!
Oh, keenly sad would be the fate, that thrust me from thy
		shore,
And faltering my breath, that sighed, "Farewell forever
		more!"
But did I meet such adverse lot, I would not seek to dwell
Where olden heroes wrought the deeds for Homer's song
		to tell.
Away, thou gallant ship! I'd cry, and bear me swiftly on,
But bear me from my own fair land to that of Washing-
ton.
										ELIZA COOK.


REMEMBRANCES.

	       BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

		"That heart methinks
Were of strange mould which kept no cherished print
Of earlier, happier times, when life was fresh,
And love and innocence made holiday." 
	If there is any theme that never grows
monotonous, and of which we can always
call forth fresh thoughts, and tender recol-
lections it is childhood.  It is a subject that
touches the strongest hearts, and never
fails to bring some pleasant remembrance
to the most cold and barren mind. "When
I was a child," says the happy mother, the
fond father, the aged grand-parents, the
good aunts and uncles; and how they love
to take the little children in their arms and
tell them of their own child-life.  Always
some, reminiscences of "earlier happier
times" that send the life-current rushing
swifter through the veins, or make the
heart-strings ring out the echoing music of
the pleasures of the past.
 It is good to keep a living spring from
the fountain of one's childhood open,
through all future life, for it refreshes the
wanderer upon life's journey; and in many
barren, desolate places, it revives the droop-
ing spirit, and reanimates the soul with the
hopes and aspirations that were erst an in-
centive to exertion, and like the gentle
soothing zephyrs from afar renew and in-
vigorate the tired energies, and act as an
impetus to force us to the accomplishment
of the resolves with which we armed our-
selves in the spring time of life.
 Many of the greatest men and women
date back to early impressions and influen-
ces the origin of the plans and well laid
schemes that have worked out for them
places of distinction in the ranks of wealth
or fame.
 Children can never be too happy, the hap-
pier you make them, the richer, and purer
will be the fountains of their thoughts, and
the growth of high and holy feelings de-
pend in a great measure upon the influen-
ces and surroundings of one's childhood-
I do not allude to wealth, or indulgences
that are improper, for the simplest enjoy-
ments are by far the sweetest to a child.
Broken dishes, and rag-dolls, and the cast-
off and worn-out finery of grandmothers,
which abound in the garrets of old-fash-
ioned homes, made the children as happy,
and more satisfied, than the grand wax-
dolls with real hair, and eyes that open
and shut, and the elegant baby tea and din-
ner sets, which mama is so afraid the child-
ren will spoil because they cost so much
money. In this age of splendor and mag-
nificence, in the homes of the rich, every-
thing is too costly for children, and their
lives are hampered and little childish im-
pulses pent up and circumscribed by the
rules of fashionable life. "Don't make a
play house of mother's room," how often
have I heard this; how much nicer child-
ren think it is to play in mother's room
than almost anywhere in the world, and
many a mother who feels too nervous and
tired to let her children play there, and 
tired to let her children play there, and 
sends them out to drink in of other influ-
ences, would in after years give all she pos-
sessed, to have kept under her own eye
those precious ones, now gone perhaps, or
imbued with ideas which sting to the very
soul that mother, whose nerves could not
endure the noise and meriment of her own
little ones. The mother's room is the dear-
est place on earth to the little child; let
them play there, let them come there to
pour out all their little griefs and sorrows;
and as they grow older, do not send them
into the parlor or some cold formal place to
tell their joys or sorrows; but in mother's
OWN room, with the freedom of childhood
give them the full confidence of unselfish
affection.
 No matter how homely or poor the "moth-
er's room" was, the heart will instinctively
turn back to it in manhood, or womanhood,
and with that feeling of unfeigned love and
tenderness which lives forever, which is
immortal within the soul, imprinted in-
deliby in memory. In the long, weary
journey of a changeful life, there are times
and places, hours of such stolid darkness
that one has scarcely courage to look for-
ward, but it is always possible to look back
and to recall some pleasureable emotions
that bring into the heart the sunshine of 
the past, and make one feel that down in
the depths of the soul there lives a green
and precious memory of some loved or 
cherished thing which time can never
dim, or trouble destroy.
"Let the dead past bury its dead" is a
poetical phrase, and one which has become
proverbial, but there is also a "living past"
which we cannot annul, and of which a
record has been kept, and the entries made
there are in imperishable characters. That
which is good and true should live forever,
should bloom perpetually.
 No doubt locked away in the annals of
the past, are the keys which must unlock
the portals of the future, and from the ashes
of buried remembrances, of good deeds
and noble acts, there will eventually arise an
incense which will shed its fragrance
through all the eternal future. Thus will
the "living past" be all powerful to ensure
an entrance through the "golden gate" into
the Paradise of happiness. "Except ye be
as little children" were the words of our
blessed Savior; then is it not meet to pre-
serve some of the simplicity and guileless-
ness of childhood, keeping fresh and pure
the fountains of truth and recalling occa-
sionally to our remembrance the innocent
trust and implicit faith of the days "Lang
Syne?"
	S.L. City, March, 9, 1877.


CORRESPONDENCE. 

MORGAN, MORGAN Co. Feb. 22, '77
EDITOR EXPONENT
	Thinking a few items in relation to this
little settlement might be interesting to
some of your many readers; and feeling a
desire to contribute for the benefit of my
fellow beings, I ask a little space in the col-
umns of your paper. The Exponent is al-
ways a welcome visitor with me; it is fraught
with such wise counsel that has a tendency
to elevate and not degrade the human
family.
	We have had but very little snow in this
vicinity, but a great deal of sickness, es-
pecially among the children.  Diptheria
has seemed to be the epidemic; this winter
nearly every family have had more or less
of it and quite a number have died from its
effects.  For the benefit of your readers I
will give a remedy which has proved ef-
fectual whenever it has been persevered in,
especially when not accompanied by any
other disease.  On the first symptoms,
which is pains in the head and sore throat,
give a warm bath, administering cayenne
pepper in cream from one quarter to half
teaspoonful doses, every two or three hours
and apply to the throat a large poultice of
raw scraped potatoes, which should be
changed at least every half hour; admin-
ster no patent medicines, as cayenne in
such large doses generally operates suffi-
ciently on the bowels.  The cayenne when
mixed in cream can be administered to
very small children.
	The croup is another very fatal disease if
not taken in time, but if a mother will
keep on hand some common Scotch snuff,
and on the appearance of croup, saturate
well a piece of thin muslin and cover it
with plenty of the snuff and apply one
piece to the throat and another to the chest,
they need not lose their children by croup,
that is if it is done in time.
	Wishing the sisters success in every en-
terprise that tends to the salvation of our 
race, I remain your sister in the Gospel.
				HARRIET WELSH


UNMASKED: "I detest masquerades" said
a beautiful young lady to a gallant officer.
"No wonder, madam," he replied "since
you do so much execution unmasked."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
LULA GREEN RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Editors
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00. one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1877.


GENUINE WORK.
 There is an innate satisfaction to be found
in the performance of real labor, mental or
physical. There is a variety of work in this
busy world and there are many ways and
means by which success in these different de-
partments is achieved.  Duty must be one in-
centive in the great labor of life, especially
when persons are brought into circumstances
which place upon them responsibilities and ob-
ligations that are uncongenial and arduous,
perhaps positively distasteful.  To do this sort
of work well, is good discipline, for it must be
entered upon so ardently and be done so thor-
oughly to ensure success, that in all probabil-
ity the desire to accomplish it effectually will
lend a force to action, and the very ardor of
the pursuit will give vigor and inspiration.
Hope of recompense is not really the best so-
lace for arduous struggling and earnest endeav-
or.  It should not in any wise be looked upon
as the main object.  If any occupation is good
enough to warrant its being undertaken at all,
it should be dealt with in the very best manner
possible and with the best grace.  Take into
consideration all the possibilities of disappoint-
ments, and then determine if possible, by skill
and perseverance to withstand them or ward
them off, and to overcome every obstacle and
hindrance.  Bring all the powers of action to
bear, and put forth the best efforts for continued
exertion, and work steadily, diligently and
faithfully. Work, constant and earnest is the
best antidote for melancholy and many other
evils which beset mankind.  Moods and ineli-
nations are but poor lame guides.  Waiting for
Proivdence or for fate to mark out some plan
for future usefulness is not good policy.  Oc-
casionally, perhaps there are strange interpo-
sitions, but man is his own architect, usually,
and can carve out his own future to a greater
or less degree according to his capacity for gen-
uine usefulness, and his untiring diligence and
faithfulness.
 In the business of life there is an immense
amount of satisfaction just from conquering
difficulties; and another pleasure consists in
discharging real obligations.  "If your heart
is in your work" is an old adage, but to throw
your heart into any sort of work you may
have to do, any clear perceptible line of duty,
would help to make the labor pleasant and  en-
tered upon by men with reluctance through
unavoidable circumstances, or contingencies and
real triumph achieved by vigorous, steady ef-
forts making that reluctance respond to the
will which resolves to succeed.
 Work is the universal mission of all, the
Savior himself inculcated this principle in all
His teachings; and employment for old and


young is a safeguard against many evils and
temptations.
	When the utmost has been done to attain a
certain point, or achieve a special success, or
solve some difficult problem, then do not go to
regretting and bemoaning if you fail, but be
sure the failure has come through something
forgotten or overlooked, something which had
not been pre-considered.  Learn to profit by
by such failures they may prove more useful
lessons in life than the most complete and sig-
nal success, for they may prepare and discip-
line the faculties and energies to accomplish
some more difficult and nobler work.
E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon arrived in this
city Tuesday evening, March 13, in good health
and spirits.  Several of the brethren went to
Ogden to meet him.
IN THE obituary of Mrs. Martha A. Murray
who died in Wellsville, a mistake occurred in
stating the year of her marriage, it should
have read 1876, instead of 1877.
ANY PERSONS writing to us under assumed
signatures, must be sure and give the Editor
their real names otherwise their articles will
not be published.
JARED O. PRATT, son of Elder Orson Pratt
of this city, and another young man named
Mathew Ingram, were accidently killed by a 
snowslide which occurred in Big Cottonwood
canon on Sunday last.
 THE NEW Secretary for Utah, Hon. Levi P.
Luckey, with his family recently arrived in
this city.  We hope his position here may be
as propitious as his name would suggest.
WE HAVE reports from many diferent Re
lief Societies and Retrenchment Associations
which we have not space for now, but wil
publish as fast as practicable.  We have also
correspondence, poetry, essays, etc. which will
all come in place in due time.

 IN THE last number of the EXPONENT, in
the minutes handed us for publication from
the Eighth Ward, a mistake was made in call-
ing Royal B. Young the Bishop's counselor.
Elder R. B. Young is a home missionary but
not counselor to Bishop Sheets.

 MRS. S. K. GREENE writes from Springdale,
Kane County, under date of March 5th:  The
weather is warm and beautiful; the almond
and apricot trees are all in bloom, and nature's
aspects are pleasant and delightful.  The peo-
ple feel to praise God for His abundant mer-
cies, and to rejoice in His blessings so richly
bestowed upon them.
 TO-DAY, President John W. Young and
some of the Twelve Apostles, started on
their journey southward, expecting to preach
in some of the southern settlements upon the
route to St. George, and to arrive at that city
in time to be present at the General Confer-
ence and Dedication of the Temple, which
will take place on the 6th of April,
 MISS E. R. SNOW and Mrs. Zina D. Young
paid a visit to Ogden on Tuesday, March 13th,
to be present at the annual meeting of the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association. The
assembly was a very large one and the spirit
of God seemed especially manifested on the
occasion. The members seem earnest in their
desire for progression and advancement in all
things and on all subjects which pertain to the
building up of the kingdom of God.  They are
exerting a powerful influence in the cause of
reform. They will probably favor us with a
full report of their proceedings at their meet-
ing, for publication.
 THE PRESIDENTIAL question has been at
last settled and if not altogether satisfactorily,
yet the commotion and excitement  the sub-
ject seems to have subsided for a time, and
toned down to a sort of quietude.  It remains
for the future to determine what will be the re-
sult of the decision of the election.  At any
rate there is a lull, and the people have been
answered in their cry, "Let us have peace."
The Scriptures say "they shall cry peace,
peace, when there is no peace."  The country
is looking forward for a policy so settled and
equitable that its results will bring prosperity.
The people are asking for their burdens to be
lightened, currency restored, and so on, but
even the man on whom rests the heaviest re-
sponsibilities cannot do impossiblities, nor
succeed in effecting any public reform unless
he is properly sustained by those who are his 
co-workers.
 MADAME LE VERT who died recently and of
whose death we were apprised through the
"Deseret News" of last evening, was one of
those genial, pleasant, amiable women, whom
to see is to love.  Her Souvenirs of Travel is 
one of the best descriptions of country and
society on the continent we have ever read.
She was a woman well known in what the
world terms the best society.  Although she
was advanced in years at the time of her short
sojourn in Salt Lake City, yet she was charm-
ing in appearance, manners and conversation.
She was, during one period of her life, consid-
ered the most popular woman in the United
States. She was much impressed by the exer-
tions being made here by the Women of Utah
to become self-sustaining, although she was
not one of the advocates of woman's rights
among the circle in which she moved.
THE YOUNG ladies of the Twentieth Ward
Retrenchment Association had a social gath-
ering in the ward school-house on Tuesday
evening Feb. 27th. In the course of the even-
ing the president of the Association, Mrs.
Sarah Howard, became the recipient of a very
unexpected presentation.  It was her birth-
day and the secretary read an address written
for the occasion, expressing the feelings of the
members of the association, and begging her
acceptance of a birthday gift, as a small token
of their esteem and appreciation of her efforts
in their behalf.  One of the young ladies then
presented the gift  a very neat ladies work box.
So perfect was the surprise to Mrs. Howard
that she was very much impressed with such
a manifestation of affection from the young
ladies.  The evening passed off pleasantly and
was one long to be remembered, especially by
the president who has won the love and confi-
dence of her young friends and associates.
May she live many years to instruct them in
the principles of the Gospel, and that they may
ever appreciate her kind teaching and worthy
example is our earnest wish.
 SERICULTURE.--The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met in the Fireman's Hall on the 7th
inst., Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young reported that the instructions on
silk raising were ready for the press and would
be printed by the time of holding our next
meeting.  She advised the members to plant
out trees and cuttings, and to use their influ-
ence to have others do so; expected to have all
the society silk reeled by the time of next
meeting.
 Very interesting remarks were also made by
Sisters Horne and Barney and others present.
Mr. P. A. Schettler said he felt greatly in-


terested in what had been said, and felt en-
couraged in what had already been done,
which was proof that all we needed was for
the people to take hold of this enterprize to
make it a success: to plant out trees and raise
the cocoons, and they could be worked right
here, and thus be giving employment to a
great many people. As soon as his trees could
be removed he would advertise in the papers.
He wished those who wanted eggs to let him
know as soon as possible. 
	Mr. P. A. Schettler and Mr. A. C. Pyper
were appointed a committee to see to the pub-
lication of the pamphlet on silk culture.
	Motioned that we change our meetings from
Wednesday until the first Friday in the month.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
April at 3 p. m.
						R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		157


A PARAGRAPH FROM THE HIS-
			TORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

		NAUVOO, ILL., Thursday, March 24, 1842.
	I attended, by request, the Relief Society 
whose object is the relief of the poor, the des-
titute, the widow and the orphan, and for the
exercise of all benevolent purposes. Mrs. Em-
ma Smith has taked the presidential chair;
Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Mrs. Sarah
M. Cleveland are her counselors; Miss Elvira
Cole, is treasurer, and our well-known and tal-
ented poetes Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary. 
There was a very numerous attendance at the 
organization, of some of our most intelligent, 
humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies;
and we are well assured from a knowledge of
those pure principles of benevolence that flow
spontaneously from their humane and philan-
thropic bosoms, that with the resources they
will have at command, they will pour in oil and 
wine to the wounded heart of the distressed;
they will dry up the tears of the orphan, and
make the widow's heart to rejoice. Our la-
dies have always been signalized for their acts 
of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel
usage they have received from the barbarians
of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their ex-
tending the hand of charity in a conspicuous
manner; yet in the midst of their persecutions,
when the bread has been torn from their help-
less offspring but their cruel oppressors, they 
have always been ready to open their doors to  
the weary traveler, to divide their scanty pit-
tance with the hungry, and from their robbed
and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with 
the more needy and destitute; and now that 
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess fa-
cilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed,
we feel convinced that with their concentrated
efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of
the stranger and the fatherless will be amelior-
ated. We had the privilege of being present 
at their organization and were much pleased 
with their "modus operandi," and the good or-
der that prevailed. They are strictly parlia-
mentary in their procedings.


MINERSVILLE, BEAVER, Co.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Polly Ann Ze-
briskie, I address you, to inform you that we
are still trying to honor our calling as a branch
of the Relief Society, and to do all in our pow-
er to assist the needy. We are one with our
sisters in Utah to follow out the counsel of our
honored President Brigham Young, with re-


gard to storing up grain. Our Bishop, James
McKnight, gave us the privilege of using part
of the Tithing-house, where we have had a bin
made, and commenced storing up grain
against a time of need. On the 14 of January
the sisters met and had a sewing bee and pic-
nic. The supper was tastefully arranged and
the bounties of nature supplied in abundance.
We held our annual meeting and transacted
business on Feb. 22; the books showed our so-
ciety to be in a prosperous condition. Our
Bishop attended the meeting, and gave us 
much valuable instruction pertaining to our
duties.
				P. A. ZEBRISKIE, Pres't.
						S. ROBERTS, Sec'y.


TO THE YOUNG LADIES SOCIETY.

	Sisters, I have not been as punctual in at-
tending meeting lately, as I would have
liked, circumstances having prevented me;
but my thoughts are ever with this society;
in my secret prayers I ask God to bless us,
to inspire us with a sense of our religion,
that we may interest ourselves in the pro-
gress of this glorious work. How many of
us realize the importance of studying our
religion, of seeking a knowledge for our-
selves that this is the everlasting gospel and
only true gospel on the face of the earth.
Not many, I’m afraid. Should we know
this? certainly we shonld; would you be-
lieve anything without knowing for your-
self whether it were true or not? One
might say why do you have to know it, let
me ask you what is the use of believing in
God who created all things, and what is the
use of asking him for his blessings if we
do not believe in him. But I take it for
granted that we all believe in a God, that
none of us are skeptical; and believing in
God, we are willing to obey him to the best
of our knowledge, even if that knowledge
be limited. Then my sisters it behooves us
to seek a knowledge for ourselves concern-
ing God’s will so that we can perform it to
his satisfaction; how are we going to know
his will otherwise; he has said, “If any
man lack wisdom let him ask of God who
giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth
not." He has also said "Ask and it shall
be given unto you, seek and ye shall find."
His word is unchangeable. Let us ask him
to show us things that we are greatly in
need of to-day, for did we all know for our-
selves that Mormonism, as it is termed, was
true, we would, I am certain, do more for
its progression than we have done hereto-
fore.
	We are called Daughters of Zion, are we
worthy the name? I think we have done
but little to be worthy so honorable a title.
I for one feel ashamed to think that l have
wasted the best of my days in idleness,
but now feel to thank God that I have
awakened to a sense of my duty. God never
placed any of us on the earth to grovel
along from day to day and never rise above
the level, and some hardly ever get that
far, all through their own carelessness. It
is our privilege to become wise and honor-
able women, and we will be, provided we
set our mark high, and work with a will to
attain it. Some might laugh at the idea,
thinking that we have great men enough
without having great women, but this is
not so, for who with any principle about
them whatever, will despise a noble-mind-
ed, good principled woman, and these
things constitute greatness; she will be a
blessing to any man who may chance to get
her.

[Column 2]
	We as girls do not wish to get ahead of
the boys, not at all, we only wish to be able
to help them that's all, do you think they
will dislike us for this? they would not be
looking at their own interest if they did.
Now my young sisters this society is called
the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Society,
do we fully understand the meaning of the
word Retrenchment, I think we do, but we
do not know altogether what to retrench
from; some people think it is from dress,
they are right, that is one theme, a small
one, but one of interest. We are told it is
from our ignorance and all evil ways, but
some people have got the idea that it is
dress and dress alone, and you will often
hear it said that the society is of no good
for the girls dress worse now than they ev-
er did; but this is not so for there is no girl
who attends these meetings regularly but
who tries to do better both as regards her
dress and all things that pertain to living a
good life. There are some few in Manti
who are a little extravagant in dress, are
they members of the Society? if they are
you very seldom find them at meeting, is
this the case with us? no we come here
feeling happy, feeling that we learn some-
thing, and that henceforth we will do all
the good we can and all in our power for
the advancement of the kingdom of God
and for our own improvement.
	These are my resolutions and I feel that
the other sisters feel the same, and that we
may continue to meet together and gain
knowledge, wisdom, and understanding,
and work with a will, so that in the end we
will be worthy to be called the Daughters
of Zion is my prayer.
							M. T.
	Manti, Feb. 19, 1877.


ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

						March 3, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In accordance with your wishes I write
to inform you that the Relief Society of
this place have responded to the call in re-
lation to storing grain. A good spirit pre-
vails among the sisters, and all feel willing
to carry out the counsel of President Youug,
in regard to that subject. Our Bishop has
kindly offered us a place in the Tithing
Office to carefully store away our grain,
which we have gladly accepted. The sis-
ters have liberally given according to their
circumstances; and we have at present,
nearly one hundred bushels of wheat on
hand. The brethren here have a good
United Order farm, and the Bishop has
promised to give the Relief Socifety an in-
terest in it; so we hope that by the help of
our brethren, we will be able to add more
to our stock from year to year. Our be-
loved President, Mrs. E. A. Willie is ear-
nest in exhorting the sisters to become unit-
ed, and to live their religion in the truest
sense and spirit. Your excellent paper is
read with great interest, and the best wish-
es are expressed for the advancement of
every good work for we know that those
who keep the commandments of God will
receive His blessings, and those who do
not will have His judgments upon them.
	May God bless you and all who are striv-
ing to do right, is the prayer of your sister
in the Gospel.
						J. A. HUGHES.
	Mendon, Cache Co., Utah.


158		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITORS EXPONENT:
	A feeling of interest and a desire to do
my part with the rest of my sisters prompts
me to write a few of my feelings. Often
when meditating I have asked myself this
question, what can I do to forward the
work of God? For I have no greater desire
than to do my part and be classed with the
noble handmaids of the Almighty. When
swallowed up in the work and cares of my
household I found but little time or oppor-
tunity to go out, except on the Sabbath to
meeting, where I would hear that which
comforted and stimulated me to endure all
trials, and to perform my duties as a wife
and mother. When I was weary and my
spirits would begin to lag, I was cheered
with the thought that the Sabbath day was
drawing near, and I could again have the
privilege of listening to the servants of God,
where I knew that I would be again re-
newed to press forward.
	I have sometimes felt a little conscience-
stricken when I thought that perhaps I could
have done more, but there is no one but
mothers who know or can ever imagine the
mother's complete responsibilities; and we
are not judges of each other. A mother's
work is never done as long as her strength
holds out. When she can go no longer
Providence provides some other way; at
least, this has been my experience. It has
been my study for years to try to the best
of my ability and all the knowledge I could
gain, to train up my children in the right
way, and arrive at the best method to lead
and manage each one according to their dif-
ferent dispositions, and also how to make
the best use of what little talent God has
given me to improve upon. Since my
health has been delicate I have been going
through a pretty hard school, but I feel to
acknowledge the hand of God in all my
trials, for I can now look back and see that
I have learned a great many useful lessons;
and I thank the Lord for them as much or
more than I would had my path been more
easy and my burdens been more light, for I
have learned the worthlessness of all things
that are not controlled by the Holy Spirit.
My prayers has been continually that God
would lead me to do His will, and I feel an
inward admonition that I am now doing
just what he wants me to do to prepare my-
self, as well as those he has put under my
charge for a work which will in the future
do much more towards rolling on His cause
than I could do anywhere else. I have
never felt that I should make any great
noise in the world. The Lord intended each
one to fill a certain niche, and I know of
none at present that I could fill outside of
my own family circle. Here I find enough
to do in trying to lead and influence those
around me to live their religion, as well as
other duties which I am required to per-
form, and if I can enjoy the fruits of my
labor my joy will be very great. A little
work done well is much more worthy of
praise than a great deal badly done, and I
believe that when the Lord has something
more for me to do that it will be made
known to me, because I stand ready and
willing to do anything that he wills for me
to do. I am seeking to remove prejudice
by writing letters, and sending our papers
to my friends and kindred in the East and
West, and warning them of the terrible ca-
lamities which will overtake them like a
thief in the night, telling them that all who
will not take up sword against their neigh-
bors must needs flee to Zion for safety.
	Last winter after being sometime sick and
low-spirited, I was administered to by Sis-

[Column 2]
ters E. R. Snow and M. T. Smoot; my
health and spirits revived. I commenced
writing sketches of my own history, and I
was blessed in doing it; I was interested,
and never while occupied in that way was I
lonesome; I forgot the things around me,
so far as the world was concerned, I was
carried back, was living my life over again,
as it were, some portions of which never
failed to bring tears to my eyes, and other
scenes brought sweetest joy. This winter
I have been requested to furnish my moth-
er's life, or experience in this church, for
the Woman's Book. I have labored care-
fully and diligently in trying to remember
and gather up the most interesting items.
	I wish my sisters to know I am wide
awake in the spirit of the Gospel, and my
spirits have not been as buoyant for years
past as they have within the few past
months.
	There is a very important work for moth-
ers to do—to watch and teach their children,
especially daughters, that they do not be-
come lifted up in their hearts above other
young sisters, which is too prevalent among
the daughters of Zion. I see so much of it
that I believe I should take it for my first
text if I was a public speaker; but I can at
least preach from it at home, as I have ever
done, and I would feel very sorry if one of
my daughters should forget herself so far
as to feel above speaking or associating with
any that she had ever known who were re-
spectable. One Latter-day Saint is just as
good as another. It is the poor and the
meek who have the promise, and I wish to
be with those who will be considered worthy
when the Lord makes up his jewels, and I
also wish to keep those that the Lord has
placed under my charge in remembrance of
these things, and of their own unworthi-
ness, instead of talking about others who
may be much better than themselves, al-
though SOCIETY has condemned them.
	The best are not yet perfect, "but charity
covereth a multitude of sins." Whosoever
exalteth himself shall be abased; and he
that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
Pride generally exposes a person to many
effronts, and humility is the surest method
of gaining respect, and how true it is,
that we must become as little children, be-
fore we can enter into our Father's king-
dom, and were he not more merciful than
we, to forgive, what hope could we have of
salvation? It is the privilege of each one
to live in a way that they can know and
understand the will of God concerning
themselves. I find that my path is becom-
ing smoother since I learned to acknowledge
His hand in all things, even in the most
common occurrences of life. I know that
if I cannot at first see and comprehend the
meaning that if I wait a little all will turn
out much more satisfactory to myself than
it could if I had planned it. If all could
come to this conclusion they would find out
the truth of Jesus' words when he said,
"My yoke is easy and my burden is light."
	That we may all become of one heart and
one mind is the prayer of your sister,
					H. M. WHITNEY


FAITH, HOPE, AND CHARITY.

	READ BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES'
			MUTUAL IM. ASS'N. 

	The three cardinal virtues. The Scrip-
tures tell us that without faith it is impos-
sible to please God. Hope is the key that
unlocks the door of happiness. While
Charity, pale meek-eyed Charity, is the
greatest of the three.


In this short essay, I shall dwell but
briefly on either of these virtues. I think
I shall endeavor to relate to you an allegory,
as near as I can, in the ancient eastern
style.
	Faith Hope, and Charity, were one day
wending their way to earth, to visit its in-
habitants when their conversation turned
on their respective value to man. "I" said
Hope. "you will both cheerfully acknowl-
edge, am of the most consequence to re-
generate man. I cheer his fallen spirits and
raise his drooping head, whisper to him of
joys to come, and teach him to bear the
present in the glad anticipation of the fu-
ture."
	When Hope had ceased speaking, Faith
gently said, "you are indeed necessary to
the happiness of man. But am I not more
necessary to him? By my aid, he can dis-
cern the future, can work miracles, and
greatest of all, can see and converse with
his Maker face to face."
	"My sisters" said Charity "your words
are full of truth. But Hope, you with
your bright eyes, gleesome voice, and rosy
lips; and Faith you too, with your mighty
power, and quiet, peaceful smile, I envy
you not. We are all blessings, but should
man possess you both, and lack my gifts,
he cannot dwell in the presence of God.
	The angel who accompanied them, sped
back to heaven with the intelligence that
Charity would win the greatest crown.
	My story will serve to illustrate my
meaning. If I were to multiply words, I
could not convey to your minds a clearer
idea of the value of these separate attri-
butes. One might perhaps live with a very
small degree of Hope and Faith, but if en-
dowed with a large portion of Charity, he
is indeed blessed. His hope of happiness
in this life may be dead, his faith but suffi-
cient to enable him to rely on God, still if
he possesses Charity, he shall know the ex-
quisite pleasure of giving, be it much or
little; he will love all God's creature's; he
will receive kindness for he will be kind
to his fellow-men; he will never have an
enemy among those who love what is good,
for he will be the friend of all such. He
will relieve the widowed, cherish the or-
phaned, and succor the oppressed and
needy when in his power to do so. Peace
shall dwell in his habitation, and content-
ment reign in his heart.
							S. Y. D.
	St. George, Feb. 16, '77.


MY DEFENCE OF "MY PURPOSE."

	My dear sisters I think you wrong me,
you say that "my purpose" is a selfish one,
that my interest extends no further than
my fireside, that in my blind selfishness for
my own, I forget the world wide work so
much needed to be done, that I ignore all
the many avenues of usefulness opening
for woman for the elevation of herself, and
am content to settle down in the home cir-
cle as if in that was constituted the height
of woman's ambition and the extent of her
sphere.
	I do not suppose that my idea of ambi-
tion or of my particular sphere would sat-
isfy every one, nor do I doubt but there are
very many ways of doing good within the
reach of all even if they do not engage in
any world-wide efforts for the common and
universal good. Certain it is that if our
practice does not accord with our theory, our
example and influence in our home circle
will not be very beneficial. Suppose I
should spend my time in passing around
from house to house consoling, exhorting


and administering to the wants of others,
while my own home is untidy and disor-
derly, things allowed to go to waste for
want of care, my children running around
neglected, growing wilder and more wick-
ed every day, really, sisters I cannot see
that this is the way for me to accomplish
the most good. It seems to me like passing
by the substance to grasp the shadow. Pa-
tiently the coral insects add atom after atom,
and mite after mite to the structure they
are rearing, until after perhaps thousands
of years it appears above the surface of the
great waters, affording homes and susten-
ance for millions of animal nature. So will
every true woman add her mite to the com-
mon stock for the common good; no matter
how humble her sphere or how small her
anticipations of success; not by overlooking
the ways and means at her feet, nor by
stepping over opportunities within her
reach, of far more certain fruition of good
results, to grasp after something away off,
something apparently more grand and no-
ble, but by doing with her might what her
hands finds to do, letting her light so shine
before men that they may glorify our Fath-
er who is in heaven." All honor to those
noble women who are willing to brave the
scorn of those who would deprive woman
of the social standing to which she has a
God given right, who toil and labor to raise
their sisters to their proper level. And
even in this respect the humblest mother
can throw in her mite, she can teach her
little boy that his sister is by no means his
inferior, that she is entitled to his highest
regard and equal in every respect to him-
self. Let every mother see to it as far as
she has influence, that her daughters have
at least equal chance of education with her
boys. My own opinion is that they ought
to have better, for are they not to be the
future Mothers in Zion? and if as is said
mothers are mostly responsible for the
moulding and shaping of the infant mind,
should not our daughters be educated men-
tally and physically with this in view?
	After all, may be my purpose is a selfish
one, for is it not for our own individual sal-
vation that we are prompted to do the best
we can? and it is impossible for us to gain
salvation for any others unless they them-
selves are willing to become acceptable with
God. At any rate I hope to labor on and
patiently await the time, when with the
Lord's blessing, I can send into the field
some more effectual workers than myself. It
is my constant care and prayer that they
may prove so.
				ESTHER A. BENNION.
	Vernon, Feb. 26, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

BREAKING THE SABBATH DAY.

	Children you may deceive your parents,
but you cannot deceive God or your own
conscience. "Honor thy father and moth-
that thy days may be long in the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee;" this is one
of the first commandments, it was written
by God's own finger on a table of stone, on
Mount Sinai; look again at the first word.
Honor your father and mother by obeying
them cheerfully, when in their sight, and
by your good conduct when out of their
sight. Let the children of pious parents
keep it in mind that they are the represen-
tatives of their parents; their good, moral
character shows that they have been care-
fully disciplined; yet it is too true that some
children however well trained, feel more
ashamed to be seen praying than to be
heard cursing and lying in the presence of
the wicked. Under the law of Moses; the

[Column 2]

disobedient child was to be stoned to death,
in the presence of the whole congregation;
there was no escape from this penalty un-
der the Jewish laws. The Bible in many
places speak expressly against disobedient
children. Read that awful declaration in
Proverbs, 30, 17, "The eye that mocketh at
his father, and despiseth to obey his moth-
er, the ravens of the valley shall pluck it
out, and the young eagles shall eat it." If
you are poor, resolve to be honest and up-
right, you may be rich in the purity of your
character, as the wise man has said, "a good
name is better than precious ointment."
"Go not in the ways of the transgressor,"
if you are seen in such company you will
have to bear part of the disgrace that fol-
lows bad deeds, and in this way lose the
the confidence of all good people. Select
your companions with great care; this is a
question of such importance that we should
not pass it over with a glance; says one,
"why should I be so particular about the
company I keep?" We should be particu-
lar in this matter, for if we form an ac-
quaintance with a disobedient person, we
are liable to partake of the same spirit.
	When I see some of our young people
running wild, breaking the Sabbath day,
taking the name of the Lord in vain, giv-
ing no heed to counsel from parents or
friends; what a stigma on their parents and
to society; what a disgrace to a young man
when placed in circumstances to earn a
name and honorable position in life, to
waste his time and talents disobeying the
laws of God by smoking, drinking and in
breaking the Sabbath. What young lady
of principle would encourage his example
by being in his company. The thought
arises what a vast amount of good might
be done by our young ladies if one and all
would be in earnest and use their influence
by improving in all things, and not only re-
trench, but by their conduct set the exam-
ple. Presidents and Counselors of the As-
sociations, you are the ones to set the exam-
ple for the young to pattern after in dress
and everything that pertains to these In-
situations.
	It is very pleasing to see the young ladies
of this place brave enough to manifest a
spirit of reform by taking a vote not to as-
sociate or even go forth in the dance with
those young men that use spirituous liguors.
Be determined my young sisters to live to
the Lord, thus setting an example before
the young men worthy of imitation; let
them understand that you mean what you
say. I can think of nothing so pure and
angelic as a young woman clothed with the
spirit of God; kind and affectionate to her
parents, and keeping the Sabbath day sac-
red.
	M. J. C.
Bountiful, Davis Co., Feb. 27, '77.


ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

			HUNTSVILLE, March 3, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	By request of our President, Mrs. Mary
J. Hammond, I send a written report of
the Relief Society of Huntsville for publi-
cation. The Society is in a prosperous con-
dition. We meet twice a month and are
united and ever ready an[-] willing to re-
spond to every call made by our president
who take great interest in striving to
bring every good and useful principle be-
fore her sisters.
	The Society numbers about one hundred
and fifty members. There are but very few


poor in our midst and they are well provid-
ed for. The Society has funds on hand
amounting to two hundred and eighty-five
dollars. We have bought a few head of
sheep and are striving to become self-sus-
taining. We have shares in the Co-opera-
tive Store amounting to one hundred and
forty dollars, and shares in the Relief So-
ciety Store in Ogden City, amounting to
thirty-eight dollars. We have a commit-
tee appointed to buy wheat and store it, to
be used in the future for the benefit of the
saints according to the counsel which may
be given through the prophet of God upon
the earth. We have a very interesting
Sunday School under the direction of El-
der Charles Wright; both old and young
seem to take great interest in attending
regularly, and in gaining useful knowledge
pertaining to our religion. The EXPONENT
is very much appreciated by those who
have subscribed for it; we are only sorry
that there are not more numbers of this
valuable paper taken in our midst.
	Praying the Lord to bless the EXPONENT,
and all who are interested in it, and hoping
you will excuse this my first attempt, I re-
main your sister, 
	MARY B. HALL,
		Sec'y


FLOWERS.

	Home is the head of the river, and an
influence, whether blessed or pernicious,
extended there will effect all its after course.
Hence the noble Frenchwoman was right,
when, in reply to the monarch's question,
"What is needed to secure the prosperity
of France?" she said, "Good mothers."
	A TRUE LADY.—Beauty and style are
not the purest passports to respectability—
some of the noblest specimens of woman-
hood the world has ever seen have present-
ed the plainest and most unprepossessing
appearance. A woman's worth is to be es-
timated by her real goodness of heart aud
the purity and sweetness of her character;
and such a woman; with a kindly disposi-
tion and a well-balanced mind and temper,
is lovely and attractive. Be her face ever
so plain and her form ever so homely, she
makes the best of wives and the truest of
mothers. She has a higher purpose in life
than to flaunt her finery in the streets, or
to gratify her inordinate vanity by attract-
ing flattery and praise from a society whose
compliments are as hollow as they are in-
sinc[-]re.


LITTLE COURTESIES.—The art of "living
together" pleasantly is promoted greatly by
the habitual exchanges of the little courtes-
ies of this life; they are never unimport-
ant, never unacceptable. Shall brothers
and sisters be less careful of the feelings of
one another than those of strangers?
Should there be, between a husband and
wife, less effort at gentleness of deport-
ment and courtesy of expression than is ex-
tended to outsiders who have no special
claims, and may never be seen again?
Shame upon any member of any family
who neglects those affections and those
suavities of deportment toward the mem-
bers of the household, even to the lowest
servant, which cannot fail to elevate the
giver, and to draw from the receiver those
spontaneous reciprocities which makes fam-
ily associations so pleasant.—The Gem.


MISS EMMA ABBOTT has made her "de-
but" in New York City, in opera, and it is
said by newspaper reporters, gives promise
of fair success.


160		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Carbolic Acid.—In a recent number of the
"Lancet," Dr. Alexander Watson recorded several
cases of small pox and scarlet fever which by the ex-
ternal application of carbolic acid met with marked
success. In the case of one patient with small-
pox, whom he saw at the period when papulae ap-
peared, he ordered an enema, and then had the
patient (a girl of eleven years) sponged all over
with carbolic acid soap suds. On the next day a
severe attack of confluent small pox was threatened,
but the child was sponged as she had previously
been, and then her whole body was painted with
carbolic acid glycerine of the British Pharmacopae.
Five grains of Dover's powder were then given to
allay irritability, and the little girl slept quietly
for several hours, when she was sponged again.
No vesicles formed, and the patient was convales-
cent in a few days. Carbolic acid was, in the
meantime, plentifully used about the room.
	Cure for Diptheria.—A small quantity of either
sulphate of iron, tannin, or chlorate of potash, put
dry upon the tongue, and allowed to dissolve
there, once in every hour, have all been found to
be most efficient remedies in the early stages of
diptheria. This terrible disease appears under
three varieties or forms. First, there is a fever,
severe pains in the head, bones and limbs, and a
very great prostration. There may be no soreness
of the throat, but on examining it, small white
specks will be noticed on the tonsils, but few or
none on the rest of the throat. These cases will
recover under any and every variety of treatment
in from four to six days. The great, but false,
reputation of many remedies and physicians is
based upon the necessarily favorable results of
these cases. Second: Large patches of false mem-
brane will be observed both on the tonsils and
back of the throat; but the glands of the neck do
not become swollen.
	The majority of these cases will also recover,
under very simple treatment, unless the disease
extends down to the windpipe, which it rarely
does. Third: True malignant diptheria, with
swelling of the glands of the neck and under the
jaw; profuse and often offensive exudations in the
mouth and throat; more or less discharge from the
nostrils. Chlorate of potash is a disinfectant as
well as a curative remedy; and if given pure and
dry upon the tongue every hour, night and day,
will rarely disappoint the practitioner. A small
dose every night may act as a preventtive reme-
dy. Sometimes tannin may be given more readily
than the chlorate of potash. The sulphate of
iron is rather more irritant, and must be given in
smaller quantities. The main points in the use of
these remedies are to give them dry upon the
tongue, and frequently and regularly both by night
and day.—Ex.


DR. Holland thinks the cure for gossip is 
culture. He says good-natured people talk 
about their neighbors only because they
have nothing else to talk about.


THE man who lives right and is right
has more power in his silence than another
has by his words. Character is like bells
which ring out sweet music, and which,
when touched accidentally, even, resound
with sweet music.


The mind grows through its ideas.
Thought is soul food, and greatness comes
of enlarged conceptions of truth. As the
barren field is profitless, so is the mind
which is barren of ideas. The one pro-
duces no bread for the world's eating; and
the other no thoughts for the world's think-
ing.


WOMAN'S RECORD.
	THE "Bosten Post" calls Miss Kate Field
a busy body indeed. At the same time she
is permanently engaged upon the staff of
the London Examiner, she is contributor to
the "Hornet, and is filling a theatrical en-
gagement in London, has recently written
a play for Herman Vezin, and a blank verse
poem which have been warmly praised.
	THE REV. Mrs. Maggie Van Cott has
been holding a series of revival meetings
in New York City, and the "Woman's
Journal" tells us that, notwithstanding the
fact that some think women have no right
to preach, she has made 1,200 converts the
past winter.
	GEORGE ELIOT is at work again on a
new novel. It is said she feels very much
disappointed that Middlemarch is consider-
ed better than "Daniel Deronda." She
herself regards this novel her master piece.
She produced her first original work 18
years ago, and the whole product of the
sale of her books is estimated at $165,000.


[Column 1]
PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO ORTHREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
	mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
		Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, G[--]ts' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

		Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
