VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1876.	No. 8.


GIVEN NOT LENT.

Friends of faces unknown and a land
	Unvisited over the sea,
Who tell me how lonely you stand,
With a single gold curl in the hand
	Held up to be looked at by me,—

While you ask me to ponder and say
	What a father and mother can do,
With the bright fellow locks put away
Out of reach, beyond kiss, in the clay
	Where the violets press nearer than you,

Shall I speak like a poet, or run
	Into weak, woman's tears for relief?
Oh, children!—I never lost one.—
Yet my arm's round my own little son,
	And Love knows the secret of Grief.

'God lent him and takes him,' you sigh;
	—Nay there let me break with your pain:
God's generous in giving, say I,—
And the thing which He gives, I deny
	That He ever can take back again.

He gives what He gives. I appeal
	To all who bear babes—in the hour
When the veil of the body we feel
Rent round us—while torments reveal
	The motherhood's advent in power,

And the babe cries!—has each of us known
	By apocalypse (God being there
Full in nature) the child is our own.
Life of life, love of love, moan of moan,
	Through all changes, all times, everywhere.

He's ours and forever. Believe,
	O father!—O mother, look back
To the first love's assurance. To give
Means with God not to tempt or deceive
	With a cup thrust in Benjamin's sack.

He lends not; but gives to the end,
	As he loves to the end. If it seem
That he draws back a gift, comprehend
'Tis to add to it rather—amend
	And finish it up to your dream.

So look up, friends! you, who indeed
	Have possessed in your house a sweet piece
Of the Heaven which men strive for, must need
Be more earnest than others are,—speed
	Where they loiter, persist where they cease.

You know how one angel smiles there,
	Then courage. 'Tis easy for you
To be drawn by a single gold hair
Of that curl, from earth's storm and despair
	To the safe place above us.  Adieu.
		—MRS. E. B. BROWNING.


[Column 1]
		ESSAY ON EDUCATION.

READ BEFORE THE TOOELE RETRENCHMENT
			ASSOCIATION,

	Having been appointed to write a com-
position I will endeavor to comply with
the request; although I am conscious that
my abilities for the task are very limited.
The subject that presents itself to my mind
is Education.
	Webster, in giving a definition of the
term, says: "Education comprehends all
that series of instruction and discipline
which is intended to enlighten the under-
standing, correct the temper and form the
habits of youth, and fit them for usefulness
in their future stations. To give children
a good education in manners, arts and scien-
ces is important. To give them a religious
education is indispensable. Our daily pur-
suits of life should be such that we could
gain information. Our language at home
such that there would be no offense taken
from it. Our manners should be courteous,
pleasant, and charming; so much so that

[Column 2]
those around would be kept in a good hu-
mor and a pleasant state of feeling. The
education of manners depends greatly upon
the kind of society in which we mingle;
almost unconsciously we will gain refine-
ment, from intercourse with the cultivated
and educated classes; while the contact with
low, vulgar minds, must, even insensibly,
affect our own manners. A certain young
lady could not comprehend the counsel of a
good father who advised her not to mingle
with certain parties; he picked up a cinder
from the hearth and presented it to her re-
questing her to take it into her hand; she
drew back thinking it would burn her; but
her father assured her it would not burn
for it was cold, she then took it into her
hand, and her father said; there, although
it has not burnt it has blackened your
hand; so if you desire to preserve pure and
refined manners, mingle not with the vul-
gar and low, lest you blacken your charac-
ter and pollute your manners. We should
strive as an association to converse with
those who are wiser than ourselves or
whose age and experience have given them
greater scope for observation than we have
had. We should always seek the assistance
of our God by prayer in passing through
the events and pursuits of life.
	In our minds this question may arise;
what kind of associates should we strive to
become acquainted with in order to edu-
cate ourselves? Now this is a question of
such great importance that we should not
pass it over without a glance. Says one.
Why should I be so very particular about
the company I keep? We should be partic-
ular in this matter, because if we form a
friendship with an ungodly, disobedient,
unwise, reckless and frivolous person, we
are liable to pattern after them; or at least,
to drink of the same spirit; hence, let our
friends be selected from among the God-
fearing, virtue-loving people, they are the
kind that God is pleased with; and His
promise to the meek and lowly is that "they
shall inherit the earth."
	Now my dear sisters, let us educate our-
selves in the ways of God, that we may be
able to do His will; and become instruments
in His hands in building up this church and
kingdom. This is the humble prayer of
your Sister in the New and Everlasting
Covenant.
						M. L. L.


HOW TO CHOOSE A WIFE.—That young
lady will make a good wife who does not
apologize when you find her at work in the
kitchen, but continues at her task until it is
finished. When you hear a young lady
say, "I shall attend church and wear
my old bonnet and waterproof cloak, for I
fear we shall have a rain storm," depend
upon it she will make a good wife. When
a daughter remarks, "Mother, I would not
hire help, for I can assist you to do all the
work in the kitchen," set it down that she
will make somebody a good wife. When
you hear a young lady say to her father,
"Don't you purchase a very expensive or
showy dress for me, but one that will wear
best," you may be sure that she will make
a good wife.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the Woman's
National Christian Temperance Union will
be held in New York City, October 25. The
delegates from each Congressional District
should be chosen before that time.
	A CORPORATION has been formed in the
District of Columbia, to be known as the
Woman's National University, for the pur-
pose of affording to women a thorough
knowledge of the sciences, divinity, medi-
cine and law, both in theory and practice.
	REPEATED EXPERIMENT has proved that
in schoolrooms lighted by windows on both
sides the children suffer more or less from
injured vision; and so important has the
subject been considered in Germany that a
law has been passed forbidding such win-
dows in schools.
	WE LEARN through the columns of the
"Woman's Journal," that in Massachusetts
at the present time they have a political
party, equally composed of men and women,
which makes one of its avowed objects the
establishment of "Woman's Suffrage."


OUT-DOOR EXERCISE FOR
MOTHERS.

	Consider it your religious duty to take
out-door exercise without fail each day.
Sweeping and trotting around the house
will not take its place; the exhilaration of
the open air and change of scene are abso-
lutely necessary. O, I know all about
'Lucy's gown that is not finished," and
"Tommy's jacket," and even "his" coat,
his buttonless coat, thrown in your lap, as
if to add the last ounce to the camel's back;
still I say, up and out! Is it not more im-
portant that your children in their tender
years should not be left motherless, and that
they should not be born to that feeble con-
stitution of body which will blight every
early blessing? Let buttons and strings go;
you will take hold of them with more vig-
or and patience when you do return bright
and refreshed; and if every stitch be not
finished at just such a moment (and it is
discouraging not to be able to systematize
in your labor, even with your best efforts),
still remember that "she who had done
what she could" is entitled to no mean
praise. Your husband is undoubtedly "the
best of men," though there are some ma-
licious people who might say that that is
not saying much for him. Still he would
never, to the end of time, dream what you
were dying of; so accept my advice, and
take the matter in hand yourself.


MR. F. G. HEATH in his useful and in-
teresting work "The Fern Paradise," tells
us what a fern is, and how it may be dis-
tinguished from other varieties of plants.
A fern is a flowerless plant, but although
flowerless not seedless, but its peculiarity
is that it acquires its seed without the in-
tervention of flowers. Ferns belong among
plants to the class "Cryptagamia," which
literally means "concealed fructification."
They are therefore flowerless seed-bearing
plants, and when they bear seek hide, it
away.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

		PROVO CITY, Aug. 30th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We notice in your valuable paper many
reports from various parts of our Territory,
of the exertions made for the improvement
of the youth in each community. We take
interest in the rise and progress of the Lit-
erary and Mutual Improvement Association
of this city, believing that we are doing an
important work. It was organized by coun-
sel of Sister Eiiza R. Snow, under the su-
perintendence of Mrs. M. T. Smoot, in
company with the four presidents of the
Relief Societies of this place, Nov. 7th, 1873,
with 27 members; the young ladies presided
alternately for a time, after which Mrs.
Jane Jones was elected to the presidency,
and was subsequently succeeded by Mrs.
Margaret A. Cluff July 20th, 1875.
	We now number one hundred and fifty-
seven members. The Association meets
every Thursday evening, and the exercises
consist of reading from church works and
other good books, with occasional addresses.
We also have a semi-monthly paper, enti-
tled the "Young Ladies' Diadem," with
motto "Virtue, Faith in God and Earnest
Endeavor," edited by the young ladies as
per appointment by the president; the con-
tents of which, consist of original essays,
poetry &c., by the members.
	We have made several quilts, which with
the proceeds of an entertainment given by
the Society in the "Brigham Young Acad-
emy" Aug. 18th, 1876, amounting to about
one hundred dollars, is to be appropriated
to the building of the Temple in S. L. City.
We take the EXPONENT and Juvenile,
besides we have a number of Church books
and other good works which are read in the
Association.
	Our meetings are generally well attended
the young ladies manifesting a great inter-
est in the work of improvement.
	Wishing prosperity to the Woman's pa-
per, and all other enterprises for the pros-
perity of Zion we subscribe ourselves,
		Your Sisters &c.,
			ZINA B. SMOOT, Sec'y.
			EMILY G. TILL, Assistant.

				SALEM, Aug. 27th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation held their first Annual Meeting
July 17th, 1876. Opened by singing and
prayer; after which some excellent peices
were recited by members of the association.
Remarks were then made by Brothers' Levi
Jackman and Robert Davis President of
this place, Clous Baker, President of the
Young Men's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation, and Willford Crocket; also by Sis-
ters Lucinda Jackman and Josephine
Curtis, each encouraging the young ladies
to be faithful to the work they were en-
gaged in; said the time was shortly coming
when they would have to rouse from their
stupor and help to bear off the kingdom of
God, with many other excellent remarks.
I will send the remarks of Father Jackman
in full as they were his last in public, and
perhaps there are some who knew him
that would like to hear them. He said: I
am always in my element when I have the
privilege of encouraging what I call the
"HOPE OF ISRAEL." There are a great
many who are in the habit of addressing
public audiences that have their sermons
written down, some write on one subject
and some another, the subject to-day is to
the youth; how often I wish that I could

[Column 2]
picture to you your present condition; the
young have got to have a knowledge of
the truth for themselves, they cannot gain
it by hearing another's experience, they
must know it for themselves. I would say
to my young sisters who have been recit-
ing, you have done remarkably well, and
I feel to say to you, go ahead and God bless
you in your efforts; it is not time thrown
away, and you will gain confidence in your-
selves by so doing, so that you will not be
frightened to arise before a congregation
three times as large as this and speak or re-
cite. I would say to the parents encourage
your children to learn all that they can
while young, for the time will come when
they will not have the chances they
now have; they will grow up and become
mothers in Israel and will have the cares of
a family on their minds; then they will not
have the opportunities that are now present-
ed before them to improve their minds.
This is why I am so anxious for the young
to learn all they can now. There are those
in our midst who are doing all they can to
overthrow the kingdom of God, if they
find they cannot get the advantage of the
older ones, they will try the young; they
pretend to be Saints of God but they care
no more for God and His laws than they do
for the wind that blows, nor half so much,
they worship Mammon and care only for
SELF; but God is able to do His own work
and don't need any of their help. After
awhile the cry will be made "Behold the
Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
Him." Have we got oil in our lamps, or
will we have to borrow of them that have?
What do you mean by having oil in our
lamps? It means to get the Spirit of God
and keep it burning in your bosoms. I
will say to those to whom we have been
listening, you have done honor to your-
selves, and those around you, I don't think
that there is one here that would say they
have not been greatly edified. I could talk
all day, but I will close now by asking God
to bless you all in your endeavors to do
right, Amen.
	Our Association is doing well under the
guidance of our beloved President Sister
Martha Curtis and her Counselors. The
young sisters take great interest in these
meetings, and are willing to respond to any
call that is made of them.
	May God bless all who are interested in
the kingdom of God, is the wish of your sis-
ter, &c.
					ALMIRA JACKMAN.

		SPANISH FORK Aug. 25, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of this place was held July 31st, '76.
The meeting was well attended and a good
spirit prevailed. The sisters bore their
testimonies, exhorting to faithfulness and
diligence in the building up of the kingdom
of God, knowing that the time is short and
much to be accomplished. Made mention
of the loving kindness of our Heavenly
Father; expressed their desire to aid by
their labors and means to build Temples, to
sustain HOME INDUSTRIES, and also to
bless the poor, the fatherless and the wid-
ows. They expressed their satisfaction at
the result of our year's labors as a society.
	Report of the year ending June 2nd, '76,
is as follows:
Cash on hand June 2nd, '75.............. $263 80
Donations since, in cash...................... 162 88
Special donations for building............ 196 98
		Total........................................ 623 66
Disbursed to poor................................. 163 87

[Column 3]
To Missionaries........................................ 55 00
Donated to Temple.................................. 16 60
For land...................................................... 32 50
Total disbursements.............................. 217 97
Am't on hand in cash and
	store pay.......................................... 208 73
Shares in Co-op. Store............................. 80 00
Land for building spot............................ 142 50
Sundries on hand,..................................... 90 00
	Total on hand................................... 521 23
	The Young Ladies' Association is prosper-
ing under the presidency of Mrs. Mary
Morrison (formerly Miss Warren.) They
hold their meetings once in two weeks, and
the Relief Society once in two weeks, they
meet with us and we meet with them, so
we meet every week, one meeting for la-
bor and one for spiritual improvement.
	May God bless the humble efforts of all
who are laboring for the advancement of
His Kingdom.
	Your Sister in the Covenant,
						MARY FERGUSON.

		SPANISH FORK, Sept. 4th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our first Annual Meeting March
31st. There was about one hundred and
thirty-six assembled in the Social Hall at 2
p. m. The time passed very pleasantly,
and about 5 p. m. when we all dined at the
same table. Every one seemed filled with
a spirit of union and advancement and all
felt like moving on with renewed energy.
Bishop Snell and several of the brethren
were present and gave some excellent in-
struction. Bishop Snell said it filled his
heart with joy when he contemplated the
progress we had made in one year. We
have held our meetings every Monday un-
til lately, when we meet every alternate
Monday with the Relief Society. Since
our last report we have been called to
mourn the loss of Sister Mary Cornaby,
who died May 1st, 1876. She was a faith-
ful member of the Retrenchment Society
and was beloved and respected by all who
knew her.
		Yours Truly,
			LUCY H. SNELL, Sec'y.
		SARAH WARNER Ass't Sec'y
		TOOELE CITY, Aug. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of Tooele meets every other Thurs-
day afternoon at two o'clock. We have
excellent times in assembling together.
Our older as well as our younger sisters
strive unitedly to make our meetings as in-
teresting as possible. We endeavor to main-
tain the principles of the Gospel as contain-
ed in the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine
and Covenants, and other Church publica-
tions; likewise those precious counsels that
flow continually from the lips of the living
oracles of God. Your valuable little paper
is like a welcome messenger in our midst,
greeted with smiles of approbation from all
quarters; and when one of our sisters holds
it in her hand to read from its pages we
feel assured that something good is coming,
and we are filled with joy and gladness.
We endeavor to discipline ourselves in the
noble and exalting principles of truth: and
we hail gladly the tidings of the progress of
Retrenchment throughout the Territory as
communicated through the columns of the
EXPONENT.


BY Mohammedan law, all sculptures and
engravings of the human face are strictly
orbidden.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COLUMBUS.

A moment let me view, as on the disk
Of mental vision—and by the aid of
Memory's mystic gift, the portrayed
History draw of this most patient man!
The majesty of man, in him, behold!—
His stature, tall, erect, and powerful,
Ever towering above his fellows!—
He wore a bland, yet theughtful countenanee,
The impress bearing of divinity.
Pale by study, brown'd by sun and sea;
No levity, or carelessness were trac'd
Upon his form or visage, every gesture,
Gravity and deliberation showed.
Among the potentates he stood a king,
Though poverty enwrapt nought could hide,
The majesty, that as a mantle cover'd him!
The prime of life he scarcely had attain'd,
Yet mental care had prematurely bleach'd
His auburn locks, and streaks of grey appeared.
His voice, deep, sonorous, and impressive,
Like one accustomed to profound reflection.
He wore a modest self-respect the aspect
Of a worshipper in audience of Deity.
Columbus!—Yes, 'tis he! whose name has rung
Throughout the circumnavigated globe!
Strange! that the Hemisphere exhumed by him,
And placed as "Beacon on a hill" before
The wond'ring world, bears not his noble name!
His great, his noble, mystic, thrilling name!
—Like imbecile ingratitude this seems!
No matter! he has yet a FUTURE—
And among the Harmonies of heaven,
Myriad, yet will tune their golden harps
In praise of him; endowed of God, and sent
To bring before the world a hidden land,
And fore-ordained to cradle gospel-fruit,
And be the Nursery of the First-born's Church.
Columbus! Blessed genius! Blessed name!
God's instrument for a work stupendous!
Isabella, with all her strong convictions,
Her warm and rational enthusiasm,
And all the whisperings within her heart,
E'en SHE dreamed not the glory of her work!
She saw Earthly Empires and present good,
And in a measure this was true and right,
But little did she dream GOD'S KINGDOM
Was to rise from out the Empire Columbus
Was impelled to seek and resurrect.
"God's Kingdom cometh not with observation."

So the work progressed, the day has dawned,
And light breathes in upon the mystic work
That Isabella and Columbus organized;
And their names shall be enthron'd forever,
And Ferdinand the TRIO shall complete.
Pioneers of untold glory were they!
God worked with them to impel them on,
Hence nought could daunt them.—On and on they
	went,
And HE, the instrument, was made to bear
Calumny, and scorn, and pinching poverty,
And the imputation "Thou art mad!"
Maniac. dreamer, visionary man!
And thus he lived, assuring them of truth,
Till youth was gone and much of manhood's prime
Until a WOMAN God inspired to hear
The message he for years had yearned to tell;
A regnant queen his helpmeet was to be,
And she his mission nobly did endorse,
And unto death remained his firm ally.

How strange an atheist is man! Show him
A NEW TRUTH, and he will spurn you from his door.
He rarely says, reason be THOU my guide,
I will INVESTIGATE, and then decide;
But no, it comes in contact with my views,
My theory, and my understanding;
The "canon's full," and I am also full,
Being fed on such a nutriment. I,
On such a canon, hence, will live and die—
Such was my father's creed, and therefore mine!
Such is the logic of the worldly-wise,
And such the "Daniels" in the judgment seat;
So TRUTH is veil'd till God sees fit to tear
The mummy wrapping, and HIS truth declare.
Then those who've crushed conviction rise to truth,
And worship her with all the warmth of youth;
And then she'll reign immortal and for aye—
And all her mandates they with joy obey.
	HANNAH T. KING.


"JOE," said Tom, "I heard a certain fel-
ler say to his girl, 'shall I have your utensils
engraved on that ring?' What do you
think of that?" "I think," answered Joe,
"he must be the same fellow who asked
the girl to let him ride in her phantom."


A MEANS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
FOR ENGLISH WOMEN.

	Among the many efforts which have been
made in different parts of England to aid
in giving women opportunities of continu-
ing their education after they have left
school, and of consolidating it even when
the thought of school days has been long
left behind, none have been more persistent
or more successful, says a London journal,
than those made at Bristol. During the
last eight years the Clifton Committee for
Promoting the Higher Education of Women
have organized and kept in action lectures
and classes. This year, however, they do
not propose to have classes or lectures of an
independent character, and the reason for
this determination is that Bristol is about
to have a college of its own—the University
College; and this college, which will be
opened in October, will admit women to its
lectures, and will also organize for them
separate classes in the various subjects treat-
ed by its professors and lecturers, and it is
believed that these classes and lectures at
the University will supply an education
more definite and systematic than that
which has been given hitherto by the class-
es for ladies. University College is the
first English institution which has recog-
nized the higher education of women as
one of its primary aims, and the committee
in their circular hope "that so unusual an
opportunity for mental training will be
turned to good account by those for whom
it is intended." For the first time men
and women students will sit in all the lec-
ture rooms of the college, a part of the lec-
ture room being appropriated to women.
The classes which will follow up the lec-
tures, and which will give more detailed
instruction, will, however, not be "mixed,"
but in them ladies will be taught alone.
The subjects which will be at first taught in
the college will be chemistry, modern his-
tory, modern literature, mathematics, ap-
plied mechanics, experimental physics, pol-
itical economy, and classical history and lit-
erature. There are also to be evening class-
es, open to students of both sexes, taught
in all the above named subjects by the same
professors and lecturers, and in such other
subjects as may seem to the council to be
required. Medical education is to be pro-
vided by the Bristol Medical School; but it
is not said that women are to be allowed to
attend this special branch of instruction.
Four scholarships for women will be offered
at the beginning of October, of the annual
value of $60 each, tenable for two years at
the University College, Bristol. These schol-
arships will cover the expenses of lectures,
classes, and registration. It is proposed to
make up two of these scholarships to the
value of $250 each, if the successful candi-
dates should need help to enable them to
continue their college course.


THE common sense of Americans has
long ago perceived the necessity for some
women to be self-supporting. Feminine
dignity and delicacy as sung by poets and
vaunted after-dinner orators, when the
last toast is drunk and the best gift to man
is gushingly if somewhat incoherently
cheered, is as pretty as painted china. Un-
til the State is prepared to furnish elegant
shelving for such porcelain, in other words,
shelter and maintenance befitting its ex-
treme fragility and preciousness, the finan-
cial crash, with its complicated problem of
wreck, constantly repeats itself; and the
question arises, what is to be done with
china, for which there is no place in the
world?—New Century for Women.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	EX-QUEEN Isabella has informed King
Alfonso that she will take no part whatever
in the political affairs of the kingdom.
	AT the laying of the corner stone at the
new building for indigent women at St.
Louis, Mo., a lady officiated, Mrs. Shepherd
Wells. This is the first instance of the kind
of which we are aware.
	ANOTHER woman editor, Mrs. Signiago
of Granada, Miss., has assumed the edito-
rial duties of the "Grenada Sentinel," as
her husband's health would not permit his
retaining the position.
	MISS Willard, in an address delivered re-
cently in Boston, Mass., argues in this wise
upon woman's duty to vote: "She had long
hesitated, but now the ballot had been pros-
tituted to undermine the Sabbath, and rob
children of the influence of Bibles in
schools, she thought it time WOMAN, who
is truest to God and her country by instinct
and education, should have a voice at the
polls, when the Sabbath and the Bible are
now attacked by the infidel foreign popula-
tion of the country."
	MRS. Paulina Wright Davis died of con-
sumption in Providence, Rhode Island, the
last week in August. Mrs. Davis was an
earnest and practical worker in the cause of
the advancement of women. She was one
of the callers of the first Convention held
in Worcester twenty-six years age, and her-
self took an active part. She was for a
time editor of a weekly paper devoted to
the interests of women, styled "The Una."
She gave public lectures to women upon
Anatomy and Physiology: she began her
career of lecturing before the public ac-
knowledged woman's right to the platform,
and helped to open up this avenue of pub-
lic speaking for others, and to make their
way less difficult.
	MATILDA Fletcher of Iowa, is spoken of
in the public papers as doing an enormous
public literary work. It is af[--]rmed that
during the past year she has lectured one
hundred nights, traveled seven thousand
miles, written a book upon "Practical Eth-
ics," for shools and families, prepared three
new lectures, two of which have been
given, "The Heart of Man" and "What can
You Do?" The other one will be presented
to the public the coming season; it is styled
"The Ethics of Marriage." Besides this
work she has devised a plan of establishing
Industrial Expositions in the public schools,
which the lower house of legislature, acting
upon her suggestions, last winter enacted
into a law." She has also spent some of
her leisure hours in practical inventions.
She is certainly a most happy illustration
of the advancement and enlargement of
woman's sphere, and th[---] who need in-
spiration and courage to persevere can find
it in such real examples as this.


THE language of flowers, which is pecu-
liar to the Turkish harems, owes its celeb-
rity wholly to Lady Wortly Montague; she
introduced it into Europe. Persians per-
sonify the rose and make it mistress of the
nightengale, to whom he tells his love and
sorrows at each return of Spring. The
Hindoos dedicate flowers to their divinity,
and represent to his imagination their var-
ious ideas through this flower language.
But in Turkish harems this mysterious lan-
guage is turned to its fullest account.
There the language of flowers is the favor-
ed amusement of the fair secluded ones,
and a perfect knowledge of it can only be
obtained through the "slaves of the harem."


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 15, 1876.


NOTICE.

	We would say to our agents and subscrib-
ers that our terms to clubs are the same as
heretofore, no change having been made;
but we withdrew the article (Club Rates) as
our paper is small and we thought it suffi-
ciently understood; had any change been
made our agents and the public would have
been apprised of it.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UNIVERSITY of Deseret has been re-
moved from the Council House Building to the
south west corner above Union Square in the
Seventeenth Ward. The building was former-
ly designated Union Academy, but will hereaf-
ter be styled University Building. The location
being a little way from the centre of town, it
will be more quiet and retired which is an ad-
vantage to study.
	DURING THE last month many. new mounds
have been made in the city grave-yard, mostly
little one's. We never watch the hearse mov-
ing solemnly along, bearing a little coffin, or
glance at the evening or morning paper which
contains accounts of the departure of little
friends, but our heart goes out in tender, yearn-
ing sympathy, and we pray God to comfort
the stricken and bereaved.
	MISS E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne and
Mrs. E. Howard, have gone on a visit to
Tooele, and vicinity, in the interest of the
Relief Societies, Retrenchment Associations,
and Woman's Department of Home Indus-
tries. They will spend a few days with the
sisters in that locality, and after their return
Miss E. R. Snow, with some of the sisters, in-
tends going north, visiting settlements as far
as Franklin, in the interests of women gener-
ally, and with the view of arousing the siste[-]s
to renewed efforts in all the home institutions
established in Zion for the promotion of good,
and the higher elevation of the human family.
	WE HAVE been requested to publish an arti-
cle in regard to seri-culture; which will be in-
structive to those just entering upon this
branch of home-industry, who are too far re-
moved from Salt Lake City to attend the meet-
ings of Association:
	When the cocoons are ready to use, put them
in scalding water and they will soften, take
from an old broom eight or ten of the straws
that are worn and tie them together, and stir
the cocoons with them and the end will cling
to them so you can get hold of it and start to
wind it on a reel; it can be wound on a com-
mon reel, although there are reels on purpo[-]e
for silk. There is no mistaking what end of
the cocoon to begin at it, because there is
only one end outside and the other inside.
Such cocoons as are perforated and cannot
be r[--]ied, can be made available by boiling

[Column 2]
them well in strong soap-suds, they will soften
and then can be spun without reeling, so that
not one inch need be wasted.
			PLAIN CITY, Aug. 29th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are certainly a blessed people in this
place. Everything we have sowed or planted
this year has produced abundantly and we
have great reason to be thankful that the Lord
has so rewarded our labors. The kingdom of God
is increasing fast in this little settlement. We
have, during the present month, had ten babes
born, all living and doing well; for those ten
babes there were only eight mothers; all are
bright beautiful children, and born in the new
and everiasting covenant. Success to them all,
and may the kingdom of God flourish and in-
crease as the bees in the hive, is the earnest de-
sire of a country woman.			A. C. H. *
	The Territorial Central Committee held a
meeting in the City Hall Friday evening, the
8th inst., to adopt such measures as should be
deemed practicable for the nomination of a
candidate for Delegate from Utah to the Forty-
Fifth Congress, Nov. 7, next ensuing. It was
decided that in order to awaken sufficient in-
terest in this important matter to elicit an ac-
tive vote, a People's Territorial Convention
should be held, composed of Delegates from all
the counties, at the City Hall in Salt Lake City
on Saturday, Oct. 7th, 1876, at 12 m. The
number of delegates to compose the Territo-
rial Convention has been fixed at seventy-eight,
and the allotment to the different counties
based upon their representation in the Legis-
lature. To secure a proper selection of these
county delegates, it was suggested that each
county hold a county convention composed of
delegates sent from primary meetings previ-
ously held in the several precincts. Each dele-
gate to the Territorial Convention should come
with credentials duly authorized and signed by
the President and Secretary of the convention
which appointed them. Each county conven-
tion should also appoint a County Central
Committee to attend to all election matters in
its county, and this committee, as soon as or-
ganized, should communicate with the Peo-
ple's Territorial Central Committee at Salt
Lake City, that there may be a concert of action
in this matter. It is for the future interest of the
people of this Territory to be prompt and ener-
getic as well as cautious and wise in these
matters, and thereby secure such measures as
shall be for the benefit of the entire commu-
nity.
	DIED AT Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah; on
Tuesday, Aug. 8th, 1876; after a lingering ill-
ness of cancer in the throat, Alvira Thomas,
beloved wife of Chancey Loveland, aged 68
years, 7 months and 3 days; her husband died
Aug. 6th, and during his funeral services she
quietly passed away. Deceased was born in
Glamorganshire, South Wales, where she em-
braced the Gospel on the 12th day of October,
1846, emigrated to Utah in 1856, crossed the
plains in Captain Bunker's Hand-Cart Com-
pany. In 1858 she removed to Bountiful
where she has resided ever since, and was
highly respe[--]ed. She was a lovi[-]g and duti-
ful wife and faithful saint. She w[-]s a lively
member of the Relief Society, and acted as
counselor to the Teachers Quorum, always
present at our meetings as long as her health
permitted. She rejoiced in the society of the
saints, and in the principles of the Gospel, and
was always ready to administer to the sick and
poor in word and deed, her actions spoke loud-
er than words; she was full of faith and integ-
rity in her religion. She was a firm believer
in the order of Celestial Marriage and lived in


[Column 1]
it for many years. Her example was worthy
of imitation, and she will reap the reward of
the righteous. She looked calm and lovely in
her rest, merciful death had smoothed many of
the care lines in her face. Great is the reward
she has won.
						M. J. CROSBY.
	Bountiful.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met at the Fireman's Hall,
Wednesday, Sept. 6th, Mrs. Zina D. Young
presiding.
	Mrs. Young said we had met to transact im-
portant business, pertaining to this society
and to find out a way to pay for the coccoons
as they are brought in.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler read a letter he had re-
ceived from the Atwood Machine Company,
Gonn., stating the prices of different ma-
chinery, as follows—
	Winding frame complete, with
		swifts, 50 spindles			   $125
	Cleaning, 60 spindles				     100
	Doubling, 52 spindles				     150
	Spinning, 114, to 120 spindles $250 to 400
	Stretching, 					   20 to 100
	Reel,						     20 to 50
	Soft Silk Winder,				   24 to 100
	Spoolers for table, (2 machines)	     100
	Mr P. A. Schettler said he had sent for a
reel that would cost $25.
	Mr. A. C. Pyper suggested that every one
interested in this organization and in the com-
monwealth of Utah be solicited to donate to
the society and the amount given be left en-
tirely to the individuals donating; also that our
merchants, business men and others be solici-
ted for donations, the object of the donations,
being purposely to raise means to encourage
and remunerate those who had raised the
cocoons, for their labor; and not only that, but
to open another branch of home industry,
whereby the aged, the lame and the young
can find employment and be recompensed;
and it would also be a source of great wealth
to Utah.
	The question was asked, 'What price shall
we pay per pound for cocoons? Mr. A. C. Py-
per said he wished to see the raisers of cocoons
paid for their labor and stimulated to pursue
it, and he would be in favor of continuing to
give two dollars per pound for good cocoons.
	The following members donated as fol-
lows—
	Mr. A. C. Pyper $10, Mr. P. A. Schettler $10,
Mr. R. Simpson $10, Mr. Wm. Smith $5, Mrs.
Zina D. Young $10, Mrs. E. B. Wells $10, Mrs.
M. A. White $10 (cocoons), Mrs. A. K. Dun-
yon $10 (cocoons), Mrs. Ann Morgan $5 (co-
coons).
	Mr. P. A. Schettler suggested that the presi-
dents of all the Relief Societies throughout the
Territory be solicited to act as agents for this
Association, to solicit donations from the
brethren and sisters in their respective dis-
tricts; and as Miss Eliza R. Snow is chairman
of this committee, please forward all donations
to her address, Lion House. It was also sug-
gested that the following gentlemen be ap-
pointed to solicit donations in Salt Lake City
—Mr. A. C. Pyper, Mr. P. A. Schettler, Mr.
A. M. Musser, Mr. R. Simpson; and Mr. Wm.
Smith in Bountiful, Davis Co.
	These suggestions, were adopted by the meet-
ing, which then adjourned till the first
Wednesday in October, at 2 o'clock p. m ,
at this place.
				R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
			NOTICE.
Mrs. Zina D. Young wishes those who have

[Column 2]
not been paid for their cocoons to call at her
residence and receive payment.	R. S.


NO CHARACTER.

	Picking up one of the latest magazines we
find allusion made to Pope's cynical reference
in his Moral Essays, of the character of wo-
men. He commences to a lady in this style;

	"Nothing so true as what you once let fall."
	"Most women have no characters at all."

	So women are indebted to one of their own
sex for this withering sarcasm, which has been
perpetuated to this day, and must even now
be brought up to prove that women are weak,
feeble and unstable in character. The writer
goes on to say, "They have no opinions they
can call their own, no preferences, no dislikes,
they are not strong enough to keep even a prej-
udice, they will passively agree to a long suc-
cession of opinions, no two of which could be
held by the same man at the same time."
	No wonder that women who are determined
to live down such accusations as these should
be designated "strong minded." Will it not
take some moral courage, some undaunted he-
roism to face such imputations of feebleness,
especially when coincided in by the majority
of women?
	It is women themselves in a great measure,
who are to blame for the estimate given of
their own character; but there will not always
be cause for such assertions, for such channels
of education and cultivation are opening from
time to time as will give to women all the supe-
rior advantages which they can possibly make
use of, and with use the faculties and capac-
ities will enlarge on general principles, and
man will find that woman is capable of strength
of character as well as man, and subsequently
when some standard writer, a second Pope,
portrays woman to the world, she will be rep-
resented in a different light. Instead of such
arguments as these hindering woman's pro-
gress it only gives an impetus to all their
movements to stimulate such as are earnest
in their endeavors to redouble their exertions
and maintain such firm purpose as shall in-
sure to them ultimate success.
	Women have seen the dire necessity for the
movement they are making, namely, Woman's


Suffrage," before they entered upon the "arena
of action." They knew from the openly-
avowed sentiments of men that they had noth-
ing to expect of them, taken as a class, but
ridicule and loss of "caste." Every woman
has an innate desire to be loved by the oppo-
site sex, God has implanted it in her nature,
consequently it is so much the harder for her
to have his opprobrium almost his disrespect,
for the sake of maintaining justice and equity
for those who are dearer to her than her own
life—her posterity.
	A very popular writer has just published
his ideas of the course which should be pur-
sued thus: "A woman with a mission is an
affliction that ought by every means within the
law to be proscribed as dangerous to public and
private peace."
	Then women are first ridiculed because they
have no opinions, and then without judge or
jury condemned as heretics because they have
opinions of their own. This subject will bear
descanting upon; we leave the field open to
those who have talents given them to use, and
our opinion is that SUCH MEN have not yet
got rid of Women with a Mission.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


For the EXPONENT.
			VALEDICTORY

	OF THE LADIES' CEN. TER. BOARD.

	The Directors of the Ladies' Centennial
Territorial Fair which was opened on the
Fourth of July and closed on the 2nd of Sep-
tember, before relinquishing their responsibili-
ties, avail themselves of this opportunity to
express their sincere thanks to all those who
either furnished specimens for the Fair, or in
other ways assisted in the enterprise.
	The interest manifested by those who have
visited the Fair has been very gratifying, and
constitutes the most desirable PRESENT success.
We have taken pride in exhibiting from day
to day the beautiful articles of taste and util-
ity, (many of them produced entirely from the
elements of Utah,) manufactured by the skill
and industry of the people of our Territory,
and humbly trust that our united efforts in
our Centennial Exhibition will prove instru-
mental in stimulating to greater energies and
be productive of much good in encouraging
home-industries.
	Through the gratuity of Pres. Young and
the generosity of the City Fathers, we are en-
abled to meet our heavy expenses incurred
through the condition in which we found the
Fair Building, occasioned by the late terrible
explosion, but after satisfying all demands,
shall have a small surplus, which will be de-
voted to some charitable purpose.
	On our own part we have spared no pains,
and have cheerfully devoted our time, efforts,
and labors gratuitously, feeling satisfied that
they were in the right direction. The only
financial success we have had in view, from
the commencement, beyond meeting our ex-
penses, is in prospective, when through the ex-
tension and general establishment of Home-
Industries, we shall as a people, become self-
sustaining.
	In conclusion we wish to be understood that
all articles of exhibition which have not been
taken away, will be safely deposited in the
Lion House, where they will remain until
called for.
				ELIZA R. SNOW, Pres
				LOUISA A. ASHBY, Sec.
	S. L. City, Sep. 9th, 1876.


For the Exponent.
	SOME THINGS THAT I DESPISE.

	I despise to see a girl get up in the morn-
ing rather late, lounge around all day with
a novel in her hand, while her mother does
the work. Such a girl will sooner or later
come to some bad end.
	I despise to see a girl, who, when there
is any work to do, has the headache, back-
ache, or some other kind of an ache; but if
there is a ball or opera to attend, her ills
will all vanish like dew before the morning
sun. I pity the mother of such a girl.
	I despise a girl who will not learn to knit
her own stockings, and make her own cloth-
ing, who considers it no accomplishment to
know how to make good bread and butter,
I pity the man she marries, especially if he
happens to be poor.
	I despise a boy whose parents have work-
ed hard to give him an education and ad-
vantages for usefulness, when placed in cir-
cumstances to earn a name and an honorable
position, will waste his time and talents,
and outrage the laws of God and common
decency, by drinking, swearing, smoking,


and gambling. And I despise the girl
who will keep the company of such a boy
	I detest a woman who is always talking
of improving her mind, but who reads
nothing more instructive than dime novels.
Such a woman will, no doubt cause a great
reform some day.
	I despise a girl or boy who are not always
kind and gentle to their parents, kind to
the poor, the old and infirm, and who do
not do all the good they can in this world.
Such are of no use, and we would do better
without them.					JUNE.


A CENTENNARIAN.

	Mrs. Hannah Hawley, of Boston High-
lands, celebrated the anniversary of her
one hundred and third birthday, Aug. 26th,
1876. She was born on the 26th of August,
1773, at Stratham, New Hampshire. Her
father, Jonathan Rollins, held a lieuten-
ant's commission in the colonial army and
stood by Gen. Warren when he fell. Mrs.
Hawley married at the beginning of the
war of 1812; her husband was stationed at
Ft. Independence, and they had been mar-
ried scarcely nine months, when in over-
exerting himself moving a piece of ord-
nance he burst a blood vessel and survived
but a few hours after. Mrs. Hawley has
remained a widow ever since, true to her
first love. Her personal appearance is said
to be most remarkable; her health and
strength are excellent, and she walks with
ease and a buoyancy of step which surpasses
many very much younger. Her hair
is abundant but very white, undisturbed
by a single dark thread. She possesses a
cheerful mind, and a placid, serene coun-
tenance, her conversation is pleasant and at
times jocular; her hearing is good and she
has never worn glasses; she reads and does
light work about the house, and up to a
year ago was in the habit of sewing; her
appetite is excellent, and she sleeps remark-
ably well, she seldom retires before ten and
always rises at half-past five. She has a
happy disposition and delights in relating
anecdotes of the war of 1812. She is greatly
attached to a pet rabbit which she keeps in
the basement and always attends to it her-
self, going twice a day down two pairs of
stairs for that purpose. She says she dis-
tinctly remembers picking huckleberries on
Boston Common, where she recollects see-
ing Mrs. Gen. Hancock and other noted
ladies who pastured their cows there.
	In speaking of cooking she remarked
"why shouldn't I cook? I'm old enough."
She remembers very little about the Revo-
lution, being quite young when her father
was in the habit of telling stories about the
war. She now goes out but little, finding
her happiness all within the home of her
declining years. She has been connected
with the Baptist denomination ever since
she was seventeen; and has never attended
any public place of amusement or rode in a
steam car. On her recent birthday she re-
ceived numerous callers, with whom she
conversed freely and cheerfully, evincing
a remarkable degree of vitality and de-
claring she was not in the least wearied by
the attention she received.


﻿To the Centennial Exhibition went Darby
and Joan, whom a correspondent met in
the Egyptian department included in the
Khedive's contributions. "What's that?"
said she.  "That," said he, reading the la-
bel attached, "is from the floor of the tem-
ple of Minervy, at Babylon, two thousand
years old." "Du tell," said she; "well, it
looks durable don't it?"


62		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomato Salad:—Take ripe tomatoes and cut
them in thin slices; sprinkle over them a small
quantity of finely chopped green onions, add salt,
pepper, vinegar, and oil if liked. Serve with
roast meat.
	Chow Chow:—Chop together very finely a head
of cabbage, six green peppers, six green tomatoes;
add two teaspoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoon-
ful of salt, a little cloves and allspice and vinegar
to wet it; this is ready for use and will keep for
a long time.
	For Jelly:—Take a preserving kettle, porcelain
is the best, have your fruit carefully picked over,
then put it over the fire and when thoroughly heat-
ed, take it off and let it cool, then strain it through
a jelly bag and measure the juice, return it to the
fire and let it boil twenty minutes briskly; add one
pound of loaf sugar to each pint of juice, stir it
until well dissolved; pour it into the glasses or
whatever vessels you use, and seal closely when
cold. The best method is to use the fruit just as soon
as it is ripe, not let it become what is called "dead
ripe."
	Dried Corn:—This is a very good way of keep-
ing corn and is much the surest method. Pick the
corn the night before and husk it in the morning,
then cut it from the cob and put it into pa[-]s and
set on the stove or in the oven, with the oven doors
open; stir it often until thoroughly scalded; spread
it on cloths in the sun, and take care of it at night
and it will soon dry. Put the corn in paper bags
and have it near the fire for some time after its
having been out in the sun, a sure way to pre-
vent its gathering dampness, and hurrying the dry-
ing prevents its souring. Good housekeepers as-
sert a batch of corn can be finished in twenty-four
hours. Soak it over night before cooking, then
simmer on the stove until thoroughly done; season
with cream or butter.
	Canning Corn:—To make corn keep well re-
quires more care than almost anything else, ow-
ing to its containing a large amount of gas in its
composition. The only recipe we can give is this;
gather the corn the night before, husk it in the
morning, cut it from the cob, put it in a jar or ves-
sel to scald, with a little salt; let it cook slowly,
so as to let all the gas that will, pass off; have
your bottles ready, and see that they are all per-
fectly air tight, and put the corn in while it is at
boiling heat, and close the jars up quickly, keep
them in a cool, dark place and never allow the jars
to touch the wall or each other, if you have a clos-
et that has no outside walls it is preferable, as
moisture exudes even from the driest walls in win-
ter and spring. It is necessary occasionally to
look at them and if there is any sign of fermenta-
tion boil the contents up again.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Prickly Heat:—One oz. cream of tartar and
one oz. flour of sulphur, mixed in half a tumbler
of water; take a teaspoonful three times a day, use
vegetable diet and cold or tepid bathing.
	For Poison:—A safe and simple remedy, if one
has swallowed poison, is a heaping teaspoonful of
common salt and the same of ground mustard
stirred well together in a teacupful of water and
swallowed quickly. It will immediately cause
vomiting, and lest any remnants of the poison re-
main in the stomach after the vomiting, beat up
the white of an egg with sweet oil, or butter or
lard, several spoonfuls, and take it; these com-
com articles will counteract many virulent poisons.
	The Wet Sheet Pack:—The advantages of this
r[-]medy in sickness and ill-health and especially in
colds, is incalculable, and as there are perhaps
some of our readers who are unacquainted with its
use, we will give them the best method in a few
words: First put the blankets on the bed, then
take all clothing off the patient and wrap him or


her in a wet sheet, covering the body closely with
blankets; if the feet are very cold a warm brick
or bottle of hot water can be used; bathe the head
of the patient while in the pack with cold water
if there is fever or heat in it, and give them cold
water to drink or some warm herb tea if preferred;
the patient should remain in the pack from half an
hour to two hours, or until there is a sense of heat
or oppression. After the pack is over the patient
should be quickly washed off by sitting in a tub
while water, either cold or tepid, is poured over
the body, or if the patient is not strong, rub off
vigorously with a dry towel or with liquor. It is
better and safer than any kind of drugs or medi-
cine, and will very often prevent the need of send-
ing for a doctor.


A REFORM CAMPAIGN NEEDED.

	The greatest danger which menaces the
Republican institutions is the growing
apathy of the intelligent masses of our citi-
zens in regard to their political duties. In
Massachusetts the statistics of elections
show a steady decrease in the proportion of
votes cast to the whole number of voters.
This decrease has been going on for twenty
years, and in the absence of some new meth-
od of political activity, it bids fair to con-
tinue at an increasing ratio. More and
more—the leading classes of society stay
away from the primary meetings and the
polls. Just in proportion as they neglect
their political duties, they exaggerate the
corruption of others, and lose faith in the
principle of representative government.
Less than sixty per cent of our qualified
voters voted in the last Presidential elec-
tion. Less than fifty per cent. of our voters
voted at our last State election.
	The only radical remedy for this evil lies
in the extension of Suffrage to women,
thereby enlisting the social element in poli-
tics. But meanwhile, it is important to
overcome the existing apathy, in order to
secure a fairer expression of public opinion
in reference to this and all other public
questions. How can it be done?
	Most readily, as it seems to me, by reviv-
ing the good, old, western fashion of hold-
ing mass meetings of the whole people, and
addressed by speakers of both parties—in
other words—by public political debates.
	Let the National and State central com-
mittees, in behalf of our strongest Repub-
lican speakers, challenge the leading Demo-
cratic speakers in every State to discuss the
national issues before the whole people.
Let all citizens, men and women, irrespec-
tive of party, be invited to attend these
great mass meetings. The novelty of the
method and the interest of an intellectual
conflict will bring out our entire population,
and insure a full and fair expression of pub-
lic opinion next November.
	There is another and higher reason for
reforming existing political methods by the
introduction of these united political meet-
ings of both parties. It will compel a high-
er order of political discussion. Speakers
will be more guarded in their statements
when they are subject to criticism and re-
futation upon the spot. Their appeals be-
ing made to members of both parties, a tone
of comparative candor and moderation will
prevail. To hundreds of thousands of our
citizens such meetings would be a political
education. Especially in the South this is
the only way in which the bitterness of
party feeling can be mollified, and a fair
election insured. For such discussions
will bring together men of all parties to hear
both sides, and this will necessarily modify
prejudice, and awaken independent thought
and judgment. They would be worth more


to Southern Republicans than a standing
army.
	With the abolition of slavery and the
theoretical acceptance of manhood Suf-
frage, the ancient  barriers are broken
down. To-day both parties substantially
accept a common platform. In this Centen-
nial year why should not both parties con-
duct a reform canvass, upon reform princi-
ples, by inaugurating political meetings of
American citizens, to consider questions of
national interest, not as partisans but as pa-
triots?						H. B. B.
—Woman's Journal.


A CURE FOR HYDROPHOBIA.

	The Salut Public of Lyons says: Dr. Bus-
sion claims to have discovered a remedy for
this terrible disease. In attending a female
patient in the last stage of canine madness,
the doctor imprudently wiped his hand
with a handkerchief impregnated with her
saliva. There happened to be a slight
abrasion on the index finger of the left
hand; but, confident of his own curative
system, the doctor merely washed the
parts with water. He was fully aware of
the imprudence he had committed, and
says: "Believing that the malady would
not declare itself until the fortieth day, and
having various patients to visit, I put off
from day to day the application of my rem-
edy,—that is vapor-baths. The ninth day
being in my cabinet, I felt all at once a pain
in my eyes. My body felt so light that I
felt as if I could jump to a prodigious
height, or if thrown out of a window,
could suspend myself in the air. My hair
was so sensitive that I appeared to be able
to count each separately without looking at
it. Saliva kept forming in my mouth. Any
movement of air caused great pain to me,
and I was obliged to avoid the sight of
brilliant objects. I had a continual desire
to run and bite—not human beings, but ani-
mals and all that was near me. I drank
with difficulty, and I remarked that the
sight of water distressed me more than the
pain in my throat. I believe that by shut-
ting the eyes, any one suffering from hy-
drophobia can always drink. The fits came
on every five minutes, and I felt the pain
start from the index finger and run up the
nerves to the shoulder. In this state, think-
ing my case was preservative, not curative,
I took a vapor bath, not with the intention
of cure but of suffocating myself. When
the bath was 52 centigrade (93. 4. 5. fahren-
heit,) all the symptoms disappeared as if
by magic, and since then I never have felt
any more of them.
	I have attended more than eighty per-
sons bitten with mad animals and have not
lost a single one. When a person is bitten
by a mad dog, he must for seven successive
days take a vapor bath, a la Russe, of 57 to
62 degrees. This is the preventive remedy.
A vapor bath may be quickly made by put-
ting two or three red-hot bricks in a buck-
et of water for fifteen or twenty minutes.
When the disease is declared, it only re-
quires one vapor bath, rapidly increasing
to 37 centigrade, then slowly to 53, and the
patient must strictly confine himself to his
chamber until the cure is complete."
	For God's sake give this remedy a trial
should a case present itself.
				G. F. Colburn,
					Washington, D. C.


WHO is the best writer for public jour-
nals? The man who writes the cheques.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		63


[Column 1]
			LORD BYRON.

	An American writer who met Lord By-
ron at Florence, has left some interesting
remarks concerning his lordship. He says,
"Lord Byron lived then in a street in the
rear of the church Santa Maria Annunziata.
A large garden at present intervenes be-
tween the house he occupied and the Palaz-
zo Zimenes. It is a pleasant and very re-
tired spot, with extensive and delightful
views towards the north. He received
me with great affability, and began chat-
tering on all sorts of subjects, asking twenty
questions in a breath. I was a good deal
surprised at the first sight of him—first, on
discovering that he was the person I had
seen on a former occasion, and whom, in
my fancy, I set down as a decided nobody—
certainly not for a poet; secondly on mark-
ing the total difference between the real
Byron and all the portraits of him I had
ever beheld. The likeness seemed to be
drawn from the 'Corsair,' 'Lara,' or 'Har-
old,' a frowning, supercilious, disdainful
thing; but here was an ordinary-looking
man, who, if he was not short and thick,
was at least shortish and thickish; and
whose countenance had good humor to rec-
ommend it, but which, in spite of a certain
regularity of features, I could not think re-
markably handsome. Of his dress I re-
member but little; only his shirt-collar was
not turned down, as in the portraits, and
his pantaloons were strapped close over the
feet—the lame one was drawn up a little
out of sight, which, I understand, was his
usual practice. He conversed with great
readiness, but not at all in a sermonizing,
bookish way. He skipped from one sub-
ject to another, broke off into digressions,
left things half said, was often incoherent,
sometimes ungrammatical, and now and
then, in spite of his readiness at an idea,
was at a loss for a word to express a very
simple thing. What he uttered was, in a
thousand instances, better said than if it
had been coolly elaborated by study, yet it
was no more than the prompting of the in-
stant. We talked in a rambling style for
some time, in the course of which he grew
more cheerful than he appeared to be at
first. His countenance struck me as sus-
ceptible of a great variety of impressions,
and his smile was in the highest degree
engaging; although the habitual expression
of his countenance when not under the ex-
citement of talk, was rather sombre than
lively."
	BYRON'S DEFENCE OF HIS PLAGIAR-
ISM.—He allowed, frankly, that he was in-
debted to the hints of others for some of
the most esteemed passages in his poetry.
"I never," said he, "considered myself in-
terdicted from helping myself to another
man's stray ideas. I have Pope to counter-
ance me in this. Pope was a great hunter
up of grains of wheat in bushels of chaff:
perhaps I have not been so laborious a
searcher, but I have been no more scrupul-
ous than he in making use of whatever fell
in my way. Mankind have been writing
books so long, that an author may be ex-
cused for offering no thoughts absolutely
new; we must select and call that inven-
tion. A writer at the present day has
hardly any other resource than to take the
thoughts of others, and cast them into new
forms of association and contrast. Plagiar-
ism, to be sure, is branded of old; but it is
never held criminal except when done in a
clumsy way, like stealing among the Spar-
tans. A good thought is often far better
expressed at second hand than at the first
utterance. If a rich material has fallen in-

[Column 2]
to incompetent hands, it would be the
height of injustice to debar a more skillful
artisan from taking possession of it, and
working it up. Commend me to a good
pilferer. You may laugh at it as a paradox,
but I assure you the most original writers
are the greatest thieves"—Byroniana.


LOST WOMEN.

	We commend the following thoughts to
the public;—"Has it ever occurred to you
what a commentary upon our civilization
are those lost women, and the attitude of
society towards them? A little child strays
away from her home enclosure, and the
whole community is on the alert to find the
wanderer and restore it to its mother's
arms. What rejoicing when it is found,
what tearful sympathy, what heartiness of
congratulations! There are no harsh com-
ments upon tired feet, be they ever so
so weary. No reprimand for the soiled and
torn garments, no lack of kisses for the
tear-stained face. But let the child be
grown into womanhood, let her be led from
it by the scourge of want; what happens?
Do Christain men and women go in quest
of her? Do they provide all possible help
for her return, or if she returns of her own
free will, do they receive her with such
kindness and delicacy as to secure her
against wandering? Far from it. At the
first step she-was denounced as lost—lost!
Echo, friends and relatives—we disown you;
don't ever come near us to disgrace us.
Lost says society, indifferently. How bad
the girls are! And lost—irretrievably lost
is the prompt verdict of conventional mor-
ality, while one and all unite in bolting
every door between her and morality. Ah!
will not those lost ones be required at our
hands?"—Ex.


[COLUMN 1]

SPLINTERS.

GENERAL.
	Georgia has forty cotton mills running
full time and paying handsome dividends
........Jersey Day at the Centennial was cele-
brated by twenty thousand citizens of New
Jersey........Fish of all kinds are scarce in
the East, and bring a very high price........
Large forest fires are reported as having
raged fiercely in several places in the States
.........The Boston Museum opened its 34th
regular dramatic season Monday evening,
Aug. 28th, with Victorian Sardou's play
entitled "Ferreol".......Boston Theatre, on
the same evening as the Museum, opened
with "The Streets of New York," Frank
Mayo personating Tom Badger........The
Globe has just opened with the drama
"Pique." This play run last year eight
consecutive months in New York at Daly's
Fifth Avenue Theatre.......The small pox has
been raging in Chili, attended with great
loss of life.......The standard of the prophet
was raised recently in Turkey; the emblem
is black, and is only displayed in times of
great peril........The World's Homeopathic
Convention, recently held in Philadelphia,
will assemble again for the same purpose in
1881........Normal schools have become ex-
ceedingly popular in Canada........Prepara-
tions are being made for building a hand-
some granite vault over the remains of
Wm. B. Astor........Musical promenades were
very popular in London the past summer
......They talk now of keeping the Centen-
nial Exposition open until December......
Gilmore's Band will begin to play in New
England in December......The Musical Fes-
tival at Philadelphia will begin Sept. 20.

[COLUMN 2]

PERSONAL.
	James Hamilton is employed painting a
large picture of San Francisco Bay at sun-
set......Queen Victoria has entered upon the
fortieth year of her reign......Mr. Henry
Vincent, the English orator, will make a
farewell lecture tour in this country this
winter, arriving in America in October......
John Bright informs the "Redpath Bureau"
that his visit to America is yet undeter-
mined; he will not leave home before 1878
...........Levy is preparing "Casta Diva" for
Gilmore's Band.......Minnie Palmer, the
New York beauty, is going to star in "Kiss-
es" the coming season........Mrs. James A.
Oates has compromised the difficulties with
her business manager by paying him $1000
......Senator Bayard received the honorary
degree of L. L. D., at the recent commence-
ment of Delaware State College......Mary
A. Livermore and Wendell Phillips were
two of the speakers at Prohibitory Rally,
in Faneuil Hall, Boston, Mass., Sept. 7th
.......Mr. Tilden and Mr. Hendricks, in their
letters of acceptance, said not a word about
the woman question.

Foreign.
	The King of Dahomey has threatened to
kill all the English in his kingdom........The
Prince Imperial of Austria will make a
visit to this country of two years' duration
.......Gen. Sickles, Ex-Minister to Spain, has
sold his establishment in Paris with a view
of returning to America......The Emperor
William of Germany will have seen seventy
years of military life next New Year's Day
......In France there are six women who are
Knights of the Grand Cross of the Legion
of Honor........Mr Duff of Edingburgh
thinks he could keep up all the "missions"
with the surplus silk worn by the ladies,
with which they sweep the streets......Earl
Russell called for an autumn session of Par-
liament.......The Bishop of Lincoln thinks
the Lord should be specially entreated in
behalf of Servia against the Turks......
Prince Milan wants peace..........Three Spanish
gunboats have been sent out to Chinese
waters at the request of the Spanish Rep-
resentative at Pekin.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"'TIS false," as the girl said when her
lover told her that she had beautiful hair.
	To write a good love letter you ought to
begin without knowing what you mean to
say, and finish without knowing what you
have written.—Rousseau.
	A COMPOSITOR, setting up a report of a
horse race, said the "fool-sellers were
busy," instead of the "pool-sellers." But
it did not alter the sense of the paragraph
much.
	IN the window of a shop, in the obscure
part of London is this announcement.
"Goods removed, messages taken, carpets
beaten and poetry composed on any sub
ject."
	A YOUNG lady in Georgia is six feet two
and a half inches high, and when her
young man sings, "Thou art so near and
yet so far," he can throw more feeling into
the song than any other man in the State.
	MARK Twain, speaking of a new mos-
quito netting, writes: 'The day is coming
when we shall sit under our nets in church
and slumber peacefully, while the discom-
fitted flies club together and take it out of
the minister.'


64		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWER'S.

	THE firmest friendships have been form-
ed in mutual adversity; as iron is the most
strongly united by the fiercest flames.
	KIND words judiciously used make us
feel all the better for saying them, and cre-
ate a glow of warm respect in our hearers
that will live forever in the heart, a moun-
tain of radiant cheer and good-will to us
and the One above.
	BY the prayers of those nearest and dear-
est to him, is a man often softly drawn away
from an immortal purpose. Where power
and strength might avail nothing, tears
and a little love avail much to shake the
soul's sense of some pitiless duty. An in-
fant's little hand may thus draw the just
man from justice, the righteous man from
righteousness; for justice and righteousness
are alike awful, while to stoop and kiss is
sweet. When a man's house is armed in
affection against him, when, instead of
help and a sword, he finds on his own
hearth only feebleness and a love that can
not understand, strong indeed must be his
purpose, supreme indeed must be his faith,
if he walks still onward and upward to the
terrible heights of God.—Robert Buchanan.


THE FIRESIDE.

	It is as the focus of home fellowship and
intercourse that we speak of the fireside—
as the spot consecrated to the freeest action
and utterance of family sympathies and af-
fections—where conjugal, parental, frater-
nal and filial anxieties, hopes, fears, joys,
sorrows, loves, resentments, confessions,
forgiveness are wont to be exchanged.
There is no other place in which can be re-
alized more thoroughly the weaving into
one of several lives, each imparting and re-
ceiving something from the rest. No oth-
er is so sacred to the memory of those who
have been summoned thence into the wide
world, who are, perhaps, afar off on the sea,
or doing their allotted work amongst stran-
gers, or removed to those more inaccessible
shores where "the wicked cease from troub-
ling and the weary are at rest." Elsewhere
the absent may be forgotten, but seldom,
for long together, at the fireside. It is
crowned with associations which touch the
heart at some point or other of its surface,
and make it thrill with affectionate emo-
tion, in which every member of the family
gathered aronnd the hearth can take an ap-
propriate share. No lesson leaves a more
abiding impression than those which gently
drop into the mind at the fireside. No fun
is more tickling, or leaves behind it less re-
gret. No history is purer, as a whole, than
fireside history, and none lingers longer or
more lovingly in remembrance. He who
cannot look forward with yearning desire to
fireside enjoyment, as the staple enjoyment
of life, is greatly to be pitied, and, if the
cause be himself, greatly to be blamed.


A GENTLEMAN.—When you have found
a man, you cannot have far to go to find a
gentleman. You cannot make a gold ring
out of brass. You cannot change a Cape
May, crystal to a diamond. You cannot
make a gentleman till you first find a man.
To be a gentleman it is not sufficient to
have had a grandfather once. To be a gen-
tleman does not depend upon the tailor or
the toilet. Blood will degenerate. Good
clothes are not good habits.
	A gentleman is just a gentleman; he is
no more, no less; a diamond polished that
was once a diamond in the rough. A gen-
tleman is gentle. A gentleman is modest.


A gentleman is courteous. A gentleman is
slow to take offence, as being one who never
gives it. A gentleman is slow to surmise
evil, as being one who never thinks it. A
gentleman subjects his appetites. A gen-
tleman subdues his feelings. A gentleman
refines his taste. A gentleman controls his
speech. A gentleman deems every other
better than himself.
	Sir Philip Sidney was never so much of
a gentleman—mirror though he was of
England's knighthood—as when, upon the
field of Zutphen, as he lay in his blood, he
waived the draught of cool spring water,
that was to quench his dying thirst, in fa-
vor of a dying soldier.—Waverly Maga-
zine.


"MAN," says Victor Hugo, "was the
conundrum of the eighteenth century, wo-
man is the conundrum of the nineteenth
century." An editor adds, "We can't guess
her, but we will never give her up. No, 
never."
	IT was told of a famous tragedian that,
at the close of an act in which he had been
the prominent character, a goose's head
was thrown upon the stage by some one
who had a spite against him. The trage-
dian picked it up, handed it to one of the
others to take away, and said, with perfect
nonchalance. "The gentleman who has
thrown his head upon the stage can get it
back at the close of the performance."
	PENCILS have lately appeared, the writ-
ing of which is capable of being copied
more or less perfectly in the press. They
are said to be made of graphite, kaolin and
aniline violet. The graphite is used in
the form of a thick paste, the koalin in a
finely pulverized state, and the violet in the
form of a very concentrated aqueous solu-
tion. The whole well mixed and molded
under the press with cylinders about four
inches long and of the required diameter.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
