VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1877.		No. 18


TEMPLE SONG.

	Hark, hark! angelic minstrels sing
		A sweet, melodious strain;
	Heav'n's high, celestial arches ring
		With joyful news again,
	Lo! now another key is turned:
		'Tis God’s divine behest;
	And those for whom our hearts have yearn'd,
		Our dead, again are blest.

CHORUS.

From the valleys of Ephraim hosannas arise,
And new hallelujahs descend from the skies,
Glad shouts of redemption from bondage resound
From the shades where the spirits in prison are bound.

	In eighteen hundred seventy seven,
		Let holy records tell,
	A Temple's finished—bolts are riven
		In twain where spirits dwell
	We've been baptiz'd for them, and now,
		As agents, in their stead,
	We're wash'd and we're anointed too—
		The living for the dead.

CHORUS—From the valleys, &c.

	Within a Temple's sacred court,
		Beneath its royal tower,
	Let humble, faithful saints resort
		To weild salvation's power.
	Salvation's work! O, glorious theme!
		Too high for mortal tongues;
	Seraphic hosts its grace proclaim
		In everlasting songs,

CHORUS—From the valleys. &c.

	A great, momentous time's at hand,
		Portending signs appear;
	The wise will see and understand
		The day of God is near.
	Ye heav'nly gates, no more ajar—
		Henceforth stand open wide;
	The Bridegroom's voice is heard afar,
		Prepare, prepare the Bride.

CHORUS—From the valleys, &c.

	E. R. SNOW.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
MY PURPOSE.

	I am not ashamed to own that I am work-
ing for a purpose in this kingdom, and that
purpose is to secure an eternal salvation in
the kingdom of God. When I left my
home in England and came here, it was to
learn more fully to keep our Father's com-
mandments, and it was with a pure motive
that I became practically acquainted with
the principles of plural marriage. During
twenty years' experience I have never re-
gretted entering into that holy order of
matrimony; I know it to be a righteous
principle, and it is calculated to be a bless-
ing to all who are trying to improve them-
selves and their posterity both mentally and
physically. I know, too, that the blessing
of the Lord attends it. I have long wished
to bear this testimony to all who will read
it, and though perhaps I have not always
improved all my opportunities of qualify-
ing myself for the position I hold as a
Mother in Israel, yet I am trying to learn
every day how best to live to accomplish
my "purpose" I am only a humble home-
worker. Circumstances and family duties
prevent me from much public service, and
I know there are many of my sisters more
capable and more at liberty to search out
the distressed, comfort the mourner, guide
the weak and erring, lead the young and
strengthen the aged by efficient and appro-
priate help, and scatter words of counsel

[Column 2]

and encouragement to the many through
the EXPONENT. For all this I am thank-
ful, and I know that every one will be re-
warded for all the good they do.
	But to return to my "purpose." I wish
to live so that I may be worthy to receive
from my heavenly Father, as my own
through all eternity, these children which
He has lent me. If I am faithful to my
trust, and can with the Lord's blessing do
my part towards instilling and implanting
in their minds the principles of this gospel
while they are young, then I think I shall
gain "my purpose." "As the twig is bent
the tree's inclined," and the comforting,
cheering assurance is given us by the wise
man, that if we "train up a child in the
way he should go, when he is old he will
never depart from it." If the Lord spares
these boys to me, and I can so teach coun-
sel and guide them that they grow up to
manhood honest and true, and become good,
faithful and efficient Elders in this Church,
then I think I shall not have lived in vain.
This is the problem for me to solve, this is
the purpose before me. While they are in
infancy we can watch them, and check lit-
tle tendencies to evil and cultivate the good;
but as they grow older they are away at
school, or in the field at work, or separated
from us for weeks and months through un-
controllable circumstances, but if they have
been taught to confide to us, their mothers,
their thoughts and ideas, to tell us of their
difficulties, and above all never to do any-
thing they cannot ask the blessing of God
upon, they will not go far wrong. When
the father is absent they should take part
in praying in the family circle, and in ask-
ing blessings; this would give them confi-
dence, and will accustom them to pray in
their own innocent, child-like way, and I
think no prayer is more acceptable with
God than that of an earnest, innocent child.
Not more than a year since, a boy of four-
teen years, with whom I am acquainted,
was riding alone across the desert from
Dugway mountain, fifty miles west of this
place; the weather was very cold, it was
near night, and he had rode hard all day,
had neither bedding nor provisions, and
was many miles from shelter. He alighted
and led his horse to a spring to drink, when
it broke from him and run off; the poor
boy ran till he was almost exhausted, but
failed to catch the animal. Realizing his
danger he knelt down and prayed earnestly
to the Lord for help. Very soon, quite un-
expectedly a young man rode up, to whom
he told his trouble; he rode after the horse,
caught him and sent him safely on his way.
With tears the boy told his mother of the
circumstance and that the Lord had an-
swered his prayer, adding that he would
always remember it.
	We cannot only have a watch-care over
our own, but every thoughtful, observing
mother will see many opportunities of
dropping a word of advice, counsel or en-
couragement, or to implant a good idea in
some young mind; in short, if we cannot
engage in much public enterprise, let us
always be ready to lend our influence to the
right, and never by a word encourage any-
thing that is contrary to, or that would
bring reproach upon any principle of this
Gospel. Let us always strive to imbue the

[Column 3]

minds of our children with the love of OR-
DER, and of UNITY, and TRUTH; teach
them to respect their parents, then they
will respect and be obedient to the Priest-
hood; and also instruct them in the princi-
ples of the United Order and of Celestial
Marriage, that they may feel like the boy
who, when asked by his mother, if with the
understanding he had, he regretted that his
mother was his father's plural wife, an-
swered her, "No, mother, I am proud of 
it."
	ESTHER A. BENNION.
Vernon, Jan. 26, 1877.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE convention of Miss Anthony, Mrs.
Stanton, and their co-workers, in behalf of
a Sixteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution, prohibiting political disabili-
ties on account of sex, was well attended.
The addresses of these ladies, and of Mrs.
Blake, Mrs. Spencer, Mrs. Swisshelm and
others, were well received. The Hutchin-
sons sang, and the meeting continued two
days.
	At a hearing subsequently had before the
House Judiciary Committee, action was
urgently requested, affirming Woman's
right to practice law before the Supreme
Court, and it is hoped that a favorable re-
sult may be obtained.
	Petitions from twenty-three States, sign-
ed by several thousand citizens, were pre-
sented to Congress and referred to the Ju-
diciary Committee.—Ex.


The "Journal of Chemistry" gives utter-
ance to the following sentiments, and there
is so much truth in them that parents would
do well to take heed to their daughters who
are bringing home such piles of school-
books: "It is indeed a depressing sight, the
groups of girls released at night from our
public schools, struggling homeward laden
with six or eight text-books, which they
are to pore over with intense anxiety dur-
ing the long evening hours—hours which
should be devoted to healthful recreation.
An anxious school-girl is a pitiable object,
as with that anxiety comes cough, sleep-
lessness, loss of appetite, and a long train of
formidable evils. We are almost willing to
say that girls ought to be prohibited by
statute law from studying out of school
hours. A law of this nature would seem
to be as much needed as that which prohib-
its manufacturing establishments from em-
ploying youth under a certain age."


"Home" is the chief school of human
virtue. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows,
smiles, tears, hopes and solicitudes, form the
chief interests of human life. Go where a
man may, home is the centre to which his
heart turns. The thought of his home
nerves his arm and lightens his toil. For
that his heart yearns when he is afar off.
There he garners up his best treasures.
God has ordained for all men alike the
highest earthly happiness in providing for
all the sanctuary of home.—Dr. Channing.


138		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	At the General Retrenchment Meeting
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 3, 1877, there was a very
good attendance. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne presided. After the usual exercises,
the reading of the minutes from the various
wards concluded, Mrs. Horne addressed the
assembly; her remarks were wise and judi-
cious, and appropriate to the times in which
we are living. She referred to the position
in which prayer should be offered, thought
it was always most appropriate to kneel, but
it was not at all times convenient, yet the
head should be bowed and the thoughts
concentrated and fixed upon the Lord while
the blessing has invoked. She also spoke
of partaking of the Sacrament in a proper
manner, which should certainly be observed.
Counselor Miss Snow spoke upon the sub-
jects of home-industries, the spiritual culti-
vation of the young and gave many impor-
tant and interesting ideas. Counselor Mrs.
Young spoke upon the silk-culture and its
adaptability to the climate of Utah and the
circumstances of the people; that it would
be a resource for means which could be
made profitable, if once it could become
thoroughly established. Mrs. E. S. Barney,
Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. A. E. Watmough
spoke upon things and principles which per-
tain to the building up of the kingdom, and
many of the sisters present bore a faithful
testimony. An excellent spirit pervaded
the minds of all.

	PEOA SUMMIT Co., Jan. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Peoa Relief Society was organized
on September 13th 1875, since which time
we have endeavored to keep pace with the
times, and follow the good advice which is
given to us through your valuable paper.
	The present officers of the Society are:
President, Mrs. Rachel M. Miles; Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Lydia Marchant, Mrs. Sarah M.
Newman; Secretaries, Mrs. Harriet M.
Marchant and Mrs. Sally A. Lee; Treasurer,
Mrs. Lauretta Palmer; Teachers, Mrs. Lydia
E. Walker, Mrs. Elizabeth Wright, Mrs.
Annie Jensen, Mrs. Annie Marchant, Mrs.
Maria Lyons, and Mrs. Martha Huffaker.
These sisters have been diligent in the dis-
charge of their duties and merit great
praise for the active part they have taken
in the society.
	The Society is in a flourishing condition
and the members, numbering thirty-four in
all, are alive to their duties, and are anxious
to forward the good cause in which they
are engaged. With the spirit of God to
guide us, and peace and unity practiced in
our every-day lives, I know that we will be
able to accomplish much good.
	We do not forget the noble move in rela-
tion to the Grain Question, and hope in
time to be able to do something in regard
to that matter; but at present we can do
nothing, having lost our grain crops this
last season by frost which has been a great
detriment to the prosperity of our settle-
ment.
	The visit of Sisters' E. Howard and E.
S. Barney was to us an enjoyable time. The
good advice they gave to the sisters in re-
lation to their duties, the encouragement
we received to live pure and holy lives,
and the benefit of the Society and the good
it would accomplish was fully dwelt upon;
all of which gave us renewed diligence in
the discharge of our duties. The visit of
these two sisters and their words will long
be remembered, and the good spirit and in-

[Column 2]
fluence which they left, will, we trust, ever
be in our minds.
	On Dec. 14, 1876, we organized a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association with the
following officers: President, Mrs. Jane Ann
Maxwell, Counselors, Miss Ann Eliza Pal-
mer, Mrs. Elizabeth Marchant, Miss Annie
M. Larsen, Miss Louisa Wright, and Miss
Elizabeth Maxwell; Secretary, Miss Rachel
E. Shippen; Assistant Secretary and Treas-
urer, Miss Luella M. Lee. The Association
at present, numbers twenty-three. The
young sisters feel well and are determined
to do all in their power to help the good
cause in which they are engaged, and by
living, and encouraging others to live pure
and holy lives that they may become use-
ful and honorable women in the kingdom of
our Lord.
			HARRIET MARCHANT.
							Sec'y.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., Jan. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In compliance with your request to the
Relief Societies, I feel it my duty to for-
ward a report of the steps taken by us in re-
gard to the grain question. We have not
made much progress so far. A committee
of three sisters have been appointed who
will no doubt faithfully discharge the du-
ties devolving upon them in this cause,
feeling as we all should the responsibility
of doing our utmost in complying with the
call made by the president of our church.
Our Bishop has kindly allowed us the priv-
ilege of storing what grain we can get this
year separately under our own care in the
Tithing Office, until we can build a store-
house of our own, which we intend doing
as soon as practicable. Upon the resigna-
tion of our beloved President Mrs. Whitta-
ker, whose death a few months ago was so
deeply regretted by all, and her counselors
a year ago last May; the Society was re-or-
ganized of which you were duly informed
at the time; under the present officers, viz.,
Mrs. Sarah Uric as President; Mrs. Mary
Ann Lunt as first, and Mrs. Sage Jones as
second counselor, the Society is in a pros-
perous condition, the members being alive
to their duties and trying with God's help
to forward His work to the best of their
abilities.
	Wishing prosperity to the EXPONENT and
a "Happy New Year" to all.
			JANE H. PARRY. Ass't.
							Sec'y.

		ALMY, WYOMING Ter. Jan. 1877
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing that yourself and readers feel a
kindly interest in the welfare and progress
of the women of our church, I write a few
lines to inform you that directed by proper
authority, Bro. Samuel Pike, the president
of the branch has organized a Relief So-
ciety in this place, over which sister Emma
Pike is selected to preside; Sisters Beve-
ridge and stoddard as counselors, and sister
Crowther as Secretary and Treasurer, to be
assisted by Sister Stoddard. This place is
not a permanent home for the Saints, but
the Coal Mines are here and those who
come here are only migratory; this is why
we have not had a society started before.
There are a great many families here and of
course a good number of good women
among them and we think much good can
be done by bringing them together, mak-
ing them better acquainted with each other
and developing talents of various kinds as
well as providing a fund for the safety of

[Column 3]
the poor, sick, and aged. Quite a number
intend to take your excellent paper.
	The duties of the Society are new to
most of us but we intend to do the best we
can to fulfill them.
	Desiring an interest in the prayers of our
sisters, we are,
			Respectfully Yours,
				EMMA PIKE Pres't.
			E. S. CROWTHER. Sec'y.

		OXFORD, ONEIDA Co, IDAHO TER.
							Jan. 17, 1877.

	We are organized into a branch of the
Relief Society as follows: Mrs. Mary Ann
Boice President; Mrs. Mary Black, Mrs.
Martha R. Cooper, Counselors; Mrs. Louisa
Croshaw, Secretary; Mrs. Ann Hepworth,
Treasurer. Our settlement is small conse-
quently our numbers are few, yet we wish
to be acknowledged by our beloved sisters
as co-workers with them in the cause of
Zion. Our little girls are classed off in
their labors under the tuition of Mrs. Lucy
Clements. The products of our labor
amounts to forty dollars since July last, con
sisting of carpet, quilts and wheat.
	I wish to mingle my voice with the
daughters of Zion. My ideas have been
aroused with regard to the high positions
that women are considered worthy of fill-
ing, aside from that of housewifery; espec-
ially in the Grain Movement given by our
beloved President. I exclaim in my aston-
ishment, can we become Saviors like Joseph
who was sold into Egypt, who by the sav-
ing of grain preserved his kindred from
the devastation of a famine, or is this com-
mandment given us that our brethren will
be more diligent in this direction or is it
given us so that we will retrench from ask-
ing our husbands or fathers for unecessary
gewgaws. My opinion is that it requires
all this to accomplish the one purpose of
storing grain; consequently I esteem it a
great privilege to be an active worker with
my associates in this great and wise under-
taking, and I thank my Father in Heaven
that I live and have a standing in a proph-
etic church. Although young, I can say
I have a husband constant and true, and
bright and promising little children, and
with him I desire to rear them in the way
of righteousness. This desire is with me
when I labor, when I eat, and even in my
night visions the care of my little ones is
with me, for in my surroundings is my
hope founded and in the cause of Zion is
my faith predicated.
		Your Sister etc.,
					LOUISA CROSHAW.


SAMARIA. MALAD, Jan. 22nd, 1876.
	Our Society is doing well. We had a
special meeting on Saturday last, for the
purpose of donating towards building the
Temple, and the sisters have promised one
hundred and forty six dollars, and two hun-
dred and fifteen lbs of butter to be paid
this year, and I consider they have donated
liberally. The brethren have done well too;
on Sunday, the 14th inst., they had a meet-
ing, Bishop Daniels presiding. They donated
for the Temple one thousand dollars. Forty
families are in this settlement, so I think
we have done very well, we have also
built a new meeting house this winter, so
we are progressing as fast as circumstances
will permit. On Feb. 14th we will have
been organized two years; we have forty-
two members in our Society.
	MARY D. PRUE,
		Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEMPLE SONG.

Shout for joy, and sing this glory!
	For the Temple now is done;
Tell all nations this glad story,
	That redemption's work's begun
For the dead and for the living.
	Who these blessings will receive,
And rejoice, that God is giving
	Pow'r eternally to live.

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
	Praise the Father and the Son!
God of Abram, Isaac, Jacob—
	Day of joy on earth begun.
And the brightness of its dawning,
	Shows the breaking of the day,
That the time is fast approaching,
	When all sin will flee away.

Glory! glory! glory! glory!
	How our hearts with rapture swell,
That these blessings we're receiving,
	Who on earth at present dwell.
Thanks to God our Heav'nly Father,
	For His mercies kindly giv'n,
For the Priesthood, and a Temple,
	For the foretaste here of Heav'n.

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
	Praise the Father and the Son!
God of Abram, Isaac, Jacob—
	Day of joy is just begun;
And the brightness of its dawning,
	Shows the breaking of the day,
For the time is fast approaching.
	When all sin will flee away.

		EMILY B. SPENCER.


[For the EXPONENT
PRAISE.

Give praise to Jehovah, His watchcare is over
	His people, though myriads seek to destroy.
Be prayerful, then, brother and sister and mother,
	Your time in the work of redemption employ.

God will not forsake us, but blessings await us,
	If humbly we seek for His spirit to guide;
Our cares it will lighten, our prospects 'twill brighten,
	And comfort afford us, whatever betide.

Then heed every warning, God's kingdom adorning,
	That you may be ready, when Jesus the Lord
In glory appearing, while sinners are fearing,
	To greet him, when earth is as Eden restored.

Then reigning in splendor with Christ our defender,
	We heavenly blessings will surely obtain;
If we have been seeking, God's laws to be keeping.
	The joys of Celestial life we shall gain.

	ELLEN W. WALLACE.
S. L. City, January, 1877.


[Column 1]

NO SURPLUS WOMEN.

CONCLUDED.
	It would be only a waste of time to call
the attention of our readers to these un-
happy and unsanctified marriages. Men
and women bound to each other by a civil
law which gives them certain privileges,
from which in some countries there is no
escape, and which in the sight of God, in
millions of instances there is no shadow of
doubt, are only an abomination. What can
be the result of such a union, what the pre-
natal influences which usher into the world
the helpless offspring of unholy wedlock?
Far better to remain single throughout all
time, than to entail the catalogues of sin
and crime upon successive generations.
Why should so much wonder be expressed
that wickedness increases upon the earth,
when men and women enter into the matri-
monial state with as little feeling, or conge-
niality as they would make any civil com-
pact or business arrangement? Not that
caution and prudence are not requisite, I
firmly believe they are, but there should
be PRINCIPLE implied, underlying the found-
ation of marriage, and requiring affection
of the most faithful and solid quality.
	Young people, men, or women, it matters
not of which sex, who have not something

[Column 2]

more than a sort of fascination, or attraction
for each other, and marry because their
friends think it very suitable they should
do so, will find they must cultivate an im-
mense amount of charity for each others
short-comings and foibles, and especially
should children be given to them, for they
see much more quickly through any flimsy,
or transparent covering, than parents are
apt to imagine.
	"Single blessedness" is far preferable to
unhappy married life; and to be independ-
ent and earn one's own living is much more
desirable than to eat the bread of a man
who, if he does not taunt you with depen-
dency, makes you feel the great favor he
has conferred upon you by making you his
wife;
		"O marriage! marriage! what a cnrse is thine,
		When hands alone consent, and hearts abhor."
	Summing up the whole matter in question
of No "Surplus Women," my opinion is
this, that good, wise and honorable men
should marry all the good women that are
marriageable, and love them too, such as
are lovable. In the world, where monoga-
my exists, there can only be an equal divi-
sion, for the rest what remains to be done?
A MISSION, if they will fill it nobly, honor-
ably and faithfully. And each one who
seeks it will find a fitting place, where all
her energies and capabilities may be ex-
erted wisely and for good.
	There is a great and growing necessity
for woman's work in the revolutionizing of
society. It is the prophetic influence of the
coming crisis, when woman's aid will be
needed, that is calling forth all this criti-
cism. At any given time when there is a
certain work to be performed, persons are
raised up and qualified to do that work, and
afterwards it becomes apparent that they
were eminently fitted, by some intuitive
power, for the very occasion. Of this, histo-
ry furnishes us abundant proofs. All per-
sons of quick perception may easily discern,
if they will, the presage of woman's era
now in progress; are not the leading char-
acteristics which mark the signs of the
times, giving notice that some great, radical
change is about to transpire?
	As an illustration let us quote the old
proverb, true or untrue ("this deponent
saith not"), "When more boys than girls
are born it is said to be a sign of war." If
there is a majority of single women, it is
for some special purpose; there is something
for them to do besides sitting down and be-
moaning their fate. "Causes produces ef-
fects." There must necessarily be a mighty
phalanx of women to establish "Woman's
Suffrage," Polygamy and other innovations
upon tradition and man-made customs of
past ages; an equal number would not an-
swer, for how could the rights of suffrage
and heritage be obtained, if their numbers
did not strengthen their ranks. Men have
become so steeped in intemperance and
many other vices, and infidelity has diffused
itself so thickly among mankind that the
puriyfying elements of woman's atmosphere
must penetrate into every circle, or sphere,
where her influence can be a power for good.
	Let woman hold herself sacred from the
touch or embrace of impurity—let her be so
chaste that the man she marries must come
up to her ideas of virtue and purity and the
world would soon see the result, but so long
as women will pander to the depraved tastes
of men who have no respect for honor, ex-
cept in empty words, whose lives are an un-
blushing lie—so long will woman be at a
discount. If the women of the world could
believe what is really before them, they
would speak louder and stronger and more
emphatically in their own defense.

[Column 3]

	We should be valiant in a good cause, and
the Woman's Missionary cause is assuredly
a good one, if it is filled with dignity and
discretion.
	AUNT EM.
S. L. City, Feb. 9, 1877.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
							Dec. 27, 1876.
MRS. L. G. RICHARDS,
	Beloved Sister and friend: I now endeav-
or to answer your truly sisterly letter of
Aug. 28th.

	We are all well and doing the best we
can. There has but one of the missionaries
as yet arrived, Bro. James Keeler, who ar-
rived at Honolulu on the 14th of this
month, reaching here on the 18th. Some
forty natives young ladies, and gentlemen
gathered here and sung songs welcoming
him again to their land. The natives
thought a great deal of Bro. Keeler when
he was here with Bro. George Q. Cannon.
His Majesty the King Kalakaua, visited
our church in Honolulu, on the 17th of Dec.
Prest. W. E. Pack had the honor of preach-
ing to him. The King's object in visiting
our church was to organize Female Relief
Societies, as he is doing in other churches,
and after services were through he pro-
ceeded to attend to that business. He
wished to raise a fund to be applied to the
relief of the sick. During his remarks he
said his sympathies were with our people.
He wished them well and would like to
see them prosper. He had learned by the
Minister, Mr. Pack, that our right name
was not "Mormon" but Latter-day Saints;
said it was wrong to nick-name churches
and people, they should be called by their
right names. He was a member of the
Reverend Mr. Bishop's church, and had
been nick-named "Behopa." Said all
churches here were aiming for the same
place; they were all the same to him and
would receive his support.
	I will now tell you how nicely we en-
joyed our Christmas. We foreigners, were
serenaded by the Laie Band which consist-
ed of four tin whistles, one snare and one
bass drum, on which the brethren made tol-
erable music for amatuers. We treated
them to lemonade (some we had manufac-
tured ourselves from limes for the occasion,)
and cakes which they partook of with a
relish, being something new to them. We
sisters joined together and had a family
dinner. All seemed to enjoy themselves,
and thus passed my first Christmas on Laie
The sisters wish to be remembered to you.
Little Millie learns the la[---]ge fast; she is
a great comfort to me.

	The weather is very pleasant; Thermom-
eter 81 in the shade.
The EXPONENT comes regularly and we 
are always ready to peruse it.  You say you
know this mission will prove a blessing to 
me.  I hope and trust my Father in Heaven
will remember me and find me worthy of 
His blessings.  I know we have the pray-
ers of the Saints.  I am your sister, as ever,
JANE E. MOLEN.


A TREASURE.--A lady applying for
admission to the junior class of an Ameri-
can seminary, on being questioned by the
president as to her qualifications, replied,
"I ain't much of an arithmetiker; but I am
an elegant grammarist."


.											 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS
EMMELINE B. WELLS
Editors.
    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
 Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
                    Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
                                                      Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

COURAGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

	True heroism is not daunt[-]d by opposition.
No accumulation of difficul[--]es can discourage
those who possess firm determination, and a
will to succeed in any certain direction. It
gives fresh impetus and s[-]rength to those who
are earnest in their endeavors to persevere.
Timid, shrinking, men and women are easily
swerved from any given purpose; the little an-
noyances of the struggles that beset all in this
life, to them seem impassable barriers. They
wilt under the influence of ridicule, sarcasm,
or satire. Persons of superior talents and gen-
nius, often become disheartened under a little
cloud of embarrassments, or unpropitious cir-
cumstances, when if they only had a little per-
severance, a strong will and a courageous soul
to combat these opposing elements, the cloud
would have burst like a bubble, and the unpro-
pitious would have changed to the auspicious.
	There is an old proverb that in war you should
"keep your powder dry and trust in Provi-
dence." Life to most people is a continual war-
fare one difficulty after another arising to inter-
cept progress upon its journey. Keep your
courage up, never let your spirits shrink in
the encounter, however arduous or unpleasant,
and "face the music" with indomitable resolu-
tion and an unlimited amount of endurance,
asking for wisdom and guidance from "Our
Father in Heaven" in the name of One who
endured all shame passed through the most
fiery ordeal and came off "Conqueror over
death and the grave."
	If there is one thing more essential to life
than another it is true courage; without it the
brightest intellect becomes a curse instead of
a blessing. To be sure there are instances
where support is given by some one of strong-
er power or force of character, but such props
are liable to be removed; the only sure trust is
God and one's self. How necessary then in
the training of a child, in the building up, or
forming a character, that there should be a
fountain of noble courage and inbred fortitude
within. Let them know the realities of life.
and do not gloss it over with any falsity, but
as the mind matures let them meet the little
emergencies that will inevitably come, and
teach them to be brave and resolute without
being designing or malicious. This is true
philosophy for boys the world over; but it is
equally necessary for girls, and were they all
trained in childhood and girlhood to be thus
brave and self-reliant, there would not be half
so mnch whining over blasted hopes, and bro-
ken hearts. Of all the conditions of women
in the world the most deplorable state is of
those who despise working for themselves, and
who have been allowed to imbibe the idea

[Column 2]

that woman's position in life is one of de-
pendency. Mothers you are doing your daugh-
ters the greatest injustice, when you allow
them to come to years of maturity without
placing in their hands a power of some sort by
which they could, if necessary be self-support-
ing. They are not fit for wives or mothers
and if they remain single they will lack that
solidity of character which will help them to
maintain any position of responsibility or
trust. Trusting in Providence is proper and
right but were this maxim to be inculcated
without qualifying, (beg pardon) but there are
those who would never get any further than
eating, drinking and sleeping; and instinct
would be their only guide.
	What can be done by men or women them-
selves is their work, and duty points the way,
the future result, the final solution of the grand
problem must be left in the hands of Him who
doeth all things well.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE regular meeting of the Young La-
dies' Association of the Tenth Ward, held
Feb. 8, 1877, was one long to be remembered,
especially by the Secretary who, on that occas-
ion was the happy recipient of a large and
beautiful chromo, both chaste and elegant;
presented by the President in behalf of the
Association as a token of respect; kind, friend-
ly remarks were made by several present and
a vote of thanks tendered the Secretary and
her Assistant for their punctual attendance and
faithfulness in the past. The Secretary re-
turned her heartfelt thanks for the kind appre-
ciation of the gift and the good feeling of the
young sisters which was still more precious.
A happy peaceful spirit pervaded throughout
the meeting and all present seemed to partake
of its influence.
	DURING THE past few weeks we have receiv-
ed many pleasant calls from strangers and
travelers, some of them seemingly very anx-
ious to learn of our principles, others of our
business interests more especially. Among
these were Alph. Mullender, Representative of
Verviers, at the International Philadelphia
Exhibition, and Delegate of the Royal Bel-
gian Government. He was introduced to us by
Mr. H. C. Goodspeed of this city; Mr. J. G.
Morrison Esq., of London, England; and J.
T. Wiltshire of Sydney, New South Wales;
the last two gentlemen staid in the city sever-
al days taking items of all the most notable
features, and attended meeting and Sunday
School, and expressed much interest in the
Home Institutions. To all these gentlemen
we explained concerning the Grain Movement,
Mr. Wiltshire gave us a good description of the
way they preserve grain in Australia in im-
bedded rock. We also acknowledge the calls
of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Cole and Miss E. Al-
lison, the two ladies being writers and corres-
pondents of papers were of course particularly
entertaining in conversation. Mr. Cole seems
entirely free from the prejudice which exists
with so many against us as a community of 
people.
	S. L. CITY, Feb. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a Report of the Young Ladies'
Retrenchment Association of the Thirteenth
Ward for the past year. Our meetings are
very well attended and the young ladies seem
interested in educating themselves in their re-
ligion, always willing to do whatever they are
requested to,that will aid them in being useful,
and improve them in mind or heart. We have

[Column 2]

in the Society a Temple Fund, which each
member can contribute to weekly, and as the
contribution is placed at five cents all can
reach it. In this manner we have collected
for the Temple the sum of twenty-three dol-
lars and sixty cents. Have also a quilt valued
at six dollars which we have handed into the
Relief Society, and quilt pieces amounting to
three dollars. About two months since we
commenced buying books intending to have a
library composed of a collection of our Chnrch
Books. Have succeeded in obtaining the "Life
of Brigham Young" which we are now read-
ing and expect before it is finished to be able
to get another, and so continue until we have
a Library of useful, interesting books, which
if not great in number are "priceless in value."
We have had some most excellent teachings
at times from the elder sisters who take great
interest in our improvement, and becoming
in connection with the other Young Peoples'
Societies, a strong and mighty phalanx in this
kingdom. Our President, Mrs. Elizabeth
Thomas, is devoted and unremitting in her la-
bors and exertions in this organization.
		L. A. ASHBY, Sec'y.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met at the Fireman's Hall on Wednes-
day, the 7th inst., Mrs. Zina D. Young presid-
ing.
	Mrs. Young said she was glad to meet with
the members of the Association and talk over
those things that were for our benefit and to
adopt such measures as were thought best for
the development of the silk interest. It was
not for the benefit of a few, but the communi-
ty at large, and more especially the rising gen-
eration. She suggested that a pamphlet be
published on the manipulation of the silk
worm, with the experience of those who had
been successful in this Territory. She hoped
to be able, before long to supply the demand
at home with all kinds of sewing silk. Mrs.
Lorinda Robinson, of Farmington, would
soon have some handkerchiefs in the market
for sale.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler exhibited some speci-
mens of silk, of home manufacture; also some
samples that he had received from Italy, the
former having been reeled at his house, by
Mrs. Candon, of Logan. He had one hun-
dred and twenty-five skeins, which weighed
fifteen pounds. It took four pounds of cocoons
to make one pound of silk. He had received
a communication from the firm of Rinalds
Kuntzel and Co , Florence, Italy, stating that
our sample of silk was first-class, the only
fault being it was a little too coarse, having
from ten to twelve threads, theirs only having
four threads, that being their standard. How-
ever it would sell very well at eleven or twelve
dollars a pound, and as far as they could learn,
by persons visiting Italy, also by newspaper
reports, we have the best climate for silk rais-
ing they know of. What was most needed was
to influence land owners to plant mulberry
trees. It would prove a gold mine to them
and the community. They offered to buy an-
nually from fifty to one hundred tho[-]sand
pounds of cocoons. Mr. P. A. Schettler [-]aid
he was in favor of purchasing the very [-]est
machinery that could be got. He had received
two ounces of silk-worm eggs of the Tuscan
race which is considered the best in Europe.
The cocoons are not so large, but the silk is of
a better quality. He had seventeen ounces of
eggs to dispose of at four dollars an ounce; al-
so some in small quantities that he would give
to children and to new beginners.
	Mrs. Barney exhibited some specimens of


silk raised and reeled by Mrs. A. K. Dunyon,
which were excellent.
	Mr. Joseph Heywood, of Gunnison, Sanpete,
enquired where to get trees and what the price
of them.
	Mr. Schettler said he had some young trees
to dispose of from three to four years old from
the seed, at ten cents a tree.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in March, at this place at 3 p. m.
						R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.
	THE MANUFACTURE of silk in this Territory
is being brought already to a degree of perfec-
tion in some specialities. The silk laces, veils,
handkerchiefs and scarfs, are a credit to the
department, and the rich, elegant fringe which
was manufactured for the ornamenting of the
St. George Temple, from the very elements of
Utah, is a tangible proof of the improvement
which is being made in sericulture. To those
who desire the future welfare of Utah this busi-
ness should be interesting and every exertion
should be made to introduce mulberry trees
wherever there is land which can be made
available to the growth of them. The leaves
can be gathered by children, and the cocoons
raised by persons who are not able to perform
arduous labor. In regard to buying machinery,
first of all there should be a supply of the
silk on hand, otherwise the machinery would
be a dead weight on the owyer's hands until
it could be secured. The planting of the
mulberry trees and the raising of cocoons comes
first and the machinery will be a secondary
consideration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		141


[Column 1]
				OBITUARY.

	DOLLY ANNIS, one of the faithful mothers
in Israel, died on the first instant, in the Six-
teenth Ward of this city of general debility
and old age. She was born June 10, 1800; be-
ing seventy six years, seven months, and
twenty-two days old at the time of her death.
Sister Annis was born in Vermont. Her
maiden name was Green. When the Gospel
of Jesus Christ first found her, she was living
with her first husband whose name was Dan-
iels, and who was the father of her children.
She received and embraced the truth, but Mr.
Daniels rejected it. In consequence of this
difference of opinion, Sister Annis suffered
much persecution; and finally for the sake of
gathering with the Saints, she left her home,
companion and children, subsequently mar-
ried Brother Annis who soon after died a
faithful member of the church. Afterwards
working her own way and paying her own ex-
penses; she came to Utah to finish her days
among the people she loved. She was a warm
friend, a true philanthropist and an energetic
advocate of the principles of truth.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The columns of your interesting paper, de-
voted to the encouragement of all that is good
and estimable in woman character and life,
seems to be a place most suitable for the names
of those who have been successful in leaving
behind them an unexceptionable life's record.
There are a few who live in this world in a
manner to secure the esteem and respect of all
who know them, and whose memory it is a
pleasure to cherish. Such was the life of her
whose name appears in this communication,
Mrs. Ann Cash Richards. She was the daugh-
ter of Joseph and Mary Hayward Jones, and
was born May 29, 1803, in Tilley, Shropshire,
England. She embraced the Gospel in Eng-
land in the early days of its history there, and
in 1832 took charge of the house department
in connection with the Liverpool Office, where

[Column 2]
she had an opportunity for many years to be-
come acquainted with and entertain as hostess,
many of the Elders who visited and labored in
that mission, hundreds of whom remember
the name of "Sister Cash" as one who always
took pleasure in doing what she could to ad-
minister to them the comforts of life, and en-
courage them in their labors. In 1835 she
came to this city, gathering with the saints
and leaving children and relatives behind,
where by her uniform goodness of life, without
aspirations, or aims for distinction in this world,
she secured the esteem of all who knew her.
	It was always her pleasure to do for and en-
courage the Relief Societies and all other or-
ganizations for the good and prosperity of the
saints, especially the poor among them.
	For years she was afflicted with an asthmat-
ic cough, especially during the winter months,
which of late proved too severe for her, and
the dropsy terminated her life, Jan. 30, 1877,
having experienced, especially in her early
history many trying changes and vicissitudes
incident to a life of more than seventy-three
years; and has passed away with every assur-
ance which integrity and faithfulness to the
Gospel and its ordinances can give to a worthy
sister in Christ.
	She was followed to her last resting place by
a goodly number of those true sisters and
friends whom she had esteemed in life, and to
whom she was grateful in the hour of death,
which hour to her had no sting, nor shall the
grave have victory.
								COM.
—"Millennial Star," please copy.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			SODA SPRINGS Jan, 24. 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to add my testimony to others who
have written on the subject, and say that the
very course the sisters are taking is an initiatory
step toward the UNITED ORDER of the king-
dom of God. The words of our beloved Presi-
dent Brigham Young to the brethren and sis-
ters are the words of life to every one who
will obey the same; the united efforts and
faith of all that take an active part in the pub-
lic enterprises which have been organized
with a view of consolidating the influences and
and exertions of this people, will be a blessing
in helping to establish upon a firm foundation
the Kingdom of God, which will "break in
pieces all other kingdoms," and in spreading
light and truth throughout the earth.
	I pray the Lord to bless the sisters in their
efforts to move forward in every good word and
work. I enjoy reading the EXPONENT very
much and desire it may prosper.
	Your humble Servant,
						LUDWIG SUHRKE
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	When a faithful sister passes away from
this earth I am glad to see it noticed in 
your paper.  I feel that the EXPONENT be-
longs especially to the sisters of Utah.
They are the ones that love to peruse its
contents, and the ones that desire to sup-
port and keep it in our midst.  I often
think what great blessings as editors you
are securing.  You are working for a pur-
pose, filling a great and glorious mission in
spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ in this 
last dispensation.
	Who can read the EXPONENT and not 
feel that such sentiments are dictated by
honest hearts full of integrity to their God
and not ashamed of being Latter-day


Saints. I am pleased to read the commu-
nications of the Elders. The letter to 
Aunt Em is interesting and contains truths
which sooner or later will be realized. The
poetry by the same writer, expresses the
sentiments of every faithful saint when
away from their mountain home and the
society of the Saints.
	There has been a cloud of sickness and
sorrow over our city for about three months
but it has nearly passed. Those who have
not been called to mourn the loss of friends
by the terrible disease (Small Pox) have
felt sorrow in hearing of the sickness and
death of many of our good brethren and
sisters. It has carried sadness to many
hearts because we could not visit and help
them in their hour of need, and mingle our
tears with those that mourned. The last
taken away from us by that disease was
Sister Delecta Monch, and baby, wife of
Prof. Monch. She was a school-teacher,
and by her kindness and aimiability won
the love and respect of the old and the
young as well as the teachers who were as-
sociated with her. Her life seemed to hold
a bright prospect for the future but for
some wise purpose she was taken from our
midst. Every saint and friend deeply sym-
pathizes with the husband, parents and
family in their great loss which is undoubt-
edly her gain. She has paid the debt all
must pay, it is only a question of time, and
matters not when if we are only prepared.
	A. M. FRODSHAM
Ogden, Jan. 25th, 1877.


R. S. REPORT.

THREE MILE CREEK, BOX ELDER CO.,
	Jan. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give a brief report of
our Society here. We were organized into
a branch of the Relief Society, July 29th,
1875, by sisters Eliza Snow, Harriet Snow
and Pres. A. O. Perry, as follows:
	Mrs. Jane Perry, President,
	"	Mary Young,
	"	Mary Perry,	Counselor ,
	"	Rebecca Thorn, Sec'y,
	"	Lucy Woodard, Assistant,
	Miss Francessa Campkin, Treasurer.
	There are about fifty members enrolled;
we meet every two weeks and enjoy a good 
degree of the Spirit of the Lord; our meet-
ings are well attended considering the
scattered condition of our little settlement.
Our Society is in a flourishing condition and
we can truly say, our Association has been
the means of uniting us together as a band
of sisters. Although we have not much
means we are blest with health and willing
to perform our part in every good work
requested by our president. I write also to
inform you of our success in tne grain
movement, we have nearly one hundred
bushels of wheat now on hand and intend
adding to it as fast as our limited means
will allow. Through the courtesy of Bro.
Richard Thorn we received storage for the
winter. We desire by the help of our
Father in Heaven to exert our energies to
secure all the grain we can, and be one
with our sisters in the organization in car-
rying out all the counsels of our leaders.
	Hoping for the success of your valuable
paper, we remain as ever your sisters.
	REBECCA THORN, Sec'y.


THERE is nothing which binds heart to
heart so speedily as trust and being trusted.


142		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

			MILL CREEK, Feb. 1st, 1877.
EDITOR EXOONENT:
	We as a branch of the Grain Department 
desire to unite our efforts in gathering and
storing grain. Mrs. Mary McAlister has
been elected Chairman, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Carlisle Secretary, and as we are widely
scattered a visiting committee of eight wo-
men have been appointed. We formed this
Grain Committee December 19th 1876, and
now have on hand nearly one hundred
bushels of wheat and thirteen dollars to
buy more with. The Young Ladies, Re-
trenchment Association donated eleven dol-
lars. Considering everything we think we
have made a good beginning, and pray that
we may continue to persevere. Bishop
Miller has given us great encouragement
and good counsel; he gives us a bin in his
mill for to store our grain securely, and we
can't help but go forward and do our duty,
when we have the approbation and help of
our Bishop, and having a testimony within
us that we are doing the will of our Heav-
enly Father
	Praying for the prosperity of the Grain
Department and the unity of every good
brother and sister in this Latter-day work,
I remain yours etc.
			ELIZABETH CARLISLE, Sec'y.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
THE DECLINE OF THE DRAMA.

	It is sad for both votary and patron of the
dramatic art to note the decadence from its
primeval design, and subsequent zenith of
glory and utility, to the perverted and semi-
lethargic condition in which it is to-day.
	Could the shade of the Athenian Thespis
or the Roman Rascius appear upon the
scene and view the unappy fate of the plan
and its perfected beauty, or, could the spir-
its of the immortal Garrick, Kemble, Kean,
or others of like fame, contemplate the
degradation of the profession which the
brilliant efforts of their genius elevated to
a co-equal station with the proudest in the 
"temple of art", would they not raise a sol-
emn protest against the base perversion,
and hurl the thunders of their righteous
indignation on the heads of all who are im-
plicated in this retrogression?
	But who are to blame—what is the cause
or causes which have dragged down and
reduced nearly to the level of a vice, an
art which, carried out from the primitive
idea, would instruct, elevate, and tend to
refine all who patronized it? On this last
point, all who are acquainted with the his-
tory of the drama are united; but, alas, how
easily is the good made evil! How often
things purposed for beneficial effect, through
ignorance and mismanagemeut produce the
exact reverse!
	The press throughont the country con-
tains inquiries, speculations and commenta-
ries on the unprecedented lax condition of
our theatricals, each paper assigning var-
ious reasons for the present stagnation. To
one interested in the prosperity of the
mimic stage, these matters are of serious
import, and demand consideration. Though
many arguments are adduced, and different
opinions expressed, yet from the unsatisfac-
tory bearing of the causes severally alleged,
we cannot acquiesce in any of the general
verdicts. It may be, as some assert, that at-
tractions are insufficient to suit the public
taste, or it may be as others urge that thea-
tre rates are too high for the present string-

[Column 2]

ency in monetary matters, but these are
unsubstantial reasons for the decline of a
profession; for, why, under the same cir-
cumstance as the last, do not our school sys-
tems collapse, our litigation diminish, and
our journals go into general bankruptcy?
The design of the drama was to become as
beneficial to humanity as any of these. An
instructor, a school, where nature seeing
nature could study itself, and yet the others
flourish in respectability; the teacher, the
lawyer and the editor are admitted into the
best society, while the drama is neglected
and degraded, and the actor shunned as
though his presence were a disgrace; the
former professions in public estimation,
stand as necessary to the life of a commu-
nity, while the latter is sunken to the grade
of an amusement.
	Viewing the case in this light, which we
feel to be a correct one, the query is sug-
gested: Is not the decline of the drama due
solely to the perverted tastes of a degener-
ate age? It was not so some hundred and 
more years ago when Garrick was the s'ar
and Shakespeare the theme, nor when
John P. Kemble wore the laurel and men
admired genius and perfected art. Those
were the times when "Sensational Dramas"
and "Black Crook" extravaganzas were
comparatively unknown. Then the dis-
play of feminine semi-nakedness and the
follies and vulgarisms of brainless fops,
were hissed from the stage, and denounced
by the press; and it remained for a later
and more civilized (?) age to foster these
indecencies, and worship at the shrine of
the golden calf they erected.
	Now, the greatest attraction for the mor-
al (?) modest (?) and fastidious public, in-
stead of the drama proper, and artists of
true merit, is a blaze of calcium light and
a display of female nudity. The most suc-
cessful managers and actors are those who
pander to this depraved public appetite,
and are upheld and patronized while the
others are slighted and forsaken. Can you
wonder at the decline of the drama? Can
you wonder at the stigma which rests upon
it, and the lethargy which binds it down?
Managers, actors, and public, can you not
see what is needed?—REFORM—genuine
and thorough. It is folly to bemoan a re-
sult whose cause is perpetuated by your-
selves; dig up the roots and the branches
will die. Unite your efforts to quell this
secession—this counterfeit which shocks all
decency, degrades public morals, and
wrecks the general welfare of the profess-
ion. Let it not be said that Edwin Booth
lost his labors and fortune in a futile at-
tempt to check this downward tendency;
emulate his noble example, persevere in
the good cause, and the drama will yet rise
in name and position and free itself from
the stain which now marks its character
affd defeats the fame and prosperity of its
ambitious devotees.
	"THESPIS."
Lancaster, Pa. Jan. 14, 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Through your columns I desire to say a
few words to your readers, and more espe-
cially to the young, for upon them will rest
a large portion of the Latter-day work. I
pray that a portion of the Holy Spirit may
accompany my words that they may reach
the hearts of those who shall read them.
	Young people, be obedient to your teach-
ers and leaders, and I pray the Lord to
bless you with wisdom and power to bear
a faithful and earnest testimony to the


cause you have espoused, before all people
whenever you may have opportunity given
you; and our heavenly Father will bless
you with more wisdom and knowledge, to
live your holy religion purely before God;
and angels will rejoice over you. I am a
mother, and I feel to offer a prayer for the
rising generation, and that they may more
fully realize the importance of the days in
which we are living. Great events are
about to transpire, for which it is necessary
we become prepared, temporally and spirit-
ually. My dear young friends, let us strive
to live so that we may be prepared to be-
hold our Redeemer with joy, for the time
of His coming draws near. O what man-
ner of a people ought we to be in name and
in works? Truly Latter-day Saints.
	JEMINA BROWN.
S. L. City, 20th Ward.


EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I think it is our duty as a band of sisters
to respond to all the calls that are made up-
on us. We have joined these associations
for the sisters, and I think we ought to obey
and respect the rules. We have now en-
tered upon a New Year, and I think we
ought to begin with the year and be deter-
mined to live better and attend all our
meetings.
	Now if we believe that by depriving
ourselves of the foolish and vain pleasures
of this life that we will gain the blessings
that are in store for the righteous, let us
begin at once, no matter if it does seem
hard; we do not live in this world for the
pleasures of this life, but to prepare our-
selves for a better and higher sphere, for
according to our works we will be reward-
ed. When God gives a commandment to
His people He expects it to be obeyed, and
if we do not obey it we cannot expect Him
to bless us, for He has not promised to do
so; but He says, "Inasmuch as my people
do my will and keep my commandments I
will pour out my blessings upon them."
Then it is our duty to live for them; it is
no use to ask His blessings unless we do
right, for we cannot serve two masters;
then let us choose the right one, and strict-
ly obey all the commandments He gives us
through His servants. God does not come
Himself when He wishes to give His peo-
ple a commandment, but He has chosen a
mouthpiece upon this earth, to whom He
reveals His mind and will concerning His
purposes. And we should prepare ourselves
to receive and obey all the commandments
that are given. Then if given to us through
the Prophet that it is not prudent to dance
round dances, surely we can live better
without them than to lose our blessings.
Then let us be determined that we will give
them up, and not say we will have our
pleasure and enjoyment, if it deprives us
of our salvation.
	From your sister in the Covenant,
				FLORILLA BURGESS.
	Goshen, Utah.


MY little Leon is now four and one-
half years old. One day at the table he
finished picking the third spare-rib bone,
and laying them all in a row, he looked up
in my face and said, "Ma, those bones are
read and accepted."		E.S.B.


TIME is a species of wealth which it is
impossible for us to hoard, but which we
may spend to good advantage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		143


AN INDICTMENT OF THE
			PREACHERS.

	In the light of the recent action of the
Newark Presbytery, we give an extract
from a European letter by Jane Grey Swiss-
helm.
	American preachers are wont to make a
European tour for their bronchittis, and
then come home and lecture us women on
the respect and gratitude we owe them on
account of our privileges!
	"It is Christianity," they tell us, "that
has lifted us out of slavery," and set us at
their feet to learn wisdom! Now, I beg
leave to call attention of the reverend gen-
tlemen to the fact that "Christianity had
been introduced into every country in
Europe by women, and was firmly estab-
lished in every one, before a woman sent
Columbus to look after America. That
every government in Europe, except Tur-
key, is a Christian government to-day, that
Saxony has God and Christ and Martin
Luther in her constitution; that her court
is Catholic Christian and her established
church and people Protestant Christian;
and the whole kettle-of-fish of European
governments are Christian. and that the
women are beasts of burden, or family
property prisoned in iron safes for the hon-
or and benefit of their owners, present or
prospective.
	The father guards the honor of his
daughter as an important part of his pos-
session, and sells it and her in the matri-
monial market to the highest bidder. Her
purchaser installs her stewardess of his
house, gives her the keys, and flogs her
whenever he thinks she needs a flogging.
	She is not supposed to have and inherent
virtue which would preserve her purity
without watching or the true inwardness of
fathers and husbands to teach her that the
male Christians in public places are very
dangerous animals.
	Women are not allowed to sing praises in
the houses of worship belonging to that sys-
tem of religion, which has lifted us all to
such sublime heighths of unquestioned
confidential intercourse with the shepherd
of their souls, in Catholic and Protestant
confessionals.
	These blessed Christians, in this Chris-
tian land, with its Christian government,
hitch women up with dogs and donkeys,
and set them to drawing loads through city
streets, and plows in country fields; and we
are called upon to reverence the clergy for
what Christianity has done for us, while
they exert all their influence to enforce on
the women of to-day the laws laid down for
Corinthian slaves two thousand years ago!
	No set of men on the face of God's green
earth are exerting themselves against Wo-
man's claim for common justice as are the
clergy of the United States and England—
the Christian clergy, the self-appointed
guardian of women's souls, and the sneer-
ing opponents of their right to freedom of
conscience and just compensation for their
labor.—Woman's Journal.


THE WOMEN'S WORK.

	The following copy of a letter addressed
by the President of the Centennial Board
of Finance to Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, Presi-
dent of the Centennial Executive Commit-
tee, has been received by Mrs. E. R. Snow.
Thinking it might be interesting for our
readers to know something of the apprecia-
tion of woman's work abroad, we publish
it in full.


"Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, President of the
		Women's Centennial Executive Com-
		mittee:
	"MY DEAR MADAM.—The Centennial
Board of Finance assigned to the Secretary
the duty of replying to your letter of the
29th ult., and at the same time requested
me to express to you and your associates
their feelings in contemplation of the close
of your labors in connection with the In-
ternational Exhibition. This duty I gladly
comply with.
	"This work which has been accomplishedhas placed the workers by which it was
wrought very close to the hearts of the
American people. They recognize in it a
true expression of their gratitude for the
past, their progress in the century, and the
hopes for the future which animate them in
this the Centennial year; and whilst they
never can know the individuals to whom
they are indebted for the fruits of all their
sacrifices, their perseverance and their la-
bor, there is now, and I believe will ever
continue to be, a grateful appreciation uni-
versally felt towards every actor in the
memorial scenes which have so recently
closed upon us.
	"As the Centennial Board of Finance
are very conscious of the efficient aid, and
of the steady, perservering zealous devotion
of your associates, and especially of your-
self, to the great cause in which you have
been co-workers with them, it gives me
very great pleasure to express in their be-
half their grateful acknowledgements for
all that you have done, and to assure you
that whilst in common with yourself public
approval is their only coveted reward, they
will ever bear in living remembrance all
your works, which having been entered in
a season of great darkness, were persevered
in through much adversity, until they cul-
minated in a blaze of glory. Allow me to
convey from the Centennial Board of Fi-
nance to you and your fellow laborers their
kindly greeting and their best wishes for
your prosperity and happiness.
	"Very sincerely,
		JOHN WELSH,
			President.
"Philadelphia, Dec. 18, 1876.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WANTED, the receipt which is given
when a gentleman pays his respects.
	LONG range practice—Twenty years' ex-
perience as a cook.
	HARD to beat—Boiled eggs.
	IF a lady can't weep for her lost hus-
band, she can at least wear watered silks.
	GOSSIP.—A child thus defines gossip: "Its
when nobody don't do nothing, and some-
body goes and tells of it."
	SCIENCE Made Easy.—Friend, to scien-
tific authority: "Doctor, how is a man to tell a
mushroom from a toadstool?" Scientific
authority: "By eating it. If you live it is
a mushroom; if you die; it is a toadstool."
	A WELL-known disciple of Izaak Walton
sent a telegram from Edinburgh to the inn-
keeper at a favorite resort of anglers, re-
questing the usual preparations to be made
for him, in the shape of dinner, bed, etc.
On reaching his destination next day he
was surprised to find no expectation of his
arrival, and nothing ready as he had desir-
ed. "Did you not get my message?" he
asked in astonishment. "Ou ay, we got a
letter; but, as it wasna in your ain hand-
writing, we paid no attention to it."


FLOWERS.

	Every human soul has germs of some
flowers within, and they would open if they
could only find sunshine and free air to ex-
pand in.
	BEAUTY is admired, talent adored, but
virtue is a woman's crown. With it the
poor are rich; without it, the rich are poor.
It walks through life upright, and never
hides its head for high or low.
	IT cannot be too often repeated that luxu-
ries not necessities, bring ruin. We are
ruined, not by what we really want but by
what we think we do; therefore never go
abroad in search of your wants, if they are
really wants, they will come home in search
of you, for he who buys what he does not
want, will soon want what he cannot buy
	IN a world like the present, one of the
grandest occupations is that of giving con-
dolence. We ought all of us to study this
holy science of imparting comfort to the
troubled. There are many who could look
around upon some of their best friends who
wish them well, and are very intelligent
and yet to be able to say to them in days of
trouble, "miserable comforters are ye all."


BOBERT FULTON.

	The collection of "Gates papers" in the
Historical Society was due to Robert Ful-
ton, who next to his steam project was an
amateur in history, and was among the
early patrons of this institution. There are
very few persons now living who remember
Robert Fulton, for he died sixty-one years
ago; but those who knew him could not soon
forget his tall form, which was more than
six feet high, his expansive brow covered
with curls of dark brown hair, and his large
and piercing eyes. His mouth was beauti-
ful and suggested eloquence. Upon the
whole, his appearance was peculiarly strik-
ing, and well worthy of the position he holds
in history. That his life was one of inces-
sant conflict scarcely need be said. He was
called "crazy Fulton," not only by the
masses, but also by men who pretended to
scientific skill. The by-word of that day
was the "Marine Smoke-jack and Fulton's
Folly." The place where the "folly" was
constructed was near Corlear's Hook, and
here the inventor endured some of his se-
verest conflicts. At last, on the 7th of Sep-
tember, 1807, he saw the Clermont start on
her trip to Albany. At that time it was
the only steamboat in existence. Fulton
was then more than forty-two years old,
and had but little more than seven years to
live. It was a peried of intense activity,
both in improving his invention and de-
fending his patent. To a lawsuit connected
with the latter his death was immediately
due. Coming from Burlington, New Jer-
sey, to this city, he was obliged to cross the
Hudson river in a row boat, and was an
hour making the trip. He became thor-
oughly chilled, and died of rapid consump-
tion in his fiftieth year. Dr. Hosack, who
attended him, exclaimed to a friend as he
returned home at midnight: "Fulton is dy-
ing. His severe cold amid the ice in cross-
ing the river has brought on inflammation
and glassites. He extended to me his gen-
erous hand, grasping mine closely, but he
could no longer speak."Fulton's body was
buried in the Livingstone vault in Trinity
Churchyard. His portrait was painted by a
daughter of his friend Thomas Addis Em-
met, and is considered a tolerable likeness.
—New York paper.


144		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PICTURES.

	There is a silent influence in pictures
which many of us do not understand. In
childhood, even these speechless monitors,
looking down from the wall, speak to the
heart with an eloquent meaning that often
moulds its future destiny. In manhood
they bear witness to our growth and pro-
gress, and indicate the changes of the fleet-
ing years. In old age they awaken mem-
ory, bring up the scenes and faces of by-
gone times, and link our hearts in tender-
ness to the shadows of the past.
	But in childhood their inf[-]uence is more
impressive than at any other stage of life,
because the mind is then yielding and sus-
ceptible to its surroundings; the earliest
years being passed at home, and our infant
observation bounded by the four walls of a
nursery, the pictures, if there, are among
the first subjects of delightful contempla-
tion. Imitation, as well as curiosity, is a
fundamental element in human nature, it
follows the other almost invariably. In
this relation the human mind led by inquiry
derives the rudiments for theory before re-
ducing to practice; and thus the ideal
serves the actual.
	Pictures are generally representations of
life, either fanciful or practical, and often,
if attractive, exercise more influence on an
unsophisticated mind than the anxious
teachings of a mother or guardian. In-
stances have been known where they have
marked out and determined the after life
of children whose early years were passed
in the midst of them. We give one—a
father and mother could not divine the rea-
son why both their boys should have a de-
sire to go to sea and follow the hard and
dangerous vocation of a sailor for a livli-
hood. They had not taught nor encour-
aged the idea as they could remember, be-
ing both strenuously opposed to it, but
nothing would avail to prevent the execu-
tion of the plan. One day the father was
sitting, lost in thought when his gaze
chanced to rest on two old pictures on the
wall, one a ship in full sail, the other a na-
val combat. All at once the truth flash-
ed upon his mind; these were what had in-
spired his sons with a taste for the mari-
ner's life. Subsequently the fact was ad-
mitted by the two.
	There is true philosophy to sustain this
incident, let the skeptical say what they
choose, and the philosopher who said, "Tell
me your associates and I'll tell you what
you are," evidently understood what he
was saying.
	In your homes everything should be pleas-
ant, sensible and substantial; not only the
pictures, books and furniture, but the liv-
iug occupants, for all are pictures which are
deeply impressed on the minds of children.
These pictures never perish, for our actions
words and faces remain there as witnesses
to manhood, as remembrances to age, and
as pictures whose light remains forever.
	Then let us be careful to direct the minds
of the young in a right direction, by plac-
ing pictures before them worthy of copy
and emulation; that when time shall devel-
op their latent talents and energy, they in
turn may become exemplary of our race
and bright pictures for the study of those
who follow in their footsteps.
								IAGO.


MANY seek solace for their troubles in
the gay French capital. They think the
best plaster for their wounds is the plaster
of Paris.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Marble Cake.—Light part—White sugar, 1½
cups; butter, ½ cup; sweet milk, ½ cup; soda, ½
teaspoonful; cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful; whites
four eggs; flour, 2 ½ cups, beat the eggs and sugar
of together; mix the cream of tartar with the flour,
and dissolve the soda in the milk.
	To dress a Loin of Mutton like Venison.—Skin
and bone a leg of mutton and lay it into a stew-
pan, with a pint of water, a large onion, stuck
with a dozen cloves, and a spoonful of vinegar;
add, when it boils, a few sprigs of thyme and
parsley, and some salt and pepper; let it stew
gently three hours, and turn often. Make some
gravy of the bones, and add it at intervals to the
mutton when a r[-]quired.


[Column 1]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Coopet's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's JAMAICA GINGER,
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from
native Ore, Door Mats, Toy Table and
	Spool Stands, Sole Leather and
		other Trunks, Gents' Fine Shirts
		and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
		Table Salt, Band Boxes
			and Dixie Cotton.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 2]DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
