VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1877.		No. 23.


For the EXPONENT.
			MENTORIAN.

	You've pass'd the hey-day term of life
	With all its day-dreams, love and strife.
	You've tested to your heart's content
	All they can offer—all they've lent,
	And find that all that they have made
	A hollow reed, on which you've played;
	And though at times a syren strain
	Has issued lulling heart and brain,
	Have you not woke from out that dream
	To wish to plunge in Lethe's stream?
	That all the past might by-gones be-
	And leave you once again all free
	To start, and take another road,
	That should conduct to an abode,
	Where love, and joy, and peace abound
	And wisdom consecrates the ground:
	You stand and take a calm look back
	Upon the glittering troubled track,
	That you have almost wildly pass'd,
	As in a mirror it is glass'd;
	It had such magic charm for you,
	You almost hate to say adieu;
	But yet "the still small voice within"
	Imploring whispers NOW begin!
	The half of life is still before you
	Yes—youth has not yet ceased to score you,
	Awake! arouse that soul of thine!
	Command her to "arise and shine!"
	The sanctum of your heart explore
	The Temple of your brain look o'er;
	Behold what God has done for you,
	And tremble should you prove untrue.
	He gave you talents, and a Soul
	With much thats noble to control;
	With much that's given to impart
	Instruction to the human heart;
	And to propel the expanding mind
	That truth and wisdom yearn to find;
	Are these not talents all untold,
	That in "a napkin" none must "fold?"
	You know all this—I need not tell
	You things you long have known so well;
	Then pardon, if I take my pen
	To brighten up your mental ken,
	And say in friendship, brother mine
	Arise! and make your mark in Time!
	That in the glorious future, you
	May stand among the pure and true
	Whose brilliant minds, and mighty soul
	Hereafter will this globe control;
	And let us strive that you and I
	In that bright galaxy may vie.
	My friendly rhyme I now will end
	Subscribing, H. T. King, your friend.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]

MEMORY'S MUSIC.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD

	"It haunts me still though many a year has fled
		Like some wild melody."
	Always and ever, to the pure minded and
innocent, there is a pleasure in recalling
moments fraught with joy and happiness.
The scenes and remembrances may be of a
simple nature, perhaps of green pastures
or meadows gay with buttercups and cow-
slips, where the merry calves frisked and
gamboled and we, with hearts as light as
these thoughtless animals, participated with
our companions in sports of a scarcely
more exalted phase. Such is human weak-
ness; in looking back it is invariably some
trivial thing that recalls the sweetest and
most delightful associations. A ramble by
moonlight in some charming spot, when
our hearts were the very sanctuary of pure
and innocent feelings, ere we knew the de-
ception of the world, the music of murmur-
ing water, the moonlight upon some old

[Column 2]

ruin, may have so infused its beauty into our
souls as never to be forgotten. The com-
panions of such dear, delicious hours are
usually endeared to us even though we
should be separated from them forever; and
the vision of a face many years forgotten
will come back to us sometimes with won-
derful accuracy of delineation.
	Many are the bright pictures memory
conjures up to illuminate life's pathway,
and God has given us this faculty of call-
ing to remembrance the "light of other
days" to help us to endure our lives with
better grace. Somebody loved us in the
long ago, is the consolation of many a weary
heart, and the rapture of that love still
clings to us, for true love never dies. In
days of loneliness how pleasant it is to
think, we have had friends who loved
us for ourselves, and fully estimated all our
goodness.
	These are echoes that reverberate through
our whole lives if we do not crush them
out, and come back to us again and again,
to comfort us by their silent key notes of
music, which only speak to the inmost heart.
	The voices of little children stir up the
fountains of tenderness in the aged, because
they wake old-time remembrances. Many
curious illustrations have been given of
incidents when the recollection of some epi-
sode in life has been recalled by a similar
sound or sight to that familiar in earlier
days, acting as a spell of enchantment;
showing how susceptible are our natures to
life-long impressions, or that the effects
produced by certain pleasurable emotions
can never be wholly eradicated.
	The memories of the past are the echoes
of the soul; they come to us in our day-
dreams, they float round us in our night
visions, they are clearest in their own pecu-
liar element, as for instance we recall them,
or they haunt us, when some similar spot,
act, or scene is presented. Sometimes we
feel we have brought with us almost inde-
finable echoes of our spirit-life; transient
and exquisite, yet for the moment like a ray
of mellowed sunshine thrilling us as with
a holy touch of joy. Sacred emotions these.
Something almost too sublime to be com-
prehended by mortals. They give us the
finest touches of our being here; they im-
part spiritual grace. They whisper to us of
our divine origin, in the language of the
soul. We are not mere creatures of clay of
a finite nature. These finely-drawn but in-
controvertible truths bespeak the infinite
within us.
	Matter-of-fact people, who must have
tangible things to rely upon for proofs, tell
us these are only fancies. It is a common
way of expressing a gloriously beautiful
subject, but are they not convincing proofs
of the life and love we participated in, be-
fore we tabernacled in the flesh.


DR. Johnson was famous for disregarding
public abuse. When people criticized and
answered his pamphlets, papers, etc., he
would say, "Why, now, these fellows are
only advertizing my book; it is surely better
a man should be abused than forgotten."


Out-door relief—A breath of fresh air.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	MME. BONAPARTE, who resides in Balti-
more, is now in her ninety-fourth year. She
has often expressed an ardent desire to live
until she had completed a century, and
present appearances indicate that she may.

	MISS C. A. Bassett a lady of education
and enterprise has established an Educa-
tional Bureau in Des Moines Iowa, The na-
ture of it is an educational exchange
through the mediumship of which teach-
ers may find engagements and school-offi-
cers may find teachers and Institute in-
structors.	Ex.
	MRS. Gillespie, president of the Wo-
mans Executive Committee, at a meeting
recently held in Philadelphia, said that the
entire expense of running the Woman’s
Pavilion was paid by women, and she only
regretted that they had not engaged a lady
architect to make the plan and superin-
tend the building. The expense of get-
ting up the shows at the opening and clos-
ing of the exhibition was also paid by the
ladies.—Ex.

	THE EASTERN war question still remains
unsettled, no negotiations for peace having
had any salutary effect. There are so many
conflicting reports that it is scarcely possi-
ble to form a correct idea upon the subject
at all; and at present the result is not with-
in the power of man to determine. It is
said that the relations of Russia with
America are altogether of a peaceable char-
acter. The Sultan in speaking of the Rus-
sian attitude towards Turkey is reported to
have said, “Political and financial reasons
exist demanding a termination of the pres-
ent intolerable position of uncertainty."

	JUDGING FROM the newspaper notices of
President Hayes and wife, one would be
inclined to think that a decided change in
many things would be effected by their
good but quiet example. “President Hayes
abstains from the use of all intoxicating
drinks." Then the people will assuredly
have sober decisions; and his influence
will be felt for good wherever he presides
in public, or social circles. If Mrs. Hayes
persists in dressing plainly, she will deserve
the gratitude of all good people, for her ex-
ample will in process of time make a de-
cided change in the tide of fashion, and let
us hope she will be able to settle the much-
vexed question of woman's extravagance
in dress, for the popular party.

	THE REV. Robert Collyer of Chicago, re-
cently delivered a lecture entitled “Clear
Grit.” It was in the interest of the Hos-
pital for the Cure of Chronic Diseases. One
point he said he could speak upon with au-
thority, was “that it was better to work ten
hours a day in making horseshoes, and
making good ones, than to dawdle through
the week and preach a poor sermon on Sun-
day.” He went on to summarize his ad-
dress under four heads, which he said "were
the unmistakable evidences of pure grit.”
To be able to work honestly and well; to
marry young; to raise a large family with
God’s help; and then to persevere and be
contented.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms was one
of special interest. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne told the sisters that their labors were
but just commencing; that the Conference
minutes calling upon them by the unami-
mous vote of that august assembly, to go
into the silk business, was suggestive of
the magnitude of the work before them.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said she hoped
this mission given to the women would be
taken into immediate consideration by ev-
ery one who had at heart the present and
future interest of Zion; she felt it to be a
very important one. In having it conferred
by unanimous vote of the conferense, the
sisters might expect the benefit of the faith
and prayers of this great body of people:
she alluded to the means which had been
used to start the Silk Association, and
the encouragement which had been given
to the people to interest themselves in this
industry; she said that in Brigham City
they were going to have a department in
their Co-operative store for homemade silk,
and if the sisters were energetic in this di-
rection they might all have home made
silks that would be durable. Silk culture
and its present and future success was the
principal subject before the meeting. A
beautiful silk dress pattern which was man-
ufactured from the elements of Farmington
was exhibited; the first silk dress ever
make in Utah. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne then announced to the audience
Bishop Hardy and he addressed the assem-
bly; expressed the pleasnre he felt in meet-
ing the sisters and the improvement which
had been made in many respects during
the last few years; said he had never antic-
pated seeing a silk dress manufactured with-
out machinery; the sister who made the
dress presented it as a voluntary Temple do-
nation; added that it had been purchased (by
Mrs. M. M. Barrett) and the money given to
the Temple, and that lady had given the dress
to Miss E. R. Snow, who he hoped might
by the blessing of God live to wear it out.
A Testimonial or certificate had been neatly
framed and given to Mrs. Clark as a me-
mento of respect for her labors in the silk
business. He spoke of his appreciation of
the Relief Society in his ward. Elder An-
gus M. Cannon arose and said that he had
about the same feeling in arising before
that meeting as he had twenty-two years be-
fore when he addressed a congregation of
lawyers and learned men in a hall in Hart-
ford, Conn. He spoke of his great honor
and reverence for good women; that his
best and noblest feelings had been implant-
ed by his mother; said he realized the sis-
ters had in their keeping the training of
those who were to be the future defenders not
only of this church but of the country.
Miss Snow expressed her thanks and good
feelings to be the recipient of such a gift.
Counselor E. Howard spoke upon dress, ex-
travagance, economy, and the saints living
their religion. Counselor B. W. Smith
make a few remarks upon the tannery, and
Mrs. E. S. Barney upon sericulture and the
straw-hat establishment. The meeting was
one long to be remembered by all present.

	CHERRY CREEK, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO,
					March 10th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By reading your valued paper, and see-
ing the prosperous condition of the differ-
ent Relief Societies, we thought it in order
to represent ourselves, rather than not be
represented.

[Column 2]
	We have here a Society, presided over by
Mrs. Eleanor Dudley assisted by Mrs. Eliza-
beth Chivers and Mrs. Elizabeth Hunting
as Counselors. We number in all twenty-
one members. Our district extends four or
five miles, part of which is enrolled in Ma-
lad branch. Our Temple donations have
amounted to $140.00, given by thirteen of
our members; we hold our meetings semi-
monthly, and they are well attended. A
sociable and friendly feeling prevails in our
meetings.
	Wishing all the Societies and different
enterprises prosperity, and not forgetting
our own, we remain
	Yours respectfully,
		ELEANOR DUDLEY, President,
			SARAH A. JONES, Secretary.

		ROCKVILLE, March 26th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a very prosper-
ous condition, with the following named
officers:
	Mrs. Amy H. Draper, President,
	"	Maria Smith,			} Counselors.
	"	Margaret Brundage,	}
	"	Fannie P. Slaughter, Secretary,
	"	Hannah Jennings, Treasurer.
	We have been very busy of late prepar-
ing for the brethren and sisters who are
availing themselves of the opportunity of
going into the temple to perform a work for
themselves and their dead.
	When we were called on this Southern
Mission we thought that we were unfortu-
nate indeed, but now we are beginning to
think that we have been highly favored in
being permitted to live near the Temple.
Our Society has donated some towards
building thi[-] Temple, and we are now go-
ing to donate some towards the erection of
the Sanpete Temple.
	I have noticed in the EXPONENT that a
great deal is being done and said with re-
gard to the GRAIN MOVEMENT; I have felt
highly pleased when reading of the success
of the sisters in saving and storing grain,
for I believe it to be a very important step.
We have not commenced doing anything
towards gathering grain yet, but we are be-
ginning to agitate the matter some.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT and every other good under-
taking, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
			FANNIE SLAUGHTER,
						Secretary.

	BEAR RIVER CITY, March 30th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will give you a brief report of the Re-
lief Society in this place. The Society con-
sists of eighty-nine members, and we have
our meetings semi-monthly. We are doing
our best to carry out counsel in the way of
buying wheat; we have bought over one
hundred bushels of wheat already, and we
are exerting ourselves to raise means with
which to buy more. We own $303.00 capital
stock in the Co-op Store, on which we
draw interest. We help the poor, and visit
the sick, and are trying to be more united,
and live our religion to the best of our abili-
ty. We have a good and faithful President
in Mrs. Christine Albertsen, and her Coun-
selors, Mary C. Neely and Anna Hansen,
are faithful co-workers with her; Karen
Christensen is Treasurer.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					MARY HANSEN,
							Secretary.

[Column 3]
	TOKERVILLE, KANE Co., March 2, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy president Mrs.
Elizabeth Kleinman, I address you to in-
form our co-laborers in the kingdom of God
that we are trying to honor our calling as a
Relief Society and do all in our power to
assist the needy and comfort the afflicted
either by word or deed. General good
health prevails here, with the exception of
a few bad colds, which are incidental to this
season of the year.
	We were called to part with one of our
most respected sisters last August, Mrs.
Annie Jackson; she was a dutiful member
in the Society and served as Secretary as
long as her health would permit. She was
greatly esteemed by all who knew her.
	We read the reports of the different or-
ganizations in the settlements STORING
GRAIN, but we have none to store up as
our facilities here do not admit of its pro-
duction; we depend entirely on the north-
ern part of the Territory for breadstuff.
	I am sorry to say we have no Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association organized
yet, but we live in hopes that we may have
ere long. The St. George Temple is now
finished for which we should all feel very
thankful; there are many people going forth
to receive their blessings, which fills our
hearts with joy and gratitude. Our Society
made about forty yards of carpet for the
Temple. Our financial affairs are as follows:
we have a twenty-five dollar share in the
Washington factory, and a thirty dollar
share in this Co-op Store; carpet and cush-
ions which we donated to the meeting house
valued at eight dollars and twenty-five
cents; donated to a needy family, a quilt
valued at seven dollars; to the St. George
Temple twenty-nine dollars; to the Wash-
ington factory, eight dollars and forty
cents; sundries on hand, sixty-nine dollars
and thirty cents; cash on hand, four dollars
and fifty cents.
	We have had refreshing rains lately and
the people are planting their gardens; the
trees are also in bloom.
	Praying for the prosperity of our breth-
ren and sisters in this Latter-day work, I
remain yours etc.
			SARAH SPILSBURY, Sec'y.

	SUGAR HOUSE WARD, Apr. 7, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I enclose you a brief report of a meeting
of the Relief Society held in the Society
Hall, Feb. 7th 1877, President Mrs. S. B.
Gibson presiding. After the usual exerci-
ses of singing and prayer the financial re-
port for the year 1876 was read. Amount of
donations received eighty-seven dollars
and fifty cents; We have also on hand
about fifty bushels of wheat, and a consider-
able quantity of flour which we hope to keep
adding to as long as the years of plenty
last.
	On March 23, the Sisters of the Relief So-
ciety had a social party to help in getting
means to finish their new Hall. They had
a splendid time all feeling to appreciate the
efforts of the committee to make it a suc-
cess. The proceeds of the party amounted
to forty-eight dollars and seventy-five cents.
	With kind regards I am yours
				Respectfully,
					SARAH WHEELER,
							Sec'y.


Some men are good because goodness
pays best, and some are good for nothing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	LINES SUGGESTED ON HEARING THEY
	WERE ABOUT PUBLISHING A BOOK CALL-
	ED "THE WOMEN OF MORMONDOM."
The women of Utah they are going to tell
Of their hardships, and griefs and virtues as well?
They have toiled long and nobly, have fought the good
	fght,
Against sin and Satan, and to maintain the right.
In Missouri when the saints withont mercy were driv'n
And ties that were closest in anguish were riven,
The sisters were heroines, unflinching and brave,
Though their fondest and dearest were laid in the grave.
And many a mother when the tempest was wild,
In the storm without shelter, gave birth to her child,
Like the mother of Jesus as we often have read,
Who was glad in a manger to make her poor bed.
And in this freer country where churches abound
Little pity for Latter-day Saints has Been found.
The women of Utah, yes, their lives should be told,
And placed upon record in letters of gold.
Those mothers in Israel, (some now pass'd away,)
They have borne well the burden and heat of the day,
And their names should be honor'd while time shall en-
	dure
Their reward in the future, awaiting, is sure.
Talk of heroes that fought and the victories won
The mem'ries emblazoned on tablets—in song,
They fought but for country and they won the proud day
And rose from oppression, and a tyrants dread sway.
But the women of Utah a victory will claim
That will place their rank foremost in annals of fame;
Forc'd to leave home and friends to these mountains to
	fly; 
God will watch over them, while His wrath passes by
Their deeds are on record and remember'd will be
In this world through all time, and in eternity.
But my pen it would fail, and these pages would swell
If their self-denial and worth I should tell.
The women of Utah let their names be enrolled
On the brightest escutcheons the future shall hold
And their mem'ry forever engraven shall stand
'Mong the noblest and fairest of every land. 
	C. DANIELS.
Provo Jan. 22, 1877,


A LEAF FROM A JOURNAL.

One day I searched an ancient cabinet
And found a musty book; I have it yet—
A journal of the good year'twenty-nine,
Kept by a long departed friend of mine;
And from its leaves grown brown with age,
I take a story and a single page:

	"Roses, oh Roses,
		Handing passion-red,
		Crimson warmth o'cried,
		Thus hath he said,
			'Wait, wait, I come!'

	"Violets, oh Violets,
		Guileless wonder hearts so true,
		Faithful little souls of blue,
		I whisper it to you:
			'Wait, wait, he comes!'

	"Daisies, oh Daisies,
		Snow-white things of purity,
		A little patience teach me.
		I blush to whisper thee:
			'Wait, wait, he comes!'

	"Wil!ow, oh Willow.
		Willow drooping tenderly,
		Hear me softly say to thee,
		These words, his words to me:
			'Wait love, I come!'

	"Heart, oh heart,
		Bless this dear, dear day
		That brings from far Bombay,
		These words that to thee say:
			'Wait love, I come!"

This old-time love-song beareth date
Of June, the month of roses and of fate,
The twentieth day;
	And just below, one sees
The story's end, in words like these:
"In flowery, far-away Bombay,
Died—lit June, the twentieth day."
	GEORGE H. PICARD.


A LADY asked her servant how the mus-
tard pot had become cracked. The reply,
made with all gravity, was that shc did not
know; but supposed it was owing to the
mustard being so strong.


MUSICAL AND DRAMATIC NOTES.

 The Boston Music Hall was open for its
Annual Concert Apr. 11, 1877. The enter-
tainment was quite a remarkable one in
character, and some of the most famous ar-
tists America can boast participated in it;
the programme was miscellaneous and as
Boston is the metropolis of America in mu-
sic, it will not be out of place to reprint the
bill in full, as it might be a model for other
musicals.

l. Hungarian suite, op. 16........Hofmann
			Orchestra.
2. Aria, “Cara fu solo a me,”
			Aiceste..................Gluck
		Miss Annie Louise Cary.
3. Concerto, No. 4, G-major, op. 53.
		...........................Beethoven
Mme. Annette Essipoff and orchestra.
4. Mad scene from “Hamlet,” 
		...........................A Thomas.
	Miss Clara Louise Kellogg.
5. Largo (adapted By J. Helmsberger),
		new...........................Handel
 For violin, violas, harp, great organ, and
solo violin, by Mr.S. E. Jacobson [first time
in America].
6. Aria,"O don fatale,” Don Carlos,
			.............................Verdi
		Miss Annie Louise Cary.
7. Solo piano, 'Rhapsodie Hongroise,
		No. 2................................Liszt.
	Mme. Annette Essipoff.
8. Rolero, Sicilian Vespers.........Verdi.
	Miss Clara Louise Kellogg.
9.Waltz, Autumn roses...........Strauss.
			Orchestra.
10. Duet, Quis est homo...........Rossini.
Misses C. L. Kellogg, and, A. L. Cary.
11. March and chorus, Tannhauser
		...................................Wagner.
		Orchestra and great organ. 
	We have read the reviews of this enter-
tainment in the Boston papers and publish
here some extracts:
	“Madame Essipoff was heard in the best
music which she has ever played in Bos-
ton.  *  *  The technical difficulties of the
composition were simply forgotten under
Madame Essipoff's treatment.  *  We do
not think it would be possible to find a bet-
ter interpreter than Madame Essipoff of
such a fiery product of Listz’s peculiar gen-
ius.
 “Miss Carey was in wonderful voice, and
sang Gluck’s “Cara fu solo a me” with grand
fulness of tones and appropriate gravity, of
style.” Upon being recalled she gave
Beethoven’s Arietta, “In gusta tombo,”—
“O don fatale” from Verdi’s Don Carlos.”
She also gave “Summer Evening Memor-
ies." Miss Kellogg interpreted Ophelia’s
mad scene with genuine dramatic life and
discrimination.  Miss Kellogg also display-
her vocal fluency and her exact and easy
skill as an “executante” in the Rolero from
“Sicilian Vespers.” In response to an im-
perative ENCORE she sang “The Little
Shepherdess.” Madame Essipoff politely
yet firmly declined to repeat any of her
numbers though repeatedly called back to
the stage.
 ANNA E. Dickinson made her debut the
second of April at the Eagle Theatre, New
York.
 MME, Ristori gave a performance at the
Apollo Theatre in Rome recently, for the,
benefit of the Working Men’s Co-operative
Society. The piece was “Elizabetta d' In-
ghilterra,” and the great actress was ably
seconded by the Morelli Company, which
came expressly from Siena for the repre-
sentation.
 MME. Adelina Patti has appeared with
the greatest success in “Semiamide," a part
the lady has not heretofore sustained in
Europe. 
 AT Liszt's recent concert at Vienna, the
city of Vienna presented him with the
large gold “Salvator medal.” The Viennese
critics dwell on the piano-forte performances
of Dr. Liszt as equal to those of his best pe-
riod. The instrument was covered with
crowns and flowers. He accompanied Mme.
Gomperz-Bettelheim in the Scotch airs of
Beethoven.


ABOUT THE "LITERATI."

	SCRIBNER & Co. announce for the com-
ing season, a monograph upon Charlotte
Bronte including letters by her which have
never before appeared in book form.
	MRS. Macguid will shortly publish a ser-
ies of papers to be designated "Among the
Yorkshire Abbeys:" they will appear in one
of the English magazines.
	How literary men and women write their
books and study is always a matter of inter-
est: here is a sketch of some noted authors.
Mr. Trollope asserts that he does all his
writing before breakfast. Mr. Tom Taylor
that all his literary work was performed be-
fore official hours in the morning. H. J.
Byron says he only writes two hours in a
day, but he takes credit for thinking a
great deal. Mr. Hepworth Dixon literally
writes from morning to night. George El-
liot is at her desk from six to seven hours a
day.Mrs.Henry Wood writes every day until
dinner time. Farjeon, on being asked "how
many hours a day he wrote," replied "all
the time" which is asserted to be very
nearly true. The late Lord Lytton said
that in two hours daily great things in lit-
erature might be done. Scott never on his
working days wrote less than four or five
hours, and he always sat down to his desk
primed. There was no affectation of lei-
sure about the authors of Pendennis and
David Copperfield, aud Belzac would lock
himself up for weeks together and wrote
hour after hour at a stretch. Miss Braddon
has been in the habit of writing from ten
to sixteen hours a day, a couple of years
ago her labor was so incessant that it turned
her brain and she had to lay down her pen
for many months in the middle of a novel.
		Ex.
	HERBERT Spencer's opinion of George
Eliot is that she is "the greatest woman
that ever lived."
	"THE Two Americas," is the title of a
new book by Major Sir Rose Lambert Price
Bart. The critics denounce the book as an-
ti-republican in the strongest sense, and
abounding in slang which is decidly unbe-
coming to the British aristocracy. Here is
a sample of his sentiments. "To universal
suffrage all the existing ills in all existing
republics, can be distinctly traced."


Good nature is the best feature in the finest
face. Wit may win admiration, judgment
command respect, knowledge attention,
beauty inflame the heart with love, but
good nature has a more powerful effect, it
adds a thousand attractions to the charms
of beauty, and gives an air of beneficence
to the homliest face.


180		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,			} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each [-]quare, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East st[-]eets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m, every day except Sunday.
 Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1877.


[Column 1]
		REVERIES OF A WOMAN.

					"These can lie,
	Flatter and swear, deprave, inform,
	Smile and betray: make guilty men, then beg
	Their forfeit lives, to get the livings; cut
	Men's throats with whisperings; sell to gaping suitors
	The empty smoke that flies about a palace."

	Perchance some one reads this title and
apostrophizes thus: O, some love tale long past,
recalled by a winter's fire to amuse the fancy.
You never were mere mistaken, dear reader.
Women's reveries are often prophetic as well
as their dreams, and there is more in them
than some people give them credit for know-
ing. But to come back to the subject. "The
times are out of joint" so it would seem, as
much now as when Shakespeare lived (and
Shakespeare lives to-day mere truly than many
living men) for men rave madly of blood and
ruin and desolation, without counting the
cost. It would be wiser if THEIR reveries
were more sober. Assuredly they must be
dreaming. When men concoct schemes of
ruin and desolation they should consider
the fearful consequences.
	It is not a trifling matter to seek to disfran-
chise a vast body of people, whose worst fault
is that they have been prospered and become a
power in the land; who have wrested the desert
lands from their barrenness, and by assiduous
toil have overcome almost superhuman difficul-
ties. Driven out from civilization, the Latter-
day Saints crossed the sandy plains amidst
savages and wild beasts, women and children
too, encountering every peril with the courage
and heroism of those Pilgrim Fathers whose
descendants many of them were, and for what?
That they might seek out an abiding place,
where, free from molestation of their enemies,
they might dwell in peace and gather around
them their families, and teach their children
the laws of God, and the commandments of
heaven as revealed to them. These are their
offences. For these things they are now ar-
raigned by self-styled judges, who condemn
them to the severest penalties of the law, and
beseech Congress with ten thousand lies in
their mouths to wipe out this Mormon people,
if it must be done at the point of the bayonet.
	Gentlemen, if such you be, if you have hu-
man blood in your veins, by all that you hold
sacred, stop, before you go further. Why do
you seek the lives of this people? What would
you with them? Have you not come here and
found homes? Have you any injustice to com-
plain of at the hands of this people, whom you
so foully abuse and misrepresent? Why are
you here? Was there not room for you in oth-
er states and territories? Was there not scope
for your marvelous imaginations? If this peo-
ple are so low, so miserable, so degraded, why

[Column 2]
did you come? They were happy without you;
this city was not defiled with the many curses
which infest it now, ere you came. This peo-
ple were abundantly capable of maintaining
themselves and opening up continually new
facilities and industries; their homes were the
abodes of peace and coutentment; their chil-
dren were taught to reverence God and not pro-
fane His holy name. How is it to-day, under
the influence of the outside element, of the
civilization of the nineteenth century? Very
different indeed.
	The Mormons left their homes in Ohio, in
Missouri, in Illinois; they bid adieu to their
friends, and for their religion traversed the
desert wilds, giving up all they had heretofore
held dear in the world, They planted towns
and villages on their way, that have since
grown and flourished and been converted into
homes for thousands of people. They came to
this barren, desolate country, where no white
man had ever lived, came here with their little
helpless ones, and commenced anew. Women
and children will not hold their peace and see
their rights again jeopardized. The voice of
woman will be lifted against you who are seek-
ing their destruction. Let them alone, leave
them to themselves. Far better would it be for
you to hide your heads in shame, and seek in
all humility to make reparations for the wrongs
already done this people, than to seek to stir
up strife and hatred against them. What class
of men are ye that are thus howling and rag-
ing? "Verily the heathen rage and the people
imagine a vain thing." Are ye men who fear
God, and dare to talk of ruin and blood to wo-
men and innocent children.
	"Vengeance is mine saith the Lord," have
you forgotten these words, or do you not ac-
knowledge the words of God? Remember that
in this day and age it is so ordained, that wo-
men speak and represent their own cause. The
women of Utah are abundantly able to repre-
sent the cause they have espoused, and they
will, and who shall hinder them? The Mor-
mon women have been misrepresented, and
have suffered reproach and calumnies without
having the means to contradict them; but now,
thanks to the liberality of the age as regards
woman, she is permitted to have a voice in her
own affairs and represent her own cause. The
Mormon women are the ones who are engaged
in solving some of the most intricate social and
moral problems, and it would be wise if the
world could have the patience to wait and see
the result.
	The Mormon women trust in God, they have
implicit faith in His promises; they are sincere
and earnest in living practical lives, they are
capable of great self-sacrifice; they believe Gcd
has spoken, and, true to the divinity of their
natures, they are ready to honor Him and
obey His commandments.
	How mistaken the world are, when they rep-
resent Mormon women in bondage to men.
There is no greater freedom than the Gospel
gives to woman. And it is this that makes
Mormon women conscious of their power.
They have suffered and become strong; expe-
rience has matured them, and given them a
higher order of attainment than a mere men-
tal education. Have not the enemies of this
people caused suffering enough to women and
children? Have not the hardships already en-
dured in times past, the recital of which has
often brought tears from the eyes of strangers,
given you sufficient evidence that you cannot
eradicate from this people the principles for
which they have endured so much? Let them
alone; if they are wrong, time will eventually
show them the error; if they are right, how
vain are all your efforts. The charity which

[Column 3]
the Saviour taught would not admit of this
bitter spirit of animosity.
	God is for the weak: He defends the innocent.
He will not suffer those who trust in Him to
be dismayed; besides He has set up His king-
dom never to be thrown down. The women
are the majority in the land; they will not let
their claims to justice and the rights of citizen-
ship be ruthlesly set aside. God is for woman: he
ever has been; Jesus revealed Himself to woman
after His resurrection. Woman in this age has
suffered much, and, like unto Sarah, some have
given to God in sacrifice their heart's best offer-
ing, and God will remember them. Cease to per-
secute the saints of God, for if you do not God
will come out from His hiding-place and will
vex the nations. You think the Mormons an
insignificant body of people; they are mighty
in spirit, and their women are united in one
grand solid phalanx to help build up Zion, to
sustain their own institutions, educational and
social, and wo be to him who dares to lift his
hand against Zion.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A SPECIAL TRAIN left the city at 6 a. m.,
Friday, April 27th, with a large party of breth-
ren and sisters, to meet President Brigham
Young and company at York. They returned
at half-past one p.m., the party seem univer-
sally to be in good health and excellent spirits.
The Latter-day Saints and the many friends of
President Brigham Young will be glad to know
he arrived at home safe and well. The Presi-
dent has preached several times on the way.
The party spent Sunday at Richfield, where
they held meetings. Presidents Brigham
Young, John W. Young, D. H. Wells, Elders
J. F. Wells and Charles Burton addressed the
congregation. The company arrived at Manti on
Tuesday last. The same afternoon the brethren
visited the hill where it is designed to erect a
Temple and held meeting in the evening. Pre-
sident D. H. Wells and Elders J. F. Wells ad-
dressed the people. Wednesday morning held
meeting again, President John W. Young and
Elder George Gibbs were the speakers. At
noon they repaired to the Temple site, laid off
the ground and dedicated it, President Brigham
Young offered the dedicatory prayer and turn-
ed over the first sod; the company then drove
on as far as Moroni, where they passed the
night, thence direct for home.
	There has been a vast amount of preaching
done during the journey by the First Presidency
the Twelve Apostles and by the young Elders
in the interest of the Y. M. M. I. Association.
The sisters who went south have also spoken in
the Relief Societies in many of the settlements.
There is the same good feeling expressed by
each and every one in referring to the Temple
and the Conference. And to the beloved Pres-
ident of this people and his party we can
heartily say, Welcome, Welcome Home.
	MUSTARD.—The best quality of mustard can
be raised in Utah, it has been satisfactorily test-
ed. The Woman's Commission House would
gladly recommend a good article of homemade
mustard. How absurd for Latter-day Saints to
import thousands of pounds of this article
when a better quality can be manufactured for
home consumption. Brethren and sisters,
raise some mustard and let it be put into the
stores for sale.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre was opened three
nights last week, Miss Adelaide Neilson, cele-
brated for her beauty and dramatic art, per-
formed Juliet in "Romeo and Juliet," Rosa-
lind in "As you like it," and Julia in "The


[Column 1]

Hunchback." Miss Neilson received the
greatest applause from the audiences here, and
her beauty and many attractions win admira-
tion Eastand West. She played with feeling,
her voice is melodious, her manner quiet and
unaffected, her dress magnificent.
	WE RECEIVED through the courtesy of a
friend the first number, issued April 1, of a
new paper established by women. It is called
"Woman's Words" and is to be issued month-
ly in Philadelphia: price $1.00 per year; Mrs.
Juan Lewis, publisher, 625 Walnut Street. It
is designed to promote the interest of women
throughout the United States, without regard
to sect or party: and upon such liberal ground
it cannot fail to meet with hearty appreciation
from those who desire the promotion of uni-
versal good. We find this number contains
much excellent matter, and many items of in-
terest relative to woman's progression in litera-
ture, science and art. It does not affect the
extreme on the woman's rights question, but a
proper and fitting medium upon all the points
discussed in its columns.
	ANNUAL MEETING of the R. A. in the First
Ward, S. L. City. This meeting convened at
the residence of Mrs. Mary W. Musser, April
4, 1877. The financial report of the Society
during three years was read by Mrs. Alice
Fletcher, Treasurer. This report alone, clearly
shows the energy, perseverance and executive
ability of the officers and members, and that
the object of their ambition is a laudable one,
viz., to assist in improving themselves and
others, and help to establish the kingdom of
God upon the earth.
	The meeting was presided over by President
Mrs. Sarah Graham, who has been earnest and
energetic in her endeavors to assist the young
ladies in this good work. Elder J. Booth and
A. Steel both spoke very encouragingly to the
Society, and assured them that a decided im-
provement was manifest in many ways. Mrs.
Marion Chase, President of the Relief Society
of that ward, addressed them in a manner cal-
culated to impress them with the greatness of
the work in which they had enlisted. Allud-
ed to the temporal as well as spiritual matters
which were pending. Mrs. Steel, Schnitar
and Brown and several of the young sisters
expressed themselves on the principles of the
Gospel, the great work now being performed
by women, the necessity of union and the de-
sire they had to do all in their power towards
sustaining home industries and aiding in every
good undertaking. Mrs. Sarah Graham made
some excellent remarks in regard to the oppor-
tunities afforded the young ladies for improve-
ment, expressed great pleasure in being asso-
ciated with them and meeting together and
helping each other. Some business was tran-
sacted, a vote of thank given to the Secretary,
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, and a uni-
versal good feeling pervaded the meeting.
	THE SPECIAL mission given to the Relief So-
cieties by the vote of the Conference, viz.
sericulture, should receive the earliest careful
attention; certainly the first movement to be
made is the arranging to have mulberry trees
grown, sufficient to supply food for large quan-
tities, of worms. It is to be hoped that the
sisters will take hold of this branch of indus-
try with the energy and perseverance they
have proven themselves capable of, when called
upon to undertake anything requiring faith,
prayer and executive ability. Do not be
afraid you will have too much to do; overwork
is not from so much being done, but it is
crowding off until the necessity comes, and
then hurrying; method in the performance of
work is the antidote for this sort of thing.

[Column 2]

When people learn to systematize their labor,
and all concerned in any department will
agree, when there are no idlers who leave their
share of work for another to perform, the aggre-
gate proportion that suffer from over-work will
be greatly reduced. "Hurry and High Press-
ure" are evils to be avoided. If the sisters will
concentrate their efforts (and no doubt they
will) they can accomplish all that can be de-
sired in this direction; for it will not only be a
source of profit, and bring wealth into the
community, but it will be one of the best ave-
nues for true charity, that which gives labor
to the poor, and makes them self-sustaining,
instead of non-producers. Mr. Jennings has,
we understand, donated $200 towards buying
machinery. There has already been consider-
able success achieved through the untiring
perseverance of some of the sisters, and when
the united exertions of thousands are brought
to bear in this direction no doubt the results
will be abundantly satisfactory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		181


THE OBJECT OF YOUNG LADIES'
			ASSOCIATIONS.

	It is a difficult matter to have some under-
stand the nature of our Retrenchment Asso-
ciations. A young lady remarked to me the
other day that she did not see what benefit it
was, for those who attended the meetings did
not retrench.
	Let us reflect a few moments. Is there noth-
ing we need to retrench except our dress? Let
us examine our minds, morals and principles,
our daily life, the object of our being here upon
the ea[-]th, and see which needs our attention
most.
	God says in a revelation, given Dec. 27, 1832,
37th paragraph, page 106, Doctrine and Cove-
nants:  "Therefore cease from all your light
speeches; from loud laughter; from all your
lustful desires; from all your pride and light-
mindedness, and from all your wicked doings.
		See that you love one another.
Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to
find fault one with another; cease to sleep
longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early,
that ye may not be weary; arise early, that
your minds may be invigorated; and above all
things, clothe yourelves with the bonds of
charity as with a mantle, which is the bond of
perfectness and peace; pray always, that ye
may not faint until I come."
	It is our duty and privilege to have pure and
intelligent minds. It is necessary then to learn
of the things of God, to store our minds with
useful knowledge, to think and reflect what is
His will concerning us. Are we aiding our
fellow creatures? Are we cultivating purity,
charity, benevolence and those virtues which
are essential to our happiness and which will
fit us for the high and responsible positions we
may be called to fill? Are we sincere and val-
iant in doing the will of God? Can we see any
good resulting from our actions and words?
Are we seeking to live daily the covenants we
have made? Do we love one another? Are
we retrenching from our light-mindedness and
light speeches? Are we seeking to know of
the will of the Lord concerning us? Do we
seek the society of those who are pure and up-
right? Do we daily retrench from what we
may consider small evils? If we have not
gained this perfectness we certainly are, in
these societies, seeking to gain it. I would say
to those who do not attend our meetings, and
who make such remarks, that we wish to pro-
gress step by step; to gain knowledge, be char-
itable, cultivate amiable dispositions, intelli-
gent, pure minds, good morals and principles,
be practical and obedient and improve the


time given us here. These are the robes we
are seeking to invest ourselves in-these are 
the noble objects of our Retrenchment Asso-
ciations.
							M. H.


STORING GRAIN.

WELLSVILLE, CACHE Co., Feb. 18 '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 We wish to inform you that the sisters
in Wellsville feel to respond to the call,
of President Young in regard to storing up
wheat.  Our worthy Bishop, Wm. H.
Maughan with several of the brethren were
present at our last monthly meeting; and
our Bishop gave us some excellent instruc-
tions in regard to STORING GRAIN, as well
other good and wholesome counsel in try-
ing to be self-sustaining and the implic-
it obedience the Lord requirs of us.  Oth-
ers of the brethren encouraged us to go on
in doing good; our president, Ellen Whit-
on exhorted the sisters to be one with the
Priesthood in all things that we may be co-
workers together.  Counselor Margaret
Woodward and several others bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of the gospel, and
manifested a sincere desire to be united in
all good works.  We have commenced stor-
ing up wheat since our last meeting, and
esteem it a great blessing and privilege to
have a prophet to lead us, that we may es-
cape, by listening to counsel, the impending
calamities that will befall the disobedient.
Success to the Exponent, we peruse its
pages with great interest.
              LUCY HASLAM, Sec'y.
        ELIZABETH MAUGHAN, Treas.


THOUGHTS ABOUT RETRENCHMENT.

	These are a few of my thoughts, sisters.
We were organized into societies to re-
trench from everything that is evil; not
only in extravagance of dress, but every
thing that is not of the Lord. We are coun-
seled not to backbite nor speak evil of each
other or our neighbors; and we are not to 
slander or use bad language, whether in
company or at home, and always and every-
where be modest, gentle, kind and polite,
and treat everybody with due respect both
old and young. Girls, I think prayer is one
of the greatest blessings we can enjoy; by
faith and prayer the sick are healed; and I
believe the plan of healing as taught by the
gospel is better than any other way that has
been introduced; and girls, if any of you
are in trouble first call on the Lord and He
will hear and answer your intercession.
	My young sisters let us now go forth and 
help to build up the kingdom of God that
we may come forth in the morning of the
First Resurrection, among the Saviors on
Mount Zion.
				CLARA E. SNEDAKER.
	Mill Creek, Apr. 4. 1877.


THE Empress of Japan visited the shools,
factories, and public offices at Kioto recent-
ly. Great interest was taken in the visits,
this being the first occasion of any Japanese
Empress taking part in public proceedings.
Eastward the star of empire takes its way,
perhaps, for woman."—Ex.
	From the above and many similar occur-
ences, which have and are transpiring from
time to time, it is easy to perceive there is 
a new era opening for woman; and that she
is gradually partaking of the spirit and 
feeling which permeates throughout the 
length and breadth of the land.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	PARADISE, CACHE CO., Apr. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Your valuable paper comes regularly to
hand and is a most welcome visitor. For
women I consider it the most useful and
interesting paper published, and think it
should be in the household of every Latter-
day Saint for the wives, mothers and daugh-
ters to read and profit by; and if the male
members read it also it, cannot fail to in-
struct them, for its teachings are the pure
principles of the gospel written by inspira-
tion of the spirit of God. When I reflect
upon the perfect order of the Kingdom of
God, the beauty, harmony and unity of its
various organizations, extending even to
the women, and to the young people of
both sexes, uniting and binding all togeth-
er in one interest, that of both temporal
and spiritual salvation. I often wonder
what more evidence any reflecting mind
can require to substantiate the divine ori-
gin of this work. I take great pleasure in
reading the several reports of the Relief
Societies, in learning of the good which
they have done and are doing, but most es-
pecially was I impressed with reading the
article on STORING GRAIN, republished
from No. 10, not having read it before, as I
did not take the EXPONENT at that time
which was my loss; I fully endorse the in-
instructions given, and shall endeavor to 
carry them out to the best of my ability
as soon as circumstances will permit.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain your sister in the gospel,
	LYDIA B. REMINGTON,
		Prest. R. Society.

	TOOELE, TOOELE Co., March 15, 1877
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	As spring has come we are very busy
putting in the grain and we hope the Lord
will bless us with an abundant harvest, so
that we can fill our bins for a future day.
Brother Micklejohn has kindly given us the
use of one of his wheat bins until we can
get one of our own. The sisters have no-
bly and liberally donated; we have at pres-
ent, over one hundred bushels of wheat,
and with the help of our Heavenly
Father, we will still keep storing it up
for a day to come; and we feel that through
His blessings upon our labors the coming
season, we will be able to more than double
the amount that we now have on hand. We
held a silk meeting on the 10th of the
month, to take into consideration the plant-
ing out of mulberry trees, and to encour-
age the culture of silk for we know that it
will lay the foundation for a good work in
the future, and we know that it is our duty
to do all that lays in our power to help
build up the kingdom.
	I know that this is the true church and
kingdom of God, and that it will never be
thrown down or given to another people;
it will stand forever. It came not from
man nor from the will of man, but from
God our eternal Father, it is His cause and
His work and we must not think that the 
name of a saint is going to save us, for we
will all be judged by the deeds done in the
body. When I think of this it causes my
heart to rejoice and fills me with gratitude
to my Heavenly Father; and I pray that
we may be kept faithful to the end of our
days.
	Success to the EXPONENT and to all good
enterprises.
	A. M. TATE.

[Column 2]

	PROVO, APRIL 11, 1877.
EDITOR EPXONENT:
	It becomes my sad duty to acquaint your
readers that death has taken from our ranks
one of the noblest women that have graced
our society with their presence, in the
death of Mary Ann (Yeager) Whipple of
this city: deceased was born Nov. 1, 1822,
in Philadelphia Penn., received the gospel
June, 1844, in Philadelphia, emigrated to
Utah in 1850, was married the same year
to Edson Whipple, they assisted in the set-
tlement of Iron County with Prest. George
A. Smith's Company in 1852; after helping
to establish the new settlement there, they
removed to Provo where she resided filling
the position of first Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Societyof the Second Ward
until her death which occurred March 26th
1877 from incipient Small Pox and erysipi-
las, together with consequent nervous ex-
citement in attending her husband's son
Heber, through his illness. Sister Whip-
ple was one of the heroines of the small af-
fairs of life, who pass unnoticed, but the
self sacrifice and devotion to duty, made
her truly beloved and respected by all who
were acquainted with her virtues, her
death under the attending circumstances of
the infectious disease, precluded the paying
of respect by the usual gathering for funer-
al services, * but on the night appointed
for the removal of her remains to their si-
lent resting place, by the side of her hus-
band's son, there were many wakeful ears,
upon which the noise of the wheels of the 
hearse fell with mournful sound, and many
tears fell at the sad and dreary parting with
one so esteemed and worthy of the love of
those her friends who mourned her loss, but
yet comforted with the knowledge that the
Father of all, will not overlook this our sis-
ter when he makes up His jewels, but will
recompense her for all her self sacrafice and
toil during her probation here.
	Deceased leaves four children to mourn
her loss, one, William M. Whipple, is assist-
ing in the settlement of Arizona.
	Respectfully,
	M. WRIDE, Sec.
		Second Ward R. S.
	The City authorities with their board
of health, together with our city Marshal,
J. W. Turner, are entitled to the thanks
and commendations of our citizens for their
prompt and decisive action in keeping the
disease from spreading further among our
community.

	KANOSH, MILLARD Co.,
		April 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	On the 20th of last month we were visit-
ed by some of the sisters who were on their
way to St. George, and we had a very in-
teresting meeting, which was open to all,
and there was a good attendance.
	The meeting was called to order by the
President, Mrs. Adelia Kimball, and after
the usual exercises Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the assembly; she spoke of the
Relief Society Organization in Nauvoo;
gave us the order of its arrangement and
said that it was organized for the benefit of
the poor, and those that required aid. Said
the Releif Societies should at all times be
willing to administer to the wants of those
who were suffering and required comfort
and sympathy, but be sure that sympathy
was given in the proper way. Be sure and 
have the Spirit of God at all times, and
then counsel would be given wisely. En-
treated the sisters to refrain from speaking
evil of each other, to be careful how they

[Column 3]

talk before their children, as their minds
are young and they remember the teachings
of their mothers; to cultivate a spirit of
kindness and forgiveness. She spoke of 
the EXPONENT and hoped the sisters would
encourage the taking of it, as it was good,
wholesome reading. Hoped the sisters
would not speak against the principle of
plural marriage, as those in it could scarce-
ly realize the blessings they are in posses-
sion of, and they knew nothing of the out-
sidworld, if they did they would not 
suffer themselves to talk against it. Spoke
of the necessity of becoming self-sustain-
ing, and entreated her sisters in every
way possible to sustain and manufacture all
they could. In regard to the silk culture,
it was now time to plant out the cuttings of
mulberries; showed some silk specimens
produced in the north. Spoke of the pure-
ness of our silk in compaaison to that in-
termixed with other trash, which was
manufactured abroad. Said we all had the
art and capacity to make ourselves self-sus-
taining and a source of wealth to other
countries; hoped the people would take an
interest in the silk culture; spoke of the 
expense President Young had incurred in
assisting to start this branch of home indus-
try, and thought the sisters should take an
interest in it. Spoke on the Grain Move-
ment, and of obedience. She also made
some remarks on the Woman's Book now
in the press, which was written by the
man who wrote the "Life of Brigham
Young;" hoped the sisters would patronize
it. Spoke to the young boys on temper-
ance, exhorting them to abstain from to-
bacco and liquor, and to aim high, cultivate
their minds, and if they would remain
faithful could attain to greater excellence
and power eventually than Queen Victoria's
children. She represented the advantages
arising to the young girls from the Re-
trenchment Organizations, and that all
should endeavor to carry out the counsel of
the servants of God.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards said she always had
a testimony to bear, and if we lived up to 
the principles taught us we would always
have something good to say. She thought
outside of the Gospel there was no pleasure.
Spoke upon faith in cases of sickness, and
said the Saints should never be without
consecrated oil; told them not to run after
doctors, but to exercise their faith; spoke
of the good things that had been said dur-
ing the day, and added that if we could
only remember them we would be more apt
to do our duty.
	Mrs. Young then spoke of the Woman's
Commission Store in Salt Lake City, said
the home industry was represented there;
invited the sisters to visit it, it was OUR
store—the Sisters of Zion's store—and hoped
the sisters would help the President of the 
Kanosh Relief Society.
	Mrs. Marian Pratt made a few very in-
teresting remarks in conslusion.
	We had a splendid time and a good spirit
prevailed. Our Society is improving and 
all the sisters seem anxious to do their duty.
With regard to the Grain Movement, the 
sisters have truly done what they could;
those who had no wheat put in molasses
and corn and flour and peaches, and some
has already been exchanged for wheat. By
this means we hope to get in a considerable
amount of grain. We are always pleased
to read so many good reports in the EXPO-
NENT, and especially with regard to the
Grain Movement. The sisters in the Re-
lief Societies have really manifested an
earnest zeal, which does them great credit.
We are having quite an early spring in this
part of the Territory; everything seems


forward; the peach trees are in full bloom
and if the frosts only keep off, there will be
a great quantity of fruit.
 Praying the Lord will bless all the efforts
of His faithful saints, I remain,
Your sister in the gospel of peace,
                              A, PAXTON,
                              Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		183


[Column 1]
			MOUND FORT, March, 8th 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The Mound Fort Relief Society was or-
ganized with twenty-six members, on the
29th of January, 1874, by Miss E. R. Snow,
assisted by Mrs. Zina D. Young, of Salt
Lake City, and Mrs. Jane S. Richards of
Ogden. The Society now numbers thirty-
seven.
	We hold semi-monthly meetings which,
considering our scattered condition, are
well attended. The sisters feel well, take
an interest in all matters of a public and 
general nature, which tend to the develop-
ment of good, rejoice in talking to each
other on the principles of the gospel, and 
delight in devising means and laboring to
assist the poor, and to build up the kingdom
of God.
	Our Financial Report up to January 29,
1877, shows the following:
Receipts in cash, merchandise, and
	sundry articles.............................. $87.27
Disbursements.....................................   62.59
On hand................  ..............................    24.68
	Towards purchasing silk machinery sev-
eral sisters have subscribed, in the aggre-
gate $7.00, and they intend to make up
their respective amounts to $5.00 shares.
	The EXPONENT is taken by quite a num-
ber of our Society, and read with great in-
terest. Ever praying the Lord to bless
you in your labors, we remain
		Your sisters in the Gospel
		Susan Moore, President,
		Mary Farr,		} Counselors.
		Annie Taylor,	}
		Annie D. Taylor, Secretary,
		Mary C. Barker, Treasurer.

		BOUNTIFUL, March 31, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is now some time since you heard from
us so I thought a few lines would not be out
of place. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young, E. S. Barney, and Presindia Kim-
ball, visited us last fall; they spoke on the
truths of the Gospel and home manufacture;
showed the necessity of sustaining all
branches of home industry so that we may
become a self-sustaining people, and when
Babylon falls, we may not be left without
resources. They brought a good spirit in
in our midst, since then our meetings have
kept on increasing, and the spirit of God
has been with us; we have been greatly
blessed in many ways; we have been able
to put the roof on our Relief Society Hall,
and have also got the flooring laid, so that
we can have the use of it. We are endeav-
oring to carry out President Young's coun-
sel, by STORING GRAIN; the sisters seem to
have the spirit of their mission, and have
freely responded to the call made of them.
We are also interested in the silk culture
and hope to see a great many trees set out
this spring, and some silk worms raised;
we are having a ribbon loom made which
will soon be ready for use, hoping that it 
will be an inducement to the sisters to raise
the silk.
	I wish to say a word in favor of the 
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association.
They have a faithful president in Mrs. Su-
san Grant, and hold their meetings every

[Column 2]
two weeks. They are now editing a paper
called the Young Ladies Companion, which
is both instructive and interesting; they 
also read good selections when they assem-
ble together, and most of them seem to
take great interest in this Latter-day work,
and are faithful in attending their meet-
ings. 
		Yours &c.,
			MARY E. CARTER, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the evening of Tuesday, March 20th,
a surprise birthday party was tendered Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, President of the Santa-
quin and First President of the Spring
Lake Relief Societies and the teacher of 
our precinct school,—by the misses of her
school. A number of her friends were in-
vited and all who participated seemed to 
enjoy themselves. She was the recipient
of several presents.
	The Relief Society here, under the pres-
idency of Mrs. Elizabeth Broadbent is 
steadily growing and all the sisters seem to
take a lively interest in helping to make
the Society a blessing. We have not been
able yet to lay up much GRAIN, but expect
the present year to make a good start in
this direction.
							D. E. B.
	Spring Lake, March 21st, 1877.


SUPERFLUOUS MEN.
	I claim no originality for my caption.  It
was suggested, of course, by Mrs. Liver-
more's "Superfluous Women," but aside
from the qualifying adjective, her "Super-
fluous Women" and my "Superfluous Men"
have nothing in common.
 The world would be the loser if those su-
perfluous women, mostly earnest, helpful
workers in the quiet walks of life, should
suddenly drop out of it, while the men, I
have in mind, are superfluous not on ac-
count of their number, but their character,
they are superfluous in the sense that they
are useless, a hindrance rather than a help
to society and the world would be better oft
without them.
 1. Of these I will mention first the loaf-
ers.  This is a large class comprising many
grades from the tramp to the genteel loafer
who belongs to a club and smokes the best
Havannas, but they all have the same gen-
eral characteristics.  They are lazy, they
have no visible means of support and like
the man who, being brought before the Po-
lice Court and interrogated as to his busi-
ness, replied that his wife was a dress-mak-
er, a large number are dependent on hard-
working, self-sacrificing wives, mothers and
sisters. They twirl their canes and their
mustaches they gossip, they flirt, they ex-
pectorate, they stand on the street corners,
they frequent drinking saloons, and all
places of high and low resort, they gamble,
they bet, they talk politics, they vote (oh
yes early and often), but their one distin-
guishing characteristic is, their aversion to
any kind of honest industry.  According
to all rules of political economy this large
class of non-producers are entirely superflu-
ous.  They add nothing to the wealth or
well-being of the nation but stand outside
all its great needs and interests.
 2.  Habitual liquor drinkers and confirmed
drunkards.  While there is life there is
hope is doubtless true of drunkards as of
invalids, but it seems to require almost a
miracle to eradicate the appetite for strong
drink when once firmly established.  Think
of the demoralizing influence of this loath-
some mass of humanity, the misery of
wives and families, the poverty, the desti
tution, the crime, the little children continu-
ally brought into being by these wretched
fathers to inherit their morbid appetites
and diseased constitutions!
 3.  Closely allied to these are the licen-
tious, the debauchees, the moral lepers of
community, whose touch is pollution whose
breath is pestilential and who, besides their
every day pernicious influence are entail-
ing upon future generations the horrible
results of their vicious lives.
 If the first class mentioned are superflu-
ous these are far worse.  The first may be
compared to barnacles on the ship of state
—the last two are leeches drawing the life-
blood from the social body and poisoning
the whole circulation; taken together, they
are the drags and dregs of our civilization.
Could they all be suddenly blotted out of
existence by a series of discriminating
earthquakes or accidents, what an incubus
would be removed from society how would
the atmosphere be purified, and progress
and reform make giant strides towards a
millennial age!
	4.Again, there is a multitude of blatant
pot-house politicians, demagogues and of-
fice-seekers, filibusters and the like who
are a superfluity in the body politic.  Could
we be rid of them also, we should speedily
have a united and prosperous people, an
unexceptionable civil service, a model Re-
public and a modern Utopia with all the
modern improvements including Impartial
Suffrage!
					A. E. DICKENSON. 
Woman’s Journal.


ALFRED TENNYSON.

			Alfred Tennyson is to-day the
monarch, the sovereign of English verse.

	It began a new era in English verse when
Alfred came caroling out of Lincolnshire.
and since [-]e has devoted his life exclu-
sively to his calling. Having once discov-
ered the divine gift in his wallet he has
never neglected or slighted his charge.
Tennyson as a poet adds industry to inspir-
ation. Not running to publishers with
quickly created verses, he leaves them out
until he has given them the virtue of the
fullest posssible excellence. His motto has
ever been "Perfection or Silence."
	With some writers poetry is an employ-
ment, with Tennyson it is an existence.
Tennyson's knowledge is extensive and
great. In science he keeps fully abreast of
the times; he is a master of philosophy as
well as poesy; and in botany he is almost
without a peer. His knowledge is exact.
As well as Huxley he is the very genius of
verification. It is Tennyson's custom af-
ter writing a poem, to have it put into type,
carefully corrected and then put away for
years, until the time comes when the au-
thor sees fit to have it published. His
egotism has often been condemned but it is
magnificent. There is nothing small or
mean about it. He is always altering his
verses, but ever for the better. Willis
once said in that habitually felicitous man-
ner of his, that a literary reputation could
only be built up, like the walls of Jerusa-
lem, with a trowel in one hand to plaster
in friends, and a sword in the other to
smite down foes. But Tennyson has been
as a rule, supremely scornful and regardless
of all his critics.—"The Pulpit of the Day."


"EXPERIENCE" says Jean Paul Ritcher,
"is the best schoolmaster, but the school-fees
are somewhat heavy."


184		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SCRIPTORIAL DRAMA.

				SELECTED.

	The scriptorial drama of "Joseph and his
Brethren," says the "Northern Echo," has 
been performed in the hall of the Mechan-
ics' Institute, Darlington, before a large and
appreciative audience, by an amateur com-
pany of Primative Methodists. The scrip-
torial narative has been divided into nine
scenes, which were gone through with
much spirit by the performers, who were
all dressed in character. Pharaoh's throne,
and crown, Joseph's coat of many colours,
Bejamin's sack with the king's cup, to-
gether with the necessary Oriental cos-
tumees, were all represented with remark-
able fidelity. At intervals, between the
scenes, appropriate pieces of music were
rendered with much vigor by the brethren,
who, whether singing or acting, entered
heart and soul into their respective roles.
The representation was received with much
favor, and it will shortly be repeated.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	IT is said that the United States Weather
Bureau is ahead of any in the world in the
accuracy of its forecasts.

	ANOTHER cure running race with that of
blue glass, is now doing wonderful work
in France. It is termed the metallotherapy
and electric homoepathy: it consists of the
application of metallic plates or cylinders—
gold, copper, or iron. It is stated some
very remarkable cures of paralysis have
been affected.

	Scientists assert that a system of tele-
graphy originated long since in Africa
among the negroes; it has been in opera-
tion from time immemorial on the west
coast of Africa in Cameroons county. The
instrument is called the "illeembic," and
through sounds produced upon striking it,
the natives converse across miles of Terri-
tory with ease and fluency as if standing
face to face, the noises constituting a com-
plete language, as intelligible to the opera-
tor as speech. The method is telephonic
and the signals are read by sound and not 
sight.

	THE great engineer of the Suez, M. De
Lesseps, made a calculation in regard to
turning the great Desert of Sahara into a
sea, a manufactured ocean. The French
marines discussed the matter, and consider-
able excitement was caused by it. Time,
however, has elicited a cooler calculation,
and Prof. Maury (who is, we believe, con-
sidered an authority on such questions)
says it "would not impoverish the seas
proper, no more than a man is impoverished
by a dollar dropped into the contribution
box." Science waits the "denouement."

	SCRIBNER'S Monthly describes a new
form of gas stove, designed to give warm
fresh air to a room, and provide for getting
rid of the products of combustion by means
of the chimney. It consists of two upright
cylinders, enclosed one within the other;
the outer cylinder is open at the bottom,
and is connected by means of a pipe with
the chimney. The inner cylinder is con-
nected at the bottom with a fresh air box or
pipe, and takes air from out-of-doors, and is
open at the top. The gas is burned in the
outer cylinder, and serves to heat both the
outer walls and the inner cylinder, through
which air is drawn from out of-doors, and
sent warmed into the room."


PEN AND SCISSORS.

 DIOGENES on being asked,  "Of which
beast is the biting the most dangerous?"
answered,  "If you mean wild beasts, 'tis
the slanderer; if tame, the flatterer."
	"LET every man" said Sydney Smith,
"be occupied, and occupied in the high-
st employment of which his nature is
capable, and die with the consciousness that
he has done his best."  If the highest em-
ployment is not to be found in our daily av-
ocations, let us seek it in our leisure.
 THE affection which shrinks from pub-
licity, seeks to be invisible, and avoids cer-
emony, is more true and deep than that
which finds its solace in that outward dis-
play which invites the comment of the
world at large.


[Column 1]
			A CARD.

	A rumor is being current that we are using a New
York brand on the articles we manufacture, to have
them sell in this market. We wish to state that it is
not so. We use no other than our own brand, and rely
on the purity and quality of our articles to commend
them to the public.
						R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Salt Lake City, U.T.
PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
	or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
		mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
		Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
