VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1876.		No. 2.


TRUE FRIENDSHIP

True friendship is the diamond of the mind
The Jewel that enriches all that find.
Deep in the heart, transparent and so fair,
The best within us shines reflected there.
Not always do we know its priceless worth
When first we find it 'mid the dross of earth.
Search 'neath the surface—polish it, and lo!
The hidden gem sends back the answering glow.
If gold can buy it, 'tis not worth the name—
True friendship rests upon no sordid claim.
A friendship doubted is a friendship lost—
Guard well the jewel, at whatever cost.
For of all the gifts the gods may to us send,
Methinks the dearest is a loving friend.
											H. P.


AT EVENING.

How softly fall the evening shadows pale,
	Golden and purple sunsets blend and fade:
Night robes earth quietly with mantling veil,
	And peace and rest the gentle hour pervade.
Great nature soothing with her potent pow'r,
	Breathes to the "world-worn heart" her sympathy;
And 'mid the tranquil of such spell-bound hour
	The mem'ries of the past steal tenderly.
Athwart the scene the moon with golden trail,
	As erst, with pitying glance and mellow'd light,
Sweeps through the empty space with steady sail,
	And floods with beauty the enchanted night.
It is the hour for sweet and tender thought,
	And whisperings of the life that is to be
And Faith and Trust with holy impulse fraught,
	Speak to the soul in nature's poetry.
Unconscious of ourselves we yield to sleep
	And bright-robed beings round our couches stray,
In sacred stillness holy vigils keep,
	And night assumes the sceptre of her sway.
											EMILE.
June 11th, 1876.
					E.B. Wells


[Column 1]
					For the Exponent.
		THE TRUE MOTHER.

	The TRUE mother is a type in minature
of her own Great Father. It may appear a
bold assertion but when we realize her
character as it has been exhibited under all
the phases, circumstances, tests and trials,
it will be seen that the assertion is truth,
allowing that there must be an immense
disparity. The developed life of the moth-
er has never been traced upon any page, or
laid bare to any human eye, it is the "un-
written philosophy" of this sublunary state
of existence. No doubt it IS traced in all
its Divinity, in all its sublime endurance,
its self-abnegation, its eternal love, beauty,
devotion, yes, and in all its agonies—often
its crucifixion of the heart and brain upon
an immortal tablet; there, no doubt is traced
"the Martyrdom of Maternity." But all
mortal martyrdom has its encompassing
joys, its glories, and its honor. So is the
mother rewarded. Her love is her pro-
pelling power and her exceeding great re-
ward—it is the moving principle of every
thought and action, nothing can destroy it.
Cold neglect, harsh treatment, non-appreci-
ation, disobedience, ingratitude; these
wound, bruise, break, but cannot erase it.
Misfortune may befall her child, it may be-
come depraved and disgraced; all others
may despise and forsake, but there is ever
one whose heart is aching with its load of
woe and agony, whose tears are falling,
whose knees are bending, and whose heart
is sending up prayers that must be heard
even within the "Inner Temple of the King

[Column 2]
of the Universe;" whose arms cling stronger
even amid the ruins of her once cherished
hopes, her soaring ambition for the upward
progress of that being who is indeed "bone
of her bone and flesh of her flesh," and
whose spirit even is twin with hers in their
mysterious relationship! Note her noise-
less unsleeping watchfulness—yes that
which none but an Omniscent eye can weigh
and measure, her care to provide for every
want in infancy and childhood; to minister
to every necessity, feeding the body with
wholesome food, and mind with mental
sustenance, its heart and brain with love,
strength and endurance, day by day and
year by year; and when the trial of reproof
comes how she mourns in her inmost soul,
what violence does she not inflict upon her
own feelings—nothing but strong princi-
ple enables her to set aside her tender love,
and take the place of judge and inflictor;
but she dare not pass over an offense, which,
if indulged may create a growing power,
that may enroll her child as the coil of a
serpent and poison even the springs of life,
like the destroying Upas! Here comes the
trial, like her Savior, she goes away and
weeps, and prays for strength to do her
duty, that self-reproach may never sting
her. The child knows nothing of her sor-
row, the wringing of her heart, probably
thinks her harsh, unjust, unkind, almost
feels for the time to dislike her; but the
TRUE mother rises in the dignity of mater-
nity, and persists in her judicious sover-
eignty. Under the control and govern-
ment of SUCH a mother, law merges into
Order; peace and love are the Elements of
her kingdom, and she is the Planet Star of
that Orbit. Her children grow up under
her sweet influence, they go out into the
world, and carry it always with them, and
when in after life they organize homes for
themselves, it is still there, for it is woven
into the very woof of their life, it becomes
a part of their system; the children of such
a mother. "Rise up and call her blessed, her
husband also, and he praiseth her."
					HANNAH T. KING
S. L. City, May '76.


VISITING CARDS.

	In the practice of turning card corners,
the upper left hand corner denotes "visite,"
and is used for an ordinary call. the upper
right hand corner turned down means "fe-
licitation," and is a visit of congratulation;
the lower left hand corner "conge," repre-
sents a farewell call, and the lower right
hand corner "condolence," expresses a de-
sire to sympathize with bereavement. The
rule most generally understood is the turn-
ing of one end of the card, which denotes a
wish to see the ladies of the family.


NOT long ago in a court in Toronto, a wit-
ness was under examination in a a case of
debt. The Judge asked him, "what is your
occupation?" The witness did not seem to
understand the meaning of the word "occu-
pation" and answered with "eh?" The
Judge varied his question: "what do you do
for a living?" Witness replied, "Oh my
wife's a dressmaker."


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE DEBATE of Woman Suffrage in Par-
liament in England, has relatively far great-
er importance than any Congressional vote
here, because the decision of Parliament
must decide the question for the whole
kingdom, and in this country it is distribu-
ted and decided by Legislatures in the dif-
ferent states. This Bill is not only for Suf-
frage but to extend to such women as vote
in municipal elections, the right also to vote
for members of Parliament. Mr. John
Bright's speech in Parliament on this Bill
has called forth criticism from all persons
interested in the subject, and the Woman's
Journal says, "There is many a humble
home in England and America, where his
picture heretofore honored, will henceforth
be turned to the wall. Since Webster's 7th
of March speech there has been no down-
fall so conspicuous; and Whittier's grand
poem of "Ichabod," seems its only fitting
lament. The liberal press of England and
Scotland are profuse in their criticisms,
many of them very cutting and pointed.
There are many things which tend to prove
that public sentiment is with the extension
of Woman's Suffrage." One thing particu-
larly encouraging to those who are anxious
the Bill should pass, is that one half of the
minority are new members. It is not to be
supposed because the Bill has been rejected
that it will never pass. "In the Parliament
of 1841, Mr. Charles Pelham Villiers, asked
again and again that the Corn Laws might
be repealed, and over and over again the
House of Commons rejected the proposi-
tion. But in the year 1846 the same House
of Commons that had refused to listen to
him, passed a measure repealing the Corn
Laws." Mr Forsyth in his speech in the
house, moving the second reading of the
Bill said there had been no single meeting
against the principle of the Bill, but on the
contrary in favor of it crowded meetings
had been held in every large town in Eng-
land, Scotland and Ireland, and resolutions
by large majorities in favor of the Bill have
been enthusiastically adopted.

	THE WOMAN'S meeting in Boston closed
its session in May to open again in Novem-
ber. This association has for its object
more particularly "the unfolding of the aes-
thetic and spiritual elements of human na-
ture, than the mere literary and scientific,
though these are by no means ignored."
Reading the last sentence reminds us forci-
bly that these meetings of the Boston wo-
men are very similar to the organizations of
the women of Utah, the chief aim and ob-
ject of which is the higher cultivation of
the spiritual nature, though the physical,
moral and mental elements are not lost
sight of.


AN old detective at Troy says: "If I de-
sired to train my son for a detective, I
would first make him a newspaper reporter,
that beyond any other business is the busi-
ness that makes stupid men smart, ordinary
men able, and capable men brilliant; and
what an experienced reporter cannot detect
is not worth detecting."


10					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Re-
trenchment Association held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
May 27th, was one of an exceptionally in-
teresting nature. Prest. Mrs. M. I. Horne,
Counselors E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young, S. M.
Kimball, and E. Howard each addressed
the meeting, being seemingly inspired to
speak of the subjects which are adapted to
the present time, the building of the tem-
ple, the coming fair, home-industries silk
manufacture etc.
	Meeting of the same Association at the
same place Sat. June 10, was largely attend-
ed, and not only were the minutes of the
young ladies specially interesting, but each
person who spoke seemed to dwell with in-
terest on the topics most appropriate to the
occasion. A great deal of business was al-
so transacted relative to the Territorial Fair
now in contemplation, which will be held
in the Old Constitution Buildings, Main
Street, instead of the Social Hall, as was
previously anticipated, and will be opened
on Thursday July 6th.

			MORONI, May 10th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Association here was
organized on the 17th of June, 1875, with
Mrs. Hannah Cloward, President, and Mrs.
Anna Swenson and Miss Artie Draper,
Counselors; Miss Annie Irons, Secretary,
and Miss Ellen Munson, Assistant Secretary.
	Bishop G. W. Bradley and Counselors met
with the sisters of the Relief Society to or-
ganize the Retrenchment Association—they
gave us good counsel. Our Society is in a
flourishing condition, and we are trying to
do all in our power to aid in rolling on the
great work of the Latter-days. I think we
all should feel interested in the woman's
paper and help to sustain it. With sincere
feelings and best of wishes for your future
success, I remain
			Respectfully,
					ANNIE IRONS, Sec'y.

			VIRGIN CITY, May 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	According to the counsel of Sister Eliza
R. Snow, the young sisters of Virgin City
have lately been organized into a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association under
the guardianship of the Relief Society.
On the second day of March, 1876, the
young sisters were called together, and were
organized with the following officers:
	Mrs. Mary Ellen Steele, President,
	"	Gabriella Willis,		}
	"	Elizabeth Campbell,	} Counselors
	Miss Wealthy Richards,	}
	"	Medora Owens,		}
	"	Lucinda Stratton, Secretary.
	"	Eleanor Jepson, Assistant Secretary.
	We meet together once a week, and we
are pleased that our members are very
punctual to attend meetings. There are
about thirty families here, and we have
thirty-two members already belonging to
our Association. We are pleased to say
that our Association is in a very prosperous
condition. The principal objects of our
meetings are to cultivate the minds and
talents of the young Daughters of Zion.
We cannot say that we ought to retrench
from following the foolish fashions of the
world; we have no such vices, styles and
fashions in our quiet little town, as abound
in large towns and cities. We are gratified
with the rapid progress of our young sisters
since the organization of our Association.

[Column 2]
We have acted upon the advice of Presi-
dent Brigham Young and have ceased all
round dancing, and close our parties at ten
o'clock. We have a more punctual attend-
ance at our Sabbath School, and we are con-
stantly striving to qualify ourselves as be-
cometh the daughters of Zion. Our advice
to the young sisters everywhere would be
to cease following the vain fashions of the
world, and attire themselves neatly and
with becoming simplicity; cultivate refine-
ment of manner and person, and strive to
have the Spirit of God for guidance.
	We remain as ever, your sisters in the
Gospel,
				LUCINDA STRATTON,
				ELEANOR JEPSON,
							Secretaries.

		TOKERVILLE, April 30th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing con-
dition; I can truly say our associations have
united us together. Although we have
not much means we are rich in spirit, blest
with health, kind hearts and willing hands,
that are ready to help build up the kingdom
of God. We received a visit from Sister E.
S. Barney last November; she gave us very
good instruction, but her visit was short.
Our young ladies have not yet been organ-
ized as a Retrenchment Society; I think if
they would read the EXPONENT and see
the good feeling that prevails among the
young sisters that belong to those associa-
tions they would not be at all backward, but
would wish for an organization. Our young
people manifest a good spirit in attending
Sabbath meetings and Sunday School. Our
Relief Society was re-organized January
15, 1876, with the following named officers:
	Elizabeth Kleinman, President.
	Mary Forsythe,	} Counselors.
	Ann Savage,		}
	Sarah A. Spilsbury, Secretary.
	Adelaide Savage, Treasurer.
	May God bless the EXPONENT and all
those who are interested in its welfare, is
our earnest desire. Hoping I may say
something at another time that will be of
more interest to your readers,
			Yours respectfully,
			S. A. SPILSBURY, Secretary.

	BEAVER CITY, UTAH, May 31st, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Since the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in this place, January 11th, 1868, we
have donated as follows:
	To the poor,..................	$ 2,	263 75.
	 " St. George Temple,...		506 70.
	 " Perpetual Emigration
		Fund,................			  87 10.
	 " Bell for Public Meet-
		ing House,............		  88 00.
	 " Sunday School,..........		  39 40.
		Total..................		    2. 984 95.

	We have a house and lot worth $2,200 00.
The house is well furnished, and we have a
carpet, chairs, table, stove, clock, etc.  We
also have $100 00 in the Co-operative Store,
and there is now in the treasury:

	Cash,.................................		$21 25
	Clothing, etc.,.....................		  36 15
		Total,............................		  57 40

	We hold meetings once a month, and
sewing circles once every two weeks; both
are tolerably well attended.
		Very Respectfully,
				LUCINDA HOUD, Prest.
			   MARY E. ASHWORTH, Sec.


HYGENIC NOTES.

	To Cure Hoarseness.—When the voice is lost,
as is sometimes the case, from the effects of a
cold, a simple, pleasant remedy is furnished by
beating up the white of one egg, adding the juice
of one lemon, and sweetening with white sugar to
the taste. Take a teaspoonful from time to time.
It has been known to effectually cure the ailment.
	Lemonade for Scarlet Fever.—An eminent phys-
ician of a Western city, says he has cured ninety-
nine out of every hundred cases of scarlet fever
by giving the patient warm lemonade with gum
arabic dissolved in it. A cloth wrung out in hot
water and laid upon the stomach should be re-
moved as rapidly as it becomes cool.
	Remedy for Earache.—There is scarcely any
ache to which children are subject, so bad to bear
and difficult to cure, as earache. But there is a
remedy, never known to fail. Take a bit of cot-
ton batting, put upon it a pinch of black pepper,
gather it up, tie it, dip in sweet oil and insert in
the ear. Put a flannel bandage over the head to
keep it warm. It will give immediate relief.
	Cure for Diptheria.—A correspondent of the
Boston Journal writes that he has used the follow-
ing remedy for diptheria in a great many hard
cases, and in not one has it failed to effect a cure.
It is as follows:—Procure some pitch tar—not gas
tar—put a little on a hot iron, invert a tunnel over
the smoke, and let the patient inhale as much as
he can without strangling, for a few minutes five
or six times a day. During the intervals let the
patient have small pieces of ice to keep as near
the roots of the tongue as possible.
	Another Remedy in Diptheria:—Dr. Hopkins,
in the Physician and Pharmacist, strongly urges
the employment of acid tannate or iron as a local
remedy in diptheria. It may be prepared, he
says, by the addition of one ounce of the muria-
ted tincture of iron to one of a strong solution of
tannin, and applied by means of a brush to the
diseased throat, or elsewhere as the case may be;
or, what is perhaps a still b[-]tter way, apply the
muriated tincture of iron in full strength to the
diseased part with a brush, wait a few moments,
then apply the solution of tannin in the same way,
thus forming a union of the two at the point of
disease, having the advantage of chemical action,
if there be any. On examination a few hours af-
ter, the line of demarcation will be seen distinctly
drawn by the discoloration of the diseased tissue,
showing the exact extent of the disease, the very
thing desired; with a tendency to separation, which
will go on rapidly, if the system be properly
treated with a nourishing diet and tonic and stim-
ulating remedies. Dr. Hopkins regards this rem-
edy as "above all others."


HOW IT IS DONE: "We know the pub-
lic is down upon us" remarked the old milk-
man, as he dipped out the desired quart
from one of his big cans; "but the public is
mistaken. In the fust place we put in a
leetle water—only a bit to make up for
shrinkage. It goes to the big dealers, and
they aint a bit keerful when they git to
pouring in water. They sells it to the re-
tailers, and they put in chalk with one
hand and water with the other, and they
are thinking of politics and git too much.
The servant gal goes after milk for the fam-
ily and drinks a third of it, and she puts
in water to make up the measure; and, you
see, when the family gets it the taste ain't
there, and they goes for us poor old men
who hasn't a dishonest hair in our heads.
That's the way, Mister—gee up, there, Ho-
mer!"
	WHY is a bald head like Paradise? Be-
cause it is a bright shining place, where
there is neither parting nor dying.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			11


For the EXPONENT
THE FACES OF DREAMLAND.

	O, faces fair and beautiful,
		That come to me in dreams at night,
	Crown'd with radiance softly glowing
		From the land of life and light;
	Are you watching o'er me kindly,
		Do you love to think of me—
	Of the days of joyous childhood,
		When our hearts beat happily?

	Now death's river rolls between us,
		You have safely crossed it o'er;
	Are you blest with true perfection
		Dwelling on that heavenly shore?
	Your faces glow with dazzling splendor
		When they beam on me at night,
	Methinks you're waiting fondly for me
		And my hopes are fair and bright.

	Oft you've kissed me in my slumbers
		With affection true and deep;
	O, the rapture when you're near me,
		But we cannot always sleep;
	Soon there coimes the sad awakening
		Then your loss seems doubly great—
	When will this life hard and dreary,
		End at heaven's bright pearly gate?

	When on my dying bed I lay
		Will you be there to think of me,
	And gently take me by the hand
		When my spirit shall be free?
	O, the love of those who've left us
		Never wearies or grows cold,
	They are near us, watching, waiting
		To welcome us to Father's fold.
								LYDIA D. ALDER.
S. L. City, May 10, 1876.


[Column 1]
		OVERWORKED WOMEN.

		"Man's work is e'en from sun to sun,
		But woman's work is never done."

	Ah, it is an old saying, old almost I know,
as our native hills; but so very true, as a
whole, so wise in its timing, so pretty the
rhyming that it may well act as sponsor to
all past dissertations on the subject. I said
as a whole, for though the great mass of
mankind do not expect or wish to work,
only from sun to sun—and we give them
full credit for knowing that it is only dire
misfortune in the end if they do—it unfor-
tunately happens there are many who by
force of circumstances, feel either obliged
to do so, to satisfy the needs of the hour, or
relying too confidently on their present
stock of endurance, stretch it, gutta percha
like, thus encroaching upon the principal,
instead of being satisfied with the sure and
all-sufficient interest. But the laws of na-
ture not to be defied, are as exacting in the
one case as the other; the penalty for in-
fringement on their domain the same.
	Now that we have settled the one, let us
go back to the ninety and nine wise men,
who almost literally work from sun to sun.
What shall we say of them? What is nec-
essary or best to say? Only this, what we
have already said: They are wise men in
this regard and shall reap the result of their
wisdom, just as surely as the sower of tares
shall reap tares again, You will think I
have wandered from my subject, or what is
more likely still, have not touched upon it
at all; but, believe me, I have not forgotten
that just above, and woven in with my old-
time rhyme, is Woman's name. Believe me
also, that her cause, inasmuch as it may
seem in jeopardy, is too near to my heart to
be lost sight of for any length of time.

To those who most do need should most be, given:
Though sometimes oak and tiny flower alike are light-
	ning riven.

Just so sure as it is the exceptional man
who works beyond the going down of the
sun, just so sure is it the exceptional wo-
man who does not.
	All through our alleged liberty-loving
New England, our women household toil-

[Column 2]
ers are numbered by the thousands, and,
though all who have charge in any way of
such households come within the scope of
my remarks, more nearly and more in sor-
row goes out my pity for those who have
such charges, with little, and so very often
no help at all. For the very reason that
this is so common a thing, Woman herself,
both the worker and the looker-on, fail to
give due importance either to the thing it-
self, or its dreadful results.
	Because we say 'housework,' do we
mean everything that can possibly be done
beneath the roof? for let me tell you that
the trades comprised under this head, are
almost numberless. For instance, here is
Master Tommy. Mamma is expected, not
only to keep Master Tommy's hair in proper
trim, knit his socks and black his shoes, but
to make every garment worn by him, from
those same shoes to the cropped hair, and
finally put on the crowning finish in the
shape of a hat on his unruly head. Allow-
ing for patches and darns innumerable, is it
not plain that this service alone must take
quite a slice from the time needed for what
should be considered household proper?
But supposing, as is often the case, there is 
also a Jack and Philip and Ned to be done
unto likewise? Then too, a Sally and Fan-
ny and Jane and yet the so-called house-
hold work at the end of it all?
	You think my picture preposterous per-
haps, and so it should be, and so it is, but
none the less "for a' that" it is true and—
yes, dear reader, right here you must allow
me to say, that as at present conducted in
the thousands of households scattered all
over our land, and in the face of the appar-
ently nonending wonder that housework
should be considered unpopular, if there is
one kind of labor more than another which
is unthanked, unappreciated drudgery, it
is this same so-called, housework. All oth-
er faces may be joyous that the morning,
noon, or evening rest has come, may lift
their grateful thoughts to him who made it,
for Saturday night with its sweet anticipa-
tions of a blessed Sabbath's rest. Where,
oh, where, is the seventh day's freedom from
toil for the weary housekeeper?
	That many men work seemingly to the
extent of their powers of endurance, such
a number of hours per day is true. Equal-
ly true is it, that the wives of many such
men after working the same, in point of
time and quantity, still work on, three
hours in addition to his, and sometimes,
(not always let us hope with the bitterest
bit of sarcastic insult for reward) their sup-
port is granted them in condescending char-
ity and magnanimity.
	You think I have spoken bitterly perhaps;
I know I have spoken truthfully.
	Neither, if you please, plead the light-
ness of Woman's work compared with
Man's. Her work is in accordance with her
physical strength, quite as hard as it is for
him, whilst the planning and plotting of
her almost innumerable tasks tax her brain
power to its utmost.
	Women go into the open air too little.
When they do go, it comes, after a time,
as cares accumulate, to be on some errand
where haste is indispensable, consequently
it is no rest, but only added tiredness.
	There is little or no time for mental im-
provement, less even for the recreation,
both physical and mental, so necessary to
all conditions of life. If, in consequence of
failing health this is taken notice of, she
may be urged, aye, even lectured at odd
times, to go out; but somehow the one
thing needful is apt to be overlooked. The
drift of care and toil is not lessened. No
one proposes to sacrifice one superfluous

[Column 3]
want, and experience has taught her well
that if they are all attended to there is no
time left for out-door exercises.
	What wonder, in view of this method,
that our race is dwindling and degenerating?
What wonder even that the overworked
mothers tremble at the advent of a woman
child?
	Do not ask me that formula, if you please.
—how did our fore-mothers do thus and
so? I do not like to think of those strong
fresh-lived women of the long ago. The
contrast betwixt them and now is too great.
While the history of the past has handed
down to us ample proof of the nobleness in-
cidental to their time and day, and while we
glory in the knowledge thereof, the living
history of to-day is furnishing with equal
fidelity, the result of their comparative ig-
norance and inexperience. It is indisputa-
bly with this that we have most largely to
deal. Had those dear, old fore-mother's
understood the laws of re-action, as well as
they seemed to recognize a necessity for al-
ways constant action, our lines, I think, had
been cast in pleasanter places. As it is, a
weakened generation is before us. Shall
we then professing enlightenment, as we
do fail to profit thereby? Nay, let us bear
it perpetually in mind, that we too are fore-
mothers of the yet to be. Let us ask can-
didly, and earnestly, one of the other, "Is
there any surer way of blessing our children
than by providing that their mothers be
blessed before them?" Aye, let us look well
at this question which has come up before
us, and thank God that it is not remediless;
for aside from the drunkenness of our na-
tion, no wrong in existence calls more
loudly for amendment, than this same
hausehold slavery of women,
				MARY J. RICHARDSON.
	Lebanon, N. H.—Ex.


ARABIAN MEN AND WOMEN.

	The Arabs are generally handsome, with
pale, oval faces, aquiline noses, and large,
dark eyes. They have rather an effemi-
nate appearance. Their dress is almost in-
describable. They wear a sort of loose,
baggy, pantaloons, fastened at the waist by
a sash coming down nearly to the knees, be-
low which the entire leg and foot are bare.
Some wear sandals. Their heads are cov-
ered with a turban, and when walking about
free from work, they wear a long flowing
cloak with a hood, which is thrown not un-
gracefully over the shoulders. The fabric
from which it is made being originally of
white woolen or worsted, but is innocent of
recent washings and uncertain in color as
worn. The women when seen outdoors, are
attired in a large white robe reaching below
the knees, full white trousers fastened at
the ankle, and slippers. Their heads and
faces are covered excepting their eyes.
They are possessed with a reasonable share
of coquetry. So far as I have seen I do not
think them as good-looking as the men.—
N. Y. Express.


"I THOUGHT you were born on the 1st of
April," said a husband to his lovely wife,
who had mentioned the 21st as her birth-
day. "Most people would think so from
the choice I made of a husband," she re-
plied.
	RETICENCE: If you don't know what
everybody else knows, you had better hold
your tongue; and if you know something
that everybody else knows, you had better
hold your tongue also; at the same time, if
you know something that nobody else
knows, keep it to yourself.


12		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1876.


THE TIMES.

	In the present epoch of the world's history
may be recorded, that now and then, at almost
regular intervals, a decided lull seems to
have o'erspread the earth and its inhabitants.
Rumors of great disasters by sea and by land
are hushed; the hand of death is stayed; busi-
ness is be-calmed; even the voice of conten-
tion is for the instant quieted. At such a mo-
ment, if the wheel of Time does not itself be-
come clogged, there seems to be a kink, a pause
in the windings of the great chain of events.
How long the calm will last, or what results
will follow, the Allwise Ruler can alone define.
Even to the inspired among men, it is not
given to comprehend the exact time of day, or
what change will be next in order, succeeding
the silence of such an hour. But, the Lord
does not slumber, neither should His people.
The Saints have been warned of approaching
dangers, and forewarned against slothfulness
and procrastination.
	Let not a momentary subsidence decoy any
into the belief that the reign of peace has com-
menced. The heavy storm is always preceded
by a calm, and the longer the clouds are in
gathering, the more to be dreaded is the com-
ing tempest. Have we oil in our vessels, and
are our lamps trimmed?


WHAT IS DUTY?

	This one simple phrase, insignificant as it
seems, comprises much of happiness or sorrow
according to the interpretation given to it. To
fulfill all the obligations of life from childhood
upward is synonomous with duty, but can one
always be sure what is the first duty? An emi-
nent writer of the present day in answering
this question says; "It is to fulfill the claims
of the day;" but evidently there are a variety
of claims, or things which demand attention;
and there must be some relative decision
WHICH is the highest duty.
	In these days there is much said about the
wife's duty, the husband's duty, and one's duty
to society and to the public; it appears that per-
sons are often undecided in regard to the high-
est duty. There are those who are easily
guided by another's ideas of duty, such peo-
ple certainly lose sight of their own individ-
uality. Every rational being should endeavor
to comprehend for themselves wherein their
individual duty lies, and cultivate all the fac-
ulties God has imparted to them, for when
called to account for the sins of commission or
omission, what can it avail to admit another
pointed out the line of duty, and without call-
ing in the aid of the forces lying dormant in


the soul, submitted to the blind leading of an-
other, and thus proved false to the integrity
which it is due to every human being to main-
tain.
	The remark is frequently made "I know
my duty," yet how careless and indifferent
many are in the discharge of trifling duties, as
they are termed; but after all is it not these
minute details that make up the great sum of
existence here?
	If persons understood the relative duties per-
taining to the variety of circumstances inci-
dent to life and performed those duties care-
fully, then none would swerve from the path
of rectitude, and perfection would be the ulti-
mate result, but to choose between good and
evil, if it were easy to make the distinction,
would reflect little credit, though one chose
the better part; but to discern the true amid
falsity, to make the knowledge of duty one's
study is a sublime work; all duties are not
pleasant in their nature; some very brilliant
writers have said the fulfillment of duty
brings with it a sublime joy; there are certain-
ly many such instances, but while "darkness
covers the earth and gross darkness the minds
of the people" and there is no infallible guide
to duty, what remains? To do all the good
we can, to trust in God for the event, to learn
how to submit one's self to God, to perform
the mission He has assigned, is the height of
sublimity. To do one's duty independent of
the prevailing influences is indicative of true
nobility of character, and is the truest self-
denial.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE R. S. Reports from several places,
also other correspondence we are compelled to
lay over for want of space; but we intend to
publish them as soon as practicable. As our pa-
per is small and only issued semi monthly, we
have to be governed accordingly.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young and the party
with him, left St. George, Monday, June 12,
to meet the Arizona Party President D. H.
Wells, Elder Brigham Young Jr., and the oth-
ers who expected to arrive at Kanab, Thursday
(June 15) on their route homeward. President
Young's health has very much improved dur-
ing his absence. The accident to President
Wells and the brethren who were with him in
the boat when it sunk in the Colorado river,
would seem another strong testimony of the
interposition of Divine Providence in behalf of
His servants. This people should not forget
to acknowledge the goodness of God to them
in this peculiar incident, although at the sac-
rifice of one life. In the midst of circumstan-
ces such as this, one can but exclaim with him
of old; "Truly O God Thy ways are marvel-
lous and past finding out."
	WE HAVE received recently pleasant calls
from many of the strangers who have visited
Salt Lake City; persons of cultivation, polish
and refinement. Some editors and corres-
pondents of different papers, who seemed to
think our EXPONENT a very creditable Wo-
man's paper, although not approving of some
of the principles we advocate. To persons
expressing themselves thus, we invariably
make the same answer. We endeavor to ad-
vocate the principles in which we believe, and
practice what we teach; to express the opin-
ions of the women of Utah in regard to Wo-
man's capacity sphere of duty and use-
fulness, as regards not only temporal but spir-
itual salvation.


1876, Fourth of July; 1876, the Great Cen-
tennial Day, there will be a Ladies' Centenni-
al Excursion to Haight's Grove, Lake Side.
Trains leave this city at 8 o'clock a. m., re-
turn at 7 p. m. Tickets $1,00.
		Mrs. E. Davis,	}
		"	S. Str[-]ck,	}	Committee.
		Miss L. Davis.	}


SLANDER.

	The subject of slander has been touched up-
on a great many times in our Relief Society
meetings in this place, and the baneful effects
of it have been vividly portrayed where the
people allow this spirit to get footing amongst
them. What is more bitter or poisoning in
its venom than the tongue of the habitual
slanderer? It is no respector of persons, but
hurls its venom on all alike; and wo to the
person that comes within the circle of its in-
fluence. If a story should happen to come to
the ears of one of this class concerning any
person or persons, that would be any way prej-
udicial to their character, it is grabbed at as
eagerly as a fish would grab at a bait, and
without pausing to see whether there was the
least foundation to the report, spread far and
wide with the quickest possible dispatch, nor
rests until every person within reach is well
posted with all the particulars and enough add-
ed to make it appear plausible, and all of
course swallowed eagerly by the majority of
people, without reflecting, perhaps it is not
true; and if inquiry should be made as to the
source of nine-tenths of the stories that are set
afloat by the vile slanderer, they originated in
nothing at all.
	Should we dear sisters encourage such a spir-
it among us? The Lord forbid. When a tale
is told concerning a person, that would be an
injury to them, let us not spread or repeat it,
until we are sure whether it has come from a
reliable source. If this course had always been


adopted, what untold misery and suffering
would have been saved to many innocent
hearts who have languished and pined beneath
the frowns and jeers of those who were per-
haps far beneath them in every virtue and
moral principle, that helps to constitute a good
reliable character. "Let those who are with-
out sin, cast the first stone," were the words
of our blessed Saviour, and what a happy
world it would be if we would all follow these
teachings. It is a duty we owe to our God, and
our fellow creatures; to encourage every good
principle, and put our foot on that which has
an evil tendency.
	That the Lord will help us to do so, is the
prayer of your sister in the Gospel.
								SARAH.
Pa[-]is, Bear Lake Co., Apr. 1st, 1876.


For the Exponent.
				PRAYER.

	What a sweet word is prayer; it fills one's
heart with such a sweet rest, and sooths and
comforts as only prayer can. How many mean-
ings has prayer? Comfort for the weary, the
broken-hearted and those in distress; it means
forgiveness of sins for the sinful and repentant,
with a better life ever after. When we feel
dispirited and think there is nothing on earth
worth living for, when our friends prove false
to us, when we meet with every disappoint-
ment that can befall human beings, when we
see our dear ones taken from us, and almost
think that God has forgotten us, and that He
has laid His chastening hand too heavy upon
us, and that our cross is more than we can
bear; then comes the sweet thought of prayer,
stealing into our hearts like the whispering of
an angel; then we can feel the soothing influ-
ence of that High and Holy One who has said
"Come unto me all you who are heavy-laden,
and I will give you rest." And verily He will
do so, for has He not said, "Heaven and earth
may pass away, but my word endureth for-
ever." Do we pray enough? We should al-
ways have a prayer in out hearts. "Pray al-
ways lest ye enters into temptation." And if
we ever feel that the way of life is thorny, and
we all know that there is more shadow than
sunshine here, let us lift up our voices to Him
who has said, "Ask and ye shall receive" and
we will find sweet consolation in prayer. The
sweetest words to me I ever read were these:
"Lord teach us how to pray."
									JUNE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		13


PARIS, BEAR LAKE CO., IDAHO TER,
						May 21st '76.
EDITORY EXPONENT:
	Although we have had a hard winter and a
cold backward spring, we are still alive to the
interests and welfare of the kingdom of God.
	We were yesterday called upon to part with
our much respected and esteemed Sister Mary
Humphreys. She has been an invalid for sev-
eral years, and great sufferer. Her funeral ser-
vices took place to-day, President C. C. Rich
delivered the funeral sermon.
	Our Society meetings are good, and the sis-
ters seem to take a lively interest in doing
what they can towards helping to build up
Zion.
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Associa-
tion is progressing finely, Prest. Rich often
meets with them, and seems to take great in-
terest in their advancement; always giving
good counsel and encouraging them to dili-
gence.
	Although our climate is rugged and cold, we
are blessed with health; there is little or no
sickness at this time. The grain is beginning
to make its appearance out of the ground; but
never mind, we have our spring time up here,
if it is in July.
	Your paper is read with great interest, and
duly appreciated; I always feel when I take it
up to read, as though I cannot lay it down un-
til I have read every item in it. You have
my best wishes for your progress and welfare.
			Yours Truly,
						EMELINE G. RICH


ARE WE REALLY LATTER-DAY
			SAINTS?

	The question is often asked, are you a
Latter-day Saint? We answer yes. But
do we fully realize the word Latter-day
Saint, do we live in such a manner that we
can say with sincerity that we are living
our religion to the best of our understand-
ing? I think we do not. We do not real-
ize as we should the blessings and privileges
that we enjoy, and we cannot comprehend
the glory that is in store for those who
truly live their religion according to the
plan laid down by our Savior. We are all
children of the same Father, and we can all
claim the blessings that He has promised
His children if we will walk in the paths
that He has assigned for us, and follow in
His footsteps. All have a certain amount of
work to perform, and of trials to endure,
and we must be tested by our own exertions
and experience. If we do not live up to
the light and knowledge which is given us
we must suffer the consequence in the day
of judgment. We cannot throw our sins
and wickedness upon the shoulders of oth-


ers. Each one must answer for themselves
we are not all gifted with the same amount
of intelligence, but we all have our own;
agency to act upon, and should be capable
of comprehending right from wrong. We
should improve our time instead of spend-
ing it in idleness and frivolity. We may
think we have plenty of time here upon the
earth, but remember we have none to lose,
and if each of us will live our religion as
true Latter-day Saints we will be prepared
for the coming of the Messiah; but if we
will allow our minds to become darkened,
we will be cast out from His presence; then
we will wish that we had improved the op-
portunities that were before us, and had
lived nearer our Heavenly Father; but it
will be too late then. Now is the time that
we must do right and live our religion. If
we always lived as we should there would
be no need of Retrenchment, but we think
more of following the fashions of the world
than we do of our religion, hence these
meetings were organized for our good, to
help us to a spiritual education, and if we
come here with a firm determination to put
into practice the teachings which we re-
ceive from time to time; and strive to pre-
pare ourselves to live lives of usefulness,
we will derive much benefit.
	The most of us have been taught from
our infancy, that Mormonism was true; and
we have believed it, because our parents
have taught us so; but now we are old
enough and it is necessary that we should
have a testimony for ourselves. If we have
doubts at any time, we should seek the
Lord in prayer and ask him to enlighten
our understanding, and if we ask Him in
faith and humility He will assuredly give
us His holy spirit to enlighten our minds;
and we will have a living testimony with-
in us.						A. S.


For the EXPONENT.
				CHARITY.

	I wish to write some of my thoughts on
charity at the same time, I feel how incapa-
ble I am of doing it justice. It is said
"true charity thinketh no evil and is ever
kind." Charity like mercy, "droppeth like
the gentle rain from heaven, upon the place
beneath, and is twice blest, it blesseth Him
that gives and him that takes. It is
mightiest in the mightiest, it becomes
the throned monarch better than his crown."
I am afraid we do not have true charity at
all times. It does not consist merely in re-
lieving the immediate wants of the poor
and suffering and bestowing our means
with a liberal hand. This is only a part of
our duty. We may be charitable to the rich
as well as to the poor. Our funds often do
not permit us doing deeds of charity, but
we can all cultivate charity in our feelings
towards all mankind; and even had we
wealth to bestow, it would perchance be
scorned by some who would no doubt appre-
ciate words of sympathy and love from us
as priceless boons. We should be very care-
ful not to judge each other harshly, and be-
cause some one does what we think is not
quite right, say they have a bad heart and
their motives are evil. Remember that
God is the great Judge of all His children,
and His judgment is far superior to ours;
for His is righteous judgment. If we
know our friends are doing wrong we should
try with all our might to win them from
their evil ways, yet not speak much of their
faults to others unless it be to guard them
from error. Show a reverence for the aged
and never presume to speak lightly of them,
or ridicule their looks or actions, lest God


in justice should mete out the same to us
when we grow old. How pure and noble
we would be if we thought no evil, and how
much happier our lives and those of our
fellow beings would become. It is a good
rule not to speak anything of a person
which we would not like them to hear; if
we can say no good let us speak no evil;
and especially let us not suffer ourselves to
speak evil of those our Heavenly Father,
has chosen to lead us here upon the earth;
if we reverence the holy priesthood, we
prove our devotion to our Eternal Father
to whom we owe all earthly happiness.
Then let us cultivate and express true char-
ity in every thought and act of life.
				MARY STUART.
Hyde Park, June 2, '76.


SPLINTERS.

				FOREIGN.
	Queen Victoria's new title of Empress of
India, meets with approval in Russia......
The King of Dahomey has been fined by
the British government for permitting the
slave trade in his dominions......The Pope
has replied to King Alfonzo's letter, thank-
ing him for the same, but wishing to avoid
discussion, and that Spain need fear noth-
ing from the new constitution......Advices
from Rio Grande City report Gen. Diaz
as retreating, suffering from scarcity of wa-
ter; and desertion of daily occurrence......
Ninety members of the House of Commons
have signed a memorial, asking the release
of the Fenian prisoners.


FLORAL HINTS.

	PELARGONIUMS for winter should be cut
as early as June, and the new leaves pinch-
ed off for a few weeks before potting. You
may regret this treatment at first but they
will reward you with steady bloom.
	FOR Heliotropes which you design for
winter blooming keep them pinched off
during the summer months, then pot them
in September, and they will grow large and
bloom profusely; give them plenty of sun-
shine, and all the water they can absorb.
	PRIMROSES are best kept in the shade
during the summer, part of the time in a
cold frame, with brush on the sash to shade
them. In the winter put them in the sun-
niest spot possible; then they will grow and
bloom all winter, requiring very little wa-
ter.
	WHEN house plants are troubled with in-
sects, set the plant on the floor, place a
small fire-shovel near it with a live coal
from the fire on it, then sprinkle some fine
tobacco on the coal, cover both plant and
shovel with a large cloth and give it a good
smoking. When sufficiently smoked wash
it with warm suds, then in clear water.
	HOGA Carnosa: This plant is a native of
the forests of tropical Asia, where it is
partly parisitical, its roots penetrating the
bark of the trees that support it; we can
only give less water for rest, as it will not
bear a low temperature. It is easily rooted
by wrapping a branch in moss, and keep-
ing it moist until the adventitous roots are
an inch or so long when it may be cut off
and potted.


NOTE FOR DARWIN; In time the mul-
berry tree becomes a silk-gown and a silk-
gown becomes a woman.
	WHEN is a fowl's neck like a bell? When
it is rung for dinner.


141		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				AMBITION.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	         "Longing sublime and aspirations high."
	These few words will find a ready re-
sponse in the hearts of thousands. There
are few people surely but that have some-
times felt an undefinable if not a definite
longing to do something noble to attain to
some position worthy of merit, or respect,
if not  admiration. This inherent princi-
ple in human nature is a spark of divinity,
and properly exercised and controlled is
certainly a quality which would admit of the
highest cultivation. It is a human plant
and should have abundant care in the train-
ing; left wild, it would be an uncouth, ill-
shapen overgrowth, entirely unadapted to
human intelligences, but hedging it about
with graceful and appropriate shrubbery
and foliage and giving it the support of
some lofty and reliable object, it may devel-
op into something grand and sublime.
	Ambition may be compared to the lofty
heights of the stupendous mountains,
which look so grand in the distance, which
enchant and dazzle the beholder with the
golden and purple haze, and attract by
their bewildering splendor, and viewing
them with romantic imaginings one fancies
how easy would be the ascent, and fixing
the attention perhaps upon some specified
point, bend every energy to gain the al-
luring height. Perchance it seemed very
near at first, very easy of access and the
ambitious climber, thought a firm resolve
and determination to: persevere were guar-
antees of sure success, and all would be
smooth upon the route. Alas for the fal-
lacy of human schemes! The golden haze
that surrounded the desired point shed a
soft and glimmering glamour over the in-
tervening distance, and hid from sight all
questionable objects, and with light heart
and undoubting faith, the aspirant presses
forward, and ere long encounters hedges,
thorns, thistles, and sharp rocks to be pass-
ed over, and sometimes wounds are inflict-
ed by them, where the surface looked
smooth and flattering.
	Who could have thought, when the dis-
tance seemed so easy to determine, it would
take so much weary travel over rough
roads, and through deep mire, across wide
yawning chasms, and winding intricate
paths, and through narrow ravines, where an
incautious step would obstruct all future
progress in the desired route? Often upon
the weary pilgrimage do the tired feet al-
most miss their firm hold stumbling and fal-
tering for want of strength to perform the
laborious journey, advancing so immeasura-
bly slow that the courage slackens, and
doubts arise of the strength of endurance
to reach the goal.
	Whether climbing to gain the point for
honor, for popularity or wealth, or with
some more noble purpose in view, there are
similar difficulties to encounter; and after
having traveled far and long, and perhaps
wearied with the arduous struggle, the
mountains loom up as far in the distance as
at first, and no wonder that the many diffi-
culties to be overcome seem unendurable,
for it wants something like super-human
strength to conquer every obstacle.
	If there were not a "happy valley" here
and there scattered along the route where
one might rest and recruit and mingling
with kindred associations become renewed
and invigorated, none could ever have the
fortitude to scale the high mountains; but
these inspire the traveler with increased
vigor to advance, and now and then in the

[Column 2]
desert are fresh bubbling springs of living
water, that cool the parched lips, and with
which to lave the heated brows.
	Occasionally a real friend crosses the way
and the hearty welcome, the true encour-
agement, the prompt aid, so much needed
to cheer, to inspire and revive the waning
courage, is given in such sincerity that one
cannot but feel an infinite sense of grati-
tude and a more ardent desire to reach the
pinnacle for which they started.
	It is commendable to seek some perma-
nent good for the general welfare of the
human family. How insignificant and nar-
row to a noble mind is that person who is
so self-absorbed as to utterly ignore another's
progress, or pass their endeavors by with
scorn, or indifference, sometimes without
even according the civility of a recogni-
tion of heroism, courage or merit. How
encouraging to the weary traveler is the
friendly word the cheery smile, the hospit-
able welcome upon the dreary way. "Such
is life," pursue whatever path you may, you
tread the common earth, travel where oth-
ers have trod; the hills are rough alike for
all, it is common dust, and mire and herb-
age, and even should one reach the beauti-
ful mountain, would it possess the charm it
held out in anticipation? Would there be
rest and peace, or would one look back at
the beautiful valley below, where they
stood as boy or girl, with yearning heart
and admiring eyes, gazing forward into the
distance eager to join the chase for some
lofty ambition?
	S. L. City, May 23, 1876.


LEARN TO BE USEFUL.

	Boys, when you come into the house for
your meals, and find the dinner or supper not
quite ready, and your mother or sister hurry-
ing around heated and tired, instead of stand-
ing about in the way, leaning against the
sink, or tilting back in your chair against
the buttery door, I would advise you to
take hold and help the women folks. At
first, maybe, you won't see any way you
can help them, unless you were brought up
to work occasionally in the house. Try and
experiment to-morrow. Come in a few mo-
ments before dinner time, and watch the
steps your mother takes in putting the fin-
ishing touches to the meal. See her lift the
heavy kettle of potatoes from the stove,
and, holding it with a great effort at nearly
arm's length, carry it to the sink, and then
lift it up again to drain off the water. Cer-
tainly you could do that for her. You can
take the pot of meat or beans from the oven,
and thus save much of her strength; you
can set the chairs, and run down cellar for
the butter or bread; you can glance over
the table, and see if a knife or spoon has
been misplaced in dishing up the dinner,
and if so, quietly replace it. Wouldn't this
be a better way, than, after the family are
all comfortably settled at the table, lo loudly
announce, "Maam my knife and fork's gone
—guess you mean for me to eat with my
fingers to-day:" and then mother has to
spring up, no matter how stiff and tired she
may feel, and run to the cupboard and bring
her great boy his knife. When you notice
that the vinegar cruet, the pepper; or salt
box; or any dish has been forgotten, rise up
quietly and get the same, before your moth-
er has a chance to. See if she can't sit in
peace at meal time, and not be continually
getting up for articles. Things will be for-
gotten in the best regulated families.—Prac-
tical Farmer.


WHAT keeps lent the longest and best?
Money.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	PRATTVILLE, SEVIER Co., Apr. 8, '76.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often thought I would like to tell
my sisters a little of my experience in the
UNITED ORDER, with which we have been
associated for two years, and what the prin-
ciple teaches us. It teaches us faith and in-
stead of worrying for every little necessity,
we simply ask our Father in Heaven, for
He knows the desires of our hearts, and
the way always opens so that we need not
suffer; for if we have given all our worldly
goods for the upbuilding of His Kingdom,
and spend our time and talents for the same;
we can have implicit faith that the Lord
will care for us.
	It teaches us economy, and we try to
make things last as long as possible, for
every little helps roll on the work; with
economy comes industry; unless we are very
industrious and careful we cannot keep
things in good repair and in order; for we
feel the Lord is displeased with us if we
are wasteful. It teaches us contentment,
(yet we sometimes hear complaints; but we
feel to do what is required of us, and leave
the rest in the hands of the Lord. We try
to observe the Word of Wisdom, knowing
that unless we do so we cannot realize the
promised blessings.
	We also learn obedience, for it is by be-
ing obedient that we expect to be exalted.
But dear Sisters you must not think we
have no trials, for we have many, but with
the help of God we will try to overcome
them all, and perfect ourselves as we pro-
gress. It is also a great pleasure to think
that we are raising our children under such
a good influence, they will, in time know
nothing else, and to live any other way will
seem strange to them. We are endeavor-
ing to observe the rules of the U. O. which
we know will improve any people who will
do so.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
								H. L.


KEEPING PIANOS IN ORDER:—A musi-
cal journal says that there is not attention
enough paid to pianos to keep them in good
tune. It asserts that a piano should be
tuned at least four times in the year by an
experienced tuner. If you allow it to go
too long without tuning, it usually be-
comes flat, and troubles a tuner to get it
to stay at tuning pitch, especially in the
country. Never place the instrument
against an outside wall, or in a cold damp
room, particularly in a country house.
There is no greater enemy to a piano than
damp. Close the instrument immediately
after you practice; by leaving it open, dust
fixes on the sound-board and corrodes the
movements, and if in a damp room the
strings soon rust. Should the piano stand
near or opposite to a window, guard it, if
possible, against being opened, especially
on a wet or damp day; and when the sun is
on the window, draw the blind down.
Avoid putting metallic or other articles on
or in the piano; such things frequently
cause unpleasant vibrations, and sometimes
injure the instrument. The more even the
temperature of the room, the better the in-
strument will remain in tune.


A teaspoonful of black pepper put into the first
water in which gray or buff linen is washed will
keep it from spotting. It will also keep the col-
ors of black and colored cambrics and muslins
from running.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		15


[Column 1]
		WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE.

	"Recently a public meeting in favor
of women's suffrage was held in St.
George's Hall, Langham plaee, Mr. Russel
Gurney, M. P., the Recorder of London,
presiding. The hall was quite full, and
among those on the platform were Miss
Becker, Miss Sturge, Miss Frances Power
Cobbe and Miss Tod."
	The chairman, after congratulating the
audience upon so large a meeting, after a
temporary discouragement in the House of
Commons, went on to enumerate some of
the items contained in the Bill which had
just recently been rejected. He thought the
Bill corrected the injustice which existed
and he argued that he could not see consist-
ency in allowing one landholder or a person
occupying house No. 13, and paying rates,
for that house, being allowed to vote, and a
person occupying No. 14, and bearing the
same burdens, not being allowed to vote
merely because there was a difference of
sex in the two occupants. He denied that
if women voted they would be enti-
tled to the right of sitting in Parliament,
any more than clergymen who had votes,
but had been prevented for more than a
century from sitting in Parliament. He
could not see why women should not have
their views represented: they could not al-
ways take the same view of questions as
men. He alluded to the complaints coming
mostly from wives, sisters, and daughters;
the subject of the injustice done to younger
sons was also brought up, that the eldest
sons carried off all the property, yet young-
er sons were not excluded from the fran-
chise.
	Miss Becker rose to propose the first reso-
lution as follows:—"That this meeting
hereby records its approval of the assimila-
tions of the conditions of the Parliamen-
tary, to those of the Municipal franchise in
so far as regards the disabilities of sex, and
pledges itself to support the principle by
every constitutional means." Before speak-
ing to it, however, she wished to read the
following letter:—
			"39, Sloane-street, May 13.
	"Madam,—I regret that I cannot comply
with your request in attending the meeting
at St. George's Hall. You must not on that
account, however, infer that I am unfriend-
ly to its object, I have voted in its favor on
more than one occasion, and doubtless I
shall do so again. It may be, as some think,
that no great advantage at this time would
accrue to the country by extending the
electoral suffrage, but I cannot see any prin-
ciple or consistency in withholding it, es-
pecially from those whose cause you are
pleading. The Legislature has conferred
the right on women of voting for their mu-
nicipal representatives, of voting for, (and,
indeed, acting as) Poor Law Guardians, and
the same with regard to School Boards, and
they have always been entitled to fill cer-
tain parochial offices, and it is never alleged
that in the discharge of these duties they
have acted less worthily than men. In
most respects, their rights as owners of
property are concurrent with those of men.
They can inherit peerages, and, as we know
to our satisfaction, they can occupy the
Throne. I cannot see, therefore, on what
ground it is that they can reasonably be said
to be disqualified from determining upon
the claims of candidates who seek to repre-
sent their interests in Parliament, especi-
under the peaceful condition in which they
would now record their votes.
	"As far as I am acquainted with the ob-
jections usually alleged, I am bound to say

[Column 2]
that they appear to be those which have al-
ways been offered whenever fresh extension
of liberty to the subject has been proposed,
and which in former years I have myself
heard urged against personal freedom in
the Colonies, religious liberty in this coun-
try, the enfranchisement of the working
classes, and against the abolition of every
monoply (political or commercial) whenever
it has been assailed. We have seen, how-
ever, with what little success resistance up-
on these great matters has of late years been
attended, and with what satisfaction the
results of past changes are now regarded by
the country. You, then, have little reason
to feel discouragement at the present posi-
tion of your cause. You have only to per-
severe, making it clear to the public that
your claim is just and possible to be enfore-
ed—and that political rights are now with-
held where there is intelligence and capaci-
ty to use them wisely and where the posses-
sion of them would afford protection and
benefit to those who demand them.
	"With great respect, dear Madam, I re-
main your obedient servant,
					C. P. VILLIERS.

	"To Miss Lydia Becker."

	She said no one would suppose for a mo-
ment that an adverse vote from the House
of Commons would convince any woman
who made this claim as a matter of justice
that the claim was unjust. Not all the elo-
quence of all the most eloquent ment who
ever lived could persuade an intelligent,
patriotic woman, that she had no right to
vote, if she possessed the legal qualifica-
tions, no more than it could persuade her
that she had no right to be educated if she
could pay the fees, or to sit down to dinner
if she could pay the bill. (Cheers.) She de-
manded no more than was contained in the
Bill introduced by Mr. Forsyth, and she
thought they were entitled to that.
	Mr. Cowen, M. P., supported the resolu-
tions, remarking that although they might
not be successful for years, their cause
would in the end triumph. Women's Suf-
frage would be sure to favor peace, econ-
omy and temperance. (Hear, hear.)
	Miss Cobbe said, indirectly the giving of
the vote to women, would make even bru-
tal men have more respect for them, etc.

	She believed that the granting of suffrage
to women was no less expedient for men
than it was just for women, and that it
would redound to the happiness, virtue and
honor of the country.
	After a few words from Mr. Hinde Pal-
mer in support of the resolution, an amend-
ment was proposed declaring that it was ex-
pedient and wise to allow the law to remain
as it is; but it was lost, and the original res-
olution carried by a large majority.
	Miss Sturge moved the second resolution
as follows:—"That this meeting hereby ex-
presses its earnest thanks to Mr. Forsyth,
Mr. Jacob Bright, Dr. Ward, Mr. Fawcett, Sir
Robert Anstruther, and Sir Charles Legard
for introducing and supporting the Women's
Disabilities Removal Bill; also to the 161
Members of Commons who voted or paired
in its favor in the division on the second
reading of the measure on the 26 of April,
1876, and respectfully requests Mr. Forsyth
and his coadjutors to take steps for the re-in-
troduction of the Bill at an early period next
session."
	Mr. O'Shaughnessy, M. P., seconded the
motion, which was supported by Miss Tod,
and carried.
	The chairman was thanked for presiding,
and the meeting broke up."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To whiten unbleached Valencicnnes lace, lay
on a cloth and cover with magnesia or baby pow-
der, leaving it over night. Blow off the dust and
repeat if need be.
	Clean cashmere lace by dipping or rinsing it in
gasoline, being careful not to rub it so as to get
the meshes and figures out of place. Dry it out of
doors, then lay it on a cloth in good form, and
place between the leaves of a book to press.
	Potato Balls for Breakfast.—To three cups of
cold mashed potatoes add one cup of sweet cream,
a little salt and two well-beaten eggs. Mould in-
to little balls; put on a baking-pan, and set in the
oven until done a delicate brown, or, if preferred,
fry in boiling lard.
	To Make Attar of Roses.—Gather the flowers
of some of the most fragrant sorts, but the com-
mon Blush or other June roses are the best. Put
the petals in a cask, or stone jar, with sufficient
water to cover them. Then put the vessel out of
doors where the sun will keep it warm. In a
week or ten days the oil may be seen on the surface,
and may be removed by the aid of a piece of cot-
ton.
	To clean kid gloves. Lay your glove in a
long, flat-bottomed dish, like a common vegetable
dish, and cover it with the gasoline; rub soiled spots
with a clean white rag, squeeze, not wring with
your hand, as dry as you can, lay it on a clean old
muslin, take one corner of the muslin and rub the
fingers and thomb out smooth, rub soiled spots if
any remain, inflate by blowing into it, then pin on
a cloth out-of-doors to dry. The process should
be gone through with quickly, as the glove is in-
jured by remaining in the liquid; not more than
ten minutes being occupied in cleaning the pair of
gloves. This will be found excellent economy.


LORD DERBY TO THE BOYS.

	In his speech to the Liverpool lads Lord
Derby said:—"You live in an age of inquiry,
of doubt, of mental restlessness, when more
than ever men are unwilling to accept tra-
ditional solutions to the great mysteries
which surround our life and when many
brains are bewildered, and many hearts
are made to ache by the vain effort to solve
problems impenetrable to human reason.
You cannot escape the common destiny.
Those of you who reflect—and I hope they
will be many—will inevitably have times of
mental perplexity when the very purpose
of existence seems obscure and doubtful;
when traditions appear to fail, and reason is
baffled and when men ask in bewilderment,
'What does it all mean?' I am not here to
deal with these high matters; it is not my
duty, nor is this the place. Only so much
I tell you—I believe that there are ideas
implanted in us which, in a sound mind, no
merely intellectual disturbance will long af-
fect, and of which, in the deepest darkness,
we may always, if we will, keep hold. Right
and wrong, honor, duty, and country benev-
olence towards men and responsibility to-
ward the unseen Power by which human
actions are guided and controlled—these
are not idle phrases. In all countries and
ages they have retained their meaning.
They are realities which correspond with
the deepest wants and feelings of our na-
ture, and no man will feel himself utterly
cast down who can say in his heart what
the wisest and best of the human race have
proclaimed in the whole tenor of their lives.
Whether I am happy or unhappy is not my
chief affair; what first and most concerns
me is to find my work in life, to recognize
it and to do it."—Ex.


16		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	To be borrowed without giving security.
Trouble.
	DEEP THINKERS: Visitors in a mine
wondering if they will get out alive.
	MARRIAGE is described by a French cynic
as a tiresome book with a very fine preface.
	WHY should every man wear a watch
when he travels in a desert? Because
every watch has a spring in it.
	THERE is no special style for engraving
engagement rings. A spider's web with a
fly in it, has been suggested as a pretty de-
vice.
	THE momentous question: Augustus; 'well
Emily, do you love me or do you not?" Em-
ily: "Well, if I say I don't I shall have to
return your present!"
	"THAT's what I call a finished sermon,"
remarked a man as he was coming out
of church. "Yes, finished at last," rejoined
his neighbor, "though I began to think it
never would be."
	A SEVERE RETORT: Soon after Lord
Sidney's elevation to the Peerage, he hap-
pened to observe in company, that authors
were very often ridiculous in the titles they
gave. "That," said a poet who was pres-
ent, "is an error from which even kings are
not exempt."
	A RECENT advertisement contained the
following startling information. "If the
gentleman who keeps the stove store with
a red head will return the umbrella of a
young lady with whalebone ribs and an
ivory handle, to the slate-roofed grocer's
store, he will hear of something to his ad-
vantage, as the same is the gift of a de-
ceased mother now no more with the name
engraved upon it.
	THE VARIETY OF DISEASES: "Disease is
very various" said Mrs. Partington, as she
returned from the street in company with
Dr. Bolus. "The Dr. tells me that poor old
Mrs. Hare has got two buckles on her lungs.
It is dreadful to think of, I declare. The
disease is so various. One day we hear of
people's dying with hermitage of the lungs;
another day of the brown creatures. Here
they tell us of the elementary canal being
out of order, and then about tonsors of the
throat. Here we hear of the neuology in
the head, there of embargo. On one side
of us we hear of men being killed by get-
ting a pound of tough beef in the sarcoph-
agus, and another kills himself by discover-
ing his jocular vein. Things change so that I
declare I don't know how to subscribe for
any disease now-a-days. New names and
new nostrils take the place of the old, and
I might as well throw my herb-bag away.


ACTOR AND ACTRESS.

	"Bad women on the stage. The private
character of an actress is a fit matter for pub-
lic criticism. Her reputation belongs to those
who support her. If it be pure she cannot
but be proud to have it known. If it be im-
pure, it is a matter of right it should be
published, that the public may not be de-
ceived. The noble sentiments of a play lose
all intention in the mouth of a notoriously
wicked person."—Exchange.
	The private character of an actor is a fit
matter for public criticism. His reputation
b[-]l[-]ngs to those who support him. If it be
pure he cannot but be proud to have it
known. If it be impure, it is a matter of
right it should be published, that the pub-


lic may not be deceived. The noble senti-
ments of a play lose all intention in the
mouth of a notoriously wicked person.
	Woman has borne the brunt of criticism
long enough alone. A bad man has never
been condemned and cast out and crushed
to the earth, as has a bad woman who can-
not have been worse than he, and who is
often enough, God knows! more sinned
against than sinning. It is not man, nor
law, nor society alone, that so harshly judg-
es, and rigorously manages this inquisitori-
al punishment, but Woman, she it is who
has helped make it so fearful a thing to be
a Woman!
	Can this fair Pharisee tell us why the man
sinner is more worthy of respectful place and
treatment than the female sinner? We
cannot discover wherein he is more deserv-
ing than she. We desire to be just in cur
judgment, meting out only honest measure,
and so, while we would crush none to the
earth, whatever their sin, we would exalt
none who had not shown repentance, and
thereby unfitness for renewed confidence and
favor.
					WOMAN'S JOURNAL.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES,
	(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
              Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 30[-], Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guara[-]tee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School [-]rizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to	C. R. SAVAGE,
								Salt Lake City, Utah. 

					Now Receiving, at
	TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
  Flowers, &c.
		Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps. Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U.0. 14th WARD, [-]our
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
		Manufacturers of
ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indespensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BAR[-]OOT, Chemical Director.
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of 
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her 
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and 
price.				17, East Temple street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

	THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CL[-]CK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and K[-]t at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
        They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
		BUTTER and EGGS,
				F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
		       OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
		     AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES! 
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
