VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. APRIL 15, 1877.	No. 22.


WELCOME TO SPRING.

O beauteous Spring! fragrant of leaf and bloom.
	Nature with myriad welcomes hails thy birth;
Thou breathest, and lo! a rich and sweet perfume,
	Rises like incense from the gladdened earth.

O gent!e spring! thy presence everywhere
	Renews the life-pulse, even in earth's cold heart,
And from its bosom, wild-buds and blossoms fair
	In rich profusion, all spontaneous start.

Whence come ye fairy-footed, gay with flowers?
	Lightly ye tripped o'er mountain hill and plain;
The song-birds herald thee from Eden's bowers,
	And, with sweetest music, usher in thy reign,

Trilling their notes till answering echoes ring
	From wood, and glen, and fountain's mellowed flow:
And mortal hearts a silent offering bring,
	And bathed in sunlight, nature's landscapes glow.

And hope springs up afresh in saddened lives,
	And clouds disperse and heaven again is clear,
And tenderest trust, and confidence revives,
	For spring has come, and beautified the year.

Thou comest a harbinger from courts above;
	That we may realize, God's promises are sure;
Thou scatterest blessings, all replete with love,
	And givest us faith, earth's trials to endure.

Hail b'essed type of Morn, whose roseate light,
	Shall bring the tidings of a holier birth—
The Resurrection, by whose power and might
	The sleeping millions will be ushered forth.
		EMILE.
S. L. City, April 13, 1877.


[Column 1]
	A TRUE TALE OF THE PAST
			AND PRESENT.

	When on the Island of Tupuai, South
Pacific Ocean, a boy was given me, when an
infant one year old. His father, a brilliant
young man, native of New York, was a
missionary companion of my husband, Eld-
er Addison Pratt. Having remained there
for several years, he married a native wo-
man from the Chain Island group; the issue
was three sons, one of which we, (my hus-
band and myself) adopted. We brought
him over the seas when he was two years
old, in 1852. In 1858 I brought him to
Utah. He was a smart, bright, boy, and I
took pride in teaching him. He remained
with me till he was sixteen, his father be-
ing absent most of the time. He then left
me without permission, and went with a
freighter to Montana. Through various
vicissitudes, he became an express rider.
On one of his trips, in 1870, he was cap-
tured by the Black Foot Indians, robbed of
the mail, stripped of all his clothes, and
left seventy miles from any habitation. He
managed to reach Ft. Hawley almost frozen
and starved; after recuperating he was in-
duced to ingage in the same business, which
he followed one year longer, and was then
captured by the Sioux Indians; he was kept
two years confined to one lodge; but after
that had more priviliges granted him; he
became so accustomed to their habits, and
not being cruelly treated, felt disposed to
remain with them until circumstances
should render it practicable for him to
make his escape. In the meantime apply-
ing himself with all diligence to study
their character, their methods of warfare,
and to know every inch of their country;
thinking that in some future day his knowl-
edge would be of service to himself and he
of service to his country. It was not until
1875 that he found an opportunity to es-

[Column 2]
cape, having been five years the protege of
the famous "Sitting Bull." We named
him "Ephraim Pratt," while away he took
the name of his real father Frank Grou-
ard; he went to a military station, and
was immediately appropriated by General
Crook; as guide and scout in his command.
His father, Mr. B. F. Grouard, seeing his
name in the papers wrote to him to ascer-
tain who he was. The mystery was then
solved he was found to be my long lost boy;
lost to me ten years. I had followed him
with my prayers, and thankful was I that
in his childhood I had taught him to be-
lieve in God and pray to Him. I address-
ed a letter to Fort Fetterman, and received
in return one of the most pathetic, penitent
and impressive letters I ever read; giving
me an account of his adventures and suffer-
ings, imploring in a most humble manner,
forgiveness for leaving me abruptly, and
saying "how dearly he had paid for his
waywardness and disobedience in leaving
so good a mother, who was always kind and
used every means to make him a good man."
The family and neighbors were excited and
moved to tears when the letter was read;
his photograph was sent, as natural as life;
a well-dressed gentleman, no look of an In-
dian about him, it is to us almost like the
resurrection of the dead. The reporters
write every thing in his praise, as a "first
class cabinet officer," "chief of the northern
scouts, braver than any Sioux," etc. His
ready brain and hands are said to be "prac-
tically invaluable." One thing which inter-
ests us very much is that he has found a
white girl among the Sioux, and from the
description given we are greatly in hopes it
is Bro. Thurstons child, stolen from Cache
Valley in 1867, and grand daughter of EId-
er Erastus Snow. My son described her in
his letter as a pale, delicate girl, apparently
about sixteen years old; the Indians are
kind to her, they keep her making bead-
work; she knows not a word of English."
He farther says, "I have twice tried to cap-
ture her, but did not succeed, I think I
shall yet accomplish it."
	I have written to Bro. Snow and received
in return his heartfelt acknowledgement;
promising his faith and prayers; and his ad-
vice to the young man was that he would
advise him to attempt nothing so hazard-
ous as her capture would be, only in the fear
of God, and by so doing, and acting with
great caution, he feels he would be sure of
success. I copied the letter and sent it to
my son. I feel to pray most earnestly that
such an event may transpire, and the dear
one, whoever she may be, restored to her
yearning parents if they still live, and most
certainly the complication of these peculiar
circumstances would constrain us to ac-
knowledge a Divine Providence in the
whole transaction, and to thank our Heaven-
ly Father for His all-preserving care. I ex-
pect my son soon to visit me.
						L. B. PRATT.
	Beaver, March 31st, 1877.


WE shall find difficulties in all great en-
terprises; if we are sure we have begun
them from God we may securely cast all
events upon his providence, which knows
how to dispose and how to end them.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	SENATOR EMERSON'S bill making women
eligible for school officers has been recon-
sidered and passed by the New York Sen-
ate.
	THE LEGISLATURE of Minnessota has
passed a bill allowing women to practice
law in all courts of the state. The vote in
the House stood sixty-three to thirty. In
the Senate twenty-six to six.

	OLIVER AMES died at his home in Eas-
ton, Mass., March 9. Mr. Ames was a lead-
ing man "in projecting and completing the
Union Pacific Railroad, and was its presi-
dent at the time of his death." He was
an upright business man and his death is a
a public loss.

	ONE OF the most novel occurrences of re-
cent date was the examination by a phren-
ologist of the head of the Rev. Mrs. Phebe
A. Hanaford. It having been decided that
she was not to occupy the pulpit in the
church where she had heretofore been sus-
tained; her adherents fixed upon this pecu-
liar plan for the establishment of her claims
to the right of the pulpit. Mr. Graham,
the phrenological expert, gave her a most
superior character in every respect, and
pronounced her superiorily qualified to hold
the position. Of course her opponents were
chagrined.

	THE BOSTON "Woman's Journal" gives a
short notice of a Woman's Temperance
meeting held in Fremont Temple, Mrs.
Mary A. Livermore presiding who made a
brief address. She was followed by other
well-known women who are laboring with
zeal and efficiency for Temperance. It was
very evident from the character of the ad-
dress, that women can speak for Temper-
ance. Why cannot they vote for it? Sim-
ply because they are women and have not
the ballot." How inconsistent it is that
women must endure all the trials of drnnken
husbands, brothers and fathers, yet they are
not in any public capacity whatever allowed
to act even for their own protection, against
their abuses. May God speed the day when
woman will be sufficiently strong by right
of law to maintain a position securely
against the abuse and misuse of power.
How is it possible in view of the many evils
which exist for any woman to fail to see
the want of woman's influence in the right
of the ballot.


BLUE STOCKINGS:—A charming club
which existed in the time of Johnson had
for its most prominent member Mr. Still-
ingfleet, who wore blue stockings, and was
so distinguished for the brilliancy and wit
of his conversation that when absent the
other members would exclaim, "we can do
nothing without blue stockings." In this
way the title of the club became established,
and the name drifted into a soubriquet for
all who affected literature. The earliest
mention of a "blue stocking" occurs in a
Greek comedy entitled "The Banquet of
Plutarch."


170		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meetings in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
grow more and more interesting, and it is
observable that the Junior societies are fast
gaining in knowledge and understanding
of spiritual gifts, blessings and attainments.
The meeting on Satuaday, March 17, was
crowded to overflowing; the Spirit of God
seemed poured out in rich abundance. The
sisters who addressed the meeting dwelt
most particularly upon home industries
among women. Among the speakers were
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselors
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs, E. Howard, and
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. S. Barney and
many in the congregation who bore faithful
testimonies of the Latter-day Work. Mrs.
E. A. Whitney sang a Song of Zion, and
gladdened every heart in the assembly.
	On Saturday, March 31, the General
Meeting was not quite so full as usnal,
owing to the inclemency of the weather.
Pres. Mrs. M. I. Horne addressed the sis-
ters upon the duties and obligations of
mothers which rested upon them in caring
for their families, spoke upon the preserva-
tion of health and the care of children; of
home industries, and of sustaining home
institutions, that the saints might have some
resources when Babylon should fall. Coun-
selor Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke upon the sub-
jects appropriate to the times, and exhort-
ed the sisters to greater diligence. Mrs.
E. S. Barney spoke about silk-culture, the
planting out of mulberry trees, the home
manufactures of Matthews & Co. Mrs. M.
E. Watmough, Mrs. W. East and others
spoke very earnestly and impressively on
the principles of the Latter-day work.
Mrs. E. B. Wells read a paragraph from the
Book of Doctrines and Covenants, expressed
herself in regard to some particular points
of the Gospel as understood and practised
by the saints, allnded to the great work be-
ing done by the Women of Utah, under
the several organizations which exlst.

			OGDEN, March 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Annual meeting of the Relief Socie-
ty, which should have been held Dec. 16,
1876, was postponed until March 13, owing
to sickness caused by the Small pox, which
made many sad and sorrowful hearts, and
I trust through it we have been learned
to place a greater reliance upon our Heav-
enly Father, "who doeth all things well,"
and may we as Latter-day Saints ever be
ready and willing to put our trust in God.
	At our meeting of March 13th, we were
much pleased and gratified with the pleas-
ure of having Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young with us. Meeting was con-
ducted by President Mrs. Jane S. Richards.
The Secretary read the minntes and finan-
cial report of the society.
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke in her usual unas-
suming manner, showing us that being of
the blood of Abraham, we were lawful
heirs to all the blessings promised to his
seed; that we had been gathered out from
the world, but what would it profit us
if we did not live up to what we had re-
ceived, as we were to be judged by our
works. She spoke of the many duties and
labors of the sisters, and exhorted us to be
true and faithful.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young said there were two
things she was proud of; "her religion and
her sisters," and warned us against a fault-
finding spirit; she said we have one God,

[Column 2]
one Savior, and work for one purpose, the
establishing of Zion.
	Mrs. J. S. Richards prayed our memories
might be strengthened that we might be
able to retain the good instructions we had
received and profit by them.
	Many of the sisters bore their testimony
to the Gospel work, and the spirit of God
was in our midst, and all felt blessed. The
good instructions cheered every heart. In
the evening we had a parlor entertainment
which was largely attended, and I trust
that Miss Snow and Mrs. Young were as
pleased with their visit as we were. Our
President Mrs. J. S. Richards has gone to
St. George to attend Conference.
				A. M. FRODSHAM, Sec'y.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I am happy to say that our Relief Society
is in a flourishing condition and a good
spirit prevails both in it, and also among
the people in general; there is a great im-
provement here among the young. The
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
is exceedingly prosperous, they hold their
meetings once in two weeks, and manifest
a deep interest in trying to aid and assist
in obeying the counsel of those that are
placed to preside over them. Our Young
Men's Mutual Improvement Association is
also doing well, and a spirit of improve-
ment prevails among the rising generation.
The winter has been very mild with but
very little snow, but we have had consider-
able sickness mostly among the children,
but with good care and the skillful treat-
ment of Mrs. Emeline Rich and others, and
the faith and prayers of the faithful but few
have died. Our Society takes deep interest
in saving up grain, we think it a subject of
vital importance, and although we live in a
climate that is subject to early frosts, and
many have to buy their breadstuff from
year to year and bring it from other settle-
ments, yet we feel a determination to do
what we can to obey the voice of the good
shepherd, knowing that the Lord will not
command His people to do anything that
they cannot perform. It is through obedi-
ence we realize the greatest blessings. Let
us be wise and do all that is required of us,
that we may be prepared for every coming
event, for we know that the nations of the
earth are ripening for destruction, and the
time is near at hand when God will pour
out His judgments upon them with famine
and pestilence. Not only do we hear of war
in foreign lands, but also in our boasted land
of liberty they are divided, and the time
is near at hand when he that will not take
up his sword against his neighbor must
needs flee to Zion for safety. Then let us
be wise and prepared for these things, that
we may be counted wise stewards and be
found with oil in our lamps and numbered
among the wise virgins.
	The EXPONENT is read with deep inter-
est, and is a great advantage to us in this
isolated place, and although we cannot have
the society of our sisters that are visiting
the different settlements, yet we feel the in-
fluence of their good counsel through the
EXPONENT; but we live in hopes when
spring dawns upon us we shall be favored
with a visit from some of our worthy sis-
ters from Salt Lake.
	Praying for your success in the good
work in which you are engaged, I remain
as ever your sister in the Gospel of peace.
			MRS. JULIA P. LINDSAY.
						Pres't.  R. S.

[Column 3]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 19th of March the good people of
Ephraim had a visit from Bro. W. G.
Young, and his kinsman, John Young Jun.
son of John Young Sen. deceased, also Elders
James Works of Manti, and Reuben Alred
of Spring City. A meeting was held at
the sisters Hall at two o'clock, p. m., when
Bro. W. G. Young addressed the assem-
bly and gave many valuable instructions
both to young and old. He particularly
cautioned the young sisters against going
away from home, said they had much bet-
ter stay at home and wear home-spun and
wooden shoes. Counseled the brethren of
whom a number were present, to be ener-
getic in giving to their dwellings a more
home-like appearance. He dwelt earnestly
upon teaching children to speak the truth
at all times. Bro. Works also addressed the
meeting, spoke in a very interesting and
instructive manner, both of the past and of
the future. Bishop Petersen made a few
closing remarks, bore testimony that the
sisters had been a great help to the Bish-
ops; also of their willingness in responding
to the calls made upon them at all times.
At the close of the meeting, Sister Peter-
se[-], our President, called for a vote of
thanks to be given to the brethren, which
met with a hearty response from all.
	With best wishes for your happiness and
the success of the EXPONENT, I am your
sister, Respectfully,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG,
								Sec'y.

			FAYETTE, SANPETE Co.,
						March 21, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a brief report of our Relief
Society which was organized Sept. 12, 1875
by President John Bartholomew, and Elder
John Metcalf, as follows: Mrs. Jane A.
Brown, president; Mrs. Eliza R. Bartholo-
mew, and Mrs. Polly Bartholomew coun-
selors; Mrs. Charlotle E. Miller, Secretary;
Mrs. Emma Bartholomew, Assistant Sec'y.;
Mrs. Amy Miller, Treasurer. There are
twenty-one members in the society and we
meet every first Thursday in the month to
give in our reports also to receive counsel
and instruction. We also have our sewing
meetings which are well atteuded and the
spirit of God prevails in our midst. We
have not much means at our command, but
still are in a prosperous condition, the Lord
blesses us in all our undertakings to serve
Him. He also blesses us with health and
strength, and willing hearts to perform all
that is required of us.
	We feel that the storing up of grain is of
the Lord, we have on hand quite a quantity
and will add to it as fast as we can. By the
courtesy of our President John Bartholo-
mew, our wheat is stored in his granary till
we can get one built for our own use.
There is a good rock meeting house in this
place for which we, (the R. S.), have made
matts and carpets, we also purchased a
stove and the window furniture, so you see
beloved sisters, that we can always find
something to do; I contemplate introduc-
ing the silk culture.
	Last January on the 22d, Sisters Williams
and Madsen paid us a visit which was a
real feast to us; our desire ever since then
has been for the sisters who have a large
experience to visit us whenever they can
make it convenient.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
			JANE A. BROWN, Pres't.
				AMY MILLER, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		171


[For the EXPONENT.
		A PROMISE.

Mine eyes! mine eyes! rain happy tears!
For ye shall in your mortal life
Look on your Saviour, on your God.
O blessed eyes! that live to-day—
Weep all your sorrow, shade away,
Ye shall look on the living Lord;
Mine eyes! mine eyes! look only up
To heaven's pure and sinless height.
O that no vision dark, profane,
Of stained earth, might intervene
To leave its blemish-touch upon
Their mirror gaze. O blessed eyes!
Weep happy tears! let morning's pure,
And silent night's cool, holy breath
Waft far away all earthly scenes—
For thou shalt look upon thy Christ.
O might it be, that when His eyes
Read through mine own, the heart below,
They shall be clear as pebbled stream
Through wh[-]ch we see the flow.

O blessed hands! and shall ye lie
In the pure clasp of Christ's thy Lord?
Thrill, blessed hands, with holy flame,
That Christ the pure, the victor King,
O're mortal trial, mortal sin,
Who unstained passed,
Alone and weak, this all we meet,
Shall look in mortal eyes and smile,
And bless thee by His own pure touch,
O blessed hands! be pure thy touch,

O happy feet! tread lightly on
O'er thorny paths, tho' weak and sore,
For ye shall tread the blessed earth,
That Christ's own feet shall press upon.
O feet, keep firm and pure thy ways,
On dust too sacred for e'en lips
To press, your steps shall fall.

Thrill eager heart and brain and ears,
Thrill, flesh and blood, and thirsting soul,
Which ne'er shall die,
For ye shall in His presence stand,
And see His face, and hear His voice.
Fear, mortal frame! lest in the light
Of His divine and beauteous eyes,
Which read all life, ye trembling fall,
And burn away beneath their glow.
				AUGUSTA J. CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
							[For the EXPONENT.
			GOOD WORKS.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD

						For as the light
	Not only serves to show, but renders us
	Mutually profitable: so our lives,
	In acts exemplary, not only win
	Ourselves good names, but do to others give
	Matter for virtuous deeds, by which we live. 
								CHAPMAN.

	How necessary are good works to the
complete life of a Saint of God; the per-
formance of good works is something to be
desired: if our part in life be ever so low-
ly, our means of doing good for others over
so limited, with what we have in our charge
we may devote ourselves to accomplishing
some good work. If we extend to another
the comfort of loving words in the hours
of sorrow, of doubt, or temptation, we are
even in this sweet ministration doing 
deeds worthy to be engraven in the herald-
ry of good works. There are various ways
and means, by which the truly good may
earn the right to the inheritance which ac-
crues from good works. To bestow the
bounties of the earth upon the poor, is not
the greatest means of doing good works, it
is perhaps the easiest; to give without
thought, of what has been liberally dis-
bursed to us, deserves very little credit; but
to devise ways and means whereby the
poor may provide for themselves, and be- 
come happy through a competence in rec-
ompense for labor, is far more praiseworthy.
It is to some almost an ambition to be ac-
counted generous in giving, but the pru-
dent person who calculates the real benefit

[Column 2]
of a fellow-creature, will, by the ingenuity
of his brain and the magnanimity of
thought, look farther than the giving for
immediate succor, and thus perhaps invent
that which will provide labor and conse-
quently its equivalent in food for the many.
	Good works are great works in the truest
signification of the term. From the small-
est beginnings have the mightiest conse-
quences resulted. A few tiny drops of wa-
ter gush forth from the mountain side,
there has just been sufficient latent force to
propel them from the surface, they trickle
down the slope and are replenished by rain
and moisture in their course, and other
diminutive streams flow into the narrow
bed they have formed, and unite their cur-
rents together, accumulating more and
more as their path is ever onward, until
they stretch away into the vast distance
and become powerful in and of themselves,
and the great commerce of cities is borne
on their waters; thus controlling in part
the riches and substance of masses of peo-
ple; and in the final end of their course
mingling the mighty river of water with
the great abyss which holds the nations in
awe by the force of its might. Thus may
the good works of the Saints united togeth-
er, carry them into the great ocean of pow-
er, that will control the elements of life,
and establish the stupendous institutions
which are necessary to concentrate the ef-
forts of all man and womankind into one
grand and sublime purpose, blending and
harmonizing all their various powers and
attributes to make one glorious whole,
where every part and portion will assist in
forming a connecting link in the chain
which will eventually bind together all who
love God and do good works.
	We find many passages in the Holy Scrip-
tures certifying of the good works and in-
fluence of women as well as men. We are
all capable of doing good works; it is the
power of good deeds that makes one’s life
sublime. It matters not how lowly our
sphere, we make it noble by the manner in
which we live. We cannot be too particu-
lar how we order our lives. One of the 
Apostles in former days, in his exhortation
to the saints, said, “And let us consider one
another, to provoke unto love, and to good
works; not forsaking the assembling of our-
selves together.” By meeting togeth-
er and interchanging thoughts and ideas
we become in possession of a wider knowl- 
edge of human nature, and of the attributes,
powers and gifts of different persons, and
are enabled to understand what the causes
are of various individual peculiarities, and
thus our views are enlarged, our sympa-
thies increased to do good to our fellow-
creatures, and we are better prepared to
invest ourselves with that mantle of charity
which will make us more capable of living
by the golden rule of our Saviour, “Do un-
to others etc.”
	Good works, however humble, as surely
shed a sweet fragrance through the whole
life of a person, as does the violet perfume
the entire atmosphere which surrounds it.
What is it that comforts us in looking back?
It is the recollection of good deeds. It
is that we have ministered all in our power
to the welfare and true happiness of oth-
ers. These reflections are a solace in every
lonely hour.
	Let us cultivate that love which is exalt-
ing in its nature, which tends to strength-
en every good purpose. Seek to develop in
ourselves, and call out in those around us
the strong affections, out of which spring
earnest faith, which incites to good works
and heroic courage in the pathway of right;

[Column 3]
a steadfastness to withstand all temptations
to wrong-doing; these will promote the
growth of sterling integrity of character
and nobility of soul, that will enable us to
endure all the vicissi udes of life, and yet
retain the true womanly characteristics
which men are so afraid will be lost in
maintaining public positions, and institu-
tions for the higher development of wo-
man’s capabilities.
	Woman need lose none of her grace and
sweetness by making herself useful outside
the home circle, if she be sufficiently forti-
fied within. It will be too antagonistic to
her sensitive nature, to overstep the neces-
sary bounds, and go farther than duty 
prompts, for love of notoriety.
	The theory very generally conceded
places woman upon an equal footing with
man, that is, if man is stronger physically 
and mentally, woman has the advantage in
being morally and spiritually man's su-
perior.
	I had no idea of arguing equality of sex
in this article, but only to advocate good
works among women. This seems to be
an era of woman’s works, and everywhere
woman seems awakening to an interest in
all the prevailing subjects of the times. It
has been said by inspired men, that “there
will be more women saved than men,” and
their good works will be the means of their
salvation. Good works, according to the
Scriptures, is the object of our creation.
"For we are his workmanship created in
Christ Jesus unto good Works."
	Salt Lake City, April 9, 1877.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS.

	Association Hall, Fifteenth and Chestnut
streets, was thronged on the 15th of March,
by a brilliant and interested audience, it be-
ing the Twenty-fifth Annual Commence-
ment of the Women's Medical College of
Pennsylvania.
	The degrees of M. D. were conferred by
the President, T. Morris Perot, upon the
following graduates:
	Franes N. Baker, Martha M. De Graw,
Elizabeth W. Smith, and Mary A. Young,
from Pennsylvania; Josephine G. Davis,
and Henrietta B. Woolston, of New Jersey;
Caroline S. Pease and Ella M. Whitaker, of
New York, Cornelia L. Boardman, of Mass-
achusetts; Elizabeth E. L. Forbes, of Dela-
ware; Elizabeth A. Follansbee, of Califor-
nia; Romania B. Pratt, of Utah; Elvira
Bainfer and Elizabeth T. Richards of Mich-
igan, and H. Josephine Varnum, of Maine.
	The spring course of 1877 commenced on
Monday, March 19, and will continue ten
weeks. Its chief purpose is to procure for
the students of the Women's Medical Col-
lege of Pennsylvania, all the advantages
of those improved methods of study in-
troduced into medical institutions in this
country the last few years. The essential
features of these are : First, a progressive
course of study; second, an increased
amount of demonstrative teaching, with
practical work on the part of the students.
—Woman's Words.


EARLY IN the month of May the cere-
mony of unveiling the statue of Fitz
Green Halleck will take place in Central
Park, New York. Whittier will give a
poem, and William Gullen Bryant will de-
liver an address. This statue is the first
ever raised to an American poet, and will
be near those of Shakespeare and Walter
Scott.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1877.


"IN SEASON AND OUT OF SEASON."

	This passage of Scripture will apply to the
work now laying before women to accomplish,
and they will find that it will not do to stand
still and wait for some one else to do, but
everywhere be earnest in the work before
them. It has been often remarked that there
is too much talking among women, but in the
present day there seems to be a necessity for
it. "To do more and talk less," is another fav-
orite phrase of many, but to add works to
preaching is better. Women have many things
to do now-a-days, and it is positively neces-
sary to do a vast amount of talking, as well as
brain, and head work. Executive ability is in
good demand, but there is hardly a premium
for it.
	Talk to the purpose is perhaps applicable,
but talking of some sort has evidently got to
be done; and as men have not time to do all the
talking, women must do some of it. "In sea-
son and out of season, in the house and by the
way," in every place where good can be accom-
plished, women should be willing to bring in-
to requisition all the talents they po[-]sess to
bring about the good results for which they are
laboring. It will not do to be too sensitive to
criticism; it is very evident there is some real
work accomplished by women or the public
would not be making such a noise about the
woman cause. Wherever any material good
is effected there is always opposition. The
work now being done among women is some-
thing really wonderful, and while the real ben-
efit is apparent there is little need to care for
what "Madame Grandy" says. Above all wo-
men on the earth the Latterday-Saints should
be earnest and zealous, in season and out of
season, they have the greatest purpose in la-
boring, To lay a sure foundation for them-
selves and children, that they may not be left
without resources when the judgments of God
shall come upon the nations and when Baby-
lon shall fall.
	There is no danger of saying or doing too
much in a good cause, started in the right di-
rection. The women of Utah are moving for-
ward to establish and sustain every depart-
ment of home industry, manufacture and im-
provement, that is, or can be made practicable
for women. They not only talk, but work, and
add faith to works; and may God also add His
blessing to every earnest endeavor.
					[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
	GENERAL CONFERENCE AT ST.
				GEORGE
	This year a new epoch seems to have
opened in the history of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and they have
held their General Conference in a Temple
built and consecrated to God and the adminis-
trations of the holy priesthood upon the earth.
The two stands opposite each other, were oc-
cupied by those bearing the priesthood of the
order of Melchizedec and Aaron. In the first
stand sat President Brigham Young, his coun-
selors and the brethren of the Twelve and
some others. In the opposite one Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter and some other Bishops. Presi-
dent B; Young opened the conference by giv-
ing out the hymn. President D. H. Wells of-
fered the dedicatory prayer, the choir then
sang, "High on the mountain top a banner is
unfurled." The Conference was then address-
ed by Elder George Q. Cannon and President
Brigham Young. The combined choir sang
"And it shall come to pass in the last days."
	In the afternoon of the first day Elder Jos-
eph F. Smith, and President John W. Young
addressed the congregation, after which Pres-
ident Brigham Young said he desired to preach
in terms not long but loud. In all our deal we
should do unto others as we would have oth-
ers do unto us. The Choir sang "Oh praise the
Lord all ye nations."
	The second day of Conference in the morn-
ing Elder C. C. Rich and Elder Wilford Wood-
ruff addressed the people and Elder George Q.
Cannon read a long list of names of mission-
aries appointed to different localities. Some to
Europe, some to the United States and some to
Arizona, after which he made a few remarks
and President Brigham Young said to the
Conference, that the purer the Latter-day
Saints were, the greater would be the rage of
the wicked but the less would be their power
to persecute. The choir sang, "As the hart
panteth after the water brooks."
	In the afternoon of the second day of Con-
ference, after the usual regular exercises, Eld-
er George Q. Cannon read another list of
names of missionaries who were called to pro-
claim the Gospel in different parts of the world
and fourteen Elders whose mission it was to
study the Spanish language.
	It was also moved, seconded and unanimous-
ly carried that the Relief Societies throughout
the Church take a mission to raise silk and do
all in their power to clothe themselves and
their families.

[Column 2]
	Elder Cannon also presented the authorities
of the Church who were unanimously sus-
tained by vote of the Conference. Elder Frank-
lin D. Richards, and Elder Erastus Snow oc-
cupied the afternoon, at the close the choir
sang "Behold O God, our shield and look upon
the face of thine anointed."
	Sunday morning third day of Conference,
Elder Brigham Young Jr., and Elder John
Taylor addressed the congregation. President
Brigham Young spoke to the Conference on
the subject of union. He announced that the
seats of the congregation would be reve[-]sed
and Bishop Edward Hunter would administer
the sacrament. Elder George Q. Cannon pre-
sented the names of some more missionaries.
Sunday afternoon Bishop Edward Hunter first
addressed the Conference, he was followed by
Bishop Edwin D. Wooley; then President
Brigham Young said "we will adjourn this
Conference from this house to the New Taber-
nacle in Salt Lake City, commencing at 10
o'clock in the morning of October sixth next."
	The choir sung "How beautiful upon the
mountains," the congregation then arose and
sung, "The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction pronounced by President Brigham
Young asking the blessing of God upon all
there assembled, and the good and honest in
heart all over the earth; that the spirit of God
might rest down upon the Temple, that an-
gels might visit it, and all who ministered
there for the living and the dead might feel
the holy influence of the power of God.


TWO DAYS MEETING AT ST.
GEORGE.

	Previous to the General Conference a two-
days meeting was held according to appoint-
ment in the St. George Temple. President
Brigham Young, and his Counselors, eleven of


the Quorum of the Twelve, presiding Bishop,
Edward Hunter, and many High Priests, El-
ders and Bishops, and a large congregation of
the saints were there assembled to worship
God in a Temple erected to His Most Holy
Name.
	The spirit of the Lord was poured out upon
them in rich abundance, and the sermons de-
livered upon that occasion were replete with
wise instructions and counsel, suited to the
condition of the people at the present day, and
great power rested upon those who spoke and
prayed, and good order prevailed. Elder J. T.
D. McAllister was elected president of St.
George Stake of Zion by unanimous vote.
The saints in that country have had much to
endure, but the Lord is blessing them above
others, in that they have a Temple completed
into which they may enter to worship God,
and call upon Him, and where they can minis-
ter for the living and the dead.
	We are indebted to the "Deseret News" for
information in regard to these meetings, and
the Conference at St. George.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received the pamphlet published
by A. M. Musser, and O. F. Whitney, in Col-
umbia, Pa. on Mormonism and particularly
explaining the principle of Plural Marriage.
We would recommend it as valuable to the
reading public of Utah as it brings many good,
and wholesome arguments in favor of that pe-
culiar institution of Marriage.
	MRS. M. E. Randall had a juvenile enter-
tainment in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
Thursday and Friday evenings called The
Floral and Little Old Woman's Concert, Her
pupils who were all quite young did credit to
themselves and their training. The princi-
pal feature was the Zephyrs, which consisted
of thirty pupils, all at once chanting forth the
Lord's prayer.
	WE ARE pleased to be able to announce to
the public that the Treatise on Silk Raising is
now ready for sale. It gives those who desire
instructions, from the formation of the eggs,
through all the various stages to the
spinning of cocoons. It describes minutely
all the particulars, and the information has
been collected from the most reliable sources,
and practical experience of persons engaged in
sericulture. The Deseret Silk Association have
compiled this pamphlet very carefully for the
benefit of those who are uninformed in these
matters, and every item has been carefully ar-
ranged. We recommend it as invaluable, for
it contains the real and positive facts briefly
stated and adapted for use. All Relief So-
cieties should supply themselves with a suffi-
cient number, as they now have the special
mission of silk-raising by unanimous vote of
the General Conference. The pamphlets on
Silk Culture are for sale at the Woman's Com-
mission House. price ten cents each.
	It is now clearly demonstated that a superior
quality of silk can be made of the elements of
Utah. We were shown specimens of the most
excellent quality and colors of skein and floss


[Column 1]

silk, spun and colored by Miss Rockwood of
this city. Mrs. Robinson of Farmington is
now weaving very elegant dress silk. The
loom for weaving ribbons is nearly completed
at Bountiful and Mrs. Wadoup of that place
understands the weaving of ribbons in the
hand loom. There are many ribbon-weavers
here from Europe but most of them have been
accustomed to the machinery run by steam,
which has not yet been introduced here.
	Mrs. Susan Stringam and Miss M. A. Rock-
wood, 13 Ward are prepared to take pupils and
teach them the art of reeling the silk from the
cocoons, at $l0,00 apiece. Persons who are in-
tending to commence raising silk, would do
well to take advantage of this oppprtunity.
	AMONG THE home manufactures, we are
pleased to announce many useful chemical ar-
ticles for domestic use by R. Matthews & Co.
Every article used by them in manufacturing,
is subjected to chemical examination by Prof.
J. L. Barfoot and prepared under his direction.
They have the Bath Sand Tablet which we can
recommend as cleansing, and can be used with-
out injuring the most sensitive skin. Baby,
Toilet and Shaving soap of superior qualities,
also scouring-soap for woodwork and all house-
hold purposes. They also manufacture the Es-
sence of Jamaca Ginger and other essences,
which have been tested by many as equal
to any manufactured elsewhere. Writing fluid,
and boot-blacking of excellent quality and free
from adulterations, also waterproof paste which
by applying to boots and shoes, wet feet
may be prevented and render the leather more
pliable and endurable.
	It is to the best interest of the Latter-day
Saints to patronize all home manufactures.
	We would recommend the Relief Societies
to form Clubs and send to the Woman's Com-
mission House of this city, and get the above
articles at wholesale rates.
	THE WOMAN'S Commission House, estab-
lished in this city under the auspices of the
Relief Society, and called the Relief Society
Woman's Mercantile Association, is now doing
business in all the departments of dry goods
home productions. This enterprise has requir-
ed a great amount of indomitable energy and
perseverance on the part of those who have
been active and efficient workers in the cause;
and the sisters of the Relief Society through-
out the entire city and its vicinity should not
forget to whom they are indebted for the suc-
cess of the institution thus far. It is still in
its infancy, scarcely six months since it was
established, and it needs the practical suoport
of the people, to ensure its future success. We
sincerely hope the presidents and officers of
Relief Societies will bear in mind that this in-
stitution represents their interests; and do
whatever is in their power to sustain it, and
those who devote their time solely for the pub-
lic good without renumeration. Complaints
have been made by women in times past, that
there was no place where home made work
could be offered for sale, and fairly represented;
now let the sisters be earnest in sustaining a
place where all have equal opportunity to dis-
pose of such articles.
	SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret Silk Asso-
ciation met persuant to adjournment Friday,
Apr. 2, at the Firemen's Hall.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler in the chair.
	Mr. P. A- Schettler said the season was fast
approaching for commencing to raise silk
worms, and by present appearances we would
have to begin much earlier this season than
usual, as the trees were already budding out.
He thought the interest in silk culture was

[Column 2]

progressing, as there were a great many mak-
ing inquiries and planting out trees. He had
had confidence that silk could be raised here
for many years, and now it was demonstrated
beyond a doubt, that it not only could be raised
here, but could be manufactured. He strongly
urged that the people plant out trees as that
was one of the most essential points. He said
our prospects were good for getting machinery
for spinning and twisting, and reported that
the Treatise on silk raising was ready and could
be got by applying at the Woman's Store, Old
Constitution Buildings, or of the Secretary,
second house east of Fireman's Hall. They
are ten cents per copy.
	Mr. Smith, of Bountiful, said he advised all
that could to plant out trees and cuttings. The
time would come when the people would wish
that they had planted out mulberry trees.
Silk raising and manufacture would yet form
one of the greatest sources of wealth to this
community and give many people employ-
ment. We ought to encourage our children
in it and by so doing we would be teaching
them something useful, instead of their being
left to wander about the streets in idleness.
He had planted out from five to six hundred
cuttings.
	Mrs. White of Mill Creek, said that her
daughter was learning to reel silk. She had
planted out a quantity of cuttings and was
going to plant out some trees.
	Mrs. Morgan of Mill Creek, was going to try
and raise some silk worms this season.
	Very interesting and encouraging remarks
were made by Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Higgs, Mrs.
Hardy and others, and all felt encouraged to
do their parts.
	Mr. Schettler said that to those who had
children who wished to try and raise some
worms he would give some eggs in small quan-
tities.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
May at this place, at 3 p. m.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		173


For the EXPONENT.
	TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

BELOVED SISTERS:
	I wish to call your attention to the mission
given to all Branches of the Relief Society by
the General Conference held in the Temple in
St. George; which mission is, THE RAISING OF
SILK. This important branch of Home Indus-
try has been long neglected, although through
the efforts of a few, sufficient proof has been
given of the practicability of its success.
	Millions of additional trees should be pro-
duced. Now is the time for setting cuttings
which should be attended to immediately, to
take advantage of this year's growth. What
the sisters cannot do with their own hands,
they may bring to pass as Solomon "built the
Temple."
					More anon.
	Your fellow-laborer in the great cause—the
establishment of Zion.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, April 10, 1877.


I WOULD say then, most empthatically,
"Bring forward the young woman." The
next score of years is in her hands, and in
ours only as we lift up hers.  For us it is
now the cheerful endurance of patient pil-
grimage; for the young woman it is the
struggle, step by step, for new footholds.
The future of Woman is with her, and not
with us, whose eastward falling shadows
are so rapidly lengthening.
			—Prof. Maria Mitchell.


BITTER SWEETNESS.

		"If none were sick and none were sad,
		What service could we render?
		I think if we were always glad,
		We scarcely could be tender;
		Did our beloved never need
		Our patient ministration,
		Earth would grow cold and miss indeed
		Its sweetest consolation,
		If sorrow never claimed our heart,
		And every wish was granted
		Patience would die and hope depart,
		Life would be disenchanted."

	This verse, one among many that we
find without name to indicate ownership,
struck my attention as containing a senti-
ment worthy of study and reflection to
those who have not yet learned the art of
extracting sweetness from the bitter expe-
riences of life, who have not learned to
look upon evil as a principle that is neces-
sary to happiness, and yet we all know that
the tenderest and most beautiful sentiments
of the human heart would be dormant and
unknown were they not created and nur-
tured by the hand of sorrow.
	We cannot sympathize where there is
nothing but joy, we cannot be gratified
when we do not need the patient ministra-
tion that springs from pity and forbearing
love.
	A little child leaves its mother's knee
and wanders out into the garden, a new
world to the wondering infant, everything
may be bright and beautiful, and in its joy-
ous playfulness and unrestrained frolic
mother is soon forgotten, but even while it
plays and gambols, filled with all the joy its
little heart can hold, the fair fingers are
stained, the white garments become soiled,
and then perchance the little foot strikes
some hidden rock, and there is pain, the
first thought, the first cry is for mother, a
few sweet words of sympathy, or a caress,
and in her arms the tired infant sleeps, per-
haps sobs for awhile although sheltered and
and safe, and cleansed from the impurities
of its heedless wanderings; what was it
that drove the child to its surest, never-fail-
ing refuge?—pain, and too often we fail to
remember and draw near to our Creator un-
til smitten as the little child, with a need
of care that earth has failed to give, and a
pain beyond the power of mortal to touch;
it is then that our higher nature rises up
and we reach our hearts and hands heaven-
ward, with thanks for the pain and evil that
has brought us nearer that divine love and
mercy that is ever reaching down to earth,
and searching for the stricken and down-
cast children of sorrow, and even as it nev-
er fails to comfort the hearts, and uphold
the hands stretched out for aid, so should
our hearts respond to every call for sympa-
thy and care and our hearts bestow bless-
ings, for in blessing we are blest, and in
comforting we are comforted.
							MILICENT.


THE title of Duke was introduced into
England by Edward III, but was limited to
princes of the blood royal until the reign of
Edward VI. The title became oxtinct un.
der Queen Elizabeth in 1572, but James I.
revived it again. A duke may qualify.
eight chaplains, and a duchess two.


Don't look out of railroad car windows
when they are open. The habit is exceed-
ingly injurious to the eyes, as the sharp
draft of air caused by rapid motion, badly
affects the optic nerve. Several cases of
total blindness have recently occurred in
England from this cause.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FROM LANCASTER CITY, PA.
 It will not be my lot to record the adven-
tures of a Sinbad, a Gulliver, a Goldsmith,
nor a Humboldt; for though in a strange
country, to me, and possessed of one of
those far reaching imaginations with which
Shakespeare invests "lunatics, lovers and
poets," my conscience is not so elastic, nor
the field of observation so extraordinary, as
to permit me to startle you either by fact
or fiction. I may however tell a little of
what I see and hear during my travels, and
the relation will serve to inform the minds
of those who have never been in this sec-
tion of our country, and to refresh the
memories of all who have seen for them-
selves. In the city of Lancaster stands a
monument, a noble and imposing column of
R. I. granite, inscribed with the names of
the principal battles fought during the Re-
bellion, and surmounted by an image of the
goddess of liberty, holding a shield and a
drawn sword; it stands on a foundation
about two feet high, and at each of the four
corners is placed on a pedestal a statue, rep-
resenting respectively, the navy, infantry,
cavalry and artillery. The whole is sur-
rounded by an iron picket fence, and com-
memorates the achievements of the soldiers
of Pennsylvania during the late war.
	In the Woodward Hill Cemetery, also
sleeps the mortal remains of James Buchan-
an, the 15th President of the United States.
The man who would have exterminated a
whole people, is himself the inmate  of a
narrow chamber in the halls of death, while
that same people under the same leader-
ship as then, have grown still greater, and
stand to-day as an indisputable assurance
to all, that truth and justice will eventually
triumph in spite of anything on earth.
Here also is the tomb of Thaddeus Stevens,
the great Equal Rights man, buried in a
cemetery founded by Martin Shriener. On
his tomb is the following inscription: “I re-
pose in this quiet, secluded spot, not from
any natural preference for solitude, but find-
ing other cemeteries limited as to race, by
charter rules, I have chosen this that I
might illustrate in my death, the principles
which I advocated through a long life--
Equality of man before his Creator.” These
men's characters furnish us a contrast in
life and death, which is a good lesson on
human nature.
	This city numbers in population 27,000,
and presents on the main streets a brisk and
business like appearance; the streets and
alleys, as is common in the east, are rather
contracted, but are relieved by many fine
buildings which adorn each side and attract
the attention of all who admire architec-
ture.
 The penitentiary awoke my interest, not
from any sympathy I feel for places of that
character, but from the peculiar and antique
design on which it is built. Its ponderous
piles of masonry, castellated front, towers
and turrets, perforated with narrow iron
barred windows, forcibly suggest the me-
daeval and lance breaing ages of the past,
and the strongholds of the notorious Rob-
ber Counts of Germany.
 Pennsylvania, or this portion of it, in the
summer time, unquestionably, presents a
beautiful picture; the nature of the coun-
try, with its farms, orchards, woods, hills,
and rustic byways and turnpikes, show
that the milder seasons will clothe it in pic-
turesque loveliness and grandeur.
 In this county is found the Gap Nickel
Mine, the only one of that kind being
worked in the United States.
 Luzerne Co. differs considerably from
this region. There are located the great
coal mines which, with the iron ones, con-
tribute principally to the wealth of the
State, and to the needs of the surrounding
country. As is quite natural, everything
there is of a less romantic order, and more
crude and matter of fact; though the Lack-
awanna Valley, with the broad Susquehanna
sweeping through it, under a summer sky,
might vie with the older and more fertile
display of scenery.
 Nearly all the laboring classes are miners,
and many, from the frequent periods of
compulsory idleness, consequent to the fluc-
tuations of the market, the low wages, and
high prices of provisions, are reduced to the
depths of poverty.
 The mines and railroads are controlled by
the rich, who scruple not to use the power
in their hands, often, for the oppression of
the poor.
 It is a consolation to know that God
is no respecter of persons, and that the
time is close at hand when all will be
judged, when "many that are first shall be
last, and the last shall be first."
I heard it stated that the coal indications
in Luzerne Co. showed enough of that arti-
cle to last a population of 50,000,000–60,000
years. It is the anthracite quality, and
much superior to that found in Utah.
 A pleasing characteristic of the society in
the country towns, is that freedom and
courtesy to strangers, so common in the
west. Every one you meet salutes you
with a pleasant good morning, or, good eve-
ning, though you may never have met be-
fore. The major portion of this communi-
ty is of German birth or descent; they are,
as a rule, good, reliable citizens, and vote
the Republican ticket. The memory of
Gen. Lee's raids, during the war, has not
entirely died away.
	No more at present,
			Yours respectfully,
							O. F. W.


[Column 1]

LUCRETIA MOTT.

	Mrs. Mott has been spoken of as a
leading woman of the first century of the
Republic, but to our mind she is a leading
woman of the second, and of all the centur-
ies that are to follow. It is hard to say
where the influence of any person truly
great and good begins or ends. But it is
absolutely certain that long after younger
hands have grasped the fallen mantle, the
blessed influence which has been wrought
out in a noble life of self-abnegation, must
and does continue, through all time.
	LUCRETIA MOTT, the woman philanthrop-
ist, humanitarian, and Quaker preacher,
was born in the Island of Nantucket, Jan-
uary 3, 1793. Descended from the Cof-
fins and Macys on her father's side, and
of the Folgers on the mothe's, and through
them related to Dr. Franklin, she comes of
honorable and renowned ancestry.
	She said of herself that "she was brought
up to be useful in the family." In 1804
Mrs. Mott removed to Boston and studied
in the public and private schools there, and
subsequently she studied in the Friends
boarding-school in Duchess County, N. Y.
—becoming a teacher there when fifteen.
At eighteen, she married James Mott of
New York; removing to Philadelphia
where she has since resided, happy in the 
love, affection, and reverence of her daugh-
ter and son-in-law and their children. Her
husband died full of years and honors, in
1868.
	Regarding the work to which she has no-
bly devoted her life, Mrs. Mott has placed

[Column 2]

on record the following: "The unequal
condition of woman in society early im-
pressed my mind. Learning while at
school that the charge for the education of
girls was the same as that of boys, and
when they became teachers women received
but half as much as men for their services,
the injustice was so apparent that I resolved
to claim for myself all that an impartial
Creator had bestowed. At twenty-five,
surrounded by a little family and many
cares, I felt called to, and engaged in, the
ministry—receiving every encouragement.
Temperance Reform early engaged my at-
tention. The oppression of the working
classes by existing monopolies, and the low-
ness of wages, and I have attended many
meetings and heard their appeals with com-
passion, and a great desire for a radical
change in the system that makes the rich,
richer, and the poor poorer. The various
associations and communities tending to
a greater equality of condition have had
from me hearty God-speed." This noble
utterance none can doubt.
	To her labor in the cause of reform is
more attributable the uplifting of the
down-trodden and oppressed everywhere,
than to any other living woman.
	We visited Mrs. Mott in her own home
one day last week. The season of the year
was less propitious than it would have been
later—but we could easily understand how
charming and harmonious its associations
must be. The house, highly characteristic
of Quaker simplicity, has been modernized,
the new corresponding with the old. She
received us very kindly in the large com-
fortably furnished parlor, and after some
few minutes conversation with herself and
daughter, she invited us into her cosy lit-
tle sitting-room, sacred to her hours of read-
ing and writing and working. For the
busy hands and wonderful brain are never
idle. Indeed, in the matter of work this
venerable and beloved woman commends
by her example the lesson of industry to
every young girl who would achieve honor
and distinction. Wood fires are used in
the house which she frequently builds from
choice, deeming no occupation too humble
that is greatly done. Though at such an
advanced age, it must not be thought that
our venerable friend takes no interest in the
question of the day. Quite the contrary. Of
President Hayes' policy as now understood,
and of himself personally, she spoke with
much approbation—deprecating all efforts
to keep alive sectional feelings. We took
leave of her with much regret—tempered
with the fact that when the roses bloom
we hope to visit her again. Tender in
heart, guileless in soul, brilliant in intellect,
this wonderful woman still remains to us—
coming regularly into the city to Wednes-
day Meetings.
	Though now in her eighty-fifth year, she
is as keen of comprehension, as strong men-
tally, as in her earlier working days, the
central thought of an appreciative circle.
	Martha Coffin Wright, her sister who is
also known as a philanthropist and reform-
er, says of her: "The striking traits of Lu-
cretia's character are remarkable energy
that defies even time, unswerving conscien-
tiousness, and all those characteristics that
are summed up in the few words, "Love to
man and love to God. Mrs. Soule says:
"Birth made Victoria a queen, but her own
pure, sweet life makes Lucretia Mott a
queen—queen of a realm on which the sun
never sets—the realm of humanity. if ev-
er any woman ever 'inherited the earth' it
is this blessed Quaker woman." The treat-
ment received by the delegates to the con-


vention in 1840, in London, declared Mrs.
Mott, "brought the woman question more
into view, and an increase of interest in the
subject was the result. In this work I have
engaged heart and hand, as my labors,
travels, and public discourses evince. The
misrepresentation, ridicule and abuse heap-
ed upon this, as well as other reforms, do
not in the least deter me from my duty.
To those whose name is cast out as evil for
the truth's sake, it is a small thing to be
judged of man's judgment."—Woman's
Words.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		175


PREJUDICE.

	There is every day ample opportunity to 
observe the manifold evils arising from
prejudice. How often do some of us allow
ourselves to speak evil or slanderous things
of those who have proved themselves
friends in the truest sense. We are too will-
ing to believe evil of our fellow beings; and
by hearing one who is bitter against anoth-
other, and has allowed prejudice to mis-
lead judgment, slander them, we fancy the
persons to be really as they were represent-
ed, and unfit associates for us, willing to be-
lieve without trying to find out the real
truth for ourselves; thus often wrongfully
prejudiced, keeping at a distance those
who are misrepresented, and committing a
grievous sin before God who has said
"judge not lest ye be judged;" How very
careful we should be never to say a word to
injure the character of any person. We
may do more harm in a moment by utter-
ing something which in reality has no
foundation, than we can atone for in a life
time. A thorough investigation should be
gone through before we are prepared to
give our opinion, and then we should be
careful in regard to speaking upon any prin-
ciple; no matter how objectionable others
may find it, we are not capable of declaring
its errors simply because others do not ad-
mire it, or cannot comprehend it. Who
have been the persecutors of the Latter-day
Saints? Not those who with unbiased
minds have studied the principles revealed
in our holy religion; if unwilling to believe,
at least they would cease to try to injure.
Our real enemies are those who through
prejudice at first have allowed their hearts
to become embittered, and perhaps aided by
a wicked disposition they were willing to
rush blindfold, not caring how much in-
justice was done by their words and acts.
While the people of the world are filled with
prejudice, should not we as saints strive to
overcome this narrow mindedness. I have
heard the remark that in days gone by,
every man was called a gentleman until
proved a rogue, but now-a-days it would
seem as if all were considered rogues until
proved to be gentlemen. We should try to
be ever just. We had better by far say
more good than deserved, than more evil
than is true. Let us guard our own
tongues, discipline our own thoughts, see
that our hearts are free from impurity, and
we will have no time to encourage evil or
listen to slander.
					MARY STUART.
	Hyde Park, March 14, 1877.


R. S. RREPORT.

EDITOR EXPONENT;
	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of the 16th ward, S. L. City, held
their third Annual Meeting Jan. 24, 1877.
Miss E. R. Suow, Mrs. P Woodruff, Mrs.


B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs.
M. P. Young addressed the meeting, most
of them remarked that they had met with
us at our organization, and previous annu-
al meetings, and noticed the progress the
young ladies had made; spoke upon the
principles of Celestial Marriage, Word of
Wisdom, and Retrenchment and urged up-
on the young ladies the necessity of trying
to bring about a reform among their asso-
ciates and of shunning the company of in-
temperate, profligate men; spoke of the
evils of round dancing, and extrava-
gance in dress; gave much good and wise
counsel and instruction and bore faithful
testimonies to the work of God.
	Bishop F. Kesler remarked he was glad
the Bishops had helps, it was good to have
these Associations, for missionaries are
needed at home. Said we should do all we
could to stem the downward course of the
youth, and should be careful in the teaching
of our children. Alluded to the calamities
that are coming on the earth, and the rev-
elations of God concerning the redemption
of the living and the dead; and how to pu-
rify our tabernacles by shunning those
things which are forbidden. Said that Sis-
ter Snow and others were doing a good
work and they would have their reward;
gave other valuable instructions and prayed
God to bless both young and old in the name
of Jesus.
	President Miss Mary Williams then invi-
ted all the young ladies present who were
not members to meet with us and join our
society. Our meetings are held every Tues-
day at one o'clock.
	Meeting then adjourned, after which all
the officers and members, and the visitors
named above, the officers of the Relief So-
ciety, and some others, repaired to the res-
idence of Mrs. M. J. Thompson where a ta-
ble was spread with refreshments. Miss E.
R. Snow then blessed the Young Ladies
Association of this Ward and prayed that
they might prosper.
	Wishing prosperity to the Woman's pa-
per, and all other enterprises for the good
of Zion; we subscribe ourselves, your sis-
ters.
	MARY WILLIAMS, Pres't.
	EMILY S. ELLSMORE, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S WISDOM AND VIRTUE.

 Mr. Ruskin, in a recent lecture, thus
spoke of woman, as illustrated by the hero-
ines of Shakespeare:
   “The catastrophe of every play is caused
always by the folly or fault of man; the re-
demption, if there be any, is by the wis-
dom and virtue of a woman, and failing
that, there is none. The catastrophe of
King Lear is owing to his own want of
judgment, his impatient vanity, his misun-
derstanding of his children; the virtue of
his one true daughter would have saved
him from all the injuries of the others, if
he had not cast her away from him; as it is,
she all but saves him.
  “Of Othello, I need not trace the tale;
nor the one weakness of his so mighty
love; nor the inferiority of his perceptive
intellect to that even of the second woman
character in the play, the Emilia who dies
in wild testimony against his error: 'Oh,
murderous coxcomb! What should such a
fool do with so good a wife?' In Romeo
and Juliet, the wise and entirely brave
stratagem of the wife is brought to ruinous
issue by the reckless impatience of her hus-
band. In 'Winter's Tale,' and 'Cymbeline,’
the happiness and existence of two princely
households lost through long years, and


imperiled to the death by the folly and ob-
stinacy of the husbands, and redeemed at
last by the queenly patience and wisdom of
the wives. In Measure for Measure,' the
injustice of the judges, and the corrupt
cowardice of the brother, are opposed to
the victorious truth and adamantine purity
of a woman.
	In 'Coriolanus,' the mothers' counsel act-
ed upon in time, would have saved her son
from all evil; his momentary forgetfulness
of it is his ruin; her prayer, at last granted,
saves him—not indeed, from death, but
from the curse of living, as the destroyer
of his country. And what shall I say of
Julia, constant against the fickleness of a
lover, who is a mere wicked child; of He-
lena, against the petulance and insult of a
careless youth; of the patience of Hero,
the passion of Beatrice, and the calmly devo-
ted wisdom of the "unlessoned girl,' who ap-
pears among the helplessness, the blindness,
and the vindicitive passions of men, as a
gentle angel, to save merely by her pres-
ence, and defeat the worst intensities of
crime by her smile?
	Observe, further, among all the principal
figures in Shakespeare's plays, there is only
one weak woman—Ophelia; and it is be-
cause she fails Hamlet at the critical mo-
ment, and is not and cannot in her nature
be, a guide to him when he needs her most;
from that all the bitter catastrophe follows.
Finally, though there are three wicked wo-
men among the principal figures—Lady
Macbeth, Regan, and Goneril, they are left
at once to be frightful exceptions to the or-
dinary laws of life; fatal in their influence
also in proportion to the power for good
which they have abandoned. Such, in
broad light, is Shakespeare's testimony to
the position and character of woman in hu-
man life. He represents them as infallibly
faithful and wise counselors, incorruptibly
just and pure examples—strong always to
sanctify, even when they cannot save."—
Pulpit of the Day.


WHY EDITORS DO NOT COMMIT 
				SUICIDE.

 The New York correspondent of The
Cincinnati Gazette, in a recent letter says:
 While speaking of suicides as a feature
in human experience, I am led to the re-
markable fact that editorial life exhibits so
general an exception.  While we have had
instances of self-inflicted death among law-
yers, bankers and mechanics, such a case
has not occurred among the journalists in 
this city.  One may reasonably inquire
what is the cause of this exception?  They
labor intensely, and are generally ill-paid,
and they have a full share of life's hard-
ships, which they endure until their change
comes in the course of nature.  I can give
no other reason for this except that the pro-
fession is constantly busy, and works with
an approval of conscience, since it works
for public weal.  Editors, in fact, are so oc-
cupied with a range of thought embracing
puclic interest that they have little time to
think about themselves.  Walter Scott
made the remark after he had reached
bankruptcy that nothing saved him from
insanity save his habit of writing. His
mind was thus led away from the contem-
plation of his miseries.  Journalists are so
engaged in chronicling the woes of others,
that they lose sight of their own."


AN INCALCULABLE WEIGHT.—The weight
of indignation.


176		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	AT a recent meeting of the Citizen's Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia, the fol-
lowing resolutions were passed:
	Resolved, the women of this nation can-
not consistently rejoice in the success of the
Republican, or deplore the defeat of the
Democrats, both parties being indifferent,
if not opposed to the advance and estab-
lishment of equal rights.
	Resolved, that the women of Philadel-
phia have no good reason to expect that
their rights will be regarded by either of 
the late candidates for Mayor, neither hav-
ing uttered a public word in their behalf.
	Resolved, that this society rejoices in the 
fact that women in England have equal
rights with men to vote, with one excep-
tion, the election of members to Parliament,
which, through the persistent efforts of wo-
men and men having that work at heart,
is likely soon to be removed.


FLOWERS.

HE whose worth speaks, needs not to
speak his worth.
	THEY are the wise whom God esteems
wise. They are are the wise whom God
makes wise.
	WARS have been a disgrace to that Chris-
tianity which the nations profess.—Lord
John Russell.
	THERE is no war among men but what
arises from some vice—from covetousness,
or ambition, or an immoderate love of glory.
—Plutarch
	WITH time and patience the mulberry
leaf becomes satin. What difficulty is
there at which a man shonld quail when a
worm can accomplish so much from the leaf
of the mulberry.
	KEEP your conscience tender—tender as
the eye that closes its lid against an atom
of dust, or as that sensitive plant which you
have seen shrink and shut its leaves not
merely from the rude touch of a finger, but
at the breath of a moth.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	INVENTIONS have taken from women the
distaff, the shuttle and the loom, only to
call her genius into wider work.
	GIRLS in their teens should learn the
worth of money and the judicious use of it.
If poor, they should earn it honestly, and
then expand it in gaining an education, or
saving it for the emergencies of the future.
				—Sarah M. Perkins.
	RUSSIAN leather is the skin of the horse
or the calf tanned with the bark of the
birch, which gives it that peculiar smell
which is so grateful to the senses, and seems
to preserve it from the attacks of insects.
	THE number of pilgrims who assembled
in 1875 at Mecca, is stated by Consul Beytz
in his commercial report on Jeddah, for that
year to have been 140,000. Of these 40,000
went by sea, and the remainder by caravans
across the continent.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

 THE warmest reception contributions
meet with from editors:—To burn them.

DRY SUBJECT.--A college professor, who


was giving a course of lectures on Egyptian
antiquities, said to his class, "This morning,
young gentlemen, I have a very dry sub-
ject. It is the Mummy."
	MANY of the great men of history have
been of short stature, from the days of that
ancient philosopher who, as the story goes,
was so diminutive that he had to carry
lead in his pockets to prevent his being
blown away. Canute the Great, for exam-
ple, was a singularly small man; Napoleon,
too, was little; Nelson had no height to boast
of; and the great Conde was short enough.
Hildebrand—Gregory the Seventh—the
mightiest of all the Popes, was also quite
a diminutive person. Then amongst men
of letters, poets, and philosophers, Mon-
taigne, the essayist, was little; so was Pope
—"a little crooked thing that asks no ques-
tions;" so was Dryden; so was Dr. Watts;
who insisted, as we all know, on the mind
being the stature of the man; and so was
Scarron, who, alluding at once to his ill
health and his little size, called himself an
"abridgement of human miseries." Will
any one, after such names as these—and
the list might be indefinitely extended—
look down on little men with disdain?


PIANOS & ORGANS,
      Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
		             for five years, on.
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS
 Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

	            WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT!
IS THE 
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat.  Does not burn, smart
    or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
      mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
         Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
                        PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
         Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

 The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
A HOME PREPARATION.
 ONLY CITY AGENCIES--11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Stores, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's, 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward (and Woman's Commission House.

                        AGENTS WANTED
    No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required.  Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
     IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
                        WOOLEN GOODS, 
                                SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS
				LADIES JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES, 
 Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
far, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
	R. Matthews & Co's Esssence of Jamaica Ginger
    Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
		  Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
			Table Salt, Band Boxes and
				    Dixie Cotton.

                               DAVID JAMES
                    (Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
                  Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
                                 AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		  Pumps Repaired on short notice.
        Orders from the country promptly responded to. 
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

			F. AUERBACH & BRO. 
      55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		   Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
			      Staple and Fancy
			        DRY GOODS
    Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc., 
      Men's and Boy's Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots,
          and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                            Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
    ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
    the Old Fashioned House. 

                            THE FINE ARTS
    The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to	C.R. SAVAGE
						 Salt Lake City, Utah. 

 Mrs. C. E. DYE, 
 Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
 Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
			17, East Temple street.
                        TEMPLE OF FASHION.
    Ladies attending Conference will do well to giver her a 
call. 

Z. C. M. I. 
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBRAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &C.

TEASDEL'S 
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISION, Etc. 

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

