EDITORIAL NOTES

	WE desire to call the attention of our
readers to the Union Pacific excursion rates
as published in our columns. It will be a
good opportunity for those who desire to
take a little recreation during the hot
weather.

	THE Relief Society conference of this
Stake of Zion was held today in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall. Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. President Angus M. 
Cannon was present and President Zina D.
H. Young with her Counselors Sisters Jane
S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith. The
written resignation of both President Horne’s
counselors were presented and acted upon,
and two other counselors elected to fill the
vacancies; Sisters Annie Taylor Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon. The minutes of 
the conference will be published later.

	THE pamphlet containing the speeches of
Hon. O. F. Whitney made in the Constitu-
tional Convention is now ready for distribu-
tion. The County W. S. Associations
should avail themselves of this opportunity 
and send a few stamps for postage on receipt 
of which we will forward the literature.
Those who read and study the speeches of
F. S. Richards and O. F. Whitney will
find some good arguments, and much de-
sirable information on this important subject
which is so much discussed and so indiffer-
ently understood viz. political equality.
The pamphlets have been published by the
Utah Woman Suffrage Association and are
freely distributed, the means being gener-
ously given by the ladies of Salt Lake City
and County, in the hope of setting before
the people some of the why’s and where-
fore’s of the reasons for equal suffrage for
men and women.

	MRS. Arthur Brown gave a pleasant recep-
tion and tea at her home to-day, to the Utah
Woman’s Press Club and other lady friends.
Mrs. Brown is a very genial and gracious
hostess, and on this occasion as upon simi-
lar ones, her parlors were artistically deco-
rated giving them the appearance of a 
bower of roses the fragrance and beauty
were specially delightful. We shall not
attempt to give a description of the scene,
but suffice to say everything was in the
most perfect taste for the enjoyment of her
guests, and the conversation of such ladies
as Mesdames Judd, Baldwin, Kimball,
Clawson, Henderson, Richards, Kraft,
L. F. and A. F. Young and others
equally brilliant, together with the “Club”
women made the hours go swiftly by. Mrs.
Brown in a very artistic way read Eugene
Field’s poem The Conversazione, which was
heartily applauded. Miss Maude Pratt
opened with the song “Last Night” and
Mrs. R. M. Fox read an original humorous
poem “Woman’s Sphere.” Miss Laura
Hyde gave an appropriate recitation. Mrs.

[Column 2]
A. W. Cannon gave in her own characteristic
way, Watkins Quest, and some club mem-
bers gave expression to their feelings in
thanks and appreciation of the courtesy and
kindness extended to the club. The affair
was in every respect a happy one, except
for the absence of guests, who were either
out of town, or had previous engagements.
	MRS. and Miss Mackintosh gave an ele-
gant At Home, at their handsome residence
in honor of Mrs. Lane of Washington, D. C.
Everything was on the most fashionable 
and elaborate scale. The house in itself is
magnificent, and its arrangements and fur-
nishings grand and imposing. It reminds
one of an old castle, except that it is too
modern in tone, and has not the sombre old-
ness of the days of knights and Barons. 
The floral decorating was simply indescriba-
ble except by an artist. The beauty, or 
American blush roses predominated, but
there were many other more delicate and 
paler roses and other blossoms in charming
contrast. The dainty refreshments partaken
of in the midst of so much that charmed
the eye and gratified the sense was like
feasting on ambrosia, and one could easily
imagine fairy land, so enchanting was the 
occasion. Conversation in such a place,
and at such a time, was naturally inspiring,
and the constant coming and going of new
faces, and dear, delightful friends must have 
made the hearts of the charming hostesses
glad and happy. Mrs. Lane, who has been 
in Salt Lake before was most gracious to all
and every one felt on meeting her that
peculiar fascination, which makes one forget
time and place and linger on, until the next
introduction reminds one of the fact that
five hundred or more are also to extend and
receive greetings. A band of musicians in 
the hall of the grand staircase discoursed
melodious, dreamy music which floated out
upon the perfumed air and mingled with 
the conversation of the happy company,
who half unconsciously sipped their tea or
partook of ices, creams, etc., or strolled
from room to room admiringly. It was a 
most delightful afternoon. Mrs. Mackin-
tosh may certainly be congratulated on the 
happy success of the effort to give her friends
the opportunity of meeting her very charm-
ing guest and friend.
	A GRAPHIC lecture and recital was given
by Ida Snow (daughter of President Lorenzo
Snow) on the evening of June 14th, at
Unity Hall. The lady has traveled in
Europe and tarried in some of the most in-
teresting cities, and has evidently made
good use of her time and is well qualified
by study and observation to tell what she
has seen and to describe accurately places
and people for the satisfaction of others, who
while listening to her clear, well-modulated
voice cannot fail to be highly entertained.
The first part of her lecture was devoted to
her own first impressions of Venice, the
Grand Canal by moonlight, its novelty and
dazzling splendor, with its tower and stately
palaces rising from the water, it was almost
like seeing it in a vision so life-like was
her vivid word painting. The Rialto bridge
was described picturesquely, the music
floating on the water from a brilliantly il-
luminated gondola under the marble rock
of the Rialto; the gondoliers strange woon-
ing at every turn, ah Italia! In the happiest
manner Miss Snow described the Piazza of
St. Marco with its elegant colonnades and
polished marble palaces, its square paved
with marble promenades; the tranquil indo-


lent life of the Italians brooding all day
long over their little cups of coffee, and the
world-famous pigeons. Palace of the Doges,
the beautiful architecture and grand paint-
ings some of the masterpieces specially
mentioned, such as Tintoretta’s, “The Para-
dise,”—“The Triumph of Venice” by Paul
Veronese and others, also the Venetian
paintings in the Academia delle Belle Art,
by the Bellini, Carpaccio and other celebra-
ted masters. Many other striking pitcures
were drawn and elaborately' portrayed- her
lecture should be given in a large hall, and
is worthy of a numerous audience, one
must have been very unimpressionable not
to have appreciated the lecture. The scene
rorn “As You Like It,” given afterwards
showed to good advantage the ladies dra-
matic talent. Miss Snow’s next lecture
will be Rome, Naples and Switzerland.


