WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.

	Since the day when Miriam wrote and
sang in the classic land of the Nile, there
have been women with hearts full of song,
and with souls delicately attuned—silent
poets, perhaps, but oftimes silent only be-
cause the stern tyrant necessity bade them
toil, not sing.
	When women first commenced to write
they did not think of doing so for pay, but
being impelled from some force within,
they thus occupied their spare moments.
There is one writer who says in colonial
times the professional literary woman was
unknown. The verses of Mrs. Anne
Bradstreet, called in flattery the “tenth muse"
were “the fruit but of some few hours
curtailed from sleep and other refreshments."
Mrs. Mary Warren, who left voluminous
records of the Revolution never sought
to gain a livelihood by her pen. She wrote
her tragedies for amusement in the solitary
hours when her friends were abroad.”
	An authority says that ’tis only about a
hundred years since the literary woman

[Column 2]
came to remain with us. But she has played
an important part in the world’s history
since she came, and of no less importance
may be considered her sister the woman
journalist.
	In the beginning of woman’s literary
career, it was not a popular thing for her to
be known as a writer, and she was dubbed
“bluestocking.” As compared with the
pen, the needle was considered the more
fitting emblem of woman’s industry.
	In striking contrast to those days, how-
ever is the present time, when the success-
ful writer, man or woman, is supposed to
reflect credit on his relatives and friends.
	Although one writer says literature is one
avocation that has never closed its floors to
women, there are several great writers of the
earlier time who chose to conceal their
identy by using the nom de plume of a man;
as, George Eliot, George Sand, Gail Hamil-
ton, etc. They did this “because they
wished an unbiased judgment as artists.”
But since then, the world having grown more
liberal with its greater enlightenment, it is no
difficult matter to find critics and editors in
plenty who pass equally fair judgment on
women and on men.
	There are women engaged in journalism
in all parts of the civilized world. Far off
Australia had, at the organization in 1887,
two officers in the International Press Asso-
ciation, Mrs. Augusta Chadz of Melbourne,
Mrs. E. J. Bocock of Queensland and both
vice-presidents of that society. The other
officers were residents of England, and
America, the president, Mrs. Eliza J.
Nicholson being a resident of New Orleans.
	In Saxony Louise Otto edited and pub-
lished for four years a journal which gave
all the news concerning woman’s rights.
Later, she worked in connection with
Auguste Schmidt, in editing a small jour-
nal called New Ways. This was published
by the Universal German Woman’s Union,
an organization designed to provide homes
for poor girls and orphans, and train them
into habits of usefulness.
	In England, some of the women who
have written books are known the world
over. Of the personality of their news-
paper and magazine writers I know but
little, but presume from items I have read, 
that there, as here, there are women en-
gaged in editorial and reportorial work.
	France has produced a number, of bright
literary women. Napoleon said of Madam
De. Stael, “Her arrows would hit a man if
he were seated on a rainbow.”
	When we come to American women in
journalism, there is scarcely a reader of our
newspapers and magazines who cannot call
to mind a host of bright, witty, and wise
pen women. Mrs. Laura C. Holloway,
herself a well-known newspaper woman,
and for years on the editorial staff of the
Brooklyn Daily Eagle, says, “There never
was a time since newspapers were made that
women were not at work upon them.”
	We have account of the widow of James
Franklin of Rhode Island, (he being an
older brother of Benjamin Franklin) who
nearly half a century before the Revolution
continued, after the death of her husband,
the publication of the newspaper formerly
conducted by him. And even when he
had charge of the business, his wife had
been of great assistance to him.
	In 1772 Clementine Reid printed and
edited the Virginia Gazette, and it was the
first paper in the United States to publish
the Declaration of Independence. 
	There were numerous other women of

[Column 3]
colonial times who were engaged in print-
ing and editing newspapers. Mrs. Hol-
loway speaking of them says “Many have
missed historical record; but of the seventy
eight news papers published in the colonies
sixteen were edited by women, and of those
sixteen, fourteen were ardent patriots. So,
as usual, we find, woman on the right side.
	Mrs. Sarah Josepha Hale, born in New
Hampshire in 1795, commenced at an early
age to contribute to different magazines.
A little later, and while still a young wo-
man, she took charge of Godey’s Ladies
Magazine, and thus, become the first wo-
man in America to edit a magazine.
	Thirty-five years ago there were but few
women to be found in newspaper offices,
among the first of these being Margaret
Fuller, who was so long associated with
Harace Greeley on the New York Tribune.
Margaret Fuller is said to have possessed
an education of superior excellence, and in
that way to have better equipment than any
who had as yet entered the literary field.
She is exceptional, too, in this fact; she did
not, as did many of her contemporaries, ac-
cording to one critic, “work her passage into
literature by first compiling, a cookery
book.” She worked with high purpose,
and her great cry was for a broader and
more generous culture for girls.
	Fanny Fern (Sarah Peyton Willis) sister
of Nathaniel P. Willis, commenced her
literary career when about forty years of
age. She probably did not realize that she
possessed literary talent, for being left a
widow with two children to support, she
attempted school-teaching. Not succeeding
in that, she wrote a few sketches as a ven-
ture and sent to Robert Bonner, editor of
the New York Lodger, They were pub-
lished, attracted much attention, and were
widely copied. The result was an im-
mediate and lucrative engagement, which
lasted until her death, to write exclusively
for the Ledger. She was educated in the
school of Catharine and Harriet Beecher.
	Grace Greenwood was a popular writer
who contributed to the New York Mirror
and Washington Era. Later she edited a
children's paper, The Little Pilgrim.
	Though now over eighty years of age,
she read a paper at the National Council of
Women in Washington, last February; and
one who heard her says, it was full of wit-
ticisms and kept her audience in constant
good humor.
	Jennie June became so popular as a con-
tributor to some of the leading magazines
and papers, that her name became a house-
hold word. She is bright and witty, and
the originator of a certain style of news-
paper correspondence. She is also the 
founder of Sorosis, an important organiza-
tion and the first of women’s clubs. Of
course, these alliterative names are but the
pseudonyms of the writers.
	There is such an army of gifted pen wo-
men of the past and present time, that
simply to name them, even if one could,
would be a task of magnitude. 
	The pecuniary compensation of good
writers is an item not to be overlooked.
Edward W. Bok, editor of the Ladies
Home Journal says, “For every man who
makes a good living by the pen there are
almost two women. Mrs. Isabel Mellon
the sprightly “Bab” has an income larger
than the editor of many a big daily.”
	Mary Mapes Dodge gets an income from
her publishers that many a man would be
proud to earn. Lillie Hamilton French
keeps a comfortable flat in New York and


[Column 1]
supports her mother in excellent style, en-
tirely from the proceeds of her pen. And
one may cite many instances of financial
success.
	So we see that women show much busi-
ness as well as literary ability. Mrs. Frank-
lin, so long before the Revolution is only
one of a list of widows who continued the
business of their deceased husbands.
	After the death of the editor of The
Feathered World in England, his widow,
Mrs. Comyns, continued the publication,
and soon raised the circulation from 12,000
to 20,000. In the year 1892 she was the
only woman in the United Kingdom who
was proprietor, editor and manager of a
paper. 
	The most striking instance of the kind in
America is Mrs. Frank Leslie. In 1881
after the death of her husband, she took
charge of his publications. She states that
she had never been in the office six times
before that, and that she found all chaos;
for the entire business was in the hands of
the assignee and a committee of creditors.
She was obliged to face an enormous in-
debtedness and several lawsuits. The
creditors of Mr. Leslie could not afford to
let him fail as he used such large supplies
it would have meant ruin to them. So
they had contracted to give him three years
time and take their pay out of the profits.
A wealthy Brooklyn woman came to the
rescue of Mrs. Leslie. The latter took
charge of the business on the 1st of July
and agreed to pay part of the account on
November 1st: but on the 29th, of October
she paid the entire loan with interest.
	It was the misfortune of President Gar-
field that enabled her to retrieve herself so
quickly. She assumed control of the busi-
ness on Thursday; the President was
wounded on Saturday. She at once dis-
patched'her artists to Washington—all very
young men; because as she said, “Youth is
more enterprising, and will dare to do what
older men will not venture.’’ Great efforts
had to be made on the Sunday and Fourth-
of July holiday on the Monday following,
but they were all successful, and by Mon-
day evening all was ready for the press, the
front pages and double page of the illus-
trated having been entirely changed. As a
result an edition of 300,000 was sold im-
mediately and orders came in so rapidly it
was impossible to fill them.
	Mrs. Leslie immediately took all her il-
lustrations and made a pictorial history of
the sad event, which she called the Garfield
Memorial, and she cleared ten thousand
dollars on that. She designs leaving her
large fortune as a benefaction to women.
	Kate Field is a prominent figure in litera-
ture. For years she contributed to various
magazines in England and America. She
is now editor and proprietor of Kate Field's
Washington a bright and spicy magazine
which is largely quoted from by the news-
papers. It is now in its tenth volume clos-
ing its fifth year, and is published in the
city whose name it bears.
	But one’s eyes need not be forever turned
eastward in scanning the field of literature.
Here in our western country are a
number of journals conducted entirely by
women, and there are women contributors
to most of the prominent papers and
magazines. Prominent among the former,
and first of all to be published in the Rocky
Mountain region is the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. It was started June 1st, 1872,
edited by Miss Lula Greene,  now Lula
Greene Richards. Subsequently it

[Column 2]
passed into the hands of Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, who has ever since continued to
be the editor and publisher. It is the organ
of the Relief Society of the church it
represents and besides devoting itself to
philanthropic, literary, and industrial
societies, it publishes gems in poetry and
prose, original and selected.
	Another Utah paper conducted entirely
by women is the Young Woman's Journal,
of which Susa Young Gates, a daughter of
President Young, is editor. It is designed
to publish the best of the original articles
read before the Young Ladies Improve-
ment Associations, and to foster the literary
ability which without doubt exists in our
fair territory.
	The first paper on the Pacific Cosst to be
published by a woman was The New
Northwest, of Portland, Oregon, with Mrs.
A. J. Dunniway, editor. It was issued in
1871, a year before the EXPONENT.
	The Impress of San Francisco is the or-
gan of the Pacific Coast Woman’s Press
Association, and is edited and contributed
to by members of that society.
	The Golden Dawn; a woman's paper
was published in San Francisco about 1872,
California is proud of her pen women,
and with good reason too.
	I hope ere long to see shining local lights
in literature as a result of the broader cul-
ture and greater leisure which now exist.
And I would like to mention there is a
writer who signs herself “Mab” Ogden, in
writing to the Salt Lake Herald. I have
wished she would exercise her pen more
freely. There is a strain in her writing
which reaches the heart, and I have read
between the lines a desire for the better-
ment of humanity.
	It is woman’s mission to uplift the hu-
man race, and the field of journalism is a
wide one in which to operate. And also a
woman can there find exercise for the
maternal instinct which is so largely a part
of her nature. She may take the world
figuratively, as her child, and train it in
the way it should go, sparing not the rod
of correction, nor the soothing caress, but
all the while pointing to the upward, on-
ward way, saying, "This path shalt thou
tread,"
	Today we have spoken only of the suc-
cessful woman in journalism. But there
have been, alas! as many failures; and even
those who later achieved success, often in
the beginning faced difficulty and defeat.
	The field is overcrowded and one should
not attempt to enter unless she feel that in-
herent call which almost amounts to inspira-
tion. And Longfellow has reminded us

	"The heights by great men reached and kept, 
		Were not attained by sudden flight;
	But they, while their companions slept.
		Were toiling upward in the night.

	Undoubtedly there are many new stars
yet to appear in the galaxy of literature.
But it is well for all to remember the words
of an unknown author,

	“To write some earliest verse or line, 
Which seeking not the praise of art, 
	Shall make a clearer faith and manhood shine
		in the untutored heart.

	He who doeth this in verse or prose;
		May be forgotten in a day;
But surely shall at last be crowned with those.
	Who live and speak for aye.”

