Salt Lake City, Sunday, May 12,1895.]
	Was the next speaker. He said “To
what I owe the distinguished honor that has
been placed upon me in being asked to fol-
low the eloquent ladies who have already
addressed you, I know not; particularly
am I at a loss to account for it, when I
think of the many able men and women by
whom I am surrounded, and who are better
qualified to interest and edify you on this
occasion than myself. Nevertheless I am
here to speak as God shall give me utter-
ance, trusting that I may have the Holy
Spirit, that I may say nothing that is un-
true, that is unwise, or that is not kind and
charitable.
	While the first lady was speaking, and 
when she mentioned the name of an im-
mortal poet whose genuis I much admire, 
my mind recalled the words of another 
poet who was his friend, who survived him, 
and who spoke these words concerning
him. 
Like an archangel, exiled for dark crimes, 
His spirit walked the earth in scorn and gloom, 
And where it smote, it smote like the simoom, 
Deadly, though beautiful. Yet there were times
*	*	*	*	when his great soul shone out 
In all the primal glory of its light. 
His songs were then remembrances of heaven, 
Dashed with a scoffing spirit at that earth
In which he seemed constrained to live. 
	I am not only an admirer of the genius
of Byron, but I agree with his friend Rogers, 
that there were times when his soul lifted 
itself above the clouds and mists of earth, 
and remembered some of that song which 
he was expected to sing for the betterment
and blessing of mankind. And when I 
contemplated these noble women, these
queens of thought, who have addressed us 
with so much eloquence and truth- when I 
thought of the opprobrium that has been 
heaped upon  them and their cause, their
names bandied about by every ribald
tongue, their purposes misunderstood, 
and themselves hated and despised per-
haps by men who are their inferiors, unable
to understand that motives that animate their
souls- I thought of the sublime words of
Byron:—-
He who ascends to mountain tops shall find
The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow; 
He who surpasses or subdues mankind, 
Must look down on the hate of those below. 
Though high above the sun of glory glow, 
And far beneath the earth and ocean spread, 
Round him are icy rocks, and loudly blow
Contending tempests on his naked head. 
And thus reward the toils which to those summits
	led. 
	But there is this consolation, which these
champions of equal rights may take to 
themselves, which we may all cherish and 
derive some comfort from, and that is, that 
this is the treatment which has always been 
meted out to those who came to bless the 
world, to lift up mankind, to teach a new

[Column two] 
doctrine destined to ameliorate the condition
of the race. Prophets, poets, philosophers, 
sages, reformers of every description- the 
world has not bowed down to them, has 
not placed upon their brows the laurel
wreath, has not showered blessings upon
them while living. It has ever been that 
the living prophets were despised and 
trampled upon, while the sepulchres of the 
dead prophets were garnished; but it shall yet
be with this cause, as with every other cause
which holds within it the truth; the stone
which the builders rejected shall become the 
head of the corner. 
	When I was first notified that I would be 
expected to say a few words after these
ladies had spoken, I thought a similar
thought to one that has been expressed; I 
said to myself, what can I say? It is true I 
am better acquainted with this congrega-
tion than my lady friends, and the people
generally are better acquainted with me. 
Still I wondered what I should say after
their eloquence had entranced you. There 
were three ideas that came to my mind, and 
they were suggested by two passages of 
scripture, viz. 
	"And God created man in his own image, 
in the image of God created he him, male 
and female created he them."
	The three thoughts suggested to me were
these:-
	Firstly, that if God created man in His 
own image, then it follows as a logical 
sequence that God is in the image of man. 
	Secondly, that Deity, which created man
and woman, male and female, in its own
image, after its own likeness, must of 
necessity involve and comprehend the male
and female principles. 
	Thirdly, that if we be the children of
God; if it be true,as we have sung, and as I 
doubt not, that in the heavens parents are not
single, but that we have a Mother as well as 
a Father there, then it follows that we, as the 
sons and daughters of God, bear within us 
the embryotic germs of Deity, and are 
capable by advancement, by progression, of 
becoming like our Father and our Mother in 
heaven; that it is possible, in other words, for 
man to become God, and if this be true, it 
teaches that there was a time when that 
being whom we now worship- that our 
eternal Father and Mother were once man
and woman in mortality. 
	These are well- known Mormon doctrines. 
and they ought to be well known Christian
doctrines, for they are sustained by the 
Scriptures, which, when properly under-
stood and interpreted, will be found to 
teach, by implication at least, these truths. 
	Seventy-five years ago, upon just such a 
bright spring morning as that which dawned
in glory upon this valley today, in the 
backwood of western New York, a boy about
fourteen years of age went out into the woods
to pray. He was "reaching after God," he 
was seeking for truth, not being content
with what was taught by the teachers of 
the time. He had seen that they differed 
among themselves and therefore, taking


[Column 1]
the word of God which said, "If any man
lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth
to all men liberally and upbraideth not," and
believing that saying, he had determined to
put it to the test. He declared that while
he was praying, like one pleading for his
life, a power came over him which had the
effect of paralyzing his tongue so that he
could no longer speak. A horror of dark-
ness fell upon him, and it seemed as if he
must pass over the brink of destruction.
But he continued to pray, and just at the
moment when he thought he should give
way to despair, he saw a light descending
from heaven directly over his head, of such
surpassing brilliance as to exceed that of the
noon-day sun. A pillar of light descended
and rested above his head. In the midst
of this pillar he saw two glorious beings in
the form of men. One of them pointing to
the other said, "This is my beloved son
hear him."
	This was a startling revelation. The
youth obtained more light than he had
prayed for, perhaps more than he could
then comprehend; for here was the proof
stamped anew upon a human mind, that
God, who made man in His own image, is
indeed in the image of man.
	I am aware that we Mormons are accused
of interpreting the scriptures too literally.
I bear in mind the coming to this City of a
learned Hindoo, a Mr. Nagarkar, who
represented the Bramo-Sumaj at the
World's Congress of Religions. He
claimed that only oriental peoples were
capable of fully understanding the Hebrew
Scriptures; that Christianity being an
oriental religion, could only be comprehend-
ed by the people of the orient. He said
that all western nations interpret the Bible
too literally.
	Well, perhaps we sometimes do, and we
may say also that perhaps the eastern or
oriental nations spiritualize the word of God
too much. In fact we think all the Christian
churches are given to this more or less;
that they do not recognize that there are two
interpretations, a dual interpretation, to be
placed upon the word of God. When we
speak of baptism, for instance, of being born
again, we do not mean a baptism of water
alone, but a baptism of the Spirit as well.
Immersion in water is only half a baptism,
and so with the spiritual baptism. As the
spirit without the body is imperfect, so is
the body without the spirit. And as one
baptism is imperfect without the other, so
also is one interpretation—the temporal in-
terpretation of the word of God, imperfect
without the spiritual interpretation, and the
spiritual imperfect without the temporal.
	Now, we hear Christians say that when
it is declared that God created man in His
own image, it means the moral image, and
that we are not to drag the Deity down, and
have the presumption to claim that He is in
the form of man. But that is precisely
what we do claim. What this youth saw
seventy-five years ago, the Father and the
Son in the form of men, is our conception of
God; not of the Holy Ghost, the third
person in the Trinity, but of the Father
and the Son, who have tabernacles as
tangible as that of man. I say this was a
startling revelation; because at that time
the world believed God to be merely an
infinite spirit, a universally diffused essence
which, as Pope says:
	Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze,
	Glows in the stars and blossoms in the trees,
	Lives thro' all life, extends thro' all extent,
	Spreads undivided, operates unspent.

[Column 2]
	This, to us, is an admirable description of
the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost; but it is
not a description of that God who created
man in His own image, and of whom it is
written that His Son, Jesus Christ was the
express image of His Father's person.
When the disciples of Jesus asked Him to
show them the Father, He replied, "Have
I been so long with you. and yet have ye
not seen me. He that hath seen me, hath
seen the Father."
	Therefore, we claim we have sufficient
evidence, even in the Bible, (aside from the
revelation to Joseph Smith) to show that
we are indeed of the same order of beings
as God, our Heavenly Father; that we are
indeed His sons and daughters, that He has
placed us here to contend for the right, to
reach after Him, to undergo the varied ex-
periences which fall to the lot of mortals
and thus become fitted to associate with our
Father and Mother in heaven. Why should
we think it unreasonable that children
should become like their parents? Is it not
the hope, the fond anticipation of every
good mother and father on earth that their
children shall arrive at maturity, and be-
come noble and useful members of society,
become like their parents here? Then if we
be the children of God, why think it un-
reasonable, presumptuous or blasphemons
that we should hope to become as God? Is
it not, after all, a mere matter of education,
of development, of expansion? No matter
how wide the gulf which separates us from
Him, that gulf can be bridged, that gulf
was bridged, by the atonement of our
Savior, who came to render this achievement
possible. Men and women, sons and
daughters of God, can cross over that gulf
in time, and enter upon the plane occupied
by their heavenly parents. These are the
things that we aspire to, that are promised,
and which sweeten adversity and render per-
secution tolerable. This is our belief in re-
lation to all the world, to the whole human
race. Progress is written upon everything
that God has made. The stars that glitter
in the blue vault of heaven are educated
worlds, homes of the redeemed and glorified
or of those who, like ourselves, yet hope
for glorification. This earth is but one
of millions of planets that have preceded it,
and have become the habitations of the
righteous: and those who live here by every
word that proceedeth from the mouth of
God will render themselves worthy of
celestial exaltation. There is a glory of
the sun, a glory of the moon, and a glory
of the stars, and as one star differs from
another star in glory, so also is the resurec-
tion of the dead. These are the induce-
ments held out to us. If we press on we
may attain to a glory that shall blaze like
the sun at noonday, or if not to that, to one
that will beam like the moon in milder
lustre, or if not to that, then to the twinkling
glory of the stars. But what should be the
aspiration of a child of God? To go where
God and Christ dwell, to inherit the celestial
kingdom and be satisfied with nothing less.
	It is our desire to progress. We believe
in serving God and in befriending the hu-
man family; in doing everything possible
for the advancement of the race. When I
arose I did not expect to say a word upon
the subject of woman suffrage. I will say
this, however, that I regard that movement
as one of the levers by which the Almighty
is lifting up this fallen world. It is a meas-
ure of progress, a step in the march of hu-
man liberty, and will sweep from its path
all opposition that lifts its puny arm and

[Column 3]
voice against it. I feel this in every fibre
of my being. I am glad to say that I ad-
vocated equal suffrage upon the floor of the
Constitutional Convention, and voted to
have it placed in the Constitution of the
State.
	May God bless every movement for the
advancement of the cause of common hu-
manity, for the enlargement of the borders
of liberty. May we, as Americans, show
that America has indeed set an example of
liberality to all the world, that she stands
like a goddess in the midst of the earth
holding aloft the torch that shall kindle and
illumine the nations. This government
was founded for that purpose, and as
champions of progress, let us be true to our-
selves, and show that we believe in the
divine mission and destiny of our country.


