IN MEMORIAM.
Sister Minnie A. Cook who departed this
life the 8th of October 1894. Was born at North-
hampton England the 18th of November 1821.
Was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Later-day Saints by Elder Thomas Smith in 1894.
Emigrated to Utah in 1856 in the Ward Cart
Company, she was a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society of the Second Ward and among the
first to propose a Sunday School in the same
ward where she worked faithfully among the
young people. She also lived in President
Young’s family for some years as a teacher of
music. When she was called home to her
Native country by her parents, both of whom she
busied while there, and then finding the spirit of
the gospel burning in her soul, she again returned
to join where by the help of the Lord, in her
weak way she taught music and needle work to
many young women; always feeling it a duty to
impart of knowledge the Lord had given her to
those whom she met, ever conscious if she was
rewarded in this life, God would reward her ac-
cording to her deeds of love and kindness. And 
when we go beyond this life, may we be as
worthy as she, is the desire of one who has known
her well and always respected her greatly and
loved her dearly even in her old age.
					S. E. M.

	Rizpah Knight Gibbons whose death ocurred
here March 17th, 1895, at St. John’s Arizona, born
March 13, 1890, in Perrysbury Co., State of New
York. She was the daughter of Martha McBride
and Bishop Vinson Knight. Her parents united
with the church soon after its organization and in
1834 moved to Kirtland.
	The deceased was present at the dedication of
the Kirtland Temple, March 27th, 1836. They
afterwards moved to Missouri from whence
they were expelled with the Saints in 1839 locat-
ing at Nauvoo Ill.
	Here she formed the acquaintance of Andrew S.
Gibbons to whom she was afterward married
They were permitted to enter the Temple at
Nauvoo and receive their blessings.
	In 1846 they were again driven from their
homes going westward, she remaining with the
Saints that were scattered along the way between
Nauvoo and Winter Quarters while her husband
went on with President Young’s Pioneer company.
He returned for her in the fall of 1847 and soon
as they could raise means started for Salt Lake
Valley where they arrived in 1852 and located at
Bountiful.
Two years later he was called to the southern
mission and located in Iron Co.
	Four years after her husband (with others) was
called to labor as an Indian missionary. They
were called to Arizona and located in St. Johns,
Feb. 1880. Most of her life was spent on the
frontier, consequently she suffered much privation
and endured many hardships, but remained faith-
ful as did also her husband who preceded her to
the other world nine years ago, and by whose side
she is now laid.
	She was the mother of fifteen children, eight of
whom died in their infancy. When she was still
quite a young woman she was called upon to wait
upon the sick, and was afterwards set apart for
that labor and spent a great deal of her time in
that way during about forty years.
	She with her husband had the privilege of en-
tering into holy places and receiving very great
blessings, and also doing a good work for their
dead. She also attended the dedication of the
Salt Lake Temple. She was followed to her last
resting place by many loving relatives and friends.
