	ENCE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

	CONFERENCE of the Relief Societies of
the Hawaiian Islands was held April 5,
1895, at head quarters Laie, Oahu, about
250 Saints marched in the usual order to
the meeting house, which had been neatly
festooned with ferns and flowers for the oc-
casion. After the usual opening exercises,
which were rendered promptly and lively,
the Financial and Statistical report for the
year ending Dec, 31st, 1894, was reade
showing 36 branches (eight of which were,
not reported) members 619, meetings held
783. Receipts for the year $672.85. Dis-
bursments to the poor $60.05. To the
Temple $18.25. Missionaries $75.70.
Miscellaneous $168.95. On hand $349.90
	The first speaker was Kapa, the former
president of the first Relief Society organized
upon these islands. She spoke upon the
labors of President George Q. Cannon while
here, and also upon the good accomplished
by the society here during the past twenty
years.
	A duet was nicely rendered by Sisters
Merema Kekuku and Ane Apua, Sister
Ella Birdno read an essay on the subject of
the gathering of Israel and bore her testi-
mony to the sisters.
	Sister Kahuhu one of the native counse-
lors spoke on the subject of prayer, and
Poopuu the President of Kahana Society
spoke of the Bible being the word of God,
refered in particular to the gathering of
Israel, said Zion was the land God had
chosen for His people.
	The Sisters from Honolulu sang a song
composed for the occasion. Sister Alice
Hannon read an essay on the subject of
prayer, also spoke of the power of God
made manifest through prayer in the behalf
of her little boy in his recent sickness, and
praised God for his merciful blessings to-
wards her. A duet by Sister Laura Fisher
and husband accompanied by Elder William
Thompson was much appreciated by all
present. Sister Lizzie Brown gave a sketch-
of the life of Sister Phoebe Woodruff and
encouraged others to emulate her good ex-
ample. Song by Sisters Ruth Kauhine,
Kekuwewa and Kaluapalava.
	These exercises were interspersed by.
verbal reports from the different branches
Instructions were given, by Sister Noall
pertaining to the object of the society and
in the fullfillment of woman's earthly mis-
sion, that of multiplying and replenishing
the earth as God first commanded, spoke of
the rapid decrease of the Hawaiian people,
and of the necessity of taking proper care
of the body, not to copy the evils of
civilization but the good referred to the
evils of the world that were creeping in
among them, coupled with the traditions of
their forefathers
	Resolutions of love and respect expressive
of the appreciation of the labors of Sister
Noall among the Society on the Islands,
was read by Sister Makanoe.
	A free will donation of $6.00 was received
the General and local officers were sustained
and meeting was adjourned for six months.
	Singing, "O my father," benediction by
Makanoe.


[Column 1]
