PRESIDENT YOUNG’.S BIRTHDAY.
	ON the first of June, 1895, at the Young
Re-union in the Social Hall, the following
interesting letter was read, which awakened
many tender recollections in the minds
of those present.
	A letter of greeting from Patriarch Lo-
renzo D Young, was read by Brother
Franklin W. Young, as follows:
		SALT LAKE CITY, June 1, 1895.
President Brigham Young and the members
	   of the Young Family Association. 
	Dear Brothers and Sisters:—It would
have given me great pleasure to meet with
you on this momentous occasion, the anni-
versary of the birthday of a great and good
man, one whose deeds live after him, and
whose memory is still green in the hearts of
those who loved and honored him.
	I would like to talk to you a little about
the things that lie near my heart. 
	I stand, as it were, on the threshold of
another world, and I look back on the
years that have vanished like a dream, and
have taught me so many lessons; and I long
with infinite longing to impart some of my
thoughts to you.
	After our toilsome journey to reach this
valley, that was to us the Promised Land,
we arrived here in the early morning; we
were weary and travel-stained, but our
courage was still undaunted. My brother,
Brigham, was riding with Brother Wood-
ruff. He rose up from his seat in the car-
riage and exclaimed in a voice that silenced
any doubt that might have arisen, “This is
the place, this is the place" and we looked
around at the wilderness of sage brush and
black crickets, and knew that forbidding as
it was it was henceforth to be our home.
	Look around you today and answer, Was
he not inspired? His body is resting on the
hillside where the trees murmur a requiem
and the flowers perfume the breeze that
wanders above him, but his glrorous spirit
is reaping the reward of his arduous labor
and it will only be a little time till we will
follow. Let us live humble lives, forsake
the ways of the world and prepare to meet
him. If I understand these celebrations we
come here for the purpose of becoming bet-
ter acquainted with each other, for the
purpose of strengthening the ties of
friendship, for a reunion of love and good
feeling. You have been strewing the roses
of affection and remembrance on an honored
grave; do not forget to scatter flowers of
kindness around you at all times. 
	We honor the dead, and we owe a great
duty to the living. Let us learn to love


and be kind to each other, and in this way
cement the bonds of relationship till we
form an unending chain that will reach
from this world to that other glorious place
where no trouble or sorrow can ever enter.
	I would like to meet with you, but my
strength will not permit, but I pray God to
bless you all with His Holy Spirit. May it be
guide to your footsteps and a light to your
pathway in the journey of life. May you
all live to celebrate the birthday of this
great man for many, many years.
