APPEAL FOR THE ARMENIANS.

	[Address of Lady Somerset before a
Representative Gathering at St. James'
Hall, London.]

	RECENTLY a largely attended meeting
was held at St. James Hall, London, for
the purpose of expressing sympathy with
the victims of Mohammedam fanaticism in
Armenia and elsewhere in Turkey and to
exercise some influence upon the policy of
the British government in behalf of the
sufferers. Among the distinguished

[Column 2]
speakers were the Duke of Argyll, the
Bishop of Hereford, Dr. Percival, Profes-
sor Story, the moderator of the church of
Scotland and the mayor of Liverpool. To
none of these, however, were the forensic
honors of the event aecorded, but to a wo-
man. The London Daily News declared
that Lady Henry Somerset’s address was
the speech of the evening and reported it
verbatim, an honor accorded only to that
distinguished lady and to the duke of
Argyll. The eloquent address will be
read with interest. Lady Somerset said:
	“The crescent of the Turkish mosque has
become the scimitar of the bloody-handed
Turkish soldier. Henceforth that crescent
stands forth in the eyes of all nations as
impossible to cleanse as the hand of Lady
Macbeth, while the cross, gleaming on ten
thousand church spires, sheds forth the mild
effulgence of a beacon that means deliver-
ance wherever its heavenly rays extend.
Never were these two symbols of a dying
and an ever-living cause set over against
each other in a contrast so vivid and signifi-
cant as now. The martyrdoms of the first
century in Jerusalem have been suffered
again at Sassun.  The hills and valleys of
Judea are hardly more sacred than the
blood saturated hlls and the valleys of
Armenia.
	“What was the crime of the Armenians?
That they cherished in their brave and
loyal hearts the Gospel of peace on earth
and good will to men: that the Bible was
their most sacred possession; that the home
life had one central figure rather than a
group of women despoiled of their choicest
heritage—the life long fidelity of one man to
whom their own had been faithfully pledged.
This was the stone of their stumbling, the
rock of their offense in the fierce eyes of
their Moslem foe.
	“Three figures stand forth on the lurid
canvas of this History: the priest who had
sustained and comforted his little flock,
gathered with him in a cave on the hill-side,
was too old to flee when the Turks searched out their covert. He was afterward found,
bayoneted, mutilated, his reverend gray
hairs half concealing the red signs of the
cross that had been cut on his forehead—
indelible mark of the undying hate that
the followers of Mohammed cherish for the
disciples of the Galilean.
	“Another is the scene when Shakkeh,
the sister in- law of Krikor, the famed Ar-
menian leader, herself a woman well known
for her high character, courage and wealth,
took her little boy in her arms, and, being
pursued by the savage soldiery, flung her-
self down a precipice, beneath which she
was found dead by faithful friends who
came to seek her place of martyrdom; as
they simply said: ‘We buried her and the
little one in remembrance of the hospitality
we had so often enjoyed in her happy
home.”
	“The third is a young wife and mother
but eighteen years of age, who, hunted
like a partridge on the hillside, ran with
her little three-months-old boy in her arms
until she was overtaken by the Turkish
troops and her boy slain before her eyes,
his little form being tossed on their bayonets
from one soldier to another; and as she
turned to fly they began to despoil her of
her clothing, when, to their surprise, they
found on her a belt filled with gold coins,
and during their quarrel over the distribu-
tion of their booty, she slipped away and
concealed herself among the fastnesses of

[Column 3]
the rocks, where she was afterward joined
by her husband: and the two escaped and
are here with us tonight.
	“For what did they die—the good priest,
the brave lady, the hunted little mother’s
child? They died that the Gospel—which
raises woman up, and with her lifts toward
Heaven the world—might have free course
to run and be glorified. They died that
the untrammelled, beneficent, consecrated
life of England’s purest womanhood might
slowly come to women in their own beauti-
ful and pleasant land. For they knew as
we do that even as the progress of a June
day is traced on the earth’s map by the sun-
shine, so the widening way of a free Gospel
is traced by woman’s happiness and man-
hood’s exaltation. For them, already
Christianity had done much, for us it has
done more; to them the tender dawn had
come, to us the noontide splendor.
	“It is fitting that an Englishwoman's 
voice should be lifted for the Armenian
woman in this great circle of England’s
power, culture and opportunity. A hun-
dred thousand women wearing the White
Ribbon—emblem of purity and peace—are
invisibly present with me as I stand here
trying to represent their holy indignation
and burning love for their sisters yonder in
the clutch of the harem despot at Constanti-
nople.
	“The watchword of our great nation
today should be not ‘peace with honor’—
for these are words that in the presence of
the lamb upon Armenian hillsides to which
no wind is tempered become a reproach if
not a blasphemy; but rather let us cease to
cry peace, peace, when there is no peace;
and lifting up our hearts to God for power,
let men and women throughout the Eng-
glish-speaking race, in broad America and
Great Britain highly resolve that the rally-
ing cry of Armenian deliverance shall be
peace with purity, peace with fidelity,
peace with loyalty, firm and unfaltering to
the Gospel of Christ and of the Golden
Rule.”


