PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Saturday 6th, at 9-30 the little folks as-
sembled at the mission house and formed in
marshall order each bearing a small Ameri-
can flag which was waved by the gentle
sea breeze, the vibrations of which carried to
the Mountain vales the appropriate strains
of “We are marching to Utah.”
	The meeting house was crowded to its ut-
most capacity the little ones numbering
about 150. Looking over the assembly of
children, seated according to their age,
their bright eyes sparkling with delight,
the little girls dressed in white, and all
wearing badges of gay colors, bearing ban-
ners with appropriate sentiments, the
thought naturally suggests itself “Of such
is the kingdom of Heaven” and during the
rendering of an impressive programme,
tears were frequently seen in the eyes of
parents whose children had beep so care-
fully trained by the missionary sisters,
especially was this the case while listening
to songs composed for the occasion expres-
sive of, their love and appreciation of .the
labors of the President.
	The following is a synopsis of the pro-
gramme. Opening hymn "Beautiful Day”
translated in the native language. Prayer
by Iva Kekuku a child of eight years. 
	Singing, “Did you think to pray” in the
native language as the roll was called each
little lisper responded with Biblical senti-
ment. Twelve items of impoliteness pre-
pared in native to suit the wants of the
children were recited in concert. Opening
address by Victoria Nainoa, Primary Ad-
dress by Sam Kii, Song Iva and Hattie
Kekuku, Addresses were given by boys of
about twelve years old on “Sacrament of
the Lord’s supper.” “Life of Christ,”
“Children’ of Israel” &c. Dialogues pre-
pared in native or Gospel subjects were a
special interesting feature to the parents.
Recitation by Tillie Brown, “Guilty or not
guilty,” was creditably rendered.' Song,
“Godspeed the right” led by a little boy,
the children beating time with their small
flags.- Dialogue in native language by Vera
and Nonnie Noall entitled “Zion or the
land of our birth.” Closing address by
Wallace Brown in native language.
	Many other songs, recitations, essays,
speeches were very creditably rendered by
the children, but the original songs rendered
with feelings of love, was not a small feature
of the days exercises. The six months re-
port was read, showing Associations 2,
Officers 16, members 162, boys 72, girls 90,
ncrease 20, meetings held 42, (essays)
Sentiments learned 39, recitations 62,
reading 33, testimonies 66, Bible verses
learned 184, Questions and Answers 81.
Songs 51, Essays 16, Dialogues 34, Stories
40, Manuscript Papers 11, Correspondance
4, music 1, Financial. On hand at date of
last report $6.70 Receipts for six months
$13.20. Disbursed $11.75. On hand $8.15.
	General and local officers were sustained
for the next term. Words of encourage-
ment were given to the children and coun-
sel to the parents in the rearing of their
little ones, impressing upon their minds the
importance of the labor of the Primary
Association, and the necessity of parents
sending their children to these worthy
meetings that they may learn in youth that
which in later years will not depart from
them, thus fitting them for the labors
that will be required of them in the near
future. Meeting was adjourned for six
months by singing “To Day” (in native)

[Column 2]
and prayer was offered by a little girl from
Honolulu.
	E. D. N.


