				R. E. BERRY, Sec. R. S.

	MARY MORRIS ROBINSON beloved wife of D. A
Robinson, departed this life Feb. 14th, 1895, at
North Morgan. Deceased was the daughter of
Isaac C. Morris and Elizabeth William Morris,
born Oct. 25th, 1855, in Salt Lake City, and was
the mother of ten children; two having preceded
her to the spirit world, a daughter of fourteen 
years of age, and an infant daughter in 1891.
	Sister Robinson at her death left little twin
babes about two hours old, to be reared without
the tender care of a mother.
	She was a loving wife; a devoted mother, a true
friend and a consistent Latterday Saint, the Relief
Society, and the associations of the ward have
lost a faithful co laborer in the death of Sister 
Robinson.

[Column 2]
		RESOLUTIONS OF REPECT.
Whereas the great and Supreme Ruler of the
universe has in his infinite wisdom removed from
among us—one of our worthy and esteemed Sis-
ters and Co laborers Mary Morris Robinson, and
	Whereas the long and continual relation held
with her in the faithful discharge of her duties,
makes it eminently befitting that we record our
appreciation of her,
	Therefore be it resolved, that the wisdom snd
ability which she has exercised in the aid of our
organization by service, contribution, and counsel
will be held in grateful remembrance,
	Resolved that the sudden removal of such a life
from our midst will leave a vacancy and a
shadow that will be deeply realized by all the
members and will prove a severe loss to the
Society; and with deep sympathy with the be-
reaved relations of the deceased we express our
Hopes that even so great a loss to us all, may be
over-ruled for good, by Him that doeth all things
well.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed in our record book and a copy sent to be
printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and also a
copy be forwarded to the bereaved family.
“At the resurrection morning
		We shall all appear as one
		Oh! What robes of bright adorning,
		Will the righteous then put on.”
ELIZABETH WORLTON, Prest,
