LOST ARTS

	WITH some little trepidation I venture to
write a few thoughts about this subject I
choose to call Lost Arts, for perhaps I am
not in tone with the age, and the club
women and advanced thinkers will judge
me as behind the times and call me a
"moss back" when I tell you what I con-
sider lost arts. However, thoughts will 
pass through my mind sometimes like
these, and though I. know the present ad-
vantages to children and women for educa-
tion are far in advance of the past, I won-
der sometimes do we not slight nature, and
force a growth both of body and of mind in
our eagerness to teach and train. Is the
fruit of the green house as luscious and as
firm as that of the garden? Does not the
forced growth injure the flower? There
are several things I consider Lost Arts and
I do not think the present substitutes afford
ample compensation—childs play—-My heart
delights so in nature and everything natu-
ral without affectation of any kind that with
regret and almost pain I notice the studied
and careful movements of children in their
play. I told some little girls yesterday "you
don't know how to play to the fullest en-
joyment, you have been taught too much."
Nowadays little ones, so little, are in
schools of physical culture, kindergartens
and dancing classes, all under trained
teachers. The play and the motions are so
artistically and methodically aranged that
the child is old beyond his years, and sigh-
ing I think of those childish days when
without a teacher of any kind a troop of
roguish children (there were many of us
boys and girls) used to play that "horried"
game of "back out." How we climbed the
apple trees never caring for the few
scratches on our arms or the few rips in our
clothes, swinging from the highest branches,
sometimes stopping long enough to "skin
the cat," then drop to the grassy ground
below. Could a circus girl do better than
that? How we scaled those high stone
walls and ran with the swiftness of an In-
dian along the smooth and rounded surface
and with an Indian shout and a call of
"River of my race receive me," leaped to
the other side a distance of some twelve or
fourteen feet. Did we stop to think is that
graceful, is that according to the rule? no,
we only plunged right on regardless of
everything but the fear of being "backed
out." Then the old rambling barn, what
a place for hide and seek; how we slid down
the mangers into the grain bins, under the

[Column 2]
hay, everywhere like so many rats; afraid
of the horses or cows? no indeed, afraid of 
nothing but the overseer, who didn't care
to have us spoil the hay and when the
alarm was given "James is coming," how
we made for the windows and leaped into
the corral below. What matter if we struck
a cow in our jump or skinned a shin, we
only laughed at our happy escape and be-
gan to plan another sport. Those great
piles of lumber in the back yard, what end-
less amusement they afforded how we 
climbed them just to jump off again. What
glorious teeters they made and wasn't it
fun this swinging up and down under those
great old cottonwood trees; whether as
candlestick or seated on the end. Did we
ever fall or get hurt? oh yes, many times
but that only added to the pleasure, for
the sweet childish sympathy and comfort
made us love on another all the more.
	Then sometimes in the evenings we
played battle with the fariest of maidens, a 
perfect Juno in figure on the one side and
the stoutest of boys a true Roman on the
other for our generals. We drilled and
marched and fought like regular Trojans
to the music of our own voices and with
weapons of our own manufacture. Then
those long hard walks in the canyons with
well-filled baskets, big sun-shade hats,
probably a few ropes for jumping, swinging
or games of "Copenhagen." How with
the rising sun we began those long tramps 
halting at the first spring for a refreshing
drink from some bright tin cup. Was wa-
ter ever sweeter or colder? stopping now
and then to cut a strong willow cane, and
then at the rock bridge to call our names
just for the fun of hearing the echoes.
Halting again at the Empire mill for
another drink and a run along the mill race.
Are we hungry when Pleasant Valley is at
last reached? well, yes indeed and while
the boys prepare the camping ground and
tie back the willows to make room in shady
corners for a pleasant rest, the girls unpack
those precious blaskets. What lunches!
was there ever a banquet half so fine? There
were no signs then in the canyon to "keep
off the grass" or to keep away from the wa-
ter, or not to cut the trees, and we made us
willow bridges that we might climb the
hills on either side, and we twined wreaths
of the birch leaves for our hats, and we
cut long walking canes and in the trunks of
many trees the young chevaliers cut their
own and their sweethearts names. How
we climbed the mountains to the very top,
and our untaught natures drank in the view
of the valley. There was the city where
lay our happy homes. We could see it just
awakening and knew by the blue curling
smoke that those at home were only now
preparing the early breakfast. There lay
the blue and lovely lake we knew so well
shining in the morning's sunlight, and be-
yond towards the eastern hills was the
graveyard where perhaps with a sigh we
thought of some loved on buried there,
who the year before had climbed with us to
that summit and gazed in rapture on that
self-same scene. Was it a brother or a
friend it matters not, it was on beloved,
and the sighs and tears always mingle with
the merriment and laughter. At evening
after all this climbing and playing and
sporting, gaily we wend our way homeward
with ou baskets refilled with the blue and
scarlet flowers of the hills, faces tanned and
sun-burned, shoes almost worn out, dresses
which in the morning were so smooth and

[Column 3]
pretty now rumpled and soiled. Weary,
yes a little, tired enough for a long night's
sweet sleep, but hearts leaping ” with the 
pleasure of that never to be forgotten day.
Oh, those lovely hills, those apply trees,
that dear old barn, those massive walls,
what endless joyous thoughts you now re-
call.
	Modern children, I pity you, walled in
close roomes with bars, and trapeze, and
rings, and wire frames with colored balls,
marching, dancing, posing, counting to
the music of a school piano, listening to
lectures of what not to eat and how to eat
it. Think of the joy of the apples orchards
and the locuts groves where some straight
limbed tree affords all the amusement of
the modern gymnasium, think of the grassy
ground beneath where like fairies or
brownies you can take fantastic steps , to
the music of the winds and birds, think of
the lovely green hills where you can gather
the red and blue, the purple pink and yel-
low flowers and always above- it all, the
blue and lovely sky. Such were the Kin-
der-gartens, and gymnasiums and hygiene
of the children of the pioneers, and can you 
find in the community now, men and wo-
men better developed physically or mentally
than they? Nature is after all the purest,
the most perfect school.
	CONVERSATION:-You don't mean says
one that this is lost, don't people talk now-
a-days, yes I suppose they do, but not like
they used to. A little miss once said to
me I should think your hoe would just
be delightful for I notice whether at the 
table or in the parlor, your mother talks
with you about your lessons, or the books
you are reading, or the music you are
learning, just as though you were as old as
she and of course you learn to like your
studies better; and it was true, we would
converse about different topics at home and
discuss certain questions in a most delight
ful manner; and long evenings of converse
interspersed with a little music was the 
regular order of a home where many friends
and many strangers often joined and still
recall the pleasant hours.
	Other homes were probably just the same
but now I never see that kind of entertain-
ment, if a few friends drop in or one gives
a party it is not the old-fashioned conversa-
tion that leads, now it - must be cards, or if
an invited party there must be some expen-
sive musician or accomplished reader hired
to etnertain, and the company resolves itself
into a meeting and sits with folded hands to
listen to a prepared program. All this is 
very nice of course still those must have
been most fascinating salons of the French
women where men and women of letter
and of war met and conversed on the
leading topics of the day, and again those
evenings of Gearge Elliot’s must have been
delightful where in company with Herbert
Spencer and other great minds, she convers-
ed on literature, travel and music, then
Margaret Fuller's afternoons in conversa-
tion with Emerson and other literary. Bos-
tonians certainly were highly interesting.
Why don't people study more for the sake
of happy converse? Is that not what your
clubs are for, merely a school, to educate
one to converse intelligently and pleasingly,
yet at almost every gathering the club does
not lose its identity and become an informal
meeting of friends to exchange sentiments
and ideas, but often remains formal and con-
ventional as the club meeting itself. Ah!
you say where are the George Elliots, the


Margaret Fullers the Madame De Staels to
entertain one nowadays. True those were
master minds and shone all the brighter for
then there were few women who cared to
study literature and science as they did, but
there are in every community bright intel-
ligent women whose conversation would be
most delightful and if in our homes men
and women discussed with their children
topics and questions of the days, and read
with them occasionally some fine literary
efforts would they seek so much amuse-
ment away from home, or rather would they
love to be there and carry with them into
other homes an atmosphere of refinement
and culture. Conversation as an art we
read about in books we seldom run across
it in life, people are too busy to discuss
questions now, unless they do so publicly
for the money, or the fame it brings, and
very often if in a small party, cards or a
prepared program are not available gossip
takes the place, and that, while entertaining
at the moment often goes too far and causes
unpleasant feelings. If one only knew
just how much to say and kept strictly to
the truth why no objection could be made to
gossip but who is there, who so wise? I
still assert that conversation is a lost art
found occasionally in obscure places.
	LETTER WRITING—With the exception
of some young man on foreign travel or the
youth enjoying his first college year who
writes real letters now-a-days. What would
be the use with the telegraph and the tele-
phone and the type writer one can hear
easily if all is not well with one’s friends
without spending so much time and ink
and paper, writing long letters. And yet
what a delight a nice letter from an absent
friend is, how as one reads parted souls
seem to commune one with another, it is
almost like being with a friend to have him
send a letter. Better some times than con-
versation, for one will write words and
thoughts they fear to tell when face to face;
and oftentimes the heart out pours its ten-
der feelings in flowing language that the
voice would tremble and hesitate to utter.
But it takes too much time to write letters
now and is not necessary so long as one
can hear and know one’s friends state of
health, so that sweet exchange of thoughts
and feeling too is almost done away with.
