Relief Society Women Received at the White House President Belle S. Spafford, N 1880, during a visit of President Rutherford B. Hayes and Mrs. Hayes to Salt Lake City, Mrs. Hayes was presented with a "silk lace fichu, as a souvenir of her visit to the City of the Saints." The silk had been raised by Mrs. Schneiter of that city, and the article manufactured by Mrs. Ursenbach. On May 2, 1946, history repeated itself in that again a First Lady of this great nation was presented with a gift of handwork from Relief Society women. This time the gift was taken to Washington by delegates of the Society and presented to Bess Truman (Mrs. Harry S. Truman), in the elegantly furnished Red Room of the White House. The idea that Relief Society women should visit the White House and present Mrs. Truman with a gift representative of the handwork of Latter-day Saint women, and explain to her the work of Relief Society, originated with President George Albert Smith. Early in the month of , President Smith called Sister Spafford into his office and suggested that such a trip be made. Due to the fact that Christmas was near, and that Relief Society was. Unusually busy with the European relief program, and that the weather was inclement, the trip was delayed until the spring. Through the courtesy of the Honorable Herbert B. Maw, Governor of Utah, arrangements were made with the White House to have Mrs. Truman receive the Relief Society delegates on Thursday, May 2, 1946, at eleven A. M. An invitation was extended by President Smith and the Relief Society General Board to Mrs. Florence B. Maw, wife of Governor Maw, to accompany President Belle S. Spafford, Sister Edith S. Elliott, and Sister Priscilla L. Evans, members of the General Board, to Washington on this important and auspicious occasion. The group left Salt Lake City on the morning of April 28. That this was a history-making event in the life of Relief Society was evidenced by the group who gathered at the station to bid the sisters bon voyage. President George Albert Smith honored the occasion by his presence, and, in addition, there were present Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering, and several other members of the General Board, together with many friends and family members of those who were leaving on this important and unusual mission. It was a beautiful spring - morning, and the hearts of all were glad for the opportunity that had come to Relief Society to acquaint so distinguished a person as Mrs. Truman with the work of this great Society. It was an exciting moment for all as the train pulled out of the Page 723 station and good-byes were waved. Prior to leaving, an exquisite crocheted, white lace tablecloth had been selected from the many beautiful handmade articles at the Mormon Handicraft Shop to be presented to Mrs. Truman. The cloth measured about sixty-three by eightyafour inches before it was blocked, and was the work of Sister Addie E. Hardy, wife of the late Elder Rufus K. Hardy of the First Council of the Seventy. The cloth was made while Sister Hardy remained at home during the time Elder Hardy was serving as a missionary in the South Sea Isles. The cloth, made from very fine thread, required two years to complete. Although it appeared to be made of medallions crocheted together, it was, in reality, made all in one piece a dainty, exquisite piece of handwork, one of the finest pieces of its kind ever to come into the Handicraft Shop. Through the efforts of Mrs. Lucile B. Wolf, manager of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, a special box and wrappings were provided, as well as a hand-painted gift card A GIFT FOR THE FIRST LADY President Spafford admires the crocheted lace tablecloth to be presented to Bess W. Truman, wife of President Harry S. Truman. Left to right: Priscilla L. Evans, Edith S. Elliott, and President Spafford, members of the General Board; and Florence B. Maw, wife of Hon. Herbert B. Maw, Governor of Utah. This photograph was taken in the Board room in the Bishop's Building. The painting of former President Amy Brown Lyman may be seen in the background 724 GREETINGS FROM THE RELIEF SOCIETY showing the sego lily, the Utah state flower. The card was the handwork of Rhea C. Dobson. On the card, in the handwriting of President Spafford, were inscribed these words: Dear Mrs. Truman,; The Relief Society women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are honored to present to you, the First Lady of our great Nation, as an expression of our esteem, this lace tablecloth characteristic of the handwork of Latter-day Saint women. We hope you will enjoy using it, and that it will serve to remind you that rare handwork skills are being perpetuated by our Society. Sincerely, Belle S. Spafford President ? ENCLOSED with the tablecloth in the gift package, which was tied with wide, gold and blue (Relief Society colors) ribbon, was a blue, leather-bound copy of A Centenary of Relief Society, with the name "Bess Truman" on the front cover in gold lettering. A note from Sister Hardy, telling about her work in making the tablecloth, was also enclosed. The delegates carried the carefully wrapped gift with them. The group reached? Washington late Monday evening, April 29, giving them the opportunity of spending two days with friends and Relief Society women prior to the White House visit. On Thursday morning, May 2, preliminary to going to the White House, the General Board representatives were joined at the Mayflower Hotel, where they were staying, by the following women who had previously been invited by the General Board to accompany the women from Salt Lake to the White House to make the presentation: Mrs. Abe Murdock (Mary Violet Yardley), wife of Senator Murdock Mrs. J. Will Robinson (Birda Billings), wife of Representative Robinson Mrs. Herbert B. Maw (Florence Buehler), wife of the Governor of Utah Mrs. W. H., King (Vera B. Sjodahl), wife of former Senator King Miss Ethel Evans, fiancee of Senator Elbert D. Thomas Mrs. E. B. Brossard (Laura P. Cowley), wife of President Brossard of Washington Stake Mrs. Emest L. Wilkinson (Alice Ludlow) wife of the first counselor, Washington Stake Mrs. J. W. Marriott (Alice Sheets), wife of the second counselor, Washington Stake Mrs. R. A. Gwynn (Gwendolyn Thomas), President, Washington Stake Relief Society. Mrs. Lynn B. Lundberg (Elese Barlow), First Counselor, Washington Stake Relief Society Mrs. W. T. Thurman (Zettella Wheeler), Second Counselor, Washington Stake Relief Society Mrs. Walter K. Granger (Hazel Dalley), wife of Congressman Granger, had also been invited, but due to absence from the city, was not present. RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN RECEIVED AT THE WHITE HOUSE 725 GREETING CARD WHICH WAS PRESENTED TO MRS. TRUMAN Mrs. Gus P. Backman (Nance Davis) joined the group at the White House. Leaving the hotel, the group drove to the White House. Through Governor Maw, tickets, each one inscribed with a particular woman's name, had been issued. The card issued to President Spafford read: Mrs. Belle S. Spafford Will please present this ticket at the northwest gate THE WHITE HOUSE May 2, 1946 11 o'clock a. M. Not Transferable These tickets admitted the party to the grounds and also into the White House, where they were taken up by the doorman. Upon entering the White House, an attendant ushered the women into the gorgeous Red Room, so named because of the elegant red satin tapestry wall coverings, matching draperies, and the deep red tones in the floor coving and furnishings. It was an exciting, tense, serious moment for the women, as they awaited the arrival of Mrs. Truman. It is not a common experience for anyone to be received by the First Lady of our Land, and, for this group, 726 serving as Relief Society representatives, it was a first time. Al] keenly sensed, at that moment, their responsibility toward Relief Society. On the mantel in the Red Room was a rare, old clock that had been Presented to the White House by Thomas Jefferson. Just as it chimed the hour of eleven, an attendant announced Mrs. Truman. As she entered the room, everyone arose. She wore a neat black dress with street length skirt, the blouse having a white lace front, Mrs. Maw stepped forward, introduced herself, said a few words of greeting, and then introduced the First Lady to each of the women in turn. Utah women were very proud, that moment, of Utah's First Lady. Poised, friendly, attractive, she well represented our own beloved State. Mrs. Truman cordially shook hands with Courtesy, Acme Pictures, Inc. FIRST LADY RECEIVES RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS each one, exchanged a few words of greeting, then bade everyone to be seated. A few moments of informal conversation followed. At an opportune moment during the conversation, President Spafford, indicating that she had brought from Relief Society women, as a token of esteem, a gift for Mrs. Truman, arose and made the presentation. As she did so, she briefly explained the work of this international Society of Latter-day Saint women. Mrs. Truman graciously accepted the gift, asking if she might open it ~a request to which President Spafford readily assented, since most of the group had not Previously seen the tablecloth. Mrs. Truman carefully undid the wrapping. Then, lifting the cloth from the box, and draping it artistically over her extended arm, Gwendolyn T. Gwynn; Zettella W.