Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 4 Observing a Principle of Prosperity Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, February 25, 1947 "The earth is full and there is enough and to spare." Our Heavenly Father has provided well for his children upon the earth. The things which are necessary for our well-being have been placed here in abundance, and we can all enjoy the good things of the earth if we practice certain proved principles. Sound economics are essential with individuals as well as families if they are to enjoy prosperity. The Value of Work FORTUNATE are those children who learn early in life the satisfaction that comes from work well done. Young people should learn that they must work for what they get in life whether it be knowledge or material things. "By the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread" was one of the first commandments given to man. The Creator knew that work is essential for the welfare of the human race. Latter-day Saints have always been taught to labor and to be industrious. The Prophet Joseph Smith once remarked: "There is no place for an idler in the Church except that he repent and mend his ways" (See Doc. And Cov. 75:29). A great injustice is done to the youth who is deprived of the privilege of learning to work. Parents who impose no duties upon children make it difficult for them to compete later on with those who have learned, in their early years, to work. Habits of industry will stay with the individual throughout his entire life. It is often simpler to hire work done or to do it oneself than to have a child do the work. But, by following the easier way, a child's training is neglected. A wise mother insists that her daughter help prepare the evening meal, even though she knows it would be easier for her to do it than to train her daughter. While this training takes time and patience, nevertheless, it is the mother's responsibility. Art of Saving One of the most valuable habits children can acquire is the habit of saving. It is essential to a successful life. Saving seems to be a knack with some people, but it requires 'practice, as does any other habit. Saving means putting aside a portion of one's earnings systematically, no matter how small the amount. The amount saved is governed by the spending, as well as the earnings. The important thing is for a 786 References Through the Ages, pp. 192-206. ? _ Talmage, James E: Vitality of Mormon A Rational The LESSON DEPARTMENT family to decide that they will consistently save and put something away for a future day. The time to begin is now today, with whatever amount can be spared. In order to save regularly, there must be a plan that the whole family will agree to. Some part of the earnings must be set aside at pay periods. Extra money that is earned should be added to the savings account. If the small items are watched, such as money spent on shoe shines, movies, candy bars, magazines, and other incidentals, it will be surprising how fast the balance accumulates. In some families children are given money for birthday gifts. This money is added to ' their individual savings account each year. Over a period of years, this amount will grow to a considerable sum. Satisfaction will come to the entire family if they see 4 savings account growing as a result of united effort. Later in life this money can be used to very good advantage? for missions, college education, 4 new car, vacations, Of perhaps to meet unforeseen emergencies. Waste and Extravagance As a nation we are extravagant and wasteful. Waste is sinful and contrary to Latter-day Saint beliefs, both for the conduct of our individual lives and likewise of our government. It has been said that "Investigation will place at the head of causes of poverty, wastefulness inherited from wasteful parents." This '5 a serious indictment to parents who should always set an example of thrift and economy. The average American family, we ate told, wastes as much food each meal as is 787 consumed by family. The American garbage can is a national disgrace. An officer of one of our large cities recently made a survey to see how much food was being wasted. His survey of discarded food in cans in the better sections of town, as well as in the poorer sections, revealed in both instances that great quantities of food were being wasted slices of bread, scraps of meat, vegetables, and various other items being thrown away. Our wasteful habits must be corrected, particularly at this time, when millions of people in the world are going hungry. It is often the case that families with limited incomes use Poor judgment in buying. Especially ls this true of food buying. Prepared foods, pastries, and knickknacks are often in economical purchases. Welfare food agencies are constantly besieged for prepared cereals which are considerably more expensive, and often less nutritious, than cooked cereals. This is but one example. There are also millions of dollars worth of half-worn clothing hanging in the closets of American homes. This is a wanton extravagance when it is realized that minor alterations in style and renovating could give the clothing utility. A European peasant Wise Spending and Living Within One's Means The prosperity of a family de pends to a large extent on the way the income is spent. Unwise spending is the cause of much embarrassment and anxiety and causes family disunity. It is just as necessary to know how to spend as it is to know how to save. "We save carefully that we may spend wisely." Money wisely spent brings joy and happiness. "He who both saves and spends money is the happiest man because he has both enjoyments" (Boswell, James: Life of Dr. Johnson). Knowing how to use money, how to buy, what to buy, and when to buy is very important. One of the grave dangers facing many of our young people today is their inability to handle money. They do not know the value of a dollar because parents in too many cases have not trained them in the wise use Of money. Wages have been high and "easy come easy go," is a homely but true adage. Newly married couples can undermine a happy marital existence through unwise spending on the part of either. In these days of rapidly increasing costs, more attention must be given to budgeting; and young married people, particularly, should know how to budget their funds. It should be understood that the purpose of a budget is to enable one to tell money where to go instead of asking where it went. We are coming into an era of installment buying on a scale surpassing any hitherto known. Easy-payment plans and high-pressure salesmanship have been the cause of much financial unhappiness. Since this is an age of high-pressure methods, people trained in the art of selling appeal to the public through clever