[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 401 | Article | Eastward From Islands | Margery S. Stewart]
6 Eastward From Islands Margery S. Stewart Bind me with your winter wheat Fields under the austere cliffs. Hold me by all chains Of remembrance and duty, Lest I, seduced by beauty, Live as the hibiscus for one day. Remind me of eternity, Pierce my eyes with splendor Of all precepts and all holiness, So, wounded and broken, I return, Nor among thorn hedge burn In the glowing ashes gray. Lash me with bitter winds, Scar me with grinding hours, So I live to see morning Rise like a shout among cloud rifts, Sun melting ice drifts And the dark chains away. Break me with burden and bond. Dissolve me not With summer and sound. The Cover: Mount Hood, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Farm Scene in Colorado Photograph by Arizona Photographic Associates Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far How thrilled I was to see a picture of my mother and her co-workers in the Note From the Field from Sydney Stake (Australia) in the February Magazine. It has been eight years since I left my home, but some of the faces were still familiar. I would like to thank my mother for sending me a gift subscription to the Magazine. Nita Ehmann Olsen Ogden, Utah I have now received my fourth issue of The Relief Society Magazine, which has been a great source of strength to me, and adds much happiness and wonderful ideas to a newly married couple. Julie Tall Marshall Orem, Utah I wish to express my appreciation for all the work that goes into our Magazine. My mother gave me a year's subscription when I married, and I have very happily renewed it twice since. As we presently live thirty miles from the nearest church, I am unable to attend Relief Society, and miss both the lessons and the fellowship of the sisters. Last year I was homemaking leader and organist. Now I find that the Magazine helps to fill the gap that exists in my week, and I am glad to be able to study the appropriate lessons. I was thrilled to read the address by Elder Harold B. Lee in the January issue, and I took his counsel to my heart. Jeanette Miller Verona, Tasmania, Australia We thought my picture was so nice (hobby feature, October 1966) that my husband rushed out and got a nice little frame for it. I have received many letters, even from people not of our faith, saying how pleased they were to see it. Hestella Kuttler Pocatello, Idaho A friend sends me The Relief Society Magazine. This has gone on for years. What a gift it is! I am not of your faith, but I enjoy this publication. It is so refreshing to read stories, editorials, and poems that stand for what is basically good and beautiful. I especially like Dorothy Clapp Robinson's stories. Mrs. Wm. A. Hopper Boise, Idaho I have just finished reading the wonderful story "Tell Me of Love" (serial, concluded in February 1967), by Rosa Lee Lloyd, and must tell you how it has inspired me. The Ridgehaven family was such a credit to their Church and to their country, that the story has actually helped me to face my own life and its problems with new courage. Seldom have I read a story with so much verve and suspense. I am sure everyone is looking forward to Mrs. Lloyd's next appearance in the Magazine. Marva Cain Memphis, Tennessee When the hustle and restlessness of modern living patterns are broken down to a minimum, I take joy and pleasure in reading The Relief Society Magazine. Here in the mission field, one doesn't have much time for literature concerning life and the sublime incidents which occur therein, and so I always take pride in the Magazine, for it lends me renewed spirits and disposition. Elder Markus Zimmer Berlin, Germany The Relief Society Magazine certainly has added much to our home. There are many, many wonderful suggestions for keeping an orderly home, with the love, understanding, and beauty of the gospel. Darla J.