[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 467 | Lesson | Roy | W. Doxey]
SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Elder Roy W. Doxey =» Last year the structure of the lessons for this department attempted to involve the members of the Relief Society to a greater degree by pointing out pertinent discussions in the lesson material. In addition to this device being used this year, the format of the lessons is changed to emphasize one major principle in a section of the Doctrine and Covenants rather than to discuss all or most of the contents of the revelation. We will continue to include, however, as much material concerning the background of the revelation as seems necessary and also to emphasize as much of each revelation as is pertinent to the one principle. With the change to a one-principle lesson, it seems necessary that each person read the entire section to enjoy further the spirit of this book of scripture. The abbreviations in earlier lessons will be used. The one abbreviation that might give new teachers and readers a question is DHC. This abbreviation means Documentary History of the Church, which is also known as the seven-volume History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints by Joseph Smith, Jr. During this Relief Society year the spiritual living lessons cover a four-year period from April 1834 to April 1838, using eight of the twelve revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith during this period. One section, written in 1835, which is an opinion on government, is to be studied in another year. Historically, then, this four-year period, as far as these lessons are concerned, includes the Zion's Camp expedition of 1834; in February 1835 the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Quorum of the Seventy were organized; the Kirtland Temple was completed and dedicated in 1836; the extension of missionary work across the ocean to Europe occurred in 1837; and in 1838, with the Church more perfectly organized, it received its official name by revelation. Theologically, one lesson conAGT June 1967 siders the concept of building Zion upon the earth, the major principle revealed in the dispensation, as the objective of all Latterday Saints. This lesson points out what is necessary for each member of the Church to do that this goal may be realized. Another lesson revolves around the manner in which the saint is blessed by sustaining those who preside over him. The Kirtland Temple dedicatory prayer, though it was a special one, gives many prayer principles which the members of the Church may find profitable for use in their own prayers. Another lesson concerns the wonderful events that occurred in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836. These events have tremendous bearing upon the eternal salvation of men. Knowledgeable Church members have come to love the principle of humility as it is revealed in the scriptures, for he who lives this principle has the windows of heaven opened to him in many ways. The 1967-68 series of spiritual living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 81—tThe Lord Will Provide for His Saints (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 104) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns that the Lord will provide for his saints, but it must be in his own way. Lesson 82—Preparing for the Redemption of Zion (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 105) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns from the experiences of the saints in former days under persecutions brought on by transgressions, that she must be obedient to present-day commandments if she would have a part in the redemption of Zion. Lesson 83—The General Authorities (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns of the Lord's organization of the General Authorities of his Church and recognizes the inspiration that guides them. Lesson 84—Sustain the Brethren (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 108) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is blessed as she observes her vows and sustains the Brethren in authority. Lesson 85—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer) (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman analyzes the dedicatory prayer given by revelation to enlarge her understanding of proper entreaties to the Lord to assist her in her own praying. 468 Lesson Previews Lesson 86—The Restoration of the Keys of the Priesthood (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110) ~ Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman rejoices in the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood and resolves to accomplish the duties imposed upon her by the restoration of the keys. Lesson 87—'"Be Thou Humble" (D&C 112:10) (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 112) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman views her own life in light of the commandment to be humble with the great promised blessings resulting therefrom. Lesson 88—The Church and lts Purposes (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 115) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman examines herself to see if the purposes of the gospel are fulfilled in her life that her light may be a standard to her family and associates.