[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 432 | Special Feature | The Holy Family (Andrea del Sarto) | Floyd Breinholt]
[The Holy Family (Andrea del Sarto) Floyd Breinholt]

It was long past eleven before everyone else was spelled (Continued on page 460

) 431 -- se ecep—ntmineepem m The Holy Family by Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531), Italian (Rome, Galleria Nazionale) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 2 "Honesty, a Measure of Life." Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. = If one will study the paintings of any sincere artist he will find that in a very real sense the paintings are portraits of the artist himself—not of his physical likeness but of an indefinable quality of his whole personality. The subjects he chooses, the way he uses the paint, the parts which are emphasized, the content he selects are all fused together and we see something of the artist. This is not done consciously if he is sincere, but it is inevitable and unavoidable. Just as a man's handwriting speaks of his character, so an artist's work mirrors his personality. This is true in the work of Andrea del Sarto, known as ""The Perfect Painter" by the Florentines of his day and whose character is so aptly described in Browning's poem. Art historians seem to substantiate what Browning says about him. Worldly splendor and vivacity had come into the life of his time. He was impressionable and sensitive to his time and thus was able to reflect this culture in his work. Although not necessarily religious by nature, he painted religious subjects to please the court and has been referred to as a "religious court painter." He had great honor in his day. We sometimes tend to deify men because of their works—artists are still men with strengths and weaknesses. Andrea's strength was in his great talent and craftsmanship, his ability to say what he had to say. There are a sweetness and underlying note of pathos and tenderness that give his work a genuine character, although perhaps not the greatest. Vasari, an artist, writer, and pupil of del Sarto's says, "Had this master possessed a somewhat bolder mind, had he been a more distinguished man, qualified by character as he was by artistic skill, he would have been without equal."' Lack of force and conviction in his nature took ardor and animation out of his creative works. Can you see Andrea del Sarto in his painting of "The Holy Family"? This is a good example of his work in which he uses the classical Renaissance style— soft, warm light, rich color, unified tonality, and the chiaroscuro (strong use of light and shade) for which he was noted. The model for the Madonna was no doubt his beautiful wife Lucrezia whom he idealized in many of his paintings.