[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 404 | Special Feature | Emma Ray Riggs McKay Emma Rae | McKay Ashton]
Berl Typens, Pennsylvania
 Photograph by Lignell-Gill Emma Ray Riggs McKay as a young wife and mother MOTHER LOVE Emma Ray Riggs McKay When you were a girl in the long, long ago, With no cares except lessons, or maybe a beau, Were you asked by a neighbor,_a-very dear friend, To be with her babe and your services lend? With your arms about baby in tender embrace, Examining each line of its dear little face, As it dropped off to sleep under your rhythmic line, Did you ever say lightly, ''l wish it were mine''? And when you were married to that handsome beau, Who courted you gallantly years, years ago, And God blessed you with babies with eyes brown and blue, With features of yours and your husband's, too, Did your soul burst with happiness, satisfaction, and joy As you gazed with fond love on the face of your boy? As you sang to it, crooned to it, thought it divine, Did your heart throb the murmur, ''I'm thankful it's mine''? And, then, as the years hurried happily on, And the mates of the children in time came along, When you held your first grandchild pressed close to your heart, Did you wish for one like him—to make a new start? No! Woman's life is divided in three in life's test— Maidenhood, motherhood, then self-culture and rest. As you look on the forms of the grandchildren nine, You're content to say glowingly, ''! Love them as mine."

Emma Ray Riggs McKay ness. By doing tasks well in her Faas Ray learned to be immaculate in her housekeeping. There were socks to mend, sewing to be done, and the weekly washing and ironing to do. These latter tasks were the most difficult. First, the clothes were soaked overnight, then boiled in lye water on top of the stove and, finally, scrubbed by hand on a washboard in a metal tub of homemade soapsuds. Ironing, an all-day chore, was accomplished with heavy flatirons heated on top of the stove. On many hot summer days, Ray stood pressing long, full petticoats, with the coal stove burning fiercely, perspiration dripping down her face. It's a wonder she didn't faint. A rich pioneer heritage was hers and she delighted in listening to the story of her grandparents' conversion to the gospel in the East. Desiring to join their fellow members of the Church in Salt Lake City, the John Robbins family had two choices: one, to travel by land across the plains, or two, to sail with the Sam Brannan Company by boat around Cape Horn to San Francisco. They decided to go by water. With spirits high, they boarded the ship Brooklyn, not dreaming it would take them six months to complete their journey. Two small sons were buried at sea; a baby daughter was born on the Pacific and appropriately named Anna Pacific Robbins, who later became Ray's aunt and the mother of Nell and Bell Barrett. Love for the gospel was instilled in Ray as a child. The family was taught to be consistent in saying individual and family prayers and in attending Sunday School, in the Seventeenth Ward chapel. Her testimony developed through Church activity. At seventeen, after completing a teaching course under Dr. George H. Brimhall, she taught Primary in her ward. Two years later she became a Sunday School teacher. She loved to teach. Before she was graduated from college, she did some substitute teaching in one of the elementary schools. Her pupils cried when she had to leave. Recently, a woman who was a member in her class at that time reminded her of this experience and remarked that she had never forgotten what an excellent teacher she was. Ray was about eighteen when her mother called to her one day to look out of the front room window. Joining her mother, Ray was impressed by what she saw. Two tall, handsome young men, each holding an arm to help their mother up the walk, were accompanied by their two younger sisters. "See, Ray, how attentive the boys are to their mother. They will make fine husbands for some fortunate girls someday." While attend- 

409 June 1967

 ing the University of Desert, these young people were to be tenants of her mother's home for the next two years and were to be numbered among Ray's best friends. Little did she realize then that six years hence, the dear friends would be her brother and sisters, and David O. McKay, the dearest one of all, her beloved, lifelong companion. Ray, too, was attending the University of Deseret. One day as she was walking down a corridor she heard someone speaking. Noticing the door of the room ajar, she stood in the hallway and listened to a talk given by young David O. McKay before the Normal Society. That young man will amount to something someday, she thought to herself. N June 1897, David O. McKay, president of his class, was graduated from the normal school and was chosen to be the valedictorian. During the commencement exercises, Ray, thrilled by his words, wondered whether she would ever see him again. She was overjoyed when, in July of that same year, Jeannette and Ann McKay invited her to Huntsville to attend David O.'s missionary farewell, and she willingly accepted. That evening after the program, David O. Walked Ray from the chapel to the McKay home, holding her hand all the way. They agreed to correspond while he was away. The month of August found Ray busy and worried as she took care of her ailing mother. It was a bitterly sad August 29, 1897; Ray was heartbroken; her sweet mother had passed away. Later in life, when she was Utah's Mother of the Year, Ray paid a sincere public tribute to this capable woman: '"My mother set me a wonderful example, for she had to the 'nth degree all of the qualifications required by the Golden Rule Foundation for a good mother—courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability." Followi