[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 424 | Fiction | General Features Editorial: The 137th Annual General | Church Conference]
[General Features Editorial: The 137th Annual General Church Conference]
General Authorities Mary V. Cameron Kathryn S. Gilbert were present at the conference, alton ae ae ee with the exception of Elder Harold Fanny S. Kienitz Alice C. Smith B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, Flzabe ae pameacis who was confined to his home due Alice L. Wilkinson Zelma R. West to illness. Irene W. Buehner Leanor J. Brown; Irene C. Lloyd Reba 0. Carling In his opening address, President McKay emphasized the responsibility of the Church and its individual members in helping to combat the pervasive social evils of the present day. 424 mi Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Wi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Blanche B. Stoddard = Belva _B. Ashton Alberta H. Christensen Lenore C. Gundersen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Cleone R. Eccles carried to Hawaii for the first time by use of the satellite "Lani Bird," in orbit 22,300 miles above the two of the sessions, Thursday television in his apartment. His Darlene C. Dedekind three eloquent and vital messages were read by his son Robert R. Among the glaring evils of our day are two which seem to be most detrimental, and which must be curbed if we would preserve true Christian ideals. These are: First, an increasing tendency to dishonor the marriage vow; and Second, the moral decline and the mounting juvenile delinquency.... The mission of the Church is to minimize and, if possible, eliminate these evils from the world. It is evident that we are in-need of a unifying force to eliminate these evils. Such a unifying force, such an ideal is the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It explains man's life and its purpose, and has within it the vital saving elements, noble ideals, and spiritual! Uplift for which the human heart is yearning. President Hugh B. Brown, in speaking of the divinity of the spirit, declared: Revelation is unfolding truth, whether in... The human mind, or a message from the Creator. It is the infinite becoming known. Death is not extinguishing the light but putting out the lamp because the dawn has come. Night never has the last word. The dawn is irresistible.... That the Savior conquered death, after having taken upon himself mortality, gives us the divine assurance that our spirits also transcend death, and that our loved ones who have gone before still live. Our spirits are divine, for they are the offspring of Deity—therefore cannot be touched by death.... Life is the absolute power which overrules all else There can be no cessation. President N. Eldon Tanner spoke of the uplifting and saving power of love, patterned upon the mission of the Savior, and exemplified in the lives of noble men and women throughout the ages: If we are to have this love of which the Savior spoke, and which he emphasizes as being the most important thing in life, it must begin in the home and then carry into our daily lives. A happy marriage is never handed to a couple on a silver platter, but it is something that we have to build continually. If each will think of the other's comfort, convenience, needs, and happiness, and determine to see the best in each other, try to understand and express love for each other, there will be true love and harmony in the home.... As we look over our life, whether it be short or long, we realize that the thing that gave the greatest joy was doing something for someone else because we loved him. President Joseph Fielding Smith counseled all members of the 'Church to express their love for the Savior by obeying his commandments. There was only one way of redemption, one way in which reparation could be made and the body restored again to the spirit, and that was_ by an infinite atonement, and it had to be made by an infinite Being—someone nat subject to death, and yet had the power to die.... And so, our Father in heaven sent us his Son Jesus Christ, into the world with life in himself.... He could yield up his body to death and then take it again..... So his infinite atonement resulted in two things: (1) restoration of the body to the spirit, and (2) the redemption of those who accept the gospel of Jesus Christ and who will be foyal in the keeping of his commandments—freedom from their own sins. At the close of the conference, President McKay pleaded with the saints to keep the counsel and the messages, ''on the tablets of our memories." Let us make God the center of our lives. That was one of the first admonitions given when the gospel was first preached to man. To have communion with God through his Holy Spirit, is one of the noblest aspirations of life. It is when the peace and love of God have entered the soul, when serving him becomes the motivating factor in one's life and existence, that we can touch the lives of others, quickening and inspiring them....