[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 464 | Lesson | Summer Months Sewing Course Discussion IV | Eleanor Jorgensen]
then make another layer of each. Pour remaining sauce over all. Place in 325° oven for 30 minutes or until bubbly hot. Just before removing, sprinkle a little cheese on top. Sometimes I add peeled, toasted chili strips to this casserole—the kind you get at any grocery that carries Mexican canned foods. I often substitute chopped chicken or pork for ground round. The nice thing about this casserole is that it tastes just as good the next day. Note for all the casseroles: A good rule to remember is to stop using the tortillas when there is about a cup of sauce left in pan. If you have a cup of sauce to pour over all, it will assure you a nice, moist dish. GREEN TOMATO ENCHILADA 20 or more little green tomatoes oil or butter, as desired (the kind with jackets on) 2 doz. Tortillas (approx.) 1 small green hot chili (optional) 1 cup grated cheese (approx.) 3 medium-sized onions about 2 cups leftover roast or boiled 1 avocado (optional) meat (torn into fine strips) 1% pint sour cream parsley Boil tomatoes (jackets removed), onions, and chili in small amount of water. When tender, put in osterizer (or blender), until thick. Salt to taste. Fry tortillas as explained above. Dip in sauce; put a little of meat in center. Roll and place side by side in casserole. Make two layers. Pour remaining sauce or 1 cup of sauce over top, then the sour cream. Sprinkle with cheese and leftover meat. Place in moderate oven for about 30 minutes. Remove and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and place slices of avocado on top. Serve immediately. This casserole has a different taste and is delicious. 462 Variations of the Tortilla CHEESE, CHICKEN, AND TORTILLA CASSEROLE 1 barbecued, roasted, or fried chicken (1 usually get mine at my _ favorite rotisserie.) 5 to 10 little green onions—use part of the stems, too. 1 large can creamed chicken soup, diluted with about 34 can (1414 oz) of milk 1 cup grated cheese (I use a mild cheese.) YY cup chopped celery—if you like celery. About two dozen tortillas cut in strips and lightly browned in shortening, butter or substitute. Cut tortillas in medium-sized strips. (I cut about five at a time, using my sharpest butcher knife and cutting board.) Brown lightly in shortening. Sauté chopped onion and celery in a little shortening. Blend chicken soup and milk well. De-bone chicken and cut in bite-sized pieces. Place browned tortilla strips in casserole, then the sautéd onion and celery, then the pieces of chicken and grated cheese. Pour chicken soup over all. Place in moderate oven for 30 minutes or more. When the budget is low, omit the chicken, and add a little more cheese and onion. If the mixture seems a little dry before you put it in the oven, add a little more canned milk. TACOS tortillas—usually 3 per person meat—left over roast, chicken, pork lettuce—shredded or cut very fine sausage, or ground beef tomatoes—chopped fine cottage cheese—small curd frozen cooked peas or canned peas dairy. Sour cream or sweet cream grated cheese 1 small can taco sauce green onion—finely chopped Fry tortillas as described above, only this time double in half and fry a little longer. Place tortillas on paper towel to drain and keep warm. In each tortilla put cooked meat that has been torn into little strips or the cooked ground meat. Add about a tablespoon of cottage cheese or cream; next, a spoonful of peas, then a little chopped onion, tomato, and lettuce, and, last, a sprinkle of cheese and a spoonful of taco sauce. Now comes the fun part—hold. Tightly with both hands and eat immediately. Good luck or, as we say in Spanish, ''buena suerte." TOSTADAS There is very little difference in the above type of taco and the tostada, but to some the difference is important. The tortilla used for tostadas should be a day old and should be fried until crisp. The day you cook beans, remember to set aside a quart full (not much liquid—nearly all beans) to make tostadas. When the beans are a day or so old, place them in a frying pan with a cube of butter or butter substitute. While they are cooking, mash them until they become a paste. This is called refried beans and is delicious alone, especially if you add a little cheese and fet it melt in the beans. Now take about a tablespoonful of the refried beans, spread over top of the crisply fried tortilla, then place any kind of cooked meat in small pieces on top of the beans, then the finely chopped lettuce— very fine, remember—then next you should place a bit of soft, crumbly, fresh cheese on top (a white cheese). This may be hard to find in some areas. If so, substitute cottage cheese; small curd. Salt to taste. Spread a little cream on top, if you like it juicy, and it is ready to eat. Tostadas and tacos are for strictly informal affairs—but what fun, and oh, so good! And as we say in Latin America "'buen provecho," or "happy eating." 463 LESSON DEPARTMENT HOMEMAKING Development Through Wy Homemaking Education Dr.

Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion [V—Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1967 Southern Hemisphere: February 1968 Objective: To learn fundamental procedures in setting in a basic sleeve. INTRODUCTION The set of the sleeve is one of the most important earmarks of a professional looking garment. Since the sleeve is sometimes 1%" to 2" fuller than the armhole into which it is to be sewed, it is necessary to ease and mold this fullness to fit the upper arm and shoulder so that it will be free from tucks and gathers, thus giving the curve of the armhole a smooth appearance. Different methods for sewing in a sleeve may be used, but they all must give that quality look when completed. Standards for a wellfitted, plain set-in sleeve show that (a) the crosswise grain at the base of the sleeve cap is parallel to the floor, (b) the lengthwise grain is perpendicular to the floor and falls in a vertical line from the high point on the shoulder to the elbow, (c) the curve of the armhole is stitched so that it follows the normal curve of the body, (d) the sleeve is balanced so that it hangs evenly, (e) there 464 are no diagonal folds or wrinkles on the top of the sleeve or underneath at the armpit, (f) the sleeve is large enough to prevent binding at the upper arm, yet free from a puckered or puffy look in the armhole seam, (g) it must not look as though the dress had been eased onto the sleeve. PREPARATION The entire sleeve cap is ease stitched by placing one row of stitching exactly on the hemline, sewing while the sleeve is flat and right side up. This places the bobbin thread on the wrong side of the fabric. The stitch is lengthened slightly. The sleeve seam may then be permanently stitched and pressed, and, if desired, may be hemmed before it is set into the armhole. 'This, of course, would not be done until the sleeve length and general fit had been checked. The sleeve cap requires ease to.. Mold and fit the upper arm and shoulder. Therefore, clip the bobbin thread at the front and back notches and draw up the ease, distributing it to give an even appearance. There is very little ease, if any, across the top, but more is found where the sleeve is bias. It is at this point where care must be taken to prevent too much fullness. SETTING IN THE SLEEVE Turn the garment wrong side out, placing the sleeve into the armhole so that the right side of the sleeve matches the right side of the garment. Pin the two garment sections together at the underarm seam, top of the shoulder, front notch, and back notch, remembering to hold the sleeve side toward you and to place the pins at right angles to the seamline. The sleeve must fit the armhole along the seamline, so that any adjustments can be made between the top of the sleeve and the notches. Best results will follow if the full side of the sleeve is worked over the fingertips. It may be necessary to place one or two additional pins to help hold the edges, but try to avoid using more than six or eight altogether. It may be advisable at this stage to baste (either by hand or machine) the sleeve into the armhole and check the way it hangs before permanently stitching it. (Figure 1) STITCHING The garment is placed under the machine so that the sleeve side is up. To reinforce the lower portion of the armhole, two rows of machine stitching are used. Lesson Department Begin the stitching at the back notch and continue sewing around the armhole until the starting point is reached, then continue on to the opposite notch. This gives a double line of stitching (one on top of the other) on the lower part of the armhole only. Since the ease stitch on the sleeve was made exactly on the seamline during the preparation, the permanent stitch may be sewed one thread inside the ease line. If there is difficulty in holding the ease in place while permanently stitching the armhole, it may be necessary to hold 'the fabric "off grain." This is done by placing the forefingers opposite each other in front of the needle at each side of the pressure foot and pulling the top layer of fabric outward with the fingertips as the machine sews. (Figure 2) FINISH Trim the armhole seam to 14" and finish according to the type of fabric. Pinking is suitable on many fabrics. The seam allowance on the under part of the armhole (from notch to notch) is trimmed down to 3%". The narrower seam gives more room, is comfortable, and prevents binding. The armhole seam should not be clipped. Cutting the seam allowance down to 4%" on top and 3%" underneath serves the same purpose as clipping without weakening the seam. (Figure 3) For sheer fabrics, a false French seam is used and is made ¥," wide all the way around the armhole. If the sleeve has been set in properly and the seam naturally turns toward the sleeve, it isn't necessary to press it. However, if 

465 June 1967

 (Figure 1) Setting-in the Sleeve = (Figure 3) Trimming and Finishing The Sleeve (Figure 2) Stitching the Sleeve (Figure 4) Attaching Bias Strip To Maintain Roll at Sleeve Cap (Optional) pressing is desired, with sleeve side up (wrong side), press the armhole seam, allowing the iron to extend into the sleeve about Ye" to 4". This will help retain the natural roll the sleeve should have rather than a flattened look. Some fabrics need more attention than others in achieving a soft, smooth round look over the cap. To help maintain the roll at the cap of the sleeve, cut a bias strip of self-fabric approximately 466 114" wide and 6" long. Match the edge of the bias to the sleeve seam edge, then attach it by hand over the cap of the sleeve, stitching as close as possible to the sleeve line of stitching. The addition of the bias helps to fill in spaces where there is too much ease. (Figure 4) All seam edges turn toward the sleeve when finished. Note: If self-fabric is too bulky, use another fabric, such as outing flannel.