[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: LABOR IN LITERATURE. | Author: many of the “small harpers with their glees,”]

﻿LABOR IN LITERATURE.

	Verses to which a journalist will cheerfully al-
low space in his daily local paper, may be dashed off
by many of the “small harpers with their glees,”
as a pleasant way of killing an idle hour. But
Tennyson was ten years writing “In Memoriam.”
Thomas Grey was, in his day, one of the finest
scholars in Great Britain, and perhaps unsurpassed
in Europe. Very brief is the poem to which he
mainly owes his celebrity, and which will keep his
memory green and fragrant as long as the English
language lasts. It may be read through in five
minutes, but Grey was seven years in elaborating
it. Upon his death bed Daniel Webster called for
this poem. The gallant Wolfe, when, under cover
of night, transporting his brave men to the mem-
orable heights of Abraham, broke the solemn silence
which pervaded the boats, by repeating stanzas of
the “Elegy in a Country Churchyard,” and finished
with the exclamation, “Gentlemen, I would prefer
being the author of that poem, to the glory of beat-
ing the French to-morrow.” Perhaps these words
were prompted to the devoted soldier by the invol-
untary reflection which Rufus Choate expressed,
when he said, “The only immortality is in a book.”
But Grey’s is no solitary case of scrupulousness in
literary work. At the town of Ferrara is still
treasured the ancient scrap of paper upon which
Ariosto wrote one of his stanzas—the description
of a tempest—in sixteen different ways before be-
coming satisfied with it. That stanza is one of the
most celebrated among Ariosto’s remains.
	Petrarch surpassed this. One of his verses or
stanzas he re-wrote six-and-forty times; and Tas-
so’s manuscripts so abound in alterations, that they
are illegible to other people’s eyes. Montesquieu
once remarked to a friend, concerning a particular
part of his writings: “You will read it in a few
hours, but I assure you that it has cost me so much
labor that it has whitened my hair.” Newton,
despite his great intellect and huge stores of learn-
ing, found within himself patience to write his
“Chronology” sixteen times over. Gibbon wrote
out his “Autobiography” nine times, and gave
twenty years’ toil to his “Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire,” When the late Dr. Buckland
was preparing his “Bridgewater Treatise upon Ge-
ology and Mineralogy,” he made such numerous and
frequent changes in the composition, that his wife
copied part of it for him nineteen times, and pen-
ned four separate copies of the whole work. It
was a favorite theory with Goethe, and on this point
the meditative Coleridge agreed with the many-sid-
ed German, that power to conjure up lively senti-
ments is in no measure lost as men grow in years;
whereas ability to utter them forcibly is vastly in-
creased by practice. In harmony with this opinion
was his course in regard to Faust, which he took in
hand at the age of twenty, and completed in the
full maturity of three score years and ten.—“Mary
Granger in the Old Curiosity Shop.”


﻿Queen Victoria Witty.—An amusing but
amiable witticism is attributed to the Queen,
which, in its way, is almost good enough to
have been uttered by one of those recog-
nized humorists who have occasionally adorn-
ed thrones. Some one at court had spoken
disparagingly (of course) of the hostile criti-
cisms pronounced by Sir Charles Dilke on
the civil list. “It is strange,” Queen Vic-
toria is said to have replied, “for I remem-
ber having him as a boy on my knee and
stroking his hair. * * * * * * * I
suppose," added her Majesty, after a mo-
ment’s pause, “I must have stroked it the
wrong way.”


The Toronto Globe claims that Canada,
with a population about equal to New Eng-
land, has in its domain 864,635 children an-
nually, while New England has but 17,561.


[Column 1]
