[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Poem | Title: The St. George Temple (Poem) C. L. Walker]

The St. George Temple. Lines composed for the 22nd Anniversary of the First Baptism, January 9, 1877, in the St. George Temple. Respectfully inscribed to Elder David H. Cannon, President of S. George Temple. [By Solicitation.] Thrice weloome, Saints of latter days, To mingle words of prayer and praise, Who've met responsive to the call: Thrice welcome! Peace be unto all! Yes, welcome to this Holy Shrine! Welcome to tread its courts divine! Let joyous be the sacred tread Of all who labor for the dead. Yes,  for the world was framed of God, 'Twas planned to build this blest abode, A House of holiness and peace; Where millions yet may gain release. No wonder that the realms on high Reverberated songs of joy, For anthems, grand in theme, were sung; The echoing worlds, glad praises rang! How grand the song  Angelic Host! Praise Father, Son and Holy Ghost, And distant worlds caught the refrain, And chant His praise, again, again. And why these songs of joy so great, By those in pre-existent state? It was because they understood The offering of the Son of God. We favored few assembled here. The precious words of Christ did hear: "Here am I, send me," He cried; "Amen!" Celestial Hosts replied. He came, and as on earth He dwelt, He prayed, and to His Father knelt: "Thy will be done, O God in me. That I the captives may set free." 142 RELIJlISOClLiTY MAGAZINE. And by His suffering on the cross, An ordinance vicarious, By which vast hosts in prison gloom Were freed from monster Death and Tomb. What made the Sons of God to, shout, Who viewed salvation brought about By Christ the Lamb of God  our Head? Free to the Living and the Dead. With eye prophetic they.did gaze On temples built in latter days; They prophesied, on Zion's Land Thousands of temples yet would stand. They saw the work immensely great, To be performed in this estate, For those who prayed, nor plead in vain, For Christ to break the captive's chain. He rose triumphant from the grave. With healing in His wings to save, Diffusing light through prison gloom, Proclaiming victory o'er the tomb. And shall we here, who hold the keys Grow careless oft, and take our ease? Whilst those with pitying accents pray "Oh God! Oh God! when is my day?" Then when we get behind the vail. And hear our kindred's broken wail, They'll meet us with reproachful looks. With unfilled blanks in temple books. No vain regrets, no lame excuse. The day is past, we can not use. Earth-life again, tho' brief, we'll crave. In earnest work our dead to save. 'Tis awful when we meditate The harrowing thought, too late, too late! No grief, remorse, nor floods of tears Will then atone for mis-spent years. Then let us all fall into line. Make hay, while all is yet sunshine, Our life is short, not guaranteed; Then, while we live work for our dead. THE ST. GEORGE TEMPLE. 141 Shall I relate to you a theme  Of one who had a certain dream? He dreamed of opportunities well used, Of others he had oft enthused. He dreamed the records he had made Proceeding from a joyous throng, Who greeted him with tender care His home assured to mansions fair! He dreamed the Records he had made On Earth, while working for the dead, Were graved on diamond tablets bright, Above the brilliant noon-day light. The work, well done, I will ensure Will be accepted; yea, for sure 'Tis sealed with Heaven's divinity, 'Midst the archives of Eternity. And we shall be the favored ones. Inheriting those glorious thrones, By virtue of those blessings sealed Of God, to Joseph Smith revealed. The work is great, immense, sublime,  There's millions waiting for the time When friends and relatives on Earth, Will bless them with baptismal birth. The time may come, as some supposed, When all the temples will be closed: For even now, men would engage The hosts of Hell, to vent their rage. What tho' through persecution rife, We're called to leave this chequered life. Sweet consolation God will give, Tho' dead, our temple work will live. God bless the Saints assembled here! Their friends and relatives most dear. God's blessings rest upon this shrine, And all engaged in work divine. And may we here, all live to see, God's power, and might, and majesty Pisplayed, his Kingdom, bringing forth "Good will to men, yea, peace on Earth!" C. L. Walker. a By Mrs. Clarissa Smith WiUiatns. Liberty Stake. The sisters of the Liberty Stake are doing remarkably good work in the Red Cross activities. Some of the women who feel unable to do special Red Cross or surgical dressing work have volunteered to take care of other women's children while they are attending the classes. It is reported that they made 400 surgical dressings in one week. Ji'oman Suffrage in Germany. The German women are clamoring for their civic liberties, in spite of the war conditions which have measurably silenced the otherwise restless German socialists. The women, however, refuse to be silenced and their new activities demand new civic liberties. It would be strange indeed if the German women brought about the collapse of the German military' machine and dethroned the Kaiser. The women of France and England are in training for every possible labor and position which has been held during the ages by men only. The government recognizes the inevitable necessitv for supplying the broken ranks of male workers with trained women, and with that end in view, both of these countries have opened schools to educate women in all lines of endeavor, while special places are provided for them to bring their children and have them cared for while the mothers are at work. What is the world coming to? Sleeieless Sweaters. In answer to a number of calls we give here the Red Cross directions for knitting the sleeveless sweater.