[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. New Stake Organized. The Montpelier stake, Idaho, was organized December 23, 1917. This stake was formed of twelve wards taken from the Bear Lake and Rich stakes. Edward C. Rich was named as President. The following are the Relief Society presidency and officers: President, Agnes Pearce; first counselor, Elizabeth Quayle; second counselor, Permillia Clark; secretary and treasurer, Mary J. Swensen; chorister, Angie Arnold; aides, Phebe Christie and Elizabeth Cook. REORGANIZATIONS. Eastern States Mission. Miss Elizabeth Thomas has been appointed President of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States Mission, succeeding Miss Margaret Edward. Miss Thomas is manifesting a great interest in her work and will no doubt maintain the high standard set by Miss Edward. North Weber Stake. On account of her removal from Ogden, Mrs. Lucy A. Steers was honorably released from her position as President of the North Weber stake. The presiding authorities were very fortunate in being able to secure, for the position vacated by Mrs. Steers, the services of the former Stake President, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott. Mrs. Marriott was appointed to this position on Thursday, January 24, 1918. s of the origin and evolution of German names and gives a general surname history. It also includes a list of German names of old Virginia settlers, which were changed in this country. The book was commenced the latter part of March, 1917, and completed before August. Information was gathered mostly from the German books of the Genealogical Library (outside the translation), from research and actual experiences of the author, and from the series of lessons given under the direction of the Genealogical Society and the General Board of Relief Society. The money for printing the books was raised by a loan from two German sisters and from advanced subscriptions. One thousand copies have been printed; price 50 cents apiece, 55 cents postpaid. The books are sold at the Genealogical Society of Utah. Cottonwood Stake. The Cottonwood stake Relief Society held their monthly officers' and teachers' meeting on Tuesday, January 29, 1918. 
 There were 150 in attendance. Among the reports was that of Red Cross work. In all of the wards of this stake, the women are holding all-day sessions every Tuesday. The forenoon is devoted entirely to sewing for the Red Cross and the afternoon to the regular meeting, where the lesson work is considered. Liberty Stake. A very interesting story comes from the Liberty stake, where a dear grandmother takes her knitting and goes regularly to the home of a young Relief Society woman to tend the babies and knit for the soldiers while the young mother goes to the Red Cross to make surgical dressings. Portneuf Stake. Mrs. Dicy W. Henderson, president of the Portneuf stake Relief Society, reports that the stake has arranged with the University of Idaho to have the University demonstrator, Miss Bullock, spend a month in the various wards of the Portneuf stake talking on Home Economics and demonstrating war foods. Tahitian Mission. One of the most interesting yearly reports received by the General Secretary is that from the Tahitian Mission, where Venus R. Rossiter is in charge of Relief Society work. The average attendance in this mission is almost two-thirds of the membership and is the best that has been reported so far this year. There are several unique items in the letter which are delightfully interesting. Mrs. Rossiter writes: "The work is progressing very nicely in this field. You will notice we have organized one more society since last report and have a steadily increasing membership. Also a marked increase in all activities. "The sisters have been very enthusiastic the past year making quilts and weaving hats and also diving for pearls to increase their funds. "Each society has bought a chest of medicine for the use of their respective branches, the ministration of which is under the supervision of the white elder in charge of the branch. "The native sisters were delighted to see their picture published in the Magazine, and were also very much pleased with your letter which I translated and read to them in our October conference." Report of the Relief Society of the Tahitian Mission for the year ending December 31, 1917: NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 157 Paid for charitable purposes $ 88.75 Days spent with the sick 177 Special visits to the sick 417 Families helped 23 Bodies prepared for burial 9 Burial clothing prepared 9 Number of visits by stake officers 48 Assistance to missionaries $ 84.00 Funds raised for special work 172.00 Money on hand 158.00 Membership  Officers 17 Members 92 Total 109 Admitted to membership during the year 24 Removed or resigned 1 Died 4 Number of meetings held 213 Average attendance 70 Number of Relief Society organizations 5 New Zealand. President Emmeline B. Wells has just received a very interesting letter from Mrs. Annie Atkin in far away New Zealand. Mrs. Atkin writes that there are about 2,000 Maori Saints in this mission. She states that better tithe payers cannot be found in the Church than among this people. The Maori Agricultural College is about to open for a new term. Elder Welsh, who is particularly competent in teaching agriculture, will be the new president. The attendance at this school is usually seventy-five students, which is the accommodation limit of the College dormitory. The Relief Society in New Zealand is well organized in most of the branches, the women working along much the same lines as Relief Society members do at home. President Emmeline B. Wells' Birthday. In order to express the love and respect of all the members of the Relief Society, the General Board will hold a reception in honor of the ninetieth anniversary of the birth of President Emmeline B. Wells, at the Hotel Utah, Feb. 28, 1918. The general authorities of the Church, all Relief Society workers, and Mrs. Wells' friends will be the guests of the occasion.