[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. 179 CONSERVATION OF CHILD LIFE Throughout the earlier phases of civilization human life was held in small account. There was little or no fear of death, and the sacrifice of life was readily made or demanded for reasons which appear to modern minds trivial, cruel, and purposeless. And if the worth of adult life was thus lightly esteemed, child life was still less regarded. Among the Greeks and Romans full power was vested in the father to decree the immediate death of his children at birth if no addition was desired to the family; or, if a tender infant were likely to cause inconvenience to the household; or, if it were a girl, and, for this reason, held to be merely a useless source of expense and trouble. Then the ancients learned the vicious lessons of "birth-control" which godless people are even now trying to spread abroad in every nation. That the rate of mortality among young children throughout the ages has been very high, is confirmed by all the records of the past, as these become increasingly available: widespread ignorance of their needs, gross mismanagement, painful severity of discipline, premature and exacting work, careless, even intentional, exposure to the "common" infectious illnesses, so specially fatal in the first ten years of life, are causes responsible for much suffering and many premature deaths. Yet, is the civilization of today very materially ahead of those responsible for these conditions in the past? Take this country, for instance. Attention has been already called to the annual loss of 600,000 potential citizens before or very shortly after their birth; a second fact, little if any more creditable to existing conditions is this: of fifteen million children in the public schools of the United States, ten million are in immediate need of medical or surgical assistance: and, even were this skill placed at their service without delay, these children can never possess the full vitality or capacity for resistance to adverse conditions or disease which would have been the case had their strength never been taxed by the ailments nine tenths of which are wholly preventable. What is essential to healthful childhood? In the first place, healthy parents; hence the stress laid today upon the right of children to be well born. What is done to train our young men and girls to consider their far reaching responsibility when they assume the dignity of parenthood? What is taught them at the time when their mutual attractions of man and maid are strongest as to the deadly results of the racial poisons (alcohol, or venereal diseases)? What applications are made of sufficient force to counteract rising emotions on the subject of transmitted tendencies to nervous instability or tuberculosis? Yet these considerations are fundamental to healthful offspring. 
 In a recent report published by the Russell Sage Foundation the statement is made that 37.5 per cent of all the preventable deaths in this country at all ages are due to some form of tuberculosis, but that another 34 per cent are deaths of infants due to the equally preventable causes of diarrhoea and bronchopneumonia. If the first figures are startling, the second are appalling; for the conditions under which babies live under two years of age are actually more controllable than at any other age period. Ignorance, inertia, carelessness, supreme selfishness are primary causes for this grievous wastage, one and all inexcusable in the 20th century. A common cold may produce very severe symptoms in a baby, even death, and so undeveloped is the power of resistance to everyday forms of bacteria that a high rate of infant mortality is usual where bad housing, overcrowding, and poor sanitation aggravate ignorance. Yet, in 1916-17, the infant death-rate for England and Wales was only 92 per thousand births, at a time when doctors and nurses were very hard to get and millions of mothers had to "do their bit" in factory, dockyard, and field; in the same year the corresponding rate in Baltimore was 214 per thousand. The chief reason lay in the careful instruction given over several years in the 700 Schools for Mothers scattered over Great Britain and in the skilled supervision of trained visitors (not trained nurses). Perhaps also, the war necessity for the simplest and plainest food helped some. The Russell Sage Foundation Report ("Relative Values in Public Health Work") already quoted, further states that 30.5 per cent of all preventable deaths in the United States are due to the four contagious diseases of children, measles, scarlet fever, whooping cough, and diphtheria; please note the use of the word "preventable." The resisting power against such infective diseases is poorly developed under ten or twelve years of age, and even where the child recovers, it will carry scars of greater or less severity throughout its life. Not necessarily "scars" such as result from bad cuts or burns, diseased glands (though the latter are not uncommon), but such scars as deafness or defective eyesight, lung or heart delicacy, kidney susceptibility, nervous debility in its myriad forms, or even arrested mental development. Many a child which has learned to walk will lose the power during an attack of measles or a bout of whooping cough; many a boy or girl full of promise in early childhood will struggle through diphtheria to be numbered ever after among the "dullards" of school and college; the brain development of a child of twelve may be seriously, even permanently, checked by a severe attack of scarlet fever; or, when the stress of puberty, maternity, or business catastrophe, falls on the subject of these maladies in after GUIDE LESSONS. 181 years, the nervous system may bend or even break. Whereas, had it never been subjected to these poisons, a magnificent capacity to resist strain would have been the happy lot of its possessor. In the third place, the needs of childhood must be so "ground into" the public mind, and a health conscience must be so cultivated, that public opinion will stand behind the existing minority in their efforts to secure to each human soul the physical and moral conditions essential to its normal development prenatal as well as postnatal. The fact is inadequately grasped that in return for the advantages, the protection, the freedom, of a great Republic, each unit of its vast population carries weighty obligation and is morally bound to contribute, each according to his ability, to the prosperity, strength and progress of this nation. Such return is not usually possible till after middle life; certainly for the first twenty years each citizen is an investment, not a lucrative asset to his commonwealth. Consequently it is the bounden duty of parents to bear their children, naturally and normally, then to rear their families to a vigorous maturity; otherwise their fellow citizens may justly reproach them as a source of weakness, not of strength, to the population. To enumerate the needs of children is surely superfluous. There are dozens of books and hundreds of instructors always at hand to enlighten ignorance, if it exist, which seems almost incredible. It is parental conviction strong enough to neutralize selfishness or inertia which is wanted; it is community cooperation powerful enough to remodel conventional customs which is needed; it is a civic conscience so sensitive that it will no longer tolerate conditions prejudicial to childhood, which calls for cultivation. The regular simple food, the long hours of quiet, regular sleep; the sensible clothing, the suitable play, the well considered training, the healthful habits which are each child's birthright, will be ensured to him by the parents who believe that to rear a human being calls for intelligent preparation more than does the rearing of a calf or a chicken. QUESTIONS. 1. What reasons may be given for the low value placed on child life? 2. What factors are essential to healthful childhood? 3. What diseases are most fatal to children? 4. In what ways may these diseases handicap children who recover? 5. How would you propose to develop a more general attention to the needs of children? 6. What law should govern the number of children born to parents?