[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Suggestive Programs for Anniversary Day Morag]

Suggestive Programs for Anniversary Day. MARCH 17, 1918. By Morag. The seventeenth of March is an anniversary that should be celebrated throughout the world, wherever the Relief Society is organized. It is good to meet together on such occasions to commemorate in song and story and thanksgiving the wonderful day when the door was opened for women by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Wherever the celebration is held, whether in the home, the ward or the stake, let each active member of the Society see to it that she is responsible for the attendance of one or more friends or neighbors and let our slogan be this year, as it was given in early days, "Every virtuous woman, a Relief Society member." PATRIOTIC CELEBRATION. Hymn, "Oh, Jesus the Giver." Invocation. State song: "Utah We Love Thee." Roll Call. Extracts from first minutes. Brief report of year's work by president. Solo, "Keep the Home Fires Burning." Five minute talk on Conservation, with report of what your Society has done. Address on War Gardens for 1918. Song, "The New Freedom Song." (August, 1917, R. S. Magazine.) Address, "The Red Cross Work." Flag salute and oath: "I pledge allegiance to the Flag, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for all." Song, "The Star-Spangled Banner." Let the secretary call for those to stand whose ancestors fought in: 1. The Revolutionary War. 2. The Crimean War. 3. The Civil War. 4. The Spanish-American War. 5. Those who were Utah Pioneers. 
 6. Those who were Handcart Pioneers. 7. Those who were Members of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Also find out: Who planted war gardens last year? Who will plant war gardens this year? Who have signed Hoover food cards? Who are Red Cross members? Who own Liberty Bonds or War Savings Certificates? Who have members of their families in the U. S. service? If refreshments are served, see that they conform to the Hoover standard. Here is a novel entertainment for a Relief Society choir. The invitation: The Relief Society choir of the Ward would like to invite you at a musical party to be held at (Time and Place). You will be entertained by Music Program The Bells (and Belles) Ladies' Quartette "Bells of Aberdovey" Reading "The Bells" (Poe) Story "The Bells of Atri" (Longfellow) Piano "Chimes" selection Song "Those Evening Bells" (Girls in evening costume) Tableau "Those Morning Belles" (Same girls in work dresses) Story of Tableau.... The Goddess of Liberty "Liberty Bell" Tableau.... Belles of Long Ago (Music, "Sweet, Charming Bells") Tableau Scotch Belle (Music, "Blue Bells of Scotland") Tableau Convent Bells (Nun) Duet "List to the Convent Bells" Tableau.... Wedding Belle (Music, "Wedding March" Lohengrin) Tableau Belle of the Future (Baby) "Star-Spangled Banner (Tableau and Song) SUGGESTIVE PROGRAMS. 
 March 1 is the birthday of President Wilford Woodruff and his wife Emma Smith Woodruff. This month let us spend an hour in considering some of the wonderful achievements and missionary labors of this great leader in Israel, and of his faithful companion. Materials may be gathered from any Church history, while many homes contain Life of Wilford Woodruff, or Leaves From My Journal, autobiography. Speak of his wonderful industry, his simple life, undaunted faith, his remarkable escapes from death, and achievements in the missionary field, his prophetic gifts and undaunted loyalty to the truth, etc., etc. Sister Woodruff will be remembered as a Utah pioneer, a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, for many years associated with Sister Bathsheba Smith as a temple worker, and as the president of the Granite Stake Relief Society. Her solid worth, her industry, her extreme humility, and unflinching fidelity to the work of the Lord, endeared her to all who associated with her. President Woodruff's favorite hymn was, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." BIBLE READING FOR MARCH First Epistle to the Corinthians. Second Epistle to the Corinthians. Galatians 1-3. One chapter each day. GREETINGS. This office is in receipt of kindly greetings from Hilo, Hawaii, and from Cardston, Canada. Elder Russell Rossiter laboring in Hilo sends a charming calendar and booklet, while Elder Sterling Williams, counselor to Pres. E. J. Woods, sends a fine colored calendar.