[Vol24 | January 1937 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]
Work and Business Sire Covers (See "Handicrafts for Every Woman" p. 47
Uses. LIP covers have become a part S of home furnishing and decoration. When they are put to proper uses and in harmony with other articles, they give a very delightful effect. They can be used the year around if both warm and cool colors are chosen. Slip covers serve many purposes. They may be purely decorative, but more often they are for furniture protection. They are taking the place of tidies and doilies, and are much more practical. More comfort can be taken in the easy upholstered chair if simple, plain washable and well fitted slip covers are used. Slip covers prolong the life of the new furniture. The thrifty homemaker can make slips to protect and cover worn places, and in this way extend its usefulness, when a purchase of new furniture is entirely out of the question. Selection of Materials. First take into consideration the room. For bedrooms, percales, creton, plain Indian head and chintz in small and dainty figures. For living rooms, more dignified conventional cretons, plain and blocked linens. For dining room, waterproof ginghams, percales, cotton crash, Indian head in colors, monks cloth. For the sun parlor or porch bold stripes and figures may be used. Before purchasing, when possible, it is a good idea to get the store to send samples of one or two yard lengths, in a variety of materials to lay over the furniture to see which is best for the room before one makes the purchase, Always try to buy the best material that can be afforded. The inexpensive pieces fade both in light and laundry. As a rule they are filled, and soon wash out, making them look clumsy and cheap. Better colors and designs are found in the better grade fabrics. Even though they cost more in the beginning they are pretty as long as they last. The heavier the material the smoother they fit and the less wrinkles they have. Some good materials are: rep, crash, cotten damask, galatea, drapery sateen, handblocked linen, denim, and tapestry. These offer a wide range of color and pattern. Besides harmonizing with the walls and floor covering, slip-covers should be selected in good taste. For example large rooms and large pieces of furniture require fabric of smaller design and lighter texture and color. The surface of the cloth should be smooth to keep dust from sifting through, also free from loose lint. Glazed chintz and cambric muslin in bright colors lend a cheerful atmosphere to a room. Articles To Have Slip Covers.. Living room furniture, all upholstered furniture, dining room chair seats, bedroom chairs, foot stools, cossak, also pads for straight chairs. Steps To Be Taken. OR the construction of slip-covers an estimate of fabric and the yardage should be very accurately taken to determine the cost. Fasten one end of the tape measure to the lower edge of the chair 

  frame at the center back, measure to the top of the chair, across the top and down the front of the back along a straight line, over the seat and down the front edge. Always add four inches for tucking in along the back of the seat in case there is shrinking in laundering; also add six inches for seams and finishing at lower edges. For the arms fasten tape measure at the seat and bring up over the arms to the outside edges. Be sure sufficient allowance is made for all seams. If material has large figures. Or has an up and down pattern additional yardage must be purchased. If the slip-cover is finished with a pleated or gathered ruffle more cloth will be needed than for a plain cover. For gathering fullness allow twice as many widths as the chair measures and three times as many for pleating, multiply the number of widths by the desired depth of the ruffle to obtain the total amount needed and make additional allowance for hemming and matching the pattern. Thus, for a seven inch gathered valance on a chair 42 inches are required and at least a half yard more must be allowed for hems and matching, It is advisable to shrink all washable materials before making. Well fitted slip-covers require a placket or opening. Its position depends entirely upon the piece of furniture that is being covered, and upon the types of fastenings being used. Snaps, hooks and eyes or buttons, allow an opening to gap if much strain is put on it. Fit covers closely. OOSE cushions should be covered separately and the covering should be the same style as that of the cushion. Covers for box cushions must be made boxed and never made merely by sewing two pieces of cloth together. The kind of seams depends largely upon material used? French or bound seams. For class room demonstration take a small bedroom chair or article not too large to handle. Pad with worn out quilt or blanket or any soft material. First cut paper patterns for back, arms and seat by laying paper over surface and fitting as near as possible. For the first time in making slip covers cut a try-slip cover by using worn out sheets or just any old material. Sew and fit on chair very smoothly. Rip open your tryslip cover and use for the pattern to lay on your new material. Cut, sew and fit before the class. Show in class samples and prices of materials which are suitable for different types of furniture. Reference. Text Book, "Handicrafts For Every Woman," on Slip Covers, page 47. U. S. Department of Agriculture Leaflet, No. 76, on Slip Covers. Where possible get furniture stores to demonstrate slip covers.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 55
