[Vol24 | January 1937 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Report on International Lyman]
Report on International Congress
By Amy Brown Lyman
COUNSELOR Amy Brown Lyman represented the Relief Society and Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association at the International Council of Women's Triennial Meeting, held at Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, September 28 to October 9, 1936. She sent a very exhaustive report of her trip and the meetings, some portions of which we print herewith.
WHEN it was decided to hold this meeting in Yugoslavia, the Yugoslavia National Council thought Dubrovnik would be a much more interesting place than Belgrade, the Capital, because it is a typical medieval city, centuries old, and the old part of the city is as it has always been. Belgrade, on the other hand, is a new modern city since the war. It was literally destroyed at that time and has since been practically rebuilt. It is called the modern concrete city of Yugoslavia.
Dubrovnik, however, does not have enough hotel accommodations nor transportation facilities to take care of such a convention. Dubrovnik, anciently known as Ragusa, was founded in the seventh century. It was one of the smallest republics that ever existed. It is located on the beautiful Adriatic Sea backed by huge mountains. The old wall is from thirty to forty feet high. It is intact and surrounds the city in a circular form from the mountains on one side to those on the other. There is a tall tower in the center of the city which was used anciently as a "look-out." And on one of the side walls there is a huge arsenal. The main street, King Peter Street, is about as wide as one of our avenues and is about one mile long. The other streets are all narrower?not more than eleven feet wide. They are all paved with stone. The rest of the place in this city is occupied by tall dwellings which look like great tenements all joined together. Each family owns its own suite of rooms. Wagons and automobiles are not allowed in the old city. The streets are too narrow and the people are too numerous. The food, merchandise, etc., are hauled about in hand-carts. They did, however, allow Lady Aberdeen's car to drive down the main street to our meeting places. You enter in the city through a beautiful archway. The main buildings are the Doge's Palace, which, it is said, rivals the Doge's Palace in Venice, the Bishop's Palace, two old Cathedrals and the Theater. On every hand are beautiful archways and sculptured friezes. The theater resembles very much the old Salt Lake Theater with its parquet and three circles, the latter made up entirely of boxes which are all completely separated and are entered each by its own respective door. The boxes each hold six people. The old market, almost in the center of the town, is still used and is most interesting. The newer part of the city is built outside the walls and looks much like any ordinary city. Most of our meetings were held in the old city, in the Theater and the Town Hall. The committee meetings were held in a modern normal school building outside the wall.
 
Business hours in Dubrovnik are from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. The banks open for the public promptly at 4:00 p.m. During the noon recess the people eat luncheon and visit. In the evening they promenade through the main street, and you cannot imagine anything gayer and more colorful than King Peter Street at night. It is here that young people meet in their Sunday best clothes, dance, fall in love, etc.
