[Vol24 | January 1937 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: The Home]
Some tell us that a new order of society is in the making, that eventually marriage and the home as conceived in a conservative past, are doomed to disappear. Judging from statistics on crime and divorce daily presented in newspapers and periodicals, one is sometimes tempted to believe such is the case. However, there occasionally arises a clear voice facing the facts and having optimism for the future. Abba Hillel Silver, in his book, Religion in a Changing World, says, "To form a judgment of the average American home based solely on the numerous instances of impermanence and infidelity which obtrude themselves upon our attention or are chronicled in the public press, is altogether unwarranted. The millions of American homes are still sound. Love and fidelity and the spirit of self-sacrifice have not yet entirely vanished from the dwelling places of our people and around millions of firesides the sanctities of life still hover. There are still vast reserves of spiritual and moral strength in the American home and one need not anticipate its early liquidation. . . . On the other hand, it would be the sheerest folly to assume that all is well with the American home. All is not well with the American home. The American home is in ferment. It is passing through the preliminary stages of a new adjustment made necessary by the new conditions of life, and like all adjustments, it is attended by pain, suffering, and tragedy. The American home is being attacked by new social, economic, and intellectual forces, and it has not yet perfected the strategy with which to meet the new conditions." While admitting certain changes are always necessary to meet new circumstances even in the home, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints still teaches the sanctity of marriage ties and the reverence for womanhood as taught by the Christ. We are in thorough sympathy with the words of a certain English writer when he says, "There is no such championship of the right of woman to an equal place in the sun in her own right as that of Jesus, and, if we knew the whole truth, we should see that He is not only nearer the ideal, but also nearer the facts of the case. For the Christian, at least, the thing that counts is a woman's soul; the salvation of the man who loves her depends upon his respect for what is eternal in her."

3. Christ and the Samaritan Woman.

Some of the most charming episodes in the Gospels are references to the Savior's talks with women. Therein is pictured His appreciation of the worth of their souls even when they themselves were known to be sinners. One of these incidents is given in the Gospel of John (4:5-42) where He is presented talking with the Samaritan woman at the well. The Christ and His disciples, hungry and spent, reached Jacob's well near a place called Sychar. The disciples went to the town to buy something to eat, leaving him sitting at the well. While thus preoccupied, a Samaritan woman came to draw water and the Savior asked her for a drink. The woman was astonished, for as the story indicates, "Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans." But she found the Christ to be no ordinary Jew. He broke down, at one stroke, the false barrier that prevented the ordinary normal association of two of God's children. Thus He paved the way for a Gospel conversation that showed his love of her eternal soul. He knew the woman was a sinner but she was reminded of it in a most gentle way. There is no instance in the Gospels in which the Christ chides a woman with the severity he used with certain men.

4. Mary Chose the Good Part.
