She Vastness of Space Katherine P. Walton When I'm alone beneath the stars That fill the sea of space; When I behold the powers that are— That man cannot efface; When I am told that in these realms, Beyond the region of our eyes, Are countless worlds that seem to us Like specks of light amid the skies; That farther on, out into space Beyond our vale of stars, Surrounded by celestial light Are greater worlds than ours; That farther onward to the end Where end is not in sight Are worlds revolving 'round their suns, With stars and moons and light. Then I can feel the power of God 'That permeates through space, The promptitude of all his works For all the human race. Limitless lies the space behind, Unmeasurable lies beyond; There is no end to space or time, There is no end to man. There is no end to powers that be, Or creations such as these; There is no first, there is no last In God's immensities. The things that have forever been And will forever be, Are held together by this force Throughout eternity. The powers that keep us on our course Are in this wondrous plan, To bring to pass eternal joy, And eternal life to man. The Cover: Sheep Grazing in a Green Paddock, New Zealand Photograph by Whites Aviation, Ltd. Submitted by Arta R. Ballif Frontispiece: The Salt Lake Temple Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom lear and Sar Congratulations on the wonderful December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. 'The sisters here in Finland were so thrilled with the pictures.... Our Relief Society is growing and the sisters love this great work. Each branch gets a copy of the Magazine with some translations from it. We also send a Relief Society Magazine to several members who are shut-ins who read English. We are grateful for the subscriptions that are sent to us. —Hortense B. Robinson President Finnish Mission Relief Society The first prize poem 'Remembering the Handcarts," by Christie Lund Coles in the January 1957 issue of the Magazine is an excellent poem and I enjoyed it very much. The articles and stories also were interesting to me. I enjoy the entire Magazine and share it with many friends in the valley who are not subscribers. —Mrs. C. W. McCullough Park City, Utah I enjoy my copies of The Relief Society Magazine very much. There is always an article that helps me in preparing talks for different occasions here in the mission field. Most of the time I have to hurry and read the Magazine so that I can take my copy to some good investigator who wants to know more about our women's organization. I am so proud of your new building, since it is a perfect example of the effort of organized womanhood with the holy Priesthood at its head. I thank you for a wonderful Magazine and for the joy it brings into my life each month. —Elder Phillip R. Kunz North Augusta South Carolina To former Counselor Velma Simonsen: I never have had the privilege of meeting you, probably never shall. But you do write such sweet, tenderly natural and heartwarming messages that you just sweeten and warm our hearts. —Annie P. M. Hepworth Salt Lake City, Utah Page 146 I have just read "So Dear to My Heart" in the October 1956 issue of the Magazine. I used to live in West Jordan, too. What a wonderful picture she gave of that lovely old chapel. —Ila Tanner Arcadia, Utah The December issue of our Magazine is beautiful and most enlightening. I want to share my happiness and pride with friends.... I have been a member of Relief Society for fifty-six years and love the work more and more each year. The Magazine has been one of my guiding stars. I can remember reading the Exponent to my grandmother (who was blind) when I was thirteen years old. —Sara J. P. Bell Los Angeles, California Congratulations on a very fine Magazine. My husband and I always read it together. As president of a small branch in Sweden, my husband had good use of the Magazine in teaching the good sisters. —Birgitta Mitchell Kooskia, Idaho I enjoy Relief Society very much and have been a visiting teacher for the past nine years. I particularly liked the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The pictures and messages of the wives of the General Authorities are lovely. —Sarah Marble Brigham City, Utah I think you are doing a fine job, as I see the Magazine every month since my wife is a subscriber. I want to take this opportunity to send you our very best wishes for continued success. —Otto Done Mexico City Mexico We are four generations of subscribers to The Relief Society Magazine. It is wonderful, and we could not do without it. We read it from cover to cover. —Yuline Neilson South Gate, California

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - ~ - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Elisworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 44 MARCH 1957 No. 3 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES Women. Are Worshipers of God ooo cee cecececeeeeeeceeeneeeceeeceeeee. Levi Edgar Young 148 Helen Woodruff Anderson Appointed Second Counselor 2. EeeAlberta H. Christensen 150 Hulda Parker Named General Secretary-Treasurer tceeccccseeeeeeeec cenceCaroline Eyring Miner 154 Mary Vogel Cameron Appointed to General Board oii eee cece ceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeVesta P. Crawford 156 Afton W. Hunt Appointed to General Board oooeeieecececccesseetceeee ee ceseeeeeeseeesececsaeneeeeeeeEdith S. Elliott 157 Velma N. Simonsen Retires From General Presidency escecce-ccseeeeceeneeeeessBelle S. Spafford 158 Margaret C. Pickering Resigns As General Secretary-Treasurer - 0 -2000---Leone O. Jacobs 159 The New Zealand Mission ooo.. Ccc. Ceec cesee ceeeeccceee ce ceseeescseseescceseessuceeeeneccesseascseececeeeeeeesPreston R. Nibley 166 Vera Hinckley Mayhew— Biographical Sketch oo. Cceeeceecececce ceceeeesseeeeceseseesscecsenseneeeennececeseees w.. 179 1 oA aie 180.. Ramona W. Cannon 182 oneVirginia Glenn 187 aeJune Nielsen 188 Stratford-Upon-Avon and the Shakespeare Memorial Theater The American National Red Cross ooo ei vane Be a Relief Society Magazine 'Promoter'.. Embellishment ooo tcecccecceecssneeeneseeeeecceeeesceeeceseeneeeeee a oeClarissa A. Beesley 190 ButteETCUpS 20.0 cecceesesncceecsneencecececececaneueccssousnacecensecseseesesssceenecesesssenseuasenerseeneecceusnenseceseaesoeeMary C. Martineau 194 FICTION The Slow Hurry—Third Prize Story oo. CcecececseecececeseseccseenceccccseeessecesteccesecserenseeesVera H. Mayhew 160 The Bright Star—Chapter 1 oo ccc cecececceececeeecceoceceeeeecossenenscesecenseesecceseaseccasecesceneeesDorothy S. Romney 168 Bitter Medicine—Part 3—Conclusion 20.2 cece. CceeseccceceesecceceaseceseecscenteeesecrteecceasseesceeeeeaeeesOlive W. Burt 196 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far ouie.. Eessceccsssececececeecescecessceeeseeceeceeesecsensacsoseseecsonsaeteceneeceesesaneee. EE.. 146 BY SS AO ona cannes ccc n cence nena ne naveneneevenneeennevesaeenneceseceatersunavereverceteresntepeacecasersnesnnanunneannesns 172 Woman's Sphere nn cesses eceneessssneeneesnetsnessesnesssessnsccceneessssneesestumeeaeeneeacsoneeneesinensssseenseRamona W. Cannon 173 Editorial: Relief Society Legacy for Young Women oo. Ii. N.. EeccececccccsecceeseceeceececececeeceeceeseeeeJune Nielsen 174 Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music Over National Broadcasting Television Network o2 cc. Cccecceceecccscsecccceecccccneececceceseeccaceceacenceseececensaececeseseeseecueeeneees 175 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue o.. Ee. Cccccccccccccceeececccceeccececeecceseseecenasneacecececereee 176 Notes to the Field: Index for 1956 Relief Society Magazine Available @220 eccecceeececceeseeceteeeeeoe 177 Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Mission Relief Societies for 1956 177 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 00.0.0 occ cceecceccessscssessesecstenessseeeescsesensesesessnesecesseeseeeeses 201 Birthday Congratulations ooececccceecccccccscccececcecesececseessecssoseeesssseucesecenenaesssassecsssessesssiseessenueestasecasssseseseseesiessuese 209; FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes from New Zech oo. CeececccceccescecsssscscseseeccsssecesesseseecseseeseseceesensesesesassesnsssaveceneatsneneneseenesArta R. Ballif 192 Sarah Seely Larsen Has Enjoyed a Sewing Hobby for Seventy Years EE 195 Herbs for Modern Cookery—Tarragon oioec. EcescssseccsessesecsseeeeseceesesecscesensosssseceseeneeElizabeth Williamson 207 POETRY The Vastness of Space—Frontispiece, Katherine P. Walton, 145; Preface to a Calendar, Lael W. Hill, 151; I Had Forgotten, Catherine E. Berry, 171; These Things I Love, Helen H. Jones, 176; World-Changer, Maryhale Woolsey, 179; Spring Opening, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 181; The Whitethroat in the Grass, Ethel Jacobson, 181; Apricot Tree, Della Adams Leitner, 187; My Fortune, Enola Chamberlin, 189; Preface to Day, Dorothy J. Roberts, 191; Wind Pattern, Vesta N. Lukei, 195; The Length, Frances C. Yost, 200; Not By Chance, Gene Romolo, 206; Window Gardens, Gladys Hesser Burnham, 208; Robin, Evelyn Fjedlsted, 208. 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 16, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Women Are Worshipers of God President Levi Edgar Young Of the First Council of Seventy House and riches are the inheritance from fathers: and a prudent wife is from the Lord. (Proverbs 19:14) Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. (Proverbs 31:10) HEN Adam was sent to the \¢ eatth by his Father in heaven, he was not alone, for a woman became his companion and her name was Eve. Both words are Hebrew, and Adam reminds us of our lowliness and mortality. We know that God gave him a perfect human body, as he did Eve. They were placed on this earth in the Garden of Eden. They had children and one reads their history in the opening book of the Holy Bible and the books that follow. "The first leaf of the Mosaic record," says Jean Paul, "has more weight than all the folios of men of science and philosophy." "And he is right,' says Geikie, "for we owe to it the earliest and grandest revelation of that first principle of all religion—the existence, the unity, the personality, and the moral government of God." It is said that more books have been written on the first chapter of Genesis than any other subject known to man. One may well accept the truth of this statement, for it deals with God and the creation and man's divine origin. From the beginning of human history, God the Father in heaven has walked with and talked to his children. In writing and thinking about the history of Israel, we must always remember that religion was Page 148 the principal motive in all they did. Unshaken faith in God was the chief characteristic of the old patriarchs and prophets. Faith came as a result of their knowing they were children of God. When Moses received the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai, he gave the message of God to the children of Israel who were marching to Jerusalem and the Promised Land. Women were the first to pledge obedience; the men followed, say our sages. 'The commandments established law as the center of Jewish life. One of the most scholarly historians of Judaism is George Foot Moore who tells that the earliest expositors of the law declared that man and woman are equal before the statutes. 'The authority for this statement is a sentence in the fifth commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother," and in a later statement found in the book of Leviticus, "Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father." It is written by Professor Moore that, "The legal status of women under Jewish Law compares to its advantage with that of contemporary civilizations and _ represents a development of the Biblical legislation consistently favorable to women." In that far distant age, even when Rome ruled, Palestine was a part of the Roman Empire. WOMEN ARE WORSHIPERS OF GOD The Jews had their synagogues and women took part in holy service. We learn that the "Mother Synagogue" gathered the women together, and gave the women their duties. To some she gave cloth to sew that no maiden in Israel might go to her husband lacking a bridal chest. A Jewish Code has come down to us giving a description of the duties of women. 'They are: Feed the hungry, and give the thirsty to drink. Clothe the naked and shelter the homeless. Visit the sick, bury the dead and give comfort to the mourner. Support the widow and _ instruct the fatherless. Ransom the captive. Make garments for the orphan and provide for the betrothed maiden. We are told that legend throws this code back to Abraham to whom it was revealed. When it was read to the people at the foot of Mount Sinai, they exclaimed, "We _ hear and we obey." OME of the most beautiful stories of all time are found in the Holy Bible. In fact, the Bible becomes the masterpiece of history in giving us the story of the peoples before Christ, our Redeemer, was born. Concerning women, we find in the Bible women of the truest nobility. The Book of Ruth is considered the most beautiful short story ever written, and then we have, to mention a few other women: Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel, Deborah, Esther, Martha, Mary, Mary Magdalene, Naomi, and the Queen of Sheba. These women "form the most remarkable female portrait gallery in existence." 149 The beautiful idyl known as the Book of Ruth, is a story of a family that lived in Bethlehem. 'There came a famine over the land at one time. The fruit of the orchards dried up and the fields yielded but a scarcity of harvest. Much suffering came to the people everywhere. One Elimelech with his wife, Naomi, went off to greener fields into the land of Moab. 'They had two sons who grew up among the strange people of Moab. In time they married two Moabite maidens. Sorrow came to the house of Elimelech, for the father and the two sons died, and the three widows were left unprovided for and unprotected. Naomi decided to go back to her people in Bethlehem. She did not expect the sons' wives to go with her, but Ruth chose to follow the mother, and the two made their way around the Dead Sea, and came to the old home in Bethlehem. Beautiful were the words of Ruth, when her mother Naomi entreated her to remain with her people. "Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee," said she, "for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God: Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried." Ruth gleaned in the fields and won the heart of the rich Boaz, and became his wife. Children blessed their union. Their firstborn, a boy, was named Obed, and he became the father of Jesse, whose son was King David. "Thus the maiden of Moab became the mother of many kings and the ancestress of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world." 150 WITH reverent thought we turn to the second chapter of St. Luke in the New Testament and read about the birth of Jesus Christ, our Savior. It is another exquisite bit of history. Joseph and Mary lived in the little town of Nazareth. It was a strange circumstance that caused them to go to Bethlehem at the time that Mary was to become a mother. According to the edict of the Emperor Augustus Caesar, all people of Palestine were to go to the place to which by descent they belonged, to be enrolled in a general census. Joseph and Mary chose the city of their fathers as the place where they should register. The city was full of people. Only one place was left to rest. "And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn." The angels were round him and: his birth. They worshiped the Newborn, and said with one accord: "Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good will toward men." The stories of the Magi and the star of Bethlehem, of the angels and the shepherds, as given in the simple narrative of St. Matthew and St. Luke, go to make the story of the birth of the Savior the most beautiful idyl of all literature. Coming to our own history, it was the mother of Cyrus Dallin who inspired her son to make the angel on the center tower of the Salt Lake Temple. She told him the story of the coming from heaven of the angel Moroni to Joseph Smith, and it gave Dallin the inspiration for creating the angel Moroni. It was his nature to wonder about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 the divinity of man, and he was impressed with the great characters of history who seemed to speak at times the words of God and to enact God's holy purposes. 'This was the cause of his unique greatness. When he read about the visit of the angel to Joseph Smith, and the directing him in the discovery of the gold plates, he saw something of the eternal and divine in the story, and he often quoted Michael Angelo: "Beauty cannot be separated from eternity." God became his immutable help. As one looks at the angel, one is impressed with the thought that it is a perfect creation, that a truth was in the mind of the sculptor. It was his ardent faith and warmth of enthusiasm that made him see something of the divine in the angel Moroni's coming to the earth. ¢¢7 now turn the key for women," said the Prophet Joseph Smith on the seventeenth day of March, 1842, when he organized the Relief Society of the Church in Nauvoo, and sent it forth on its mission of love. It was the beginning of a better age, and a more appreciative understanding of the divine mission of woman in the world. She was to take her place in the work of bestowing upon mankind the increasing consciousness of the immortality of spiritual values. Woman was to take her place by the side of man to play her part in the service and calling of God. In the early days of America, woman was the helpmate of man in the hard labor of those times, but in a different manner from that of today. Wives and daughters made clothing in the homes, helped to wield the ax, and WOMEN ARE WORSHIPERS OF GOD carried rifles to protect the village and home. When the husband was absent in the fields, the wife stood on guard in the cabin, always with eyes alert for prowling Indians. The frontier of America bred valiant women, who were likewise heroines of the spirit in which they were no less intrepid. Today, woman has been lifted out of much of her drudgery of a hundred years ago, and the Latter-day Saint people have done a far-reaching work in establishing the proper attitude of society toward the "mothers of men." From the beginning of the Church in 1830, women have been given equal rights with their husbands in the home and social group. In the march of the saints to the West, women and children suffered, and the mortality among them was large, but husbands and sons had a sacred trust to protect them and to ameliorate their sufferings. The pioneer women of the American frontier were often the leaders in thought and promoters of educational institutions. A woman opened the first school in the West for the education of Indian children. Mary Jane Dilworth taught the first school in Utah, and Camilla Cobb opened the first kindergarten, which 151 was among the first kindergartens in America. Both were faithful members of the Relief Society of their respective wards. Hundreds of such women, Relief Society sisters, have given their lives to the uplift of humanity. They have looked after the poor, comforted the sick and unfortunate, and have ministered comfort when death has taken loved ones. "Like ministering angels, they go today into homes and comfort the sorrowful, relieve the distressed, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, wait upon the sick, and scatter glad news and cheer along the road of life." The work of the members of the great organization for women founded over one hundred years ago, goes on from day to day. 'Theirs is a happiness deep and _ lasting. Theirs is an inherited ideal unique in the history of America. 'They radiate sunshine and joy when the clouds descend. Each one in her sphere has a dream of fine spiritual value as expressed by Emily Dickinson: If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching, Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin Unto his nest again, I shall not live in vain. O}-- Preface to a Calendar Lael W. Hill However swiftly days take wing and go— Like birds, like soaring wind along the sky— How singingly the swiftest hours fly! Oh, lift an inner listening, and know The song of time spun lark-voiced, and as high— A moment's brief remembrance rushing by, Its echo feather-fallen onto snow. Flelen Woodruff Anderson Appointed Second Counselor in General Presidency of Relief Society Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society ON January 2, 1957, Helen Woodruff Anderson was appointed to the office of Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society. Years of devoted Church service, academic training, and natural endowment qualify Sister Anderson for this important calling. Helen Anderson, a gentle-voiced and gracious woman, evidenced, even in youth, personality traits which qualify her to fulfill her present assignment with distinction and honor. Humility, a subtle sense of humor, and a marked consideration for others have endeared her to those with whom she associates intimately and to all who have known her capable leadership. Hers is a judicious, quiet strength, with an element of self-restraint which commands respect; yet she is friendly and sociable, with a genuine interest in others. Her love for family and friends is apparent from the unselfish service she renders them. In tracing the factors which have influenced her life, we recall that spirituality, devotion, and humility are her heritage. Her paternal grandfather was President Wilford Woodruff, fourth President of the Church. The memory of his humility and devotion has been for Helen a guiding light through the years. She is a daughter of the late Helen May Winters and Abraham O. Woodruff, a member of the Council of Page 152 HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERSON the Twelve. The early death of her parents left their four young children parentless. Fortunately, the homes into which they were welcomed were kindly and understanding. After the death of their paternal grandmother, they made their home with President Heber J. Grant and Augusta Winters Grant, a sister of their mother. Here Helen matured in an atmosphere of refinement and spiritual integrity. She always speaks lovingly and appreciatively of the influence of this home in shaping her ideals and attitudes toward life. She recalls such counsel from Aunt Augusta which she feels has in- HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERSON fluenced her attitude and action: "Always do a little more than is expected of you; learn to enjoy the things you are required to do; selfpreparation and trust in the Lord are companion requirements for success in any assignment." Sister Anderson attended the L. D. S. High School and was graduated from the University of Utah with a major in home economics. In 1925 she married Alexander Pyper Anderson, who had filled a mission in New Zealand and later was bishop of Waterloo Ward for thirteen years. 'They have five children, four daughters and one son. All are married except Lynda, a high school student. Helen loves Relief Society and understands the many facets of its program, having given it many years of devoted service. It has been joyful service, for her testimony is 153 strong, being faith-grounded and maintained by constant activity. Under President Amy Brown Lyman, she worked in the general Relief Society offices in charge of employment. She has been a visiting teacher, stake board member, stake counselor, and president of Big Cottonwood Stake. Relief Society. She has also served as group leader in the employment division of Jordan Valley Welfare Region. Since 1950 she has been a member of the general board of Relief Society, where she has become recognized for her ability and dependability and loved by her co-workers. As each new door of increased responsibility opens, Helen W. Anderson steps humbly forward, inspired by her rich heritage, and sustained by her great abilities and her unwavering faith. ~ i -2- ove Begets ove e 'TE is a time-honored adage that love begets love. Let us pour forth love — show forth our kindness unto all mankind, and the Lord will reward us with everlasting increase; cast our bread upon the waters and we shall receive it after many days, increased to a hundredfold.... "I do not dwell upon your faults, and you shall not upon mine. Charity, which is love, covereth a multitude of sins, and I have often covered up all the faults among you; but the prettiest thing is to have no faults at all. We should cultivate a meek, quiet and peaceable spirit. "... We should gather all the good and true principles in the world and treasure them up, or we shall not come out true 'Mormons.' " (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 316.) Hulda Parker Tlamed General Secretary-Sreasurer of Reliof Society Caroline Eyring Miner Member, General Board, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association HULDA PARKER N January 2, 1957, Sister Hulda Parker was introduced as the new General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society and also a member of the general board. This appointment represents for Sister Parker further opportunity for Church service in a life already filled with much service in all of the auxiliaries. She is well prepared for this assignment and through her faithfulness and diligence, her appointment will prove to be a great blessing to the sisters of the Church. At the time of her appointment she was serving on the Special Interest Committee of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Page 154 was secretary to Elder Mark E. Petersen. Born in Richfield, Utah, Sister Parker has descended on her father's side from pioneer ancestors who have known the trials and sacrifices that converts experience and that the early pioneers knew who walked across the plains and built up communities in the valleys of the mountains. Ancestors of her mother's family were converted in Norway. 'The gospel has been endeared to Sister Parker because of this heritage. Her father, Joseph W. Parker, deceased, and her mother, Matilda Olsen Parker, maintained a happy, God-fearing home for their family. Hulda was the youngest child. Her father served as a bishop and a member of the stake presidency, and her mother has been active in stake and ward Relief Society work and in teaching. When a child, Hulda moved to Draper, Utah, where she has lived the greater part of her life. When Sister Parker was twenty, she took a challenging position to teach in the high school in Duchesne, Utah, and taught there for two and one-half years. Her school and Church students everywhere call her blessed. When she was in Washington, D. C., working as secretary to Elder Ezra Taft Benson, she and her co-workers in HULDA PARKER the Church had phenomenal success with a genealogical class—building the membership from a small beginning into a very large and interested group. Other forces and circumstances which have helped to prepare Sister Parker for her present position have been her service in the Canadian Mission field where she was an outstanding missionary and served as supervisor of the mission Sunday Schools and secretary of the mission Relief Society; as secretary to Patniarch Kimball of Mount Jordan Stake; as secretary for several years in the Church offices for Elder Ezra 'Taft Benson and. Elder Mark E. Petersen and others of the General Au- 155 thorities; her training at Brigham Young University; and her service as a member of the M. I. A. General Board from 1953-57 on the Bee Hive and Special Interest Committees. Sister Parker has a strong testimony of the gospel. She is hardworking, thorough, sincere, conscientious, and efficient. She is pleasant and helpful and loves to work with people. She has accepted this new assignment with true humility and dependence upon the Lord. Those who know her and have worked with her are confident of her success in this great new calling. —>- She Ke amily Unit e PPHERE is no substitute for a righteous home. That may not be so considered in the world, but it is and ought to be in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The family is the unit in the kingdom of God. That we believe, and if we are fortunate enough, through the keeping of the commandments of the Lord, to go back and re-enter the celestial kingdom to dwell with him, we will find that we are his sons and his daughters, that he is in very deed our Father. As Paul has stated it, we are his offspring, and through obedience to every principle of eternal truth we will go back to be his sons and his daughters. "Paul has said and prayed, speaking of the mission. Of Christ and his obedience to him: For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Of whom the whole family inheaven and earth is named (Eph. 3:14-15). "If we get back into that great kingdom after the earth is redeemed, we will find ourselves members of, the great family of God, and he will be our Father. "He said, you know, to John: He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son (Rev. 21:7). —President Joseph Fielding Smith, Conference Address, October 3, 1948, page 152 Mlary Vogel Gaaaen Appointed to General (Board Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine as MARY VOGEL CAMERON ARY Vogel Cameron, appointed to the general board of Relief Society, January 9, 1957, comes to her new calling well prepared by heritage, training, and attributes of personality. She was born in Provo, Utah, to George and Martha Roberts Vogel, graduated from Ogden High School, and attended the University: of Utah and the University of California. As a teacher in the schools of Weber County and Jordan District, her radiant personality and her many talents were further developed. The rich promises of her gospel heritage found expresson early in Mary's life of devoted service. She has held executive and teaching positions in all the auxiliaries of the Church officered by women, and for several years was a member of her stake Primary board and later a Page 156 counselor in the presidency. For nineteen years she served as a missionary guide on 'Temple Square, where she deepened and strengthened her testimony of the gospel, as well as explaining the doctrines of the Church to many who have since become members. Her Relief Society work has included teaching the theology lessons in her ward, and a long period of service on the stake Relief Society board. Mary is an ideal mother and homemaker. A spiritual atmosphere, loving devotion, beauty, and order permeate her home. She was married to Donald Cameron in the Salt Lake 'Temple, and they are the parents of three daughters: Anna (Mrs. Dale S. Worden), Louise (Mrs. Robert K. Anderson), and Constance, a sophomore at the University of Utah. Eight grandchildren have brought much joy to Sister Cameron. The gospel has always been a guiding light to Mary; she loves to study the scriptures, believes in the power of prayer, and has a deep and abiding testimony. She is endowed with wisdom, understanding, discernment, and the priceless ability of instilling faith and devotion in others. She is an eloquent and sincere speaker and writes with integrity and artistry. Now, in wider fields of service, her intellectual and spiritual blessings will be extended to all the sisters of Relief Society, whose lives will be enriched by association with Mary Cameron. Afton WV Hunt Appointed to General (Board Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society FTON Watson Hunt, who was appointed to the general board of Relief Society, January 9, 1957, was born in. Parowan, Utah, to Emily Crane and Lorenzo Dow Watson. Brother Watson was a lawyer. He died seven months before Afton was born. Her mother kept her family of seven children together and reared them successfully while serving as librarian for twenty-two years at the Carnegie Library in Cedar City. It was there that Afton spent her youth and received most of her education. After graduating from the College of Southern Utah in Cedar City, Afton went to Berkeley, California, for special training to equip herself to teach the physically handicapped. She taught for three years in the California State School for the Deaf and Blind. While in the Bay area, she met Mitchell W. Hunt whom she married. 'To the young couple were born a daughter, Florian, and a son, Mitchell, Jr. Afton today has five lovely grandchildren. Later the Hunts moved to Idaho where Brother Hunt became first counselor in the Twin Falls Stake presidency and Afton served as president of the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society. The Hunts filled an Hawaiian mission, followed by a few months in the California Mission. Upon their release they retired to Laguna Beach where Brother Hunt became branch president and Sister Hunt was active in the auxiliaries. 'They won the love of many friends in Southern California, AFTON W. HUNT all of whom were deeply saddened when President Hunt passed away suddenly of a heart attack in 1951. In 1954 Afton toured Europe and Britain where she took advantage of educational, cultural, and historical opportunities and also visited in many of the missions. Returning to America, she established a home in Salt Lake City, Utah. At the time of her appointment to the general board of Relief Society, she was first counselor in the University Ward Relief Society in the University Stake. Sister Hunt has served most of her lifetime as a teacher in all the auxiliaries of the Church, with thirty years of service in ward and stake Relief Societies. Her training, experience, service and firm testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ amply prepare her for the position as a member of the general board of Relief Society. Page 157 Velma iL. Simonsen Retires From General Presidency President Belle S. Spafford HE General Presidency of Relief Society announces that on January 2, 197, in response to her request, Sister Velma N. Simonsen was released as Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society and as a member of the general board. The announcement of her release will bring a sense of loss to Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. At the same time, there will be feelings of gratitude for the happy associations they have had with her and for the able leadership she has given them. Sister Simonsen was named a member of the general board in May 1945. In this calling, her leadership ability so asserted itself that when Sister Gertrude R. Garff was released as Second Counselor in the General Presidency, October 2, 1947, Sister Simonsen was called to fill this important position. During the time that she has held this office, she has given faithful, devoted, and capable service. In addition to her general duties as counselor, she has had charge of the work meeting program, and also the annual stake Relief Society conventions. She has had continuous supervision of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, and for several years she supervised the Temple Clothing Department. As a member of the General Presidency, she has continuously served as an advisory member of the General Church Welfare Committee and, in addition, has been a member of the Deseret Industries Committee. Page 158 To all of these assignments she has brought enthusiasm, coupled with good judgment, ability, and a willingness to serve. Sister Simonsen has a strong faith in God and an abiding testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Her warm, friendly personality, together with her genuine love for the sisters of the Church have drawn them to her in love and admiration. She has been a loyal and valued counselor and her contribution to the work of Relief Society has been a significant one that will stand a credit to her always. Her associates of the general board love and esteem her as an able leader with whom they have enjoyed a close, personal relationship. It is with regret that they part with her as one of their number, wishing for her always the choice blessings of our Heavenly Father. Wlargaret C. Pickering Resigns As General Secretary-Sreasurer Leone O. Jacobs _ Former Member, General Board of Relief Society ITH deep appreciation for her devoted service to the Relief Society, the general board reluctantly accepted the resignation of Sister Margaret C. Pickering, after eleven years as General SecretaryTreasurer. She served from October 31, 1945 to December 31, 1956. Sister Pickering came to_ her position highly qualified in experience and ability, having twice served as secretary-treasurer of Ensign Stake Relief Society and as secretary-treasurer of South Eighteenth Ward Relief Society from the time of its organization in 1939 until she was called to the general board. She has a firm testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and a gracious and friendly disposition, which endeared her to fellow board members and all others who came to her office for information and help. Also a valuable asset was the executive experience Sister Pickering brought to her position. She had served for ten years as a director of the Salt Lake County Chapter of the American Red Cross, part of which time she was vice-chairman in charge of women's activities, during World War II. In addition she had held executive positions in other civic organizations. The work of General SecretaryTreasurer has been very exacting and complex, and during the eleven years of Sister Pickering's tenure MARGARET C. PICKERING the volume of detail and correspondence thas increased proportionately to the society's great increase in numbers. Beside her work in the office, Sister Pickering has taken her share of stake conventions throughout the stakes of Zion, fulfilling these assignments with a high degree of efficiency, and making friends wherever she traveled. And now with her resignation, Sister Pickering, indeed, merits the satisfaction that comes from work well done, and members of the general board and her many friends throughout the Church extend to her their love and esteem, wishing her much happiness in the years ahead. Page 159 Si ih; ird Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Slow Hurry Vera H. Mayhew* 66 HY can't Daddy go with \\v me?" twelve-year-old Jimmy Marcus demanded. "Tm sick of going with Joe and his dad. Always Joe and his dad. How come Brother Jenson always goes and Daddy never does?" He sat sprawled on the big couch in the living room, his face dark with frustration. Millie wished she could answer his question. Sometimes she was tempted to say, "Because Daddy has things he'd rather do." She never had answered that way; she hoped she never would. She had to keep up the pretense that there would come a day when Daddy would go with Jimmy to the Father's and Son's Outing, with Ellen to Father's and Daughter's Night, or even with her to church, all the time hoping that it was not all pretense. If she didn't have that hope what was there to look forward to? "Daddy has to go to a meeting of the planning commission," she said aloud. "He's very sorry, but you know how important it is to him to get Orchard Avenue zoned for two-family houses. Come on now, Brother Jenson said he'd be glad to come around for you, and youll have fun, once you _ get there." "Oh, all might, but I feel pretty funny when it's supper time and I VERA H. MAYHEW don't have a dad to fill a plate for." Jimmy stood up and planted his feet far apart and firmly on the floor. "And Brother Jenson can't run all the races twice. He gets too tired, but he always offers, and then I have to pretend I have a sore knee or something." Jimmy "hurried slowly" into his room. In spite of her sore heart, Millie had to smile, remembering the time several years before when she kept insisting that Jimmy hurry to do something and he had answered, "Oh, all mght if I have to, but Ill hurry very, very slowly." Ever since she had called his reluctant shuffle to do something he *For a biographical sketch of Vera H. Mayhew, see page 179. Page 160 THE SLOW HURRY didn't really want to do "hurrying slowly." Ellen, who at fourteen was increasingly intolerant of the teasing of a younger brother, had taken advantage of Jimmy being away for an evening to invite her friend, Jeanne, to study with her. Now the two girls were seated at the dining-room table with a plate of fruit between them, chewing and giggling more than they were studying. Millie sat in the living room where she could see the girls and acknowledged to herself that she was hurrying slowly with the pile of mending in her lap. HE kept thinking of Jimmy at the party with no dad to run the sack race with him, and wondering how long she was going to be able to keep him going to the parties with some other boy's dad. It wasn't only the parties either. How long would Jimmy think that church was important if his Dad showed by his actions that he didn't think so? She glanced at Ellen's laughing face and thought, I have a better chance with her. Girls are more likely to go along with their mothers. But in her heart Millie knew fear. Jim isn't helping me at all, she thought. I might as well be a widow bringing up my children! Then she was appalled that she even had such a thought. Jim was a sweet husband, a kind and loving father, whenever he was at home. If he were any other kind of man the children would not miss him so much nor be so eager to have him go with them on their small excursions. ''hey had a good home, medical care, and all the things 161 that children their age wanted or needed. She had no right even to think disloyal thoughts. Maybe she wanted too much. Maybe Jim was right, and it took twelve hours a day, seven days a week to be successful in business. Maybe all the things they could have because Jim worked so hard were as important as Jim thought. She stitched the torn neckband in Jimmy's T' shirt and resolved to think of something else. But thoughts once started have a way of coming back and _ back. She remembered her wedding day. They had come out of the Salt Lake 'Temple in the early afternoon and her parents had hurried ahead to get things moving for the reception that night. Jim had guided her a little away from the path and had taken something from his pocket. "With this ring I thee wed," he had said. "Do you mind if I tell you twice that it's forever? Fifty million years and then some more." He had slipped the thin band on her finger, and she had stood silent, smiling with tears in her eyes, remembering all the vows they had taken that day. Milhe twisted the band on her finger. It was worn smooth in sixteen years, and she wondered if the vows hadn't worn a bit smooth, too? Where did we go wrong? She thought. Was it that Jim's family was not quite as religious as hers? In his boyhood Jim had gone to church if he wanted to and stayed home, if that was what he felt like doing. But all the while they had dated he had gone with her to Mutual and to sacrament meeting. She couldn't remember that she had noticed 162 whether his parents were there or not. It was only later when Jim had begun to find excuses for staying home, and she had gone alone that she had noticed that none of Jim's family were there either. Millie remembered the evening the bishop had come to their home a few months after they were martied to ask Jim to be a member of the Sunday School superintendency. Jim had said how busy he was just starting his own real estate business, "I guess Millie will have to do the church work for both of us,' he had said. And that's the way it had been. ELL, she had kept up the church work and had taken the children to all the meetings they were supposed to attend. If Jim made other plans for a Mutual or choir practice night, she had not let them interfere. She, at least, had done her duty. Jim sometimes canceled his plans, but more and more he had proceeded with them alone. Now he had almost stopped asking her to do things with hin, and he never went with her. Lately they hadn't even been talking much. A little about the children and where he was going, if she asked. 'Tonight, when she pinned him down about going with Jimmy, he had told her about the zoning meeting. But mostly, she realized, she didn't know what he was doing. The twist of fear was stronger. It isn't only that the children are growing up without knowing the companionship of a father, she thought, but after the children are gone and we are alone, what will we have? What had happened to this marriage that was to last forRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 ever? How could I have known we didn't have the same ideas about what was worthwhile in life? Millie was too restless to sew. She put the basket of mending away and went into the kitchen. "We're through studying, Mom," Ellen called. "Is it all right if we turn the television on?" "Go ahead," Mille said. "I'm making a batch of fudge. It will be ready before Jeanne's father comes for her, I think." It was better to keep herself busy. Perhaps then she wouldn't think so much. Somehow Millie couldn't stop thinking, that night or in the next few weeks. Something had to be done about their life as a family. Almost a month had passed, when Jim came home from a late appointment and sat down in the living room. He didn't open the paper or pick up a book, but kept stirring restlessly, looking at her, then looking away. Finally he said, "Mil, Dave Evans is in town and he has brought his wife. 'They will be here only over tomorrow, and I'd like to take them to dinner. It would be much nicer for Mrs. Evans if you went along. I know it's Mutual, but couldn't the kids go with some of the neighbors just this once?"' Something about the way Jim looked, pleading as young Jimmy when he wanted something very much but feared he wouldn't get it, stopped the almost automatic response on her lips. Instead of refusing somewhat curtly, as she usually did, she said, "Of course, Jim, if you want it. Would it be nicer to have them at home?" Jim looked at her in surprise. THE SLOW HURRY "Not this time," he said. "It's pretty short notice for you to get up a dinner. Sweet of you to offer. Nice of you to go." He stood up and moved toward the bedroom. Almost there, he turned. "Thanks Mil, thanks awfully." I should thank you, Millie thought. She tried to remember the last time Jim had asked her to go any place. She thought about the surprised look on his face when she said yes. She must think about this. Maybe Jim was feeling the same need of family closeness that She did. Maybe he didn't know how to go about getting it either. ILLIE dressed with great care for the dinner party with the Evanses and tried to be a good hostess. She turned the conversation to the Evans family, the Evans vacation, the Evans home, and listened with real interest. She surprised herself by not thinking about the children more than once or twice all evening. "It was a nice evening," she told Jim as they lingered a few minutes in their own living room. He put his arms around her and laid his cheek against her hair. "You're a knockout," he said. "Pretty as sixteen years ago. 'The Evanses thought so, too. I'm glad we could give them a_ pleasant evening. Dave's done a lot for me." Millie felt closer to Jim than she had done in years. The next day as she went about her work she kept thinking of the night before. If just once agreeing pleasantly to a wish of Jim's could bring her this feeling of increased compatibility, she wondered what it would be like if she lived more 163 for Jim. Then she thought, this thing doesn't work one way. If it makes me feel so good to do something Jim wants, he would feel the same way about doing something for me. She must think of something. Actually, the thing came about without any contriving. On Sunday, as Millie cleared the table after dinner, she slipped on a spot of grease that had splattered on the floor near the stove and turned her ankle. It was quite painful and the swelling came up fast. The first few minutes all was confusion. Jim picked Millie up and carried her to the couch. "You kids get busy and clean up the kitchen," Jim said. "Mother mustn't step on this foot at all." "How can we do dishes when you're taking up all the room getting out ice?" Jimmy asked. "There are other things to do on a cleanup job," Jim snapped. "Besides I'm almost through. Just get me a couple of thick wash cloths, Ellen, and I'll be out of your way." With infinite gentleness, Jim took off Millie's shoe and stocking and began to put on cold compresses. When he called the doctor he was told to continue the treatment and call him the next day, if the swelling was bad. After a half hour Jim pulled the afghan over Millie and sat beside her, his face white as hers. So the afternoon passed, a half hour of compresses, a_ half hour of rest. "Really Jim, it hardly hurts at all now," Millie insisted after the third application of cold, wet cloths. Ellen and Jimmy kept asking how she felt, and Jim reported that the kitchen looked perfectly slick. 164 Finally Ellen said, "Is it all right if I leave for church now? I'm one of the youth speakers tonight." Millie sat up quickly. "Hand me my shoes and bring me a comb," she said. "T''ll be ready to take you in just a minute." "You'll do nothing of the kind," Jim said. "You'll stay right on that couch till I carry you up to bed. You're going to keep off that foot for several days." "Ellen can't just let them down at the last minute like this," Millie protested. "Why don't I stay with Mother," Jimmy said, "and you take Ellen to church, Dad? I can wring cloths out of ice water, but I can't drive a car." Jim looked uncertain, a_ little shamefaced. His glance turned to Millie, and she held her breath waiting for his decision. "Okay," Jim said. "But don't you leave your mother's side." ' "you have a very smart daughter, Mrs. Marcus," Jim said as he came in after the meeting. 'People were almost as impressed at her talk as they were to see me in church." "Oh, Daddy!" Ellen said, but her face was glowing. "No kidding. You gave a right good talk." Jim put his arm around Ellen's shoulder and drew her close for a minute. "Tm sorry Millie said. Us proud." She had said "us," and hadn't realized it until she heard the word. She held out her arms to Ellen, but her thoughts were with that little word she had used that showed that to have missed it," "T knew you'd make RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 unconsciously she thought of them as a family all concerned with each other's successes. Now was the time to hurry slowly Millie knew, but it was not because of reluctance. She mustn't push Jim. He loved her and he loved the children. He had shown that the day she sprained her ankle. But the pattern of sixteen years would not be easy to break. She remembered how hard it had been for him to ask her to go with his clients to dinner; and just because an accident had gotten him to church once didn't mean that he would gosagain. But I'll keep praying and trying, she thought. Our spiritual separation has been as much my fault as his, maybe more, she admitted in a flash of honest self-appraisal. I've been self-righteous! I've gloried in doing my duty just to show him! At that moment she didn't like herself very much. But her next thought seemed to set her on the right track. Maybe Jim has been leaving church out altogether to show me. Oh, not consciously, she hastened to add. But something may have pushed him as something pushed me. Just that little bit of difference in our background kept pushing us farther and farther apart. We should have met that and worked out our own way of life in the beginning. I guess that deep down inside we were each too sure that our way was right. But it isn't too late. Oh, it can't be too late! Nevertheless, two Sundays had passed and Jim had not offered to go to Sunday School or sacrament meeting. Ellen had shyly suggested that he come along, but he had a THE SLOW HURRY ready excuse and Millie had said nothing. Now it was Sunday again. Jim stayed home and worked in the garden while Millie and the children went to Sunday School. As the time neared for sacrament meeting, Millie resolved to ask Jim herself, if he would go with them. "Jack Barnes and Ken Murray are to be the speakers at church tonight," she said. ""They're just back from their two years in the service. Jack has been in Germany and Ken in Japan. Come with us!" " looked at her almost blankly then a look of relief crossed his face. "I don't care if I do." "How different those boys are," Jim mused as he helped Millie spread sandwiches for a late Sunday snack. "Jack could say everything so easily. You felt almost as if you had been there with him. For Ken it was harder, and most people wouldn't get much from his talk. But I admired Ken. He did something hard the best he could. Ken taught me something." Mille waited for Jim to go on, but he sliced meat in silence. At last he continued, "Do you have a feeling that we understand each other better?" "Yes, I do," she answered. "What do you suppose happened? You know I was getting worried about us." You were getting worried! Millie thought; aloud she said, "That night I went with you to take the Fvanses out to dinner something came straight in my mind. I discovered that you had a point of view and that I could look through it, too. Before that there had been just one right way. Mine." 165 Jim smiled and took her in his arms. "The same bug must have bitten us both. The things you like aren't really so bad. I sort of like to go to church. But you made such a thing of it the very first time I just didn't feel like going, that I had to rebel. Or thought I did." He rumpled her hair then pressed her head against his shoulder. "As the kids grew up, I always felt like a heel when I didn't go some place where I should have been. But I could see you knowing I was going to let them down. Couldn't seem to help myself. I just never could be pushed." Milhe smiled, thinking of Jimmy. "It's funny," she said softly. "I can see now that there are times when the necessary pressures of life would make it wrong for you to ignore an outside call to go to Mutual or on a picnic." "Not often," Jim replied. "Mostly I made the importance in my own mind. Sometimes, I grant you; times when a plane should be met or things happen just this once. Mostly it was my pigheadedness." "And mine," Millie said, then she giggled. "We surely hurried very, very slowly toward an understanding of family life." "But we did get there," Jim said. "Hey, I thought you were making sandwiches," Jimmy opened the kitchen door and shouted. "Give them time," Ellen said and pulled him back into the dining room and closed the door. "They're all done,' Jim said. "We'll be right with you." Millie's eyes met his in deep understanding, as they turned to take the filled trays in to the rest of the family. She Nlew Lealand Mission Preston R. Nibley eS So Whites Aviation Ltd. Submitted by Arta R. Ballif CABBAGE TREE IN THE "BUSH COUNTRY," NEW ZEALAND ISSIONARY work in New Zealand began in October 1854, when Augustus Farnham, President of the Australian Mission, accompanied by Elder William Cooke, a convert from Australia, arrived in Auckland to open a mission for the Church. They labored diligently in Auckland and vicinity, on the North Island, and in Nelson and vicinity on the South Island, for about two months, but did not make any converts. President Farnham then returned to Australia, leaving Elder Cooke to take charge Page 166 of the work. This diligent missionary, working alone during the winter of 1854-55, baptized ten converts at Karori (near Wellington) and organized, in March 1855, the first branch of the Church in New Zealand. The headquarters of what was known as the Australasian Mission, consisting of Australia and New Zealand, was moved from Sidney to Auckland in 1881. During the same year, the mission president, William M. Bromley, began missionary work among the Maoris of New Zealand. THE NEW ZEALAND MISSION Whites Aviation Ltd. Submitted by Arta R. Ballif VIEW OF THE GREEN HILLS OF NEW ZEALAND The plan met with success, and, in 1883, a branch of twenty-seven members was established in the Waotu settlement, with Harn T. Katera as president. The Book of Mormon was translated into the Maori language in 1887 by Elders Ezra F. Richards and Sonda Sanders, assisted by several educated natives. At the close of 1887 there were 2,573 members of the Church in New Zealand, 2,243 of whom were Maoris. The Australasian Mission was divided in 1897 and New Zealand was made a separate mission. At the end of 1930 there were 7,256 members in the mission. In 1913 an Agricultural College was established by the Church in 167 New Zealand, which has been of great benefit to the young Maori members. President David O. McKay, the first President of the Church to visit New Zealand, announced after his return to Salt Lake City in February 1955 that a temple would be built in that land. Today the New Zealand Mission is in a prosperous condition. 'There are 14,630 members, located in sixtyeight branches. Ariel S. Ballif is the mission president. In December 1955, seventy Relief Society organizations were reported with 998 members. Arta R. Ballif presides over the New Zealand Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover of this Magazine, "Sheep Grazing in a Green Paddock," represents typical New Zealand scenery. See also "Recipes From New Zealand," page 192. The Bright Star CHAPTER 1 Dorothy S. Romney Korn Tracy was puffing from her steep climb up the hill by the time she reached the top step leading to the terrace. As usual since his retirement, old Phineas Fenton was seated in his big leather armchair. And, as usual, he was gazing across the waters of the Golden Gate, crimson now in the last glow of the September sun. Without a single word of greeting, Phineas declared, "I like the crash of the waves down _ there. Shuts out the humdrum sounds of all those new-fangled household contraptions Grace has let herself be talked into buying." Kathy stood there not knowing how to begin. It was hard enough just to face old Phin, let alone ask him for a job. But it had to be done. She simply could not allow Aunt Em to go on working so hard. If only Uncle Phin were a real blood relative, instead of just a family friend.... She took a step closer and began, "Uncle Phin " "Hmm," he growled, "you startled me," as if this were the first indication he had of her presence. "What do you want?" She was saved from replying for the moment, when Grace Fenton, Phin's daughter-in-law, came out of the house. "Why, Kathy," she said graciously, "how nice to see you. Not that I blame anyone for not climbing up here any oftener than necessary." "Have to live where I can see the ocean," old Phin muttered. "Of course," Grace agreed pleasPage 168 antly. "It just makes it a bit hard for others to get up here to see us." Old Phin coughed impatiently, and Kathy surmised he was wishing his visitor would come to the point, then take herself off, so he could go back to his daydreaming. "Aunt Em is getting old," she began, and saw Phineas wince. I would start out wrong, she told herself. He's a whole generation older than she is, and likes to think himself young. She forced herself to continue. "When Grandfather Tracy died years ago you told us to come to you if we ever needed anything. Uncle Phin, I need a job." "Don't know that I have a job for anyone. Business is slow all over," Phineas complained, fretting his lower lip with his teeth like a petulant child. "You can find Kathy a job in one of your office buildings in San Francisco," Grace said in her soft, unemotional tones. "I'm sure some small job would do to start with. Kathy's interested in becoming an artist, and this would give her time to work on her paintings." "Painting!" Phineas snorted. "Same kind of malarkey Em would have gone in for, if her father hadn't had sense enough to put a stop to il Kathy wisely chose to ignore this remark. "She's bright and talented, too," Grace urged loyally, and Kathy could have wept for her kindness. "Confound you women, let me alone," Phineas growled. He turned THE BRIGHT STAR to Grace. "Hand me that note paper," he said, indicating a pad on a small table a few feet away. He started scribbling, then turned to Kathy. "Here, girl, what's your full name?" "Kathy Lynette Tracy," she said distinctly. "Hmm," he snorted, "pretty fancy. Sounds like a brand of starch." You'd think he hadn't heard my name hundreds of times, Kathy found herself thinking, as Phineas tore off the note and handed it to her. She glanced at it just long enough to make sure he was giving her a job, then stood up. "You mustn't go yet," Grace protested. "Let me bring you a glass of cold orange juice." "Oh, thank you,' Kathy said, "but I'm afraid I must get back." She had a job, and felt that she'd burst if she didn't get down and tell Aunt Em the joyful news. She stopped in front of Phineas' chair. "You'll never regret giving me this chance, Uncle Phin." He scrutinized her owlishly, then sat up straighter. "By jove," he said, "it's a good thing you're pretty. The tenants like pretty girls in my buildings." Kathy nodded goodbye to Grace, her eyes almost brimming over with tears of gratefulness. She walked down the steps and path leading to the shrubbery. Behind the thicket of laurel, out of sight of the Fenton mansion, was a stone bench. Kathy crumpled upon it. She fished in her sweater pocket and brought out the note. Phineas had written clearly on it: "Give this girl, Kathy Lynette 169 Tracy, a job as switchboard operator. Pay her fifty dollars a week." It was a small fortune, she'd be rich on this, rich enough to pay all the household expenses, and the money in the old Chinese chest could be saved for an emergency. Money Aunt Em had saved, penny by penny, through an infinity of stitching, a maze of jams and jellies sold to the village stores. Kathy never wanted to take another stitch or look at another jar of jam the rest of her life. She and Aunt Em would both be free of all this drudgery. She started planning. She'd come home nights—commute across the Golden Gate bridge—that way she could spend all her spare time with Aunt Em. 'Then, perhaps, Kathy's heart gave a little plunge—stay over one evening a week to take that course in art she had dreamed of for so long. ATHY got up and continued down the path. Ahead of her loomed home—the gray, _ threestoried house. The house her grandfather, Jon Tracy, had built at the turn of the century. The house Aunt Em loved so dearly. Kathy thought its three uncompromising tiers of gray wood rising from the rocky beach were just as gorgeous as the Fenton place atop the hill. Jon Tracy, who had spent his life piloting one of Phineas' cargo vessels, had built his home as close to the ocean as was considered safe, where the noise of the surf and the foghorns could be heard constantly. Kathy was sure Miss Em would die without these familiar sounds of her childhood. She must never, never have to give up the gray house. 170 Kathy left the path, and finally reached the ravine made by the spring, crossed the miniature cherrywood bridge she herself had built over the small stream. She paused with a longing look at the tiny cabin at the very feet of the waves. The cabin Jon Tracy had built and filled with the beautifully carved chests and relics he'd brought from far-off lands. 'The China house, as it had become known, had long been Kathy's refuge when troubled. But she dared not go in now and sit down in the comfortable rocking chair, or she'd never get up to the house, and Aunt Em might need her. When she finally reached the haven of the kitchen, she found that it was empty. She called "Aunt Em! Aunt Em!" Receiving no answer, she went into her aunt's bedroom. It was empty, and so was the rest of the house, she found. "Where could she have gone?" Kathy asked herself. Kathy collapsed in the rocking chair beside the old-fashioned kitchen range. 'The fog was already settling down in the ravine, and it would be dark before long. Maybe she'd better go out and look for Aunt Em, she thought, as she rose to set the kettle on the hot part of the stove. A cup of chocolate would warm her up. It was then that she saw the note, propped against the sugar bowl on the table. She picked it up and read it swiftly: "I felt that I needed some fresh air. Please don't worry, and go ahead with your date with Jim. Pll be back soon." IM! Kathy had completely forgotten that this was their night RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 to go into the village for that movie date. She'd better eat a hurried bite and get ready, as Jim was never known to be late and hated to be kept waiting. She reminded herself that Aunt Em insisted on her going out once in a while in the evening. "I won't have you making a recluse of yourself because of me," she'd declared. "Besides, it's the only chance I have to catch up on my Book of Mormon reading." A sandwich and a cup of hot chocolate was all Kathy could possibly eat. She had barely finished when Jim's knock came on _ the kitchen door. "Hi!" he greeted. "Grab your coat and let's get going, or we'll miss the early show." Kathy got up, but stood uncertainly in the middle of the kitchen floor. "Hey, come on, you in a trance or something?" Jim prodded. "Aunt Em's gone out... And I shouldn't leave until she gets back," Kathy spoke slowly. '"What's so unusual about Aunt Em going out?" Jim asked. "She's always running off somewhere, isn't she? Goodness — she knows the countryside around here like the back of her hand. She'll be all right," he assured her. "T suppose so," Kathy replied, still reluctant to leave. She had a strange foreboding — she felt sure she shouldn't go out before her aunt returned. For one thing, she remembered how much Aunt Em had slowed down in the past few weeks, not only in her actions, but her speech was actually slower — perhaps she wasn't well. (To be continued) Ward Linton HILLSIDE IN SAN BENITO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA J Had Forgotten Catherine E. Berry I had forgotten time could bring An end to every lovely thing The fairyland the snowfall made, The weeping willow's lacy shade; A candle's glow, a scarlet tree, The way your eyes once looked at me. And wept for loveliness gone past, For dreams and love that did not last. I had forgotten time can heal The wounded heart, can place its seal Upon the past, and yearly bring The cycle back again to spring. Page 17] Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" NORTHERN IDAHO: That part of Idaho called Coeur d'Alene, and in which is my home, comprises the two northernmost counties, Shoshone and Kootenai. It is a nest of mountains with beautiful lakes nestling among them and streams of water coursing through every gulch, except where tower the snow clad peaks above the timber line. A trail cut through the banks of snow Winds up and o'er the mountain chain To where the pines of Idaho Stand guard upon the Coeur d'Alene. —Helen L. Young RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN DAVIS STAKE: President Susan Grant presiding... Made opening remarks, said we did not come together to advance new ideas but we have come with a desire to be blessed.... "I have been connected with this Church for a long time and it is my testimony that God hears and answers the prayers of the faithful saints. When we are in deep sorrow we can go to Him and He will hear us. We have all enlisted in the service of God. Our names are all enrolled in the Relief Society, it is the duty of all the sisters to attend their meetings." —Phebe C. Sessions, Secretary ROSES FOR PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S NINETIETH BIRTHDAY They are the roses Reverence and Regard That know no change. But bloom forever, though the storms be hard And ways grow strange. They are the roses that I bring to you, Your gaze to greet; To scent the way you take with fragrance true, And make life sweet. —Miss Rose Wallace SILVER WEDDING: Elder John C. Sharp, Bishop of Vernon, Tooele Co., and his wife celebrated their silver wedding by entertaining about fifty relatives and friends at the Templeton Hotel in this city, on Friday evening March 12th. Among the guests were Apostle H. J. Grant and w ife, Mrs. Catherine K. Palmer, who is almost eighty years old and mother of Mrs. Sharp, Pres't H. Gowans and wife of Tooele Stake, Brother Samuel Woolley and wife of Grantsville, Brother Wnght and wife of Nephi, Brother Louis Stransbury and wife of Vernon, Brother Thackeray and wife of Croydon, and many relatives of this city. The evening was pleasantly spent with music, feasting and conversation. —E. P. F. Page 172 HERE are sixteen women in the Fighty-fifth Congress of the United States, the same number as in the eighty-fourth, though two of them are new: Representative Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey, and Representative Kathryn FE. Granahan, Democrat, Pennsylvania. Edith Nourse Rogers, Republican, Massachusetts, was elected to the House of Representatives for her seventeenth term, and _ Frances Payne Bolton, Republican, Ohio, for her tenth. Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, Maine, remains the only woman Senator. 'The other representatives are: Republican: Katherine Ind and Marguerite Church, Illinois; Democratic: Edna Kelly, New York; Gracie Pfost, Idaho; Leonor K. Sullivan, Missouri; Edith Green, Oregon; Elizabeth Kee, West Virginia; Iris Blitch, Georgia; Martha W. Griffiths, Michigan; and Coya Knutson, Minnesota. ELLIE BELLES MACMILLAN, born in Spencer, Indiana, is the mother of Harold Macmillan, Britain's new Prime Minister. She met and married Maurice Macmillan, musician and publisher, in Paris in the 1880's. Largely through her insistence, Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind was purchased and published by the Macmillan Company. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MABEL S. HARMER'S True Book of Pioneers, published in March by Childrens Press, Chicago, has been named a Junior Literary Guild Selection. It is the first book by a Utahn to receive this distinction. Mrs. Harmer's True Bock of the Circus was her first contribution to the Childrens Press True Book series. Beautifully illustrated, the new volume depicts the day-to-day activities of America's countless pioneers. Mrs. Harmer, an active Latter-day Saint, is a frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine and the author of a daily Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram Children's Story. RS. CLARE BOOTH LUCE, fifty-three, has resigned as American Ambassador to _ Italy. Foreign Minister, Gaetano Martino, bestowed the Grand Cross of the Order of Merit, Italy's highest decoration, on Mrs. Luce, commenting that if United States-Italian friendship "has now become a permanent part of the spiritual life of the two nations,' it was to her credit. USAN WARNER, in writing The Wide, Wide World in 1850, became the author of Amertica's first fiction bestseller. 'Thirteen editions were printed in 1850-51. Page 173 CQ EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 44 MARCH 1957 Reliof Society Legacy for Young Women HAT does Relief Society offer to me as a young woman?" This is a question which may be in the minds of many young women who are beginning to make a home. Here are a few of the opportunities which may be mentioned that a young woman has as a legacy of Relief Society. In this modern mechanized world, opportunity for expression may be lacking because so many of us are watchers and listeners. In Relief Society, a young woman has an opportunity of voicing her views on subjects which are interesting and worthwhile—theology, literary masterpieces, authors, family relationships, and other subjects. She has the chance for forming opinions through study and discussion with other women—some who are her own age and others who are older. The knowledge and opinions of the mother are an important part of the foundation on which children learn to think and learn why they think the way they do. It behooves young Latter-day Saint women, then, to learn as much as possible not only of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but also of all the fine and domestic arts and handicrafts, in order that they may share this knowledge with their families. Much of this knowledge can be gained through activity and study in Relief Society. Page 174 A young woman may have the opportunity of developing leadership abilities if she becomes proficient and is called to executive or teaching positions. In these capacities she will find that she needs, among many virtues, those of poise, kindness, and humility. She who inculcates these qualities in her life will have a great influence upon the other members and upon her children as well. The Relief Society Magazine is another avenue of expression which the young woman is given in her legacy of Relief Society. She may have a flair for poetry or short stories; or she may like to write the factual or the travel-type article. One of the main purposes of the Magazine is to stimulate and increase interest in the literary talents of women. A young woman also finds the opportunity to serve in many different ways. She may be able to help in the accomplishment of a welfare project or she may realize the joy which comes from compassionate service she has given to a sister. From her associations with older women of the society, she gains wisdom and insight in life's situations, and a feeling of oneness with her sisters, an understanding that life itself is unchanging despite exterior conditions. EDITORIAL Young women who find themselves asking the question: "Why should I be interested in Relief Society?" may well consider these values. If the legacy of Relief Society to the young women of the Church included nothing more than an opportunity for self-expres- 175 sion and service, it would be a priceless gift which is not found in any club or other activity. May the young women of this generation claim this gift of opportunities by actively participating in Relief Society.—J. N. 0-0 Reliof Society Singing Mothers Present Music Over Tlational Broadcasting Jelevision Tletwork Six hundred Singing Mothers from Salt Lake and Utah County areas sang "The Twenty-third Psalm," with music by Franz Schubert, on the "Wide Wide World Program" which presented a Salute to the American Woman, over the National Broadcasting 'Television Network, Sunday, January 6, 1957, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. 'The event, originating with KSL-T'V, was telecast over 200 stations to an estimated thirty million listeners and viewers. Representing nearly thirty-one thousand Singing Mothers throughout the Church, these sisters, under the baton of Dr. Florence J. Madsen of the Relief Society general board, and with Frank W. Asper at the organ, rendered the sacred anthem with great sincerity and accomplished musicianship. The Singing Mothers appeared at the conclusion of the "Wide Wide World Program." 'They were introduced by commentator Dave Gerroway, who spoke as follows: But in the West one more chapter is still to be told. We visit with 600 women who tell the story in song. Our live cameras are scanning the spires of the Mormon Temple and Tabernacle on 'Temple Square in Salt Lake City and the voices you hear singing praises to the Lord over our broad land are the combined chorus of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—mothers, wives, and daughters—out of their homes in the valley of Salt Lake and the mountains beyond. In her letter to the stakes represented, thanking the Singing Mothers for their lovely and enthusiastic performance, President Belle S. Spafford expressed her appreciation: Not only did they perform masterfully under the able baton of Sister Madsen, but through their radiant countenances did they portray most impressively the spirit and beauty of Latter-day Saint womanhood. We feel confident that through this performance countless numbers both in and out of the Church will have increased their appreciation of the cultural opportunities afforded through our great organization. We feel also, that many other Singing Mothers choruses will have been encouraged in their endeavors. 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Many letters of appreciation have been received at the general offices of Relief Society commending the excellent and appealing rendition of the great Psalm, and expressing admiration for the unity of effort and effect in the singing of the Mothers, as well as their lovely appearance as a group. In a congratulatory letter to President Spafford, Herbert Sussan, producer of "Wide Wide World," commented: I certainly hope you agree that all the efforts were worthwhile. We were all most impressed by the great quality of the performance. Even more so, the faith and warmth reflected in the faces of the singers was most inspiring to our vast television audience. And, in a letter to Sister Madsen, Mr. Sussan expressed his appreciation for the quality of the music presented: I should like to congratulate you and the wonderful organization that you conducted on the January 6th Wide Wide World program for the most effective presentation of its type that I have ever seen on television. Musically, we were thrilled by the high quality of their performance. This event, shared by many people in all parts of our country, was a heartfelt and significant occasion for the Singing Mothers and for Relief Society women in all the stakes and missions of the Church—an opportunity to present a message of faith through the faces and the voices of the Singing Mothers. Their devotion and their performance will long be remembered. Announcing the Special April Short Story Yssue THE April 1957 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "Mountain Vacation," by Deone R. Sutherland "New Shoes for Flo," by Wanda F. Hilton "Two of a Kind," by Maude Rubin "Going Modern," by Frances C. Yost Shese Shings J Love Helen H. Jones These things I love: Soft music built on unexpected Harmonies, Clean silhouettes against the moon Of leafless trees; Life that runs a rocky course Not hewn by chance, Finding its power through purpose, Not through circumstance. Notes TO THE FIELD Index for 1956 Relicf Society Magazine Available COrlmES of the 1956 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. The price is 15¢, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1956 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, including the index. If leather binding is preferred, the cost is $3.50, including the index. 'These prices do not include postage, and an additional amount to cover postage must accompany all orders for binding of the Magazine. See schedules of postage rates in this issue of the Magazine, page 208. If bound volumes are desired, and the Magazine cannot be supplied by the person making the request, the Magazines will be supplied for $1.50 by the Magazine Department, General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that all wards and stakes have one volume of the 1956 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. S&s OP aeiedionsmondel coaeat caters of iStake | g and Ilission Relief Societies for 1956 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed Ashley Uintah Melba H. Tullis November 2, 1956 Brigham Young East Provo Alice Wilkinson January 8, 1956 University Burbank San Fernando Evelyn P. Brown September 16, 1956 CanyonRim East Mill Creek Bertha H. Blomquist October 28, 1956 Covina Pasadena Lucille C. Hales February 26, 1956 Flagstaff Snowflake and Ruth W. Palmer September 23, 1956 California Mission Hayward Oakland Myrtle Davidson August 26, 1956 Holladay Cottonwood Elaine B. Curtis March 18, 1956 Kansas City Independence District Marjorie M. Reeve October 21, 1956 Central States Mission Lake Mead Las Vegas and Moapa Mary R. Edwards August 19, 1956 Oakland-Berkeley Oakland and Berkeley Annabelle W. Hart August 26, 1956 Reseda San Fernando Blanche A. Flint September 16, 1956 Spanish Fork Palmyra Fern Brockbank September 30, 1956 Springville Kolob Clara Sumsion October 21, 1956 Tucson Southern Arizona Avez M. Goodman December 2, 1956 Page 177 178 Stake Valley View Walnut Creek Missions Northern Mexico Stake ee | Beaver Bountiful Calgary Cottonwood East Los Angeles East Mill Creek East Provo Emigration Farr West Florida Fresno Gooding Grand Coulee Gridley Houston Klamath Kolob Lake View Layton Lyman Mill Creek New York North Carbon North Sevier Palmyra Palo Alto Park Redondo St. George Salmon River San Fernando San Luis Santa Monica Santa Rosa South Sanpete Temple View Uintah Wasatch Washington Wilford Formerly Part of East Mill Creek and Wilford Stakes Berkeley Mexican RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Appointed President Date Appointed Grace E.. Berndt Ellen J. Haddock Kathleen B. Bentley REORGANIZATIONS Released President Bernice Thompson Lula G. Eldredge Freda Kenney Elaine B. Curtis Genevieve L. Anderson Zettella W. Thurman Zina P. Dunford Lucille G. Williams Geneva M. Law Effie Meeks Lyla J. Coombs Jenna Vee Hall Alfreta Gail Jardine Alice I. Ferrin Sadie Ollorton Clark Mae Belle Nielson Grace C. Crandall Esther (Beth) McEntire Faun L. Reynolds Opal W. Broadbent Mary M. Wright Vera H. Hales Elva Judd Josephine Thomsen Fern Brockbank Violet B. Smith Velma N. Glade June Baggett Verna L. Dewsnup Louise Arave Evelyn P. Brown Lettie S. Jensen Odette P. Coulam Ruth M. Pell Zella C. Christensen Lorena W. Anderson Muriel S. Wallis Ruth Mae Witt Mae A. Evans Grace E. Berndt Appointed President October 28, 1956 August 26, 1956 June 10, 1956 Date Appointed Kathleen S. Farnsworth Marilla H. Sessions Helen B. Pitcher Nina B. Davis Margaret W. Clarke Thelma B. Dansie Ethel M. Wilson Dean B. Norberg Ada J. Taylor Vella V. 'Tilton Olive Child Phillips Nina Beth G. Cunningham Jane Maria Larsen Ivy M. Brown Kathryn K. Willis Vesta M. Lewis Luella T. Wilson Catherine Child Mary Barber Elease Rollins Rachel Park Margaret D. Stephenson Edna Broadbent Ora C. Mason Maude H. Ludlow Ruby M. Dobbins Bernice R. Campbell Kathryn L. Squire Roma C. Esplin Helen Olson Naomi Gilmore Verla Crowther Hilda Goucher Dorothy S. Blaisdell LuDean H. Cox Margaret M. Glad Evyln G. Richardson Mina C. Giles Marcia C. Steele Lois Jensen May 1, 1956 March 20, 1956 March 18, 1956 March 18, 1956 April 22, 1956 October 28, 1956 January 29, 1956 September 27, 1956 September 22, 1956 October 25, 1956 September g, 1956 June 17, 1956 February 26, 1956 September 23, 1956 October 14, 1956 April 29, 1956 October 21, 1956 June 10, 1956 February 5, 1956 October 28, 1956 July 9, 1956 February 26, 1956 August 6, 1956 April 22, 1956 September 20, 1956 September 9, 1956 March 11, 1956 August 27, 1956 June 10, 1956 May 20, 1956 September 16, 1956 May 20, 1956 September 16, 1956 February 5, 1956 September 25, 1956 September 16, 1956 June 10, 1956 May 6, 1956 August 2, 1956 November 4, 1956 ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS Missions Argentine Danish Great Lakes Mission Netherlands Mission Northern California Norwegian Samoan South African Swedish Swiss-Austrian Uruguayan Western Canadian Stakes Berkeley Oakland Released President Appointed President 179 Date Appointed Amy Y. Valentine Mary G. Sorensen Florence H. Richards Ada S. Van Dam Amelia P. Gardner Sigrid H. Andresen Rita H. Stone Nora C. Duncan Ethel E. Blomquist Johanna B. Perschon Louise Bush Parry (deceased, 6-14-56) Marilynn Haymore Pace Ora Irene H. Petersen Mary Pehrson Christensen Lucy Emma Gedge Sperry Hazel Sperry Love Zina R. Engebretsen Thelma Hansen Sampson Holly Wood Fisher Ruth 'T. Oscarson LaVelle D. Curtis Sharon Parry (Miss) Elizabeth Zimmerman Annie Ruth B. Larson STAKES DISORGANIZED Released President Irene Thorley Ranker Annabelle W. Hart WorldChanger Maryhale Woolsey Small Danny-Boy has been here — my world globe tells me so: Antarctica is up on top, the North Pole's down below. And I'm inclined to wonder, as I view it with a frown, In what ways Daniel, grown, might turn a real world upside-down! Vora Hinckley Mlayhew Vera Hinckley Mayhew appears for the second time as a winner in the Relief July 25, 1956 January 10, 1956 October 17, 1956 July 12, 1956 August 22, 1956 February 16, 1956 October 17, 1956 October 7, 1956 July 12, 1956 June 22, 1956 January 10, 1956 Date Released August 26, 1956 August 26, 1956 Society Short Story Contest, with her offering "The Slow Hurry." "My husband, Wayne, and I live in Berkeley, California," she writes, "and we spend as much time as we Can squeeze out on our ranch in the Napa Valley, where we breed Arabian horses and entertain our eight grandchildren. We have two sons and two daughters, all married and living in widely scattered places. I have been active in Relief Society for many years as a ward and stake literature class leader, and as a ward and then a stake president. Over the past twenty years a story of mine has occasionally appeared in The Relief Society Magazine or the Era. For the past two and a half years, since my household and Church responsibilities have decreased, I have kept a more regular writing schedule and my appearances in both Church and outside publications have increased." 'Be Honest wth Yourself Run and Win Alt life is a race which everyone wants to win. Happily, all of us can win, for we run not against one another but against ourselves. Moreover, we set our own handicaps. These handicaps are the times and the measures, the ambitions and the goals we set for ourselves. But once having set our sights, it's up to us whether we win or lose in the race. Young man, young woman, what are your goals in the race of life? Health, long life, business success, the friendship of good and great people, a comfortable home, a happy family, security for self and loved Page 180 RUN AND WIN 181 ones, faith in a more glorious future life, with a well-earned inner assurance that a loving Father will reward in heaven good deeds done here? If these are the sights you set for yourself and for those you cherish, your high aims must be matched by constant and increasing daily endeavor. To win you must run and not grow weary; you must not faint or falter a single step before the race is won. Don't slow your pace by breaking training rules, or shorten your stride in the running of the race. To win the race of life, you must keep physically, mentally, and spiritually fit. To be less — to do less than your best is to cheat yourself and your loved ones of the rewards which belong only to winners. Then — on your mark, get set — go! BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF <-> Spring Opening Eva Willes Wangsgaard Forsythia was first to voice Disdain for winter's reign of frost. There was scant reason to rejoice For earth and sky were winter-crossed. Still every limb wore bells of gold In gay defiance of the weather. The sun-flecked tune their chiming told Was light as if a golden feather Had fallen from wide wings of spring. Though skies were cold in clouds of dun, As warm as hours June would bring, Forsythia was filled with sun. She Whitethroat in the Grass Ethel Jacobson Sparrow of the snowy throat, Whence these arias come pouring, From weedy clumps you loose a note Pure as a lark's in heaven soaring, In highest heaven soaring. Of faith you sing, though men shrug by Where praises rise from grassy altars, Of faith that knows how fond an eye Watches over you, nor falters— Faith that never falters! Stratford-Upon-Avon and the Shakespeare Memorial Theater Ramona W. Cannon HAKESPEARE could not have S been Shakespeare without Elizabethan London, with its mere 200,000 inhabitants, its brilliant coffee-house intelligentsia; its newborn spirit of youth, hope, and adventure; its beauty and brutality; its perfumed air and vile stench; its spiritual yearning; its insistence upon the importance of the individual — and with it all London's almost daily familiarity with the executioner — so much so that not death itself was what counted but only the manner of meeting death—with courage and dignity. All of these undoubtedly taught Shakespeare much of his skill in probing the diverse passions of the human heart. Shakespeare could not, however, have reached that vast universality which characterizes him above all other writers, without the lovely Warwickshire countryside where he had his important beginnings and early youth. In visiting StratfordUpon-Avon, one feels the gentle shadow of this exquisite place projecting itself into drama after drama of the master poet-playwright. How different is nature's grace in the broad embracing curve of the Avon River, from the tutored grace of Queen Elizabeth in the dance, executing a pas de chat considerably above the floor! 'The sweet air, the ancient trees, the incredible profuPage 182 sion of flowers with their slight movements, their colors and starry forms, their legends; the ever-changing ways of sky and clouds — these were undoubtedly the gossamer threads from which was woven much of Shakespeare's poetry, his Midsummer Night's Dream, As You Like It, Ophelia's mad scene in Hamlet, the romantic balcony scene from Romeo and Juliet, and many scattered lines of verse that move the soul with their beauty. The trip from London to Stratford-Upon-Avon in May was a charming introduction to the theme of Warwickshire itself. There were still patches of "bluebell woods"—carpets of tiny massed bells stretching under the trees in delicate blue glamor. Bright-colored wild flowers and "lady's white petticoats" made the scene gay. Green meadowlands ascended to rolling hills crowned with thick growths of trees in multiple shades of green interspersed with red copper beeches and other bright foliage. Lovely hedgerows divided fields and farms and grazing lands, with Hereford and Black Angus cows, pigs, and newborn lambs that looked scarcely a foot long. Lilacs bloomed exuberantly, and blossoming shrubs and fruit trees made a delicate pink and white tracery. Suddenly we were in Stratford, and we had slipped far back in time. STRATFORD-UPON-AVON Photochrom Company, Ltd. Graphic Studios, Tunbridge Wells Kent, England ANNE HATHAWAY'S COTTAGE, STRATFORD-UPON-AVON, ENGLAND Young William Shakespeare must have been familiar with many of these houses almost four centuries ago. ONE could spend days absorbing the architectural details that lend so much charm and quaintness to Stratford. 'The irregularity and diversity in the shapes of roofs, gables, substantial chimney stacks, and projecting circular thatches over dormer windows create a beautiful rustic artistry. 'The chimneys are most picturesque. 'They may be oblong, square, tall and narrow, or diagonal as in Shakespeare's daughter's home, Hall's Croft. The tops are frequently in ornamental shapes that give a beautiful architectural 183 finish to the buildings. From big chimneys rise, often, clusters of little chimney pots (pipes). The timbered houses give Stratford its most characteristic charm. Generally the handhewn timbers are set perpendicularly or diagonally in the plaster walls, but in some they are elaborately patterned with curves, which are difficult of execution, as an important part of the design. There is the same kind of alikeness in the houses as exists in people; yet the very striving for individuality that characterized the Elizabethan men and women, is evident also in these old homes. Some of them, of the pointed-architecture type, are very interesting. 184 Thrift is apparent here, too. 'There is one relic still used as a shop and home. Its front wall, stricken with age, leans toward the street, sloping from a high, steep roof, sharply pointed, to within eight feet of the ground. Scraggly thatch projects like a beetling eyebrow, and, occasionally, the birds take out a straw for their nests. 'he supporting corner timber is split wide open so an iron pipe, planted in the ground, rises at an angle of fortyfive degrees, pressing against the weakened corner timber, and is fastened to the roof at its high point. Many houses have overhanging second stories, some third stories also. 'There are thatch roofs and tile roofs. 'The leaded windows and unusual doorways give great style and beauty to the buildings. 'There are large window spaces — sometimes in the overhanging fashion — containing perhaps fifteen panels. In one window, each panel has a double-leaded circle in the center, and in the space between the leaded rings, is a fleur-de-lis design, probably a family coat of arms. Some of the glass is a greenish or bluish tint, often with a very transparent bubble in the center of the pane. 'These occasional colored bubble panes, contrasting with plain, clear ones, make interesting designs. In one doorway of fifty-four small panes, for instance, this contrasting bubble motif was worked out. Of the historic buildings in Stratford, Holy Trinity Church, where Shakespeare's remains have rested since his death in 1616, is in a remarkably beautiful location on the river bank and is representative RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 of architecture beginning with the thirteenth century. Shakespeare's birthplace is a large, handsome old home dating from the early six teenth century. The timbered room in which he was born, in 1564, has a large stone-and-brick mantel. On the glass of its one window, eminent people who have visited through the years have scratched their names, among them 'Thomas Carlyle, Isaac Watts, Sir Walter Scott, Henry Irving, and Ellen 'Terry. Of New Place — the handsomest home in Stratford at the time, which Shakespeare bought for retirement — only the foundations remain, but a memorial garden is maintained which is much like the garden the poet himself planted and tended. HE thatched cottage of Anne Hathaway in Shottery, a mile distant, is timbered outside and inside. It is a spacious farmhouse which was familiar to young William, who courted Anne there. The oldest part of the house dates from the fifteenth century; the old-fashioned garden is true to type, and the kitchen has a fireplace big enough in which to barbecue an ox, and is arrayed with old-fashioned kitchen utensils. 'There is, also, the Arden Farmstead, home of Shakespeare's mother, in nearby Wilmcote, and near the center of Stratford-Upon-Avon, is the large and elegant home of Dr. John Hall and Susanna Shakespeare Hall, daughter of the dramatist. The Shakespeare museum and picture gallery, close to the Memorial Theatre, teems with interesting items that bring Shakespearean dra- STRATFORD-UPON-AVON Photochrom Company, Ltd. Graphic Studios, Tunbridge Wells Kent, England SHAKESPEARE Be, SR MEMORIAL THEATRE, STRATFORD-UPON-AVON, ENGLAND matic history to life. Among many portraits of the poet is the famous Droeshout painting, which is one of only two in existence, "of which it can be positively asserted that they were known to anyone who ever set eyes on Shakespeare himself.' There are magnificent portraits of many distinguished Shakespearean actors through the centuries. Among them are Ellen Terry, Violet Vanbrugh, Sir Johnston Forbes Robertson, Mary Anderson, Madame Modjeska; and one especially interesting portrayal of the trial scene of Queen Katherine in Henry VIII, presents famous Fanny Kemble and other members of the acting family of the Kembles, There are many artists' conceptions — both poetic and dramatic — of great scenes in Shakespeare's plays. The walls are lined with imagined biographical portraits of Shakespeare as an infant, surrounded by the (nine) passions, Shakespeare at the baptismal font, and other pictures. 'The dagger, script, tablets, and chain used by actor Henry Irving are on display along with a cast of Sarah Siddons' lovely, artistic left hand, and a death mask and a cast of the clasped hands of beloved actress Ellen 'Terry. N 1820 Charles Mathews, British comedian, unsuccessfully attempted to create interest in building a 186 Shakespeare memorial theatre at Stratford. Later, Charles E. Flower got the idea underway and presented a two-acre site on the bank of the river. In 1879 the first Memorial Theatre was opened with a Shakespeare Festival. In 1926 the theatre was burned to the ground. Through press appeals, contributions for a new theatre poured in, with Americans giving $625,000. The present theatre was opened in 1932. It is a modern building of rose brick, dramatically situated on the bank of the curving Avon. Swans, so familiar to Shakespeare's eyes, are everywhere in evidence. I easily counted twenty-nine of the long-throated beauties floating on the wide, quiet waters. 'They were especially effective under the arched bridge which spanned the Avon in the poet's day. In front of the theatre, the flower gardens on a belvedere at the rivers edge are most artistically arranged. Yellow tulips rise high above orange-red, fragrant Siberian wallflowers. On the opposite side, red and orange parrot tulips top velvety yellow wallflowers. A wonderful rose garden is not yet in bloom, but the variety and number of flowers which are blooming surprise one. Corners of gardens are worked out in white double and quadruple daisies. In one corner of the grounds are ornamental box hedges about ten feet long, under horsechestnut trees burdened with pink blooms. In the windows of the theatre itself are boxes of bright yellow. Flowers, while inside the foyer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 is a great vase containing a most impressive arrangement of flowers centered by an enormous calla lily. The building is modern, comfortable, and well-lighted. It contains a restaurant, library, picture gallery, and its own wardrobes and workshops. Britain's best actors now take part in the Shakespeare Festival, which lasts six months. One touring company carries Shakespeare to Europe and has gone as far as Australia. The very highest standards are maintained both in their company and in the Memorial 'Theatre. I was fortunate -enough to see Hamlet, which was most satisfying. The reading of the lines and the English diction were music to the ear and made the play clear even to those who were unfamiliar with the occasional archaic phrases. 'The strolling players were particularly vivid in their parts. Perhaps that was so because the strolling players of Shakespeare's day were very good and realistic actors. A minimum of scenery was used, but that troubled no one. The properties, if scarce, were handsome. The picturesque sea chest that represented Hamlet's departure really dressed up the stage. These performances are well worth the traveler's time and effort, and forever after one will hold in one's heart a feeling for the great poet-dramatist which comes only from experiencing more closely than is possible in any other spot a little of Shakespeare himself. She American National Red Cross ON THE JOB WHEN {T COUNTS By Virginia Glenn Red Cross Field Representative HE American National Red Cross acts day in and day out, training people in first aid, home nursing, and water safety skills to help them be more self-sufficient and prepared to cope with the hazards both of peacetime living and potential enemy attack. It maintains a network of regional blood programs to help the sick and injured and to serve the Nation in great emergencies. Red Cross today is giving direct personal assistance to the people of Hungary—expressing with food, clothing, and shelter, compassion to these people in this time of international disaster. To carry on this great work, the organization needs volunteer workers to serve their neighbors through the Red Cross. And, the organization needs the financial resources which make the work possible. In some cities the Red Cross is included with other community organizations in fall campaigns. If this is the case in your community, and you did not join the Red Cross last fall, you will want to become a member in March and receive your membership card. This is your Red Cross. Keep it strong and vital. Keep the Red Cross on the job... When it counts... Where it counts. Join and Serve. —_> Apricot Sree Della Adams Leitner From my north window I can see A tree lace-clad in spring array Against the background of the hills, 'It heralds all the joys of May. Each time I look out I rejoice In loveliness that I can share; My heart is stirred to gratitude, I softly breathe a thankful prayer. It sways so gently in the breeze, The birds are flitting in and out; They voice the praise that I would sing, Dispelling thoughts of fear and doubt. At harvest time the luscious fruit On laden boughs will fill the tree, But all the beauty it now gives Supplies a feast of joy to me. Page 187 Be a Relief Society Magazine '*Promoter'"' June Nielsen Assistant to the Editor (Talk given at The Relief Society Magazine Department, Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1956.) OU are promoters—promoters of a good cause, The Relief Society Magazine, which can bring inspiration, beauty, pleasure, and knowledge to the reader with a seeking mind and an understanding heart. To "promote" means to move forward. As Latter-day Saints who believe in the principles of eternal progression, we may all continue to move forward. To help you, as promoters, move forward in your work as Magazine representatives and to help you with your problems, we have gleaned suggestions and ideas from those stakes whose promotion of the Magazine was outstanding last year (1955): first, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions during the year; second, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions in stakes making the honor roll this year and not the previous year; and third, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions having all wards one hundred per cent this year and not last year. Letters from those stake Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives tell us that it was by faith. Because of faithful ward and stake representatives and other officers, they achieved their goals. I think a concise definition of faith is: belief put into action. We might take the definition of belief from Page 188 the dictionary, which is "mental certainty." Faith is, then, mental certainty put into action. We find, in most of these stakes and wards, that definite goals were set for Magazine subscriptions. These goals varied — some stakes set one hundred per cent in all wards, others 150 per cent for the stake. 'These goals became certainties in the minds of the ward and stake representatives and officers as they went forth to accomplish the goals. 'They proceeded to put those beliefs into action throughout the year. We want to share with you some of the ways which were used to promote the Magazine. After the goals were set, in several of the stakes all of the stake officers were urged to emphasize the Magazine as they visited the various wards. 'Thus, the Magazine representative received the help and encouragement of the entire stake board. Some stakes used charts which showed the status of the wards in the Magazine campaign. Charts were displayed at union meetings. Regular Magazine departments were held in union meetings in the successful stakes last year. In these departments, topics concerning why and how to sell the Magazine were discussed. Promotional ideas which the individual ward representatives were using were exchanged. One stake BE A MAGAZINE PROMOTER reported they used the preliminary time of union meeting once each year for Magazine promotion. In this program, the ward representatives participated and were recognized for their behind-the-scenes work. 'This proved to be a very effective way of encouraging ward representatives. PERSONAL contact with the Relief Society sisters was emphasized as the greatest, single element in increasing subscriptions to the Magazine. In most of the stakes from which we have received letters, the representatives tried to make personal contact in every home in the ward. In one stake a letter was sent to each home. This letter told about The Relief Society Magazine and the goal which had been set. It was reported that the response was very encouraging. One stake representative stated that she never took The Relief Society Magazine before she was asked to be stake representative—simply because no one had ever asked her to subscribe. One stake reported that the stake representative visited Relief Society 189 meetings in all the wards with the permission of the stake Relief Society president and gave a short talk using the Magazine as a visual aid. Another stated that their representatives were "Magazine-minded," that they never went any place without their subscription receipt books because they found so many opportunities to use them. The ways of achieving the goals and putting your beliefs into action are many. 'These are a few promotional ideas that have proved effective in stakes. Some of the elements which I think could make up the word "promote" and which I think will bring success if acted upon are: P—plans—set your goals. R—teadiness—be willing and prepared. O—opportunities—make your own opportunities. M—motivations—motives mean action. O—other opportunities—be '"'Magazineminded." T—talk—the way of making personal contacts. E—enthusiasm—it is contagious and effective. No matter where you are, you can move forward or promote. Be a promoter of every good thing. My SK ortune Enola Chamberlin Days I have loved are golden days When I have said a word of praise To one in need, when I have smiled To meet the laughter of a child. Hours I have loved are silver hours When I have taken scented flowers To someone loved or quite unknown Who was shut in or just alone. These days and hours have made my years Until I find as twilight nears, And gray is creeping in my hair That I have wealth beyond compare. Embellishment Clarissa A. Beesley ROM our desks in the Salt Lake Temple annex, we watched the beautiful Relief Society building rise on the landscape. First, the huge excavation was cut deep into the ground; then the solid, massive foundations were laid, and the thick, enduring walls were raised with their insets of doors and windows; finally, the protecting roof was completed, and we said, "It is finished." But, even as we spoke, we knew it was not so; we knew that both on the outside and within the walls, there must be added manifold details of embellishment before this imposing building would be complete. And I thought, how like this is the building of a life and particularly, a Latter-day Saint life! Often, when it has been my privilege to lead a group of mature adults in a gospel study, I have said within myself, why do I attempt to discuss with these good people the things which they already know so well? They are highly intelligent; they have been trained in the Church and in its teachings through all their days; they have laid strong foundations of faith and knowledge in their childhood; in their youth and early maturity they have built the walls, girded with strength and endurance. What is left to be done? The building across the street gave the answer: 'There is still the embellishment, the beautifying to be done. As I pondered upon this, a wide vista of possible accomplishments in life's ripened years opened up before Page 190 me. I could have given much thought as to how the physical body, notwithstanding the ravages of time, might be so cared for that it would continue lovely in personal cleanliness and daintiness and sweetness of spirit, and how the mind might not be allowed to become stagnant, but be stimulated ever to be alert and seeking new treasures of knowledge and wisdom. I could wish that this might be the way with each one of us and that age might be robbed of its tragedy and be crowned with beauty, vitality, and joy. Especially I reverted to my own troubled question concerning the pursuit of gospel study and asked myself, what are some of the things to be done now in the embellishment of our spiritual lives' building, in these later years? And the answer came: First, we must be sure that the knowledge of divine principles gained through the years is without blemish. Did we grow to maturity with a correct understanding of these doctrines? In our childhood did we learn this gospel correctly, or did we receive impressions not quite accurate which we have carried with us? How many such impressions did we receive? Now is the time to give a thorough checkup to our store of information, to strengthen the buttresses of truth, and to remove any weak supports. Next, have we added to our original store of knowledge as the years have come and gone and the walls of our structure have risen, or have we been content with a EMBELLISHMENT meager supply of religious facts and failed to make replenishment from time to time? Furthermore, if our knowledge is found to be considerable, what is its source—our own research, or the findings of others? Often we may have envied the spiritual experts among us and wished we could know vital answers as did they. But have we taken the time to dig deep into the scriptures to find those answers for ourselves? How readily can we turn to desired reference passages? How well, now, today, can we give evidence of that which we speak? Then, what about the spirit, the soul of our building? Has our interior decoration become beautiful and complete by the application of knowledge gained in adorning and ennobling our character? Are there still some unadorned spots? What of the hidden envyings and grudges held long years against a neighbor, friend, or leader? What of the discontent or bitterness against our lot in life and the seeming misfortunes we have borne? What of the doubts, questionings against the acts of providence? What even of the wrongs we may have committed? 191 Or of the service or kindly deed we may have neglected? Yes, the building of our lives is not yet completed. 'There is still much embellishment to be done. We have a precious opportunity now to correct the mistakes of learning, of judgment, and of viewpoint; to add much new, beautiful truth to our store; to arrange our facts of knowledge into an orderly whole, and to become so familiar with those facts that they are made a part of us; to learn afresh what it means to repent of sin and to forgive trespasses against us; to become gentle and tender where we have been hard and unrelenting; in fine, to polish our souls until, indeed, they approach perfection and shine in exquisite beauty before that last inspection when we can say that our building is finished, ready for its final dedication. These years may not be the golden period of our experience, for that was the period of strength and virility, of great activity and achievement, our youth. But these are the silver years—mellow, chaste, sweet— the time of the embellishment to the full of the structure of our lives. << Pre ace to Day Dorothy J. Roberts A finch's psalm pours from the pinion's bough As dawn bathes me, lids closed, in coolness. Now From the roof a whir; two velvet wings flap twice Then sail away in silence. Day's precise Alarm is rung. Faintly the young doves coo. In the cone of the flowering crab, the warblers woo. The summer long, repeated just this way, Breakfasting on song, I begin the day, Clinging to dreams a while before I rise, Refreshed, to lift the curtains from my eyes. Recipes From lew Lealand Submitted by Arta R. Ballif ANCIENT Maori HAncI (Underground Steam Cooking) The ancient Maoris cooked their food in "'hangis." Method: Dig a hole one foot deep by two feet round. The shape and size vary according to the amount of food to be cooked. Line with medium-sized rocks (porous ones are best). On these place dry titree (wild scrub) and large pieces of wood to make a good fire. In an hour or so remove all traces of fire and clean the rocks by sprinkling lightly with water. Place over rocks a hangi ring (made from Nikau leaves). This keeps the food intact and allows complete removal. On this, place the food to be cooked, large pieces of pork, fish, kumara (sweet potato), pigeon, or fern root. Again sprinkle with water, generously, so as to create a steam. Cover with Nikau leaves, Nikau mat, and top soil. 'This is to prevent the escape of steam. In two hours, remove top coverings, lift out mat and the food is ready to eat. The same hangi could be a permanent cooking place. The above method is used today on special occasions with slight improvements. Today, a wire netting is placed on the rocks. A white cloth is placed between the food and the leaves, and then wet sacks are placed over. On top of this, soil is used to cover all. It is actually a steam cooking, and important points to watch are that the rocks are washed clean, that there is sufficient water to create a steam, and that every trace of charcoal or burning wood is completely removed, so there will be no taste or smell of smoke. 'The absence of smoke taste is the secret of nicely cooked food. A three or four day supply of food can be prepared at one time. MAORI OLD-TIME FOODS PIGEON (A delicacy and a favorite of the Maori) Snare required number of pigeons. Do not pluck or clean, simply cover completely with a clay paste and cook in hangi. When ready to eat, the clay will come away bringing with it all the feathers and leaving a clean and tasty dish. These birds never feed from the ground. In season they live only on the Miro berries, and this is the time they are "fat" and ready for the kill. Out of season they live on the leaves of the trees, and this signifies "no kill," as they are in a poor condition. The inside of the bird is also eaten. FERN Root (This serves as a potato to the Maori) Gather fern roots, pound, and cook in hangi. Keeps indefinitely. Dry SHARK (Do not think of man-eating sharks) After the catch, clean, remove head, and hang by the tail in the sun until completely sun-dried. Can be eaten like this, or cut in pieces and placed on embers which softens it. 'This is a favorite dish which keeps indefinitely (and so does the smell). MAORI FOODS SHOWING EUROPEAN INFLUENCE Pava FRITTERS (Paua is a large shell fish) Page 192 RECIPES FROM NEW ZEALAND | 193 4 pauas % tsp. Salt 1 small onion dash of pepper Shell pauas, mince, and season with finely chopped onion, salt, and pepper. Batter for Paua Fritters: 1 ¢c. Flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Baking powder milk Mix together the flour and baking powder with the beaten egg and sufficient milk to form a creamy batter. To this, add the paua mixture and brown in spoon lots in smoking hot fat. Serve hot. Pipt Piz (Small shell fish, similar to oysters) 1 large dish of freshly gathered pipis % tsp. Salt and dash of pepper Steam pipis sufficiently to open shells. Shell and mince. Season with onion, if desired; add salt and pepper. Line pie dish with flaky pastry and pour in pipi mixture. Cover with remainder of pastry and bake 20 minutes at 350° F. Serve hot. STEAK, OysTER, AND MusHroom Savory To every pound of meat allow one dozen oysters. (Sirloin or fillet steak are the best cuts for this dish.) Cut meat into neat pieces and place one layer in casserole. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Add a layer of chopped oysters, then a layer of chopped mushrooms. Continue this until casserole is full, Can be made with or without pastry. Cook in moderate oven one hour at 300° to 350° F. NEW ZEALAND-EUROPEAN RECIPES Anzac Biscuits 2 ozs. Flour 2 ozs. Butter 3 OzS. Sugar 1 tbsp. Golden syrup 1 teacup coconut "2 tsp. Soda 1 teacup rolled oats 2 tbsp. Boiling water Mix flour, sugar, coconut, and rolled oats. Melt butter and golden syrup. Dissolve soda in boiling water and add to butter and golden syrup. Stir in the liquid. Place in spoonfuls on cold, greased trays. Bake 15 to 20 minutes at 350° F. Ho. Uipay Loar 4 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt " tsp. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 small, cold, boiled potato 1 pint milk Sift dry ingredients. Add mashed potato. Add milk to make a soft smooth dough. Knead quickly. Put in greased bread tin about three-fourths full. Smooth top with knife dipped in melted butter and milk. Bake one hour at 350° to 4oo° F. To prevent crusting too soon, place paper over top of loaf for the first 10 to 15 minutes. When done wrap in cloth until cool. QB uttercups Mary C. Martineau OHN'S teacher was getting quite old; in fact, she was old enough to retire, but John didn't know it. John just knew that he loved her dearly and that she looked beautiful to him. She wore a brown taffeta dress with a little bunch of scarlet flowers that he liked on Monday. On Tuesday she wore a soft, black nylon dress with blue flowers and a full skirt that made her look as slim as a'fairy queen crowned with snowy hair. On Wednesday she wore purple, on Thursday blue, but on Friday she wore a suit, and at recess she put her coat on over it and tied a scarf over her head for that was her day to "tend" the playground. When the first spring days began to arrive, and the skies were blue and the sun shone, John would notice her looking up toward the old brown hills west of the schoolhouse, and he wondered what she was looking for. Then one day he found out. When recess was over, and all the children were sitting in their seats in position, she said to them, "Turn." They all turned in their seats to the right. Then she said, "Stand," and they all stood and faced her. "Now turn to the west," she said, "and look through the windows and tell me what you see." They all turned and looked through the five long windows, and there they saw only the old brown hills. They were silent. "What color are the hills, John?" she asked. A little surprised and embarrassed, he answered, "Brown, Mrs. Miller, just brown," and she said, "Yes, John, just brown." "Children," she continued, "there is magic working on those old brown hills now." Their eyes grew big. "One of these days when we look at them we will see what the magic has done. When we see them then they will not be brown, they will be green and you will know that spring is truly here." A week or so later, one morning before school began, Mrs. Miller looked up from her desk to see John standing before her, with a bunch of wild flowers—buttercups— in his hand, and he offered them to her with his broadest smile. To the delight of all the children and especially of John, she held them up for all to see and admire. "Where did you find them, John?" she asked, and he said, "On the hills." Then, to their great delight, she took one buttercup out of the bunch and held it under John's chin to see if its pollen would color his throat. The little flower cast a bright yellow shadow on his little white throat. Each child was called in turn. They giggled with joy and delight. Magic worked in the schoolroom as John's teacher said, "Now, turn, stand, and look toward the west." The old brown hills were green, and the children looked in silent wonder. But the teacher—she stood for a long moment lost in the memory of other old brown hills far away, where two little sisters and a dear pioneer mother had searched among the sages and wild grass for buttercups in the magic springtime. Page 194 Sarah Seely Larsen Has &njoyed a Sewing Hobby for Seventy Years Te many hours which Sarah Seely Larsen of Castle Dale, Utah, has spent sewing since she was fourteen, at which time she was drafting her own patterns for dresses, shirts, pants, and coats, have been enjoyable and she is far from retiring from her hobby. For seventy years, her artistic hands have made many beautiful quilts, bridal gowns, and other dresses and clothing for her own family and others. Quilt top making became a teal hobby about fifteen years ago, when she began piecing and quilting a quilt for 'each of her grandchildren to present them when they married. She now has enough quilts on hand for the grandchildren who are not married. She was born to Orange and Hanna Olsen Seely in Mount Pleasant, Utah, on _ February 7, 1872. She married Samuel H. Larsen in 1890. Her husband was bishop of Castle Dale Ward for eighteen years, and as a gracious hostess Sister Larsen received many of the General Authorities as guests in her home. Sister Larsen was secretary of a ward Relief Society for ten years and also served for many years on a sewing committee making burial clothes. She is still active in Relief Society. In work meeting, she always takes her place at the quilts. E ~<p>-< Wind Pattern Vesta N. Lukei The whispering wind-born waves caress, Insistently, the untouched beach Until the nipple-patterned sands Reveal the wind's imprint and reach. Page 195 Bitter Medicine Part 3 (Conclusion) Olive W. Burt ELEN decided to put into immediate effect her plan for curing May Turner of her bad habit of gossiping. For the next few days she kept the telephone as busy as ever May, herself, could have done. And by the time of the first sewing meeting of the P. T. A. Bazaar committee, she had talked to every woman on that committee, excepting one. Lettie had been enthusiastic, as she always was over Helen's schemes whether for a neighborhood party, a money-making project, or just new ways to trim a kitchen apron. "Youre absolutely marvelous!" she exclaimed, when Helen had outlined her proposed treatment. "Trust you to think up the only thing that will work and that we could do with dignity!" she went off into peals of laughter. "I just can't wait to begin!" "Now, Lettie," Helen cautioned, "this isn't any joke. It's serious therapy, I hope. I'm serious, at least." "Oh, so am I," Lettie agreed. "And," Helen went on firmly, "we mustn't let May get the slightest hint of what we propose, or it will absolutely fail. And _ there's another thing, Lettie. I'm counting on you to be tactful and generous, if it works." Tess Carlson was dubious. "I don't know, Helen. Oh, I'm with you one hundred per cent, but it seems so simple — such an easy way of treating something as vicious as that gossiping. I think May 'Turner Page 196 needs a dose of really bitter medicine." "This will be bitter enough, Tess," Helen said gently, and a sudden comprehension of the full impact of her program struck her, and she was afraid — afraid of hurting May too much, of being the one to inflict hurt upon another human being. Marge Lewis took it as a huge joke. "What a scream!" she giggled. "I know Ill die laughing when I see her face." "T don't think it will strike us as funny, Marge," Helen told her. "I think we'll find it pretty hard to do." "Maybe so," Marge agreed, "but don't go tender-hearted on _ us, Helen. I, for one, will relish seeing her face." She stopped abruptly, and after a moment went on, "You didn't know that I have reason to want to cure that gossiping, did you? Because we never pass around stories about our neighbors, I kept this to myself. But I'm going to tell you now. "May Turner hurt my mother dreadfully last summer, when Mother was visiting me. You know what a friendly soul Mother is, and how she thought she'd do us younger women a good turn by baby-sitting for anyone who wanted an evening off. And she did it to be friendly, and wouldn't take a cent of pay. Well, she offered to tend May's two and, of course, May snatched at the chance. But when Mother refused to take pay for doing a neighborly BITTER MEDICINE job like that, May couldn't understand it, and she began hinting around that Mother was baby-sitting just to get a chance to snoop around the houses. And her hints grew and grew, as they always do. And, of course, Mother finally got to hear what May was saying. May intended her to hear it, too. It nearly broke Mother's heart. I could have torn May's hair out when I saw Mother's face that day.", Helen shook her head sadly. "I don't think I'd have blamed you, either, Marge. How awful for your mother. She is such a darling — my Jill adored her." "All the children did — and staying with them, tucking them into bed, and telling them stories made Mother so happy. And everyone excepting May, was wonderful. You sent Mother flowers every day from your garden, and Lois Jensen made her three pretty aprons, and Lettie took her riding many an evening. Everyone made her happy but May — she had to spoil it all." "Well, then, you'll help?" Helen asked, getting back to the subject about which she had called. "Of course, [ll help. And I know some of the women on the sewing committee have just as much reason to follow your lead as I do. Pm sure it'll be unanimous." "T hope so," Helen sighed. "It will be so much swifter and better if everyone co-operates." S the time for the first sewing meeting drew near, Helen began to have misgivings. To her gentle, friendly soul her plan seemed terribly harsh and brutal. She shuddered when she thought of what She had started, and sometimes 197 thought she would have turned back the clock to pre-scheme days if she could. And then she would remember Jill, round-eyed and casual, "When is Daddy going to jail, Mommy?" And she would see Tess Carlson's tear-streaked face as she cried, "He said that to Jim—to my Jim!" And she would hear Marge's voice breaking when she said, "I could have torn her hair out when I saw Mothers face that day." 'Then Helen would straighten her shoulders, stick out her chin, and tresolve to go through with the plan. "Bitter or not, she must take her medicine!" In spite of her determination and her conviction that she was doing right, Helen found herself shaking as she dressed to go to the meeting. Her palms were wet with perspiration and her spine felt cold. She stood for a long moment before she opened the door to go out, wondering whether she would have the nerve to go through with her plan. "But I have to," she sighed. "I thought it up; I got the others into it." 'Tears stung her eyelids. "But I feel sorry for May!" She went early to the meeting, feeling that it was her responsibility to be there, to take upon her own shoulders the burden of the job ahead. But as she went into the school library, which had _ been turned over to them for these sewing sessions, she found a number of the women already there. They greeted Helen with cries of welcome, and Helen, looking at them, saw that they were as tense and worried as she. She spoke to them quietly. "Let's be as kind as we can." Then, "Let's 198 get started on our work. We're to make fiber corsages today, you know." She opened the big box of materials and began to distribute them. The women picked up the fiber and wire, the stems and leaves, and started to fashion the flowers they had learned to make during a winter craft class. They had scarcely begun, however, when the door opened and May came bustling in, cheery and efficient, ready to do her full share of the task. Helen, seeing her this way, recalling what a good worker she was, felt her throat swell with pain at the thought of what lay ahead. Mercifully, though, she knew that May was unaware of their plan. For perhaps half an hour everything went along smoothly and happily, the busy snip, snip, snip of the scissors making a pleasant staccato accompaniment for the buzz of conversation. 'The topics discussed were harmless enough: the bright sayings of the children, the efforts of the teachers to help a backward youngster, gardens, food, books. And then, as everyone knew it would, the gossip began. May leaned closer to Marge Lewis, who happened to be sitting next to her, and said in a hissing whisper that could be heard all around the long table, "Oh, Marge, I just have to tell you. You know Miss Wilson, the third grade teacher? Well, what do you think? I was coming out of the drugstore last night—Teddy had a cough and I'd tun down to pick up some cough medicine—and I saw her with." Her voice stopped suddenly, and a startled look came into her eyes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 as they rested on Marge's face. Marge had very quietly laid down her work and placed her hands over both ears. HE blood came slowly into May's face, dyeing it a painful red, and she turned quickly to see whether anyone had noticed Marge's gesture. And as her eyes flew around the table, the red in her face and neck grew deeper, mottled, as if it would burst from the pores. For every woman there had her hands firmly over her eyes or her lips or her ears. May 'Turner swallowed hard, ducked her head, and began to work furiously. The others took up their work where they had dropped it, and the buzz of conversation began again. But no one felt like smiling at May's discomfiture. Every woman there felt as if it had been her own punishment, and the conversation was kept up with difficulty. Helen felt her throat constricted with pain, but she made herself tell an anecdote about Jill and her guppies, and gradually the tension eased a little and things seemed almost normal again. For another half hour, and then May, who had kept determinedly out of the conversation, heard someone mention Clarice Hapgood, whohad just announced her engagement. This was too much for May. She looked up, evidently forgetting her recent discomfiture, and _ began, "That reminds me, girls! Clarice is just twenty, isn't she? Well, you know I don't believe she is really the Hapgood's child. Just twenty years ago Jane Hapgood...." She stopped, gulped, and again BITTER MEDICINE the blood rushed to her face. All around the table the women sat, hands over eyes, ears, and lips. May jumped to her feet, flinging down her work. "You awful women!" she cried. "You're horrible! Horrible! I hate you all!" and she turned and ran from the room. Helen got up quickly and followed her. Outside in the hall May stood leaning against the wall, her hands over her face, her shoulders shaking with sobs. Helen went swiftly to her. "May!" she said gently. "Go away! Go away!" May cried. "T don't want to talk to any of you! You all act so superior — you all pretend " Her words were stopped by her crying. Helen put her arms about the shaking woman. "I know it was awful," she began, close to tears herself. ""But we felt we had to do something." "You all hate me, you always have!" May went on hysterically. "I try to be one of you. I work hard at everything we have to do— I never shirk, never ask anyone to do my share. I want to be one of you — I did want to. But not any more. [| hate you all!" "No," Helen said. "No, you don't hate us—not the others, anyway. You can hate me if you must, May, because it was my idea. I talked the others into it.. AY'S hands dropped from her face and she stared at Helen in surprise. "You? You, the incomparable Helen Lund? You thought this up! Well, now I know you for what you are!" "Yes," Helen admitted sadly, "yes, you do. And I guess I'm not 199 any better than I need be. But you see, May, your gossiping was hurting people. I don't think you realize how much you were hurting us all. Did you know that Jim Carlson nearly lost his partnership because you told around that he'd been in a crooked uranium deal and made a lot of money at it?" "T didn't say that he had!'' May objected belligerently. "I just said I wouldn't be surprised." "And Jill was wondering when her Daddy was going to go to jail. Oh, May, you've said things about us all—things that weren't true, that didn't have a single basis in truth. And we just had to stop you." "But why me?" May wailed. "Why pick on me?" Helen sat down on a bench there in the hall and drew May down beside her. Then, much as she had spoken to Jill a few days earlier, she said quietly, "Look at me, May. It's because you are the one who starts these stories—every time." May sat still a moment and then said, sniffling a little, "Well, you have done what you wanted to do. You've showed me you don't want me here. I'll resign from the P. T. A., and if I can get Ted to move, well move, and you won't be bothered with me any more. You've never liked me." "We do like you, May. We like you so much that we were willing to go through this unpleasant scene in order to cure you of the one thing we can't tolerate any longer. Don't you ever think of what harm you are doing?" May sat silent, wiping her eyes. Then she raised her head. "I guess I don't think, really." She began to cry again. "I don't know what's 200 the matter with me — I don't know why I do it! Sometimes, when you people have been extra nice to me I make up my mind [Il never breathe another word about you. And then something happens—and I feel left out. I want to be in with you, attract your attention—so I say something I know will startle you— anything. Lots of times I don't even think what I am going to say —it just pops out." Helen looked at the woebegone face, and impulsively she gave May's shoulders a friendly squeeze. "You sound just like a little girl— a contrite little girl!" she smiled gently. And then she went on firmly, "But you're not a little girl, May. You're a woman, and we want you to be one with us." May shook her head sadly. "But how can I? How can I ever speak to any of you again? [I'll always see those dreadful faces with their hands...." She choked on the words. "Tl tell you what to do, May. Come back into the room with me. Act as if nothing had happened. You llesee. Everyone will be glad it is over." May made no move to tise. "Maybe it's not over, Helen. Maybe Pll forget and start gossiping again Will they — are they going ie. F, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 "Yes, May. I think they will. I think they will keep on with this treatment until they cure you." "Then what can I do?" "Take it in the spirit in which it is meant, May. It is bitter medicine, but it is given as medicine, just that. Swallow it — and if you need repeated doses, take them like the woman you are. You have plenty of courage, I know — plenty of spunk. Come on, then. Let's make use of it." The word spunk seemed to do the trick. May's shoulders straightened. She stood up. Her head raised. "You're right, Helen. I do have spunk — as much spunk as any of them." She managed a _ tueful smile. "And I guess it did take a good deal of gumption for you all to do this — I know you well enough to know that you didn't particularly relish it—or you'd have done it long before this. Well, come on. Let's go back into the room and face my doctors." Her voice broke a little, but she walked purposefully toward the door. Helen followed slowly. She knew she could count on the others to do the right thing—to act as if nothing unusual had taken place that afternoon. And she could count on May, too. She was a soldier— she was worth curing! -~—_—. She Length Frances C. Yost The thing a lady won't discuss, Or does with brevity, The darkest secret of her past, Her own longevity. FROM THE FIELD aK All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Leona S. Seiter GRANITE STAKE (UTAH) HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION Honored with all the visiting teachers of Granite Stake at a program and buffet luncheon were the oldest visiting teachers (in point of service) from each of the six wards in the stake. Front row, left to mght, are: Lucinda C. Harrington, Columbus Ward, fortythree years of service as a visiting teacher; Martha Jane R. Johnson, Fairmont Ward, sixty-six years of service. Back row, left to right: Mervel A. Hall, Nibley Park Ward, forty-five years of service; Rhoda Reid, Forest Dale Ward, fifty years of service; Gertrude Johnson, Wells Ward, forty-nine years of service; Dora R. Wilcken, Lincoln Ward, thirty-four years of service. Elsie B. North, President, Granite Stake Relief Society, reports that "a large percentage of all visiting teachers were in attendance and enjoyed an inspiring program and buffet luncheon," Page 20] 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Photograph submitted by Marion N. Pinkston LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ADAMS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS ELDERLY MEMBERS Front row, seated, left to right: Marie Clark, Secretary, Adams Ward Relief Society; Faye Moon, Second Counselor; Ingeborg Brinck, First Counselor; Mary Evelyn Spencer, President. Marion N. Pinkston, President, Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: 'This midsummer celebration honored the Relief Society sisters who have been members for over fifty years. Many of the sisters in this protograph have been members of the Adams Ward since the days when it was the only ward in Southern California. There are now 213 wards in the Southern California area." HH UAL Photograph submitted by Edna S. Walker ALPINE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY COMMEMORATES THE ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN AMERICAN FORK, UTAH September 26, 1956 More than forty Relief Society sisters participated in the program of the opening social which, also, commemorated the organization of Relief Society in American Fork, October 24, 1856. Shown in the picture, left to right, are: Melissa Robinson; Doris Robinson; Norma Smith; Harriet Mulliner; Emma Steiner; Nellie Crystal; Nancy NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Reece; Mary McTague; Mary Griffith; Edna S. Walker, Stake Relief Society President; Cleone Cleghorn, Counselor; Erma Burgess, Counselor; Dorothy Wright; Esther Christensen; Lucile Walker; Alice Vance; Elsie Strong; Myrtle Seastrand; Luana Smith. Back row: Leona Anderson; Jean Gordon; Vivian Barker; Myrl Scott; Lillie Beck; Josie Walker; Zella Thornton; Lydia Kirkpatrick. In the program, from the frame on the right, the story of the first Relief Society in American Fork was dramatized. Sister Elsie Strong represented the first American Fork Relief Society president, Agnes Crooks. Scenes typical of this period, such as wheat gleaning, visiting teaching when commodities were gathered, and silkworm raising, were pictured. The second part of the program introduced the 1956-57 program. Musical numbers in keeping with the theme of each course were presented, and refreshments were served. Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Nielsen LEHI STAKE (UTAH), FAIRFIELD BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS GAIN JOY FROM QUILT-MAKING EXPERIENCE Left to right, front row: Myrtle Erickson; Lois Maybe; Sophronia Dubois, Secretary-Treasurer; Leah McKinney, President, Fairfield Branch Relief Society; Mildred Carson, Second Counselor; and Vera Carson, First Counselor. Back row: President Oscar A. Kirkham of The First Council of Seventy, and Caroline Cook. Ruby M. Nielsen, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, sends in the report of Sister McKinney that the day the sisters were quilting the quilt which had been pieced by Edith Strasburg of Lehi, they were discussing ways in which to sell the quilt to someone outside the branch. Then President Kirkham came, and "he brought such a sweet peaceful spirit with him. He encouraged us and told us we were doing a wonderful work. He wanted to buy the quilt, said collecting pieced quilts was his hobby. He said, "They remind me of my mother.'" Sister McKinney continues: "Of course, we were honored to add this quilt to his collection.... He asked that we all put our names on the quilt, then bring it to him at his office. "The day we took the quilt to Brother Kirkham was full of memorable experiences.... As we lunched with this kind, loving man, he introduced us to a number of other Church authorities. Then we saw many more including President McKay. We visited the Church offices and toused the temple grounds." —— 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 -— Photograph submitted by Isabella P. Walton SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH) JOINS WITH BEAR RIVER STAKE AND NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE SINGING MOTHERS IN PRESENTING MUSIC FOR SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE September 2, 1956 South Bear River Stake President Isabella P. Walton is seated fourth from the left on the front row; pianist Christine Mason at the piano; organist Ann Freiss, standing back of Sister Mason; organist Arlene Ficklin, at the left of Sister Freiss; Prudence W. Reeder, North Box Elder Stake chorister, back of Sister Ficklin; Hilma C. Anderson, South Bear River Stake chorister, and conductor of the group, seated third to the right of the piano, in the front row. This group participated, with other Singing Mothers choruses, in the October annual general Relief Society conference. Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), TWENTIETH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PAST AND PRESENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS HOLD OUTSTANDING SOCIAL Front row, left to right: Rilla Beck, President, Twentieth Ward Relief Society; past presidents: Katherine Smeding; Elva Kunz; Grace McFarland; and Kate Woodbury, former Ogden Stake. President. Second row, left to right: Myrtle Hansen; Mildred Alkema; Mabel Belnap; Martha London; Mary Perkins; Lenora Jacobsen; Caroline Kranenberg; Mattie Manning. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Third row, left to right: Ella Anderson; Ruth Williams; Alice Martin; Addie Pulsipher; Vera Arrington; Edith Arnold. Officers who were not present when the picture was taken are: Bergloit Dinsdale; Eliza Carruth; Bessie Mumford; Marcella Carruth. Cleona W. Hedenstrom, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: ""I'wentyeight years of Relief Society were informally talked over at the anniversary party of the Twentieth Ward Relief Society of Ogden Stake. Former ward executive officers were guests of honor at this program" which was "'one of the outstanding parties of the season. A beautiful red rose was presented to each of the guests, symbolizing the love the ward organization feels for each one of these faithful sisters." Photograph submitted by Mildred B. Jarvis MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, September 27, 1956 Visiting teachers who have served over forty years in the Maricopa Stake are pictured, left to right, first row: Lillian Palmer; Pearl Mathenia; Blanche Boyle; Hazel McCook; Edna Martin; Harriett Webb; Minnie Bond; Vera Judd. Back row: Esther Lewis; Ida Wakefield; Nettie Shumway; Louise Skousen; Vera Jennings; Dora Openshaw; Phoebe Scott. Not present: Hattie Miller and Sina Mortensen, eighty-nine, who has served as a visiting teacher for the longest period of time. Mildred B. Jarvis, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward participated through song, prayer, or speech, and all wards were well represented in general attendance." She writes that a skit on the presentation of the message in the homes was enacted by visiting teachers from the Mesa Fourth Ward, written by Lillian Peterson, stake visiting teacher message leader. A tribute to all women who have accepted the visiting teacher calling was presented by Sister Peterson. "Stake board members contributed much to the success of the convention through their arrangement of details, friendliness, and good will extended to the sisters,' and by furnishing and serving the refreshments. 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 OSE, Photograph submitted by Belva Petersen EAST OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-SIXTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS OLDEST MEMBERS, September 27, 1956 Belva Petersen, President, East Ogden Stake, reports that Elizabeth Clarke East, (left) and Ida H. Wilson Spence (right), were special guests at the opening social of the Thirty-sixth Ward Relief Society. Leona Nielson, (center) President, Thirtysixth Ward Relief Society, presented corsages to the two sisters who are eighty-two years old. Sister East has been active in Relief Society for twenty-three years and Sister Spence is a visiting teacher and has been in Relief Society for twenty years. Both are converts to the Church. A program and dinner featured the occasion. Oe Not By Chance Gene Romolo How comes reanimation of the earth, As spring, each year, its golden wings unfolds? Not just by chance, this miracle has birth. The sentient mind, a Master's hand, beholds— Clothing with sheen of sun, the daffodil Fashioning the violet's purple gown... Increasing music in a rippling rill And placing upon lily brows a crown. That which comes by chance will have its flaw, This is perfection born of highest law. Herbs for Mlodern Cookery TARRAGON Elizabeth Williamson ARRAGON is a_ perennial which grows about two feet high. It may be divided in the fall and starts made from cuttings or root divisions. The superior variety, French tarragon, produces no seeds. Esdragon is the French word for tarragon, which means "little dragon." "Little dragon" referred to snakes and reptiles during the middle ages. 'The leaves of the herb esdragon (tarragon) were used in healing the bites of the reptiles. Esdragon or tarragon is a delicate herb, growing beautifully. It produces dark green leaves and tiny white blossoms which give off a delightful spicy aroma. Tarragon is most commonly known for its use in vinegars, but if used sparingly in seasoning for fish sauces (Tartar) and to flavor chicken, these foods will have a subtle and different quality. PouLET ET EsSDRAGON (Chicken and Tarragon) This is a recipe from a small restaurant in Southern France specializing in this EASTER MUSIC for (¢ IE PAT Qs \f CHORUSES Cae oN =. CHRIST AROSE—Groton 18 es. CHRIST HAS RISEN—Schubert 20 eevee CHRIST THE LORD IS RISEN SEEN —Eab > 22- Se 16 i EASTER BELLS (2 Part)—Durocher.20. GOD SO LOVED THE WORLD— Cee Stoiner 2.-cceeeeeeeeeeeeececceeneeeeeee -16 —— HOSANNA—Granier. --- "20 — HOSANNA BLESSED IS HE— Marryott - 2- -..::.0.--ceeeseeeenenenenenees 18 — JOYOUS EASTER SONG—House.20 —_ LEGENDE—Tschaikowsky -.-..20 _ a MY REDEEMER LIVES—Gates.20 oe OUR CHRIST HAS RISEN—Connor.25 a THERE IS A GREEN HILL FAR AWAY—Gounod 2-. Eenneeeceeeneeee 18 Music Sert Gn Approval Use this advertisement as your order -blank: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Lst South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Ll On Approval CL] Charge [] Money Enclosed Name Address: City & State Fe mc e wee eee cee ts Bowe COCO SSO H CRATE EE EEESES ESE ESESSSH SESH SESSSSSESSESEESOS Daynes Made |.15 BE. Fe South scien Gieseren oxtuo d cngo vaste Page 207 208 dish. The tarragon sauce is served over steamed rice, with boiled chicken. This dish, with a leafy, green salad is a gourmet's meal. TARRAGON SAUCE Y, pt. Cream 2 tbsp. Flour salt and ground pepper to taste Y, cube butter 1 pinch of tarragon This is a rich sauce, unusual and rather exotic in flavor. Window Ga rdens Gladys Hesser Burnham My mother's window sills were full Of coleus and fern, Geraniums and violet plants, Each striving in its turn To blossom best or bush the most, Rewarding tender care, Just like her children growing in That loving, fragrant air. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomelybound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles ----------+-+ 35 150 to 300 miles - - --.39 300 to 600 miles --.-.---.--- 45 } 600 to 1000 miles - -.--.- --- 54 1000 to 1400 miles ------.----.64 1400 to 1800 miles ----.-.------- 76 Over 1800 miles - ------------2---++ 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Birthday Congratulations IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Julia C. Burr, Provo, Utah, ninety-nine; Mrs. Lorine I. Higbee, 'Toquerville, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Esther Sessions Barber, Syracuse, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Ann Dalley Pratt, Bountiful, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Clara B. Singleton, Ferron, Utah, ninetyfour; Mrs. Wilhelmina Wiltbank Marble, Lehi, Arizona, ninety-two; the following women who _ have reached their ninety-first birthdays: Mrs. Minnie S. Weibel, South Gate, California; Mrs. Pamela E. Thompson Smith, Centerville, Utah; Mrs. Lucy Ann Francis Jenson, Clarkston, Utah; Mrs. Emma Peterson Riddle, Richfield, Utah; Mrs. Anna S. Hillstead, Preston, Idaho; Mrs. Catherine Bennett, Pocatello, Idaho; and the following women who have reached their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Eleanor Spencer Jensen, Sandy, Utah; Mrs. Nona Phippen, Alhambra, Callifornia; Mrs. Rose Ann Guidici Young, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Louisa Neat Grimmett, Paris, Idaho; Mrs. Mary Ann Batty Smith, Randolph, Utah; Mrs. Anna May Stratton Smith, Sherman Oaks, California. ~~ Robin Evelyn Fjeldsted There is a robin out there, On a bare icy limb. He came back too soon, For the weather is grim. He has waited for spring, Its warmth he has missed; To see winter in flight, He could not resist, SPECIAL SPRING TYPEWRITING CLASSES FOR RELIEF SOCIETY AND GENEALOGY WORKERS d Classes to run 6:30-8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Includes both beginning and advanced students. Avis Rundell, instructor. Call EMpire 3-2765 today LDS BUSINESS CLASSES 70 North Main Salt Lake City THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos —~-— EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ELECTRIC W ATER HEATING costs the average family only about a dime a day Buy from Your Dealer or Plumber Be Modern Live Electrically | UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. VIDA FOX CLAWSON ANNOUNCES HAWAII Leave for a lovely Hawaiian Tour from Salt Lake City on June 6, 1957. Historie Train Leaves Salt Lake City, July 26, 1957 The Historic Train includes: Places of Interest in Church History, Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and Large Eastern Cities. Warning: Both of these tour parties will be limited in number. Make reservations early. Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 MESSAGES OF INSPIRATION; 1. MESSAGES OF INSPIRATION This outstanding group of addresses by the General Authorities, selected by them personally, includes inspiring discussions on many aspects of the Restored Gospel. $3.75 2. DISCOURSES OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH: am gin Compiled by Alma P. Burton =: mie S EPI Z| SMITH, Archaeology and the Book of Mormon Excerpts from important sermons by the Prophet Joseph Smith are conveniently arranged for immediate reference. This special treatment offers a better opportunity 'to understand the Prophet and the truths revealed to him. $3.00 3. ARCHAEOLOGY AND THE BOOK OF MORMON Milton R. Hunter Dr. Hunter's personal tour of Book of Mormon country (Mexico and Central America) is described with all the excitement of a present-day novel. Over 134 intriguing photographs are included. $4.50 Se Mitts R Rarer wa DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money Mail this order ( ) charge to my account for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Amount enclosed $ eseescsseeeecsseeeeeees; order coupon NMG eee cecensneeessennecenenerntnetnecenenenenent MieWEGSR ~ 22 -..------anenanncennecnrenenonnnenoecce-nssseennneal GaAY " 0cccessssnccenenanannnasennnsnennnensnas ae! A) oesaoe Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. | | I | | | convenient | l I | I | 
