Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1912.					No. 7.


[image of a woman]
		MOTHER

[Column 1]
Speechless I stand before her shrine,
Enough to know that she is mine.
Garlands of love let me entwine,
A chaplet for a soul divine.

[Column 2]
Whilst others costly gifts may bring,
And loud and long her praises sing,
And honors rare are proffering,
Love is my only offering.

[Column 3]
Perhaps some time we’ll fondly trace
In memory’s book her wondrous grace.
Ah! Then my gift will claim its place
Love—hallowed time can ne’er efface.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EMMELINE B. WELLS, LIT. D.
	The year 1912 among other remarkable
things has a twenty-ninth of February thus
giving our dear “Aunt Em” a birthday.
It is quite customary for a family to cele-
brate the coming of age of one of its mem-
bers and this rule was strictly adhered to
by the people of Utah in the coming of
age of their gifted and loved citizen Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, who though eighty-
four years old was permitted on this day to
celebrate her twenty-first birthday. It
would be almost impossible to tell the many
expressions of love and admiration sent
to Mrs. Wells during the weeks preceding
and following her anniversary. Beautiful
letters from stake presidents of Relief Soci-
eties throughout the Church, cards and
letters from friends in distant lands, tele-
grams from distinguished people,came pour-
ing in upon her until she was almost over-
whelmed with such evidences of admiration.
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.
	On Saturday the 24th of February the
Daughters of the Pioneers devoted their
regular monthly meeting to her honor, the
program including a sketch of Mrs. Wells’s
social and home life by her daughter Mrs.
Annie Wells Cannon, and readings from
her poems by her granddaughter Miss
Katharine Cannon. At this meeting the
Summerhays quartet sang the beautiful
song “Mother o’er Israel” composed in Mrs.
Wells’s honor by Prof. Edward P. Kimball.
The meeting was presided over by Mrs.
Elizabeth R. Wright, the president, who
also paid a tribute to Mrs. Wells. The
honored guest responded in a very quaint
and pretty speech and related some of her
pioneer experiences. The Relief Society
parlors in the Bishop’s building were beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion and refresh-
ments were served during a social hour
after the program.
	UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	On the evening of the 28th of February
Mrs. Wells was guest of honor at a splendid
entertainment given by the Utah Woman’s
Press Club of which club Mrs. Wells is
founder and honorary president. The
auditorium in the Bishop’s building was
the scene of this occasion, where gathered
a large and representative number of Mrs.
Wells’s friends and admirers to do her honor.
The large room was beautifully decorated
in the national colors with clusters of small
flags about the room and two large ones
at the head of the building forming a dra-
pery for a life size portrait of the guest
of honor which occupied a central space.
Flowers were everywhere in evidence, there
were palms and potted plants and vases
of jonquils, roses and carnations. The
event was presided over by Dr. Jane Skol-
field, president of the club, and the numbers
on the program were introduced by the
secretary, Mrs. Blake.
	A most delightful part of the evening
were the musical numbers furnished by
one of Utah’s most talented daughters, Mrs.
Maggie Tout Browning, who not only sang
her numbers on the program but very hap-
pily responded to the demands of the en-
thusiastic audience and sang a number of

[Column 2]
ballads, “In my Garden,” “The Rosary” and
others.
	“My Mountain Home So Dear,” com-
posed by Mrs. Wells, was the first number,
a quartet, rendered by Fred C. Graham,
Julian Thomas, Jennie Skolfield and Mrs.
Browning.
	Prof. Kimball’s song by the Summerhays
quartet was repeated on this occasion by
request.
	On the stand with Mrs. Wells and the
officers of the Press Club were Governor
William Spry, ex-Governor Thomas, Hon.
B. H. Roberts and other noted people, while
the audience included prominent club wom-
en, educators and literary people of the city.
	In Governor Spry’s address he said that
Mrs. Wells, because of her labors in many
directions for the welfare of the state, be-
longed to the state, for her interest in hu-
manity had been limited by neither creed,
rank, nor politics. “It is her faith, her
dreams, her efforts put into practice
throughout her long life which have helped
to put you and me where we are today.”
	Hon. B. H. Roberts paid a humorous and
pretty eulogy to the guest of honor, saying
he had been watching the career of “Aunt
Em” through her teens and was glad to 
see her emerge from them and arrive at
her majority. He hoped her maturity would
reap the fruits of her youthful dreams
and efforts and that she might live to see
every dream fulfilled. Mr. Roberts said he
would take the liberty of bestowing on
“Aunt Em” a universal degree, for she be-
longed not only to the state but had inter-
national claim both for sympathy and for
admiration, for her work had been of world-
wide scope in aim and effort; he wished
therefore to confer the degree of D. E. W.
L.T., which interpreted means, “Dear Em-
meline, we love thee.” This sentiment
was greeted with great applause.
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon read excerpts
from Longfellow’s poem, “Morituri Salu-
tamus,” a favorite poem of her mother’s,
and Miss Nellie Shipp recited one of Mrs.
Wells’s poems, “My Dear Old Garden.” The
Press Club presented Mrs. Wells with a
basket of roses, the presentation being made
by little Miss Done.
	Governor Thomas and others took part in
the program, after which refreshments were
served.
	AT THE BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	Another part of the paper tells of the
dinner party given by President and Mrs.
Julina L. Smith at the Beehive House on
the afternoon of the 29th. After this func-
tion the General Board of the Relief Society
became hostesses at a large reception in the
auditorium of the Bishop’s building which
was the crowning event of the festivities in
honor of this distinguished lady.
	RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION.
	On the evening of the 29th the General
Officers and Board of Directors of the Re-
lief Society held an open reception in honor
of their president, Emmeline B. Wells.
	A very large number of friends and rela-
tives gathered on this occasion which was
quite informal and very pleasing.
	The event was distinguished by some
gems of speech and literary thought, many
of them quite humorous, but the event of
the evening was the conferring on Mrs.
Wells the degree of Doctor of Literature by
the Brigham Young University. Among the
guests were the First Presidency of the
Church, members of the Church board of
education, and members of the faculty of
the Brigham Young University, including
President Brimhall. Prof, and Mrs. Keeler,
and Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry. Ex-Governor
Wells acted as master of ceremonies and
after a felicitous opening speech recited the
following original jingle which together
with Mr. Whitney’s very interesting and
reminiscent speech we reproduce at the re-
quest of many readers.
	JUST OUT OF HER TEENS.
Our dear young Aunt Em is just out of her
	teens,
Now hearken, my children, and learn what it
	means.
She’s had twenty-one birthdays—that’s reck-
	oned a score,
And so she should be twenty-one and no more.
How comes it then, children, that history tells
She has long been the widow of Daniel H.
	Wells?
Has daughters who own up to forty or more,
And children and grand ones and great ones
galore?
She published her poems way back in the
	eighties,
And two of her girls are older than Kate is;
For full forty years she has had no opponent
As writer in chief for the Woman’s Exponent.
All over the world, attending conventions
And lifting her voice for woman’s contentions,
Julia Ward Howe and Anna H. Shaw
And Susan B. Anthony all called her “Ma.”
The pioneers crossed the plains very early,
Yet in one of their trains was our dear little
	girlie;
And the people who lived back in that gener-
	ation
Seemed to regard her with some veneration.
And after the days of the “Mormon” hegira,
in Kanosh, Koosharem, Kanab and Kanarrah,
She founded and organized women’s societies—
Like the pickles of seven and fifty varieties.
The oldest inhabitant recalls with some sport
How he took her to parties down in the Old
	Fort,
How she danced and cavorted and ne’er would
	surrender,
So long as the fiddle was played by Hop
Pender.
The Salt Lake policeman at night on his beat
Knows perfectly well those tired young feet;
She’s the girl without rubbers, stays out until
	two,
Goes home in a hack to East Waterloo.
And there isn’t a boy to a grasshopper knee
	high,
In Manti, Moroni or Nephi or Lehi,
Who wouldn’t stoop down and kiss at the hem
Of that old Paisley shawl that covers Aunt Em.
And who is the man so bold and heroic
Who could stand up and say like a blooming
	old stoic
That evidence counts her age eighty-four,
When of birthdays she’s had but a limited
	score?
Now hearken, my children, and you’ll surely
	see
The good Lord above us knows better than we.
He said to Aunt Em as she came down the
	pike,
“You are going to live just as long as you like.”
So he gave her one birthday in four, don’t you
	see,
And that explains all the controversy.
So hearken, my children, and learn what it
	means,
This dear old young girl is just out of her
	teens.


[Column 1]
	Junius F. Wells also paid a tribute to
“Aunt Em,” expressing the affection with
which the Wells family regarded her, one
of his allusions being that “Aunt Em” had
married Bishop Newel K. Whitney, which
was no doubt the reason that the Bishop
Whitney of today was so famous a poet.
	H. G. Whitney, who was asked to repre-
sent the Whitneys, gave a five minute ad-
dress, largely reminiscent in character, of the
early days passed in “Aunt Em’s” cottage
on State street, almost a second home to
the Whitneys. He praised any movement
that looked to the payment of tributes to
the pioneers while they were still in the
flesh, and said more funeral orations ought
to be delivered in advance of the funerals.
Speaking of the tie between the Whitneys
and Wellses, he said:
	“I remember that when we were very,
very young, I was aware that there was a
family tie of some remote kind that united
us with ‘Aunt Em’s’ branch of the Wells
family, and my brother Orson and I used
to feel a great pride in it, I remember,
indefinable as it was to us. I think we re-
garded the Wells family in the light of a
great clan, something like the McGregors
of Scotland, with ourselves as humble off-
shoots, and ‘Aunt Em’ the link that con-
nected us. I know that the great domain
of the Wellses as it stretched, to my boyish
eyes, over a wide expanse, south of the City
Creek wilds where we Whitneys ranged,
seemed vast and illimitable. To our childish
fancy, the great house that stood on the
Templeton corner was a sort of a huge,
feudal castle, containing an army of servi-
tors, with Brother Snarr as the dreaded
chief warder of the tower.”
	He also mentioned the meetings of the
old Wasatch society that met in “Aunt
Em’s” home, at which she and Squire Wells
were interested listeners. He concluded by
saying that he could not do justice to the
subject of “Aunt Em” if he confined him-
self to prose, and with her permission he
would lapse into poetry with the following:
Proud Wellses, tho’ you claim Aunt Em,
	Your title is the worst,
Your mortgage is a second one,
	The Whitneys hold the first.
So while we’re willing you should share
	Our claim—and won’t oppose it
Please keep that mortgage well in mind,
	Lest some day we foreclose it.
	This couplet was greeted with laughter
and applause and so moved one of the Wells
clan in the audience (Rulon S.) that he
turned out the following impromptu which
he tendered “Aunt Em” at the end of the
session.
	The Whitneys claim a prior right,
		And threaten to foreclose,
	The adjudication of this case
		We’ll leave to Him who knows;
	But this I know and do maintain,
		That you are ours pro tern,
	And in the great eternity
		You’ll always be “Aunt Em.”
	Bishop Orson F. Whitney made some re-
marks and recited two poems. Elder J.
Golden Kimball followed with a characteris-
tic talk on why he loved “Aunt Em.” He
said, “I love Aunt Em because of her can-
dor, truthfulness, honesty, integrity and loy-
alty to her friends, the Church of Jesus
Christ and her fellow beings. She is big

[Column 2]
hearted and generous in her sentiments. The
golden rule is her great morality and
daily life and all its wonderful problems her
great theme. She is not narow minded, in-
tolerant or bigoted, because she has an en-
lightened mind. She is just a great, big-
hearted little woman and I love her because
can’t help it.”
	Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury paid a
loving tribute to Mrs. Wells and said she
was honored in being present and having the
opportunity of voicing her admiration for
one whom she considered a gifted and re-
markable woman.
	President Lund reviewed some of the
labors of the honored guest and eulogized
her wonderful life work, while President
Penrose gave a brief review of her life in a
humorous and appreciative way dwelling
somewhat on her interest in vital public
questions, especially the suffrage for which
she had made a gallant fight.
	The chief feature of the occasion was the
conferring of the degree of Doctor of Litera-
ture by the Brigham Young University of
Provo, the ceremony being conducted by
President Joseph F. Smith, who in a short
address recited the history of the accordance
of the degree, the first to be given any woman
in the state. They felt that she had won this
distinction through her attainments, and
while it added nothing to her individual
gifts, already in evidence, yet it marked the
appreciation in which they were held. He
took pleasure therefore in handing to her
the document conferring the degree.
		THE DEGREE.
	Brigham Young University,
	Provo City, Utah, U. S. A.
	In recognition of the eminent literary
attainments of Mrs. Emmeline Blanche
Wells and upon recommendation of the
General Church Board of Education, and of
the Faculty of Brigham Young University,
the Board of Trustees, by virtue of the au-
thority vested in it, confers upon her the de-
gree of Doctor of Literature with all the
rights, privileges and honors thereunto ap-
pertaining.
	Given this Twenty-ninth day of February,
in the year of our Lord the Nineteen Hun-
dred Twelfth, and of the Brigham Young
University the Thirty-sixth.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH,
		President of the Board of Trustees,
			GEORGE H. BRIMHALL,
				President of the Faculty.
	As the words were spoken the entire
audience rose, and many eyes were moist
during the impressive scene, as Mrs. Wells
responded, wearing the cap and gown. She
expressed her deep feeling at the honor ac-
corded her, and said that it meant much to
her not only as a personal tribute, but as a
matter of honor to her sex. It had always
been a matter of regret to her that great
educational institutions had withheld this
distinction from women, and she hoped that
this would have its influence in showing that
Utah withheld nothing from the women of
the state.
	Mrs. Wells also gave a number of per-
sonal reminiscences.
		AN UNIQUE HONOR.
	No such honor has ever been done a wom-
an before in Utah or indeed in the West;
it is rare anywhere in the world. Yet it
is most fitting that Utah, where equal suf-

[Column 3]
frage prevails and has been popular for
years, should be the first of new common-
wealths where such high recognition should
be given to so thoroughly worthy a recipient
as in this instance.
	The addresses and exercises of the eve-
ning were interspersed with delightful musi-
cal selections, Miss Romania Hyde render-
ing beautiful violin numbers, and a quartet
composed of Geo. D. Pyper, Horace Ensign,
H. G. Whitney and J. D. Spencer giving
two songs.

	All during the day letters, telegrams and
gifts, the latter mostly in the way of flowers,
were showered upon “Aunt Em.” Among
the gifts was a handsome white brocaded
silk gown from the Relief Society Board, a
handsome silk lace scarf from the Oneida
Stake Relief Society and an embroidered
hand bag made of Utah silk from the Box
Elder Stake Relief Society. So many hon-
ors and so much love would almost over-
whelm any one and dear little “Aunt Em”
can only say in reply to it all, “I love you
every one, and my service is yours and our
Father’s in Heaven.”
	TELEGRAMS AND SENTIMENTS.
“There are moments of life that we never
	forget.
Which brighten, and brighten, as time steals
	away;
They give a new charm to the happiest lot,
And they shine on the gloom of the lone-
	liest day.”
			TELEGRAMS.
	Following are a few of the telegrams and
sentiments, the former received on the 29th
of February, the latter received some on that
day and the rest within a few days subse-
quently. There were so many of these in
the form of poems, letters and expressions
of good will that it has been found quite
impossible to use them all.
			ALICE MERRILL HORNE.
					OGDEN, UTAH.
President Emmeline B. Wells,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	I cannot refrain from extending my
congratulations and best wishes upon this
anniversary of your birth. . I sincerely hope
you may live to cheer, comfort and bless
your family and the sisters as long as life
is a pleasure to you, and that your last may
be your happiest days.
				JANE S. RICHARDS.
		OCEAN PARK, CAL., Feb. 29, 1912.
	Love and congratulations; may each suc-
ceeding birthday be happier than the last.
			CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS.
				WASHINGTON, D. C.
	Allie joins me in sending on this, your
natal day, greetings, love and best wishes.
Peace, joy and God’s blessings be yours as
long as you live.
					REED SMOOT.
			NEW YORK, Feb. 29, 1912.
	May you be spared to your friends to
continue the good work done for them and
Utah, in health and happiness.
			BERTHA G. M. BAMBERGER.
		OCEAN PARK, CAL., Feb. 29, 1912.
	Congratulations and best wishes on this
day of days. 
				ELIZABETH S. WILCOX.
		(Continued on page 54.)


EMMELINE B. WELLS, LIT. D.
		(Continued from page 51.)
			SENTIMENTS.
	The following were sent for the Birthday
number of the Exponent:
	Oriental birthday greetings.
	There are three crowns, of the Law, the
Priesthood and the Kingship; but the
crown of a good name is greater than them
all.
	LYDIA M. VON F. MOUNTFORD.
	A Chinese proverb says, “A big heart is
better than a big house.”
	My mother’s home was not large enough
to take in all the world, except through the
sympathy of her big heart.
	Everything for the uplift of humanity
has, ever and always, claimed her ardent
sympathy and capable, skillful co-operation.
	To raise the lowly, cheer the downheart-
led, give freely of her substance to the poor,
comfort the bereaved, has been to her
through life a work of love.
	Such works are “quick and mighty,” good
fruits have and shall follow such sowing,
for the LAW of LOVE reigns King of all.
				MELL. C. WOODS.
	Wallace, Idaho, March 8, 1912.
	Over many difficulties triumphant; amid
the checquered scenes of life showing true
fortitude; possessed of the great charac-
teristic principle that brought Abraham
blessings, Faithfulness; above all, an un-
ceasing believer and worker in the Church.
Such is “Aunt Em” Wells.
		MARGARET A. ROMNEY,
	Pres Relief Society, Ensign Stake
 
	May every year be bright and clear,
	And free from clouds of sorrow.
				PAULINE PACE,
	Prest. Relief Society, Carbon Stake.
	A sentiment accompanying a beautiful
handbag:
Sister Emmeline B. Wells.
	Knowing of your interest in our silk
ndustry, we made you this home-grown,
home-made silk hand-bag, thinking you
would better appreciate, and we could bet-
ter express by the work of our hands, the
deep love of our hearts for you.
		SARAH P. STOHL, President.
	The officers of the North Sanpete Stake
unite in sending greetings of love for our
honored and worthy President Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, who has for these many years
served so faithfully in the cause of love
and charity.
	WILHELMINA H. ERICKSEN, Prest.
	President Emmeline B. Wells, a woman
blessed with high intellectual and executive
ability. A President well fitted to preside.
A kindly mentor who carries conviction,
with advice and admonition.
		CELESTIA YOUNG PACK,
			Prest. Summit Stake R. S.
	May you live long to bless the sisters
that look to you as their beacon light.
		CHRISTENA SORENSEN,
	President R. S., Sevier Stake.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 29, 1912.
	DEAR SISTER: May your life of activity
and noble deeds ever be kept in sweet re-


[Column 1]
membrance and praise by all good people
in future ages.
	PRESIDENCY OF LIBERTY STAKE.
	May the Lord bless you with health and
strength, and with His Holy Spirit to com-
fort and sustain you, that you may be able
to perform the arduous duties of your high
calling, is the sincere wish of
		Your loving Sister,
			MARIA R. HYDE,
				President of Pocatello Stake.
“The Lord bless thee and keep thee,
The Lord make His face shine upon thee,
And be gracious unto thee.”
				—Numbers vi, 24, 25.
	God bless you! so I’ve wished you all
	Of brightness life possesses;
	For can there any joy at all
	Be thine, unless God blesses?
	MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON,
				President Davis Stake.
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
					March 3rd, 1912.
“Aunt Em” is a woman!—And to be
A woman meaneth flower, star, queen—
And more, much more besides.
				MAUD MAY BABCOCK.
	Not often are we privileged to congratu-
late a friend who has at the age of 84 only
seen 21 birthdays. But how swiftly the
years have flown with their changes of glad-
ness and sorrow, burdens and happiness,
care and tranquilities! But on looking
back, may you only see the hilltops of joy,
forgetting the vales of trouble and dis-
quietude.
		OFFICERS OF JUAB STAKE R. S.
	OUR DEAR SISTER WELLS: Among the
many emblems of love and esteem that will
reach you, on this your natal day, we wish
to place ours.
	We would add, too, our weak words of
appreciation of your worth, and sincerely
wish you every good thing a life so exem-
plary as yours deserves.
	In years you are past the allotted time,
and if it, indeed, be true “that how long
we live, not years but deeds tell,” you have
truly lived a long time.
	Your life has been a rich one, and the
noble deeds so characteristic of you will
remain never failing memorials of your

[Column 2]
labors among women. With a feeling of
pride we look to you as leader of our great
Relief Society organization, and trust that
for many years you will still be our beacon
light.
		ONEIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY.
		ST. JOHNS, ARIZ., Feb. 29, 1912.
	DEAR AUNT EM: In memory of the life-
long friendship which existed between your-
self and my dear grandmother, Sister Ad-
dison Pratt, and her daughters, I beg leave
to offer my love and congratulations on
this, your twenty-first birthday.
	In thinking of your long and useful life,
I am reminded of the beautiful words of
Ella Wheeler Wilcox:

“The prayerful heart breathes through the face
	Like perfume through the rose.
No art can imitate the grace
	Of spiritual repose.
The heart that talks with God in prayer
	Unconsciously imparts
Some portion of the truths learned there
	To other minds and hearts.”
				IDA HUNT UDALL.

	The Relief Society sisters of the Utah
Stake of Zion join in sending greetings to
their honored leader and companion on her
twenty-first birthday.
	Dear Sister Wells, you have built up a
character so lovely as to draw unto you
friends in every walk of life.
	Marden says, “Labor is the parent of all
the lasting monuments of this world, wheth-
er in verse or in stone, in poetry or in pyra-
mids.” By your industry you have proven
that labor conquers all things.
	By your devotion to every small duty in
your pathway, you have taught us that
“trifles make perfection, but perfection is no
trifle,” as Michael Angelo says. Your life
thus far is fraught with good deeds, actu-
ated by a noble purpose.
	Having reached your twenty-first anni-
versary, you are only now beginning the
summer time of your life. And yet it would
seem that all of your spring time had been
a summer day, so strong and radiant your
every act.
	Some one has said, “A merry heart is a
continual feast to others besides itself,” and
such you have been to us.
	Through the coming years you need have
no regrets, for you have scattered your
flowers as you went and their beauty and
fragrance will live in the hearts of the mul-
titudes that love you.
	In short, we may say with Longfellow,
“A smile of God thou art.”
	Last, but not least, you have shown that
faith in God and obedience to His author-
ized servants is the noblest aim in life.
	PRESIDENCY of UTAH STAKE R. S.

		BIOGRAPHICAL.
		(Printed by Request.)
	Emmeline B. Wells was born Feb. 29,
1828, at Petersham, Worcester county,
Mass., and her forefathers were numbered
among the Puritans who came from Eng-
land in 1620. Her grandfather fought in
the Revolution and her father in the war
of 1812.
	Mrs. Wells at the age of 13 joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and three years later went with her parents
to Nauvoo, where she became the wife of
the presiding bishop of the Church, Newel
K. Whitney. At the exodus of the people
from Nauvoo she made the long journey
across the plains with others who took

[Column 3]
that famous pilgrimage, and upon arriving
in Salt Lake valley took up with others the
hardships, work and privations suffered
by the Utah pioneers. Bishop Whitney
died in 1850, and two years later she be-
came the wife of Daniel H. Wells, one of
the most prominent among the pioneer lead-
ers.
	Mrs. Wells’s mind, even as a girl, had
always run to literary expression, and in
1874 she became associated with Mrs. Lulu
Greene Richards in the editorship of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, the first woman’s
journal to be published in the west. Later
Mrs. Richards resigned, and Mrs. Wells
became sole editor, a position which she has
held ever since. Her office has seen many
noted guests, and she has been one of the
most energetic and hospitable among the en-
tertainers of strangers within Utah’s gates.
She has corresponded with many famous
people, among them John G. Whittier, the
Duchess of Sutherland and many other peo-
ple of title and fame, many of whom have
been her warm friends. Amid her many
activities she has found time to publish two
or three volumes, a book of her own poems,
“Musings and Memories,” “Songs and
Hymns of the Wasatch,” “Charities and
Philanthropies,” and a pamphlet history of
the Relief Society.
	She has been among the most active of
the workers for woman’s suffrage, the Ex-
ponent at all times advocating its cause.
No question of public importance to the
women of Utah has ever been mooted that
Mrs. Wells has not been a noted worker in 
its cause. She was the first woman selected
to go to Washington in the interests of
Utah women, and since, she has been chosen
representative at a number of the big nation-
al women’s meetings at Washington and
elsewhere. She was a speaker at the great
quinquennial congress of women at London
in 1899, and at every public meeting of im-
portance she has attended she has been
among the honored ones present. At home
she has been somewhat active in politics, for
years having served as vice chairman of
the Republican state committee, and a mem-
ber of the constitutional committee of 1882.
	Her arduous public career, and her home
life have never interfered with her religious
duties, as she has been actively interested
in the women’s auxiliary organizations, no 
tably the great Relief Society, which she
has served in various official capacities. At
the death of Mrs. Bathsheba Smith recently,
she was chosen president of that organiza-
tion, a position which she still holds.
	She has also been active in patriotic and
literary circles, having been one of the foun-
ders and also first regent of the Daughters
of the Revolution; founder of the Utah
Woman’s Press Club and of the Reapers’
Literary society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	MARCH, 1912


EXPLANATORY.
	It is perhaps unnecessary to state that for
all the contents of this number of the EX-
PONENT the editor herself is not responsi-
ble. The fact will be self-evident; but a
word of explanation may be in order. After
an editorship covering nearly forty years,
during which she has published biograph-
ies, tributes, reminiscences and poems con-
cerning nearly all the leading women of
the Church, her friends thought it time the
EXPONENT should say a few things about
"Aunt Em" herself. Sister Alice Merrill
Horne of the General Board of the Relief
Society was particular in voicing this sug-
gestion, and in insisting that the March
number of the paper be given largely to a
recital of the exercises and greetings of
the editor's birthday anniversary; in other
words, that this issue should be the "Birth-
day number." In a moment of complais-
ance consent was given, and hence the pres-
ent number, which has been prepared in ac-
cordance with what is felt to be the desire
and request of many friends.—A. W. C.


[Column 1]
TODAY—WHAT OF TOMORROW?
	This wonderful age is in every sense
of the word one of intense progressive ac-
tivity in directions never dreamed of in the
past. Some of the discoveries in science
and some of the present lines of thought
would have been deemed wholly fantastic
and impossible by our ancestors. The la-
bor-saving age is surely here, as evidenced
in the marvels of ingenuity in all the
various fields of labor, as well in the ma-
chinery itself as in the products that can
be brought into use in all directions. Wom-
en, too, are reaching out into work that
will add to the sum of human development
and are doing their part in illustrating that
the world has reached a stage of advance-
ment in all directions that has been un-
equaled by any known century of past his-
tory.
	Of course we still point with great pride
to the Pyramids and many other extraor-
dinary achievements of those ancient days;
we speak with admiration of the rare spec-
mens of exquisite art and literature which
have come down to us and we hold in
something of reverence those who have left
these rich legacies illustrating the stupen-
dous and the beautiful to those who should

[Column 2]
come after them. But nevertheless the
people of today believe that the advance-
ment in civilization, which embraces about
everything, is higher than ever before, and
are justified in thinking so from all obser-
vation and from all historical data obtain-
able.
	Take, for example, the great improve-
ment in modes of traveling. Herein is not
only an additional proof of higher thought
and progress, but it affords easier and
more complete facilities of examining all
that has heretofore existed and comparing
it with the works of today. What further
results may yet be reached in the rapidity
and comfort of transportation is not to
be at this time conceived, for who can
magine or foresee? Who would have be-
lieved, a hundred years ago, the actual tri-
umphs every day seen by us who live in
the present age! Almost the only forecast
or fantasy had in those days was “Mother
Shipton’s prophecy,” which was a frequent
byword, more laughed at than credited.
And yet we have come to see many stranger
and more remarkable things than even she
dreamed of.
	We who have lived a long time have seen
scores of marvelous changes in these United
States. Formerly there were no railroads,
and people adopted as the cheapest, easiest
and quickest mode of travel the waterways
of the country. They traversed these in
old-fashioned wind-driven ships and
schooners and sloops. Then came steam,
and soon thereafter the railroads were built;
improvements being made on every new in-
vention until the progress became bewilder-
ing in its rapidity. Our cooking was done
over an open fire place; if the fire went out,
there were no matches, and one must run to
the neighbor’s for coals, or strike fire with
steel and flint. Illustrations might be mul-
tiplied without number, if this would not
be tedious. Yet even then people were
happy, perhaps in greater proportion on the
average, than they are today; for happi-
ness, after all, does not consist in worldly
wealth. However, most of us vastly prefer
the improvements and all the advantages
of modern life.
	Certainly the world’s advancement in all
directions of progress and development has
been miraculous and now the question
arises, after attaining such heights, what
more is there to acquire in the material
world?
	In the development of the race or races
of mankind there is a wider field for pres-
ent-day endeavor than anywhere else. In
this direction the people have come far
short of attaining perfection. True, there
are not so many barbarians, at least not
so many left alive, as once inhabited the
earth, nor can it be disputed that in mod-
ern times there are people that have ar-
rived at a very high state of excellence of
mind and body and heart. It is a sad fact,
however, that these are the exception and
not the rule. When we consider the con-
dition of the masses, and reflect upon the
great enlightenment of this century, truth
demands the admission that at the best we
are not nearly so much improved as human
beings as we ought to be. This subject,
therefore, the betterment of the race, vast
and delicate as it is, offers an inviting field
for the best efforts of pen, and thought,
and activity.
	Sociology in its largest and best sense

[Column 3]
gives us an idea of what is needed, but
does not always tell how to correct exist-
ing conditions. There is, however, a “high-
er intelligence” to which the Latter-day
Saints have access, which can show us the
better and surer way by which we may
eventually arrive at some permanently re-
forming influences that will help redeem
mankind. After all, one of the greatest
needs is that of looking inward as well as
outward. Let us study ourselves and see
wherein we come short where we should
excel. While we look outward for great
things in this beautiful world of ours, we
should also look inward, into our own
hearts and find out how to correct our own
errors and shortcomings, and to exercise
that true charity which is the crowning vir-
tue of human life in its association with hu-
manity. We should strive to be mindful of
those around us in those particular walks
of life where our own lot is cast. It is
far better to live a life of purity and up-
rightness even in obscurity and to seek for
wisdom to conquer our own faults and van-
ties, than to shine resplendent in the eyes
of the world at large because of some
great victory or achievement. Without the
humility and charity that creates happiness
within our own souls we shall be poor in-
deed; possessing these virtues, we are rich
and great. Holding these uppermost and
firmly, it is not only legitimate but praise-
worthy to strive for proficiency along any
good line of work that will make the world
better and life more desirable.
	Coming back to the thought with which
we began: the advancement in human prog-
ress makes this age in which we are living
undoubtedly a great one, and the growth of
attainment along progressive lines is indeed
little less than marvelous. But we must
not boast prematurely. While the race has
overcome much, there is much still to be
done. There are still great and numerous
high standards of excellence to be attained.
We know that God is at the helm, and He
will rule and overrule and direct as seem-
eth to Him good. There is encouragement
and hope for those who have faith in Him
and are seeking the advancement of His
cause. To these, all things will be made
plain in His own due time. Greater light and
knowledge will be revealed from time to
time for the benefit of those who are pre-
pared to receive His divine messages, great-
er than has ever been manifest heretofore.
Therefore as the present age surpasses
those of the past, so will the future far ex-
ceed in that which pertains to human hap-
piness and perfection the conditions which
we are prone to dwell upon with such sat-
isfaction and pride today.


IN MEMORIAM.
EMMA SMITH WOODRUFF.
	One more of the valiant and faithful
workers among the women of Zion has left
us, passed on to the higher, better life.
Again we are called to mourn. One of the
noble leaders in the Relief Society has laid
down the burden of earthly care and joined
those loved and gone before in the man-
sions of our heavenly Father.
	On the early morning of March 3rd, Sis-
ter Emma S. Woodruff bade farewell to
her loved ones, who, sorrowing, had gath-
ered at her side, and sweetly as a child


[Column 1]
fell into that last long sleep. A spirit of
peace and rest pervaded now that silent
chamber, where for long weeks before had
been pain and suffering and struggle to re-
sist the hand of fate which at last became
master and claimed its victim. All that
untiring, loving hearts could do or think
of to keep her yet a little while was done,
but medicine, tender nursing, faith and
prayers availed not, and at last, when, the
weary body yielded to the call, the loved
ones bowed in humble recognition that
God knew the best, and peace came into
their hearts.
	Sister Woodruff has been a prominent
figure among the women of Zion all her
life. She was born March 1, 1838, at Adam-
Ondi-Ahman, Daviess county, Missouri,
which is sacredly held by the Latter-day
Saints as a future gathering place. Like
other pioneer women she endured the
hardships and toil of the early days in this
western land, but being young and strong
she was also able to enjoy life to the ut-
most, and in the social gatherings of the
young people she was a happy participant.
She became, when quite young, the wife of
Wilford Woodruff, who was then a mem-
ber of the quorum of Apostles; and though
he spent much of his time away on missions, 
the family of such men are always held in
high regard and love by their people. Later,
when her husband became president of
the Church, Sister Woodruff traveled with
him quite extensively and was his constant
and devoted attendant throughout the re-
mainder of his long and wonderful life.
She had a large family and was a most af-
fectionate and tender mother. She fondly
shielded and cared for her loved ones and
was never quite able to reconcile herself
to great sorrow though she was a woman
of deep faith.
	Sister Woodruff took an active part in
woman’s organizations and public duties,
notwithstanding her home ties and responsi-
bilities. She was for many years the pres-
ident of the Relief Society of Farmers
ward, and when the General Relief Society
was incorporated she was one of the orig-
inal directors. As a member of the General
Board she was an untiring, zealous worker,
regular in attending committee meetings,
visiting Relief Society conferences in the
various stakes of Zion from Canada to
Mexico, and meeting in council with her sis-
ters on all matters pertaining to the welfare
of that organization. When the Granite
Stake was organized, Sister Woodruff was
appointed stake president of the Relief So-
ciety, a position requiring in itself a great
amount of work; and that stake has without
question a banner society in the organiza-
tion.
	At the opening of the Salt Lake Temple
in 1893, Sister Woodruff was called to of-
ficiate in that holy house. She was assist-
ant both to Aunt Zina Young and Aunt
Bathsheba Smith when they presided there.
Her good works are many and will live
after her in the memory of her people.
	For some time before her last illness
Sister Woodruff seemed to have a pre-
monition of her death, and sometimes made
remarks that her dear ones pondered over.
She was weary and tired, and no doubt
longed to join those of her loved ones who
had gone before.
	Heartfelt tributes were paid her at the
funeral services, glorious music was ren-

[Column 2]
dered and a wealth of floral offerings, fra-
grant evidences of affection from friends,
was everywhere. And thus, covered with
nature’s sweetest and most beautiful flow-
ers, and mourned by hundreds of loved
ones, was another mother in Israel laid to
rest on the hillside.
A. W. C.
MEMORIAL SERVICES.
	Memorial services for Sister Emma
Smith Woodruff, late president of the Gran-
ite Stake Relief Society were held at the
Granite Stake Tabernacle Monday, March
18, 1912, commencing at 1 p.m., Counselor
Leonora T. Harrington presiding and con-
ducting the exercises.
	Opened by singing “My mountain home
so dear.”
	Prayer, Sister Harriet J. Miller
	Singing “Zion prospers, all is well.”
	Sister Elizabeth C. Taylor read the fol-
lowing resolutions of respect:
	Whereas, In His wisdom and infinite
goodness the Lord has called to her eternal
home our beloved sister and friend Emma
Smith Woodruff. In the loss of our sister
we the members of the Granite Stake Re-
lief Society realize that there has gone to
her reward a pioneer of this state, a no-
ble woman, and a mother in Israel. Sis-
ter Woodruff was the embodiment of good-
ness. She carried with her the influence
of her divine calling in the Relief Society,
and her beautiful character has been a
source of inspiration to us all, to make us
nobler in our lives and to cause us to sense
keenly the sweetness of divine motherhood.
We, her sisters, ask God to bless her
children. May they emulate the beautiful
character of their mother, and may we never
forget her wonderful example of love for
her fellowmen and the Lord. We pray our
Father in Heaven to bless her family that
they may realize always that God is good.
and that He is our Father and Savior.
Resolved, That these resolutions be sent
to the family of the deceased, that a copy be
recorded in the minutes of our society, and
one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
SUSAN E. BRINTON,
ELIZBETH C. TAYLOR,
Committee.
	Solo, “My Faith in Thee,” Sister Ella D.
Bishop.
	Sketch of the life of Sister Woodruff
by Sister Emily M. Brinton.
	Trio “Galilee,” Sisters Eccles, Peterson,
Priestly and choir.
	Brief eulogies were given by the follow-
ing sisters: Katherine H. Brockbank, Laura
E. Cutler, Dr. Margaret Roberts, Sarah
J. Cannon, Julia M. Farnsworth and Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells of the General
Board, who testified eloquently to the su-
perior qualities of Sister Woodruff’s charac-
ter, her humble and self-sacrificing spirit,
her kindness to the poor, her love and
fidelity to her family and friends, her faith-
fulness to the work of the Lord. She was
trusted and respected by all with whom she
labored, and her memory will go down to
posterity revered and loved.
	Duet, “Truth reflects upon our senses,”
Sisters Priestly and Green.
	Piano solo, “O My Father.” Miss Daisy
Hilton.
	Sister Laura E. Cutler in behalf of the

[Column 3]
family, thanked all who had so kindly min-
istered to their mother and filled her room
with flowers during her last illness.
	Closing hymn, “Providence is over all.”
	Benediction Patriarch James McGhie.
PRUDENCE BROWN,
Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INFLUENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	[On the 17th of March, 1912, in accord-
ance with the published suggestion of the
First Presidency, exercises were held gener-
ally throughout the Church, commemora-
tive of the seventieth anniversary of the
organization of the Relief Society. At al-
most all these exercises a history or sketch
of the society was given as one of the
features of the program. It would be obvi-
ously impossible to publish all or any con-
siderable number of these, excellent though
they are. Moreover, there is of necessity
more or less of similarity of fact, though
with much variety of language, in all such
sketches. We trust therefore no one will
be offended at our inability to make use of
the numerous communications on this sub-
ject which have been so kindly forwarded.
The thoughtfulness which prompted the
sending is fully appreciated; and we hope
our friends will understand why we are
compelled to content ourselves with the
foregoing acknowledgment of it. The fol-
lowing, which differs from most such sketch-
es in that it discusses the results and con-
sequences of the organization of the society
rather than the historical fact itself, will,
we are sure, prove interesting. It was given
in the 29th ward of Salt Lake City, Sunday
evening, March 17, 1912, by Mrs. Maria
Francis.—ED.]
	I shall confine my remarks to the influ-
ence of the spirit of the Prophet’s action in
turning the keys for women’s work, upon
the nations of the earth.
	It surely ought to be a reason for re-
joicing to the Society that they were the
first to have an organized charity in the
world. There have been many charitable
people in all ages, ready to relieve upon
emergency, but nothing like the work of the
Relief Society. Seventy years have passed
and other organizations have sprung up;
for instance the Salvation Army, formerly
called “the Christian Mission;” “the Little
Sisters of the Poor;” “the Society of Dea-
conesses;” “the Ladies’ Aid Society;” the
“Ragged Schools” in London. In 1836 a
Mr. Geo. Muller started a home for waifs
and strays in Bristol. By 1856 he had se-
cured for the work subscriptions amounting
to $422,205 and had rescued over 300 chil-
dren annually. In 1875 over 2000 children
were lodged and educated in these homes
at Bristol alone. He also started a large
farm in Australia, where the older boys
were sent to learn farming. He died in
London in 1898 at the age of 94 years.
	Many titled ladies in England have been
moved upon to enter into charitable work,
among them Lady Somerset, Lord and
Lady Aberdeen working side by side, Queen
Victoria, and the princesses, the Duchess
of Cambridge, her daughter, the Princess
May, now Queen of England. The general
indication shows that woman is reaching to
a higher degree of freedom than was ever


[Column 1]
thought of prior to the time of the Prophet
turning the keys in favor of women. Until
this time women had been contented to
take a back seat and yield to their husbands
the lead and dominance of everthing. Very
few thought of reasoning with them, or
entering into any sort of discussion relative
to the general topics of the day. But ad-
vanced education has opened their under-
standings and made them fit to stand on
an equal footing with their husbands, and to
be indeed greater helpmates in every sense
of the word.
	This is not confined to America and Eng-
land alone—

“Not by one channel or one path alone
Does God to man His mysteries make known.”

	It is extending to all parts of the world.
	Science is teaching us that not only the
words of men but their thoughts even
are transmitted and conveyed by some un-
known power; that when any great move-
ment is being made for the betterment of
mankind the same thoughts are in the minds
of many at the same time; thus showing
that it is the Spirit of God that is directing
all things.
	In India the thraldom of the harem is
being cast off; and the remarriage of wid-
ows, a thing unknown until late years. The
child widows in India were doomed to a
life of indignity, as “accursed of God,” until
the light of civilization and freedom for
women was received by them. Now these
child widows are being educated and many
are embracing Christianity. Others are
taught the cruelty of their faith and are
gradually abandoning it. Many of the so-
called native “queens of India” are educated
women and if not embracing Christianity 
are becoming civilized and thoughtful wom-
en. It is hard to throw off the teachings
of childhood at once, but time will have its
effect on them.
	In China again the women are refusing
to have their feet bound, and education is
making great strides amongst them.
	In Japan the advancement is perfectly
wonderful. It is only about 45 years since
Japan showed any desire for advancement.
	I was in Calcutta when the Japanese
government purchased their first ships for
copies to build their merchant vessels by,
the Thunder and Lightning, belonging to
Jardine, Skinner and Co. of Calcutta; and
I remember the stir it made in India at the
time. Since then their advancement has
been phenomenal.
	In our own country what opportunities
for education are open, in connection with
the various auxiliaries of the Church, in-
structing its women to meet the advanced
requirements! Salt Lake City will not long
be able to contain its increasing population,
and the instruction our young mothers and
girls are receiving will in turn be taught
to their children and prepare them to meet
the contingencies of a new life in a greater
world. Never lose an opportunity that you
can embrace of learning. Salt Lake has
splendid opportunities and the eyes of all
the States are upon us. Therefore, let us
make ourselves equal to the occasions that
will meet us. I know it is hard for some of
us to attend the meetings, but we shall in
the future be well repaid for the sacrifice.
“Knowledge is power,” no matter what the
subject may be.
	I have omitted to mention that angel

[Column 2]
woman Florence Nightingale, who was
moved upon to go out with a staff of nurses
to the Crimean war. It is enough to bring
tears to the eyes of strong men, when they
hear that as she passed through the wards
the suffering men whom she thought to be
sleeping turned painfully on their pillows
to kiss her shadow, so much did they revere
her.
	Truly could they say of women:
	“When pain and sickness rack the brow
	A ministering angel thou.”
	Men have sung and written of their
appreciation of women’s work in thousands
of ways. One says: “Women are the cog
wheels that turn the machinery of good
works;” another: “It is the mothers by
their anxious care and loving kindness have
made the best of men what they are;” an-
other says:
		“You talk about a woman’s sphere
			As if it had a limit;
		There’s not a thing in earth or heaven, 
		There’s not a good to mankind given,
		There’s not a weal, there’s not a woe.
		There’s not a whispered Yes or No,
		There’s not a birth, there’s not a death,
		There’s not a feather’s weight of worth
			on earth 
		Without a woman in it.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. SARAH K. BRIDGE HONORED.
	One of the most enjoyable events of the
month occurred at the Eleventh Ward
Amusement Hall on March 8th when one
hundred and twenty-five members and
guests of the Relief Society assembled to
do honor to their president on the occasion
of her fiftieth birthday anniversary.
	The affair took the form of a surprise
party, and Sister Bridge was visibly affected
when she was led into the brilliantly lighted
hall, where the tables were spread with
viands fit for a queen, and decorated with
clusters of carnations, and potted plants.
Among the guests were the ward Bishopric
and the stake Relief Society officers, Sisters
Margaret A. Romney, Minnie Horne James,
Sarah E. Langford, Cecil Sharp Barker
and Belle Hawkins. In behalf of the soci-
ety Bro. Arthur Brown bade the guests
welcome to the feast and eulogised the
labors of Brother and Sister Bridge. Grace
was said by Sister Margaret Romney. While
the banquet was being served, the following
program was rendered: Recitation, Sister
Barker; solo, Mrs. Jos. Wirthlin; song,
Beatrice Sherwood.
	After the dinner Sister Lewis in a neat
little speech presented the guest of honor
with a beautiful umbrella, which Sister
Bridge accepted in a very graceful little
talk.
	Sister Amanda Done gave a reading and
Sister Lillie T. Freeze read an original
poem, dedicated to Sister Bridge, and en-
titled “Fifty Links.”


The medal—the “first gold decoration of
learning”—the highest in its order, has re-
cently been conferred upon Madam Ali
Kuli Khan, wife of the charge d’affaires of
the Persian legation in Washington by the
Shah of Persia. She is one of the few
women in the world so honored.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOTHER O’ER ISRAEL.
To Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Feb. 24, 1912. 
Mother o’er Israel, Handmaid of God,
Saints arise, call thee blessed where’er thou
	hast trod.
Thy voice like a clarion for truth has pro-
	claimed,
Since e’er thou hast spoken. Our youth are
	inflamed
By thy noble deeds to strive for the like,
And, like thee, for Christ and His kingdom to
	strike.
Thou knewest the dawn of this, God’s last,
	time;
Hast prayed, borne and taught with a cour-
	age divine.
Father of ours, in the heavens above,
Keep thou her, our mother, enshrined in Thy
	love.
Her presence on earth a halo has been;
Where she lives or breathes, even thinks, is
	no sin.
Her brow is now crowned with the snow of
	four score;
Thy Saints would yet hold her long years, ever-
	more.
When Thou callest her Thou wilt say, “Well
	done;
A place in my love, like in theirs, thou hast
	won.”
					Edward P. Kimball.


THE BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	Long ago, in the early sixties, the broad
streets of Salt Lake were shaded on either
side with the sweet-scented black locust
tree, and sparkling streams of water separ-
ated the side walks from the streets used
for traffic. Then there were no noisy street-
cars rushing past, no buzzing of electric
wires, no chunk-chunk of autos even in
one’s fancy, but all the air was full of the
songs of birds, the hum of bees and the
sweet intercourse of village life and the
whole community dwelt like one vast family.


[Column 1]
	The houses were mostly rude construc-
tions of native timber with dirt roofs or
plain gray adobe placed in a large lot
adorned with young fruit trees and sur-
rounded by a rough pole fence or wall of
cobble stones and plaster. 'Twas then among
these rude surroundings of pioneer life that
President Brigham Young had built for the
comfort of his family those two historic
and classic homes The Lion House and The
Bee Hive House. Within their walls was
reared a family leading an ideal commu-
nistic life; and as the fair and beautiful
sons and daughters of that great sire grew
to manhood and womanhood the sounds
of mirth and laughter, of rare music and
fervent prayer, vibrated through the rooms
and halls, creating an artistic and sacred
atmosphere that has clung to the walls like
the tendrils of green ivy or the perfume of
roses.
	Not only were these homes the dwelling
places of this great family but a social
gathering place for all their friends, and
a home to which strangers to the city
sought the entree. President Young in
his proud dignity received from time to
time many distinguished men and women
here, some who came from curiosity, some
filled with prejudice, but all leaving with
a sense that they had been in the presence
of a great man whose magnetic power had
drawn from them the best that was in them.
	As the years have past, from time to time
these homes have been the scene of splen-
did entertainments and stand to-day monu-
ments of a wise and great leader, still beau-
tiful, classical and useful. How fitting that
these houses should eventually by purchase
become the property of the Church of which
President Young was leader; and one of
them (The Bee Hive House) be retained
as the official residence of the President
of that Church! Here President Lorenzo
Snow dwelt, and again was repeated for
a short time the series of fine entertain-
ments not only to his own people but the
"stranger within the gates." Now as the
official residence of President Joseph F.
Smith, history again repeats itself.
	There is about the dear old house an air
of comfort and sweet content. One does
not hesitate at the portal fearful of form
and propriety, but, assured of a home-like
greeting and a pleasant welcome, enters
the rooms and partakes of the spirit that
pervades there: a home where dwells not
only a great leader but a comely and hospi-
table lady whose greatest pleasure it is to
give pleasure to others; a woman of rare
gifts of mind and heart whose time is given
in unselfish service and whose life is
filled with kindly deeds.
	The hospitality of this home under the
guidance of President Smith and his "gude-
wife" Aunt Julina is unbounded. Many
enjoyable parties are given there and per-
haps never one more so than on a recent
occasion when Sister Julina L. Smith gave
a dinner party in honor of the president
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells on her attaining the great age of
eight-four years.
	The guests numbered about twenty-five,
including the First Presidency of the
Church, the members of the General Board
of Relief Society and Mrs. Wells' daughters.
The table was a picture long to be remem-
bered; beautifully appointed, with fine lin-
en, cut glass and dainty china, decorated
with pink and white carnations and

[Column 2]
Chetney roses. The dinner was delecta-
ble in every particular and all the fine work
of the well-trained and beautiful daughters
of the household. Mrs. Julia P. M. Farns-
worth acted as toastmistress and in well
chosen words introduced each of the guests
present, all of whom responded, paying a
tribute of love and admiration to the guest
of honor, Mrs. Wells. The ladies were much
honored to have with them President Smith,
President Lund and President Penrose, and
will long remember their beautiful and in-
structive remarks. Altogether it was an
occasion which in every detail was most
pleasant and delightful.
ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARY.
	LYDIA CATHERINE MAN ADAMS.
	Lydia Catherine Man Adams, an honored
pioneer of Teasdale, Wayne Co., died Jan.
17th, 1912 of dropsy and pneumonia, at
Torrey, at the home of her daughter Mrs.
Elizabeth Covington, at the ripe age of 81
years, 11 months and 23 days. She was
stricken with dropsy 5 weeks before her de-
mise, and although medical aid was secured
and loving hands did all in their power to
relieve her sufferings, yet it was decreed
otherwise, for the noble spirit had faithfully
performed life’s mission, and was ready to
lay down life’s burdens, with the glorious
assurance of coming forth in the morning
of the first resurrection, with her husband
and loved ones gone before. For days before
the end came, all of her children except one
son, Lewis Adams of Manard, Idaho, were
constantly at her bedside.
	Mrs. Adams was the daughter of George
William Man and Elizabeth Cook Man. She
was born January 25th, 1830, at Beaverley,
Canada, and married David B. Adams,
a widower with 5 small children. She was
the mother of eleven children, seven sons,
and four daughters; two sons, two daugh-
ters, her husband, and four step-children
preceding her to the other side. She has
81 grandchildren, 79 great-grandchildren,
and seven great-great-grandchildren.
	She and her husband were among the
first pioneers of Beaver and Adamsville,
(the latter place being named after them),
Cedar, Escalante, and Teasdale, enduring
the hardships and trials of the early days
of Utah uncomplainingly. They lived for
months on bran bread, and water soup in
which a few carrot tops were boiled and
thickened with bran. On such a diet she
took care of their now large family, sheared,
carded, spun, and wove the wool from the
few sheep they had, and after the children
were in bed at night she would wash, iron,
patch, and darn, so that the clothes would
be ready to put on in the morning. She
was an artist with the needle and in the
latter years of her life, she fashioned beauti-
ful designs in quilts, bedspreads, rugs, tidies,
etc., and was never so happy as when sur-
rounded by her children, grand, and great-
grandchildren and had plenty of work to
keep her busy. She was able to work and
get around until she was taken sick.
	She was an industrious, faithful Latter-
Day Saint beloved by all who knew her;
and was lovingly called Grandma Adams
by all of the neighborhood.
	She was president of the Teasdale Relief
Society for a number of years, and a faith-
ful Church worker all her life.
	At her funeral, which was held in the
Teasdale meeting house, Jan. 20th, 1912,

[Column 2]
the speakers, Elder Walter E. Hanks,
President Joseph Eckersley, Elders James
Hood, Heber J. Wilson and Walter Cole-
man all spoke of the beautiful character of
the deceased and paid a high tribute to her
sterling qualities and lovable disposition.
Those who had known her all their lives
testified they had never seen her angry or
out of patience, and that she was indeed
a modest, unassuming, lovable wife and
mother. They spoke consolingly to the rel-
atives and exhorted them to live for a hap-
py reunion in the future.
	The floral offerings were profuse and
beautiful, and the ward choir furnished ap-
propriate music. “Near the great white
Throne,” was sweetly rendered by Mrs.
Ada Shurtz and Miss Hazel Dailey. Friends
came from different parts of the county to
pay their last respects to this noble woman.

	ROSABEL B. TREAGLE WALKE.
	Died, at Union, Mar. 12, 1912, Sister
Rosabel Treagle Walke, daughter of James
Treagle and Rosena James, and the be-
loved wife of Thomas H. Walke. She was
born May 25th, 1861, in Jersey, Channel
Islands, England. The family emigrated to
New Zealand in 1874. When the Elders
opened a branch of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in Christchurch,
New Zealand, her mother and family were
baptized, but her father, a good man, still
remained a “Bible Christian,” but desired
baptism before he died. Sister Rosabel
was baptized in December 1879. She re-
ceived her blessings and was sealed to her
husband, who is eighty-four years old, in
the Endowment House, by President Daniel
H. Wells.
	She was the mother of eleven children,
seven girls and four boys; five girls and
three boys survive her, as well as her aged
husband who feels her loss very keenly;
also eight grandchildren, one brother and
four sisters
	Sister Walke was our first organist in the
Union Ward 31 years ago, as well as an
active worker in the Y. L. M. I. A, For
the last 12 years she has been a most effi-
cient secretary in our Relief Society, and 
none will feel her loss outside of her family
more than the officers of our association.
True to every trust, strict and correct in
all matters pertaining to her office and call-
ing, her record books were clean and with-
out blot, emblematical of the purity of her
life. We shall surely miss her but we feel
our loss is her gain.
	Resolved: That we extend to the bereaved
ones our sincere sympathy and pray God
that His comforting influence may be with
them and that they may feel to acknowledge
His goodness even in their sore affliction
and
	Resolved: By the sisters of the Union
Ward Relief Society that we mourn our
loss, and appreciate the purity of her life
and the worthy example she has set for us
to follow; be it further
	Resolved: That a copy of these resolu-
tions be presented to the family of the de-
ceased; be placed on the records of our
society and a copy be sent to the Exponent
for publication.
				MARY ANN SMART,
				HARRIET WILKINS,
				JENNIE BERGSTROM,
				LUCY A. BRADY, 
				SARAH BUXTON,
In behalf of the Union Ward Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

