
1(2), 2,5(2), 7,
									Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1911						No. 1.


CONTENTS.
International Suffrage Alliance...............	1
Oneida Stake...........................Secretary	2
Annual Day at Butte, Montana...............	2
Chautauqua Assembly............................	3
Notes and News......................................	3
Sketch of Elizabeth F. Yates...................	6
Dinah Stoddard Wrigley.........................	6
Notes on Nurse Class........Lula J. Smith	6
Sketch of the Life and Labors of Mary J.
	R. West............................................	6
Snowflake Stake.....................................	7
Household Hints.......................A. W. C.	7
Relief Society Reports—Liberty, Jordan	7
Because.............................................Ex.	7
Porgressive Catholics....Woman’s Journal	8
Women Lawyers...............................Ex.	8
Notes and News......................................	8
Editorial: The Fortieth Volume...............	4
	The Ways They Are Many and Wide	4
	The Fulfillment of Prophecy...........	5
Editorial Notes........................................	5
	In Memoriam..................................	5


THE PIONEERS.
Was there ever work more glorious,
	More uplifting in its theme,
Than to honor parents mem’ries—
	Those who’ve passed down life’s sad stream? 

Pioneers made glorious history,
	Paved the way for fruits and flowers,
We now share this bounteous harvest,
	Debts of gratitude are ours.

How we love to hear their stories,
Tho‘ of’t-told with biting pain,
Yet their lives were truly woven
	“Joys and sorrows”—their refrain.

First a light thread—then a darker,
	In life’s cloth of black and gold,
Woven here with plainest marker,
	Grey hair, deep lines—plainly told.

Lovely face, its sweetness showing,
	Care and hardship could not blight
That sweet spirit—always knowing,
	God and Truth were there in sight.

When the way seemed dark and dreary,
	Trembling under loads they bore,
When their hearts grew faint and weary,
	Still was faith and hope in store.

Many times the tears were ready
	To descend like copious rain,
Yet the cry “Be brave—be steady!”
	Turned their gloom to mild disdain.

Thus, at length, their journey ended,
	This great Valley they had reached,
“Here we stay—“the cry thus blended
	With their prayers—their God beseeched.

That a place of peace and safety,
	Might be granted them at last,
Where the Lord could aid them greatly,
	Their religion to make fast.

Efforts great—such self-denial!
	Their reward—the victor’s crown! 
They endured all kinds of trial,
	Stepping Stones to great renown.

Thus, we prosper, through their efforts,
	And our children share like wise,
Loyal, active, great in comforts,
	Laud their mem’ries to the skies!

Sing their praises, do not smother,
	Sacred strains that dwell within,
Honor father, honor mother,
	Pioneer heroes all akin.
					—V. Clayton McCune.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL SUFFRAGE ALLI-
			ANCE.
	At the International Suffrage Alliance
held recently in Stockholm, twenty-six
countries were represented by delegations,
two of these countries being admitted to the
Alliance during the Congress.
	Stockholm is one of the most beautiful
cities in the world, and is said to be a com-
bination of Edinburgh and Venice trans-
figured by the national genius of Sweden.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, a woman
known here in America and abroad as one of
the very best women speakers, presided at
this great Congress of the women of the
world.
	The elaborate decorations in the national
colors, blue and yellow were very effective, 
and when worn by pretty girls, who were
pages going continually through the audi-
ence with notes, etc., were like moving pic-
tures in the scene of color.
	The first striking feature was the presen-
tation of the gavel of the convention, sent
by the newly enfranchised state of Wash-
ington and presented by Miss Janet Rich-
ards of Washington, D. C. in a very telling
speech. Mrs. Catt, however, used the heavy
gavel given her at the farewell luncheon in
New York by the Woman Suffrage Party,
for really this large Congress of women
from all nationalities needed much use of
the chairman’s gavel to keep them in order.
	One of the most dramatic moments of
the Congress was the presentation of the
International banner and flag by Anna Kle-
man, President of the Stockholm W. S. A.
the banner was the gift of a pioneer suffra-
gist, Froken Latten Van Kramer. The
banner itself was superb, white and gold,
and planted on the stage by three students
in white, wearing the national colors over
their shoulders; the woman’s choir rose and
standing behind the banner sang Alfren’s
setting of Ossian-Nilsson’s suffrage song.
The audience rose as the dramatic music be-
gan, and the banners of the different na-
tions were raised and lowered where they
hung round the gallery.
	The President herself, Mrs. Catt, pre-
sents a striking appearance upon the plat-
form, and her entrance was saluted with
waving flags and ringing applause, and the
audience refused to be seated until repeated-
ly reminded by the gavel; and the homage
paid Mrs. Catt throughout the Congress
was very helpful in relieving her of the em-
barrassment of the strain of the situation.
	Mrs. Catt makes a most magnificent ap-
pearance on the platform.
	The opening address by the International
President was something of an epic review
of the progress of the movement for suf-
frage all over the world, since the last Con-
gress. Mrs. Catt is brilliant and original,
and has a humorous style that pleases the
masses, and her speech was full of thrilling
incidents that awaken, the most placid na-
tures. The effect of her style is beyond de-
scription, one must see and hear her to ap-
preciate the force and strength of her con-
vincing eloquence.

[Column 2]
	At a public meeting in the Royal Opera,
Tuesday night, June 13, 1911, the speakers
of Finland, Germany, Sweden, Great Brit-
ain, Hungary and the United States fol-
lowed one another; it was wonderful. Noth-
ing like it has ever been heard before. Miss
Furnhjium was first, and spoke with dig-
nity, vigor arid authority. Dr. Augspurg
typically German with a rich humanity, arid
deal fervor mingling with it a kind of folk-
lore humor.
	Selma Lagerlof spoke so feelingly that
the Swedish women and then the men began
to weep, it was very affecting. Mrs. Snow-
den was at her best in this meeting, she
spoke with great magnetic power, she is very
incisive, and launches her words at her audi-
ence.
	Miss Rosika Schuimmer of Hungary is
dark, fine and electric and is a sort of pan-
tominist. Miss Shaw was last on the pro-
gram and received an ovation at the close.
	Mrs. Catt dismissed the meeting in a most
inimitable, graceful style, and said that of all
the speakers at the Congress there was but
one that made her need her handkerchief,
and that was Miss Tomova of Bohemia;
it was not what she said but the intense feel-
ing in a human voice, and the splendor of 
what she expressed like unto music that was
indescribably affecting.
	The most enlivening feature of the meet-
ing was the announcement by Colonel Mans-
field of Holland that the suggestion of the
International President that the delegates of
the different Men’s Leagues might put in
good time by forming a Men’s League in
Sweden had been carried into effect and
that furthermore an International Men’s
League had also been formed consisting of
America, England, Germany, Hungary,
Sweden and Holland. Shouts of “Bravo”
and prolonged applause greeted this an-
nouncement, and it was some time before the
business could be resumed.
	The matter of dress necessarily comes in
when women assemble from many countries,
and this Congress was no exception. It is
stated “the Swedish were most imposing in
garments of anybody in the Congress.” “Not
Paris itself surpasses Stockholm in the fash-
onable appearance of its women.”
	“One timid looking little dame from East-
ern Europe appeared the first day in a har-
em skirt, showing green lace stockings and
white slippers. The length of the perspec-
tive was greater than the delegates ap-
proved, and thereafter, “she wore peniten-
tial and shapeless black.”
	English women wore tailor-made suits.
The South Africans wore business-like suits.
The Australians halted between home or
office. The Hungarians wore what a New
York woman described as “bed-gowns.”
	The French women wore black and white,
so did the Russians. Germans were rich in 
taste, all except Miss Schermacher, who
wore a shirt-waist. Dr. Augspurg wore a
plum colored satin, trimmed with fringe,
made loose.
	The majority struggled to conform to
the hobble skirts as far as they could recon-


[Column 1]
cile it with their consciences, and that was
not too far. Some wore jewelry and crimped
their hair, but there was not much frivolity.
	At dress occasions, the suffragists made
a grand showing; and one woman won-
dered, “what the sainted souls of the
Bloomer period would have thought of their
degenerate daughters in reception gowns.”
However, taken as a whole, those groups
of women from all nations showed a high
general type in dress and manner.
	The most of the Congress seems to have
been very satisfactory, weather was fine, and
meetings successful and brilliant dinners.
	The Swedish custom of starting the
speeches after the first course, and sprink-
ling them between courses is a very excel-
lent one to follow, giving more time to en-
tertainment afterwards.
	Saturday evening, June 17, 1911, the dele-
gates were entertained by the Swedish W.
S. A. at Saltsjohaden, a summer resort near
Stockholm, very delightfully situated on the
Baltic sea. The party took a ferry and train
to reach the restaurant, and returned on a
large boat with a searchlight thrown on
the surrounding beautiful scenery.
	After dinner at the restaurant the guests
went into the garden and the Vice Presi-
dent spoke concerning Mrs. Catt praising
her methods and so on, others followed in
the same way, Mr. Ernest Beckman, M. P.
(whose wife is an American and who enter-
tained the delegates at supper in their
charming home	*	*	on Sunday, June
11, 1911). Mme. Brunschwiez of France
and Fran Linderman of Germany, all these
were profuse in their eulogies of Mrs. Catt.
	Miss Janet Richards of Washington D. C.
paid a pretty tribute to the Swedish flag,
likening it to the blue of the skies and the
golden sunshine, (blue and yellow), which
greeted the delegates so warmly.
	On Wednesday, June 4th, 1911, the
American minister and his wife, Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Graves, gave a luncheon to
the American delegates, fraternal delegates
and alternates, and invited the members of
the recently formed American Woman’s
Club in Stockholm to meet them after the
luncheon. There were many social func-
tions, and enjoyable music, dancing, peas-
ant dances, songs and speeches, almost in-
numerable.
	The delegates were invited to a beautiful
villa to see Mr. Thier’s collection of pictures,
and in the evening to a park Skansen where
there were out-door speeches from natural
platforms (huge rocks), and dances by
Swedish peasants in costume.
	Invitations to dinners and evening parties,
boat-riding and pleasure excursions were
numerous, and in variety are more enter-
taining to Americans than scenes and places
in one’s own land. Many of the incidents
connected with this International Alliance
Congress are deeply interesting, and some
even pathetic; for instance, one writer says,
“It is a strange sensation to sit on a box
overlooking a huge audience, sitting silent
as the dead, while one sad voice speaks out
into the silence words absolutely without
meaning to you; then to see all over that
audience people moved to tears! Truly it
was as though we watched a miracle, re-
specting, uncomprehending, wondering.
	Dr. Augspurg, the German President and
leader, is spoken of by one of the writers
who took notes of the Congress: 
	“She is sturdy of figure, strong of fea-

[Column 2]
ture, with close-cropped curling hair and
loose hanging robes of black or white.
She always appears like some monk of old,
austere, commanding, far-visioned. One can
picture her thundering words of wrath, ex-
horting to reform, and picturing dreams and
visions.”
	Rev. Anna Shaw, the same writer says,
spoke with wit compelling cleverness and
moving eloquence, and spoke magnificently
of the wonderful binding together of the
world’s womanhood in this International
Alliance, saying she considered it a greater
force for world’s peace than the finest of
International Hague Conferences ever held.
	It is almost impossible to select from the
material the Woman’s Journal contains what
will be the very best to give to our home
readers.
	Altogether the International Alliance
Congress seems to have taken that wonder-
ful city of Stockholm, if not the kingdom
of Sweden by storm.
	In the report of discussions in the meet-
ings of the International Alliance Congress,
we note many excellent points have been
brought out that will be helpful to all wom-
en who are working for the advancement
and uplifting of humanity, therefore we
hope the entire proceedings will be published
in book form for future use and specific
education along this line of woman’s en-
franchisement.—Extracts.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ONEIDA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Annual Conference of
the Oneida Stake was held at Preston, May
27, 1911. President Louisa B. Bennion pre-
siding. All members of the board were
present. Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
Prayer, Miller Golightly. Singing—Solo,
“Beyond the gates of Paradise,” Mrs.
Packer.
	An address of welcome was given by
Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson. A verbal
report of the stake was given by Counselor
Hannah Mickleson and denoted the organi-
zations in a good healthy condition, with the
mother’s work accomplishing more than had
ever been known before.
	Lesson, “The Father and Mother in the
Home,” was given by Lucy Cutler.
	A paper on a “Model Home” given by
Ella M. Hull.
	Elder Geo. C. Parkinson addressed the
conference on the subjects of home, our
life’s mission, and the importance of living
up to the professions we make by calling
ourselves Latter-day Saints, explained how
a good clean influence was felt everywhere.
	Sister Mary Hawkes added her testimony
and urged all to grasp the opportunities, and
privileges we all are blessed with.
	Singing, “The time is far spent.”
	Benediction, Esther Rogers.
	Afternoon Session—The Stake Presi-
dency members of High Council were pres-
ent.
	Singing, “High on the Mountain Top.”
	Prayer, Gretta Rollison.
	Singing, “O say what is truth?”
	Roll call denoted 19 branches represented,
160 present.
	President L. B. Benson addressed the
conference, “The mother’s work is doing
better than ever before.” Spoke of the or-
ganization of the Relief Society and in-

[Column 2]
structions given by the Prophet, also the la-
bors of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith, and the work of the
local workers in the Oneida Stake.
	Duet, “Gently lead us,” Leonard and Ma-
bel Moore.
	An able paper on “How, when and what
to read,” was given by Chloe M. Howell.
Recitation, “The shadow on the blind,” Ire-
ta Rollison.
	Solo, “The dear home songs,” Mrs. Lar-
son.
	Paper, “The benefits derived from moth-
ers’ work,” was given by Rae Hawkes.
	Stake Counselor Taylor Nelson said he
rejoiced in the gospel of truth and indi-
vidual effort, spoke on the joy and bless-
ings that would follow energetic labors in
the same.
	President Jos. Geddes spoke of the light
abroad in the earth, and what it means to all
people.
	Counselor James Johnson endorsed what
had been said and done and encouraged all
to profit by the same.
	Elder J. R. McNiel spoke on duty and
honoring the same.
	Elder John Larson said they were proud
of the Relief Society workers and of the
good they accomplished.
	President L. B. Benson made closing re-
marks.
	Singing, “On the Mountain Top Appear-
ing”
	Benediction, Chas. D. Goaslind.
						Stake Secretary.


ANNUAL DAY AT BUTTE, MONTANA.
	On the afternoon of the 17th of March,
1911, the Relief Society of the Butte
Branch of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints met at the home of First
Counselor Pauline Gabrielson to celebrate
in honor of the sixty-ninth anniversary of
the Relief Society, Sister Bertha Andrews
presiding. Singing, “Come, Come Ye
Saints.” Prayer, Sister Marie Evans. Sing-
ing, “Do What is Right.” President Bertha
Andrews said she was pleased to see so
many out to celebrate in honor of the sixty-
ninth anniversary of the Relief Society, and
also to pay our respects to the dear sister
who is leaving us to reside in Logan, gave
a short talk on the organiztaion of the Re-
lief Society, spoke of the good done by our
sisters in visiting the sick and relieving the
poor, and of how much good the teachers
could do and were doing. She said we are
sorry to lose Sister Gabrielson, as she has
been one of the most faithful workers in the
Relief Society of Butte; asked God to bless
her and her family.
	Counselor Sister Maggie Boam was much
pleased with the splendid talk of our presi-
dent; encouraged the sisters to be faithful
and true to the Gospel; bore a faithful tes-
timony and closed by asking God to bless
us all.
	Sisters Marie Jensen and Pauline Ga-
brielson added their faithful testimonies.
Sister Maggie Boam then presented Sister
Pauline Garbrielson with a quilt as a token
of the love the sisters bore her. The usual
10 cent fund was given. After singing, “We
Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,” the
benediction was pronounced by Sister Carrie
Adams.
CARRIE ADAMS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BABY HELEN.
ONE YEAR OLD.
Baby Helen’s silken hair,
O’er her forehead full and fair,
With it's tint of golden brown,
’Minds us of an angel’s crown
Doting father, young and fond,
Point her to the world beyond;
Live that your fair daughter may
Be your own through endless day.

Baby Helen’s laughing eyes,
Fill with innocent surprise,
That to her should be expressed
Tender greetings from each guest
Gentle mother, now secure,
By your teachings chaste and pure,
Peace with Heaven that, free from sin.
You with her may enter in.

Grandpa from his heart of love,
Calls his baby, “lamb" and “dove.”
And with playful, winsome charms,
Woos the darling to his arms.
Aunts and cousins, plainly thus,
Our Great Father calls to us;
Let us merit His embrace
When we see His glorious face.
L. L. Greene Richards.


YOU AND I.
When we walked a-down the hillside,—
Mountain-lilies called before,
And I held within my apron
Mountain-lilies score on score,
Then I scarce could hear you speaking,—
Spring was calling in my ear,
Till you took my hand in parting,—
Then, for aye, I knew you, dear.
When I hid beside the roadway,
Gay you called me “Butterfly,”—
But your face grew solemn—manlike,
When I dared not raise my eye,—
In the Long Ago, beloved,
You and I.

In the great Unseen beyond us,
When we leave this earth, this sky,
Will I know you by your handclasp,
And you by my half-hid eye?
Ah, belov’d, when we meet, Godlike,
What if, dear, we framed those signals
I to know you by your handclasp,
You to know me—"Butterfly,"
By a lid that fluttered, birdlike,
Ere I dared to raise my eye,—
In the great Before, beloved,
You and I?
—Blanche Kendall McKay.


[Column 1]
CHAUTAUQUA ASSEMBLY.
	We are aware that there are a number
of Utah people who are not familiar with
the term we are using, viz., Chautauqua As-
sembly, in explaining it definitely one must
necessarily go into detail—but suffice it to
say it is an institution of great merit and
advantage.
	This year it is coming to abide in Utah
one week or ten days and it will be of great
benefit to those who attend the entire course.
	The Chautauqua is in a way something
like the summer schools, yet far in advance
of any of those schools of which we have
reliable knowledge.
	Considering there is to be a Chautauqua
Assembly of one week and more in Ogden,
it will be well to have some information of
what it is, and how conducted.
	The name is derived from Chautauqua
Lake, seven miles from Lake Erie in the
State of New York, and the water is said to
be "the highest navigable water in the
United States.
	"Among the summer schools having a
general course all are eclipsed by that most
elaborate organization of summer school

[Column 2]
work which is offered by Chautauqua."
	Its origin dates back to 1874, but the Lit-
erary and Scientific Circle was not organ-
ized until 1878, the summer college in 1879
and the correspondence school in 1885."
The Chautauqua so-called comprises a se-
ries of courses designed for general culture
rather than for special training."
	Branch assemblies are held here and there
in different places which follow as nearly
as possible the plan of the General Meet-
ing. The scope of the work has attained re-
markable proportions of comprehensiveness
and utility comprised in groups of twelve
divisions, embracing hundreds of topics.
	Quite a number of great men are to give
lectures at the Chautauqua Assembly in Og-
den, during the week commencing Friday,
July 21, and closing Sunday, July 30.
	The Hon. Wm. Spry, Governor of Utah,
will deliver the address at the opening, and
President Frank M. Driggs will preside.
	Hon. B. H. Roberts will deliver an ad-
dress on Pioneer Day, July 24, entitled His-
torical Events in Utah's History. This will
certainly be a "Red Letter Day."
	Woman's Day will be Wednesday, July
26, and the speech of the occasion will be
by Prof. Howell, "The Age of Action."
Prof. Tyler, "Conformity to Environments."
Mrs. McMahon, President of Utah Federa-
tion of Clubs.
	The one feature of the Assembly that
appeals strongly to the writer is the "Round
Table." When we recall the great men and
women of the past, who figured conspicuous-
ly at the Round Table and whose names are
synonyms for literary and scientific re-
search, discoveries and attainments, and that
those few who have opened up avenues of
thought along new lines of enterprise and
activity and have truly been benefactors to
humanity; lighting the torches that have
been beacons to the race; when we recall
the few who led the way to higher think-
ing, and broader views of enlightenment,
then we include those few, who at the
"Round Table" entertained each other, and as
it were created from the depths of thought,
(sub-conscious) if one may use the term,
and from this nucleus, call it by what name
you will, there came an awakening. Hon-
or be to these great names, philosophers,
statesmen, inventors and men and women of
superlative genius in all the departments
of mentality that led to superior inventions
and skilled labor machinery.
	Much has been done in climbing the lad-
der of learning, but man has not yet reached
the sublime heights, and yet great things
have been done marvelous, and still the
world moves on, and far greater things are
yet to come—inventions for saving time and
labor are helping men and women to cul-
tivate those greater gifts and talents and
make spiritual progress, in higher attain-
ments than have as yet been conceived of
by mortal minds; we are as a people enter-
ing into higher realms of progress and ad-
vancement and even of power to control
agencies unknown to our forefathers, and
the unseen elements and forces that exist,
and are yet to be controlled by the skill and
ingenuity of man.
	The Round Table of Chautauqua Assem-
bly, will undoubtedly be one of the most
fascinating features of the gathering, and so
we who are figuring in the activities of the
present ought to see and hear what will
transpire or take place at the meetings of
scholars and professors of great renown

[Column 3]
from the universities of learning, that have
all the advantages that accrue from great li-
braries and associations with the scholars of
the world.
	Recalling the Round Table brings to mind
the time of King Arthur and his knights
and the days of chivalry and romance, the
deeds of valor and feasting and of trou-
badours, and the seats of honor, and of Sir
Galahad who alone could occupy the
only man who could sit in the Siege Per-
ilous at the "Round Table," because he was
chaste. The Round Table of the Chautau-
gua Assembly will be quite different from
that shown at Winchester, in England, or
that of King Edward III at Windsor some
seventy years later.
	If the coming event the Chautauqua As-
sembly is well advertised personally by men
and women interested in the higher educa-
tion and cultivation of the people of Utah
there is little doubt of its success. And it is
desirable that Utah should have the best of
everything.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, the sculptor, has
just returned from Rome.
	It is now said to be an established fact
that women have the right to vote at Parlia-
mentary elections in Portugal.
	It has been officially announced that an
International Men’s Union to further the
cause of woman suffrage has just been
formed.
	Polish women of the City of Chicago
have organized a woman suffrage society
to be known as the Polish Political League
of America.
	During the annual Episcopal Diocesan
convention in Connecticut a few days ago,
a motion was made by Rev. Edward Living-
ston Wells, to give women an equal voice
with men in parish administration. Mr.
Wells added that in many parishes women
do a great deal, if not most of the work.
	It is estimated that from 40,000 to 60,000
people marched in the Votes for Women
procession in London, June 17. Lady Stout
headed the New Zealand section, while Mrs.
Fisher, wife of the Premier, led the Austra-
lian division, and Mrs. McGowan, wife of
the Premier of New South Wales, walked
with the delegation from that state.
	Sunday-school Teacher: “I told you last
Sunday that I wished each one of you
would try to make at least one person happy
during the week. Did you?” Boy: “Yes,
miss; I made grandma happy.” “That’s
noble. How did you do it?” “I went to
visit her, and she says she is always happy
when she sees I’ve a good appetite.”
	A school teacher told a pupil to buy a
grammar. The next day she received this
note from the child’s mother:
	“I do not desire for Lulu shall ingage in
grammar, as I prefer her to ingage in use-
ful studise and can learn her how to spoke
and write properly myself. I have went
through two grammars myself and I cant
say they did me no good, I prefer her in-
gage in german and drawing and vocal
music on the piano.”


Woman’s Exponent.

			WOMAN’S EXPONENT

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-	-	JULY, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE FORTIETH VOLUME.
	It is very rare that a woman’s paper has
survived the changes that transpire in news-
paper or journalistic life for the number of
years this little periodical has held its place
among the women of this Western land.
To tell its complete history would be a long
story; what it has done and what recorded
during these years has been quite remark-
able. Not now because it is not so strange
a thing, but thirty-nine years ago times
here were very different, and indeed in the
United States there were very few women’s
papers.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston is the
oldest paper, founded by Lucy Stone, now in
its forty-second volume, having been issued
first in 1869. It has sometimes had a hard
struggle, yet it has always been a very pop-
ular paper with suffrage people, and those
of advanced ideas along the lines of pro-
gress. It has, however, had occasional gifts
of money, some large sums from those who
were anxious to help forward a movement
for the betterment of humanity. The only
other paper of the kind that has survived
so long was the Englishwomen’s Review,
that lived for half a century, and certainly
was one of the best periodicals of its time.
	The New North West, quite a popular
woman’s paper founded in Portland, Ore-
gon in 1869 by Abagail Scott, Dunniway,
was discontinued for lack of support, a
number of years ago.
	The Ballot Box of former days published
a few years in Toledo, Ohio, and afterwards
in Syracuse, New York, by Matilda Joslyn
Gage, one of the finest and best of that day.
	The Woman’s Tribune later in Washing-
ton, D. C.,, published and edited by Clara
B. Colby, a woman of untold energy and
enterprise the organ for some years of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association, as
the Woman’s Journal was for years of the
American Woman’s Suffrage Association;
there was one earlier paper, The Golden
Era, published in San Francisco, started
about the same time, perhaps a little later,
than the New North West, by Mrs. A. J.
Boyer whose nom de Phune was Dora Dart-
moor, that was discontinued long years ago
now, but it was very popular for a time
and prosperous. It was sort of light read-
ing, and did not advocate any such objec-
tionable principles as Woman Suffrage or
Dress Reform, but this and a dozen other
wornen’s pepers were comparatively short-
lived, notwithstanding their popularity.
	The Woman’s Exponent was not likely to

[Column 2]
be very popular with the people outside the
Latter-day Saints, because it has always
stood for “Mormon” doctrine from the very
first issue, and therefore its supporters and
patrons have been almost entirely of our
own faith. Yet it has gained some friends
outside both here at home, and abroad in
other countries.
	It has been very useful among our own
people especially as an organ of the Re-
lief Society, which is one of the most bene-
ficial societies in the world; and in its vol-
umes there is much history contained, which
is reliable for reference for future histor-
ians, not only concerning woman’s work,
industrial and educational, but the lives of
the women, who figured conspicuously in the
days of the Prophet Joseph and his succes-
sor, Brigham Young, and who in connec-
tion with these and other great men, notably
Heber C. Kimball, Parley P. and Orson
Pratt, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Or-
son Hyde and others whose names stand
significant in Church history. These women
helped to lay the foundations of the great
latter-day work.
	Home industry too has been fostered and
encouraged by women, and President Brig-
ham Young appreciated the assistance of our
sisters in many undertakings both of enter-
prise and reform, that he established and
many of these projects, and schemes, are
written up in the volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent and will furnish good material for
future historians who will, it is ardently
hoped, remember the women of Zion when
compiling the history of this Western land.
	There has been no great work during
these years commenced by women that has
not been considered and helped by this lit-
tle paper.
	The grain movement established by Brig-
ham Young was planned and encouraged by
the Woman’s Exponent under his specific di-
rection and counsel, and it most certainly
should be sustained by the women of these
mountain vales and not only continue to aid
and encourage the work of women, but be-
come essential in all the movements for the
uplifting of women in all the departments of
home-culture and development, and in the
spiritual strengthening of the inner life, and
the bringing to pass greater confidence and
excellence in the graces of character, and
nobility of soul, an intense sympathy with
human life that should characterize the
Saints of God and help them to attain that
breadth of benevolence and charity, that is
more than compensation for the lack of
worldly wealth. This is the aim and pur-
pose of the Gospel to create an atmosphere
of strength, that will tend to the knowledge
of the Everlasting Truth, that will reveal
itself in the personality of the Latter-day
Saints, that all those who come into their
presence may feel and realize.
	As a people we should sustain our own
publications, not only as a duty but from
principle as well; we ought to have superior
composition and it cannot be reached with-
out an effort. Every great good to which
this people has attained in the past, has re-
quired individual effort and persistence in
the direction sought. Now that the Wom-
an’s Exponent is just entering its fortieth
year it is a good time to give a little encour-
agement and patronage. Let the sisters try
what can be done in the several stakes to
increase the number who will take it and
pay in advance, and give it support by voice

[Column 3]
and by soliciting among those who should
be its patrons, if only for the history of the
Relief Society itself, and the sketches of the
women who have carried this benevolent
work forward; and when the young women
who are attaining such superior educations
want to write books and delineate character,
they will have a fountain of material in the
lives of the veterans of Mormonism, who
crossed the Mississippi river in the dead of
winter on the ice, and those who while camp-
ing on the banks of the river after being
driven out by the mob were fed by the quails,
they and their children will be as wonderful
in history and story and song, as the hero-
ines of Greece and Rome that the poets por-
tray in verse and song.
	There is no lack of nobility and heroism
among Mormon women, there may be per-
haps of grace and polish of manner, but the
daughters who write the history of these
prophetesses who went among the sick and
suffering and toiled for humanity’s sake, and
not for dollars and cents, but in the humil-
ity and meekness of saints in very deed,
should have their praises sung by those, who
now reap the benefits bequeathed to them by
these grand and noble women, whose sim-
ple acts of charity and love shed around
them such tenderness, that it remains with
us who live today and who knew them
seems as a holy consecration, that has en-
kindled in our hearts a desire to go forward
and do likewise.


“THE WAYS THEY ARE MANY AND
			WIDE.”
	The ways of life at the present time are
indeed many, and the paths in which some
are walking are very wide, and lead this way
and that, and the craze for the uncertain
ways is leading the young astray, and many
walk therein, and stray far from the paths
of safety, and after all what real joy is
there in pursuing a phantom? No true hap-
piness is gained and the end is sorrow and
lamentation, even if there should be peni-
tence.
	One looking on with sober thought at the
mad pursuit of pleasure, or vanity, so to
speak, cannot but realize in some small de-
gree at least the consequences that must
inevitably follow sooner or later, the reck-
lessness of the youth of the present day;
whose lives are to a large extent given over
to the pursuit of pleasure that is harmful
in its tendency if not in itself.
	Watching the crowds of pleasure seekers
as they go to and fro to the various resorts
where they congregate, and listening to the
snatches of conversation, judging of the
light conduct of many of those whose time
should be better employed, is almost heart-
rending; when one considers what the con-
sequences of such folly must be.
	What is possible for those to do who have
at heart the welfare of young people in the
midst of this whirlpool of pleasure and ex-
citement!
	It is a problem not easily solved. The
mad rush and restlessness that seems to be
abroad everywhere at the present time is
like a contagion; it spreads abroad until it
would seem to cover the earth.
	Parental care and authority in some in-
stances seem but of little avail, the wisdom
and experience of mature years, advising


and instructing is disregarded, until seem-
ingly there can be no restraining influence
brought to bear that will shield the unwary
from the pitfalls that lead downward; and
unless some powerful resistance is brought
to bear the wild course will end in misery
and destruction.
	Among the Latter-day Saints there seems
every safeguard possible thrown around the
youth of both sexes, and what more or bet-
ter methods can be devised than have al-
ready been instituted and put in practice.
Prayers and faith and home-training and
watchfulness, almost vigilance—if these do
not avail with all the educational training in
the school, the Sabbath School, the Mutual
Improvement Associations, what can be
done?
	There is no other people that pays more
attention, if as much, to the rising genera-
tion than the Latter-day Saints; seemingly
the children of the Saints are hedged about
with every protection possible; here and
there for obvious reasons there may be
homes where there is not the discipline per-
haps that ought to exist, and perhaps not
the devotion, the faith, the prayers, but such
homes are the exception and not the rule;
then why is this maddening rush for vanity
that undermines the health, that deprives
the life of its best perservative qualities and
leaves weakness, unsteady nerves, and pro-
vokes a restlessness that only the rush of
excitement satisfies and that but momen-
tarily.
	These are questions we cannot answer,
and only the wisdom that comes from on
High can inspire parents, teachers, and those
who have charge of young people to keep
an “eternal vigilance” over the youth of
Zion, it is said eternal vigilance is the price
of liberty—but where there is not only lib-
erty but license one might say, and incen-
tives to wrong-doing and pitfalls on every
hand to be shunned, and the innocent and
unsuspecting know not of the deception of
evil-doers and the betrayers of virtue, what
can be dope to arrest the progress of the de-
stroyer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FULFILLMENT OF PROPHECY.
	We who are living now are seeing won-
ders transpiring almost daily before our very
eyes, and the rapid movements that are be-
ing made in vehicles of all kinds of varieties
not only bring to mind Mother Shipton’s
prophecies, that are so frequently alluded to,
but the thoughtful people, who believe in the
scriptures recall prophetic sayings of the
Prophets of old:
	The modern methods of travel are indeed
astonishing, and it would seem that ere long
one may really fly hither and thither at will,
yet we know nature has not so provided, but
invention and ingenuity have achieved such
marvelous results that one stands amazed,
not knowing what may soon be accomplished
by the wonder-working brain, coupled with
the compelling forces so recently brought
into control by complicated processes of
man’s power over matter. And all these
things that are in a way coming about by
natural skill, and ability of mankind, are in
the fulfillment of the prophecies recorded in
the Scriptures, and have been foretold hun-
dreds of years ago.
	In the earlier days of the Church, when
the Elders were preaching among the peo-


ple, and the Gospel that seems to us who
are so well acquainted with it familiar now,
it was rather startling to hear the “Mor-
mon’’ Elders quoting from Isaiah and Eze-
kiel and Daniel and so on, and some of us
have almost forgotten these first lessons in
the Latter-day work; and we only talk of
the prevailing every-day topics usually; but
now and then the attention is called to
prophecy, and it brings before us the marvel
that has actually taken place before our very
eyes of that which is like magic and yet a
positive reality.
	The Old Testament is replete with pas-
sages significant of events transpiring
around us, and thoughtful people cannot
help now and then calling to mind the sol-
emn significance of some of these remark-
able sayings that have a direct bearing upon
the conditions of the days in which the pres-
ent generation are living.
	For instance we find recorded in the Book
of Nahum the following:
	“The chariots shall rage in the streets, they
shall jostle one against another on the broad
ways; they shall run like lightnings.”
	Could a better description of automobiles
be given than this ancient prophecy recorded
in the Scriptures, more than two thousand
years ago?
	It really ought to be convincing proof to
those who doubt the Old Bible, that there
were prophets taught of the Lord in those
ancient times.
	With the great progress being made in the
present age, what may we not look for in the
way of improvement, even now the people
that are going to and fro make one wonder
at the possibilities of travel and transporta-
tion.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES
	The Anti-Saloon League which did good
work for prohibition did not succeed in clos-
ing the saloons as we hoped to do, and ar-
dently desired, but it has paved the way for
the greater work which is to follow, and to
those who were zealous and worked dili-
gently much credit is due, and certainly the
effect of such a campaign cannot fail to pro-
duce results beneficial to those who took part
and the victory will be achieved sooner or
later for the wave of temperance is in the
air, and will eventually cover this country.
Notwithstanding the opposition is strong
and there are more against it than for it,
and there is money in favor of saloons, yet
the right in any cause is more than dollars
and cents. When there are no more saloons
other crimes will be lessened, as has already
been proven in the state of Kansas; and the
people will be more prosperous, and the
Lord will more abundantly bless the land for
the sake of those who love righteousness
and hate iniquity; and strong drink is a
compelling force in the cause of evil, and
the downfall of innocence and purity, and
the curse of cities and of nations.
	An uncommonly large number of wed-
dings have been solemnized in the Salt Lake
Temple during the month of June this year.
with wedding receptions at home afterwards.
These marriages of our young people are
very gratifying to the parents, and consid-
ering the number of Temples now in Utah
it seems there is no excuse for the young
men and women of the Latter-day Saints
to marry outside the Temple. There is no

[Column 2]
ceremony of marriage more perfect or more
beautiful in all its details than the cere-
mony in the Temples. There is a sacred-
ness there that is not felt outside the Temple.
	With the coming of summer and the real-
ly hot weather most of the women’s clubs
adjourn and many women and children hie
them away to the mountain resorts to rest
and recruit, and enjoy the luxury of cool
shades and refreshing breezes. Our moun-
tain retreats, canyons and vales are most
delightful places in which to escape for a
time from the rush, hurry and hustle of
busy city life, for we really are living in
what seems to Salt Lakers quite a large
modern city, we who have lived here many
years hardly realize its growth, it has been
so gradual, but if one pauses long enough to
consider what has been, and what it today
one can readily feel the upward trend to-
wards busy city life with many prevalent
vices and boisterous noises, that so oppress
one and affect one’s nerves, no wonder those
who can run away to the mountains and
vales, where it is possible to breathe freely
and sleep well, and come back refreshed and
invigorated to withstand the tumult of a
great city full of busy activity, bustle and
confusion. 
	The advertisement in this issue of the
paper of a class in Nursing and Obstetrics
calls to mind the great need there is of the
help of this kind for those who cannot
afford to pay the high prices of professional
nurses who have given years of time to prac-
tical study. Really it is an established fact
that every woman who looks forward to
motherhood should have some knowledge of
the physiology of her own body more than
that which is taught in the school-room.
Therefore we approve of all young women
taking a course of study in nursing. It is
also quite necessary, especially in country
places to have competent midwives, and in-
deed we believe that for all women, women
physicians are best. tI is good that we still
have a few graduated women physicians,
and it is much to be regretted that there are
so few of them. By all means let the Relief
Society encourage our sisters to study ob-
stetrics and pass a medical examination, so
that help can be obtained when needed
among the people. Knowledge is power is
as true now as it ever was, and a knowledge
of one’s own body is of the utmost conse-
quence to every woman, married, or single.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Elizabeth Yates died at Salt Lake
City, Utah, on December 31st, 1910, where
brief funeral services were held, presided over
by the Bishopric of the Emerson ward, after
which the remains were sent to Scipio, Mil-
lard County, for burial
	At a regular meeting of the Relief Society
at the Emerson Ward, held Jan. 3rd, 1911.
The following resolutions were read and
adopted:
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom, called from our midst, on Saturday.
December 31st, 1910, Elizabeth F. Yates; be it
	Resolved, by the officers and members of the
Emerson Ward Relief Society, of which Sis-
ter Yates was a faithful member, that we deep-
ly mourn her loss, and that we greatly appreci
ate the purity of her life, her wise counsel,
worthy example and the sweet influence of her
noble character, furthermore, be it


[Column 1]
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved
our sincere sympathy in the loss of a loving
mother; and be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, also that they
be made a part of the record of the Relief
Society and that a copy be sent to the Wom-
an’s Exponent for publication.
					Luella Harrow,
						Secretary.
	SKETCH OF ELIZABETH F. YATES.
	In the burial of Sister Elizabeth F. Yates
at Scipio, Utah, on Jan. 3, 1911, there was
closed the mortal career of another of that
splendid type of Pioneer Mormon Womanhood
of which Utah is so justly proud. Sister Yates
was born in South Moulton, Devonshire, Eng-
land, Oct. 8, 1833, and received the Gospel
there, being baptized and confirmed a member
of the Church on Dec. 4, 1851. On May 23,
1863, she had decided to make the sacrifice of
home, and sever all family ties, (for she was
the only one of a large family to receive the
Gospel) and emigrate to Zion.
	Leaving Liverpool on that date on the sail-
ing vessel Antararctis, seven weeks were spent
on the sea, nine days on the train, three days
on the Missouri River boat, and two months
and three days on the plains, arriving in Salt
Lake City with rejoicing and thanksgiving on
Oct. 3, 1863. Spending a year in Lehi, Utah,
she came to Scipio, then called Round Valley,
in 1864, and began the real life of a Pioneer.
	Her first home was a “Dugout,” of which
she was very proud. She often spoke with
pride of this humble home and rejoiced in the
fact that even in the days of her poverty she
was permitted to receive and entertain in this
primitive “dugout” home such prominent
Church officials as Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon and
other members of the Council of Twelve Apos-
tles.
	Sister Yates was a superior woman in every
way, dignified in appearance, impressive in her
address and humble in her spirit, she impressed
everyone with whom she associated, and her in-
fluence for good can hardly be estimated.
	She loved education and refinement, and in
later years, as opportunities came, on her
table could always be found the choicest liter-
ature.
	She was a subscriber for the Deseret News
from the time she came to Utah in 1863 and
for the Woman’s Exponent from its first pub-
lication, till her death, and for the Juvenile
Instructor from its first issue till after her
youngest child was married.
	She was always active as a Church worker.
As a Sunday School teacher, as an officer in the
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion and the Primary Association she wielded
a splendid influence among the young people
of her home ward, and many bear testimony
that they received their first impression of
correct living from Sister Yates.
	From July, 1876, till May, 1883, she was Pres-
ident of the Relief Society of the Scipio Ward.
On this latter date she was released from this
position to accept the Presidency of the Relief
Society of Millard Stake, which position she
filled with credit and honor until the fall of
1904, when she left the stake in order to be
near her children who had moved to Salt Lake
City and Ogden. Sister Yates was the mother
of nine children, six of whom, together with
her husband, Bishop Thos. Yates, who died
Feb. 23, 1903, had preceded her to the other
side.
	Dying in full faith in the Gospel she looked
forward to a happy reunion with these and
other loved ones, and left with those remain-
ing an incentive for good living, so that they
too may enjoy the society of those “gone be-
fore.”
	The end came peacefully in her beautiful
home in Salt Lake City, on Dec. 31, 1910. Her
son, Thomas J. Yates, and her daughter, Liz-
zie Y. Thompson (the other daughter Louie Y.
Robison being detained at home on account of
sickness) accompanied the remains to Scipio,
where she was tenderly laid to rest by the side
of her husband.
	The funeral services were beautiful and im-
pressive. Remarks were made by Frederic R.
Lyman and Orvil L. Thompson of the Millard
Stake Presidency, by the members of the Bish-

[Column 2]
opric of the Scipio Ward, by Patriarch Daniel
Thompson, a life long friend and associate of
Bishop and Sister Yates, and Elder Peter
Nielson, a counselor to Bishop Yates during
his long service in that position. All bore
strong testimonies of the splendid life and
character of Sister Yates and encouraged her
children, her twenty-eight grand-children and
her eight great-grandchildren, to emulate in
their lives her worthy example.
	Nothing could be more beautiful than her
life. While she was in possession of physical
strength she ministered to the physical as well
as the spiritual needs of her associates, and
no one was ever turned from her home un-
warmed or unfed.
	As her physical powers failed she was able
to spend much time in the Temple of the Lord
where she did work for many of her loved
ones who had passed away, and as the end ap-
proached she could well say: “Father, my
work is done, take me home to Thee.”
	Dinah Stoddard Wrigley departed this life
June 1, 1911. Whereas, it has pleased our
Heavenly Father, the Ruler of the universe,
Who doeth all things well, to remove from
our midst our beloved sister and co-worker
in the Relief Society of the Ferron Ward, in
the Emery Stake of Zion.
	Be it resolved, that we extend to the family
our sincere sympathy and appreciation of our
sister’s worth.
	In her death we realize the loss of a faith-
ful and energetic good woman, who was ever
ready to minister to the sick and needy, and at
all times doing whatsoever she could to help
the upbuilding of the Church of God on the
earth, and therefore has earned the great re-
ward which has been promised to the faithful
and entitles her to a glorious resurrection.
	Sister Dinah Wrigley was born at Callile,
Cumberland County, England, May 16, 1850.
She crossed the ocean when six years of age,
and came to Utah in the first handcart com-
pany in 1858. Her father died while crossing
the plains. She was chosen second counselor
in the Relief Society Board, when it was or-
ganized at Ferron in Dec. 1882, and has held
an honorable position in the same up to the
time of her death.
	May He who has said He will be a hus-
band to the widow, and father to the fatherless,
pour into the wounded souls of the bereft ones
in this dark hour of separation, the oil of heal-
ing.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions
be sent, with our sympathies to the bereaved
family, and that the same be recorded on the
records of our Society, also a copy be sent to
the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
			MARY J. KING, President.
			OLIVE M. OLSEN, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ON NURSE CLASS.
	The people of Snowflake Stake were sad-
ly in need of competent help in times of
sickness, especially in confinement cases.
Seeing this great need and realizing the con-
dition and circumstances of the people, the
Stake Board of Relief Society with the
hearty support and co-operation of the Stake
Presidency secured the service of Sister
Maud L. Ditty to come to Arizona and teach
a course in obstetric nursing.
	Sister Ditty came highly recommended by
Apostle and Mrs. C. W. Penrose and bear-
ing a certificate from “Her Majesty’s Board
of Midwifery,” London, England.
	She was a very thorough, competent
teacher. Her class work was a success in
every particular, and was looked upon as
being superior by our best local physicians.
	She came here under very trying circum-
stances as most of the towns of the stake
were under quarantine.
	The class work was opened January 23,
1911. There were twenty-three members.


Three were sent by the Stake Board and
one or two from several of the Relief So-
ciety associations throughout the stake.
	All the members completed the work with
good percentage. The lowest being eighty-
six per cent.
	Some of the ladies were mothers of large
families, others had to come a distance of
three miles, yet they attended the class al-
most daily. The average attendance was
twenty-two.
	The commencement exercises were nicely
rendered. Papers were read by the mem-
bers, interspersed with music and song.
Speeches were made to the graduates by
Sister Ditty, Bishop John Hunt and Pres-
ident Samuel F. Smith. The latter deliv-
ered a very beautiful and appropriate ad-
dress commending the work done by the
Stake Board, the teacher and students.
President Smith also presented the certifi-
cates. Thus ended a work which will be
greatly appreciated and be far-reaching in
its effects.
	Sister Ditty left immediately for Salt
Lake City.
					LULA J. SMITH.


SKETCH OF THE LABORS OF
		MARY J. R. WEST.
	Mary J. R. West first saw the light of day
Oct. 24, 1847. Born of goodly parents in
what is now Davis County, Utah. Her first
home being a wagon box.
	Her parents were called, when she was
a little girl, to help settle Parowan, Iron
County, Utah. Here she met and married
John A. West. They lived in Parowan un-
til 1878, when they were called to settle
Arizona. To Arizona they came, making
their home in Snowflake.
	Eleven children were born unto them.
Four of whom have gone to the great be-
yond. One of the little ones was a sufferer
all his life, requiring the constant care of his
mother, and to this child she was most earn-
estly devoted. He lived five years.
	Her trials have been many, but were met
with courage and fortitude.
	As an example of her nobility of char-
acter and her constant devotion to the sad
and motherless I will relate a few incidents.
	She had a half brother who was so badly
frozen when a child that his mental faculties
were impaired, and after the death of her
mother she took this brother into her home
and cared for him until death came.
	Another brother was left with five small
children, for these sister West cared until
they were grown. One of these girls died,
leaving a little girl, and her dying request
was for “Auntie” to care for her child. This
she did and is now doing a mother’s part
by the child.
	Sister West has always been faithful in
attending her religious duties. She was the
first president of the Snowflake Ward Relief
Society which office she filled with honor
for fifteen years. November 21, 1895, she
was set apart as second counselor to Emma
S. Smith in the stake Relief Society. She
served in this office ten years. She was
called to preside over the Relief Society in
Snowflake Stake August 11, 1905. At a
recent conference the President and Board
were honorably released.
	During Sister West’s administration she
and her board have accomplished very much


good in helping the poor and needy, the sick
and those who needed comfort, and they
have contributed liberally to the public build-
ings. The results of the nurse course which
was established during the past six months
will probably be more beneficial than any
other work.
	Sister West has had very poor health dur-
ing most of last winter. She was helpless
for a number of weeks.
	She left Snowflake May 23 for her home
in Salt Lake City, where she will now re-
side. We will miss her very much in this
Stake. She leaves with the love and respect
of her co-laborers and all who knew her. We
trust she will regain health sufficient to per-
form the labor in the Temple which she de-
sires to accomplish.
					LULA J. SMITH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	At the quarterly conference of the Snow-
flake Stake, held June 3 and 4, 1911, Stake
President of Relief Society, Mary J. R.
West, her counselors and board were hon-
orably released. These sisters have served
long and faithfluly.
	A new organization was effected as fol-
lows Nellie M. Smith, President; Belle H.
Flake, first counselor; Anna S. Shumway,
second counselor; Maud F. Ramsey, secre-
tary, and Lulu J. Smith assistant secretary
and treasurer.
				LULA J. SMITH.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	At the approach of warm weather the
housewife begins to lay away the heavy
wraps and bedding used in the cold weather.
One of the best means to protect the furs
and woolens from moth is the use of gaso-
line. Dip the whisk broom in the gasoline
and sprinkle it lightly over the clothing be-
fore folding, then if the articles are tightly
wrapped in newspaper and laid in your
boxes or on the closet shelves you need
have no fear of moth, of course the cloth-
ing thus placed away should first be
brushed and aired.
	Fine china plates are sometimes cracked
and broken by placing too many together.
The weight is likely to break the lower
ones in the stack.
	A little salt and gasoline sprinkled on the
velvet or brussels carpet cleans and bright-
ens it wonderfully. But one must always be
careful not to have any fire around when
using gasoline.
	For hoarseness. The juice of a lemon
and two table spoonsful of glycerine mixed
with a liberal quantity of honey will cure
hoarseness and is very good for coughs and
colds.					A. W. C.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual Conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society was held in Ninth Ward
meetinghouse, June 22, 1911, Pres. Annie
S. Musser, presiding.
	Sisters Romania B. Penrose and Sarah
McLelland of General Board were present,
also Elder C. W. Symons of Liberty Stake
High Council.


After the opening exercises, Pres. Mus-
ser welcomed the sisters. The statistical
and financial report for the year ending
December, 1910, was read and accepted.
The general officers, also the stake officers
were unanimously sustained. A piano solo
was rendered by Sister Elnora Miller. Re-
ports were made of the first five wards of
Liberty Stake, all were progressing, and
in the line of their duty. Sister Maud Ken-
ner rendered the solo, “There is Sunshine in
the Soul.” Sister Penrose addressed us for
a short time on mother’s work, care of chil-
dren, also care of the body.
	Sister McLelland spoke on prohibition,
and the benefits to be derived by leading
temperate lives.
	After the closing exercises conference
took recess until 2 o’clock. During the
noon recess lunch was served to all present,
and a musical program rendered. Confer-
ence reconvened at 2 o’clock, after the op-
ening exercises Elder Levi E. Young gave
us a talk on the Signs of the Times, Relief
Society work, and related some early his-
tory of this Society, paid many tributes to
woman and motherhood, the talk was very
instructive and listened to with interest.
Sister Elnora Miller played a selection from
“Il Travatore.” Sister Sarah McLelland re-
lated some of her missionary experiences
and read a synopsis of her trip to Nauvoo.
Sister R. B. Penrose spoke of the early
trials and sufferings of the Saints, also of
her missionary labors in Europe. Elder
Symons urged all the sisters to work and
vote for prohibition; gave us some good
instructions, and encouraged us to continue
in doing good.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success,
and after the closing exercises, conference
adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


[Column 1]
			JORDAN STAKE.
	Conference minutes of the Jordan Stake
Relief Society held at Sandy, May 18, 1911.
Pres. Hildah H. H. Larson presiding, Maria
T. Goff conducting the exercises.
	President Emmeline B. Wells and her
Counselors, Clarissa S. Williams, and Julina
L. Smith were present. Meeting opened
by singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” Prayer by Stake Counselor
James Jensen. Continued by singing,
“Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere Desire.”
	Minutes of previous conference read and
roll called. Reports were heard from near-
ly all the wards, which were in good con-
dition, most of them owned granaries and
all were storing grain.
	Counselor Maria T. Goff felt pleased
with the reports and felt greatly honored to
have our dear President Emmeline B. Wells
and her counselors meet with us.
	President E. B. Wells felt pleased with
the reports given of Temple work done, and
complimented the sisters on the correctness
of reports given. Spoke of the great work
done by the Relief Society and urged the
sisters to do their duty as Relief Society
workers.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams was grate-
ful to the Lord for her position as a leader
in Relief Society work; urged us all to be
missionaries and get a better attendance to
our Relief Society meetings. The Lord has

[Column 2]
given us brains, so do not let them get rusty
but use them for a good purpose.
	Stake Counselor J. W. W. Fitzgerald
gave some good instructions to the sisters.
	Meeting closed by singing “High on the
Mountain Top.” Benediction by Elzina
Beckstead. Meeting adjourned till 2 o’-
clock.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened by
singing, “Come, Come Ye Saints.” Prayer
by J. W. W. Fitzgerald continued by sing-
ing, “How Firm a Foundation.” Minutes
read and approved.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was pleased
to hear the stake was doing Temple work
as so many are waiting on the other side
for us to do the work for them. The
Prophet Joseph had said that all good and
virtuous women should belong to the Re-
lief Society. Let us as mothers do all we
can to stop the liquor traffic.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams thought
it a good idea that we had an honored list,
that is, of members too old and unable to
attend the saints’ meetings.
	We can all aim to be faithful and make
others love us.
	Pres. Hyrum Goff said: Sisters, oppose
everything wrong and uphold everything
that is right. Continue in working for the
dead as it is a glorious work.
	Pres. E. B. Wells said the Relief Society
was the oldest organization of women in
the world and was doing a great work in
caring for the sick and the poor. Bore her
testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Had never met another man so wonderful.
About $40,000.00 had been expended for
charity during the year 1910, by the Relief
Society in its stakes and branches, not in-
cluding missions.
	Pres. Hilda H. H. Larson felt to appre-
ciate that we all had had an opportunity of
hearing Pres. Emmeline B. Wells who has
had so much experience in Relief Society
work.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Closed by singing, “The Spirit of God.”
Benediction by Bishop W. D. Kuhre.
			ELIZABEETH GARDNER, Secy.
			ELIZABETH MONSON, Ass’t.


BECAUSE. 
Because women have to obey the laws just 
	as men do, they should vote equally with
	men.
Because women pay taxes just as men do, 
	thus supporting the government, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because women suffer from bad govern-
	ment just as do men, they should vote
	equally.
Because mothers need every help in mak-
	ing their children’s environment good, 
	they should vote equally with men. 
Because over 5,000,000 women in the Unit-
	ed States are in industry, and their health 
	and that of our future citizens is endan-
	gered by evil working conditions that can
	only be remedied by legislation, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because women of leisure that serve the 
	State in public matters should be able to 
	back their advice by their vote, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because busy housemothers and profession-
	al women cannot give such public ser-
	vice, and only serve the State by the 
	same means used by the busy men—


namely, by casting a ballot; they should
	vote equally with men.
Because women need to be trained to a
	higher sense of social and civic respon-
	sibility and such sense develops by use,
	they should vote equally with men.
Because women are the consumers, and the
	consumers need fuller representation in
	politics, they should vote equally with
	men.
Because women are citizens of a democracy,
	which is a government of the people, BY
	the people and FOR the people, and
	women are people, they should vote
	equally with men.
The Organized Enemies of woman’s suf-
	frage are the Liquor Interests, the Cor-
	rupt Corporations and the Corrupt Pol-
	iticians.
Why? Because Woman’s chief interest is
	the Home and Women will VOTE FOR
	THE HOME.
The Liquor Traffic breaks up the Home by
	causing crime and poverty.
The Corrupt Corporations tend to break up
	the Home by endeavoring to place the
	wealth of our country in the hands of the
	few, leaving empty the hands of the
	many.
The Corrupt Politicians make possible the
	business crimes of the Liquor Interests
	and the Corrupt Corporations.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PROGRESSIVE CATHOLICS.
	Catholic women have always distin-
guished themselves in church and charitable
work. In these latter days they are gradu-
ally coming into greater prominence in edu-
cation and public service.
	The Cathoilc girls’ high school in Phila-
delphia for the first time was this year ad-
dressed by a woman, Miss Agnes Repplier,
the Lateare Medallist of 1911 of the Univer-
sit[-] of Notre Dame.
	One of the six graduates from the law de-
partment of St. John's, Toledo, Ohio, was a
woman.
	It is reported that the Catholic Univer-
sity of America in Washington. D. C., is to
become co-educational in a measure.
Courses have been arranged for nuns. It is
expected that in the next few years the
work will grow and that the university will
make a special point of educating women for
orders. Sisters from Detroit, Mich., have
entered the university for the summer, and
it is expected they will pass the next two
years there working for the degree of B. A.
	Announcement is made that Sister An-
tonio Mercedes of St. Xaviers Convent,
Beatt[-]. Pa., has received the degree of doc-
tor of letters from Cardinal Gibbons. She is
the first American nun to win such a dis-
tinction. Sister Antonio. who is of Spanish
descent, belongs to the Sisters of Mercy.
For many years she has written articles on
religion under the pen name of Reverend
Richard W. Alexander.
	The "Catholic Women's Suffrage Soci-
ety," an efficient and active organization.
marched in the great suffrage procession in
London. A pamphlet which this society
takes pride in circulating is entitled "The
Views of Cardinal Moran and the Late Car-
dinal Vaughan on Woman Suffrage.”—
Woman’s Journal.


WOMEN LAWYERS.
	Miss Olive Conger, one of the successful
contestants at the recent bar examination,
was admitted to practice recently before
the Supreme Court of the District of Co-
lumbia at a meeting of the court in general
term. Miss Conger was admitted in ad-
vance of the other contestants because she
desired to leave Washington at once for
Los Angeles, Cal. She will take up the
practice of law in that city. Miss Conger is
an employe in the customs divisions in the
Treasury Department. She became a grad-
uate of the Washington College of Law
last May, and while at the law school took
first prize for work in the moot court and
second prize in point of scholarship. She is
a cousin of former Minister to China Ed-
ward Conger and of former Senator Conger
of Michigan. Before coming to Washington
Miss Conger was a clerk in the Iowa State
Legislature.
	Six more women took the bar examina-
tion, all graduates of the Washington Col-
lege of Law. They will not know their fate
until the fall.
	Women are not admitted to the bar in
Georgia, Virginia and Arkansas.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS. 
	An unusually interesting program is be-
ing prepared for the National Suffrage con-
vention which meets in Louisville, Ky., Oct. 
19 to 25. 
	New York newspapers report that the 
annual election at Larchmont-on-the-Sound
brought out many society women, who voted 
for the various officers and at the same time 
assisted in carrying the appropriation of 
$25,000 for the new village sidewalks. 
	The Woman Suffrage Association of the 
District of Columbia, having learned of the 
introduction of the Bristow bill, conferring 
the right of the ballot on men of the Dis-
trict, has adopted resolutions calling for its
amendment so as to include women, as well 
as men, as its beneficiaries. 
	The address delivered by Mrs. Carrie 
Chapman-Catt at the opening of the Sixth 
Congress of the International Woman Suf-
rage Alliance in Stockholm, is to be trans-
lated into the languages of all the civilized 
lands and given a world-wide distribution. 
Funds to defray the expenses involved were 
voted by acclamation. Mrs. Catt was re-
elected president of the Alliance. 
	Dispatches from Sweden state that the 
International Suffrage convention at Stock-
holm accorded a warm welcome to Rev. 
Anna Howard Shaw, president of the Na-
tional American Suffrage Association, the 
whole assemblage rising at her entrance. 
The Swedish papers speak highly of Dr.
Shaw’s eloquence at a service in the State 
Church, where she occupied the pulpit, the 
first woman to receive this honor. 
	Lord Brassey, at the age of seventy-five, 
has become a convert to the suffrage cause, 
and his accession to the ranks is one of 
considerable importance, for Lord Brassey 
is a peer who commands universal respect, 
who has always enjoyed a reputation for 
sound, common sense and level-headedness, 

[Column 2]
and who has led a very useful life. His 
wife, Lady Brassey, is a sister of Lord Es-
sex. 
	Trinity Church of Seattle, Wash., known 
as very “high church’ ’and conservative, at 
its recent annual church meeting elected a 
woman as alternate delegate to the Diocesan 
Council soon to be held in Tacoma. The 
woman is Mrs. Rowe, wife of Rev. P. T. 
Rowe, the famous Bishop of Alaska. Rev. 
H. H. Gowen is pastor of Trinity. In 
presiding over the meeting he ruled that 
women are eligible, though, as far as is 
known, this is the first time one has been
chosen in the Episcopal church. Mr. Gowen 
expressed a willingness to make Mrs.
Rowe’s election a test case. 
	Hon. Andrew Fisher, Premier of the 
Commonwealth of Australia, when inter-
viewed in London a few days ago, said:
“How any man of advanced views can fail 
to see the justice of the claim the women 
are working for—the power to vote on the 
same terms as men—I cannot understand. 
The only logical position that women can 
take is to demand equal rights with men. I 
am surprised that every labor man cannot 
see that. The participation of women in 
public affairs in Australia has proved a 
benefit to the Commonwealth and to the 
women. It has been an unqualified success.”
	The thirteenth annual commencement of 
Cornell University Medical College was held 
June 14. The graduating class, eight of the 
members of which were young women, 
numbered fifty-five. The first honors were 
carried off by Miss Dudley, of Brooklyn; 
second honors went to Miss Dean, of Mine-
ola; while two other young women were on 
the honor roll of ten. President Schurman 
delivered the address, and, referring to the 
progress that women are making in the 
world, he said: “Women everywhere are 
giving a splendid account of themselves. 
Two women have carried off the highest 
honors here today. Everywhere it is the 
same. The women stand exceptionally high 
in their classes.”


SCHOOL OF NURSING
and
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence her
school in nursing, Monday, September 25, 1911.
Course continues eight months. Class in Ob-
stetrics will start October 9, 1911. (Those
who study Obstetrics are required to attend
the Nurse Class. No extra charge.)
	Though every young woman may not wish
to be a nurse, yet to know herself is an im-
portant matter to every woman.
Terms for Nursing.................$25.00
Terms for Obstetrics...............50.00
	Approximate cost of text books from $5.00
to $8.00.
	PLEASE GIVE AS WIDE CIRCULATION
AS POSSIBLE FOR THESE OPPORTUNI-
TIES FOR WOMEN.
	Write to Dr. M. C. Roberts for further in-
formation.
79 C. St., Salt Lake City.
Bell Phone 2002.


Mary Jarvis.
								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


