Vol. 40.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, HOLIDAY NUMBER, 1911					No. 5.


CONTENTS.
We All Loved Her.....................................
	....................L. Lula Greene Richards	43
Opportunity...................Amanda M. Done	35
Clara Barton is 90......................................	37
A Pioneer Woman Passed Away................	38
Another Ward President Passes On...........	38
The Business of Home Making...A. W. C.	39
Notes About Women.................................	40
Notes and News....................................... 34, 35
Household Hints........................................	38
R. S. Reports—Benson Stake....................	40
	Liberty Stake......................................	40
	Oneida Stake......................................	40
Editorial:
	Christmas Thoughts...........................	36
	The Rose............................................	36
	Notice.................................................	36
	History of the Y. L. M. I. A................	37
	Literary Notes.....................................	37
	Mme. Mountfort in Pasadena.............	37
Obituary......................................................	38
In Memoriam..............................................	38
Poetry:
	December............................................	33
	A Christmas Quest..............................
		.....................Alice Merrill Horne	33
	A Midnight Reverie...............E. B. W.	35
	Never Alone...............Mary A. Freeze	35


[Column 1]
	A CHRISTMAS QUEST. 
			A Wish.
				I.
Be merry and glad this Christmas tide,
And Christmas cheer, may it be world-wide!
			Greeting.
				I.
Far from the Christmas chimes of lofty church, 
And glow of Christmas candles flick’ring
	bright,
I, shelter’d ’neath my dizzy mountain porch, 
Far up the rock-ribbed, solitary height, 
Greet ye, who light the candles, Christmas
	Night.
				II.
Safe-cabin’d, marshall’d round with pine and 
fir, 
Agreen ’neath fleecy drapes of light 
And bare-limb’d quaking aspens white—
Bare maples—bushes bare,—
Bend ’neath the weight of winter—
But winter’s wither’d leaves no longer wear.
				III.
I, never bold, in truth a coward I, 
Though all alone in this wild home 
Send through my fire-lit pane a signal light, 
Greeting for a prosp’rous New Year with 
Christmas love bedight, 
A star to glimmer ’cross the hills, 
A star to watchers in the hollow. 
A star no lumb’ring foot may follow, 
For snow on snow hath locked in frost 
Each living thing! The Earth itself seems lost.
				IV.
E’en the wild willow fring’d creek,
From where it makes its mountain leap
In vain I seek; 
No track zigzags ’tween oaks athwart the steep 
And odd quaint line of purpling birch, 
And e’en the brave snow birds desert their
	perch.

[Column 2]
				V.
Above yon rythmic hills’ snow-quilted beds 
Proud wearers of the ermine lift their heads; 
Above, below, each way the same—
Picture on picture fills my window pane. 
A picture new to make I need but move, 
And need not move to look forth on a world 
of love. 
			A Quest. 
				I. 
A recluse I, in nature’s hermitage,
For lo these years, 
In quest of life and its divinest fluid 
Youth, hath built a temple in “The Groves.”
	A Druid, 
Lo, in centuries far back in Lethe’s stream,
Worship’d among the stones and trees. 
I wonder if he, too, did dream?
				II.
A wand’rer I, among the wilds 
Of lonely hills, 
Always my quest alone I take 
For her dear sake. 
(Unlike the Spanish cavalier who sought 
Perpetual youth and found it not), 
For lo, in truth I have it found, 
My impulse quicken’d, my slow step renew’d,
I find it in the lark’s first song at morn, 
And where the restless ancient lake is born 
Amid the ferns—the maidenhair and mosses, 
Where dripping water moldeth a cool cup 
For him who climbs and crosses 
The divide, or him who seeks 
To reach the unseal’d peaks
And looks into the heavens,
And back to nature turns for drink.
				III.
Yea, I have found it ’mong the roots of the 
	young cedar, 
The hemlock, fir, mahogany and ash, 
That I for my retreat do gather 
To there transplant, and in the crash 
Of ancient trees that feed my winter fire.
				IV.
It is yonder ’mong the highest sandstone rocks, 
So hath withstood the quaking of ages’ shocks,
For there the vision flieth o’er chain on chain
To where the Inland Sea frets the white salted
	plain.
				V.
I know it lingers where I gather 
Grass and moss and all that’s fleeting,
When the cold comes creeping, stealing 
Berries bright and leaves that wither, 
But retain some tint, some feeling, 
Some suggestion of the Harvest, 
Just a thought, a hope of Summer.
				VI.
I find it in my bearskin coat and rug, 
High shoes and cap from mountain lion’s hide,
Fashioned with wit; 
I find it in the fire beside which now I sit 
And laugh at cold, 
In the pine nuts popping in the ashes, 
While pine burrs from the fire flashes,
A haunch of red-fleshed venison 
Drips, sizzling, o’er the iron pan, 
Beside the smoking mug!
			Alone.
				I.
But banished. They could not share 
My pilgrimage, a danger unto them, 
So must I bear this quest of life alone. 
I wonder do they live, I know they think of me, 
If yet they do abide at the old home. 
But I must tear my thoughts away from there, 
And dry these tears 
All else were madness. 
I must yet abide a few more years, 
Ere I may seek them who now wait my com-
	ing.
[Column 3]
				II.
I wonder if he doth repent the wrong.
I wonder if that sneering ape—ah! hush!
’Tis Christmas night—the hour grows late, 
I must look out: My fate
Is there in the rising wind. I hear 
My fire-lit pane the cold drifts brush. 
Fresh, down the lonely mountain, deer trails 
Show dimly through light scint’ling snow veils.
				III.
Ah, thou art safe; my snow shoes could not
	track
The young doe from her proud mate tonight. 
But on the wind a song floats back. 
Rejoice! lift up thine eyes! 
Look through the veils into the skies, 
In these snow veils, and fresh snow trails 
Shroud ye thy sadness, 
Thy snow shoes give to the Spirit of Gladness, 
And hope let wing to the peaks its flight 
But bury thy sorrow and woe tonight! 
		A Christmas Grave. 
				I. 
Bury them low 
In a cold grave of snow, 
For there’s aye good luck in a Christmas
	white.
Then hail Good Luck this Christmas night!!
				II.
Bury so low 
All thy sorrow and woe, 
Bury thy woe where the wild winds mow
O’er chilly fields of shivering snow, 
Icy, fleecy, shimmering stars
’Neath the palest moonbeams bars, 
Whirling they go,
Swirling aglow, 
Never to linger, 
Forever to wander, 
Never to grow—
E’en in Spring not to grow–
This day Christmas love only may grow
				III.
Bury so low 
All thy trouble and woe; 
Bury them low, 
With the sneers, 
With the jeers, 
And all the dark fears 
Of thy past fleeting years, 
Of the fast fleeting years; 
Ay, with the tears, 
The heartaches,
The heartbreaks, 
The sears, 
Hiding deep wounds; 
Make these snow drifts, 
These cold rifts 
Their biers.
For the North Wind can chill, 
The Ice King can kill 
Thy troubles, thy woe, 
This glad Christmas, I trow.
				IV.
Yes, lay them low, 
All thine anguish and woe; 
Forget thou hadst ever a foe; 
Forget that he ever was faithless; construe 
The coward as one who was weak, not untrue, 
But think on the one who has always loved you 
Aye foster the truth that is new!
				V. 
Bury the woe, 
Thine anguish lay low, 
Lay it low, make a head-cross of snow; 
Icy graves of white strow 
Deck with colors that glow: 
With the roseberries red, 
Christmas holly-beads, spread 
With green ivy 
And wreaths of white mistletoe.
Kneeling,
Sighing
A requiem low,
O’er the new grave of thy sorrow and woe. 
From its ashes, thou, mortal must grow, 
And only from ashes can the soul ever grow.


The Star.
		“Lo, I am with you always.”
				I.
From ages afar,
A mystical star
Lights my house,
Steers my course.
As the star-guided wise men
Laid gifts in the manger
Have I seen a star,
And my gift would bestow.
And lo, hear the choir,
That sang, to the Shepherds
In dark Bethlehem,
Singing, “Glory to God
And Peace to ye men!
				II.
“Lo, the crucified Christ,
Crucified not in vain,
The Redeemer, the Savior
Whose message hath glimmer'd,
Whose radiance hath shimmer’d
Adown the long chain
Of time,
That ye hear in the carol
And in the church chime,
Bringing peace to ye men.
Him receive ye again.”
			The Promise.
				I.
And far o’er the chorus of angels
My Savior
I hear:
“Lo! on the wing
Of love
I healing bring
To thee.
Be thou made whole.
Thy soul
Is known to me;
Thy desires
I understand,
Thou art no stranger,
My younger brother,
Call thou my name,
And I shall answer.
This key
I give to thee
To be thine forevermore.
A cross I bore
Greater than thou doth bear;
Yea, through Death’s portal
My Father sent me,
To sorrow lent me,
That thou mightst die to live
Immortal.”
Then, this glad Christmas time,
Lo! I open my soul
To enshrine
The DIVINE!!!
				—Alice Merrill Horne.


DECEMBER.
“That day is best wherein we give
	A thought to others’ sorrows:
Forgetting self, we learn to live,
And blessings born of kindly deeds
	Make golden our tomorrows.”
						—Selected


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WE ALL LOVED HER.
	[Dear Aunt Em:—This sketch was lost
for about three years, and has just come to
light again. It is offered to the Exponent
now with the thought that many readers
will appreciate the beautiful life lessons
given in its portrayal of a fine and noble
character. It was written for and read at
the funeral of Sister Elizabeth O. Decker,
which was held in Salt Lake City, Dec. 13,
her death having occurred Dec. 8, 1908.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 9, 1911.	L. L. G. R.]
			A TRIBUTE.
	The sister workers of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple highly esteem the privilege of contrib-
uting a few minor jewels and modest blos-
soms to the beautiful garland being formed
of thought-gems and flowers of affection
as a parting tribute to the memory of “Aunt
Lizzie Decker.”
	By this name she has been familiarly
called of late years by her near friends.

[Column 2]
Most of us have known her as a true and
noble woman long before we became asso-
ciate workers in the Temple. Some of us
remember her even as a girl, when she was
simply Lizzie Ogden. And such a warm-
hearted, trusting, lovable girl as she was, is
not likely ever to be forgotten.
	Later, as a wife and mother, her trueness
and fidelity never was, never could be sur-
passed by any woman in mortality. As a
consistent, conscientious Latter-day Saint,
in any position which fell to her lot, (and
she filled a number, in Relief Society, Sun-
day School and other Church works) Aunt
Lizzie’s example, both in word and action,
stands second to none.
	Brief reference may here be appropriate-
ly made to a testimony borne by her in one
of the fast meetings which she so much ap-
preciated and loved. The subject of tithe
paying was being discussed by the volun-
tary speakers in the meeting, when Aunt
Lizzie arose and told a pathetic little story
of how she once proved the Lord’s promises
in that regard to be true and worthy to be
trusted. The story amounted to this: To-
ward the close of the year, she had money
on hand, saved up for her year’s tithing.
But a strong temptation came to her not to
pay it into the Lord’s house then, but to use
it for much needed clothing, food and fuel
for the comfort of her dear children. For
some days she weighed the matter carefully,
turning it over and over in her mind, when
a new and unexpected hardship fell upon
her, intended, it seemed, to make her yield,
if possible, to the tempter’s persuasions not
to do her duty by paying her honest tithing.
The parties of whom she was renting the
home she occupied came and told her she
would have to move out, as the place was to
be sold. That appeared to cap the climax!
	To hunt new quarters and move at that
inclement season of the year, besides the in-
convenience and positive distress it must
occasion her and her children, meant loss of
time, days in which she could not be earn-
ing anything, and unlooked-for expenses
which she would have to meet. How could
she pay the little money she had for tithing
now? Once more the subject was being re-
volved in her mind, she examined it critical-
ly from all points, and fortunately her final
gaze rested upon the right side. She set-
tled the matter by asking and answering
these questions within herself:
	Who had provided for her and her chil-
dren during the past year? Who had
opened up her way and brought her oppor-
tunities by which she had earned the money
she had received, a tenth only of which she
had reserved to be given as an acknowledg-
ment of what had been granted to her?
Who, as an indulgent and loving Parent,
would be grieved if she, as a favored daugh-
ter, manifested a lack of faith and trust in
Him by selfishly withholding the little He
required her to return to Him, simply as a
bond of union, mutual interests and good-
fellowship between them?
	The one answer to these questions loomed
up bright in Aunt Lizzie’s mind. She knew
now where to look, whom to trust, what to
do.
	Rejoicing with gratitude that no greater
calamity had been permitted to fall upon
her notwithstanding her tardiness in yield-
ing obedience to a law of the Lord, she has-
tened to the proper place and paid her tith-
ing with a prayer in her heart that her
Father would accept it, and forgive her

[Column 3]
slothfulness. When she returned home, aft-
er settling her tithing, her children told her
their father’s brother-in-law, Uncle Fera-
morz Little, had sent word that he wanted
to see her. She answered at once the re-
quest of her friend and brother, Feramorz,
and went to see him. A friend and brother
indeed he proved to her at that time, one
that she knew the Lord raised up to help
her.
	“Uncle Fera” had heard of the sale to be
made of the property she occupied, and he
offered to advance the money for its pur-
chase as a loan for her and her children, al-
lowing them the privilege of paying him for
it when and as they might be able and de-
sirous of doing. The purchase was made,
and the blessings following it enabled Aunt
Lizzie and her children to pay Uncle Fera
every dollar of his money, and a just inter-
est on it, before the time spoken of in their
agreement had expired.
	A short time after Aunt Lizzie bore this
testimony in fast meeting, President George
Q. Cannon, who heard it, referred to it in a
council of some of the brethren, as one of
the most interesting and convincing testi-
monies in favor of tithe paying that he ever
heard given either by man or woman. One
of the brethren who was present when this
statement was made by President Cannon,
feeling it to be something his wife would ap-
preciate, told it to her. The wife in turn,
by way of encouragement and helpfulness,
repeated it to Aunt Lizzie.
	“Oh, I am so thankful to hear that!” was
Aunt Lizzie’s humble and grateful response.
“I have been so worried about that talk, for
fear I made it too lengthy.”
	It was at another of those dearly cher-
shed meetings, only last Sabbath, that we,
her sister workers in the Temple, last saw
and conversed with her; as, in her daugh-
ter’s arms, she passed suddenly and peace-
fully to her last, long sleep on Tuesday
morning. But we all have pleasant mem-
ories of kind and gentle words which she
spoke to us last Sunday. “How nice your
hat looks, you always wear becoming
things!” she said to one. To another, “Your
hair is so beautiful, and you’ve done it so
prettily!” These and kindred expressions
were her sweetly cherished, last goodbyes to
us, though we knew it not. When one of
us gave her a tender little embrace and
said fervently, “Bless you, Aunt Lizzie!”
from her ready, responsive heart came the
appreciative reply, “Oh! I do you feel that
way toward me? Do you really love me?
I am so glad! I would rather have love
from my friends than anything else they
could give me.”
	Dear Aunt Lizzie! She held rightful pos-
session of what she most prized.
	We all loved her!
				L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	All the New Jersey suffrage organiza-
tions will unite to open permanent head-
quarters in Newark. They will use for this
the money cleared by Mrs. Pankhurst’s lec-
ture, about $700.
	The Prime Minister of Austria has as-
sured a deputation of women from Bo-
hemia and Southern Austria that he thor-
oughly believes in the principle of woman
suffrage, and will use his influence in its
behalf.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MIDNIGHT REVERIE.
The hour was late; I sat alone,
	The hush of silence in the air;
Around my room were shadows thrown
	In brilliant lights, exceeding fair,
And strong emotions filled my soul,
	A retrospect on which I gaze
Like music’s power beyond control,
	Transfixed I sat as in a maze.
The years flew back, I was a child,
	I saw my mother’s smiling face,
And heard her voice in accents mild,
	And watched her movements full of grace.
The children playing round the hearth,
	The pine knots blazing high and bright,
And all the melody of mirth
	Resounding with the old delight.
The kettle swinging on the crane;
	And yet how far away it seems.
Sleigh bells are ringing in the lane;
	Dear me! how vivid are my dreams.
Why should such reveries be mine
	As I sit musing by the fire?
Around my heart-strings intertwine
	The joys that were my heart’s desire.
And looking backward o’er the years,
	Adown the byways of the past,
I recognize the hopes and fears
	With which my life was overcast.
Anon I climbed the woodland heights,
	And bathed me in the running brook.
Old Time has taken rapid flights
	Since first my name was in his book.
O memories beyond recall
	That chastened me upon my way,
Mixed with the wormwood and with gall,
	And yet my faith was bright as day,
That He who notes the sparrow’s fall
	Would not forsake me, though alone;
And this I know, He heard my call
	In supplication at His throne.
And what shall be in years to come?
	My muse has never told me yet,
But here in Zion there’s a home
	That's compensation for regret.
							E. B. W.


NEVER ALONE
We are never alone among Saints who are
	true,
Who’ve sincerely accepted “the Covenant
	New;”
Relationship tender and near we can claim
Because we have taken upon us His name.
For He, our Redeemer, when here upon earth,
Once was told she would see Him who gave to
	Him birth;
He wondrously answered—Oh, blest be His
	grace!—
Words whose comfort and promise time ne’er
	shall efface:
“He that now doeth my own Father’s will,
The same is my brother, the law to fulfill;
My mother and sisters also are they”—
For the soul’s sure contentment what more
	could he say!
If we keep His sayings He’ll own us and bless;
We’re His sisters and mothers, we cannot be
	less;
Oh, blessed relation to Him, our great King!
With hearts full of gladness His praises we’ll
	sing.
No title e’er given to beings of earth
Could mean the great splendor, the beauty
	and worth,
Of that divine kinship which He thus declared
With those who are worthy for “mansions pre-
	pared.”
Look up, sister, brother, be glad and rejoice,
For He hath made plain by His own precious
	voice,
That we are all kindred—then why feel alone,
Since we hope soon to meet Him and kneel at
	His throne!
					—Mary A. Freeze.


[Column 1]
			OPPORTUNITY.
	[Paper read at recent meeting of Utah Wom-
an’s Press Club by Mrs. Amanda M. Done.]
	I like the common symbol of the New
Year, the pure, fresh, joyous, hopeful babe,
with infinite possibilities, unbounded hopes,
and countless opportunities. It is a symbol
of the fact that with the New Year every
one is born again; the dead past is buried;
and the future with its endless vista of hope,
is once more opened to us. The babe is the
fitting emblem of the New Year and its
opportunities.
	It seems appropriate to make Opportunity
our watchword for the year just opening,
and for every future year. It is the birth of
opportunity that the New Year symbolizes.
it means the immortality of the soul. That
soul alone is dead that has no hope of a new
and potent opportunity. As the meaning of
the second death is a cessation of progress,
so the meaning of eternal life is endless op-
portunity to advance. The death we need to
fear is stagnation. The soul can never die
that seizes potent time, and makes present
opportunity the means of unending future
advancement.
	I know of no poem in the language more
hopeless, more resonant of buried possibil-
ities and departed hopes, than the oft quoted
one by J. J. Ingalls, entitled, “Opportunity.’’
For the sake of the demonstration of my
point, I will quote it:
Master of human destinies am I,
Fame, love and fortune on my footsteps wait.
Cities and fields I walk; I penetrate
Deserts and seas remote, and passing by
Hovel, and mart, and palace— soon or late
I knock unbidden once at every gate!
If sleeping, wake—if feasting, rise before
I turn away. It is the hour of fate,
And they who follow me reach every state
Mortals desire, and conquer every foe
Save death; but those who doubt or hesitate;
Condemned to failure, penury and woe,
Seek me in vain and uselessly implore—
I answer not, and I return no more.
	By way of contrast, and to give further
demonstration of the thought I wish to con-
vey, I will quote a poem written in answer
to the one-just given, by one of our western
writers, Walter Malone. Opportunity is
represented as saying,
They do me wrong who say I come no more
	When once I knock and fail to find you in;
For every day I stand outside your door,
	And bid you wake, and rise to fight and win.
Wait not for precious chances past away;
	Weep not for golden ages on the wane!
Each night I burn the records of the day;
	At sunrise every soul is born again.
Laugh like a boy at splendors that have sped,
	To vanished joys be blind and deaf and
		dumb;
My judgments seal the dead past with its dead,
	But never bind a moment yet to come.
Though deep in mire, wring not your hands
	and weep;
I lend my arm to all who say, “I can!”
No shamefaced outcast ever sank so deep
	But yet might rise and be again a man!
Dost thou behold thy lost youth all aghast?
	Dost reel from righteous retribution’s blow?
Then turn from blotted archives of the past
	And find the future’s pages white as snow.
Art thou a mourner? Rouse thee from thy
	spell;
Art thou a sinner? Sins may be forgiven;

[Column 2]
Each morning gives thee wings to flee from
	hell,
Each night a star to guide thy feet to
	heaven.
The sublime line of the poem,
	“At sunrise every soul is born again,”
is the embodiment of hope and real oppor-
tunity. It gives to the struggling individual
a new lease of hope and life; and relegates
to oblivion the idea that an opportunity
missed spells hopelessness and despair. We
live too much in the past. The dead issues
of the past have too much of our attention
and our life. The thought that goes back-
ward except for momentary retrospect, to
gain a new and more substantial grasp on
the future, is a thought wasted, or worse
than wasted. The thought that dwells on
the present and projects itself into the fu-
ture, is the thought that is pregnant with
great hope and future possibility, that gives
birth to deeds of courage and strength and
sublime accomplishment.
	Our opportunities are countless and of
infinite variety. The giving of a cup of cold
water to a little child, is a priceless oppor-
tunity; and one that shall in no wise lose its
reward. The giving of a hopeful look and
a cheering word to one that thirsts for en-
couragement, is a blessed opportunity that
offers itself recurrently every day. The
lifting up of the hopeful, cheerful counte-
nance, to beam on the saddened face of sor-
row and bereavement, is one of our precious
opportunities. Not the giving alone to those
who may return the gift with interest; but
the giving of sunshine and greeting and
joyousness and hopefulness to the souls that
sink in poverty and hide in obscurity, and
pine away for just the visit or the word
with which more fortunate souls are sur-
feited.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	“The ballot needs woman more than
woman needs the ballot.” This was the
keynote of the address given by Dr. Roy K.
Flannagan, director of sanitary inspection
for the Virginia State Board of Health, be-
fore the Equal Suffrage League of Nor-
folk, Va., the other day.
	During a recent debate on woman suf-
frage in Hampton, Iowa, the speaker for
the negative, in making the good old “wom-
an-do-not-want-it” argument, asked every
woman in the room who would use the vote
if she had it to rise. To his manifest dis-
comfiture, practically every woman present
instantly sprang to her feet.
	Mrs. Joseph Johnson of London, Eng-
land, declared that women would not throw
their whole hearts into Christian service un-
til they were recognized by men on a com-
mon equality.
	The Ohio Woman Suffrage Association
is soon to open headquarters in Columbus,
at the Chittenden Hotel. Mrs. Rachel Fos-
ter Avery will speak for the Columbus suf-
fragists in January.
	More women’s votes were cast in Los An-
geles at the recent election than the whole
number of votes cast at the last presidential
election in the State of Mississippi. Mis-
sissippi has about five times the population
of Los Angeles.


36			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent
		
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., evfery day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City. Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-	DECEMBER, 1911


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	To those who love the Christmas season
of joy and festivity there comes an appeal
for greater things than eating and drinking
and making merry. It is good to give and
blessed to receive, and yet there is some-
thing more precious still; it is the Christ
spirit that would make sacrifice for others,
the sublime charity that enters into the soul
of men and women, that loves all humanity
in the spirit of the great Master, who when
He was upon the cross cried, “Father, for-
give them for they know not what they do.”
	There is at present too much ostentation
and show about Christmas, and it has be-
come more or less demoralizing instead of
uplifting in its tendency. Exchange of
courtesies of a simple and unaffected nature,
greetings and congratulations, tender and
truly sympathetic, are ever acceptable, and
we should treasure these as jewels of the
brightest lustre.
	It is hardly possible to conceive, much less
to depict in words, the rich blessings that
have come to mankind through the birth and
ministrations of the Savior.
	“Gladly we sing on the Christmas eve
	Of the Babe that was born so long ago,
	And of Mary, the mother so sweet and pure,
	And of all the sorrow she lived to endure
	In the days of the wand’ring to and fro.”
	We should show by our good works that
we do appreciate the advent of our Lord
and Master into this world. When Jesus
said unto Peter, “Lovest thou me?” there 
was depth of meaning in His words; and to
emphasize His meaning He repeated His
words, “Lovest thou me?” And the in-
junction that followed, “Feed my sheep,”
was indeed significant of the love He felt for
those who needed the bread of life. We
cannot all minister as our Lord did but we
have within us what will help by word or
deed those who are weary and heavy laden;
and in our organizations we should culti-
vate and cherish the charity that feels for
“others’ woes” and minister to their wants
in so far as it is possible.
	The Relief Society in the various wards
throughout Zion, and indeed everywhere in
the world where the sisters are organized,
do try to attend to the wants of the needy
and afflicted and to scatter deeds of kind-
ness and shed rays of sunshine and hope
upon the pathway of life in the true spirit
of love.
	From our knowledge of Christmas fes-
tivities, England surpasses all other coun-

[Column 2]
tries in its picturesque and successful cele-
brations of this happy occasion. The char-
acteristic display upon the streets as pre-
served in word painting by those who have
in early life taken part in the songs and
festivities, the general music and display of
color and its accompaniments, is quite be-
yond description on paper: it must be seen
and heard to be effective. To be candid, it
is quite impossible to do the thing except at
Christmas time when the true Christmas
spirit is in the atmosphere and all hearts are
touched with the overflow of vitality that
bubbles forth in bursts of merriment and
joyousness. There is evidently such gayety
in the air that it intoxicates the brain of all
those who are susceptible to the influence
that uplifts as it were the humor of the
people at Christmas time. The feelings and
emotions, with the touch of human kind-
ness, that pervade the home and the family
circle at Christmas time instil a general
tenderness throughout all the village or
town. There is so much of goodness in the
workaday world that holiday times are wel-
comed more joyously than would be possible
perhaps without Christmas.
	After all, the celebration of Christmas
promotes and accomplishes far more good
than evil, even though folly and extrava-
gance are indulged in to a great extent.
Hospitality and the renewal of friendship’s
ties; the meeting together of families—all
these things make for that peace and unity
which is most desirable. Nothing in life is
more to be encouraged among friends and
kindreds than good fellowships, and the
coming together socially has the tendency
to eliminate ill feeling and to develop the
more excellent qualities of the heart and
mind that are latent in our souls, and to
create a desire for the higher aspirations
which produce harmony and lift us above the
petty weaknesses in ourselves or in others.
Good cheer is always enlivening and when
the feast is ready and grace is said, then
smiles, jests, and merriment prevail, and
after that, what more? Old songs are sung
and stories told, and fond recollections un-
veiled. Thus the soul is feasted.
	And so we say, “Christmas brings glad-
ness and joy.”


[Column 1]
			THE ROSE.
[Image of a rose]
	Undoubtedly the author of this exquisite-
ly tender poem of passion and sentiment has
entered, as it were, into the very heart of
nature and the philosophy of life.
	There is a richness and depth of feeling
in the poem itself, that cannot be expressed
in words, and is apparent only to the soul
of one who has the appreciation of heights
and depths, of joys and sorrows, of mortal
life, verging, as it were, upon the spiritual
and the unknown.
	The true poet and wise philosopher drink

[Column 2]
deeply at the hidden fountains of the eter-
nal spring, the source of wisdom and
knowledge of the infinite.
	Poetry and song are gifts of the highest
order heaven has bestowed upon human
beings; and where they are combined with
art, the possessor is assuredly favored with
what is termed artistic temperament.
	One is at a loss to express the thoughts
and emotions that come involuntarily to
one’s mind when reading this delicate and
gracefully written poem—“The Rose.”
	The rose itself suggests, we naturally
think, lovers in a garden of roses. A sa-
cred thought:
“Of love triumphant, love’s exhaustless pain,
Behold the rose, a symbol and a sign!
Let no rough hand, with vandal touch, profane
The Rose whose beauty makes its life divine.”
	We would scarcely dare to think of writ-
ing a poem about roses after reading Al-
fred Lambourne’s verses on the rose—they
are so beautiful.
	The story of the rose, its meaning and
the sentiment it suggests, and almost ex-
presses in itelf, thrill one to overflowing,
and kindle within the poetic fire that make
one desire to drink freely at the Pierian
spring.
“The Rose from all this beauty takes a part,
While now Life’s deepest passion rules the
	Hour,
Now opens to the Light its fragrant Heart
The wondrous Richness of the perfect Flower.”
	It is impossible to give a good idea of
this marvelous poem unless one had time to
study it well; but Utah may well be proud
of the book, so perfect in every detail that
it would seem impossible to find any fault
either in the poem itself, its setting or its
finish from type to cover.
	Mr. Lambourne has contributed some of
the choicest literature that has ever been
produced in the state of Utah. All of his
books have been carefully written and hand-
somely published, and make a valuable col-
lection for any of the several libraries in
the state.
	He certainly possesses the true genius of
Poetry and though born in a foreign coun-
try, our own America may well be proud
of his writings. Had his life been spent in
England, where there is more of history and
romance than in America, he might perhaps
have won the distinction of poet-laureate to
the king or queen.
“Yes, now the Rose, the wonder of the Rose—
The Summer’s Queen that lists the Summer’s
	Choir,
Now paid the Debt that Love to Beauty owes
And in the Heart, the One Immortal Fire!”


NOTICE.
	We are again constrained to remind
agents and subscribers that an immediate
and complete settlement of all outstanding
accounts is urgently desired. Changes that
are in contemplation with reference to the
Exponent make it necessary that these busi-
ness details be attended to; and patient as
we have been in the past, and still feel to be,
our friends will consider it not improper, we
trust, to be asked now to assist in closing up
properly and in a business way every possi-
ble account. The response to our recent re-
minder has been quite gratifying; and in
thanking our friends for this, we earnestly
request them to continue the good work,
and to let us hear from them as soon as pos-
sible.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HISTORY OF THE Y. L. M. I. A.
	A distinct and valuable contribution to
local literature is made by the general board
of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Association in their recently published “His-
tory of the Y. L. M. I. A.,” from the pen of
Susa Young Gates. The quaint beginnings
of the mighty movement among the daugh-
ters of Zion now crystallized in their great
and efficient organization are vivacious-
ly described; and matter for grateful
thought is furnished by a study of the un-
folding and development of this now far-
reaching and glorious work. The history is
brought down to the year 1910, and in addi-
tion to the main narrative, which for com-
pleteness and accuracy seems to leave noth-
ing to be desired, there is a brief resume of
the inception, progress, official changes and
present status of the association in each of
the stakes of Zion; these as well as the gen-
eral history are copiously illustrated with
portraits and places of interest. Not the least
valuable pages of the volume are those at
the end of each chapter, devoted to biog-
raphies, not only of those who have been
officially identified with the association, but
also of those veteran sisters whose motherly
interest in and devoted labors for the
younger women have made their names
household words. We are not aware of any
other source from which so much informa-
tion of this kind may be sought. Finally,
the lively and earnest style represents the
author’s best vein, and the critical revision
which committees of the general board gave
the manuscript insures an almost absolute
accuracy as to names, dates and events.
The book should be in every Church li-
brary, and in every home where there are
young people.


LITERARY NOTES.
	For those interested along lines of char-
ity work, no more interesting and instruc-
tive book could be found than “Twenty
Years of Hull House,” by Jane Addams,
the founder and guiding spirit of that won-
derful institution.
	The book is simply and charmingly writ-
ten, beginning with the early life of the
author, telling somewhat briefly, though
clearly, of her early surroundings, educa-
tion and impression, and leading the mind
gradually to the beginning of her life-work.
Then the story plunges almost instantly
into the midst of this great work, just as
she herself, after her prolonged prepara-
tion, finally folind herself engaged with all
the intensity of her soul in the work of
lifting up humanity in the endeavor to bring
brightness into the dark lives of the aged
poor, ambition to the downcast, health to the
afflicted, education to the ignorant and hope
to all. The introduction of settlement work
among the foreign mixed element of the
city of Chicago was a venture worthy the
truest soul and the success of this work is
the admiration of all classes and an exam-
ple of detail and generosity worthy to be
followed in every large city.
	The book, while fascinating as a fairy
tale, preaches a sermon of love and sacri-
fice such as is seldom found in the world,
and proving that somewhere there are those
who follow the admonition of the Master,
to love their neighbor as themselves.
	“Regeneration,” by Rider Haggard, is


another fine book on sociological work. The
book tells the story of the achievements of
the Salvation Army in England, describing
minutely the shelters, industries and differ-
ent homes operated by these untiring work-
ers, the followers of Gen. and Mrs. Booth,
among a class of unhappy, unfortunate and
sunken human beings seldom reached by the
efforts of other organized charities.


MME. MOUNTFORT IN PASADENA.
	We republish from the Pasadena Star, of
Jan. 4, vivid notes from Madame Mount-
fort’s lecture given in that city. She gave
this same lecture in full dress, with all the
equipments, to an appreciative audience in
Barratt Hall, this city, on the evening of
December 27, the lecture being under the
auspices of the General Board of the Y. L.
M. I. A. The Star says:
	“Clad in the full white camel’s hair robe
of a Palestine shepherd, with historical rod
and staff, musical pipes, slings of the type
used by David in the slaying of Goliath,
shepherd’s bag and necessary contents,
Madame Von Finklestein Mountfort, a na-
tive of Jerusalem, gave a brilliant exposi-
tion of the ‘Shepherd’s Psalm’ last evening
at the First Methodist church. An impos-
ing presence, dramatic ability and deep
feeling for spiritual things made the ‘shep-
herd’ of the evening a most impressive one.
Madame Mountfort did not confine her line
of thought to the twenty-third psalm though
that was the inspiration for many illuminat-
ing references to other portions of the Scrip-
tures through which the shepherd idea runs
like a silver thread. Especially effective
was the story of the ‘Ninety and Nine’ when
the hunt for the lost one, down in the gorges
and up the mountain steeps, the calling and
coaxing in true shepherd fashion, ended in
the finding of the lamb. It was from ac-
tual experience that Madame Mountfort
spoke, and she knew the weird and thrilling
songs and calls of the shepherd, ‘for she had
lived in the land’ most of her life and many
a time had been with the shepherds on the
plains of Palestine or on the steep moun-
tain-sides.”
	Madame Mountfort’s visit to this city
recently was a very great pleasure and sat-
isfaction to her many old friends, who re-
call her former visits to Utah during the
nineties. She made her headquarters at the
Hotel Utah, where she received her old
friends, and gave several lectures in differ-
ent churches and meeting houses as well as
in the Tabernacle on Christmas Sunday,
Dec. 24, on the nativity of Christ. She was
clad in full, oriental dress of white, and
made a most striking appearance. Her de-
scription of Mary, the mother of the Savior,
and of her coming to Bethlehem with Jo-
seph, and the birth of the Babe, were all
given in a most graphic manner. Her ser-
mon must have made a deep impression on
the congregation. Mme. Mountfort herself
is certainly one of the most celebrated wom-
en of the world at the present day, and has
a most wonderful personality. At the great
international council, held in London in
1899, she represented the countries of the
far east, and was listened to with rapt at-
tention while giving the status of women
in those far-off lands.


CLARA BARTON IS 90.
	On December 25, Miss Clara Barton,
founder of the American National Red
Cross Society, was showered with greetings
and good wishes in honor of her 90th birth-
day.
	Although feeble from her illness early in
the year, Miss Barton was able to celebrate
the day with relatives and friends who spent
Christmas with her at her home in Glen
Echo, Md.
	Miss Barton has probably been the means
of relieving more human suffering than any
other person in the United States. Like
Florence Nightingale, she has been a life-
long advocate of equal rights for women.
in an address given at the May Festival
of the New England W. S. A. some years
ago, Miss Barton said:
	“I believe I must have been born believ-
ing in the full right of woman to all the
privileges and positions which nature and
justice accord to her in common with other
human beings. Perfectly equal rights—
human rights. There was never any ques-
tion in my mind in regard to this. I did not
purchase my freedom with a price; I was
born free; and when, as a younger woman,
heard the subject discussed, it seemed sim-
ply ridiculous that any sensible, rational per-
son should question it. And when, later,
the phase of woman’s right to suffrage came
up, it was to me only a part of the whole,
just as natural, just as right, and just as cer-
tain to take place.
	“And whenever I have been urged as a
petitioner to ask for this privilege for wom-
an, a kind of dazed, bewildered feeling has
come over me.
	“Of whom should I ask this privilege?
Who possessed the right to confer it? Who
had greater right than woman herself? Was
it man, and, if so, how did he get it? Who
conferred it upon him? He depended upon
woman for his being, his very existence,
nurture and rearing. More fitting that she
should have conferred it upon him I
	“Was it governments? What were they
but the voice of the people? What gave
them their power? Was it divinely con-
ferred ? Alas! no; or they would have been
better, purer, more just and stable.
	“Was it force of arms—war? Who fur-
nished the warriors? Who but the moth-
ers ? Who reared the sons and taught them
that liberty and their country were worth
their blood? Who gave them up, wept
their fall, nursed them in suffering, and
mourned them dead?
	“Was it labor? Women have always, as a
rule, worked harder than men.
	“There is, once in a while, a monarch
who denies the right of man to place a
crown upon his head. Only the great Je-
hovah can crown and anoint him for his
work, and he reaches out, takes the crown,
and places it upon his head with his own
hand. I suspect that this is in effect what
woman is doing today. Virtually there is
no one to give her the right to govern her-
self, as men govern themselves by self-made
and self-approved laws of the land. But in
one way or another, sooner or later, she
is coming to it. And the number of thought-
ful and right-minded men who will oppose
will be much smaller than we think and
when it is really an accomplished fact, all
will wonder, as I have done, what the objec-
tion ever was.”—The Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	We, the sisters of the Granite Stake Relief
Society, have been bereft of our beloved coun-
selor, co-worker and friend, dear Sister Mary
P. Young.
	Her life was an inspiration—a life devoted
to the good of others, to the up-building of
those with whom she labored. She was an ex-
emplification of all that is pure and beautiful
the sunshine of every circle in which she min-
gled. A glorious woman, a noble soul.
	The memory of her sweet life, her deeds of
faithfulness, will ever linger with us.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her bereaved husband and children,
and pray our heavenly Father to bless them,
and comfort their hearts in this hour of afflic-
tion.
	Be it further resolved, that we present a copy
of this memoriam to the bereaved family, that
a copy be recorded in the minutes of our Relief
Society, and that one be sent to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
	“Sister, thou wast mild and lovely.
		Gentle as the summer breeze,
	Pleasant as the air of evening,
		When it floats among the trees.
	“Dearest sister, thou hast left us.
		Here thy loss we deeply feel;
	But ’tis God that hath bereft us,
		He can all our sorrows heal.”
				Emma S. Woodruff,
				Lenora T. Harrington,
				Katherine H. Brockbank,
					Stake Presidency R. S.
			OBITUARY.
	Sister Mary Pratt Young departed this life
at Salt Lake City, Oct. 25, 1911. Funeral serv-
ices were held at the Forest Dale chapel on
Sunday, Oct. 29, at 1 p. m., Bishop James Jen-
sen presiding. Appropriate musical selections
were rendered by the choir and Bro. Charles
R. Pike, who sang feelingly, “I know that my
Redeemer lives,” and “The Rosary.”
	Remarks were made by Elders Nephi Jen-
sen, Geo. M. Cannon, President Frank Y. Tay-
lor and others, who testified eloquently to the
love and esteem in which the deceased was
held. The floral offerings were numerous and
beautiful. Interment in city cemetery.


A PIONEER WOMAN PASSED AWAY.
	Sarah Ann Sargent Martin died at her
home in Wilson, Utah, October 25th, 1911,
after only a few days illness.
	She was born at Newbury, England, De-
cember 18, 1836.
	In 1851, the father, then a widower, and
his five children, having embraced the gos-
pel, sold their lovely home to come to Utah.
After a sea-voyage of thirteen weeks, they
prepared for the trip across the continent.
After furnishing ample means for crossing
the plains to Mr. Kelsey, the elder in charge,
they started up the Missouri river by steam-
boat, but here their real troubles began.
The “Saluda” was blown up and Mr. Sar-
gent was later found three hundred feet
away with every remaining cent stolen from
his dead body. The baby boy was never
found, and those left were terribly bruised
and burned.
	They were taken care of until recovery
by a kind family, who wanted to furnish
them means to return to their old home, if
they would give up the gospel. But their
dear father’s teachings held sway and they
hunted up Mr. Kelsey. He would only
give them an old ox team and one wagon.
	After their arrival in Salt Lake City, they
were destitute, and their trusted housekeeper
left them. Sister Martin, the oldest and
then only seventeen, was taken severely ill
of typhoid fever, but it was a case of work I
or starve, and she had to go to work before
she was recovered.


In 1855 she met and loved John Martin
and three weeks later was married to him.
Together they suffered all the hardships of
early pioneer life. Their home was burned
by the U. S. troops sent to wipe out the
“Mormons.” Locusts destroyed their crops
and they had to live on “greens” for weeks
at a time. Indians frightened them, and
hard work was their constant portion be-
cause they must raise and make their clothes
as well as their food.
	Sister Martin was the mother of twelve
children. She has been an active worker in
the Church. Since the organization of a Re-
lief Society in her ward in 1878, she has
been at its head. She was counselor to the
president until her death, then she took that
responsibility in ’97 and carried on the work
until a fall which crippled her necessitated
her resignation, only a short time before
her demise. Her release did not break her
enthusiasm and she still kept up her help-
ful visits to the poor or to the sick.
	Sister Martin was wrapped up in the
service of others, and her reward here was
the love and respect of those who knew her.
	She is survived by her venerable hus-
band, six children, forty-seven grand-
children and one sister, Louisa Harris, the
mother of Judge Harris of Ogden; as well
as a host of friends won by her ever hopeful,
amiable disposition.
					DRUSILLA HOLMES.


[Column 1]
ANOTHER WARD PRESIDENT PASSES
				ON.
	Just before the Christmas-tide we laid
away our beloved President, Elizabeth J.
Davis in a profusion of roses and carna-
tions. All the earth was covered with a
soft mantle of snow. The day was beauti-
ful, and the fragrant flowers seemed typical
of the life of this noble woman, which had
been pure and beautiful, full of the “charity
that never faileth.” Sister Elizabeth has
indeed been a Mother in Israel. Her kind,
inspirational voice, sweet smile and cheerful
disposition won all hearts. When she
crossed the threshold of the distressed she
seemed to know intuitively what was
needed, and how assistance might be of-
fered without offense to the most sensitive.
	She was a promoter of harmony and be-
came a power for good wherever her hands
touched. It was her privilege to be asso-
ciated in Relief Society work with both
Maria and Elizabeth Nebeker and with Ra-
chel Whipple. She also labored under M.
Isabella Horne, Clarissa S. Williams and
Harriet B. Harker, in the Salt Lake Stake,
and has been recognized as a type of the
best ward Relief Society President.
	Sister Davis, whose end, without doubt,
was hastened by her overweening care for
the poor and distressed, was taken while in
full possession of her power and ability in
a very active service. A few days longer
would have brought her fifty-ninth birthday,
for she was born Dec. 23.
	Her native land was England, where she
was baptized in 1866, and six years later
came to “Zion.” In 1874 she was married
to James B. Davis, in this city. Her hus-
band, one daughter, and three sons survive
her. She had buried three children during
her life.
	Her only daughter, Elizabeth, was called
to hasten home from her wedding tour in
California, and though she made every ef-

[Column 2]
fort to reach her mother’s side before death
came, she was too late.
	Elizabeth J. Davis was devoted to her
husband, home and children, as well as to
the Relief Society of the Twenty-second
ward, in which capacity she labored over
twenty years. The members of the ward
feel in her taking off a personal loss. The
ward meetinghouse was therefore filled to
overflowing at her funeral, and loving trib-
utes were paid to her memory by Bishop
Alfred Solomon and others. A powerful
discourse was delivered by Judge Booth of
Provo. Bishop Alvin Beesley gave a touch-
ing expression of his great appreciation of
the life and works of the deceased in be-
half of the distressed, and urged the mem-
bers of the ward to emulate her generosity
and interest in the feeble, sick, and poor. Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne represented the Gen-
eral Board of Relief Society and the Twen-
ty-second ward organization and Mrs. Net-
tie D. Bradford spoke for the stake offi-
cers. The music was choice and touching.
Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang “Ave
Maria” and Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward
rendered, “I know that My Redeemer
Lives.” Bishop Alvin Beesley acted as ac-
companist.
	The Relief Society officers had charge
of the funeral services. 
		MARTHA J. WILLEY, Secretary.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	For those who are not fortunate enough
to own a fine roasting pan, it will be a com-
fort to know that a paper bag for roasting
purposes may be purchased at your grocer’s
for a nominal price that serves the purpose
equally well. The dressed fowl or roast or
rolled steak or chop after having been prop-
erly wiped off with a damp cloth, is sea-
soned with pepper and salt, dredged with
flour and placed within the sack and the
end carefully closed. Place on the oven
grate and cook the required time. With
this convenience no basting is required, the
juices are retained, and the roasting is per-
fectly done.
	Following are some timely and well prov-
en recipes:
	CREAM SALAD DRESSING.—6 teaspoonful
sugar, 1 of mustard, of salt mixed to-
gether; add to this 2 well beaten eggs and
p2 cup vinegar; cook over boiling water un-
til thick as rich cream; when cold, add 1 cup
of cream, preferably whipped. This dress-
ing is served on any vegetable but for fruit
salad, omit mustard and use lemon juice in
place of vinegar.
	SALTED ALMONDS—Blanche 1/4 lb. Jordan
almonds by pouring boiling water on them.
Put one-third cup olive oil in small sauce-
pan and when hot put in one-fourth of the
almonds; fry until delicately browned, stir-
ring to keep almonds in motion; remove
with a skimmer and drain on brown paper,
sprinkled with salt.. Repeat until all are
fried.

	Uncle Sam: They are sure to get the
vote soon, anyway, Santa, and I say make
it a Christmas present. John Bull may
keep his womenfolk down as long as he can,
but I want “Peace on earth, good will to
men.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	THE BUSINESS OF HOME MAKING.
	[The following interesting paper on the above
subject was read before a recent meeting of Par-
ents’ class instructors in the Sunday School union
meeting of Pioneer stake. While there are some
allusions and suggestions that may be deemed of
local application, there is so much of interest in
the paper that we are pleased to publish it as
read.―Ed.]
	The subject as given in the Juvenile In-
structor for discussion in the Parents’ class
for the coming month offers a wide and
varied field, treating as it purposes to do
with the selecting of a building spot, the
building of the home, the exterior and in-
terior arrangements, the decorating, the
furnishing, the surroundings, the outhouses
and fences, and even the sunshine and the
shade. It would certainly have been wiser
in my opinion had the stake supervisors se-
lected an architect, or at any rate a man, to
present this subject today to the present
company; at least some one who could give
good practical suggestions, rather than one
who had lived in many homes but had yet
the pleasure in anticipation of building a
house; for the only houses I have built are
air castles which, like the morning-glory,
fade in the glare and heat of the sun.
	The subject is “Home-making,”—and the
outline is “House-making;” between which,
though I don’t wish to be critical, there is
a vast difference. The former, though of
the humblest architecture, may be a heaven-
ly place, while the latter, though a palace,
may hold not one of the attributes of home.
Charles Dickens aptly portrays the home
thought when he says: “The man of high
descent may love the halls and lands of his
inheritance as a part of himself, as trophies
of his birth and power. The poor man’s at-
tachment to the tenement he holds, which
strangers have held before and may tomor-
row occupy again, has a worthier root
struck deep into a purer soil. His house-
hold gods are of flesh and blood; he has no
property but in the affections of his own
heart, and when they endear bare floors and
walls, despite of toil and scanty meals, that
man has his love of home from God and his
rude hut becomes a solemn place.”
	After all, whether the house we occupy
is humble or magnificent, built of wood or
stone, is our own or rented, the home spirit
depends on the conduct of its inhabitants.
If every builder of a home puts into it the
best of himself, cheerfulness, contentment
and love, he has builded better than he
knew.
	The Latter-day Saints are home-makers
and home-builders. The business of home-
making is a part of their religion, and or-
ganization. When as a weary, footsore band
of pilgrims they entered these valleys, one
of the first steps taken was the apportion-
ment of lands to the heads of families for
homes. As perhaps you all are aware, each
city block contained ten acres and an acre
and a quarter was allotted each family. It
was always the policy of the Church in the
founding of cities to build rather close for
the sake of protection against the wild ani-
mals and savages, and also for social and re-
ligious purposes; and though now the dan-
gers of the desert are lessened, it is still
Church advice to the people when settling
new parts to make the homes close and go
back and forth to the farms.
	The people were necessarily agriculturists

[Column 2]
but notwithstanding the fact that they were
farmers the homes were built close together, 
and wisely, too. When the immigration in-
creased, the counsel was to scatter out and
build more homes, so what was at first the
founding of a city in a few short years be-
came the building of a state. In order to
encourage and assist those sent farther away
to take up land and build homes, members
of the general authorities were called to
different localities to instruct the people and
to make them better satisfied in building
away from the center stake of Zion. Thus,
men who had acquired fine building sites and
had located their families in some degree of
comfort, “pulled up stakes” again, in obedi-
ence to the word of those in authority, and
moved into other parts. Almost all the
members of the quorum of the Twelve were
called to do this. For instance, Franklin D.
Richards, who owned the property just
south of Second South on West Temple,
near where the Dooly block and other fine
business property now stands, was called to
Weber Co., where he figured largely in the
building up of Ogden and neighboring
towns. Lorenzo Snow built and owned the
commodious and once handsome home after-
wards occupied by Hiram B. Clawson on
Third East and South Temple streets, and
was called to build up Box Elder county.
Ezra T. Benson built the large, stately home
on the corner of Main and South Temple,
afterwards known as the “Wells Mansion,”
and now the site of the Templeton and other
business blocks; he went to build up Cache
county. Charles C. Rich, a large property
owner in the northwest part of town
founded and led in the building of Bear
Lake county. Orson Hyde went to Sanpete,
Erastus Snow to St. George and Arizona,
Amasa Lyman to Millard county, and
George A. Smith to Iron county, all show-
ing that the acquiring of land and building
of homes has ever been considered an es-
sential part of the religion of the Latter-
day Saints.
	An up-to-date architect would perhaps
think some of the homes of early days,
erected by those in position to build large
houses, perfect monstrosities on account of
the size of the rooms, the thickness of the
walls, the depth of the window seats, the
broad beams, close studding and high ceil-
ings; still there is an air of stability and
comfort and ease about these old homes,
which the modern home does not possess.
However, it is a fact that from many points
of economy, both in means and labor, these
old colonial houses are relegated largely to
the past, and the modern home, with small
compartments, low ceilings, few if any
stairs, and conveniences of steam, water or
air heat, hot and cold water with bath and
toilet and oftentimes laundry, all under one
roof, are much easier on the house wife and
really more cosy and home-like, if not so
pretentious and imposing.
	The choosing of the site for the house de-
pends altogether on the piece of property
one happens to own, or is able to purchase.
One thing certain, we cannot all live on the
“east side,” nor on the high lands; but if
we happen to have to build and live, as most
of us here do, on the “west side,” and near
the low lands, it is well to choose the high-
est part of our land on which to build our
homes, thus giving a pleasant grade for the
yard from the door to the street, besides
being better from a sanitary standpoint

[Column 3]
since all drainage would be from the house
and not towards it. The house should be
built as high and as far above the ground as
the features of the site and the means of the
builder will allow, especially where the land
is inclined to be marshy and damp, as is the
case in a large part of this stake, to avoid
malaria and kindred diseases to which such
lands are subject.
	It seems to me very hard to tell in the
Parents’ class just how to build a home.
One might have in mind a home that would
cost three or four thousand dollars or more,
with hardwood floors, plate-glass windows,
sideboards, dressers and bookcases built in
the walls to save space, and few if any of us
be able to follow any such plans. I believe
thoroughly in every one striving to own a
home, and in that home to put his best
thought for points of convenience and com-
fort and happiness for himself and family;
to care for that home with all his best en-
deavor; to have it clean and wholesome
and neat; and if in our discussions in the
Parents’ class we can throw out suggestions
to help each other build better, purer, safer
and more beautiful homes, let us do it.
	The ideal home to me, as I said in the
beginning of this article, depends on the oc-
cupants, not on the architecture. However,
an ideal house is a very different thing, and
in this matter tastes differ so widely that it
would be difficult to describe one. Some
general principles, however, might be car-
ried out in the building of any home: first,
to have the house and all surroundings as
sanitary as possible for the sake of the health
of one’s family; plenty of light and sunshine
in the rooms help in this matter; simplicity
in the wood work—if hardwood is too ex-
pensive, the natural soft wood stained is
much easier to keep clean than painted, as
are also plain mouldings instead of orna-
mental casings and skirtings; pantries are
not any longer considered a necessity, and
the housewife finds the kitchen sideboard
much more handy and labor saving; she
also prefers that the sink be not too far away
from the stove, and the small kitchen is very
much more popular. Most women will tell
you that if they could only have three rooms,
they would want one of them to be a bath-
room; and indeed this is a necessary luxury.
The sleeping porch is also very popular even
on the smallest houses. It is believed to be
the means of curing some diseases and pre-
venting others; in that respect it is economy
to build one, for health is wealth, and what
was once held to be only a fad has become
now a most desirable accessory to the mod-
ern home. The furnishings of a home are
altogether a matter of taste and knowledge
of one’s means. Good books, pretty pic-
tures and like accessories are inexpensive
and add largely to the beauty and pleasure
of a home, and it is very easy to contrive
pretty dressing tables and other furnishings
out of rude material if one possesses a little
ingenuity and good taste. Where the fam-
ily means allow, of course the furnishings
can be as elegant as one chooses. However,
“Are you not surprised to find how inde-
pendent of money peace of conscience is and
how much happiness can be condensed in
the humblest home? A cottage will not
hold the bulky furniture and sumptuous ac-
commodations of a mansion; but if God be
there a cottage will hold as much happiness
as might stock a palace. 			A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BENSON STAKE.
	The Benson Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in Richmond Nov. 9, 1911.
President Rebecca Rawlins presided, and
welcomed all present and hoped the Spirit of
the Lord would be in our midst during our
conference. Reports from the different
wards were then heard. A paper written
by Ida Rogers, on religion in the home, was
read by Maud Roskelley.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates, of the General
Board, spoke of the work the sisters have
to do and the work they are doing. We
must face the storm in order to do our
duty; spoke of Temple work; we must learn
to estimate time that we may attend to our
spiritual duties.
	Sister Edna May Davis, of the General
Board, spoke of the need of being prayer-
ful in order to perform our duties. We must
strive to have patience with our children and
especially the wayward ones.
	Afternoon Session.—After the opening
exercises Sister Mary J. Harrison made a
few opening remarks hoping we would have
an enjoyable time together. A very able
paper was given by Hannah Larson on
“Temple Work.” A song was nicely ren-
dered by Sister Isabella Holladay and chor-
us, after which Linnie Fisher of Oxford
recited a piece entitled, “The Old Home.”
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke of simplic-
ity in dress when entering the Temple—that
we should pay more attention to dressing
the mind than to dressing the body.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children to read, more
especially to read the Bible. She asked the
mothers to read to their little ones that they
might form the habit; also to teach our chil-
dren to pray—to pray with our boys, so that
when they grow older they will benefit by it.
	Brother Samuel Roskelley urged the sis-
ters to put into practice what they had
heard; after which the benediction was of-
fered by August S. Schow.
				OLIVE HARRIS, Sec.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the Ninth
Ward meeting house, Dec. 14, 1911, Coun-
selor Zurviah G. Eardley presiding, Presi-
dent Anna S. Musser being excused on ac-
count of being in quarantine. After the
opening exercises, the roll was called, each
ward being represented. Sister Eva M.
James then favored us with a solo, and the
Tenth, Thirty-third, Liberty and Emigra-
tion Wards were reported to be progressing
favorably and in the line of their duty.
Sister Lillian Malquist rendered a piano
solo.
	Sister Alice M. Horne of the General
Board addressed the conference, giving
good instructions, speaking words of en-
couragement, and urged all present to sub-
scribe for the Woman’s Exponent.
	The solo entitled “Sometime, Some-
where,” was rendered by Sister Eva James,
after which Elders C. W. Symons and T.
H. Woolley of the High Council spoke to us
for a short time, stating their interest in
Relief Society work, the influence for good
derived from it, encouraged us to seek in-
spiration from our Heavenly Father, and
expressed their desire to render what as-
sistance they could for the cause.

[Column 2]
	Sister Elizabeth Crismon of the General
Board addressed us for a short time.
	Counselor Mary Hodgson spoke on the
Christmas spirit and encouraged us to be
cheerful givers.
	After the closing exercises conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock. During the noon
recess, lunch was served to all present.
	Confernece reconvened at 2 o’clock.
After the opening exercises, and a solo en-
titled “Jerusalem,” by Sister Nellie Scon-
berg, Counselor Z. G. Eardley gave greeting
and welcomed all present, afterwards intro-
ducing Elder LeGrand Young, who lec-
tured to us on the “Advancement of Wom-
en,” which was instructive and much en-
joyed. A letter was read from the General
Board concerning the storing of wheat, also
one about Richie’s Primer of Sanitation.
	Elder C. W. Symons spoke to us on the
organization of the Relief Society and its
early history, and asked the blessings of
God on all our efforts.
	Counselor Eardley made a few closing
remarks, thanking all who had helped to
make our conference a success. After a
solo by Sister Eva James entitled “God be
with us till we meet again,” benediction
was pronounced by Sister Vilate Barrows.
Adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.
		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Conference of the Oneida Stake Relief
Society, Nov. 12, 1911, President Louisa B.
Benson presiding. There were present Susa
Y. Gates and Edna May Davis of the Gen-
eral Board, Stake President Jos. S. Geddes,
Counselor James Johnson, members of the
High Council, and other leading brethren.
After opening exercises, Counselor Hannah
Mickleson made an address of welcome.
The roll call showed eleven members of the
Stake Board present, and nine societies rep-
resented. The treasurer’s report was read
and approved. The Societies of Preston
Third Ward, Fairview and Oxford were re-
ported as in satisfactory condition, the
teachers working earnestly, the mothers’
work doing much good, etc.; after which
Sister Susa Young Gates spoke as follows:
	“When we do our duty under adverse
circumstances it helps to strengthen our
character. The strongest men and women
among us have been brought up through ad-
versity. You have one condition here not
found elsewhere, that is, the young moth-
ers are members and workers. This is as
it should be. The Y. L. M. I. A. is a step-
ping stone to the Relief Society. Every
branch of our work in the home, or in any
and every walk of life should be founded on
the stone of the Gospel of Christ. Mothers,
bring up your children on the diet of the
Scriptures. Feeding the poor, visiting the
sick, clothing the naked, etc., are good, but
not enough for Latter-day Saints. We must
live our religion. As women of Zion we
must honor our husbands if we would bring
up our children in the path of the Gospel.
The Relief Society is the only auxiliary or-
ganization that came under the direct super-
vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith.” (The
speaker read Section 25 of the Doctrine and
Covenants, a revelation given to Emma
Smith.) “You Relief Society officers must
work in harmony with your Bishop, as the
Priesthood is the head; it is the power dele-
gated by God for the government of His
Church, and we must honor His Priest-
hood.”

[Column 3]
	Piano solo, by Letitia Pauli.
	Edna May Davis made a few remarks on
proper dress.
	Benediction by Dora Geddes.
	At the afternoon session, the stake choir
furnished the singing, and three more ward
Societies were represented.
	President Louisa B. Benson reported the
Societies of the stake as being in a very en-
couraging condition; spoke on the necessity
of teachers being prompt in visiting; and
asked the husbands to assist their wives to
come to the Relief Society meetings.
	Piano solo, by Letitia Pauli.
	A paper, “Synopsis of Mothers’ Work,”
was read by Secretary Phebe A. M. McNeil.
	Duet by Leonard and Mabel Moore.
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke as follows:
	“It is truth that counts, and I desire to
speak nothing but truth to you. One lesson
we should learn is to do good, not from a
desire for reward but from a love of truth
and righteousness. Today is the day to pre-
pare to meet the Lamb. The vanity of the
world and love of dress are leading many
of our young people astray. Parents should
teach their children the importance of go-
ing to the Temple to be married and thus
start life right. Tight short skirts, with low
neck and short sleeves do not betoken a
modest girl and should never be worn. Mod-
esty is a better adornment than jewels. We
make a serious mistake when we clothe the
body and neglect the mind—the spirit part
of us.”
	The next speaker, Sister Susa Young 
Gates, said:
	“My father (President Young) used to
say ‘Praying will make a man stop sinning,
and sinning will stop a man from praying.'
Life is so short—it is but a span between
the life before and the life to come, that we
have no time to spend in club work. Every
thought, every action of our life should be
to progress in the truth and sowing germs of
eternal truth in the minds of those whom we
meet. Real intelligence is the knowledge of
God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. When
we do not pay an honest tithing we rob our-
selves.” Spoke of Temple work and the
blessings we enjoy in being privileged to
work therein for the redemption of our
dead. “May the Lord help us to be Latter-
day Saints in very deed, and to be true ear-
nest Relief Society workers.”
	Choir sang an anthem, and the benedic-
tion was pronounced by President Jos. S.
Geddes.
		PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL, Sec’y.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	The branch of the National Woodrow
Wilson League just formed at Stanford
University was limited to men. But 13 of
the young women students came in a body
and asked admission. According to the
San Francisco Bulletin, a law student point-
ed to the by-law excluding women.
	“Oh, change it,” chorused the girls.
“We’ve changed the constitution of the
State of California, so it won't be hard for
you to change your by-laws!”
	Thereupon the young men not only
changed the obnoxious by-law, but elected
Miss Mary Felita Smith of Fresno vice-
president. They are now boasting that Stan-
ford has the first political club of men and
women ever organized at an American uni-
versity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
