Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1911						No. 2.


CONTENTS. 
Lillian M. Hollister.................................	9
Missionary Experiences..Lydia D. Adler	10
Hester Golding’s Testimony....................
	.......................Annie Wells Cannon	11
Relief Society Reports: 
	Wasatch Stake.................................	14
	Ogden Stake...................................	14
	Alpine Stake...................................	15
Notes About Women...............................	9
Notes and News...................................10,	11
Editorial: 
	Active Service................................	12
	Miss Alice Louise Reynolds...........	13
	Editorial Notes................................	12
	The Lund Home..............................	13
Poetry: 
	The Hermit Thrust......Mary Bailey	9
	Heredity.........Ella Wheeler Wilcox	9
	A Challenge..John Hendrick Bangs	11
	A Message from the Spirit World 
		............L. L. Greene Richards	14
	Good Enough for Me..B. S. Goodwin	16


THE HERMIT THRUSH.
There was a sunset and a wooded hill,
There was a summer evening and a hush,
Then clear from out the gold-[-]lecked depths so
still,
There came the wondrous soul-song of a
thrush.
And I was there to listen. Now the years
Are many since that evening and that song;
Thrushes make music now for other ears,
And other thrushes to that haunt belong.
By my sweet bird sang an immortal note,
The far call of a homesick heart for Heaven,
And, though the time and distance are remote,
Through all the weary waiting years at even
There comes a hush at sunset, 'mid the stress,
The rush of labor with its fret and care;
I seem to hear from out the wilderness,
That plaintive bird-song that was like a
prayer!
By Mary Bailey.
—From Dumb Animals.

HEREDITY.
There is no thing we can not overcome;
Say not thy evil instinct is inherited,
Or that some trait inborn makes thy whole
life forlorn,
And calls down punishment that is not mer-
ited.
Back of thy parents and grandparents lies
The Great Eternal Will. That, too, is thine
Inheritance, strong, beautiful, divine,
Sure lever of success for one who tries.
Pry up thy fault with this great lever—Will.
However deeply bedded in propensity,
However firmly set, I tell thee firmer yet,
Is that vast power that comes from Truth’s
immensity.
Thou art a part of that strange world, I say,
Its forces lie within thee, stronger far
Than all thy mortal sins and frailties are,
Believe thyself divine and watch and pray.
There is no noble height thou canst not climb;
All triumphs may be thine in Time’s futurity;
If, whatso’er thy fault, thou dost not faint or
halt,
But lean upon the staff of God’s security.
Earth has no claim the soul can not contest.
Know thyself part of the Eternal Source;
Naught can stand before thy spirit’s force;
The soul’s Divine Inheritance is best.
—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.


[Column 1]
		LILLIAN M. HOLLISTER.
	The sad news of Mrs. Hollister’s death
was indeed a severe shock to her many
friend among the women workers of the
world. Of the women’s societies of Utah, es-
ecially the organizations affiliated with the
National Council of Women, Mrs. Hollister
was a staunch friend and defender. Pos-
sessed of wonderful foresight, discretion and
wisdom, she had the gift to distinguish be-
tween the true and the false, and to appre-
ciate earnest endeavor with the courage to
extend her influence and encouragement to
all women in the cause of good.
	Lilliam M. Hollister, President of the
National Council of Women of the United
States and Supreme Commander of the
Ladies of the Maccabees of the world,
passed from life to that “Beautiful Isle of
Somewhere,” Friday morning, August 4,
1911, at her summer home, Lilley, Mich.
She was one of the country’s most power-
ful workers, both in the interests of women’s
organizations and women’s fraternal circles,
and there are few women’s societies in this
broad land which either through her lec-
tures or writings have not become familiar
with her charming personality. She was
born in Milford, Mich., and that state has
ever been her real home, though she has 
traveled extensively in many lands. She be-
gan her education when a child of four
years, walking a mile to the little red school
house. She had an excellent musical educa-
tion which training served her well in later
life, when as a public speaker she charmed
her hearers with her beautiful voice. Her
career was ever onward and upward—a
busy, unselfish, helpful life from school girl
to teacher, from teacher to superintendent,
—then writer, lecturer and philanthropist.
She compiled a number of very useful books
on parliamentary law, which are used large-
ly by the women’s clubs and organizations
throughout the country and was considered
one of the very best parliamentariens among
the women of the country.
	Mrs. Hollister was also associated with
the W. C. T. A., the Women’s International
and State Press Associations, Federation of
Women’s Clubs, Woman’s Relief Corps,
Order of the Eastern Star, Rebekahs and
the Degree of Honor. She has been sev-
eral times a delegate to foreign countries
from these different organizations and has
spoken before large assemblies in London,
Edinburg, and other European cities. She
was also one of the thirteen women chosen
to speak in the Lafayette Opera House,
Washington, D. C., on the 15th of Febru-
ary 1900, the occasion being the 80th anni-
versary of Susan B. Anthony’s birth.
	Mrs. Holister was a woman of command-
ing presence, with a fine, intellectual face
and a most charming personality. Some of
those who knew her worth and loved her 
best have sent us the following sentiments
for publication:
	Flo Jamison Miller, Cor. Sec. N. C. W.,
writes:

[Column 2]
	“A great woman has fallen, something precious
has been removed to a brighter world. The why
we know not, we dare not question. ’Tis enough
for us to feel and know that ‘God’s finger touched
her and she slept.”

	Think of her still as the same, 
		I say, 
	She is not dead, she is just away.”

	The Rev. Anna Shaw says—
	“I cannot express my sorrow on hearing of the
death of Mrs. Hollister. She was a woman who
had done more good works than any one dreamed 
of. She demonstrated the financial integrity and 
ability of women as few women have had the
opportunity to do. She has been loyal in every 
position in which she was placed.”

Mrs. May Wright Sewall—
	“I cannot grieve for Mrs. Hollister herself, but
I grieve for her friends and associate workers.”

	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Vice President
N. C. W.—

	“The news of Mrs. Hollister’s death is one of
the greatest shocks I have ever had.”

	There are many other expressions from
prominent women testifying to the great
worth of Lillian M. Hollister and the loss
sustained in her death by the women work-
ing along the different lines for the uplift 
of humanity. To the women of Utah she
was a true friend, and we mingle our tears
with those who loved her, knowing that one
of God’s chosen daughters has been called
home.—A.W. C.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	Thirty-four women are included in the
venire of 129 jurors drawn for the Septem-
ber term of the Supreme Court in the City
of Tacoma, Wash.

	At the convention of the Catholic Total
Abstinence Union in Scranton, Pa., a few
days ago, the Rev. Father Cassidy came out
strongly for woman suffrage, declaring
that the temperance cause needed the wom-
an vote.
	In reply to newspaper statements that
her official duties were unsatisfactory to
her, Mrs. Wilson, Mayor of Hunnewell,
Kansas, on August 13 wrote the National
Suffrage Association as follows: "The re-
ports recently published in the newspapers
about me and my attitude toward the work
in which I am engaged are unjust and ab-
solutely false. I am quoted as saying, 'Pol-
itics is not a woman's game.' I have never
made such a statement, nor have I arrived
at that conclusion. As to my resigning, I
have no intention of so doing; neither have
I any desire for such action. I am in a fight
for higher morals and a better city gov-
ernment, and I am confident that I shall be
victorious. The men of Hunnewell who
belong to the whisky and gambling ele-
ment are opposing me in every possible
way, but I shall stick to my post and earn-
estly endeavor to accomplish some reforms
that are greatly needed here."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
	What a refreshing Conference that was!
The words of commendation and encour-
agement from Presidents Platte D. Lyman
and Henry W. Naisbett brought joy and
comfort to our hearts. A yellow fog en-
veloped London, and it hung in clouds
overhead, in the Clerkenwell Hall, where
the Conference was held. Some of the
missionaries lost their bearings, on dis-
mounting from the 'busses, as the fog rolled
up in high banks over the streets and side-
walks. The second day it cleared up, then
one could scarcely stand or walk; in fact
we slid along on the slimy deposit the fog
left behind. This unsafe condition pre-
vailed, until a heavy rain washed the streets
and sidewalks clean.
	It was a time of rejoicing to meet our
friends and fellow laborers from all over
the Conference, and learn how they were all
getting along, and how the work of the
Lord was prospering. Then the sweet
voice of the Spirit poured out in Priest-
hood meeting, made the four or five hours
so spent speed swiftly away.
	After the Conference closed, the new
headquarters, 97 Farleigh Road, was dedi-
cated; the prayer was offered by President
Naisbett. In our own home at last, in a
most desirable quarter of the city, and a
place where even the Queen could be prop-
erly welcomed! Was it not glorious? I was
transferred from Watford to Stratford,
only a three half penny ride from the Con-
ference house, and given a companion, be-
side my little daughter May, which pleased
me very much. After a couple of days spent
in sight-seeing, we went to our field of la-
bor. The great Exposition of 1900 was on
in Paris, and the missionaries who wished
it were granted a couple of weeks' absence
to attend it. A party was to form in Lon-
don with whom we were to go, so we
awaited notice to join them. We crossed
the English channel in the night (and such
a lot of sick people!) Landing at Dieppe
we took train for Paris, reaching there
about 9 a. m. We went directly to a
house in the Latin Quarter, which was rec-
ommended by some of our friends. The
large rooms contained two or three beds,
but they were single, with down beds and
pillows. It was such a nice place! How
I rested in that bed! The first nice one I
had slept in for months. Although the
beds were so nice we could not stay in them
long, for we must be on the go early and
late. There was the city and surroundings
to see, beside the Exposition, where we
planned to go several days. The thought
of that good bed was often with me during
those days, how I wished I could take it
with me over to London, for the English
beds are proverbially hard, with heavy blan-
kets, instead of down quilts. Besides we
found no fleas there which stuck closer to us
than a brother in England, adding so much
of discomfort to our already uninviting lot.
"See Paris and die" it has been said, but we
say, "See Paris and live to tell of its beauty
and splendor." World Expositions may
come and go, but none will ever be like the
one at Paris. Gorgeous, chaste, wonderful,
exquisite, such an one, as only the French
people know how to bring together, for
beauty of effect. We have seen Exposi-
tions both before and since then, but none
are like unto it.
	The grand buildings of the nation pic-

[Column 2]
turesquely situated on either bank of the
Seine, their national colors flying from
many points;; the little steam tugs, that
carried us from so many points to it, the
revolving side walks, never seen before, car-
rying passengers without ever stopping, to
all points of the grounds, and the illumina-
tions on the river, which made it look like
a scene in Wonderland, all were enchanting,
enthralling! This, too, was the land of
Napoleon and Josephine. Reminders of
them are everywhere. Napoleon crowning
Josephine, a bewitching, immense painting
in the Louvre, brought the story vividly to
mind. To it we returned, time and again.
On the steps of the throne, Josephine kneels,
while Napoleon places the crown upon her
head. The power that gives can take
away. He bestowed the crown upon her;
afterwards he snatched it away from her
throbbing brow, heeding not her supplicant
form, or out-stretched, trembling hands.
The world calmly looked on while that
tragedy was enacted, thinking the end justi-
fied the means. But did it? "My Josephine,
my Josephine!" is softly sung by river and
breeze; the very ground speaks her name
at every step. He died alone on St. Helena;
then, not to be feared any longer, the
French people brought back his dust, to
sleep beneath a world-famed tomb. But he
is imprisoned still, while Josephine sleeps
beneath tree and flower, in God's glad sun-
shine, where the birds sing her name and
the night winds sigh above her. Is it any
wonder, that after visiting Versailles, Notre
Dame, Napoleon's Tomb, the Arch of Tri-
umph, the Madelaine, beside the other glo-
ries of Paris, that as we saw the river illu-
mination for the last time, and surveyed
the scene from the top of a 'bus, we ex-
claimed, "the only city we ever left with
such feelings of regret."
	After this delightful change, Miss Farns-
worth and myself devoted ourselves, early
and late, to our labors in Stratford The
branch numbered about seventy saints, the
largest I had labored in. After tracting
hours (when there were no meetings to at-
tend) we visited every one of the saints,
as soon as might be, in order to become per-
sonally acquainted with them all.
	In Watford I had come in contact with
three ministers, one of whom, on looking
at the tract I presented, and seeing "Mor-
mon" on it, indulged in a triade about our
faith and people, that amounted to an on-
slaught. "You know the doctrines you are
spreading are true, do you?" he asked. "I
do." And you have come across the water
to expound them here to us?" "Yes!"
"Then if you know they are true, stay
quietly in your own house and be satisfied."
I assured him that when one was convinced
of the truth he should warn his neighbor;
that was why I was there. As he quoted
passages from the Bible he walked up and
down his hall, rolling the poor little tract
into a ball, sometimes striking it within the
palms of his hands. He asked my name,
where I lived when at home, and many
other things, at the end of each answer
striking the inoffensive tract, and looking
defiantly at me. I did not have much op-
portunity to talk, but when the interview
ended, and I was outside the gate, I stood
still, resting against it for some moments,
to gather strength to proceed; then realized
that I had had an encounter with Lucifer
(for he had talked to me through this man).
I now had a clear understanding of what

[Column 3]
he thought of me, and his fervor, for I felt
as weak as though I had been in a personal
encounter. While I was still there, the
minister opened the door he had banged
shut, whether to let out the offensive Mor-
mon odor[---]o get fresh air after the bat-
tle I did [---] know. But this I did know.
Lucifer was a dread personality, and I
feared his great power. What a master he
would be—how he would chain his ser-
vants!
	At another house, that same afternoon,
another minister took the tract from my
hand, then seeing "Mormon" upon it,
slammed the door, saying, "Go home and
take care of your wives!" Opening the
door slightly, he looked at me and discov-
ered I was a woman.
	Another minister I met at his gate; he
was just going in with a tin pail of milk in
his hand. "Will you accept of a gospel
tract to read?" and presented one to him.
"Mormon?" he asked. Being answered in
the affirmative, he said, "Have you left one
of those in my house?" "No." "Well, I
will not let you leave one there. I forbid
you!" "Will you take the responsibility?"
I asked. "Yes." "Then remember," I
said, "that I have brought the gospel tidings
to you and yours, and you have forbidden
me to leave the message at your home.
Do you take this responsibility upon your-
self?" "Yes." "Well, I must be content,
as you are the master of your own family
and home, and have taken upon y[-]urself
the responsibility of rejecting it.
LYDIA D. A[-]DER.
(To be Continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr writes: “The
solution of our divorce problem lies in se-
curing a better relation between men and
women in every department of life. It is
an anomaly in this republic that there
should be any distinction on account of sex.
It is absurd that women should receive
lower wages than men for equal work per-
formed or equal service given. It is unfair
to deny women their share in public house-
keeping. It is unjust to tax them and at
the same time refuse them citizenship.
American women are as well educated, as
intelligent, as moral, as conscientious, and,
within their opportunities, as efficient as
American men. Once this is fully recog-
nized; once the last vestige of sex prejudice
and sex contempt vanishes from custom and
from the statute books; once the same stand-
ard of morals is recognized in society as it
is in law; once it is made at least as easy
for women as for men to earn an honorable
living; once marriage on absolutely equal
terms is made possible—no moral or phys-
cal advantage on the side of the husband,
no parasitism allowed on the part of the
wife—then it will be perfectly safe to at-
tach a divorce coupon to exery marriage
certificate, with permission for both par-
ities to tear it off at will.”
	Juarez, Mexico, claims to be the only
city in the world in which the direction and 
control of the city parks have been turned
over completely to women, a board of eight
women managers having exclusive control
of them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A CHALLENGE.
Come, Worry, let us walk abroad today;
Let’s take a little run along the way:
I know a sunny path that leads from Fear
Up to the lovely fields of Wholesome Cheer.
	So, Worry, come along!

We started on our way, I and my Care.
I set the pace on through the springtime air.
But ere we’d gone a mile poor Worry stopped,
Tried hard to catch his breath, and then he
	dropped,
		Whilst I went on—
An easy winner of that Marathon.

And since that day when vexed by any fear,
When Worry’s come again with visage drear,
I’ve challenged him to join me in that race,
And found each time he could not stand the
	pace.
	—John Kendrick Bangs in September Ainslee’s.


[Column 1]
	HESTER GOLDING’S TESTIMONY.
	Hester Golding was a Mormon girl, born
and raised in Salt Lake City. When she
graduated from the High School she had
a very strong desire for a college education
but her father’s family was large and his in-
come small, so she had to curb her educa-
tional ambitions and face the reality which
so many boys and girls have to meet, of
providing for herself and assisting with the
home expenses. A good girl and well
trained, was Hester Golding, and she easily
won friends among her associates. She nev-
er, however, relied wholly on her own
strength or resources, but through her re-
ligious training she had learned to have
explicit faith in something beyond this life,
and her trust in her Heavenly Father was 
so sincere and unfailing that to Him she
ascribes all the success she ever had in life. 
	Notwithstanding the many calls made up-
on her and the low wages paid her for ser-
vices in the art department of the big store
where she found employment, she never
ceased to feel that she might yet acquire
further knowledge and opportunities if she
tried. She saved something every week
denying herself of course all the extrav-
agances and many of the necessaries that
other girls enjoy so. At the end of two
years she set out for Chicago to study art
in the university of that city.
	When Hester left the loved family and
her home city, where almost every face she
met was familiar and every building and
turning in the street was home, and where
all nature seemed to be a part of her self,
for in the evenings she would linger on her
way home from work to watch the beauti-
ful colors of the setting sun thrown on the
peaks of the purple hills to the east, and the
great red and golden clouds floating above
her and build wonderful air castles of her
future work, she little dreamed of the lone-
liness that would possess her when in that
great, busy city. She walked along the nar-
row streets walled in with towering busi-
ness blocks like great dark canyons, (not
broad city thoroughfares,) with the hurrying 
and bustling and whirling of a throng of 
strange figures, not one familiar face, not
one kind greeting. No desert could seem
more lonely, and the poor girl soon found
she must needs muster all her strength and
all her faith to enable her to stand it. She
also soon discovered that living at home
with mother was a very different thing to 

[Column 2]
living in a hired apartment, and that where
formerly little services were lovingly given
by mother now an exact payment was re-
quired for everything, and soon the poor
girl saw her meager savings big as they
looked at home would not be sufficient to
carry her through the first years’ work in
this strange city.
	Hester determined, therefore, to seek em-
ployment, believing she would be able to
work and still have some hours to give in a
home or an office if only some such position
might be found. Seeking employment in a
strange city is very different to seeking it at
home, and not having any references she
found homes closed to her, and her first at-
tempt in answering an advertisement for
girls led her into a trap from which she
escaped almost miraculously. Believing that
her guardian angel had helped her this time,
she made an earnest prayer to be led by the
Spirit of the Lord and to have discretion
where to go.
	The morning after her unfortunate en-
counter she read in the “Times” an ad for a
young woman to care for costumes and ap-
parrel, connected with an art school, and
she decided to make one more attempt.
	This morning she had no trepidation, no
fear, she had prayed earnestly and placed
her trust in God, and she went out armed
with perfect faith. When she reached the
building she was ushered into a waiting
room, where twenty women had preceded
her, applying for the position. She took a
seat near the door of an inner office and
watched while several applicants were ush-
ered in, and then passed out again evidently
not giving satisfaction. She observed
while sitting there the different types and
wondered what particular questions would
be asked and what different peculiarities
would be noted by the questioner. She felt
herself something different to them all and
though it might seem egotistic she felt this
difference, though undefinable, was some-
thing better. To her surprise she was called
before many who had been there when she
arrived, and something whispered, Give a
true answer to every question. She had ex-
pected to do this, but had thought the ques-
tions would refer to her ability and work,
whereas the great question was, Where are
you from? She might have evaded the 
straight answer and given the name and
street of her Chicago apartment, but remem-
bering the silent whisper, she promptly an-
swered, Salt Lake City. The typewriter in
the room ceased work, the bookkeeper
stopped his pen, there was not a sound heard
for fully two seconds, then the questioner
asked, Are you a Mormon? “Yes sir, I
am!” was the quick reply. And Hester
then thought, Well, I guess that ends my
interview, and her face, which at first she
felt had reddened by the consciousness of 
the steady gaze upon her, she knew had
turned pale, for her heart began to ache
with a fear of disappointment. But when
the questioner again spoke, she knew he
felt kindly, for he immediately said, I have
been in your city you call Zion, and I never
was treated so good in all my life, as among
you Mormons. Why they don’t consider it
any work at all to show a fellow all around,
let him hear the most beautiful music on
your wonderful organ, explain all about
your big buildings and refuse to accept a
cent for anything. What are you doing here
in Chicago, little girl? Studying art in the
university, and I need more means or I

[Column 3]
can’t stay the year out. I think I could do
this work in connection with my school.
“Why, so you can. Give your name and ad-
dress to the clerk and in the next room
Madam Moore will give you instruction as
to your work.”
	Hester afterwards learned that this place
was a department of the school she was at-
tending, and she was able to remain in
Chicago four years and take a degree in the
school of design and art, through having se-
cured this position. When she left her home
there were many friends who regretted her
leaving them, none more so than her as-
sociates in the costume department. When 
Hester refers to this experience it is with
greatest reverence, for she knows that her
Heavenly Father guided and guarded her
through those four years in the heart of a 
wicked city, and kept her pure in heart and
soul. 
	“Faith lights us through the dark to Deity.”
						ANNIE W. CANNON


NOTES AND NEWS.
	At a special meeting, held April 3, the
Corporation of the City of London passed
the following resolution: “We hereby pe-
tition Parliament to pass at the present ses-
sion the women’s suffrage bill now before
it that the Lord Mayor, together with the
other civic officers, go to present the peti-
tion to the bar of the House of Commons,
and that the reasonable expenses of the
Lord Mayor and the civic officials be de-
frayed from the borough fund.”
	Governor Shafroth is said to favor the
choice of a Colorado woman for Congress
if a fourth Congressional district is estab-
lished in that State. “We are bonud to get
the fourth Congressman,” the Governor is
reported as saying, in the Denver Express.
“Unless there is a constitutional obstacle,
and I know of none, there are women in
this State who could adequately fill the po-
sition.” Mrs. Katharine Williamson, Mrs.
Mary C. C. Bradford, and Mrs. Sarah Platt
Decker are all spoken of for the place.
	Colorado women will have to be reck-
oned with by the two old political parties in
the next campaign. They have started a
movement that has for its purpose the or-
ganization of a non-partisan party to force
the recognition of their political rights; al-
so to force the two old parties to nominate
good men and more women to public office,
as well as to bring about a more liberal dis-
tribution of patronage.
	It is but a poor standard of success that
is measured by gold and silver; a noble bear-
ing, a lofty brow, a kindly smile, a self con-
trol, clear eye, bespeaks a success that is
more real. The only victory worth making
is the victory over one’s self; the only real
success lies in the development of character
and insight; the only thing worth seeking
is the Soul; the only thing worth possessing
is the Truth; the only thing worth living for
is Love. And this is the greatest success—
to have ennobled your environment, to have
done good, to have given happiness, to be
happy; for Virtue alone wears a serene
smile, and Wisdom only is truly happy.—
Stanton Kirkham Davis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	AUGUST, 1911


[Column 1]
		ACTIVE SERVICE.
	This term, active service, is not so com-
mon as work, and perhaps means quite as
much, if not more, both terms are used but
the world needs practical self-helpfulness,
not in word, but in deed. The old saying,
Satan finds mischief for idle hands, is as
true today as it ever was, and really one
who looks around nowadays, sees many idle
hands, and inactivity that produces stagna-
tion. The complaint “out of work, no em-
ployment” is heard on every hand, and yet
there is always something to be done and
people can find work, if willing to submit to
conditions, or to make exertions in the right 
direction. However, no one can settle this
question for the world at large, but every
individual who perseveres can find some
sort of work, that is better than idleness.
	The cause undoubtedly of so much sin and
crime in the present day is because people 
are not willing to do the work that is not
agreeable, and yet any work is helpful and
will keep one in better condition physically
than idleness and inactivity, which is more
or less deteriorating. Life has many phases
and the world is full of opportunities, and
the idea that there is not work to be done is
preposterous.
	Women as well as men seem to have an
idea that a certain kind of work is beneath
them, whereas all work of whatever kind
well done is better than idleness. Certainly
one must put thought into the work however
simple the task. Do the work well no matter
how commonplace the position; make it as
genuinely important as possible.
	In the early days in New England when
labor was considered honorable, building
stone walls around the farm was quite the
fashion, and gentlemen (so accounted) were
proud of the walls built with their own
hands, when every stone put into the wall,
and there were acres and acres of these
walls, was taken from the ground with their
own hands; on purpose to clear the ground
so that vegetables, etc., could grow as well
as to protect one’s own land, but the stories
we could tell of these primitive doings would
fill pages of history; but today a stone wall
left standing is a historic feature in the
scenery to be admired.
	In the early days in the valley here in
Utah, there were some stone walls, and peo-
ple who were anxious to denounce Brigham
Young and his ideas of what was expedient
in those times, had a great deal to say about

[Column 2]
the high stone walls, that were built round
some of the homes and gardens in the city
of Salt Lake, but it gave men some work
to do, to pay for food for themselves, and
families; and it is far better and makes one
more independent to work for one's provi-
sions or supplies than to have it given in
charity. It is all right to disperse charity
to the sick and those unable to work, but
not to men and women, who can work for
their living.
	The Latter-day Saints have always been
taught that idleness was sin; the Bible
teaches it, and it is through active work that
prosperity comes, and also happiness. “There
is no excellence without labor” is true today
and always will be.
	There seems to be a spirit of unrest abroad
in the world, that is against work of any
sort, and it will bring distress and misery
unless checked in some positive way that
will compel the idler to work. Activity in
the strict sense of the word means temporal
salvation.
	Among many of the young people of to-
day, there is a desire to do as little as pos-
sible of any sort of work, and to have every-
thing made easy for them; and this erro-
neous idea is leading many into temptation
that will eventually end in destruction of
soul and body. The very thought is hor-
rifying: what can be done, to resist the
growth of this unrest, this tendency to idle-
ness that is sweeping over the land.
	Some people assert that it is only the ig-
norant classes that are shirking the duties
and responsibilities of life; but this is not
correct, it is prevalent among those who
have had good advantages; if girls who
are out of employment want positions they
are very much in the habit of asking if they
can use the piano, and have you such and
such conveniences, every sort of new in-
ventions and appliances to make the work
easy, instead of having an actual desire to
do the work of the household.
	Boys all want to be clerks and lawyers
and doctors and so on, and who is to till the
soil, intelligently, and when is the grain and
the vegetables and the fruits to come from
when agriculture is looked upon as an oc-
cupation unfit for our young men of the 
present age.
	Practical work, active service will be the
temporal salvation of our young people, and
one may say too the spiritual salvation as
well, if it can only be fostered and encour-
aged and insisted upon, too much excite-
ment lowers the tone of human life.
	The inordinate passion for finery in dress,
and in the home is a depraved taste. Sim-
plicity in all the details of living is what
will bring about a material change that
would be helpful in every aspect, and there
would be less sickness and ill health and
would most assuredly promote the prolong-
ation of human life, which is proper and
desirable.
	The tendency of the age is in direct ap-
position to that which is pure and virtuous
and upright. People feel they must have
extravagances, beyond their means, must
go into debt, must mortgage their homes,
and enter into all sorts of schemes, and
policies and run risks of all kinds, to keep
up appearances, instead of living within the
limit of what they can honestly earn and
pay for. One has no right perhaps to say,

[Column 3]
where the blame lies, but in many cases, it
is to be like other people.
	The children must be kept in school year
after year when needed at home, because
other families keep their children away at
school or in colleges, and the home is neg-
lected because the mother cannot carry the
whole burden. Disaster often follows and
the home is involved or the rent is over-due
and so the home is broken up, the parents
over-worked, and family life utterly de-
stroyed.
	The home is the center of all that makes
for the betterment of communities and 
countries—the primitive ideas of home life
in Utah when the people settled in this new
land, that each family have a small piece
of land on which to build a home, and have
a garden and orchard, if ever so small, was
ideal. Naturally as the city grew there were
changes made, but we can still find some of
 these very same places, that have not been
sold, and the descendants of the original
owners in possession. Naturally after three
score years and more, many wonderful
changes in places and circumstances must 
have taken place, and progress must make
new methods and new paths and open up
avenues for improvement along many lines,
yet one can still persist in some of the 
original ways of living; that were vastly
better for life and health, and soundness
of mind, and strength of body, and activity
of brain than the practices and methods of
the present time.
	To be sure one is out of poise of the times
if you preach economy or industry the cry
is “we must have a good time” and that to
the majority of people nowadays means go-
ing hither and thither, late hours, all sorts
of pleasures, (that end in pain) and no mat-
ter where the money comes from! The
prospect is appalling. To one whose mind
is in tune with higher things, it is very de-
pressing, and what can be done to arrest this
terrible unrest?
	The best remedy lies in active service of
some kind, keep the girls within the shelter
of the home; and the boys too as much as
possible, teach them that nobility of work,
that all service is helpful in life, if done with
a true purpose, and done well, and that obe-
dience to parents, and to proper authority is
not humiliating, but on the contrary tend to
preserve order in home life as well as in
neighborhoods, communities, and keeps so-
ciety and the world in harmony with the
conditions that prevail as instituted by the
Creator of all things, and apparent every-
where throughout the universe, above and 
below.

“Yet scattered here and there, we some behold,
Who can discern the tinsel from the gold.”


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	The officers and members of the General
Board of Relief Society have been kept un-
usually busy this summer. Most of the
sisters have spent a large part of the sum-
mer attending stake conference. At the
present time nearly all the stakes of Zion
have been visited, the few that have not held
their conferences are principally those near-
by, that can easily be reached by train, and
therefore be held later in the year.
	The sisters are certainly to be congratu-


lated on the good work accomplished. These
annual visits to the different stakes bring
the women of Zion into closer relationship,
and are the means of broadening and ex-
tending the work. The genial hospitality of
the people in their homes and the grateful
expressions of satisfaction and pleasure
manifested towards the visitors is much ap-
preciated by the ladies of the General Board,
and repays them fully for the sacrifice they
make in leaving their homes and giving their
time to this great Relief Society work. The
mutual friend livers and affection existing
between the sisters of the different stakes,
and those of the general board is largely
due to these visits. Being brought into
closer relationship and exchanging ideas, as
well as receiving instruction from those in
authority, is certainly beneficial and helpful
to those engaged in the work. It has not
been deemed advisable by the authorities
of the Church for the sisters to visit the
stake in Mexico on account of the inward
disturbances in that country, but aside from
that it is believed that before the close of the
year Relief Society conference will have
been visited by the sisters in every stake of
Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISS ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.
(First Utah lady to obtain a degree in Eng-
lish University.)
	Miss Reynolds whose full name is given
above has returned recently from abroad,
where she has been studying and has suc-
ceeded remarkably well and reached the
dignity of receiving a degree in an honor
which comparatively few American women
have ever obtained abroad. She is the first
from Utah to receive this reward of merit,
and the Utah women are certainly honored
in her successful achievement of this dis-
tinction.
	It is a well-known fact that our boys and
girls have, when studying in colleges and
universities in America, been quite success-
ful in any line of education as specialists or
otherwise which they have undertaken.
	The women of Utah will feel a pride in
the success of Miss Reynolds and will look
forward with fond anticipation to results in
her future pursuits of knowledge in the lines
of work wherein she has specialized.
	It has long been known among the peo-
ple of this state, that Miss Reynolds was a
brilliant scholar, and was doing excellent
work in the Brigham Young University.
And now we are justly proud that she has
been awarded this "high degree," from so
famous an institution as the London Uni-
versity. It is very well known how critical
these learned professors are, and therefore
we feel assured that Miss Reynolds has
"won her spurs" honorably and must have
been diligent in season and out of season,
or she could not have succeeded in meriting
the honor conferred. We are aware that
it is quite impossible to slight one's work
in those old and famous instiutions of learn-
ing.
	Miss Reynolds held the position of As-
sistant Professor of English in the Brigham
Young University at Provo for sixteen
years, and fianlly decided to travel through
some of the European countries and study

[Column 2]
in some of the famous institutions of learn-
ign in other lands.
	It is well understand that women students
at Oxford and Cambridge and other great
English schools are not granted a degree,
this is only done in the University of Lon-
don—therefore Miss Reynolds made choice
of that celebrated institution—and studied at
three of the many colleges of that Univer-
sity King's College on the Strand in South
Kensington and University College. The
courses she selected were special studies in
Tennyson, Arnold and Browning and a
course in higher criticism by Professor Ker,
a course in the romantic poets, by Guth-
keltch, and one in English history, by Pro-
fessor Polland. She also did research work
in the library of the British Museum, on
the history of the Tudor period and in the
life and works of Browning.
	Miss Reynolds it appears, had privileges
of social intercourse that are new to some of
us not familiar with English schools, etc.
	One very charming feature is a 4 o'clock
tea served in the women's rooms, and con-
siderable friednliness prevails during that
hour among the students. Chapel was an
interesting period, no one is admitted ex-
cept wearing the regulation costume. There
are many very new and interesting things,
that could be mentioned in connection with
Miss Reynolds' studies in these great old
English institutions and libraries—and it is
well for women who are desirous of gen-
eral information along literary lines to be-
come acquainted with these things from
those who have been among these wonderful
places and actually partaken of the uplifting
tendency of the higher and broader fields
of advancement and have come home to us
with the humility that is characteristic of a
true Latter-day Saint.
	Miss Reynolds has visited many of the
old cities on the continent, and we all know
travel is educational in the truest sense to
those who are at all observing, consequent-
ly the lady must have a mine of informa-
tion to impart to those who come within her
sphere of activity. She has been invited and
is expected to make an address during the
afternoon of the Relief Society Conference
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City,
early in October—the date not yet an-
nounced.


[Column 1]
		THE LUND HOME.
	How many women in the Church, I won-
der, know anything about the institution
known as the Lund Home. Shortly after
the years work of the Betterment Committee
—a work undertaken by some citizens purely
out of love for the youth of this city who
seemed to be just growing like weeds in big
gardens or undergrowth in some dense for-
est without discipline of any kind, without
care, and yet children of the state who. if
taken in hand by some one and guided aright
might become good and useful men and
women in the community, well. as I started
to say it was the conditions of these, shall
we call them wayward boys and girls or just
uncared for boys and girls that led some of
our thoughtful men to raise means and use
influence with the authorities to purchase a
large tract of land gaining a piece already
owned by the Church which had school
building thereon, and open a home for boys.
This home is kept up almost wholly by the
Church, and besides providing a home for

[Column 2]
these little fellows where the kindest atten-
tion possible is given them, it also affords
opportunity for work, school and play. The
only regret connected with the intsitution is
that enough people are not sufficiently inter-
ested to assist in this good work by contrib-
uting somewhat if ever so little towards the
place. A home such as this for children
should be made attractive with beautiful
pictures, good books, and pretty things so
far as possible and there are many people
no doubt who would be glad to give some-
thing of this kind to the home, if the mat-
ter was brought to their attention. While
the founding of this home was a beautiful
idea, one wonders why some such similar
place was not provided for little girls as
well. Don’t think that the boys are the
only ones necessary to save, and those who
know will tell you that it is much easier to
reform a boy who has gone wrong than it is
to reform a girl. Probably one reason for
this is that the boys are soon taken charge
of by the officers, while the girls inclined to
do wrong are left longer in the home where
the environment is anything but what it
ought to be.
	One of the women officers of the Juvenile
Court, when talking to a father about his
fourteen-year-old girl one day, was told by
that unworthy parent, that the only way to
deal with that girl was to take an ax to
her;” the lady replied, “No wonder your
little girl is delinquent when you speak like
that.” This same little girl was allowed to
remain in that home with that father and
the environment that such a parent would
naturally have in his home for two years,
and at the end of that time it became nec-
essary for the Juvenile Court to send her to
the State Industrial School, where she now
is an immoral degenerate. Perhaps had
there been a home for girls similar to the
Lund Home for boys, where she could have
been placed earlier, she might have been
saved. The work of the Big Sisters in try-
ing to reform and care for the girls after
dismissal from the Industrial Home, is most
commendable, but how much better it would
be could we save the little girls before the
Industrial Home becomes the only alterna-
tive, for after they have once been inmates
of that institution it is almost hopeless to
try to reform them. With the boys it is
different, they are in for petty thieving,
truancy, and delinquency and such offenses
and the reformation is not so hard, but with
education and proper training they leave the
Home wiser and better but the Superin-
tendent will tell you if you ask, and it is
known to be true, that almost every girl
there is immoral, and when she is discharged
she doesn’t as a general thing, care to re-
form, but in her maturer years prefers the
indolent rollicking life of the underworld
to the higher, better life of true woman-
hood. The blight is on her and she cannot
throw it off. Mothers, don’t your hearts
ache when you think of these poor girls.
Fathers, don’t you think a home should be
provided to save these little ones from sin:
God bless those who strive to help human-
ity in any way, but surely most of all those
who try to save humanity.
				ANNIE W. CANNON.


The much-coveted red ribbon of the Le-
gion of Honor has been won by Mme.  Le
Barillier, of Paris, who has acquired fame
as a poet and story writer under the name
of Jean Bertheroy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A MESSAGE FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD

Little Helen’s spirit speaks—
	List, oh mother, hearken!
“Here the sunny days and weeks,
	Nothing comes to darken.

“Tell our loved ones, on the earth,
	Not to grieve, so lonely;
In this new and heavenly birth,
	There is brightness only.

“Tell dear papa to be brave,
	Pure and noble ever;
So in life beyond the grave,
	We’ll be parted never.

“And our sweet Virginia May,
	(Precious little sister!)
While she prayed the other day,
	I drew near and kissed her.

“Tell her angels truly write,
	All she’s ever saying,
And they smile in such delight,
	When she’s humbly praying.

“Tell dear grandpa, kind and true,
	In my new position,
That to love and help him, too,
	Is, in part, my mission.

“Little children, every one,
	Aid in preparation
Of the great work being done
	For the world’s salvation.

“There were few things on the earth,
	I could do, if any,
Of real, lasting use and worth—
	Here I find so many!

“It was hard to part with you,
	We so loved each other!
But if you could have one view
	Of my new life, Mother—

“You would never wish me there,
	Dreading pain and sorrow;
Here I have no cross to bear,
	Joyous comes each morrow.

“Every day new pleasure brings
	Some new form of beauty;
We all do such happy things,
	Works of love and duty.

“Grandpas, grandmas, cousins dear,
	Hosts of friends and neighbors,
Are so kind and helpful here,
	Sweet are all our labors.

“Sweeter far than play on earth,
Blissful songs and gentle mirth,
	Work is recreation;
	Free from all temptation.

“And the joy of doing good
	Is such holy gladness;
Mother, if you understood
	You would conquer sadness.

“As you grow more reconciled,
	I shall oft be near you,
And the presence of your child
	Will uplift and cheer you.

“But through heavy clouds of grief,
	I’ve no power to reach you,
Cast them off, and find relief,
	Dearest, I beseech you!

“Sneak good words to some poor heart
	Which, like yours is stricken,
And the hope you thus impart
	In your own shall quicken.

“Let your hands be busy, too,
	Comforting some other;
And the Lord will strengthen you,
	Darling, sweetest Mother!

“Papa, mamma,—oh so dear!
	Jesus loves to bless you;
While your Helen hovering near,
	Yearns so to caress you.

“Visit oft the House of Prayer,
	Learn best ways of living;
Trust the Father’s loving care,
	Tender and forgiving.

[Column 2]
“Think not much of worldly wealth;
	Fleeting are earth’s pleasures,
But regard your strength and health—
	These are priceless treasures.

“Search the Scriptures, look aloft;
	Pray, your sins confessing;
Then you’ll feel my presence oft;
	Come with some new blessing.
				—L. L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The Wasatch Stake Relief Society Con-
ference was held in the Stake Tabernacle,
July 14, 1911.
	Morning Session, 10 a. m.—President
Joannah E. Jensen presiding. After sing-
ing and prayer. A chorus. German sisters
of the Midway Second Ward.
	Sisters Thomas and Edna May Davis
of the General Board were present, also
President Murdock and Jensen, High Coun-
selors; Robert Lindsay and Henry L. Mc-
Mullen and Patriarch Thomas Hicken pres-
ent.
	The general and Stake Relief Society offi-
cers were sustained by a unanimous vote.
Words of welcome from the President,
Joannah E. Jensen. Heber Third Ward re-
ported as being in a good condition, by the
president, Elizabeth Hicken. Midway First
Ward reported as being in an average con-
dition, by first counselor Emily Coleman.
The Stake reported as being in good con-
dition by the second counselor, Sophia Luke.
	Duet, “Love at Home,” Sisters Jenta
Murdock and Gladys Davis of Heber Sec-
ond Ward.
	Mother’s Work Lesson, “Home Influ-
ence,” given by Sister Mary L. Willes,
Heber Third Ward.
	Sister Anna R. Duke spoke on Relief So-
ciety work, trials of the Saints in early
days and the great blessings all are enjoy-
ing at the present time.
	President James C. Jensen spoke on the
duties of Relief Society mothers and the
eternity of the marriage covenant.
	Sister Edna May Davis, one of the new
members of the General Board, said she was
pleased to be with us, always responded to
the call of authority placed over her. We
each have a mission to perform. Be hum-
ble and prayerful. Spoke on duties of daugh-
ters to parents. Pure thoughts. Her wel-
come in our midst and love to all.
	President Joannah Jensen requested the
three Heber Wards, to care for the outside
wards and see that all had dinner. After
singing, “Marching Homeward,” and bene-
diction by Brother Robert Lindsay, session
adjourned.
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—Singing,
“Nay Speak no Ill.” Prayer, Patriarch
Thomas Hicken. Singing, “Come let us
Anew.” Reading, “Call of the Relief So-
ciety,” by Sister Isabell Penrod of Walls-
burg.
	Remarks of encouragement given by
Brother Henry L. McMullen.
	Vocal Solo, “‘Vale of Dreams,” Sister
Jennie Ross of Midway.
	Lecture, “Possibilities of Relief Society
Work,” Sister Annie Stevens.
	Singing, “If there is Sunshine in your
Soul.” Reading, “The Lost Word,” Sister
Lizzie McDonald, of Heber First Ward.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas of the General
Board said she was pleased to be here.

[Column 2]
Wanted all to appreciate the Relief Society
work and the advantages we enjoy at the
present time. Relief Society work is an all
round education within itself. Teach our
children the history of the Latter-day Saints.
Love and reverence for the pioneers. Home
life and its responsibilities. Be good wives
and mothers, for that is the greatest mis-
sion of woman.
	Duet, “There is Hope Beyond the Vale,”
by Sisters Lettie Jensen and Arbelia Har-
vey, of Center Ward.
	Timely and encouraging remarks by Pres-
ident Murdock. Sister Jensen thanked all
who had helped make the conference a suc-
cess.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction, Brother Robert Lindsay.
				Carlie C. Tidwell, Sec.

		OGDEN STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference held
in Relief Society Hall, Ogden City, July 19,
1911, commencing at 10 a. m.
	We were honored with a visit from Sis-
ter Emmeline B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
President of all the Relief Societies through-
out the world. Also Sisters R. B. Penrose,
Amy B. Lyman, and Edna May Davis, mem-
bers of the General Board, and Annie Wells
Cannon, President Pioneer Stake.
	President Sarah M. Taylor presided and
conducted the exercises, after exercises, roll
call and prelude, prayer was offered by Sis-
ter Sarepta E. Cowles. Congregation sang,
“Oh Ye Mountains High.” Minutes read
and approved.
	President Taylor gave a few words of
welcome and hoped the spirit of the Lord
would be with us that we might have a
profitable time. President Taylor of the
Fourth Ward, Counselor Jensen of the Sixth
Ward, President Grace McFarland of
Huntsville, President Rosetta Shaw of the
Seventh Ward and Annie T. Dee of the
Eighth Ward reported.
	President Margaret Dodd of Eden and
Counselor Cora Budge of Pleasant View,
each gave encouraging words of what Re-
lief Society work had done for them, and
were thankful they were permitted to work
in so glorious a cause.
	A duet was very nicely rendered by Sis-
ters Beatrice L. Tribe and May L. Hobson,
members of the Stake Board.
	Sister R. B. Penrose of the General Board
was the next speaker, was delighted to work
in the cause of Relief Society and urged
strict attention to attendance. Many are
not living up to the principles of the gospel,
and it is for the Relief Society to gather in
the stray children and look after the way-
ward boys and girls. The work is growing,
there are sixty-two stakes engaged in Re-
lief Society work and fifty-three branches in
Great Britain, and others out in the world.
Prayed the blessing of the Lord would be
upon this work.
	Congregation sang, “High on the Moun-
tain Top.”
	President E. B. Wells referred to the first
organization of the Relief Society in Weber
Stake which occurred thirty-four years ago,
when Sister Jane S. Richards was appointed
president, paid a glowing tribute to her.
There were seven sisters present in the con-
gregation who attended the meeting at the
time of the organization, which was effected
by President Brigham Young. “Every wom-


[Column 1]
an in the Church who is a mother should be
a member of the Relief Society, value your
membership, there is nothing greater in the
world than doing the work the Savior did in
visiting the sick and helping the poor. There
is no organization of women in the world so
great as the Relief Society. It is not only the
first for women, but the greatest because of
the value of the work done in saving souls.”
Referred to the work that is taken up in Salt
Lake in regard to the wayward girls out on
parole from the industrial school, the same
work will be taken up here if it is not al-
ready. Also referred to mothers work. The
lectures should be given as much as possible
by Relief Society workers. Spoke of the
Chautauqua as being educational and ad-
vised all that could to visit the “Round
Table.” Prayed the blessings of the Lord
would attend all that we may feel encour-
aged and full of joy.
	President Taylor invited all to remain for
refreshments and enjoy the Social Hour.
	Congregation sang, “Zion Stands with
Hills Surrounded.”
	Adjourned until 2 o’clock after benedic-
tion by Sister Sarah E. Brown.
	Afternoon Session.—President Sarah M.
Taylor presiding. After roll call and pre-
lude, prayer was offered by Brother E. J.
Larkin of the High Council. Congregation
sang, “Oh, Say, What is Truth?” Minutes
read and approved. President Annie T. Dee
of the Eighth Ward gave notice that a prom-
inent woman, Mrs. Owen Wister, travel-
ing and lecturing in the interest of the Civic
League would visit Ogden, and invited all
to hear her. Also extended an invitation to
all the women of Ogden to visit the “Dee
Memorial Hospital” to see how it is man-
aged.
	Counselor Isabel Foulger spoke upon the
sacrament meeting and word of wisdom,
giving excellent ideas and thoughts regard-
ing these subjects. Instrumental music by
the Misses Wright.
	Sister Amy B. Lyman of the General
Board. Was very much pleased with our
outline work, was quite up to date and was
glad we had taken up Sanitation, something
that is so much needed. Also pleased with
the reports, especially where more families
were visited than were members of the
Church, liked the spirit of hospitality, hoped
the time would come when we would have
more young mothers in Relief Society work.
Urged the mothers to train their girls for
home life.
	Brother Elijah Larkin of the High Coun-
cil, paid a high tribute to motherhood, and
the kindness of the sisters to the missionary
boy, and the great good done by Relief
Society work in general. Spoke of the
Chautauqua, that it would be held during
the month. It is for education and devel-
opment and would also be entertaining in a
musical way.
	Musical selection, the Misses Wright.
	Sister Edna May Davis of the General
Board advised the mothers as to the cloth-
ing that should be worn by the daughters
of Zion in going through the temple. Should
be plain and neat, not much trimming, but
beautifully simple, and read some para-
graphs from the Book of Mormon applic-
able to our time.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon, President of the.
Pioneer Stake, was pleased with the beauti-
ful spirit that was in our midst. All the
sons and daughters of God are equal, and

[Column 2]
the Relief Society is open to all good wom-
en, in it we have much to broaden our minds,
we improve ourselves and scatter incense to
those around. “There are many evils con-
fronting us, especially the young, then let us
get them into our associations and it will
be a safeguard to them.”
	President E. B. Wells was sorry Sister
Jane S. Richards, on account of feeble
health, could not be with us. One who had
labored so long and has done so much good
among the weak and the tempted, and the
needy. The teachers are the backbone of
the Relief Society. To be a teacher is the
way to get an education in the work, had
been a teacher herself. Spoke of the Wom-
an’s Exponent, was the first woman’s paper
published this side of the Mississippi river, is
a paper all should read, and hoped more
would subscribe for it, and hoped the presi-
dent would see that an agent is appointed.
Bore her testimony to the divinity of the
work and of the divine mission of the Proph-
et Joseph Smith, also urged the sisters to re-
member the dead, we have a work to per-
form for them. Hoped the blessings of the
Lord would rest upon all.
	President Taylor stated we would do the
best we could for the Woman’s Exponent
to make it a self-supporting paper. Felt
highly honored in having Sister Wells, and
the members of the General Board with us
and felt to give them a vote of thanks in
behalf of the Ogden Stake, it was a unani-
mous vote. Conference was adjourned for
three months.
	Congregation sang, “God be with you till
we meet again.” Benediction by Eliza Rhees
of Pleasant View.
		—Elizabeth M. Goddard, Asst. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOOD ENOUGH FOR ME.
	[Composed and recited by Mrs. B. S. Good-
win, Beaver, Utah, on the 17th of March, 1911,
President Ward Relief Society and Hand Cart
veteran of 1856.]

	I have read of beautiful islands
		Surrounded by the deep,
	Where the leaves never fade.
		And the skies never weep.
	I care not for tropical beauties 
		Or the splendors of the sea—
	The Rocky Mountain valleys
		Are good enough for me. 

	I have gazed on the Grampion mountains.
		Back in my childhood days—
	The heather hills and mossy dells
		And climbed the Gowany braes.
	I have seen the great ships anchored
		in the harbor of Dundee,
	But Utah’s vales, her hills and dales
		Are good enough for me.

	I have seen the great cathedrals,
		Of rich carvings, and stained glass,
	With lofty towers, symbols of power,
		And admired them as I passed.
	They cannot be compared
		To our Temples grand and fair.
	Where God’s saints with bended knee.
		Worship in most holy prayer.
	
	I have seen the protestant churches,
		With dome and lofty spire,
	As if to say, come worship this way: 
		Our aims are purer, and higher.
	I care not for all of Christendom,
		Among themselves they do not agree
	I am content to be a Saint—
		That is good enough for me.


I have often heard of the sunny south,
		And the days of “long ago,”
	Others talk of the frozen north,
		The lands of ice and snow,
	But the glorious West, I love the best,
		No fairer sight can be,
	Than Utah’s snow capped mountains,
		They’re good enough for me.

	I have worked behind the great mill gates
		Ten hours each day, shut in
	Where a thousand shuttles flew at once
		That made terrific din;
	I am glad we left old Babylon,
		For Utah’s vales so free—
	A home and friends in Beaver town—
		Is good enough for me.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
			NEBO STAKE. 
	The uarterly conference of Nebo Stake
Relief Society was held March 31, 1911, at
Payson, Utah. Conference convened at 10
o’clock a. m., President Eliza J. Dixon pre-
siding. President Dixon made opening re-
marks, and gave in a report of Nebo Stake
Relief Society. Sister Martha S. Kapple
reported the visits made to the various
wards during the year, and spoke words of
encouragement to the sisters.
	Sister Dixon read an article on the duties
of the Relief Society.
	Sister Tompson reported Spanish Fork
First Ward in good condition, and bore her
testimony to the truth of the gospel. Sis-
ter Jones reported the Third Ward of Span-
ish Fork in good condition. Sister Snell
reported the Fourth Ward of Spanish Fork
in good condition and doing their duty. 
	Recitation by Sister Simmons, entitled
“The Shipwreck.”
	Sister Broam reported Eureka Ward do-
ing remarkably well under their circum-
stances. Brother Jacob Sharer said he was
surprised (after listening to the reports of
the various wards) at the amount of good
the Relief Society was doing, and the great
work they are performing. Said it is the
work of the Lord. Spoke of the influence
women have had in the history of the world. 
	President Dixon made a few closing re-
marks. Morning session adjourned. 
	Continued at 2 o’clock, Prest. Eliza J. 
Dixon presiding. Sister Martha S. Kapple
in charge. After the usual opening exer-
cises, Sister Pickering gave a report of Pay-
son, have good attendance, are doing good
work. Sister Forcey reported Mammoth
doing good work, taking care of the sick,
and feeding the poor. Sister Greenhalch re-
ported Santaquin doing good work and
prospering. Sister Pierce reported Salem
in good condition. Sister Kapple was
pleased with the reports of the various
wards. Sister Evans read a revelation from
Doctrine and Covenants, given through
Joseph Smith to Sister Emma Smith, and
commented upon it. 
	Duet by Sisters Gardener and Nebeker,
entitled Madaline. 
	Brothers Hanks was always pleased to at-
tend conference of the sisters because the
spirit of the Lord is always with them.
Brother Nebeker said the sisters had the
spirit of their work. Brother Ryde spoke a
short time and read a passage from the
Bible where it said there was a time for all
things, praised the Relief Society for their
excellent work. Sister Dixon was very


[Column 1]
much pleased with the excellent work the
sisters were doing. Conference adjourned
for three months after singing, “Come, Let
Us Anew Our Journey Pursue.” Benedic-
tion by Sister McKell. Sister Dixon thanked
the sisters for their hospitality.
—E. A. Hawkins, Cor. Sec.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Nebo
Stake, held June 23, 1911, at Spanish Fork
Second Ward meeting house. President
Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After the usual
exercises Sister Tompson spoke a few words
of welcome. Sister Dixon made opening re-
marks, was pleased to have our visiting sis-
ters of the General Board with us, was
thankful for the different organizations and
the opportunity we have of improving the
talents God has given us. Gave a report of
Nebo Stake Relief Society. Clarissa S.
Williams, first counselor to President E.
B. Wells in the General Relief Society,
spoke for some time, said what is a trial to
one is not a trial to others. Advised Relief
Society teachers to visit every family that
lives in the ward whether they belong to
our Church or not, and testify to them of
the truthfulness of the gospel; it is our duty
as members of our Church. President E. B.
Wells sends her love and blessing to the
sisters of the Nebo Stake. Sister Emily S.
Richards of the General Board talked for
some time, was grateful for the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society. “We should be
careful what we say of others, for one
word spoken is hard to recall because it
soon spreads.”
	Recitation, Sister Maggie Ludlow, en-
titled “The Organ Builder.”
	Sister Money said she had belonged to
the Church over sixty years, accepted the
gospel in Scotland, had seen the power of
God made manifest many times, told of
crossing the plains and how she had been
blessed. Conference adjourned until 1:30
o’clock p. m., after singing, “For the
Strength of the Hills we Bless Thee,” and
benediction by Sister Evans.

	At 1:30 o’clock conference reconvened,
president Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing, “Come, Come, Ye Saints.” Prayer,
Brother Gardener. Singing, “High on the
Mountain Top.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards said we should
take our children into our confidence and
make them our companions, should talk to
them on the sacredness of motherhood and
fatherhood, should extend our hand to the
fallen and those that make mistakes.
	Song by Sister Edna Holt, entitled “Some
Other Day.”
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams thought
our children should be married in the temple
for time and eternity, and asked parents to
encourage their young people to go to the
temple and go with their own temple clothes.
Advised the Relief Society to keep temple
clothes to rent, teach your daughters the
sacredness of the temple clothes. It is our
duty to do all we can to make ourselves
worthy of our children, and our children
worthy of us. Said we put too much trust
in the family doctor and not enough in our
Heavenly Father. We should sustain those
that are called to preside over us.
	Song by Sister Davis.
	Brother Lemon spoke for some time on
the work of the Relief Society, should teach
the sisters how to train their children; we
have to learn here a little and there a little;

[Column 2]
we are not all alike, but should treat all
right and not say anything bad about any
one, even if we don’t like them. Said we
should accept the gospel and live it. Broth-
er Joseph Reece said much depended on the
mothers in Israel, most good boys and girls
have good mothers. There is no greater
work being done in the Church than is be-
ing done by the Relief Society, asked the
blessings of the Lord on the sisters. Brother
August Swensen said he had enjoyed the
remarks that had been made also spoke on
voting on the liquor question at our coming
election, June 27. Sister Dixon made clos-
ing remarks, and thanked the good sisters
of Spanish Fork for their hospitality. Con-
ference adjourned for three months, after
singing “Doxology” and benediction by sis-
ter Elsie Kerr.
—Eliza A. Hawkins, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	In Brussels and Russia retreats in the na-
ture of maternity hospitals are provided at
public expense, to which any expectant
mother may repair to be cared for until she
is physically able to resume her work. No
charge is made, and the right to take ad-
vantage of the opportunity afforded belongs
to her in virtue of her motherhood alone.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S
SCHOOL of NURSING
and
OBSTETRICS.

	The session of 1911-12 will begin on Mon-
day, October 9, 1911, with improved facil-
ties, and a wide range of opportnities for
gaining a thorough knowledge of this the
most important branch of a woman’s edu-
cation.
	The full course of study, together with
many practical advantages, will be given for
$50.00.
	Books from $8.00 to $10.00, according to
grade and binding.
	For full particulars call, phone, or write
to Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 713 Second Ave., Salt
Lake City. ’Phone, 25323.

[Column 2]
SCHOOL OF NURSING
and
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence her
school in nursing, Monday, September 25, 1911.
Course continues eight months. Class in Ob-
stetrics will start October 9, 1911. (Those
who study Obstetrics are required to attend
the Nurse Class. No extra charge.)
	Though every young woman may not wish
to be a nurse, yet to know herself is an im-
portant matter to every woman.
Terms for Nursing.................$25.00
Terms for Obstetrics...............50.00
	Approximate cost of text books from $5.00
to $8.00.
	PLEASE GIVE AS WIDE CIRCULATION
AS POSSIBLE FOR THESE OPPORTUNI-
TIES FOR WOMEN.
	Write to Dr. M. C. Roberts for further in-
formation.
79 C. St., Salt Lake City.
Bell Phone 2002.


WOMEN IN THE CHURCHES.
Editor Woman’s Journal:—
	In your paper of Aug. 19 I find a short
notice of the admission of fifteen women
to the Wesleyan Methodist Conference at
Cardiff, Wales.
	This is no doubt the first time they have
been admitted to the Methodist Conference.
But in the Welsh Church of centuries ago
women had the same rights that men had.
	At the age of twenty, both men and
women voted in the churches, congrega-
tional government. At this time all officers
but the King were elected by the people,
men and women voting at the age of twenty.
To say Welshman meant Welshwoman as
well no difference and this continued for
centuries, until the English denied them
their rights.


Our American ideas about independence
came from the Welsh people.—Mary H. 
Winchell Barker, Detroit, Mich.


EXTRACTS.
	Baroness Aletta Korf, an American girl
and a Bryn Mawr graduate, who is the
wife of an official in Finland, is reported as
saying that one of the first things the wom-
en of Norway did with their ballots was to
get the Government to start schools of do-
mestic training for girls.
	The Premier of New South Wales, when
in New York a few days ago, declared that
equal suffrage in his State has operated
most satisfactorily during the ten years it
has been effective. “A higher morality has
resulted,” he said, “and the home life, on
which any nation depends, has been 
strengthened. More women vote than do
men, and, contrary to much argument, the
franchise does not unsex them. It makes
our women more womanly, and the result
has been that there is a great decline in
the infraction of laws, although the popula-
tion has wonderfully increased.”


ODDS AND ENDS.
	Bertis and Alice were sitting alone to-
gether in the moonlight, uttering tender 
nonsense.
	“And,” said the girl, bravely, “if poverty
comes, we will face it together.” 
“Ah, dearest,” he replied, “the mere sight
of your face would scare the wolf away!”
	And ever since he has been wondering
why she returned his ring
	Adam sat down. “I am the greatest 
man in the world,” he said to himself, “the
wisest sage, the biggest financier and cap-
tain of industry I hold all the records for
the 100-yard dash to the Marathon; my
wife is the best-dressed woman in the
world I am the best-dressed man. Gad-
zooks, I am too good to be true; I will
eat of the fruit of the tree of evil.”—Life.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

