Vol. 40				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MIDWINTER NUMBER, 1912				No. 6.


CONTENTS.
Charles Dickens .............................A. W. C.		41
Aunt Myram’s Garden...........Mell C. Wood		43
How the Betsy Ross Flag Was Made...........		43
In Balmy Southern California......................
	..............................Elizabeth S. Wilcox		43
Sketches from the Life of Eunice Billings
	Snow.....................................................		47
Notes and News...................................... 43,		48
R. S. Reports: Teton Stake............................		46
		Ogden Stake..................................		47
		Bear River Stake...........................		47
Editorial:
		Greetings and Congratulations......		44
		Progress of Women in the Last
			Seventy Years.......................		44
		In Memoriam................................		45
		Organized Charity.........................		45
		Mary Stevenson Clark...................		46
		Literary Notes................................		46
Poetry:
		Youth and Old Age.Ruth May Fox		41
		Youth of Zion..Emmeline B. Wells	43


YOUTH AND OLD AGE.
	(Inscribed to Sister E. B. Wells.)
How beautiful is youth! fresh, fearless, gay;
Like laughing water, bounding down the steep
To join the foaming torrent's frenzied dance,
In haste to reach the open sea. What then?
With wond’ring eyes gaze on the mystic deep,
A fond farewell—farewell forevermore.
How far more beautiful is mellowed age,
Which calmly lingers at the ebon gate,
As roses eld await a passing breeze
To waft their petals o’er the garden wall;
Which looketh retrospectively upon
A lustrous, fruitful past, without remorse,
Without regret for unaccomplished aims—
For pain or woe, hot tears or aching limbs;
Rejoicing rather in the glorious end
Of that which was, and is, and yet shall be.
Repinings for departed youth, begone!
Like flow’rs, ’twas made to blossom and decay;
But life—eternal life—belongs to age,
All knowledge, wisdom, glory in its train.
Then wherefore care if time our cheeks doth
	mar,
Doth bind our furrowed brows with leaden
	bands,
Refuses guidance to our tired feet,
Should even bid our quivering lips be still;
Old age, like Everest’s towering peak
Shall rear its head until it pierce the skies.
					—Ruth May Fox.


[Column 1]
		CHARLES DICKENS.
A Review of His Life, Suggested by the World-
	Wide Observance of His One-Hundredth
				Birthday.
	At the beginning of the nineteenth century
the civilized world was in almost a state of
stagnation so far as advancement along edu-
cational lines was concerned. Napoleon, that
most consummate and indomitable of sol-
diers, was marching through all Europe with
his “grand army,” carrying everything be-
fore him. The nations were terrified and
every effort, every means, was being ex-
pended to assemble armies, train and equip
them to meet this one great foe of nations―

[Column 2]
a feat at last successfully accomplished
when at Waterloo, in 1815, Napoleon’s star
fell from the heavens, and his power ceased
forever.
	Charles Dickens was at that time three
years old, having been born in 1812. The
terrors of war having past, the world was
in the dawn of a new era or epoch of let-
ters, and one of the brightest literary con-
stellations that has ever lighted the world
appeared when Charles Dickens began his
career. There were Scott, Thackeray, For-
ster (Dickens’s greatest friend and biog-
rapher), Macready the actor, Thomas Car-
lyle, Lytton, Leigh Hunt, Dean Stanley,
George Henry Lewes, and many others.
	The years of Charles Dickens’s childhood
and early manhood were important in the
social history of the old world. They may
be said to mark the parting of the ways be-
tween the past age and the present. He be-
gan life when coaches were the quickest
means of transportation from one part of
the country to another; and yet he lived to
cross the Atlantic in a steamboat. In read-
ing Dickens’s writings it is well to remem-
ber these facts and to think of London, the
scene of most of his books, not as the Lon-
don of today with her wonderful under-
ground railways, her network of electric
contrivances for lighting and conveying
messages, the great river Thames with ex-
pansive bridges where the greatest shipping
of the world is carried on, and along whose
banks now is one of the most interesting
thoroughfares in the world, with statues,
obelisks, parks and palaces; but a great,
dark city with thousands of inhabitants
struggling for a livelihood in almost any
way that presented itself; advancing, cer-
tainly, but the great genius of invention had
not discovered itself when Dickens began
his literary career.
	So much of Charles Dickens’s personal
history is in his writings that it is well to
know something of the man himself.
	Charles John Huffam Dickens was born
on Friday, February 7, 1812, at Landport in
Portsea. His father, John Dickens, was a
clerk in the navy pay office, working at this
time in the Portsmouth dock yard; his
mother had been a Miss Elizabeth Barron. 
Of his father, a thriftless, luckless man, Dick-
ens always spoke with affectionate regard;
though it is well known he was the model
for the famous character Micawber. To his
mother, who apparently misunderstood him,
and yet to whom he owed all he had of early
education, he seldom referred. He was by
no means an only nor a favored child, being
the second in a family of eight children.
After a short residence in London, when
Charles was between four and five years old
the family moved to Chatham, where many
strong impressions were made upon his
mind, even though so young, and which in
some ways are marked in his later life and
works. It was here he first learned to read,
having been taught by his mother. He was
fond of reading, fond of dreaming and his
father’s library, which though not large pos-
sessed some rather fine books, was Dickens’s

[Column 3]
delight. He cared little for games and out-
door sports, and was a rather small and deli-
cate child. The books he read, and whose
characters he afterwards lived and acted,
were, “Tom Jones,” “Roderick Random,”
“Peregrine Pickle,” “Humphrey Clinker,”
“The Vicar of Wakefield,” “Don Quixote,”
“Gil Bias,” “Robinson Crusoe,” and the
“Arabian Nights”—strange books for so
young a child, but he himself says in the
mouth of David Copperfield: “They did
me no harm, for whatever harm there was
in some of them was not there for me. I
knew nothing of it.”
	During the last two years at Chatham he
attended school; and when he was nine,
the family moved back to London. Now
began the sadness and trials of the boy’s life,
the memories of which he could never ef-
face nor the causes did he ever forgive; and
yet to this very time of trial for the little
fellow the world owes much, for it was
then he saw and learned the cruel side of
life; it was then his nature was so touched
with the lowly, the pathetic, even the crim-
inal side; it was then that he walked and
toiled among the poor, the unfortunate, the
cringing and the wicked, but possessed of
his God-given gifts of thoughtfulness, dis-
cernment, character study and a wonderful
mind. The people he met and the lessons
he learned in his sorrow have brightened
and delighted many hearts when pictured
and characterized by his most facile pen.
Of these days he himself writes: “I know
that I have lounged about the streets in-
sufficiently clad and unsatisfactorily fed. I
know that, but for the mercy of God, I might
easily have been, for any care that was taken
of me, a little robber or a little vagabond.”
	Through the adverse circumstances of his
parents he was compelled to go to work and
found employment pasting labels on boxes of
blacking. Trying to help his mother and
make the most he could out of a shilling a
day, exposed to everything painful and evil,
it is a wonder that his delicate body neither
succumbed to the privation and exposure
nor his character yielded to the evil influ-
ences; but Providence prevented either thing
happening, and instead his poverty actually
became the schoolmaster which produced
the great novelist. Yet the memories of
these days, while they provided many of his
best characters, were always painful to him,
and in later life he avoided the streets and
alleys that had been his early haunts; even
twenty-five years later he could only with
difficulty speak of those three years of his
apprenticeship in the shoe-blacking ware-
house, when his father, with the rest of the
family, were in Marshalsea—the debtor’s
prison. So blank were his evenings that at
last he remonstrated with his father and a
more suitable lodging was found for him
near Marshalsea, and in future days the
abode of Bob Sawyer.
	In 1824, when Charles Dickens was twelve
years old, through a small legacy and
the insolvent debtors’ act, John Dickens,
the father, was released from Marshalsea


[Column 1]
and to the great delight of the lad, Charles
was allowed to again attend school. Here
he found more congenial companionship
than Bob Fagin and the boys of his earlier
acquaintance. Here also he proved him-
self apt, but what he learned in school life
does not appear to have affected his work
like his necessary labors did. He entered
as a clerk the office of Edward Blackmore,
an attorney of Grays Inn, with whom he
stayed about two years. His master re-
cords that several incidents took place in the
office of which he must have been a keen
observer, “as I recognized some of them in
his ‘Pickwick’ and ‘Nickleby’ and I am
much mistaken if some of his characters had
not their originals in persons I well remem-
ber.” In some way he mastered shorthand
and at the age of nineteen gained admit-
tance to the gallery of the House of Com-
mons reporting in succession for the True
Sun, the Mirror of Parliament, and the
Morning Chronicle. It was doubtless dur-
ing his days as a newspaper reporter that
he gained his intimate knowledge of coach-
ing days and coaching ways which so charm
the readers of “Pickwick.”
	In December, 1833, Dickens made his first
appearance in print in the pages of the Old
Monthly Magazine, with “A Dinner at Pop-
lar Walk,” afterwards included in Sketches
by Boz under the name “Mr. Minns and his
Cousin.” That first appearance in print was
a great day for the world, and for him, who
walked Westminster Hall “because his eyes
were so dimmed with joy and pride they
could not bear the street, and were not fit to
be seen there.”
	It is not necessary to go into detail con-
cerning the issuing of different articles in
different magazines and papers, but from
this time on Dickens multiplied his literary
contributions, though for a time he contin-
ued as a reporter. It was a memorable time
in Dickens’s career when he issued his first
book. It was “Sketches by Boz,” in two
volumes, and at the same time “Pickwick”
began to appear in monthly instalments.
	On April 2nd, 1836, Dickens married
Catharine Hogarth, from whom in later
years he separated. Mr. G. A. Sala de-
scribes Dickens’s personal appearance at this
time in the following graphic manner: “Go
to Maclise’s canvas and ponder over that ex-
quisite delineation of the young man with
the long, silky hair, the fascinating smile,
and the marvelous clear and inquiring eyes;
that was the Charles Dickens who, in high
satin stock and double breast pin, in glossy
frock coat and velvet collar, in cut velvet
waistcoat and glistening chain was in the
early days of Queen Victoria’s reign one of
the best looking and best dressed young fel-
lows about town.”
	With complete publication of the “Pick-
wick Papers” fame came to Dickens with
overwhelming suddenness and he undertook
more work than he could well carry out,
having begun “Oliver Twist” and “Nicholas
Nickleby;” so immediately leaped into high
popularity the lad who so few years before
had followed a menial employment in a
blacking warehouse. Few advances of for-
tune have been so rapid, and it is memorable
that Dickens’s fame and popularity never
ceased nor waned during his lifetime, and
wherever he traveled or lived he was always
sought after and admired.
	As a man he was generous and lovable,
counting among his dearest friends the most

[Column 2]
notable men of the day. As a father he was
gentle, tender and companionable, his chil-
dren adored him. His daughter Mamie very
lovingly describes their home evenings, tell-
ing how her father sang and danced and
acted with his family like a child himself.
Dickens was not kindly disposed towards
other lands than his own, so as a traveler
he was not above criticism. Always ready to
criticize others, he was a Britisher through
and through. He made two trips to Amer-
ica and was received both times with open
arms and the greatest enthusiasm by the
American people, but after his return from
his first American tour, he very harshly and,
the Americans felt, unjustly criticized both
the country, the people and their customs.
Still he himself says that on his American
trip he felt nearer to being famous than ever
in his life; when on the street he was
stopped by a lady who said, “Mr. Dickens,
will you let me touch the hand that has
filled my house with many friends?”
	Dickens went on the continent for change
and rest many times, and began the writing
of some stories there, but was never able to
complete them there, saying that he missed
the numbers on the houses, the throngs of
people and other things that London pro-
vided and it seemed it was there among the
smoke and noise that he gathered the char-
acter studies which his genius portrayed.
Throughout his life Dickens had a great
fondness for the stage and many have won-
dered that he did not follow the profession
for he had undoubted ability in that line and
often appeared in amateur performances,
and in later life when he traveled through
the provinces and to American and gave read-
ings from his own work he charmed the
public with his readings and it is said he
made more money in that way than in writ-
ing. His work was increasing and he died,
as he had said he wished to, in the harness;
for it was while writing “The Alystery of
Edwin Drood,” in his fifty-ninth year. He
was buried quietly and privately as he had
wished in the Poets’ Corner in Westminster
Abbey, close to the monuments of Shake-
speare, Chaucer and Dryden.
	Dean Stanley, in speaking in Westminster
said: “He whom we mourn was the friend
of mankind, a philanthropist in the true
sense, the friend of youth, the friend of the
poor, the enemy of every form of meanness
and oppression. No English writer save
possibly Shakespeare, has drawn so many
characters that have become household
words.” Characterization was his chiefest
gift, whilst plot was his great weakness.
Most novelists find first a plot and weave
the story around it, bringing forth charac-
ters to aid and develop the story, while
Dickens’s books are almost entirely without
plot. Some critics claim that the lack of
plot is probably due to the fact that his nov-
els were published in serial form and as the
issues appeared he found new subjects and
characters; at any rate it was his way and
a true genius has to have a way all his own.
To some readers the lack of plot is very
acceptable, for one can pick up a novel of
Dickens and turn to almost any chapter and
be amused or touched just as the subject
may be; especially is this true of “Pick-
wick.” For instance, it is not at all neces-
sary to read the whole book to enjoy any-
thing so amusing as Sam Weller’s Valen-
tine, or Pickwick’s trial in the suit for dam-
ages by Mrs. Bardell, or Mr. Winkle’s

[Column 3]
elopement; in fact, if you are ever very tired
and somewhat depressed in spirit, pick up
“Pickwick” and read a few paragraphs—it
will certainly dispel the blues. He was a
master in every line—tragedy, pathos, com-
edy and farce. For tragedy read “Oliver
Twist;” for pathos, “Dombey and Son,”
“Little Dorrit” and “The Old Curiosity
Shop;” for farce, “Pickwick.” In descrip-
tive narrative Dickens has no equal. It is
sometimes said of him that his characters are
caricatures and that he greatly exagger-
rates everything; yet to draw caricatures is
a fine art of which one might well be proud.
That he exaggerated greatly is doubtful; he
had a keen perception of eccentricity and the
genius to draw it. The remark is often
made when some queer character is seen,
“How Dickens could have described him!”
As a matter of fact human life has many
phases, but there are few geniuses to por-
tray it. Another criticism of his work is
that he had few or no good women char-
acters. True, there are not many of the
heroic kind such as Shakespeare and Scott
portray; but for true womanliness there are
many, Bella Wilfer and Lizzie Hexam in
“Our Alutual Friend,” Agnes and Dora and
poor unfortunate Emily in “David Copper-
field.” That he drew his characters from
people he knew is well known, and “David
Copperfield,” his own favorite book, is found
to be almost a reproduction of his own life.
As his father is the original of Wilkins Mic-
awber, so is his mother the original of Mrs.
Nickleby, and again she seems to appear as
Mrs. Wilfer in “Our Alutual Friend”—not
an exaggerated character either, a woman
with some education and position, finding
herself in reduced circumstances naturally
resents anything like patronage from the
newly rich Mr. and Mrs. Boffin, especially
when she feels their wealth is obtained at
the expense of her daughter’s misfortune;
yet for two lovable, whole-hearted, inno-
cent-minded dear creatures commend me to
Mr. and Mrs. Boffin.
	Dickens was truly one of the world’s
great characters himself. We love the man
through his works, and his works through
the man. 					A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES.
	The nine-year-old daughter of the Gov-
ernor of Tennessee is said to be a “militant
suffragette,” while neither of her parents
claims to be in favor of suffrage. A twelve-
year-old school girl in Kansas is reported as
addressing large school meetings in behalf
of votes for women. A ten-year-old girl in
Los Angeles did heroic work for the cause
during the California campaign; and a little
twelve-year-old actress in New York holds
suffrage meetings between acts at the the-
ater.
	Fraulein Gertrude Wocker, of Berne,
thirty-three years old, has just taken up her
post as professor of natural philosophy at
the University of Leipsig, in Germany, hav-
ing been called there by the German gov-
ernment. She is the youngest accredited
professor at a university in Germany, and
the only woman to hold such a place. The
Countess von de Ladevaden was nominated
as professor at the University of Bonn, but
the university authorities refused to sanction
the appointment, so Leipsig wins the his-
toric credit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


YOUTH OF ZION.
Zion’s hope is most exultant
	In the future yet to be,
When the children of the cov’nant
	Write their deeds in history.
Sons and daughters with a mission
Foretold in prophetic vision.
Zion’s hosts must be triumphant
	In the battle for the right:
They are brave and strong and valiant;
	They must surely win the fight,
Maintaining righteousness and truth
In the full vigor of their youth.
In these mountain vales primeval
	They have grown to manhood’s prime,
Taught to shun the paths of evil,
	Filling life with deeds sublime;
Proclaiming equity and peace
Till tyranny and discord cease.
 In the shadow of these mountains,
	Tow’ring high t’ward heaven's dome,
Drinking deep from crystal fountains,
Flowing freely round the home,
Nature in her tenderest grace
Makes beautiful each lonely place.
These stalwart men from noble sires,
	Proudly bear the honored name;
Heroic deeds each life inspires,
	Treading paths that lead to fame;
Nor ever lay their armor down,
But win the prize and earn the crown.
			—Emmeline B. Wells.
Februaray 8, 1912.


[Column 1]
	AUNT MYRAM’S GARDEN.
		A TRUE STORY.
	Aunt Myram, as we called her, came
from England, where she had worked in a
stocking factory from the time she was old
enough to hold a bobbin. One day she heard
the call of a “new faith,” and accepting it,
came to Utah.
	In her heart she was a true child of na-
ture, and without realizing it, had craved a
bit of land of her own, all her life; when it
came to be her’s, that bit of a garden only
a few feet square, she loved it so fondly
and tended it with such care, had such a
pretty coaxing way, that the slips and seeds
grew to wonderful perfection in spite of un-
seasonable winds or weather.
	No matter how hard the day’s work had
been, Aunt Myram was never too weary to
weed and water that bit of garden; she
would say, if remonstrated with, “it rests
me to dig among the sweet violets and talk
to the mignonette and gilly flowers and
brings back memories of when, on a Sun-
day, I have seen just such old-fashioned
flowers in the farmers’ cottage gardens and
smelled just such fragrant violets, while
walking along the lanes and hedgerows of
dear old England.”
	Not that she regretted leaving the old
country, for in spite of the fact that her life
in America had been a hard one, with little
leisure or pastime, she kept the even tenor
of her way, looking back to the land of her
birth, with that kindly sweet remembrance
we have for our first teacher.
	Many the fragrant bouquets from that lit-
tle garden, that have graced my table in the
long ago and one of the visions I hope I
shall yet realize is to see dear Aunt Myram
again, radiant and sweet, “clothed with ce-
lestial grace,” among the flowers in the
gardens of Paradise.

[Column 2]
Within Aunt Myram’s garden grew
Flowers of every kind and hue;
Sweet Williams, pinks and lemon balm,
Wall-flowers and chrysanthemum,
Lilies white and lilies freckled,
Marigolds and tulips speckled,
London’s pride and four-o’clocks,
With larkspurs and tall hollyhocks;
Then honeysuckles, coral red,
And oh! the sweetest violet bed—
Why, you could scent them far away,
At morning’s dawn and close of day.
Bright morning glories, wet with dew,
Around her windows twined and grew;
And oh! the poppies that grew there,—
In Aunt Myram’s garden fair,—
think I see each silken head,
All white and pink and double red,—
Nodding and swaying in the light,
Making all nature seem more bright;
And sweet peas, too, the lovely things,
With clinging tendrils, fairy wings,
And mignonette and eglantine,
And daisies pied and columbine,
The sturdy Canterbury bell,—
And many more that I could tell,
All grew in sweet profusion there,
Nursed and tended with loving care.
But sweeter than all the flowers there
The little woman with silver hair
And bright black eyes and winning smile,
And gentle ways that cares beguile.
I see her there among her flowers,
As I sit thinking, in lonely hours.
Long since, Aunt Myram went away
Where flowers bloom in endless day;
But her nature sweet and brave and true,
A lesson left, for me and you:
Tho’ cares are many and days are gray,
Just tend the flowers along the way;
Skies will brighten and blossoms glow,
They need the showers to make them grow.
				MELL C. WOODS,
A tribute. March, 1901.


HOW THE BETSY ROSS FLAG WAS
			MADE.
	A rare collection of valuable historical
documents and relics, many of them faded
and frayed and all having played vital roles
in American history, is in the possession of
the Illinois Society of the Sons of the Amer-
ican Revolution, which maintains a library
and office at 30 North LaSalle street, Chi-
cago. Particularly interesting are the relics
that show the evolution of the American
flag, including reproductions of the first
American banner that floated on the Ameri-
can continent, and presenting all the links
in its development down to the more mod-
ern forms.
	The copy of the Betsy Ross flag which is
owned by the society was made in 1905 by
Rachel Albright, a granddaughter of Betsy
Ross, when she was over 92 years old. De-
scribing this and other relics in the posses-
sion of the society, James Edgar Brown
writes in the current issue of The Hamilto-
nian, official organ of the Hamilton Club of
Chicago:
	“In the latter part of May, 1776, General
Washington, accompanied by Colonel Geo.
Ross, a member of his staff, and by the
Hon. Robert Morris, the great financier of
the Revolution, called upon Mrs. Betsy Ross,
a niece of Colonel Ross. She was a young
and beautiful widow, only 24 years of age,
and known to be expert at needle-work.
They called to discuss with her the design
and manufacture of a national emblem, our
first starry flag. Up to this time almost
every regiment on sea and land had its own
particular flag, which fact often proved
most embarrassing to military officials.
	“Washington unfolded a paper on which
had been rudely sketched a plan of a flag of


thirteen stripes, with a blue field dotted with
thirteen stars. They talked over the plan
of this flag in detail, and Mrs. Ross noticed
that the stars which were sketched were
six-pointed, and suggested that they should
have five points. Washington admitted that
she was correct, but he preferred a star
that would not be an exact copy of that on
his coat of arms, and he also thought that
a six-pointed star would be easier to cut.
Mrs. Ross liked the five-pointed star, and
to show that they were easily cut she deftly
folded a piece of paper and with one clip
of her scissors unfolded a perfect star with
five points.
	“She set to work and the committee ap-
proved the finished flag. Mrs. Ross was
then instructed to procure all the bunting
possible in Philadelphia and make flags for
the use of Congress, Colonel Ross furnish-
ing the money.
	“The resolution adopting the flag was not
passed by Congress until the following year
and is dated June 14, 1777. A month pre-
vious, however, there is a record of an order
on the treasury in favor of Betsy Ross for
£14 12s and 2d, in payment of flags for the
fleet in the Delaware River.”


IN BALMY SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
			RIVERSIDE, Cal.,
				February 8, 1912.
	DEAR “AUNT EM:” One year ago today
I wrote you a few lines from Ocean Park.
Again today I send you a few lines in mem-
ory of my dear mother’s birthday anniver-
sary, and to show you that I also remember
and love you.
	The memory of many sweet things which
you did for mother when we had her with
us and the memory of lovely things said of
her later will always make me hold your
memory in affection.
	I hope you are feeling well and wish you
could be in this beautiful place and warm
climate of southern California during the
remainder of our winter. I love the beau-
tiful pepper-trees and the palms and the
verdure. There are some flowers, but not
a great many now; it is not just the season
for fullness of bloom. I have seen a won-
derful cactus garden not far from the Mis-
sion Inn. It was in a tiny park, just a
“breathing place.” Mrs. McClellan took
us over there. She knows Riverside pretty
well. Yesterday we were taken an auto-
mobile ride up Rubideaux mountain to the
cross placed there in memory of Fra Ju-
nipero Serra, who established the missions
in California. They were a day’s jour-
ney apart, beginning in San Diego, 1769,
and continuing to San Francisco. His great
work is much appreciated by Californians.
The sight of the orange groves, acres and
acres, hundreds of acres at least in one
great stretch, with their loads of ripened
fruit, is a sight to make the heart glad.
	It is now Friday morning. Yesterday
Mrs. McClellan and I were taken for a
ride in the suburbs by Mrs. Castleman, a
lady who lives here. We were present at
a pleasant dinner party in the evening, and
in the later evening Professor McClellan
gave a musical program on the great organ
in the music room. That room is built like
a cloister and contains many valuable relics,
besides the niches and statues and other re-
minders of the monasteries.
			ELIZABETH S. WILCOX.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	FEBRUARY, 1912


[Column 1]
GREETINGS AND CONGRATULATIONS.
	Beloved Sisters and Co-laborers: —
	We desire again in the new year that has
just begun to extend to one and all, officers,
teachers and members of the Relief Society
throughout the world, a heartfelt and loving
greeting, and to express our appreciation of
your labors in the great and grand organi-
zation.
	There is no limit to the work of charity
in the Relief Society. It is a daily and an
hourly occupation, of mind and body. How
to manage affairs so as to deal with all kinds
of people and all sort of cases that come up;
with sickness in its various forms, and death
also with needy families who not only have
to be supplied but also taught in many in-
stances how to manage, especially mothers
who do not understand economy in the
home; all this is not simply giving, it is
both learning and teaching what is best to
do under all varieties of circumstances.
	We are aware of your diligence and faith-
fulness, and know that you will make any
effort possible tending to further develop-
ment, spiritually and mentally. No more
possible effort could be made than has al-
ready been accomplished, among the sick,
the destitute. The charity that “giveth lib-
erally and upbraideth not,” our sisters mani-
fest day by day; they are diligent in search-
ing out the needy and relieving their wants;
uplifting the fallen and saving from the
powers of evil those who are tempted to go
into by and forbidden paths.
	We commend your labors in all good
works, and we are assured of the many sac-
rifices you must necessarily make to perform
these noble acts of charity and benevolence;
and we pray that you may realize abundant
blessings in your own households and joy
and satisfaction in your own souls that will
give you peace of mind to more than com-
pensate for all that you do.
	One of the missions given this society by
the prophet Joseph Smith himself, was to
save souls; and if we can succeed in per-
suading the thoughtless and wayward to
turn from evil, and repent and reform, we
shall have accomplished a most desirable ob-
ject; to rescue them from error and lead
them to the truth is to earn the joy of saving
those that were lost and are found again.
	When we contemplate what our sisters
have done in a material way it is indeed
wonderful. The houses that have been built;
the granaries for the storing of wheat, be-
sides assisting the bishops in building meet-

[Column 2]
ing houses, halls, etc., one marvels at the
multiplicity of the labor actually accom-
plished.
	We especially commend your labors with
the young mothers in helping and advising
them. We know that such assistance must
be valuable; and urge you as much as pos-
sible to nourish and cherish spiritual growth
and a testimony of the Savior that it may
be rooted and grounded in the mind of the
young, together with an abiding faith in the
divinity of the mission of the prophet Jo-
seph Smith and of the restoration of the
holy priesthood. Encourage the bearing of
testimony in your meetings and do not fail
to allow the dear sisters who are advanced
in years to have an opportunity to express
themselves, for it is a joy and comfort to
them, and a blessing to those who listen.
	The cultivation of faith in our children is
essential to salvation. Faith is a mighty
power. Let us not neglect it while we are
living in this great day and age when mighty
events are transpiring and still greater are
yet to come. We must never neglect the
faith that lies at the foundation of all power.
	On the seventeenth of March, of this year,
this great organization of the Relief Society
will have reached its seventieth anniversary.
During all those years the spirit of the gold-
en rule has been manifested by these heroic
sisters of charity who richly deserve the title.
It seems very fitting that in this coming an-
niversary we should celebrate the day in
some way never to be forgotten, giving it a
historical importance and significance
worthy of record in Church history.
As it will be the Sabbath day, the
services must necessarily be of a religious
nature, and the brethren will undoubtedly
respond to the wishes of the officers of the
society in lending any assistance possible to
render the occasion appropriate and credit-
able.
	In closing we acknowledge our gratitude
to you all for the love and good wishes ex-
tended to us, and for the co-operation given
to our efforts for enlarging the work in all
its various departments. We shall thankful-
ly remember all favors shown and all kind-
nesses manifested in whatever way, for
these things appeal to us and help us to exert
ourselves, enlarge our own hearts and exer-
cise the divine charity that never faileth and
the humility that brings down the blessings
of heaven upon all who can attain to that
sublime excellence, to “Love our neighbor
as ourselves.”
	Peace and love be unto you and joy in
all your labors.
	Faithfully your Sisters,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, President.
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, 1st Counselor.
		JULINA L. SMITH, 2nd Counselor.


[Column 1]
PROGRESS OF WOMEN IN THE LAST
		SEVENTY YEARS.
	In the course of the three score and ten
years since the Prophet Joseph Smith or-
ganized the Relief Society in this Church,
what wondrous things have been accom-
plished by women, not only in an organized
capacity, but in the various callings, pro-
fessions, and different lines of work! Vol-
umes might be written and yet the half can
never be told.
	Not only has woman enlarged her sphere
but the world has enlarged its capacity for

[Column 2]
the entrance of women into the various
spheres of activity and usefulness.
	It is the boast of the age that woman has
achieved fame and renown beyond the high-
est expectations of woman herself, or even
of the men who are liberal-minded in their
ideas and ideals of womanhood.
	Women astronomers have made discov-
eries in the science that have astonished men
who have been engaged for years in that
direction; women artists have been more
successful than heretofore and their work
is found to be more true to life.
	To be sure many women, as well as men,
think only of women as industrial workers
along mediocre lines; and when they ac-
tually compete with men, it is rather appall-
ing and some are not willing that women
should stand side by side with men.
	It is most wonderful what women have
done and the avenues that have opened for
the progressive advancement of heroic en-
deavor.
	To enumerate only a few of the many
who have accomplished great things would
be impossible in our little paper. In our
own small state there are hundreds of wom-
en that should be mentioned, but one gets
discouraged, in writing, to find that all can-
not be mentioned, therefore only those who
stand out apart from all others because of
some one achievement could possibly be
named. Even to mention a few rare in-
stances would be too much, but it is a matter
for thought and a subject never to be elim-
inated from the pages of history of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries.
	There have been great women even in
ancient times that stand out singly and
rank side by side if not equal with men of
the same period. Certainly we, in these
last days, are not the beginners, but where
they singly may have been able to do much,
we who are organized are able to accom-
plish much more. A few women in the
past have led armies to battle, but in this
more highly civilized age things are vastly
different—organizations of women are pro-
moters of peace. The forces under the
control of women lead to higher civiliza-
tion and enlightenment.
	Of course women are anxious for better
advantages and especially for the better-
ment of the home. Today the nations of
the world stand for better government and
for domestic purity and culture beginning
in the home—and who can declare that
homes are not better and cleaner and purer
than they were in olden times?
	There are no real homes without moth-
ers and therefore the more perfect our
mothers in all lands, the nobler the children
are brought up and trained. Although there
are associations, schools and colleges where
women may receive special training, there
is nevertheless a vast number of untrained
and unskilled women who need attention
and this class is not so easily reached, and
perhaps the time will never come when all
that is desirable will be accomplished.
	After the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in the far west the women of the east
held a convention at Seneca Falls, where
the great army of suffragists were enthused
to enter the ranks and ask for the ballot,
believing it to be the best method of uplift-
ing the home.
	Among those great leaders who convened
on that momentous occasion were women
who afterwards devoted their entire lives,
as it were, to the uplifting of women and


they were modest Quakers who, without
money or powerful influence to aid the en-
franchisement, entered into the field of ac-
tion and worked their way upward and for-
ward. These women had the sublime cour-
age of their convictions, and were sustained,
when opposition was strong and powerful,
and even when persecution was cruel andmerciless. Among these great leaders of
this unpopular cause were women whose
names will stand on history’s pages forever
because of their indomitable courage and
work for humanity: Lucretia Mott, Susan
B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy
Stone, and many more.
	All over the civilized world the awaken-
ing of women has not only been noticeable,
but astounding. The great cause is moving
forward and a multitude are entering the
ranks; the world is becoming better, be-
cause the advanced education of women
means the higher civilization of the entire
globe. It means better homes and sur-
roundings and with all better lives are
higher anticipations, better conditions in the
state and nation and progress everywhere.
	Those who live today are to be congratu-
lated on living in these more propitious
times. In the professions what magnificent
advances have been made! We all know
how gentle and soothing is the touch of a
woman’s hand in sickness or in accident,
and helpfulness in the art of administering
to the sick and suffering, the dead and dy-
ing has been brought almost to perfection.
Florence Nightingale and Clara Barton
and scores of others pioneered the way
in this profession and even though we
should live to overcome all the ailments that
flesh is heir to in this world, still there are
accidents and always death while in this
mortal state. Not only have women in civ-
ilized lands felt the power of the woman’s
era, but in far-off oriental lands there
has come a vast change for higher thought;
a newer life of active service for the race
and especially for womankind.
	Punditta Ramabai has perhaps more than
any other led the way in India and created
an atmosphere of change of custom, that
must yet prove a blessing to many thou-
sand East Indian races. One reform already
achieved is that they cannot abuse young
widows as hitherto. One cannot contem-
plate these old traditions without horror.
	We might go on telling these significant
cases but it is only necessary to touch the
spring and each one who reads will think of
a hundred others of these immortal work-
ers who have sown the seed here and there
which will ripen into immeasurable fields of
bloom and scatter and produce new prod-
ucts to redeem the race.
	But to return to the beginning of this ar-
ticle: until the dawn of the new light that
came by revelation in this, the last dispen-
sation, awakening forces had not yet
operated in the way of woman’s enlighten-
ment and public advance.
	The key of knowledge was turned for
women and the darkness that had overshad-
owed the world began to disappear; like
rays of sunshine is has flooded the earth,
entered into the dark corners of the mind
and created a new era of intelligence that
will eventually be the uplifting of women
and the redemption of the world.

	The total number of women in the world
who now enjoy some measure of suffrage
is estimated at 15,514,647.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
	MARY A. BURNHAM FREEZE.

	A saintly woman, fair of face,
	Divinely tall, of wondrous grace—
	Thy life a triumph of completeness,
	Thy soul the essence of love’s sweetness.

	On the 21st of January, Sister Mary A. 
Freeze was called home to the mansions 
awaiting the faithful and the true. The 
death of this estimable woman is most keen-
ly felt by thousands who knew and loved 
her. Possessed of a strong and pleasing 
personality, always firm but gentle, she 
passed along life’s ways with its sorrows 
and joys with an unfaltering step. Per-
haps her greatest characteristic was her 
strong spirituality which one always felt 
when conversing with her. Faith in God 
and reverence for all the principles of the 
gospel and for those in authority seemed to 
be the two things that guided her most in 
the broad work of her life. 
	While Sister Freeze was identified mostly 
with the work of the Mutual Improvement 
Associations, she also sympathized and 
worked in harmony with all the other aux-
iliary organizations of the Church, feeling 
that all these needed the support of those 
who labor for the upbuilding of the king-
dom of God and the uplifting of humanity. 
She was never known to refuse a duty or 
betray a trust, and no woman could be more 
beloved or honored than was she. While she 
had not had the advantages of education 
that most women have today, she was a stu-
dent and a reader, and her natural intellec-
tual tendencies led her into paths of study 
of nature and of life, written and unwritten, 
that enriched and broadened and refined 
her. She was a lover of poetry, but only 
discovered that she possessed any ability for 
writing through a great trial which her 
faith helped her gloriously to overcome and 
turn into a blessing. The principle of plural 
marriage she accepted as a divine truth and 
lived it as such, making the patriarchal 
home life of her husband’s family a beauti-
ful example of unselfishness and the abode
of faith. She has told her loved ones that 
in answer to a prayer at this time, beautiful 
words in verse came to her as a blessing, 
and she arose in the night and wrote them 
on the cover of a book. The columns of 
THE EXPONENT have many times contained 
verses and articles from her pen, breathing 
forth some of the thoughts and sentiments 
of her rich mind; and it seems especially 
significant that the last previous issue of this 
paper contained perhaps the last poem she 
ever wrote. The beautiful verses themselves 
seem almost a prediction of her passing 
away. Speaking of the universal brother-
hood of man and that we are never alone, 
since Christ has called us His own, the last 
verse reads: 

Look up sister, brother, be glad and rejoice, 
For He hath made plain by His own precious
	voice,
That we are all kindred—then why feel alone, 
Since we hope soon to meet Him and kneel at 
	His throne! 

	Mary A. Burnham Freeze was born in 
Nauvoo, Illinois, October 12, 1845. Her 
father had been a minister of the Christian 
church but through the efforts of the elders 
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints was convinced of the truth of 
their message and was baptized. He 
did not live to come to the valley, but her 

[Column 2]
mother, with her family of little ones, made 
the journey across the plains and arrived in 
Salt Lake City in 1852. The family moved 
later to Richmond, Cache County, where 
Mary attained her young womanhood and 
prepared herself for school teaching. It was 
there she married James Perry Freeze in 
1863, and shortly afterward they made their 
home in Salt Lake City, where she spent all 
the remaining years of her life. She had 
nine children and she was a most devoted 
and loving wife and mother. 
	In 1871 she was appointed president of 
the Retrenchment Association of the Elev-
enth Ward, and when the stake organiza-
tions were effected, she was appointed pres-
ident of the Salt Lake Stake Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association, leaving 
that position when the stake was divided, to 
become a member of the general board of 
the Young Ladies, in which position she
visited the different stakes of Zion and 
taught and admonished the daughters of the 
Saints. She enjoyed to the utmost her work
in the Temple, having been called to work
in that holy place when it was first opened. 
She also did splendid missionary work in 
connection with the Bureau of Information 
on the Temple block. Sister Freeze was a 
charter member of the Utah Woman’s Press
Club, and took an active part in all things 
pertaining to the advancement of women 
and the welfare of her people. Hers was a 
pure, noble, lovable spirit, and wherever 
known she will be greatly missed and sin-
cerely mourned. 
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


MARY A. FREEZE.
Sleep, dear one, sleep, where tremulous the
		stars
	Keep silent watch for dawning of the day:
List! angel voices float through golden bars,
	That keep the way of life alway, alway.
					—Lydia D. Alder.


ORGANIZED CHARITY.
	When one considers the large number of
societies and organizations working along
charity lines, it is almost impossible to be-
lieve that any family or person within reach
of these organizations could be in want.
Volumes have been written lately of the
wonderful success of organized charity, all
showing how much more real help is given
in this way. Surely it ought to be a matter
of pride to the Latter-day Saints that their
own great organization, the Woman’s Re-
lief Society, was so far as known the pioneer
in organized charity in the world. On Mar.
17, 1912, this society will celebrate its 70th
anniversary; and during all those seventy
years the great thought of building up hu-
manity, of giving succor and comfort to the
poor, the sick, the down-hearted, has actu-
ated the hearts of that great body of women
who compose its membership. Quietly and
tenderly do they minister week in and week
out, following so far as possible the admo-
nition of the Savior not to let the right hand
know what the left hand doeth, but unsel-
fishly working day and night in this great
humane work.
	So much has been told to the public of
the dinners and assistance during the holi-
day season given through other organiza-
tions such as the Salvation Army, the Vol-
unteers, the Settlement society, the Ladies’


Aid, and others, that the general president
of the Relief Society thought she would
like to have an estimate of the work done
at that time by that part of her society
located in this city; and the following re-
ports were forwarded to her. As there are
sixty-two stakes in Zion, with a working
Relief Society in each, and as only five of
these are here reported, the readers of the
EXPONENT will be able to form some idea of
the great work done from the figures here
given:
	Granite Stake.—From reports handed in
from ten wards of this stake we compute
these totals: 175 Christmas boxes, valued
at $981; $709.30 in cash; 2,500 lbs. of flour,
1,800 lbs. of potatoes, besides clothing, slip-
pers, shawls for old ladies and 114 pairs of
blankets and quilts.
	Ensign Stake.—205 families supplied with
Christmas dinner; money given to each, also
a sack of flour, a bushel of potatoes, and a
monthly allowance.
	Liberty Stake.—Merchandise amounting
to $235.45, and cash, $206.40, was distrib-
uted among the poor at Christmas.
	Pioneer Stake.—Supplied 260 families
with Christmas dinners (chickens, roasts,
vegetables, candies and nuts); supplied fuel
and other necessities to the amount of $350,
and gave to six widows quilts and blankets.
	Salt Lake Stake.—In some of the wards
the bishopric have entire charge of the
work; in some wards the Relief Society as-
sists the bishopric, and in some wards the
Relief Society has entire charge of the
work. Where the latter was the case, the
donations were as follows: Cash, $731.67;
merchandise, $318.72; coal, 38 1/2 tons;
quilts, 12; besides this, considerable cloth-
ing and other sewing was done.
	We quote these figures as furnished, so
that people may know something of the
work of this organization. Of course, all
over the Church, in every stake of Zion, sim-
ilar work was done and still continues to be
done.
	May the Lord’s blessings attend these
noble workers!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARY STEVENSON CLARK.
	On November 24, 1911, there died in
Farmington one of the noblest of the no-
ble band of pioneer women—Mrs. Mary
Stevenson Clark. A lonely feeling comes
as the ranks are thinned by the passing of
these brave spirits.
	Mrs. Clark was born in Gibraltar, Aug-
ust 29, 1825, where her father was in the
employ of the British government. When
she was a small child the family emigrated
to Albany, New York, where they resided
for a time. Later they moved westward,
continuing their journey at intervals until
they arrived in Utah. When she was a
child but five years of age the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was or-
ganized, and the little girl was baptized a
few years later. She passed through the
mobbings, sufferings and hardships inci-
dent to the early years of Church history.
A mob at one time made a raid upon the
home of her family, ejecting the people,
helping themselves to the contents of the


house, and taking all the clothes except
what were being worn. Her feet were bare
and they were cut and bleeding on the
rough and frozen ground.
	On May 18, 1845, she was married to
Ezra T. Clark. They came to Utah and
settled in Davis county in 1848, moving to
Farmington, April 3, 1850, where Mrs.
Clark lived for over sixty years. On May
18, 1895, Mr. and Mrs. Clark celebrated
their golden wedding. It was made a mem-
orable occasion by the gathering of friends
from different parts of Utah and from Cal-
ifornia and Illinois. Mr. Clark died Oct.
17, 1901.
	Mrs. Clark was the mother of eleven
children, seven of whom, all sons, survive
her. Amasa L. Clark, ex-mayor of Farm-
ington, is her youngest child. The late
Elder Edward Stevenson, who opened the
Church mission in Gibraltar and who was
known throughout the Church for his long
years of missionary work at home as well
as abroad, was her brother. Another broth-
er, James Stevenson of Farmington, over
81 years of age, is the last surviving mem-
ber of that family.
	The old Clark homestead was noted for
its hospitality, friends and even strangers
receiving the same kindly greetings accord-
ed to all the members of that large family.
Mrs. Clark’s characteristics were pa-
tience, unbounded charity in speaking of
others, and devotion to her religion. For
over twenty years she was a counselor to
President Susan Grant of the Davis Stake
Relief Society, and in every way she was a
consistent Latter-day Saint.
	Her funeral took place at Farmington,
November 28, 1911. The speakers were
President F. M. Lyman, Wm. V. Haight,
Sisters Susan Grant and Aurelia S. Rog-
ers, Wm. L. Rich of the Bear Lake Stake
presidency, Stake President J. H. Grant and
Bishop Robinson. Opening and closing
prayers were offered by President James A.
Eldredge and Edward I. Rich, and music
was furnished by the ward choir. The
house was filled to overflowing, and the
floral tributes were many and beautiful. The
grave was dedicated by her son, Bishop W.
W. Clark of Montpelier.
			ELIZABETH S. WILCOX.


LITERARY NOTES.
	Mrs. Samantha T. Brimhall Foley has re-
cently completed and issued in the Spanish
language a book of over one hundred and
seventy choice hymns, gleaned from our
best song books or from themes taken from
the Book of Mormon or other Church
works, including a historical preface ex-
plaining the origin of the Book of Mormon
and its connection with the establishment of
the Church in our day, and the promises of
God to the remnants of Lehi.
	The book breathes the testimony of the
gospel, and besides the rich rythmical accent
each piece is clothed in all its original beauty
by the sweet concord and musical tone of
which the Spanish language is so capable.
Mrs. Foley has spent over twenty-five years
of her life among the Spanish-speaking peo-
ple of Colorado, Arizona and Mexico, and
not only learned the language of books but
of the home life, conditions mental and
spiritual, as well as social customs of a peo-
ple who have long groaned under the weight
of superstition and false doctrine, but whose


souls are readily animated by the first ray of
divine light. Being the remnants of Lehi,
the blood of Israel is prone to assert itself
when correct doctrine is presented in an in-
telligent manner; and the author of this
book aptly asks: “Who shall say that this
new hymn book which is so replete with the
testimony of the gospel will not be a mighty
forerunner to open the way for the record
of their forefathers to find its way among
them?”


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		TETON STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the Te-
ton Stake was held at Driggs, Jan. 21, 1912.
Counselor M. H. Price presiding. Presi-
dent D. C. Driggs and Counselor J. D. Kil-
pack and a number of High Councilors and
Bishops were present, also officers and mem-
bers of the Stake Board.
	Meeting opened at 10 a. m. with singing
“Come, Come, ye Saints.”
	Prayer by Sister Sophia Rigby.
	Singing, “O, Say, What is Truth?”
	Address of welcome given by Sister H.
E. Stevens.
	Congregation sang, “We Thank Thee, O
God.”
	Victor Ward was reported by President
Amy Cherry, showed the Society alive to
their work.
	Solo by Julia Cherry of Victor.
	Sister Martha Little, supervisor of Gos-
pel work, said the sisters were taking a great
interest in the study of the Gospel. Coun-
selor Sarah A. Hulet reported the Driggs
ward in a flourishing condition. President
D. C. Driggs was pleased to be at this con-
ference, to get a glimpse of what is being
done by the sisters. Urged mothers to study
the Gospel that they may teach it to their
children.
	Duet by James and Effie Rigby.
	Elder J. D. Kilpack congratulated the sis-
ters on the works of charity that were be-
ing done. Also approved of the method of
storing their grain in the elevators.
	Closed by singing, “Nay, Speak No Ill.”
	Benediction by Mary E. Hulet.
	Afternoon session.—Opening exercises,
singing and prayer.
	On the stand were Stake Counselors J.
D. Kilpack and George S. Young, also six
members of the High Council and nine of
the Bishopric. All the Stake Board were
present except the president, Susie M. Wil-
son, who is away for the winter.
	Sister M. H. Price gave a report of the
work that is being done by the Stake Board.
	Piano duet by Larkin Price and Ethel-
win Griggs.
	Elder H. M. Warner gave an address on
“What Women are to This Age.”
	Duet by Sisters Ethel Butler and Ella
Rigby.
	Address, “What this Age is to Women,”
was given by Geo. S. Young.
	Trio by H. M. Warner, David Smith and
James Rigby. A talk upon “The Value of
Franchise,” was given by Sister Tacy Bux-
ton.
	Solo by Effie Beesley.
	Conference closed by singing, “Down by
the river’s verdant side.”
	Benediction by Sister Josephine Nielson.


We not only enjoyed a spiritual feast, but
a temporal was also enjoyed. All were in-
vited to partake of refreshment served in
the Stake office, and social greetings were
in order.
			MARY E. HULET, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OGDEN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Ogden Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Relief Society Hall at Ogden,
Utah, on Thursday, Jan. 18, 1912, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m.
	Luncheon was served during the noon
period, when hand-shaking and social con-
versation were indulged in.
	There were present of the brethren: Pres-
dent Thomas B. Evans, of the Stake Pres-
dency, Elijah A. Larkin of the High Coun-
cil, Bishop James Taylor and Elder Dodd.
President Charles C. Richards sent regrets
for unavoidable absence, with a hope for a
successful conference.
	In the absence of Stake President Sarah
M. Taylor, who was excused on account
of illness, Counselor Isabel Foulger pre-
sided, and conducted the exercises. Coun-
selor L. Letitia Richards, members of the
Stake Board and local officers were on the
stand and a goodly number of the sisters
were present.
	After the opening exercises and the gen-
eral routine of business, reports were given
by the local associations; these showed im-
provement in methods of work; each asso-
ciation holds weekly preparation meeting,
where officers and class teachers meet and
prepare their work for the meetings of the
association. Sacrament meetings are being
better attended by the sisters and punctu-
ality is increasing. All expressed interest
in the work and a desire to improve along
all lines. The sick and the poor are well
cared for and the aged are made to rejoice.
	“Suggestions for present and future de-
velopment” was a subject well handled by
Sister Nancy M. Ferrin of the Eden Ward.
She emphasized the opportunity for good of
the visiting teacher, but showed that poor
teaching was a waste of time and energy.
	President Evans thought the word to
teachers was timely; surely misdirected talk
is a waste of time; we must be progressive
and full of zeal if we are to make our in-
fluence felt for good among the people. It
is better to have a heavy eye than a sad
heart; better to wear out than to rust out,
providing the wearing out is in the service
of the Lord. His counsels were fraught
with wisdom and if carried out will cer-
tainly tend to our growth and development.
	Bishop Taylor showed how incompetent
we are to judge another; how weak and err-
ing our judgment; better to extend charity
and leave judgment to Him whose right it is
to judge.
	Councilor Larkin spoke on the proper
training of children and urged a closer
watchcare over them and more congenial
companionship with them.
	Temple and Genealogical work were
touched upon, also other topics pertaining
to Relief Society work. A good spirit was
enjoyed throughout the conference and we
trust the teachings given will be prolific of
good.
				NELLIE BECRAFT, Sec.


BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The Bear River Stake Relief Society con-
ference convened at Garland Thursday, Jan.
11, 1912, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., President
Julia A. Richards presiding.
	General Relief Society President Emme-
line B. Wells and Sister Edna May Davis,
members of the general board, both of Salt
Lake City, and Sister Emelia D. Madsen of
Brigham City were present. The Stake
Presidency, four high councilors, four bish-
ops, two counselors and nine members of
the Relief Society Stake board were in at-
tendance.
	After opening exercises, remarks were
made by President Julia A. Richards, who
also read a summary of the work done in
the Stake since its organization in 1908 up
to Dec. 31, 1911. A financial report of the
stake was read by Treasurer Alice S. Lar-
son and duly accepted. The other speakers
of the forenoon session were Sisters Emelia
Madsen, Edna May Davis and our beloved
President Emmeline B. Wells, to hear
whom was indeed a great privilege, enjoyed
by all.
	At the close of forenoon session Coun-
selor Esther Evans stepped forward and
called the congregation to order, and stated
that Sister Celesta Hunsaker had something
she desired to say in behalf of the Relief
Societies of the Stake. In a few well chosen
words she presented President Julia A.
Richards with a beautiful toilet set. Pres-
ident Richards responded, expressing her
appreciation for the sisters’ manifestations
of love.
	At the conclusion of the meeting the con-
gregation was given the privilege of shak-
ing hands with President E. B. Wells.
	During noon hour lunch was served to
all present.
	At the afternoon session, after opening
exercises, Sister Eva J. Lillywhite gave a
very interesting talk on the subject of
“Home Work for Little Folks.”
	On account of President Richards moving
from this stake to Brigham City, she was
honorably released as President of stake
Relief Society with a hearty vote of thanks
for her faithful and efficient labors, and Sis-
ter Margaret W. Manning, who has acted
as stake secretary since the organization of
the stake, was unanimously accepted to fill
the vacancy, with Sisters Esther C. Evans
and Effie I. Welling as her counselors. The
position of stake secretary will be filled later
on.  All the board members remain the
same with the exception of Sister Eva J.
Lillywhite, who was honorably released, ow-
ing to other duties.
	The conference was then addressed by
Stake President Milton H. Welling, Sister
Edna M. Davis and President E. B. Wells,
encouraging the sisters in the performance
of their duties and the great blessings en-
joyed in the Relief Society work.
	After singing and benediction, conference
adjourned for six months.
	At the close of conference, Brother D. E.
Manning took the visiting sisters, in com-
pany with some of the stake officers, for a
drive to the sugar factory, then back to the
Garland library. They were shown through
the library, and Sister Wells expressed her-
self as being much pleased with the efforts
of the library board in establishing such a
well-kept and nicely-equipped library.
		MARGARET W. MANNING,
							Secretary.


SKETCHES FROM THE LIFE OF
	EUNICE BILLINGS SNOW.
