[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: How to Make a Homemade Fireless Cooker]

How to Make a Homemade Fireless Cooker I he materials needed arc a box, or some other outside container, some good packing material, a kettle for holding the food, a container for the kettle or a lining for the nest in which the kettle is to he placed, and a cushion or pad of insulating material to cover the top of the kettle. For the outside container a tightly built wooden box, an old trunk or small barrel may he used. The box should have a hinged cover, and at the front side a hook and staple or some device for holding the cover down. The container must be large enough for at least 4 inches of packing material all around the nest in which the kettle is placed. Kettle used for cooking should he durable and free from seams or crevices; should have perpendicular sides, and the covers should be as flat as possible and provided with a deep rim shutting well down into the kettle to retain the steam. The size of the kettle should he determined by the quantity of food to he cooked. As an extra source of heat a piece of soapstone. brick, or a stove lid may he used. This is heated and placed in the nest under the cooking vessel. In case these are used there must he a metal lining to the nest to prevent fire. For the packing and insulating material, asbestos and mineral wool are the best. Ground cork, hay, excelsior, wool, and crumpled paper, are satisfactory. Crumpled paper is probably the rest of the last named materials. To pack the container with paper, crush single sheets of newspaper between the hands. Tack a layer at least 4 inches deep over the bottom of the outside container, tramping or pounding it in. Stand the container for the cooking vessel, or the lining for the nest, in the center of this layer and pack more crushed paper arent it as solidly as possible. When an extra source of heat is to he used, it is much safer to pack the fumeless cooker with some non inflammable material. If fireproof packing is not used line the nest with asbestos paper. Packing material should come to the top of the container for the kettle. ,-a

nd the box should lack about 4 inches of being full. Make a cushion or pad to fill completely the space between the top of the packing and the cover of the hox after the hot kettles are put in place. Make this of heavy goods, such as denim, and stuffed with cotton, crumpled paper, or excelsior.