[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Diantha Lowry Reid]

 By Diantha Lowry Reid. Conditions of the Pioneers in Salt Lake Valley during the winter of '47 were anything but pleasant. The fort which they had built was surrounded on the north, west, and south sides by an adobe wall, while log-houses formed the south side. These houses were built with the front facing the inside of the fort, but each one had a look-out in the east side from which to watch Lorenzo D. Young's house being the only afterwards one built outside the fort. It stood where the Beehive house was built. The first part of the winter was somewhat mild, still there was rain and snow which, however, melted and came through the roofs of the houses much the same as if there had been no roof at all, and the women would often have to do their work while holding an umbrella over them. Mice of a large size gave them much trouble; also bed-bugs, which had been brought from the mountains in the green timber. The Indians were numerous, though they did not give the pioneers much trouble, other than begging, but they fought among themselves. The year 1847 had been such an eventful year to this little band of Pioneers; they had left their comfortable homes, crossed the trackless plains, reached this region inhabited only by the red man and wild animals, to make their new homes. Arriving in July, they had some little time to build before the winter came upon them; but the year was swiftly drawing to its close, it was New Year's eve; Christmas day was not celebrated in the early Pioneer days. The arduous work of the day was done  for they were a busy people they had laid their tired bodies down to rest with their minds filled with the events of the past year the comfortable homes, the pleasant scenes they had been compelled to leave, with doubts and fears and hopes for the coming year. But in their hearts was peace, for they knew that the hand of God was over all, and had led them here, and could still protect them. Snow had fallen during the day, but in the evening the clouds disappeared, and the stars shone forth. Darkness silently spread near shroud over the earth, and night in her glory reigned supreme. There in the midst of that broad valley, by the side of the frozen stream, stood that humble little fort, like a speck upon a vast plain. To the north and east were the towering mountains, like sentinels still, as the ages past and gone true to their vitals over all that nestled at their feet. The valley stretched 
 away to the south in an even, unbroken plain, while far to the west  spreading itself over miles and miles, lay that wonderful salt sea, its waters shimmering, sparkling in the pale light of the new moon as it slowly settled itself to rest behind the western horizon; and over all this scene lay the soft mantle of newly fallen snow. We may imagine that from the flag staff on Ensign peak, hung the emblem of peace, and ever and anon unfolded itself to the breezes, as a silent reminder to that little hand that the Stars and Stripes still waved over the homes of the brave. In their dreams, they heard their church-bells tolling a solemn dirge as they had farewell to the parting year, gone, gone forever, to add one more scene to old Father Time. Now they peel forth their welcome to the birth of the New Year; they hear the merry jests of the dancers as their feet keep time to the music that floats out upon the night air, as they dance the old year out, and the New Year in. This is a dream of the past, for in reality the scenes that surrounded our pioneers were far different. In the distance, along the creek, to the east, scattered here and there, is the wigwam of the red man, and as their fires, which are never allowed to go out, burn low. a dusky form appears to replenish their store of fuel. The blaze casts its fitful glare out over the snow-covered earth, causing the shadows of root objects to rise and fall like the forms of some marauder trying to escape in the darkness. The silence is suddenly disturbed by a succession of quick, sharp barks, with a prolonged, weird howl of some lonesome wolf; its mate some distance off catches up the note, and passes it on to the next of its kind, until there are hundreds chanting their hideous yells, which make the hills and valley echo, and re-echo with their unwanted discord. Night wanes, and the morning dawns bright and clear. Within that little fort, there is the hustle of life as friend greets friend with the old familiar wish,  "Happy New Year." During the day, they gather together in worship, and praise their God from whom all blessings flow. Another year has sprung into existence, and they wonder what to harvest will bring. COVER YOUR VALISES. A suit case or valise that is allowed to be knocked about in automobiles and stages soon becomes shabby if not disreputable. Buy a couple of yards of duck or linen, or some strong, dark colored material: set in two pieces at each of the folded pieces: bind and sew buttons on to fasten over valise.