[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Object, Origin and Destiny of Women Prest. John Taylor]

Object, Origin and Destiny of Women The following is taken from The Mormon, published in New York City by the late President John Taylor, of August 29, 1857, the paper containing it being furnished us by Robert Mann, of Plain City: The Latter-day Saints have often been ridiculed on account of their belief in the pre-existence of spirits and in marrying for time and for all eternity, both being Bible doctrines. We have often been requested to give our views in relation to these principles, but considered the things of the kingdom belonged to the children of the kingdom, therefore, not meet to give them to those without. But being very politely requested by a lady a few days since (a member of the Church) to answer the following questions, we could not consistently refuse;  viz., "Where did I come from? What is my origin? What am I doing here? Whither am I going? and, What is my destiny, after having obeyed the truth, if faithful to the end?" For her benefit and all others concerned we will endeavor to answer the questions in brief, as we understand them. The reason will be apparent for our belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity. Lady  whence comest thou? Thine origin? What art thou doing here? Whither art thou going, and what is thy destiny? Declare unto me if thou hast understanding? Knowest thou not. that thou art a spark of Deity, struck from the fire of His eternal blaze, and brought forth in the midst of eternal burnings? Knowest thou not that eternities ago, thy spirit, pure and holy, dwelt in thy Heavenly Father's bosom, and in His presence, and with thy mother, one of the queens of heaven, surrounded by thy brother and sister spirits in the spirit world, among the gods? That as thy spirit beheld the scenes transpiring there, and thou growing in intelligence, thou sawest worlds organized and peopled with thy kindred spirits, took upon them tabernacles, died, were resurrected, and received their exaltation on the redeemed worlds they once dwelt upon. Thou being willing and anxious to imitate them, waiting and desirous to obtain a body, a resurrection and exaltation also, and having obtained permission, thou made a covenant with one of thy kindred spirits to be thy guardian angel while in mortality, also with two others, male and female spirits, that thou wouldst come and take a tabernacle through their lineage, and become one of their offspring. Thou also chose a kindred 
 spirit whom you loved in the spirit world, (and had permission to come to this planet and take a tabernacle ) to be your head, stay, husband and protection on the earth and to exalt you in the eternal worlds. All these were arranged, likewise the spirit that should tabernacle through lineage. Thou Longed, thou sighed, and thou prayed to the Heavenly lather for the time to arrive when thou couldst come to this earth, which had fled and fallen from where it was first organized, near the planet Kolob; leave thy father and mother's bosoms and all thy kindred spirits, come to earth, take a tabernacle, and imitate the deeds of those you had seen exalted before you. At length the time arrived and thou heard the voice of thy Father, saying, go daughter to yonder lower world, and take upon thee a tabernacle and work out thy probation with fear and trembling and rise to exaltation. But daughter, remember you go on this condition, that is, that you are to forget all things you ever saw, or knew to be transacted in the spirit world; you are not to know or remember anything concerning the same that you have seen transpire here; but you must go and become one of the most helpless of all beings that I have created, while in your infancy; subject to sickness, pain, tears, mourning, sorrow and death. But when truth shall touch the cords of your heart they will vibrate; intelligence shall illumine your mind, and shed its lustre in your stud, and you shall begin to understand the things you once knew, but which had gone from you; you shall then begin to understand and know the object of your creation. Daughter, go. and be faithful in your second estate, keep it as faithful as thou hast thy first estate. Thy spirit filled with joy and thanksgiving, rejoiced in thy lather, and rendered praise to his holy name, and the spirit world resounded in anthems of praise and rejoicing to the Father of spirits. Thou bade bather and mother and all farewell, and along with thy guardian angel, thou came on this terraqueous globe. The spirits thou had chosen to come and tabernacle through their lineage, and your head having left the spirit world some years previous, thou came a spirit pure and holy; thou hast taken upon thyself a tabernacle, thou hast obeyed the truth, and thy guardian angel ministers unto thee and watches over thee. Thou hast chosen him who loved thee in the spirit to be thy companion. Now crowns, thrones, exaltations and dominions are in reserve for thee in eternal worlds, and the way is opened for thee to return back into the presence of thy Heavenly bather, if thou wilt only abide by and walk in a celestial law. fill the designs of thy creation and hold out to the end. That when mortality is laid in the tomb, you may go down to your grave in peace, arise in glory, and receive your everlasting