[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

Home Science Department. By Jancis A. Hyde. In the lesson work prepared for the summer months, we have given very simple and practical methods for the preparation and care of vegetables and fruit. We recommend these suggestions to the careful consideration of all our readers, as we feel assured of successful results from carrying out these ideas. In Ogden stake, we saw the practical demonstration of the winter possibilities of bottled chicken, asparagus tips, beans, peas, and strawberries. Even the homely dandelion had been bottled for table use, and looked as edible and delicious as any of the other vegetables, and by far, the cheapest of any on display. (Let the children gather the dandelions from the lawns, fields, and sidewalks, and" clean them thoroughly for mother to put up in jars). Dandelions contain more iron than spinach. We feel that in these times of real need of conservation, that our sisters will not be found wanting in their duty; it is a national call for us, now, to help in every way possible. The eyes of the whole world are turned toward the women of this nation, with anxious waiting, to see if we will measure up to the high standard which the" American women have always held. We will be compared to the brave and resourceful, courageous women of Belgium, France, and England, who have given so much to assist their countries at war, and who have so far proved equal to every emergency and task. Not only have they given up husbands and sons, but many have gone into the battle field, as nurses, cooks, helpers in real army life, beside assaying the civic and public duties, hitherto undertaken by men only. If called upon, are we prepared to meet such demands, with as much honor as these women have done? feel in our hearts, that we can hear you all answer, "Yes," and know that in this hour of need, we are preparing for the great emergencies which await us. The first duty. then, for our women, is to study the food problems, conserve food resources, and get every ounce of nutriment from the food prepared. the study of food your sacred duty, that you may understand a properly balanced meal. Prepare the food 'in such a way, that there shall be no waste; serve only the amount necessary for each individual. all left-overs into appetizing and nutritious dishes. Put the word save on everybody's lips not miserly saving, but wise produced, and discreet economy. We must see to it that more food is as well as saved, that those countries depending upon us, shall be supplied, and not want because of our neglect or waste. 
 We arc told by those who know, that millions of children have been underfed, and are slowly starving, that the tables of many moderately well-to-do, and successful people have been lacking in the varieties of food that growing children need, in order that they may properly develop. Medical experts are sending out these words of warning, and the people must give heed, and render every assistance possible. This is the first duty of every woman, and those who refuse to accept this call are lacking in patriotism, just as much as the man who refuses to enlist and serve his country's cause. We hear the questions asked, "What does it all mean?" and "How shall we begin?" Professor O. S. Morgan, chairman of food and agriculture in Columbia University, tells us in a professional way, just what to do. He says that under the present milling standard, that seventy-two per sent of wheat grained is contained in the flour, the rest is wasted. That if the women would all agree that their families should eat nothing but bread made of whole-wheat Hour, instead of the high patent flour, the percentage of grain contained in flour, would be increased ninety per cent; and four bushels of wheat would produce as much flour as is now produced with five bushels. That if the housewife will cook the potatoes with their skins on, instead of paring away the best part of them, from twelve to fifteen per cent of the food value will be saved. Then, too, if the American housewife will can more fruit and vegetables at home, instead of buying from the stores, they would save twenty-five per cent of the cost of living. Especially does he ask this of the farmer's wife, who could produce on plots of ground now vacant and idle, thus supplying the home with the necessary provisions to be stored for future use, as well as producing for those who cannot do so. This is the time to correct the unpardonable fault of wasting food. Suggest also to your farmer husbands that they take care of their farm implements. A five hints for gardening: Don't try to grow too much in a small space. You may be assured of a steady supply of vegetables in such crops as peas, beans, and lettuce, if planted every three or four weeks, whenever the space is available. The quickest crops to mature are turnips, lettuce, peas, beets, and beans  these usually require from six to nine weeks. Blossom time of peaches and plums, etc., is a guide time for sowing in the open ground. Spinach heads the list of prolific greens. It is the most popular of all garden plants grown for greens. It requires cool, damp weather. Spinach planted for fall use, does not interfere with garden space for summer gardens. It supplies an abundance of HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 397 greens for the average family for early autumn. Spinach is a good body builder  it contains iron. Planting sweet corn. Begin as soon as the soil is warm  successive plantings may be made every two or three weeks until late summer. Another method of prolonging the supply, is to plant early, medium and late varieties. The seed should be planted about two inches deep in rows three feet apart, and thinned to a single stalk, every ten to fourteen inches. Don't plant poor varieties. Salsify or Oyster Plant. This is a splendid vegetable for winter use. Don't forget to plant some for this season. It is an all season crop; it grows slowly and is ready for use in late fall and winter. Keep posted on insects, and be prepared to fight them. Get an early start, it is very important. Tomato Plants. In setting out tomato plants, .do not crowd them, give plenty of room. Beans. It is still time and always time to plant beans; no garden soil is too rich. Good drainage is also necessary. The scarcity of potash puts wood-ashes to the fore. The potash found in wood-ashes, is one of the best forms for the use of plants. The unleashed is better than the leached, as it contains from four to seven per cent more potash than the leached. Beside containing potash, wood-ashes contain about two per cent of nitrogen and twenty per cent lime. Blight. Plants most affected by certain forms of blight are potatoes, cucumbers, celery, egg-plant, and tomatoes. Bordeux mixture sprayed on these plants will help to prevent or check the development of this disease. CONSERVATION NOTES. The Conservation and Home Economics Committee of the General Board have arranged for enough A. C. teachers to visit every stake Relief Society in Utah during the fruit and vegetable season to give a public demonstration on canning and drying. In connection with this, we have secured a wholesale price on pressure cookers, $1.00 laid down at your town, on a cooker of 200 or 400 quart capacity a day, that retails for $18.00. Each 
 ward should take one of these for community use, and to loan about to members. The Consolidated Wagon & Machine Company of this city have opened their warerooms to store them. details have been furnished stake presidents in the circular letter already sent out. ATTENTN. We urgently request the chairman of the Home Economics to keep in touch with the condition and development of the vegetables and fruits in her own district, that she may be prepared to telegraph or telephone to the Agricultural College about ten days or a week before maturing all such crops  the expense of telegram to be borne by the Agricultural College, notifying them when the women of her section will be ready for a demonstration. FRUIT PRESSERS. We also recommend the Home Economic leaders to investigate the desire of the women in their societies, for the ownership of the fruit pressers which can be purchased at from $2.00 to $2.50, at any of the hardware stores. FRUIT EVAPORATORS. The Agricultural College is demonstrating the practicability of fruit and vegetable evaporators and dryers which we hope to be able to recommend to our societies in our next issue. NEED OK CLASS JARS OR ENAMELED TIN CANS. We ask the presidents to make a survey of their societies and ascertain how many fruit jars and enameled tin cans may be needed for use in the putting up of vegetables and fruits in the coming season. Wire Dr. E. G. Peterson, Agricultural College. Logan, the number needed. By so doing, we think we can also get a great reduction on the price of these two articles by ordering in carload lots.