[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Epistle to the Relief Society Concerning War Times]

Dear Sisters: It is natural that our hearts and emotions are
stirred to the utmost in this crucial time of the world's history.
At present our country is at war with another great and
powerful nation. We would invite your strict attention to the
remarks made by President Joseph F. Smith in our last conference
:
"the spirit which the latter-day saints should manifest
IN WAR.
"Speaking of the possibility of conflict, of war, I exhort my
friends, the people of our country, especially in this intermountain
region, to maintain above all other things the spirit of humanity,
of love, and of peace-making, that even though they may
be called into action they will not demolish, override and destroy
the principles which we believe in, which we have tried to inculcate,
and which we are exhorted to maintain ; peace and good
will toward all mankind, though we may be brought into action
with the enemy. I want to say to the Latter Day Saints who may enlist and whose services the country may require, that when they become soldiers of the State and of the Nation that they will not
forget that they are also soldiers of the Cross, that they are ministers
of life and not of death ; and when they go forth, they
may go forth in the spirit of defending the liberties of mankind
rather than for the purpose of destroying the enemy. If we could
convert them to peaceful ways and to the love of peace without
destroying them, we would become saviors of men. And it is
abominable that men who engage in the great and grand and
necessary duty of protecting and guarding our Nation from the
encroachments of wicked enemies, cruel and destructive foes,
should not maintain among themselves lives of honor, virtue, purity
and of immunity from sin and crime of every kind. It is a
disgraceful thought that a man to become a soldier should become
a rake and abandon himself to crime and wickedness. Let the soldiers that go out from Utah be and remain men of honor.
And when they are called obey the call, and manfully meet the
duty, the dangers, or the labor, that may he required of them, or
that they may he set to do; hut to do it with an eye single to the
accomplishment of the good that is aimed to be accomplished,
and not with the blood-thirsty desire to kill and destroy."
If our sons are called to go to the front, it is in this spirit
that we want them to accept the call, and we shall remain at home
in faith and with courage that they shall be .preserved in life or
in death in the faith of the gospel."
'We urgently advise all our sisters to keep the even tenor of
their ways, making homes clean, comfortable and peaceful; administer
int he spirit of love and patience to your husbands and to
your children; guard the little ones; do not permit them to imbibe
the spirit of intolerance or hatred to any nation or to any
people; keep firearms out of their hands; do not allow them to
play at war nor to find amusement in imitating death in battle ;
inculcate the spirit of loyalty to country and flag, but help them to
feel that they are soldiers of the Cross and that if they must needs
take up arms in the defense of liberty, of country and homes they
shall do so without rancor or bitterness.
Avoid all discussions of a political and war-time nature in
your meetings and in the homes. Instruct teachers not to enter
into discussions concerning the war, especially in homes where
naturalized foreigners live. Teach the peaceable things of the
kingdom. Keep cool ; cultivate the spirit of calmness, love and
peace. Do not lose your head, for a distracted person has neither
sense nor sanity.
Look after the needy more diligently than ever. In these
times of raised prices and inflated food values we fear that there
are those who may suffer in silence for want of a helping hand.
Y<>ur duty lies first to these in your locality. Remember the aged
and care for the orphans and widows. So long have the women
of thi< Society been trained in the kindly virtues of generosity
and noble charity that we have little fear concerning your attitude
in this crisis. Our only fear is lest some of our more generous
members allow themselves to become over-zealous and over-enthusiastic,
thus wasting strength, time and means.
Many questions come to us concerning our attitude towards
national and local patriotic organizations. The General Board have appointed a War Relief Committee, with Mrs. Clarissa Smith-Williams as chairman of the Committee. All of our efforts to assist with means, with clothing, or food supplies, indeed any and
every phase of loyal assistance to our government, will be placed
under the direct charge of this committee. Proper instructions,
with all necessary details will be forwarded in good time to our
stake presidents. Meanwhile, the important thing is to be patient and calm. We don't want to knit np quantities of wristers and
socks which may prove unsatisfactory or unnecessary, because of
haste and lack of concerted action. When we move, we want to
move as a solid unit. This is our greatest world opportunity to
prove the superiority of our methods, our ideals and our long
training. We have long been told we should lead the world —
let us not forget that leaders are wise — leaders are never stampeded,
leaders are obedient to law. Above all, we want to so clarify
our plans and unify our action that whatever we accomplish
shall glorify this Society and the Church through supreme efficiency
and concerted action.
Be assured that the woman who plants and reaps this year,
who saves and economizes, is rendering her country her greatest
possible service. An army travels on its stomach. Potatoes are
needed more than wristers, beans more than socks. Millions of
city women can and will knit for the soldiers and sailors, but only
women in agricultural districts may help to avert the famine and
want which is likely to sweep the whole world.
We are gratified to notice in the telegraphic dispatches that
the Woman's National Defense Committee, appointed by President
Wilson, of which Dr. Anna Howard Shaw is president, and
which organization stands at the head of all the societies, clubs,
and associations of women in the United States, named Mrs. Clarissa
S. Williams as Utah chairman. We rejoice in the enlarged
opportunity this offers, and feel sure that results will prove to the
headquarters in Washington, as well as to our own members, the
wisdom of this choice.
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde has also been chosen by the Governor
to act upon the Utah State Food Conservation Committee. This
action permits the wider scope of our associations with the Agricultural
College at Logan and with the food question generally
throughout the State. Our Committee have all plans matured for
demonstrations in canning and drying vegetables and fruits, to be
held in every stake during the summer season.
In all our labors, however, we desire to keep closely together,
under the banner of the Relief Society, not diverting our
resources or scattering- our energies by joining with this and that
movement and organization. There is plenty of scope and opportunity
for every gift, talent, and effort of the women of this people
in the Relief Society, and we would always invite your loyal
devotion to the interests and objects of this great organization.
OUR MISSION IS TO HELP THE OPPRESSED AND NEEDY.
Prest. Smith said further :
"Charity, or love, is the greatest principle in existence. If
we can lend a "helping hand to the oppressed, if we can aid those
who are despondent and in sorrow, if we can uplift and ameliorate the condition of mankind, it is onr mission to do it. it is
an essential part of our religion to do it. And I say to our friends
present that we have an organization in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints that is perfect in its operation, by
which we may call today to almost the whole Church, for aid, and
tomorrow we will receive returns with the generous contributions
that are freely given for a good cause, and it will cost nobody
a cent. Every dime contributed for the benefit of the poor goes
to the poor, and is not consumed by charitable organizations,
who collect and handle means intended for the poor, and are
paid for their services, thus absorbing a large percentage of the
means contributed for the benefit of the poor, by those who are
not poor. I wish to announce that to our friends. The Latter-day
Saints know this, they understand it. They have recollection of
recent events in which, within twenty-four hours or thereabouts,
the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
contributed somewhere near $35,OCO. and it was sent to the
afflicted people of Europe that were suffering; in consequence of
war. and it was put into hands who would distribute it wisely to
those who needed, without cost to anybody; and a portion of that
fund, which was not distributed, remains to be dealt out to those
who are really in need as their circumstances require."
We close this epistle with another extract from the inspired
discourse of President Smith, at our last conference. Let this be
on watchword and let these sentiments animate every woman in
the Relief Society :
"We admonish, we beseech our brothers and sisters in the
gospel of Jesus Christ, not only to honor themselves by a proper
course of living, but also to honor and love and be charitable to
your neighbors, every one of you. We admonish you not only to
keep the greatest of all the commandments that has ever been
given of God to man, to love the Lord your God, with all your
heart and mind and strength, but we exhort you also to observe
that second law. next unto it. to love your neighbors as yourselves;
return good for evil, do not revile others because you
arc or may be reviled. We have no need to tear .down the houses
of other people (using this expression as a symbol). We are perfectly
willing that they should live in the homes they have erected
for themselves, and we will try to show them a better way. While
we will not condemn that which they love and cherish above all
other things in the world, we will endeavor to show them a better
way and build them a better home and then invite them kindly,
in the spirit of Christ, of true Christianity, to enter the better
dwelling. That is the principle, and T wish to impress it upon
you." Emmeline P. Wells, President,
Clarissa S. Williams, 1st counselor,
Julina L. Smith, 2nd counselor