[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Ballad]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 641
Literature The Bible as Literature Lesson 4The Bible Ballad Tuesday, January 18, 1944 HEROIC days produce stories that are often transmitted through ballads down the ages.
Lads may be briefly suggested by calling them story-songs.
Tales of Robin Hood and His Merry Men are.
Examples of this type of literature. In verse form, easily learned by heart, the popular stories of these Englishmen, who had taken to the greenwoods in protest against Norman tyranny, were "half said, half sung" as Scott puts it, and passed from generation to generation. In a lyric, a story is just suggested. In a ballad, the story is sketched. In a narrative, the story is told with detail. The ballad, in other words, is a story in essentials, given musicallyoften with "echo lines" to bind it more closely together. Generally, the ballad deals with but one dramatic incident.
Rhythmic effects are usually distinctive, often striking.
Ballads of the Robin Hood type are, of course,-not to be found in the Bible. Indeed, there are but few selections in Bible literature that may be classified as truly of the ballad type. One reason for this may perhaps be that Bible stories are usually almost as compressed as a ballad. Another, of course, is that Bible literature has its own distinguishing These balcharacteristics. In form, it does not parallel closely other literary forms. One of the examples that approaches the ballad type is found in Judges Five, Deborah's Song. A comparative study of this chapter with that of Chapter Four, helps one to get a clearer idea of the straight narrative story, and that of the ballad or song-story type.
Back of these two chapters is of course the larger story leading up to the conquest of the Promised Land, and the distribution of the Tribes of Israel over their reclaimed realm. Joshua, you will remember, after crossing the Jordan, and after the triumph over Jericho, whose walls fall before his army, sweeps through the land of Canaan, defeating most of the tribes that have taken possession of it. Yet, despite the swiftness of his conquest, he fails to give heed to the Lord and sweep away the enemies of Israel "root and branch."
This failure brings on a series of troubles.
Round about the conquered realm are various peoples Midianites, Hittites, Philistines, and othersready to fight to get back the lands from which they have been driven.
After the distributing ofthe Twelve Tribes over the various parts of Canaan allotted to them, there is 642 no central government from which they can be directed, especially in a military sense. A high priest is what may be called the chief ruler and he is concerned, it would seem, with administering spiritual matters. Enemies, taking advantage of this, begin to prey upon the tribes most vulnerable to attack. At the outset, the trouble comes mainly in the great plain of Esdraelon, an open country near the center of the land of Canaan.
Gradually these attacks by the enemy are increased, until something has to be done to meet them. In Judges Four we are told the story in characteristic Biblical style, with straight, clear strokes and concreteness. It begins: And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord, when Ehud was dead. And the Lord sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, which dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles. And the children of Israel cried unto the Lord: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel. And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel at that time. And she dwelt under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment. And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh-naphtali, and said unto him, Hath not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun? And I will draw unto thee to the river Kishon Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thine hand. And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go: but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go. And she said, I will surely go with thee: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEOCTOBER 1943 notwithstanding the journey that thou takest shall not be for thine honor; for the Lord shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kedesh. And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.
Thus the story continues to move forward step by step, telling of the defeat of Sisera and of his flight and death at the hand of the wife of Heber the Kenite. It is a straight prose narrative rising to a climax with the final victory over Jabin the king and his destruction by the Israelites. Naturally, at the conclusion of this triumph over an enemy who had enslaved them for a score of years, there would be an outburst of rejoicing. It comes in much the same spirit as that which followed the escape of the Israelites at the Red Sea, though in a somewhat different form. In Deborah's Song (Judges Five) we have the story sketched with bursts of music portraying various emotions as the triumph is depicted. Dr.
Moulton in his Modern Reader's Bible, pp. 223-225, presents the Biblical ballad in part as follows: (See also The Bible Designed to be Read As Living Literature, by Ernest Bates, pp. 180-181.) Deborah's Song For that the leaders took the lead in Israel For that the people offered themselves willingly Bless ye the Lord! In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, In the days of Jael, The highways were unoccupied, And the travelers walked through byways; The rulers ceased in Israel, They ceased LESSON DEPARTMENT Until that I, Deborah, arose, That I arose a mother in Israel.
They chose new gods; There was war in the gates: Was there a shield or spear seen Among forty thousand in Israel?
Then the people of the Lord went down to the gates Awake, awake Deborah, Awake, awake, utter a song:  Arise, Barak, And lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam. The kings came and fought; Then fought the kings of Canaan, In Taanach by the waters of Megiddo: They took no gain of money!
They fought from heaven, The stars in their courses fought against Sisera. The river Kishon swept them away, That ancient river, the river Kishon! Oh my soul, march on with strength!
Then did the horsehoofs stamp By reason of the pransings The pransing of their strong ones.
Following the above lines comes the rest of the story, telling of the death of the king, of the mother looking vainly for his return in triumph.
Then with swift stroke the ballad ends with So let all thine enemies perish, O Lord: But let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. It is.
Timely here to retell a story that came out of the reconquest of 643 the land 'of Palestine during World War I.
During a battle with the Turks, a detachment of English lancers, it is said, made an attempt to charge the enemy across the '"'ancient river Kishon"named in the foregoing poem.
Several of these horsemen went down in the quicksand of the river.
When the leader was brought before the commander to report the disaster to his troops, he was asked, "Don't you ever read your Bible? It was this same old river that helped bring defeat to Sisera."
Discussion and Activities 1.
Explain the basic meaning of the term ballad.
What rather old-fashioned song do you know that is ballad-like? Why? 2. So far as the story part goes, what is the essential difference between a lyric and a ballad? A ballad and a story? Illustrate. 3.
Read all the story of Deborah as given in Judges Four.
Then read the storysong as given in Judges Five.
What is one basic difference that you observe between the two accounts of the same incident? 4.
Find in Deborah's Song (Judges Five) some lines (two or three of them) that seem especially musical. 5.
Choose from this Biblical ballad two or more words or phrases that bring a vivid picture to you. 6. Try reading parts of the ballad (Judges Five) aloud to note the vivid word pictures they bring. PRONOUNCING VOCABULARY Abinoam a bin' am Anath a' nath Barak ba' rak Deborah db' o rah Ehud  hid Esdraelon s dra e' lon Harosheth ha ro' sheth Hazor ha' zor Hittites hit' tites Jabin ja' bin Jael ja' el Kedesh-Naphtali k' desh naf' tai Kenite kn' ite Philistines fi lis' tins Kishon ki' shn Taanach ta' a nak Lapidoth lap' idth  Sisera sis' era Megiddo m gid' d Zebulun zb' u lin Midianites mid' ian ites