[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science The Citizenship]
Social Science What "America" Means Lesson l0The Sacredness of American Citizenship Tuesday, January 25, 1944 We Americans have many grave problems to solve, many threatening evils to fight, and many deeds to do, if, as we hope and believe, we have the wisdom, the strength, the courage, and the virtue to do them.... Our nation is that one among all the nations of the earth which holds in its hands the fate of the coming years. We enjoy exceptional advantages, and we are menaced by exceptional dangers; and all signs indicate that we shall either fail greatly or succeed greatly.... We shall never be successful over the dangers that confront us; we shall never achieve true greatness, nor reach the lofty ideals which the founders and preservers of our mighty Federal Republic have set before us, unless we are Americans in heart and soul, in spirit and purpose.Theodore Roosevelt. E have tried to show in the preceding lessons of this course that the United States has republican or representative form of government, and that the sacred rights and privileges of it are common to all its people. Its grant of religious and civic liberty to all its citizens is one of the noblest gifts to mankind in history, and the truest thing that can be said of our Government is that only human beings of a high degree of mental and moral fitness can appreciate its gifts, for the more perfect people become, the less control by laws do they need. Our Government was grounded in religion, and though religion did not become a part of its political system, it was virtually incorporated into the feelings and lives of the people.
This can easily be accounted for. The Christian sects of Europe found asylum in America before the Revolutionary War, and the Constitution of the United States provided for freedom to worship God as people wished. The American people have naturally been religious, and allied to their religious character is reverence for the Founding Fathers who dedicated their fortunes and pledged their sacred honor for the creation of the United States.
When the first Continental Congress met in Carpenter's Hall in Philadelphia, September 5, 1774, delegates from all the Colonies, except, Georgia, had come to talk over their rights as Englishmen and to 

 OCTOBER 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT make protests to the King of England because of grievances against the Government. This Congress led to the Second Continental Congress which issued to the world the Declaration of Independence. At the first session of the Congress, it was moved and seconded that the assembly be opened with prayer.
While some objections were raised to the motion, it was finally carried and the Reverend Jacob Duche, Rector of Christ's Church in Philadelphia, was called in, and he opened the session with a fervent prayer.
From that time to the present, every session of Congress has been opened by divine invocation, and the custom has become common in all the states when their legislative bodies meet.
There is significance in the fact that the First Continental Congress was opened by prayer. It means that from the first our Government was dedicated to God, and the land consecrated to His holy purposes. 'They were select groups of Englishmen who settled these shores.
Deep were their ideals of religion; holy was their concept of home life.
They had as a rule been persecuted, but the people who go into a new country and have a long and perilous journey to make, develop unusual courage and determination, strong initiative, and strong convictions. As soon as the struggle for existence was over, the people began to assert themselves in new institutions.
Town and county governments were developed, and these units of government were democratic, for the people met in meetings and made their own laws and appointed their own officers to enforce the laws made.
Universal education was encouraged, and people 645 were free to work out their own destiny.
Many new institutions were evolved, and women were freer than their sisters in the Old World.
They occupied a more important place in society.
Class distinction was abolished, and birth and money counted for nothing in redeeming the new country. A dominant individualism grew up, and ideals of equality, freedom of opportunity, and faith in the common man became deeply rooted in this New World.
With the development of the country and the quest for the unknown, the people came to have a clearly defined conception of what "democracy" meant. All had a right to take part in government, both local and national. All had the right to vote for representatives to state and national legislative assemblies and for the men who should execute the laws.
