[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Home Topics Floors and]
Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925> PP: 447-449 " < Home Topics For optional use on Work-and-Business Day Modern Housekeeping Methods Lesson 3Floors and Floor Coverings Tuesday, December 14, 1943. Of all the ways of getting on in the world, the shortest and best is to make people believe that it will be to their interest to help you along.La Bruyere. THE home affords the best environment for learning management, and family cooperation is an important factor in the successful management of homes in today's busy world. The parent needs to realize the importance of housekeeping experience for the child as a means of development, and as an expeditious method of solving housekeeping problems. Pressure of many kinds causes mothers to say, "It takes less time to do it myself." This statement reflects a lack of recognition of the important place management plays in living in a modern world, as well as the value of family effort in housekeeping. At different periods of time, the customs and habits of people have differed. 'The problems of housekeeping and homemaking have changed with each succeeding period. Weare confronted today with a situation wherein that which we have must be given great care, because of the difficulties of replacement. This is particularly true if we would preserve, in beauty, our floors and floor coverings. 'Their attractive appearance and the service which they give depend in large measure upon how they are cared for. Volumes have been written upon the subject of floors and their finishings, coverings, and care. Hard and 

 OCTOBER 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT soft pine, maple, ash, and oak are the woods most frequently used for floors.
Soft pine has the advantage of being least expensive. Oak is considered by many persons to be the best wood for floor uses, particularly if it is quarter-sawed. Maple, however, is preferred by those who like light-colored wood floors.
Wood floors that are stained, painted, oiled or waxed have grown steadily in favor and are now in general use.
These floors are usually partly covered by rugs, large or small.
There is much to be said in favor of these finished floors.
When well kept, they are very beautiful; and they may be kept so by daily dusting with a dry mop and an occasional thorough cleaning and refinishing.
Rugs used on these floors may be cleaned as often as necessary without great effort and are easily reversed, which lengthens their wear.
Thus the finished-wood and rugcovered floor is more sanitary and has other advantages over the fully carpeted floor. However, much may also be said in favor of the fully carpeted floor.
Some people object to any bare floor, particularly when it is waxed, because of the danger of slipping. This, however, can easily be overcome by using, where traffic occurs, non-skid matting under small rugs.
Many people think that wax makes the most desirable and lasting fioor finish for living rooms. The expense of this finish is somewhat more than a varnish finish because of the great amount of labor required. To keep a waxed floor in good condition it should be thoroughly cleaned at least once a year with turpentine or solvent and steel wool, 637 and then given two coats of highgrade floor wax. A soiled spot or stain may be removed from a waxfinished floor with turpentine or solvent, the spot treated, and the place covered anew with wax.
With what should one cover the kitchen floor? Of all the kitchen floor coverings in use at the present time, linoleum seems to be the most satisfactory. A linoleum floor is resilient and easy to walk tipon.
Inlaid linoleum is perhaps the most satisfactory kind.
Good linoleum is about a quarter of an inch thick and inlaid on canvas.
Inlaid linoleum has the pattern or color extending from the surface through to the burlap base.
Printed linoleum has a pattern printed on the surface only, and constant washing soon obliterates the pattern.
Linoleum may be kept in condition by waxing at frequent intervals. It may be washed with mild soap and water. The surface may be protected by a linoleum lacquer in place of, wax or varnish.
Lacquer or varnish preserves the pattern of printed linoleum, but soon wears off in places that are most used, unless measures are taken to protect these spots.
Linoleum with the pattern worn off may be painted and given an entirely new and fresh appearance. The manufacture of both linoleum and carpets is greatly cut down at the present time due to the war. The mills are weaving carpets on a monthly basis only. All dealers are on allotments, and the allotments are small. All-wool carpets are no longer made. All-cotton carpets and tugs, as well as those which are a mixture of cotton and woolsometimes cotton, wool, and rayonare now all that is being made. The various kinds of rugs and carpets which have been on the market until very recently are too numerous to discuss in this short lesson. One of the most satisfactory floor covering for living rooms, from the point of view of many decorators is broadloom carpet in a soft, dark, solid color. It must be remembered, however, in selecting rugs or carpeting that walls and floors are a background for other furnishings. Therefore, patterns and colors that "rise up and hit you"that is, startling colors and, in general, large designs are to be avoided. All rugs and carpets improve in glossiness and beauty under proper care.
Cheap or expensive, they should be vacuum cleaned in the direction they were woven.
Rugs should never be beaten or whipped.
They should never be hung over a line.
Small rugs should be brushed with a whisk broom in preference to sweeping them.
Suggestions for Study 1.
Make a visit to your carpet and linoleum dealer and procure linoleum samples and samples of carpets of different types of weave, material, etc.
Discuss with the class the characteristics and qualities of each and give suggestions for the care of each. 2.
Name several precautions to be taken in the care of large and small rugs. 3.
What are the differences between paste, liquid, and self-polishing waxes, and where can each be used to the best advantage? 4.
Distinguish between battleship, plain, jaspe and marbleized, inlaid, and printed linoleums. References America's Housekeeping Book, pp. 143- 156; 173-184
Current magazines, newspapers, and advertisements  Lesson 4Walls, Ceilings, and Woodwork For optional use on Tuesday, January 11, 1944
Knowledge has four corners. I will show you oneyou find the other three. IT is realized that the business of housekeeping has not kept pace with the tremendous advancement in other lines of human endeavor, that the wonderful discoveries in science and the developments in the arts only slowly and partially have been applied to the problems of home life. However, enough has been applied to the home to make a study of modern housekeeping methods both interesting and profit Confucius. Able. In a short course, such as we are presenting in Relief Society, we cannot discuss all that is new and better in housekeeping methods, but it is hoped that enough information will be given to help class members with some of their housekeeping problems and to stimulate them to seek further for efficient ways of doing their household tasks. In wall coverings one has the choice of many materialspaint, 

 OCTOBER 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT kalsomine, wallpapers of many kinds, grass cloth, etc. In deciding what covering to use, consideration must be given to beauty, service, and cost. In selecting a wall covering one must consider what is to be required of it. Is color that harmonizes with room furnishings of first importance, or is texture more important than color?
Will the wall covering have to withstand a great deal of cleaning, or may it go for several years with only light dusting? Is the cost too great in proportion to the service the covering will render, or will its durability justify the cost? It is important also to decide how much labor will be involved in covering the walls, and whether or not the person to do the work understands the proper handling of his materials. A good paint job is in many respects preferable to any other type. Of wall finish.
Although it is more costly than most other types, it is also more durable.
Wall paints are both glossy and dull and, of course, have a wide range of color possibilities. The colors of good paints fade very little, so that a color well chosen may give pleasure for several years.
