[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Periodic Medical Examinations of Apparently Healthy Persons]

Periodic Medical Examinations of Apparently Healthy Persons
(Continued from page 595)
Medical guidance of apparently well babies is an important factor in this result. Childhood, especially early childhood, is the time when most developmental defects appear: diseased tonsils, obstructing adenoids, tooth decay, ear trouble, defects of vision, speech abnormalities, damage to the heart valves, emotional difficulties, and many others. Surveys show that millions of American children suffer from one or more of these conditions. If discovered early, nearly all can be improved, and many of them can be entirely relieved before lifelong handicaps result; but not if medical contacts are withheld until compelling symptoms appear.
Early adult life is the period when tuberculosis and the venereal diseases take their heaviest toll. The chances for salvaging the individual and for almost every form of protection for others, center on finding the cases earlyi. e., discovery before they give symptoms. Intensive search for tuberculosis among groups of apparently well people usually reveals from five to ten times the number of cases previously known to exist. And the importance of examining the apparently well for the discovery of syphilis is attested by our recent premarital laws.
When we come to the period of middle and later life it is well to face squarely the fact that medical effort is often a compromise with more or less damaged goods. But there is all the more reason for early examination and guidance. Here the analogy of the yardstick is particularly helpful. The last inch is a poor time on which to concentrate the medical contacts. Some degenerative processes and malignant changes, even when recognized, are difficult to influence, yet there is ample evidence of the high value of early recognition in adding years of comfort and efficiency. Fifty per cent of groups made up of individuals with hypertension (high blood pressure) have shown an average reduction of 18 M. M. under medical guidance. This has meaning when we remember that according to the American Actuarial Society, a reduction of 10 M. M. of hypertension in the age group 40 to 49 decreases the chances of dying by more than one-third.
The practice of periodic medical examination is no panacea. But to say that it is highly desirable is a conservative understatement provided: One's physician is really interested and skillful in this type of work; And provided the person examined follows advice without becoming fussy or developing apprehensiveness.
 OCTOBER 1943
