Girls and Women in Wartime (Continued from page 606) The modern slogan that women are entitled to equal nghts and opportunities with men has led some women into fallacies of thought and practice that are very damaging 'to them and to the future welfare of mankind. In the first place, as to moral standards, equality of nghts and practices should mean that men should live up to the standards they expect of high-class women. To assume that women may indulge in the same practices that some men indulge in means that woman is simply degrading herself.
From another point of view equality of rights does not mean absence of differences and duties any more than does the phrase, "all men are created free and equal." The facts are, of course, that in many respects they are unequal. So in many ways men and women are different and unequal.
Each sex may be superior in some respects and inferior in other respects. The difference in biological structure and functions is self-evident. The differences psychologically and socially are not so visibly manifest but are nevertheless a fact. Men and women are complements of each other. The more fully and frankly this is recognized and the life of the family and of society organized and operated on this principle, the greater will be the success and the lasting happiness of both men and women.
While it may not be the destiny of every woman to become a wife and mother, to live worthy of motherhood in the highest and most sacred meaning of the term is her proper destiny and road to enduring happiness.
Women who have no children of their own can generally find opportunities to take a motherly interest in children of relatives, friends, and neighbors, and in this service find at least some of the satisfactions that go with successful motherhood. Any part in the creation or development of successful lives is one of the greatest contributions to religion. 
 OCTOBER 1943 in the Church Section of The Deseret News Teacher training lessons News from all stakes of the church Full page illustrated children's section Official church welfare news m, Since 1865
Many New Features!  To
BIBLE LITERATURE CLASSES
Teachers of Bible Literature classes will find these famous favorites of great worth: Smith's Bible Dictionary $2.00
With Index 2.50
One Volume Bible CommentaryDummelow.................... 2.50
Crudens (Unabridged) Concordance..........2.. 2.50
The Quotable Bible  The Holy BibleEncyclopedia & Concordance.................. 1.98
With Index 2.29 DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine At Your Bible Bookstore 44
East South Temple Street and instructions Salt Lake City 10, Utah es Mummy you're just what daddy used to say: As pretty as a picture." Heber J. Grant, Pres. COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah