[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: Spiritual Spafford]

Page 611
EDITORIAL
VOL. 30 OCTOBER 1943 NO. 10
Spiritual Strength Through Sabbath Observance
MAN is so constituted that his spiritual needs must be ministered unto even as are his physical needs; otherwise, he becomes unequal to meet with full vigor the problems of life. President Joseph F. Smith declared: "Many people are inconsistent in that they study concerning the needs of the body, and observe strictly the laws of health, yet they disregard the equally urgent needs of the spirit. For the spirit, as well as the body, needs food." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 262.)
We all recognize that there are times when pronounced strains placed upon the body make it necessary for us to give special attention to our physical well-being. So, too, there are times when the spirit of man needs special attention in order that it will be sufficiently strong to withstand unusual circumstances. Such times are upon us today. Anxiety, sorrow, and mourning are the present lot of mankind, and only those who are spiritually strong can be expected to triumph.
"But," we ask, "how may one grow strong in spirit? What are the foods which nourish this part of man?" President Joseph F. Smith gives answer in these words: "It is the purpose of the Gospel and the holy Priesthood... to benefit mankind spiritually..." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 261.) He further states that the Lord designed that the Latter-day Saint people should become the rich-
Page 612
est of all people in heavenly giftsin spiritual blessings. We must remember, however, that even though the richest of spiritual blessings are designed for Latter-day Saints, they will not come to us, as individuals, through inertia or indifferencethey will come only as the result of faithfulness and diligence. They come through knowledge and obedience, sacrifice and service. They come through keeping ourselves attuned to the mind and will of the Father.
The Father has commanded us to "remember the Sabbath Day and keep it holy." He has also told us through modern revelation: "It is expedient that the Church meet together often and partake of bread and wine in remembrance of the Lord Jesus" (Doc. & Cov. 20:75). "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day" (Doc. & Cov. 59:9).
Obedience to these commandments brings a pronounced renewal of both physical and spiritual strength. The week days of the average individual today are crowded with new and unusual tasks. The great majority of us are overworked. How easy it is, particularly for mothers who during week days are employed outside the home, to leave for the Sabbath Day odd jobs that they have been too busy to attend to on other days. Because the work demands of week days are so strenuous, they feel justified in using the Sabbath as a day for catching up on undone work, rather than as a day of rest and worship. But there is no excuse for robbing the Lord's day of its sanctity. Work should be so planned and affairs so managed that on the Sabbath we may lay aside our week-day tasks, pay our devotions to our Heavenly Father, and obtain needed physical and spiritual refreshment.
To attend sacrament meeting on the Sabbath should be regarded by Latter-day Saints not as a burdensome requirement, but as a glorious privilege. The sacrament meeting provides opportunity for us to partake of the sacrament, thereby renewing our covenants with our Heavenly Father and testifying that we are willing to serve Him and keep His commandments; it is a period wherein we may worship the Father in humility and prayer; it is an hour of repentance, and a time for meditation upon God's great plan of life and salvation. A proper observance of the duties and devotions of the Sabbath Day will give us the best rest that we can obtain, as well as a great renewal of spiritual strength.B. S. S.
Marianne C. Sharp Appointed Associate Editor of Relief Society Magazine