[Vol9 | June 1922 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Advertisements ]

Don't get discouraged when your expensive pearl buttons lose their luster. Just a little labor will brighten them up as good -as new. Soak the buttons in olive oil or a good quality of machine oil. When you take them out rub them hard with powdered pumice, talcum powder, or a good nail polish. The nail polish should always be used to finish them up with, and they will shine like well-manicured nails. Cut jet buttons should be scrubbed with a tooth brush and good soapsuds and steel and other buttons are often improved by this method. It is too much work for the ' busy housewife on the farm to remove pearl buttons from skirts or other garments when washed, and they are bound to lose their luster eventually, but a little manicuring will renew them completely. acai A Book Every Mother Should Own How the foundation for a child's health and normal growth should be laid in the home, is graphically explained in "NUTRITION AND GROWTH IN CHILDREN", by W. R. P. Emerson, pioneer and authority on the subject of foods for children. You will appreciate having this book in your home library. May mean the success of your boy or girl. $2.50. Deseret Book Company 44 E. So. Temple, Salt Lake City Price To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference,. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for your Expiration