Prohibition
The May third issue of "Signs of the Times" is a very fine prohibition number. It is recognized by churchmen and leaders of dry forces everywhere as a most complete and effective piece of literature provided for the present campaign. It will have more than a million circulation. It answers every line of argument of the wets with reliable information. We urge our readers to get copies of this issue and circulate them as widely as possible. They may be secured from "Signs of the Times," Mountain View, California, or from the Utah Book Society, 826 East 21 South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Single copies are 5c each; lots of one hundred or more are $2.50; and one thousand or more are $17.50.
The following paragraphs are taken from "Prohibition and Lawlessness:"
"There is no allegation against Prohibition more frequently made by the Wets than that the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead law caused the crime wave in the United States.
"That America is crime ridden is all too obvious; but to say that all crime or any major part of it is due to Prohibition is a horse of a different color. While it is true that we have crime with Prohibition, it is equally true that we had crime before Prohibition. This indicates that there are factors other than Prohibition in the crime problem.
"But you may ask, 'Isn't it true that crime has increased since Prohibition?'
"Yes, that is a fact, but it is also true that lawlessness was increasing year by year before Prohibition. Indeed, Calvin Coolidge reported to an American Bar Association meeting shortly after Prohibition went into effect, that 'since the year 1890 there has been an ever-increasing tide of lawlessness in this country.' Thus the increase in crime began a long thirty years before Prohibition.
"'But,' you persist, 'no matter how or when the crime wave began, isn't the infraction of the liquor laws the chief item in our crime totals today?'
"No, not by any means! In a notable address on the question of lawlessness delivered in 1929, President Hoover declared:
"'I have purposely cited the extent of murder, burglary, robbery, forgery, and embezzlement, because only a small percentage of these can be attributed to the Eighteenth Amendment. In fact, of the total number of convictions for felony last year, less than 8 per cent came from that source. That is, therefore, but a sector of the invasion of lawlessness.'
"In the introduction to the volume, The Criminal and His Allies, by one of the outstanding judges of the nation, Judge Marcus Kavanaugh of Chicago, it is said:
"'As for Prohibition, the steady increase in major crimes, which have clogged the dockets of the courts, has kept a pace quite unrelated to the comparatively minor offenses against the Eighteenth Amendment.'
"In other words, if Prohibition were blotted out right now, the sum total of our lawlessness as it now exists would not be greatly reduced."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE