Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS
(First Week in December)
SIGNIFICANCE AND PURPORT
LESSON III
1. At a special conference held at Hiram, Ohio, November 1, 1831, it was decided to publish the "Book of Commandments." Section 1 of the Doctrine and Covenants, designated by the Lord as "my preface unto the book of my commandments" was received by revelation in the afternoon of that day. The same evening it was read by Oliver Cowdery to the assembly.
2. The Lord's Preface. This revelation is remarkable in many respects. In the first place, it contains twelve hundred words of especially well-written material. The task of preparing such a literary product would ordinarily require a far longer time than that in which Joseph produced it. Then, too, it will be recalled that Joseph was the presiding officer at the conference and accordingly had his attention divided among various other matters. But with the characteristic efficiency of a Seer, he prepared the document in the afternoon and had it ready for submission the same evening.
3. In the second place, the revelation meets all of the requirements of a well-written preface. The primary object of any preface is to furnish preliminary information concerning the subject, the point of view of the author, and the manner of treatment. Section 1 meets these requirements in remarkable detail. Note, for example, that verses 1-7 form the introduction, verses 8-36 the preface proper, and verses 37-39 the conclusion. These facts are well set forth in the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association Manual, 1906-1907, as follows:
The Introduction. (Verses 1-7.) A. The Speaker and the Command (1). B. Message to the Nations (2, 3). C. Messengers to be Sent Out (4, 6). D. Guarantee of Truth (5-7).
The Preface Proper (Verses 8-36). A. Authority of the Messengers (8-10). B. Necessity for the Message (11-16). C. Restoration of the Gospel (17-23). D. Authority of the Book (24-30). E. Necessity of Obeying the Commandments (31-33). F. Destiny of Earth and Man (34-36).
The Conclusion (Verses 37-39). A. Guarantee of Truth (37-38). B. Seal of the Book (39).
4. Students are urged to study carefully the entire section and to compare it step by step with the outline above given. It constitutes an excellent preview of the entire book of Doctrine and Covenants, and is set forth in language pleasant to read and easy to comprehend.
5. Meaning of the Name. The term "doctrine" as used in the caption of the Doctrine and Covenants signifies a set of truths given by the Lord for the guidance of his people. Not all of the world's doctrines however are of Divine origin. To illustrate: The philosopher may reason out a set of opinions which he advocates in connection with his subject. These may change from time to time with increased advancement. Many of the doctrines of the early scientists are also vastly different from those of today. Doctrines of Divine origin, on the other hand, are never negated, since they are based on actual verities. The doctrine of the divinity of Christ, for example, or of the necessity of baptism, will never change.
6. In its general application the term "covenant" indicates a mutual agreement between two or more parties. As used in the title of the Doctrine and Covenants it implies God's promise of blessing to those who abide by his law. Between individuals, covenants are not always kept. According to civil law, when one of the contracting parties fails to keep his agreement, the other is released. In the case of covenants made between God and man, Deity is never the violator. Moreover, God is not bound when man breaks his promise. Conversely, when man keeps his promise, the Lord cannot be released. Here are his words: "I the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10.)
7. The term "Doctrine and Covenants" therefore signifies a series of truths given to man of the Lord, together with an irrevocable promise of reward to all who obey. In the following unmistakable words God has challenged his children to the test: "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." (Malachi 3:10.) It is truly heartening for man to be assured that when he does his part, God will not fail him; that promised rewards are as sure to be forthcoming as daylight follows the appearance of the sun. Just so sure are the covenants of God with man.
8. Language of the Book. It is also encouraging to know that God's promises are couched in the language of common folk and not in the abstract language of the learned few. Deity explains that inasmuch as the Gospel might be carried to the world by the humble of the earth, he has caused that his commandments should be written after the manner of their language and understanding. Following is his statement: "But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; that faith also might increase in the earth; that mine everlasting covenant might be established; that the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." (Doc. And Cov. 1: 20-24.)
9. Students of the Doctrine and Covenants may therefore proceed with full assurance that the meaning and purpose of God are clear and easily understood. Deity has not given his message in terms of ambiguity or equivocation, but rather in language which the masses can readily understand. Thanks be to God that he loves the common folk.
10. Responsibility of Writing in the Name of God. It should not be understood however that documents such as these can be produced without the assistance of Divine command. This is well illustrated by the following historical incident. At a conference held at Hiram, Ohio, some of those who were present criticized the language of the revelations and thought in their hearts that they themselves might improve it. Divining their intent, the Lord through Joseph Smith spoke to them as follows: "Now, seek ye out of the Book of Commandments, even the least that is among them, and appoint him that is the most wise among you; or, if there be any among you that shall make one like unto it, then ye are justified in saying that ye do not know that they are true; but if ye cannot make one like unto it, ye are under condemnation if ye do not bear record that they are true." (Doc. And Cov. 67: 6-8.) William E. McLellan, reputed to be a wise man, accepted the challenge and attempted to bring forth a literary production superior to the revelations. In this he is said to have utterly failed, as a result of which, faith was greatly increased among those present. Joseph adds that it is an awful responsibility to write in the name of the Lord. (See History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 224-226.)
. Revelations Given as the Result of Asking. It is interesting to observe that many of the revelations given in the Doctrine and Covenants came as the direct result of asking. Indeed it is doubtful that any one of the revelations was wholly volunteered by the Lord. In Joseph's own account, many of the revelations are preceded by such statements as "I inquired and received the following," etc. His visitation by the Father and the Son was also the result of prayer.
13. It is only natural that God should reserve his blessings for those who seek them. The same condition exists in all the affairs of human achievement. The individual who succeeds in college, on the farm, or in the shop is he who aggressively desires to do so. The idler and the indifferent are characteristically non-progressive wherever found. God's oft-repeated promise, "Ask and ye shall receive," is as fully true of material things as it is of things of the Spirit. Asking of course commonly consists of more than mere words.
14. Once the necessity of asking is fully learned, progress is well begun. Wisdom in asking is also essential to success. Prayer?in its most productive form coupled with effort?is the key to spiritual achievement. Surely success should be worthy the asking.
15. Answers to Questions. Thus the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are essentially answers to petitions for spiritual enlightenment; some of them are answers to direct questions. The revelations can be most easily understood when the questions that provoked them are known, also the historical conditions immediately antecedent to their reception. It is from this point of view that most of the following lessons will be approached.
16. The efficiency of this method is well illustrated in connection with the revelation contained in Section 2, which consists of Biblical quotations made by the angel Moroni to Joseph Smith on the night of September 21, 1823. The revelation follows: "Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole
612
earth would be utterly wasted at his coming."
17. If taken alone this revelation is more or less meaningless. But when it is studied in connection with related matters?as will be done in the next succeeding lesson?its message and purport are simple and easy to understand.
Questions for Discussion and Review
In what respects do you regard the revelation given in Section 1 most remarkable?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Give the meaning of the terms "doctrine" and "covenants."
Why is God bound if his children obey?
Why did God cause his word to be written in simple language?
Why is it a great responsibility to write in the name of the Lord?
Why does the Lord give to those who ask?
In what sense is the Doctrine and Covenants an answer to prayer?
Why can we understand the revelations best when we know the conditions that provoked them?
Teachers' Topic