VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1885.No. 20


A PRAYER FOR ZION.
Here on this humble mount, my God, to Thee
In humble, fervent prayer we bow the knee
To plead for Zion, bending ’neath the rod
In bondage on Thine own and freedom's sod.

The storm-clouds now doth spread this fair land o’er,
And lightning flash around from shore to shore;
In this dark hour we come, our God and friend,
To Thee, Thou canst with tempests, blessings blend.

We know the gold must be well purified;
We know the tares together Thou wilt bind.
O, give us now Thy Spirit’s strengthening power,
That we may truly stand the trial hour.

Forgive the follies of each passing day,
And help us now to put all sin away,
That nearer we may come, our God, to Thee,
Praying the time is near when Zion shall be free,

Her sons go forth from out the prison wall,
Proclaiming peace and liberty to all,
Bearing glad tidings of the Joys to come,
When all Thy chosen ones are gathered home.

Now for our leaders do we pray to Thee,
Even Thine own anointed, chosen Three
O, may their lives be precious in Thy sight,
For faithful do they stand for Thee and right.

They are tried and proven, even seven times;
They have testified of Thee in many climes:
Now in this hour, O Father, guard them well,
And from ten thousand hearts glad praise shall swell.

For Thine Apostles, messengers of life
To nations withering in sin and strife,
Yearning to save would they but heed the voice
Of truth and in Thy love rejoice.

Their words more precious far than glittering gold,
The hearts they touch not, must indeed be cold,
Where’er, their lot be cast on sea or land,
May they e’er have Thy power and guiding hand.

We pray for all now scorned for Thee and Thine
Appointed laws, most sacred and divine;
Be Thou their help in every time of need,
And with the bread of life Thy children feed.

Oh, may our prayer, O God, to Thee ascend,
And with the voices of the angels blend;
And may “Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done,”
When Christ and all Thy saints shall be as one.
									HOPE.
Tempe, Feb. 24, 1885.


TO THE YOUNG GIRLS.

	I love particularly to address myself to the
young girls, the sweet, fair daughters of Zion.
I wish to ask you, my young sisters, whether
you realize fully the blessings that surround
you and the importance of your mission here
upon the earth.
	Many of you have arrived at the age that
most girls are when they begin to think of
marrying, and many of you, without doubt,
have thought much on this subject, and serious-
ly, too; it is your duty to think about it.
	Marriage is one of the most important steps
a woman has to take in life, and she should
not seek to enter into this covenant without
first seeking the aid of her Heavenly Father
to guide her in her choice of a husband. More
than those of any other people in the world
should the women of Zion seek for the guid-
ance of their Father in this all-important step.
	You are the daughters of those who have
covenanted with the Lord to help to build up
His Church in righteousness, and you are heirs
by right to every privilege the Gospel of Christ
gives to man; and one of the sweetest and most
glorious blessings given us is the privilege we
have of being led by His Holy Spirit in all
that we do.
	We are told by the ancient prophet that at
the time of the coming of the Savior, it would
be with the people as it was in the days of
Noah, they would be marrying and giving
themselves in marriage. Now, the people for
generations have been doing this thing, which
is a sin before the Lord, or the prophet would
not have included it among the sins he names
that men would be committing in the latter
days.
	Then we want to be careful that we do not
give ourselves in marriage, for our Heavenly
Father, you see, forbids us to do this thing.
He is the one who should give His children in
marriage, and He will do this if we seek Him
for this favor.
	We are here to do our Father's work, to
raise up a people for Him especially; then how
necessary that He should dictate us in these
matters, and how necessary it is that we come
before Him and in humility ask His guidance
in this all-important step, the choice of a com-
panion, as well as in every other act of our
lives.
	We are our Father's, and our work is His.
The spirits that are entrusted to our care as
children, are His; they are only given to our
charge for a season; we are entrusted with the
noble mission of giving them bodies that they
may enter the school of experience on this
earth, and as they are wholly our Father's, how
proper and how right it seems that He should
direct through what lineage they should be
born.
	These are trying times for those who are de-
sirous to assist in building up the Church of
God by practicing the heavenly order of mar-
riage, and only those who have the Spirit of
the Lord to guide them will be able to stand
the test. In these times we should draw nigh
unto God with humbleness of heart if we would
have His guidance and protection; when we
know we have His approbation, then in equal
strength can we meet the attacks of the enemy
of righteousness.
	The Lord has called upon all who desire sal-
vation to come out from the midst of Babylon
and withdraw themselves from the ungodly and
the contaminations of the wicked. He com-
manded them to gather to these Rocky Moun-
tains that they might escape the plagues that
would fall upon the wicked and corrupt na-
tions. Another object also He had in view in
bringing His people to this asylum-- it was
that they, untrammeled by the traditions and
evils that envelop the world in a cloud of dark-
ness, might learn of His laws and be taught
His ways. Here they are taught how to purify
their hearts, their minds, and their bodies; the
latter He requires them to make pure that
they may be able to produce tabernacles that
will be fit receptacles for those noble spirits
which are to form a branch that will in
strength and purity be able to cope with Satan
and bear off God's Kingdom in righteousness.
	As I said, my young sisters, you are the
daughters of those who have obeyed this com-
mand to gather to these mountains; those who
have not only covenanted with the Lord to do
His will, but have fulfilled these covenants.
The Lord has now set to work to raise up that
righteous branch spoken of in the Book of
Mormon, therefore He has commanded His
people, and you are destined to become the
mothers of this great race of which I have just
spoken; therefore it is of the utmost importance
that you be guided by the Spirit of God in the
choice of one who shall be the father of the
bodies in which these spirits are tabernacled.
	Satan, anticipating the design of the Al-
mighty in this great work, has sought to frus-
trate these designs--he stalks abroad in the
nations, planting the seeds of evil in every
spot in the soil of human nature that will re-
ceive it; he says to man, "prostitute the woman,
destroy your manhood, seek for gold and riches
out of the earth and invest it in armies and
navies, and raise a carnival of blood and death,
invent infernal machines to hasten the depop-
ulation of the world." And man has listened
to his teachings. To the woman he said, "de-
stroy your offspring, make barren the fruitful-
ness of your womb, that thus coming forth
from the spirit world may cease; lay your vir-
tue at the feet of man and assist him in help-
ing me in this great scheme of mine," which
is to prevent the birth of those mighty spirits
which are to come forth in this dispensation to
enlist in the great struggle between truth and
error.
	Such great power has Satan over the hearts
of the people, that all and more than I have
mentioned of evil has been done. Woman
has destroyed and is destroying her offspring,
even before it is permitted to take its first
breath in this world; she has cast aside her
virtue and prostrated herself before the man;
and he, apparently, has lost sight of the exalt-
ed pillar upon which woman should sit, and he
smiles upon her debasement and descends to
bask in the pleasure of sin with the wanton
and the harlot. The power of Satan has such
possession of his soul that he cares nothing for
posterity, he avoids the responsibility that a
family would bring upon him and is deter-
mined to not marry while woman will yield
to him a satisfaction of the desires with which
Satan fills his heart; he cares nothing for her
honor and integrity, he would much rather
make her a prostitute than make her a wife;
or if he marries her he would rather prevail
upon the wife to prevent the birth of children
than be at the expense of supporting them.
	Has the Lord forgotten His children? Has
He no remedy for this prevailing evil? Will
His pure eyes look upon the degradation of
His daughters by those who boast that they
bear His image, yet have forsaken Him and
are ashamed of His laws and turned from them
and taken sides with him who is the prince of
evil, and not extend to them the hand that is
continually stretched  toward His own? I
think not. Among the sons of men are yet a
few, and they are indeed a very few compared
with the multitude of a nation, from whom a
love of righteousness has not departed, and
who still respect the virtue of woman and
honor the marriage rite by fulfilling the design
of the Almighty in bringing man and woman
upon this earth.
	With these few but tried and faithful ser-
vants He is doing a mighty work in the na-
tions, and through the principles given for
their guidance woman may arise and shake 
herself from the dust and cast off the
chains by which she is bound and stand in
honored equality with man, and by no other
means under heaven can she do it.
	The Lord has given unto these servants of
His a commandment to marry, honor, and pro-


tect those of His daughters who are desirous
to be freed from the bondage of sin, and by
them to raise up a people unto Him who will
fear and serve Him; and these noble women of
Zion who subscribe to these laws are destined
to become the mothers of this mighty and no
ble race; they will be the mothers of rulers,
governors, judges and law-givers, for out of
Zion will go the law-givers and-rulers to-gov
ern the nations.
	The emissaries of Satan have for years been
trying to decoy the women of Zion from this
work; they cry out “shame” to them because
they endure the "degradation” of polygamy,
and try to make them believe there is danger
in it; when persuasion fails they try to force
them from it, they take from them their liber-
ty, they drag them into court and there they
insult them with impunity; they throw their
husband's and sons, those men who are stand-
ing forth in mighty strength in the defense of
the rights of women by marrying them into
jail, and they are so zealous in this heinous la-
bor that they are tearing down the government
to deprive them of the right to do this thing
But will they do it? No; not while woman
values her chastity and desires to lead a pure
life they will never do away with the principle
of plurality of wives. While we remain pure
in our worship the Lord will pr[-]tect us in this
practice and no more will He permit the'cha
tity of women to be trodden down. 
	The time will come when not only will the
name of Joseph Smith be honored and revered
by the women of the nations for establishing
and putting into practice this principle for
their salvation, but also the names of those no-
ble women who were the early advocates of it
and laid aside their traditions and love of the
world to adopt and put it into practice for the
sake of their race and for the rearing of a pep-
ple for God, be had in honored remembrance,
and they will be known throughout all timp as
benefactors of their kind. 
	The time has come when the women of Zion
should live near to their God and depend en-
tirely upon Him for their strength and guid-
ance. Satan is determined that they shall hot
live and act in favor of this work of the Al-
mlghly if he can prevent it, and lie will try
every plan to hinder, them from assisting in
rearing this people of God. It is the glorious
privilege of every woman in Israel to have the
guidance of her Heavenly Father and His
Spirit to strengthen her at all times; with this
sweet comforter she is able to pass through
every earthly trial,and though she may be the
first wife of a man, or a second, or even the
tenth wife,if she knows that God not only sanc-
tions her marriage with that man,but has actu-
ally appointed or chosen him to be her hus-
band, a prison bed cannot seem hard, or the
insolence of courts make her falter, but she
will be able to bear these persecutions bravely,
because she knows that God is her friend and
that she is doing rights                           Mc.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	“I pray God in the name of Jesus that you
all may be kept in the faith unto the end, let
your sufferings be what they may; it is better in
the eyes of the Lord that you should die than
that you should give up the land of Zion, the
inheritance which you have purchased with
your monies; for every man that giveth not up
his inheritance, though he should die, yet when
the Lord shall come he shall stand upon it, and
with Job in his flesh he shall see God.  There-
fore this is my counsel, that you retain your
lands, even unto the uttermost, and seek, re-
dress of your enemies, etc.  And pray to God

[Column 2]
day and night to return you in peace and
safety to the lands of your inheritances.  And
when the judge fails you, appeal unto the
executive; and when the executive fails you,
appeal unto the President; and when the Presi-
dents fails you, and all laws fail you, and all
things else fail you but God above, and you
continue to weary Him with your importun- 
ings, as the poor woman did the unjust judge, 
He will not fail to execute judgment upon
your enemies and to avenge His own elect that
cry unto Him day and night.
	“Behold, He will not fail you!  He will
come with ten thousand of His saints and all
of His adversaries shall be destroyed with the
breath of His lips!  All those who keep their
inheritances, notwithstanding they should be
beaten and driven, shall be likened unto the
wise virgins who took oil in their lamps. But
all those who are unbelieving and fearful will
be likened unto the foolish virgins who took
no oil in their lamps: and when they shall re-
turn and say unto the saints give us of your
lands, behold, there will be no room found for
them.
	“Now hear the prayer of your unworthy
brother in the new and everlasting covenant:  O
my God!  Thou who hast called and chosen a
few, through Thy weak instruments, by com-
mandment, and sent them to Missouri, a place
which Thou didst call Zion, and commanded
Thy servants to consecrate it unto Thyself for
a place of refuge and safety for the gathering
of Thy saints, to be built up a holy city unto
Thyself; and as Thou hast said that no other
place should be appointed like unto this; there-
fore, I ask Thee, in the name of Jesus Christ,
to return Thy people unto their houses, and
their inheritance, to enjoy the fruits of their
labors; that all the waste places may be built
up; that all the enemies of Thy people, who
will not repent and turn unto Thee, be de-
stroyed from off the face of the land; and let
a house be built and established unto Thy
name; and let all the losses that Thy people
have sustained be rewarded unto them, even
more than fourfold, that the herders of Zion
be enlarged forever, and let her be established
no more to be thrown down; and let all Thy
saints when they are scattered like sheep and
are persecuted, flee unto Zion and be estab-
lished in the midst of her, and let her be or-
ganized according to the laws, and let this
prayer ever be recorded before Thy face.  Give
Thy Holy Spirit unto my brethren unto whom
I write; send Thy angels to guard them, and
when they turn their faces toward Zion and
bow before Thee and pray, may their sins never
come up before Thy face, neither have place in
the book of Thy remembrance, and may they
depart from all their iniquities.  Provide food
for them as Thou dost for the raven; provide
clothing for their nakedness, and houses that
they may dwell therein give unto them friends
in abundance, and let their names be recorded
in the Lamb’s Book of Life eternally before
Thy face. Amen.
	“Finally, brethren, the grace of our Lord
Jesus Christ be with you all until His coming
and Kingdom. Amen.
	“JOSEPH SMITH, Jun.” 
	The following is an extract from a letter
written from Clay Co., Missouri, Dec. 15, 1833,
by Elder Phelps to the Prophet:
	“The situation of the saints as scattered is
dubious and affords a gloomy prospect.  No
regular order can be enforced nor any usual
discipline kept.  Among the wicked world, yea, 
the most wicked part of it, some commit one
sin and some another, (I speak of the rebel-
lious;for there are saints that are as immovable
as the everlasting hills)  and what can be done?
We are in Clay, Ray, Lafayette, Jackson,Van
Buren Counties, and cannot hear from each
other oftener than we do from you.  I know it
was right that we should be driven out of the

[Column 3]
land of Zion that the rebellious might be sent
away.  But, brethren, if the Lord will, I should
like to know what the honest in heart shall do?
Our clothes are worn out, we want the neces-
saries of life, and shall we lease, buy, or other-
wise obtain land where we are to till that we
may raise enough to eat?  Such is the common
language of the honest, for they want to do
the will of God.
	“I am sensible that we shall not live again
in Zion till God or the President rules out the
mob.		
	“The Governor is willing to restore u[-] but
as the Constitution gives him no power to
guard us when back, we are not willing to go.
The mob swear if we come we shall die!  If
from what has been done in Zion, we, or the
most of us have got to be persecuted from city
to city, from synagogue to synagogue we want
to know it!  for there are among us some that
would rather earn eternal life on such condi-
tions than lose it; but we hope for better things
and shall wait patiently for the word of the
Lord. Our people fare very well, and when
they are discreet little or no persecution is
felt."
	On the 16th of Dec. 1833, the Prophet
Joseph Smith received the following revelation
concerning Zion: “Verily, I say unto you con-
cerning your brethren who have beep afflicted
and persecuted,and cast out of the land of their
inheritance, I, the Lord, have suffered the afflic-
tion to come upon them wherewith they have
been afflicted, in consequence of their trans-
gressions; yet I will own them and they shall
be mine in that day when I shall come to make
up my jewels.  Therefore, they must need be
chastened and tried, even as Abraham, who
was commanded to offer up his only son; for all
those who will not endure chastening, but deny
me, cannot be sanctified.
	“Behold, I say unto you, there were jarrings
and contentions, and envyings, and strife, and
lustful and covetons desires among them; there-
fore by these things they polluted thieir inheri-
tances.  They were slow to hearken unto the
voice of the Lord their God; therefore the Lord
their God is slow to hearken unto their prayers
to answer them in the day of their trouble.  In
the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my
counsel, but in the day of their trouble, of ne-
cessity, they feel after me.	
	“Verily, I say unto you, notwithstariding
their sins my bowels are filled with compassion
toward them.  I will not utterly cast them off,
and in the day of wrath I will remember mer-
cy.  I have sworn and the decree hath gone
forth by a former commandment which I have
given unto you, that I would let fall the sword
of my indignation in behalf my of people;  and
even as I have said it shall come to pass.  My
indignation is soon to be poured out without
measure upon all nations, and this will I do
when the cup of their iniquity is full.  And in
that day all who are found upon the watch-
tower, or in other words, all my Israel, shall be
saved.  And they that have been scattered
shall be gathered, and all they who have given
their lives for my sake shall be crowned.
	“Therefore let your hearts be comforted con-
cerning Zion, for all flesh is in my hands; be
still, and know that I am God.  Zion shall
riot be moved out of her place, notwithstand-
ing her children are scattered, they shall re-
turn And come to their inheritance, they and
their children, with songs of everlasting joy,
to build up the waste places of Zion; and all
these things that the Prophets might be ful-
filled.


Mary Somerville lived to be ninety-two, and
Caroline Herschel to be ninety eight. Astro-
nomical studies do not seem to impair the 
health of women. May Maria Mitchel live
 o be as old as her illustrious predecessors!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SHELLS OF THE OCEAN. 

Shells of the ocean! beautiful shells!
Homes of the living that easily dwell
In your bright cavities glistening and warm,
Shining like gold, while rainbows adorn
Inside and outside of each little house;
Storms do not enter though often aroused.

Shells of the ocean! how varied in hue
That the bright waves bring forth to our view;
Many in form: each species distinct,
Still with each other there's always a link.
Tiniest, brightest, and largest together,
Lineth the beach like some fairy favor.
						EMILY B. SPENCER.


"DON'T YOU GLORY IN THE POST-
MAN'S KNOCK?"

The postman! Oh, the postman!
Name that long has blest the world,
Carrying hopes, and fears, and sorrows,
	Carrying scrolls to be unfurled;

Carrying secrets dear and sacred,
	Carrying whisper'd love and joy,
And alas, some 'whelming sorrow
Crushing in its base alloy.

"Men of letters" surely are ye
Bearing white-winged doves to all,
You are truly sent to bless us - 
Welcome, welcome is your "call."

Yes, I bless you, "men of letters,"
Knowing you are sent to bless,
I know none that are your betters
In relieving deep distress.

In bestowing daily pleasure,
	In dispensing joy below
In this nether world of ours,
	On your way rejoicing go.

Money is a meagre tribute
For the labors you dispense,
Heart-felt thanks we offer to you,
	Gratitude your recompense.

Yes, we bless you, "men of letters,"
For the healthy joy you bring;
We know none who are your betters
For the sunshine which you fling.

O'er the mother who in absence
Yearns to hear "about" her son-
For the token love dispenses
Through you to the treasured one.

Public benefactors are ye,
	True as needle to the pole.
Blessings on ye, "men of letters,"
Noble is your daily role.
						HANNAH T. KING.
March 7th, 1885.


[Column 1]
	HOME. 

	Home is the nursery of innocence and con-
tentment. All hearts beat in unison, and
contentment prevails. Father and mother are
happily mated, enjoying each other's pleasures
and sharing each other's sorrows. Both enjoy
the society of their children; they are pleased
and happy to see any improvement in their 
education, from baby Allie up to sturdy John. 
When father is away all miss him and are
anxiously awaiting his return. Hear the ex-
clamations of joy when the announcement is 
made, "Papa has come home!" or more com-
monly, "Here is papa!" All are anxious to 
greet him first and tell him every little inci-
dent that has happened during his absence. 
All these manifestations show in what degree
of love and respect he is held in his own home. 
So it is when mamma is away and returned, and
also with each of the children. Happy is the
home when all of its members are thus situat-
ted. 
	How we should strive to make home the
most pleasant place in the world; where per-

[Column 2]
fect confidence reigns; where all may come and
tell their joys and make known their sorrows, 
being sure to receive the sympathy and advice
so much needed in our journey through life.
	Fathers, talk to your wives and children; let 
them know you are their friend. Mothers, 
make your children your confidents, so they 
will, in return, make you theirs. Children, 
confide in your parents; take heed to their ad-
vice, for truer friends you will never find; no 
one will ever be more interested in your wel-
fare than they are. Honor, respect and love
them; thank God your Heavenly Father that
you were permitted to have such noble parent-
age as you have. 
	Men and women are worthy to be called of 
God in this day, to help to establish His king-
dom upon the earth for the last time; men and
women of much integrity to boldly stand forth, 
amid all the oppression and persecution, and
serve God in helping to establish the principles
of life and salvation where wickedness and sin
have so long held sway. Respect yourselves, 
as sons and daughters of God, born in the holy 
Priesthood, with power given to you to go forth
and proclaim the glad tidings of great joy to 
all the nations of the earth. Be willing instru-
ments in the hands of God in bringing the pure
in heart to a knowledge of the Gospel. You
should all rejoice in this knowledge. The more
persecution and opposition you receive the 
stronger your faith should be in the divinity
of the Gospel. 
	Home is the starting point for every man and 
woman on the earth. There we are born, learn
to walk, talk, then to take cognizance of things
near around, and then, as our abilities grow 
stronger, we learn to do small things, then sent
to school to learn the fundamental rules for 
forming an education as we journey through 
life, etc., etc. 
	Children are just like small plants springing
from the ground; the more they are cultivated
and kept in the proper shape the straighter 
and more useful they will become. They are 
pliable, while young, just like the plant, hence
the necessity of early training and strict obe-
dience to parents. "As the twig is bent, so will 
the tree grow."
	Home should be made a place so desirable
that the children will be contented and their
minds employed in something useful, or at ease. 
Music in a home has a great attraction for
children, as well as older people. It is an ele-
vating element of education; it draws out the
mind, softens the heart and gives loftier de-
sires to all. It seems to place us as near to 
heaven as anything earthly can. It is inspir-
ing in its nature, when it is of an elevated kind. 
It has a great tendency to cheer and soothe our 
souls; it makes us contented with our lot in life; 
it is comforting at all times and heavenly in 
its nature, hence it should be cultivated in the
homes of the Saints. When we go to church
on the Sabbath day and hear the solemn hymn, 
the heavenly tones of the organ, the many and 
sweet voices of the singers, how they thrill our
hearts—bring such contentment to our souls, as 
nothing else can, and prepare our hearts and 
minds for the inspired words of God, as they
fall from the lips of those who are appointed 
to feed the soul on this holy day. 
	Our home, or the home where we are raised
is very apt to be a model of the homes of our
children, and for this reason we should wish
our homes to be pleasant and agreeable. Pa-
rents, in the ideas of their children, are per-
fect. This is the court of justice to which they 
bring their difficulties to be settled. It is not 
a trifling thing to decide in justice to all. Wis-
dom and consideration should be used in such 
decisions, and thus early plant the principles
of right and justice in their minds. Solomon
said, "Train a child in the way it should go, 
and it will not depart from it."

[Column 3]
This is a model of our Mormon homes in 
Utah. This is the doctrine I have been 
taught from my earliest recollection. I was 
born and raised in Utah of Mormon parentage. 
I know but little of the world outside of our 
Church. I know the Saints are sincere in their 
religion, and will serve God rather than man, 
come weal or come woe. Our trust is in Him
whom we serve. 
	D. E. DUDLEY. 
Clifton, Idaho, Feb. 14th, 1885.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY. 

	On Wednesday, January 14th, a very pleas-
ant time was spent at the Aurora meeting
house. At 10 a.m. a number of the brethren
and sisters gathered, the sisters to spread the
tables and the brethren to assist in arranging
the seats; etc. 
	At 1 p.m. the brethren and sisters, to the
number of about one hundred and fifty, were
seated at the tables, which were loaded with
the good things of the earth. 
	Everything was just ready when our be-
loved President of the Relief Society, Sister
Lucinda Curtis, made her appearance, suppos-
ing she was coming to a Relief Society meet-
ing. When she entered the door she was so 
overcome by the sight that without the aid of 
her counselors, who were waiting at the door 
for her, she would have been unable to take
the seat prepared for her at the head of one of 
the tables, where her children and grandchild-
ren were seated. 
	Sister Lucinda was presented with a number
of presents from the Society during the day, 
it being her fifty-fourth birthday.
	After dinner the children engaged in the
dance for a short time, and in the evening
there was a dance for the adults. During the
evening there were songs and recitations, be-
sides appropriate remarks. 
	At the close of the party Sister Curtis ex-
pressed her thanks to the sisters of the Society 
for the honor conferred upon her, as she did
not consider herself worthy of so much atten-
tion, etc. 
	Ever wishing success to the EXPONENT, we
remain, 
	Your sisters in the Gospel, 
	HARRIET CURTIS, 
	LAURA HOLDAWAY.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Blanche Willis Howard is said to have late-
ly dramatized her novel "Guenn." She is now
writing another. 

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe is highly complimen-
tented by the New Orleans Picayune. It says: 
"She is the gracious and gentle woman, the
mother of a family, the woman whose life has
been dedicated to noble works, to the protec-
tion of home, the advancement and improve-
ment of her sex."
	
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe is anxious to make
as complete a collection as possible of books
and pamphlets written by women for the New 
Orleans Exposition. She invites authors and
publishers throughout the country to send her
without delay, any contributions of women's 
literary work which they can make. 
	
	Dr. Sara Craig, of the class of '84, Michi-
gan University, now house physician in the 
Woman's Hospital at Detroit, is making an 
enviable reputation in that institution. Health
Officer Wight and other prominent physicians
speak in the highest terms of her sanitary im-
provements, urging other institutions of like
nature to adopt her system.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15,  1885


[Column 1]
	THE NEW ADMINISTRATION.

	The event that ushered in the Democratic
President is now passed; the nation awaited it
with anxious expectancy, many fearing that
after all there would be disturbance or disap-
pointment, but neither transpired, and Presi-
dent Cleveland was duly inagurated on the 4th
of March, and is now installed at the White
House with all due ceremony and state. What
sort of  administration it will be is yet to be
proven. The Democratic party are fully confident
that the government of this great nation will
be safe in his hands, that he is wise, judicious
and clever, and the wheels of state will soon
roll evenly along, and the country grow more
prosperous under the new administration.
	It may be so, and one cannot help hoping
against hope, that the Democrats are right in
their calculations, but the unsettled condition
of all nations at the present time certainly tends
to weaken confidence in the validity of any one
government, however propitious the outward
seeming may appear. There was no rejoicing
here on the day of the election, notwithstaning
the rumors circulating around to the effect that
there was quite a hurrah among the "Mormons,"
everybody seemed quite equal to the momentous
occasion and went on with their work as though
it was an every day affair.
	The republican party, much as they despise
the Democratic principles, are quite exultant
because President Cleveland mentioned in his
message to the people of these United States
that polygamy should be repressed. Let them
rejoice, the Saints can well afford it; they are
not looking for favors from either party, and
therefore cannot be greatly disappointed. It was
without any help or aid from the United States
government that the "Mormons" planted the
flag of their country in the vales of the Rocky
Mountains; they drove their own teams, made
their own roads and bridges, and pioneered their
own way through with poverty and privation
staring them in the face.
	They have made these mountain fastnesses
habitable, and the stranger, whether Jew or
Gentile, has been entertained within their gates.
Presuming upon the freedom extended to all, of
whatever creed or nationality, wicked and de-
signing men have sought to establish themselves
in the midst of an innocent and unoffending
people, and have, by political chicanery and in-
trigue, made a stepping stone of honest citizens
to lift themselves to place and power. The du-
plicity and cunning of these office seekers who
have gained a temporary advantage over the
upright and diligent laborer is too thin to cover
their wicked designs, and it cannot much longer
be hidden; but the people of Utah can afford to
wait, positive of the result that will follow. And
notwithstanding all the dark clouds that now
obscure the horizon and cast their gloomy

[Column 2]
shadows over these peaceful and happy vales,
making the situation appear melancholy and
forbidding at the present time, it will only be of
short duration, for so sure as there is a God in
heaven, He will make manifest His power in
the deliverance of His people from the snares
that are now laid to eatrap them, and Israel will
be freed from bondage and the clouds will roll
by and be lost in thin air, and the people will
rejoice and the waste places will continue to
grow fertile and Zion will extend her borders,
and her strength will increase, and no power on
earth can hinder its development.
	The nations of the earth are already strug-
gling with difficulties that will eventually bring
still more serious trouble, and the United States
government will, undoubtedly, yet be glad to call
upon the Rocky Mountain boys to come to its
assistance, and will be proud of those brave and
honest young men whom the masses of the
people now professedly despise.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE managers of the Deseret Hospital wish
to express their gratitude to S. P. Teasdel Esq.,
the genial and gentlemanly proprietor of the
Eagle House in this city, for a pair of handsome
lace curtains and thirty-three yards of carpet,
donated to that institution. Possibly there are
others who may follow this good example, re-
membering that the liberal man deviseth liberal
things and by his liberality he shall live, and
also "he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord."
	WE attended the Relief Society Conference in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Thursday, March 12th,
Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding, aided by her
Counselor, H. C. Brown. On the stand were
Prest. Eliza R. S. Smith, Coun. Middleton, of
Weber Stake, and several Bishops and Presi-
dents of the branches of Relief Society in that
county. There was a good attendance, and the
reports from the several wards were good, show-
ing each society to be in a flourishing condition.
The address of Sister Eliza in the morning was
something to be remembered, both for the excel-
lent instruction it contained and the powerful
manner in which it was delivered. Minutes of
the Conference will appear in our next.
	ON Saturday, March 7th, a number of ladies,
intimate friends of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, met
at her residence in the 13th Ward, it being the
anniversary of the lady's birthday. The time
was spent in social converse, supper being an-
nounced at six p.m., when the guests repaired
to the residence of Apostle H. J. Grant, where a
sumptuous repast had been prepared for the oc-
casion. The table was handsomely set out, and
the viands were delicious. Mrs. Lucy Grant,
the amiable hostess, and her sisters, Mrs. Julia
Woolley, with Miss Maggies Ivins assisting,
waited upon the ladies in the most charming
manner, and everyone seemed to thoroughly en-
joy themselves. About ten o'clock the party
broke up. Many good wishes were expressed
for the lady, who is a great favorite with her
friends. May she live to enjoy many more
years of prosperity and happiness.
	ON Tuesday evenings, March 10th, we had the
pleasure of attending, by invitation, the Young
Ladies' Meeting in the 20th Ward, Mrs. Lula
Greene Richards presiding; her Counselors, Mrs.
Annie G. Sharp and Mrs. Elizabeth Stayner
were also present. After singing prayer was of-
fered by Elder Wm. Willis. Then singing again.
Minutes of previous meeting were read and ap-
proved, after which the roll was called by the
secretary, and many of the young ladies re-
sponded with a proverb or passage from Scrip-
ture, which was quite interesting. The pro-
gramme, which had been prepared for the even-

[Column 2]
ing consisted of songs, organ solo, readings and
recitations, all well rendered by the members.
Afterwards the meeting was addressed by Sisters
M. I. Horne, E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and
L. G. Richards. Coun. E. Stayner then asked
the young ladies who had kept the resolution
given at the last meeting to rise up; quite a
large number responded. President Richards
proposed as all had not kept it to have the same
resolution for the next meeting, which was de-
cided upon. The resolution was to be punctual
at the hour of meeting. Programme for next
meeting was read and meeting adjourned, and
after singing the benediction was pronounced by
Miss Celia Sharp.
	AT three o'clock on Monday, March 9th, a
group of ladies met at the residence of Apostle
Wilford Woodruff in honor of his wife, Sister
Phebe C. Woodruff, who, on the 8th of March,
attained to the age of 78 years. Sister Woodruff
had recently resigned her position as President
of the teachers of the Relief Society of the 15th
Ward, and the officers and members of that or-
ganization, wishing to recognize their apprecia-
tion of her valuable services, while she had
officiated in that capacity, tendered to her this
surprise, and presented her with a large and ele-
gant album. The afternoon was spent in the
most happy manner in social conversation and
remarks from several of the ladies including
Sister Woodruff herself, and her venerable sis-
ter, Sister Foss, who is now eighty-four years
old; Sister Woodruff is now seventy-eight and
bears her honors well. She is a new England
woman, from the State of Maine, one of the old
Puritan stock that "wears well", and may live
many more years. We ardently hope she may
live until she is satisfied with life and has filled
her mission here, and is prepared to enter into
the fulness of rest prepared for the faithful
Saints of God.


BORN AGAIN.

	We learn from our Savior's remarks to Nico-
demus, upon the importance of baptism. As
written, John iii; 6-7, Jesus said to him, "That
which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that
which is born of the spirit is spirit." 7th verse:
"Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be
born again."
	Looking at the subject in the true sense of the
word, how readily we can understand the reason
that the human family, in their natural state,
cannot comprehend the designs and purposes of
our Great Law-giver, the Savior of the world.
We can understand what tender care an infant
must have who has been born into this world—
without this care its faculties could not be
properly developed; but with it how soon you
see the fruits of your labor. Even while it is
fed upon milk it is susceptible of joy and sorrow.
At an early date it will laugh; and is always
ready to cry if hurt in the least. But with love
and tender care it will grow like a thrifty plant,
and eventually become like a sturdy oak of the
forest.
	Now, if that which is born of the flesh can
arrive at the perfection of manhood in so short 
a time, what might that which is born of spirit
do, providing it had the same tender care. I
often think this life seems to be a school. Our
Father sent us here:  we knew nothing when we
arrived. Our first lessons were gained from ob-
servation, and lovingly we were taught to lisp
the name of our parents, until we could not bear
to let them leave us, save as our attention was
taken by some other object. This shows how
ready we are to learn our lessons from objects,
and especially those that gratify and please the 
eye.
	We soon learn that we are surrounded by two


nfluences or teachers.  Now, since that which
is born of the flesh is flesh, and that born of the
spirit is spirit, what will be the result?  Well,
since all are born of the flesh, this being accom-
plished, what is the next lesson.  One teacher
tells us this is a fallen world and there are many
dangers to meet.  The wisest course to pursue
is to listen to those who by age and experience
have become acquanted with its dangerous pit-
falls and calamities.  We tremble to learn this.
The other teacher says this is a delightful world,
and the best thing is to enjoy it and throw aside
all fear.  This is quite pleasant news, and per-
haps we summon up the courage to try it.  Well,
now we learn our lessons by experience--it is not
necessary to tell how.  One class of society learn 
that to be truly happy you must be truly good.
This will lift and qualify you to fill places of 
trust, both in this world and the next, for our
term of school will soon close, and our Father
will call us home to give an account of how we
have improved and what advantage we have
gained while a sojourner here.
     We are also told that there has been a teacher
here, even the Son of God, who left rules, which,
if we live by them, will save us from ruin and
disgrace, and prepare us to come again into our
Father's presence.
     The other teacher says these rules are the
most dangerous of all, because He became a 
sacrifice for sin, and He requires all who listen
to Him to make sacrifices also.  Yes, to those
who love the world, and cannot get enough of
this world's goods, it would be a great sacrifice
to love their neighbors as themselves, "and do
good to those who hate, and to pray for those
who dispitefully use and persecute you."  No,
they could not do it, because it is only those
who are born of water and the spirit who can
have faith in these words.
     The question arises:  Now, after being born of
water and the spirit, how can we nourish and
cherish, or in other words, develop this spirit
until we are perfected by its influence?  The
Savior said:  "If ye keep my words as I have
kept my Father's words, ye shall be heirs and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ."
     St. John says, in his first epistle, iii; 20[-]30,
"Beloved:  now we are the sons of God, and it
doth not yet appear what we shall be; but we
know that when He shall appear we shall be 
like Him, for we shall see Him as He is; and
every man that hath this hope in him purifieth
himself, even as He is pure."
     How thankful we should be that the Lord has
again sent a prophet to prepare His way before
Him, even as John the Baptist was sent to pre-
pare His way the first time He made His ap-
pearance upon this earth.  But in His tender
mercy He sent again to show us that no one did
see or know what we were in the sight of God
our Father.  Truly we had the written word of
God, but who understood it, or kept His laws
perfectly, as they must be kept, to be ready to
meet the Savior when He comes again to earth?
Yes, there must and will be such a people, for
Jesus said, "My sheep know my voice and will
follow me."  The Lord said unto Moses, Leviti-
cus xix; 2, "Speak unto all the congregation of 
the children of Israel, and say unto them: ye
shall be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am
holy."  And Peter says in His first epistle, i;
15-16, "But as He which has called you is holy
in all manner of conversation, because it is
written, be ye holy, for I am holy."  And the
savior says, Matthew v; 48, "Be ye perfect,
even as your Father which is in heaven is per-
fect."
     Do you ask why all those sayings?  Remem-
ber St. John's epistle shows:  if ye are not holy
as He is holy and perfect, ye will not be like

[column 2]
Him, for no one can enjoy His glory without
possessing His perfections and holiness.
     This is the object and aim of our people, as
taught us by the prophet, yet we are called to
make sacrifices from time to time.  This proves
what spirit we cultivate, for we cannot serve
two masters; in trying to do this how many
stumble and fall.  The Savior said, Matthew
vi; 24, "No man can serve two masters: for
either he will hate the one and love the other;
or else he will hold to the one and despise the
other.  Ye cannot serve God and mammon."
Those are the words of the Son of God.  Our
Father sent them to be taught to all who would
listen and obey.  A free will offering to all.
None are compelled to come, for the Savior and
our Father, too, knows full well that those who
will not come to learn of them to-day will even-
tually, either in this world or the next, if they
do not commit the unpardonable sin, see their
error and come and be saved by the plan of re-
demption.  Jesus says after the destroyer has
killed the body this is all that he can do.  He
has no power to lead astray any longer.
     Is it not then most beneficial to study and
practice the rules our Father sent us to live by?
They are as essential as the four fundamental
rules of arithmetic, which, if we know, we can
solve all the problems in the book by the four
fundamental rules.  The same are the rules of
life given by the Savior--they will enable us to 
solve the mystery of godliness.
     Besides this He gives His Spirit to such,
which is the true riches; or the love with which
He loved the world.  The same love with which 
a mother loves her infant child--I mean a good
mother; for all are not good.  Some think it too
much of a task to be taxed with such a burden.
Such cannot know the height and depth of true
affection.
     These are our lessons; but the world say that
Mormon religion is only a farce, gotten up by
Joseph Smith to lead the people astray.  I would
ask, when will the world wake up to reason and
sound sense?
     I would here add, that with this spirit (which
our Savior taught Nicademus that he must pos-
sess before he was fit for the kingdom) we can
even live in plural marriage; because we feel a
confidence in our associates that they cultivate
its pure principles, and are saying to the tempt-
er, "Get behind me, Satan, for I am living for
true principles, as taugth by Jesus our Savior."
With this spirit it is not the same thing at all
which it would be without; with this spirit we
are truly happy under all circumstances, know-
ing this term of school is short at best, and we
are determined to do our best while we sojourn
here.  We feel the smile of an alwise Providence
rests upon us, and we shall hear Him say, "Well
done good and faithful servant," etc.  But let
the tempter come in and listen to him for an
hour and you are filled with hatred and disgust,
and sometimes with revenge, and ask, "Is this
the bottomless pit?"  If there is such a place.
If there is I think we make it when we do not
obey the God of heaven.  By doing this we 
learn the good and the evil, as our mother Eve
designed we should.  The evil is always appar-
ent; let us, then learn something of the good
before we are called home to give an account of
how we spent our time upon this earth.  Do
not be like the boy who, upon being asked what
he was doing in school, replied, "I wait for school
to be out.
     Look at those whose education and refine-
ment taught them to ignore the laws of God as
given in the Garden of Eden, because it brought
them on a level with the animals.  To-day the 
French nation will give a reward to those
who raise families.  Did not God our Father
foresee all this, and much more which will

[column 3]
come to pass in the own due time of the Lord?
I do not think our Government could afford to
give permiums to those who raise families here,
should they feel inclined to do so.  I motion
they give them to those parents who take par-
ticular pains to teach their children purity of
heart, uprightness, integrity and truth.  When
this is taugth, both by precept and example,
there is an effect produced which will show itself
either in this world or the next, for we must live
for both.
     Let us then be of that number who, when his
Lord cometh, shall be found watching, is the
prayer of 
Your sister in the Gospel,
MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.
Feb. 22, 1885.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

     The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Feb. 21st, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horn presiding. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion," etc. Prayer by Coun. S. M. Kimball.
Singing, "Come, come ye Saints," etc. Minutes
of previous meeting read and accepted.
Minutes of Y. L. of the 4th and 20th wards, and
P. A. of the 21st, 4th, 5th, 15th, 11th, and 3rd 
wards were read.
     Prest. Horne spoke of the reports, and thought
that seeing so many present was an indication
that there was a desire among the people to do
right. Said the Saints were passing through
peculiar circumstances at present, and it was
good that the Saints could meet and worship
God and enjoy His Holy Spirit; and continued:
“For many years we have received counsel to
avoid trading with our enemies; I regret that we
have not always obeyed this wise counsel, for
we can now see that we have been preparing a
whip for our own backs. We should ask our-
selves, are we living our religion and keeping
God's commandments as we should do? We
want to be firm, for the time will come when
we will have to stand on our own faith.” Made
other good remarks, and spoke affectionately of
Sister Eliza, who then addressed the congrega-
tion.
     Sister E. R. S. S., after expressing her pleasure
in meeting with the sisters once more, gave a
brief account of the way in  which she had pas-
sed the winter, and encouraged the sisters to be
prayerful and faithful in the performance of
every duty and God would overrule everything
for the good of the true Latter-day Saint. His
Saints are dear to Him, and He will care for
them. "I feel proud of those brethren who are
imprisoned for the sake of their religion, for
they have shown themselves to be true and
brave. The principle of plural marriage is as
sacred to-day as ever it was, and I am proud of
those who have courage enough to obey it. If
we are such a people as God loves we will not
shrink or cower if every nation should rise up
against us; for He loves the noble and brave
and the righteous.” She then related a dream
concerning the ship of Zion, and earnestly ex-
horted the sisters to be firm and faithful, and
closed by praying God to bless all who desired
to do right.
     Sister E. S. Taylor made some preliminary
remarks, thought our persecutions were doing
us good and waking us up to a better sense of
our duty. Thought the Lord had a purpose in
permitting these trials to come upon His Saints,
and may we each be able to say, "Thy will be
done,"  is my prayer.
     Coun. S. M. Kimbal and Coun. B. W. Smith,
each mad a few remarks, expressing their ap-
preciation of the meeting and their desire to do
right, and Prest. Horne made a few closing re-


marks, and related a dream she had several
years ago, which foretold the Saints would have
persecution if they lived faithful.
	Sister Ellen C. Glawson gave notice of the of-
ficers meeting of the Primary Association, and
the meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing,
"Now let us rejoice,"  etc.  Benediction by Mrs.
Rachel R. Grant.
	
	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Room, Saturday, Marth 7th, at 2 p.m., Mrs. M
Isabella Horne presiding.  Singing, "The time
is nigh," etc.  Prayer by Mrs. Hannah T. King
Singing, "Sweet is the work, my God, my
King"  Minutes of previous meeting read and
adopted.  Minutes of the Y. L.  from the 10th, 20th,
19th 17th, and of the P. A. from the 6th, 15th, 
12th, 10th, 11th, 16th and 4th wards.
	Prest. Horne, in her opening remarks, said
she had a note from Sister Hines, who was
prayed for in our last meeting; she says she re-
ceived immediate relief, and wishes to thank us
for it.  "It is a great privilege to be instrumen-
tal in healing the sick. Thought our prayers
would avail much if we were as good as we
knew how to be; was thankful that there was
an awakening among the Saints to a sense of
their duty.  "The Lord is pleased with us when
we meet together and speak of his goodness and
try to sustain each other in our trials and afflic
tions. Let us recollect the incidents of Brother
Burton's trial some years ago, in which the
hand of the Lord was so plainly manifest."
Prest Horne then expressed a desire to have the
sisters bear their testimony, and felt they would
have a good time together. 
	Mrs. H. T. King endorsed the remarks of
Prest. Horne, and spoke of prayer meetings,
thought they would be a great benefit to the
Saints; referred to the blessings arising from
prayer.
	Mrs. Watmough bore a strong testimony, and
exhorted the sisters to be faithful.
	Sisters Norman, Fowler and several others
bore faithful testimonies. Prest. Horne made
aa few closing remarks and gave notice of the 
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, which would be held Friday,
March 21st, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. at that place;
also of the Primary Conference, March 22nd, at
10 a.m., and the Y. L. M. I. A. the same after-
noon at 2 p.m.  Singing, Doxology.  Benedic-
tion by Coun. S. M. Kimball.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE TWO FAMILIES
	First, the Patriarchal father returns home
from work, or a long absence, and finds his
family well, happy and glad to meet him; he is
also happy, receiving their kind welcomings
home.  Now we will see them at the dinner
table-mothers father and children all surround-
ing the table with smilling faces;  he willingly
acknowledging the claims of all alike and
providing for each one equally, and loving each
child with the same fatherly love.  What harm
is there in this?
	Now think of a Gentile family, such as I have
positively known.  Think first of a bright home
of a newly married couple.  Two or three years
of happiness, love and enjoyment pass away;
a loving wife, always trusting in her husband's
love and faithfulness to her, always believing
and trusting every word that her husband
speaks, disdaining the very thoughts of any-
thing distrustful of him.  Time wears on.  Now
there comes troubles and trials one after another.
First he is absent in the evenings.  She waits
long for him.  Many lonely hours are spent
waiting for him.  When he returns and is asked,


"Why are you so late?" he answer, "Nothing
at all, dear, but I was detained on business"
	Time [---] passed on.  She still believes his
words to be true.  Night after night it is the
same until she gets weary of waiting in vain;
when suddenly it is whispered round of suspi-
cions that something was not right T[---]
reaches her ear.  She cannot; she will not be-
lieve her husband is false, until sorrow, remorse
and shame enters her home.  Finally the door
ball is rung; a young lady enters bearing a child
in her arms, and asking for mercy and shelter,
claiming this man, her husband, as the child's
father. Then the wife that has been so loving,
so kind and so good falls back in despair and
grief, her heart overflowing until she can con-
tain it no longer.  She calls to her husband to
find out the truth and he must acknowledge
his wrong. There is a broken-hearted wife, a
disgraced maiden and a desolate home.
     Looking at the two pictures, one keeping the
law of God as Abraham, Isaac and Jacob did,
the other transgressing all law, and plunging a
trusting wife and unsuspecting maiden into ut-
terdespair, himself a disgrace to allmanhood,
and percahnce the cause of[--]untimely death
to one [---] of those whose hearts [--]
broken [---]


[Column 1]
LAW—WHAT IS LAW AND WHAT
IS IT FOR?

	Law is a code of statutes drawn up and com-
piled judiciously and harmoniously to discrimi-
nate between good and evil, right and wrong;
to punish an offender if he or she has done
wrong, or committed an evil deed.  It was
never intended to wreak its vengeance on a
peacable citizen, who is pursuing a straight-
forward course, attending to his daily avoca-
tions of life, no disturber of the peace, temper-
ate, honest, upright in his dealings, and one
who is working for the public good, and re-
spected by his friends.  Has such a one no
right to dwell peacabley in his own dwelling by
his own fireside?  No right to walk abroad to
attend to the duties that devolve upon him to
maintain and support his family?  Was law
made to dog his footsteps to watch his home
and thrust him into prison?  Has the judici-
ary a right to enact such a law, and send men,
biased in their minds, to administer it, and that,
too, from a distance?  Are they competent to
judge of matters they have had no associa-
tion with, who seek not the welfare of their 
fellow creature, who judges not his merits, or
cares for his worth in the advancement of pub-
lic good? 
	All this his neighbor knows, and has to see
him shackled, and his usefulness brought to a
standstill, because his enemy, a "great-mighty-
republican-dollar-man, has a little authority
invested in him to transact business away from
home—one short month and then his career
comes to an end and he sinks into insignifi-
cance. 
	If this is republicanism I never want its as-
sociations, neither do I want to come in con-
tact with its unjust laws.  My progenitors
made good and wholesome laws, which said
that Congress should make no law to control
our religious rights.  Now these republican
men come here to Utah and dare to tell her en-
lightened people that if they believe what is in
the Bible they cannot have the right of fran-
chise; if our name is registered, if we are ever
so moral, virtuous, and good citizens, and if we
were born in America, and all our ancestors
before us, if we believe the word of God, they
shall not let us have any rights to their law—
one-sided only to condemn—which they have
made expressly for the poor ignorant, cast-off,
brow-beaten believers in the eternal truths,
written for our edification and salvation, which

[Column 2]
we have had the stamina to investigate, and
came out from the dogmas that are now extant
in the civilized world.
	"Now, if you Mormons will be infidels, as
we are, believe in a God that can't see what
you do, and mystify what the true and living
God has said about His servants, the prophets
and His apostles, and the Savior of the world,
then you can be justified by our Republican
law."
	This is Scripture; for all the law is fulfilled
in one word, even in this:  "Thou shalt love
thy neighbor as thyself."  I do not think these
holy (?) men would like to have the same
treatment as they are dealing out to us, if so
let some one go into their homes with a little
galvanized law in their pockets and pick and
pry into their family secrets and accuse them
of crime and call their children bastards.
	We want a local government.  Utah has
wise men, tried and proven.  We solicit no 
distant usurper to set us to rights, by bringing
us into bandage.  We are free born as well as
themselves, and will contend for our rights and
justice.  We have political and religious rights,
and we have been sustained in them by our
own local officers;we do not want men from
abroad to mind our business; we have been
taught to mind it ourselves, and we are quite
competent.  I should think if this people
kne how to locate a great Territory like this,
which has opened up so large an inland traffic,
bringing in resources to the government from
lands that would have lain dormant, and also
mineral wealth, they certainly are competent
of manipulating their own governmental af-
fairs.  Uncle Sam ought to be thankful to this
people, for no other people under the sun would
have settled here;  neither could we if we had
not been sustained and preserved by the out-
stretched arm of the Almighty, and He will
continue His preserving care until His king-
dom is established for ever, and He reigns tri-
umphantly.
	A great hue and cry is raised about bigamy
and polygamy away out here in Utah—a term
I never heard used until the Gentile courts set
here to try such cases.  I consider when a man
marries a wife she is his rightful and lawful
wife.  They twain become one flesh; if he
marries more than one they all  become his
own flesh and blood, and their offspring are
legitimate.  The marriage ceremony is the
same.  They enter into a solemn contract and
are under obligations to each other.
	The Latter-day Saints marry for time and 
all eternity, and that, too, by divine authority
from God;  He commanded them to do so; to
raise up a righteous seed unto Himself.  He
had spirits in reserve to enter tabernacles,
whose parents had not defiled themselves, who
had kept themselves from all others.  Such
are the men that have entered into this order
of marriage, and such are the women.  A small
percentage of the men of this Church have a 
plurality of wives, and they are those, many of
them, who were married men, who had never
cohabited with any other women but their own
lawful wives, virtuous, upright and honorable
to the very letter, and up to the present time
they would have clung to one wife only, had
they not know it was a divine command.
They acted under a religious conviction, and
had to stem the tide of civilized usage and
custom, which they could never have had the
courage to do without that knowledge that 
comes to God's people by revelation.
	There is a great responsibility resting upon
those who enter this order of marriage; they
must lead holy lives, be prayerful and circum-
spect, set good examples before their offspring
that they may become good, honorable men
and women, that they may walk in that
straight and narrow path that leads to eternal 
life, "For broad is the path that leads to des-


truction, and many there be that go in there-
at."
The monogamists of this community are
virtuous men; they cohabit with no other
women but their own wedded wives; but if they
believe what is written in the Bible about
Abraham and the Patriarchs having more
wives than one, they cannot set as jurors or
hold public office.  But God the Eternal
Father will appoint them judges to judge this
nation of their ungodly deeds, even as He ap-
pointed His servants the former day saints, to
judge.  I Cor. vi 2-3 "Do ye not know that
 the Saints shall judge the world, and if the 
world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy
to judge the smallest matter?"
"Know ye not that we shall judge angels?
how much more things that pertain to this
life?"
     So, you see that judges will be chosen from
the Lord's people, and not from those who
work iniquity.
     St. Luke xi; 52.  "Woe, unto you lawyers!
for ye have taken away the key of knowledge:
ye enetered not in yourselves, and them that
were netering in ye hindered."
     And in that day  they will begin to say,
"Have we not tried to bring to justice these
Latter-day Saints for breaking man-made
laws?  Have we not laid them under heavy bonds
and cast them into prison?  Have we not done
good to the community at large by making a 
stagnation of business? Inasmuch as we were
paid by Government and nothing came out of
our own pockets, we felt to do Uncle Same a 
great favor by spending a few thousand dol-
lars out of the treasury; if we let this people
alone they will become powerful in the land;
their industry must be checked; they are too
progressive, and they have a tendency to stand
at the head and lead out, by clinging to their
country and its laws; they are addicted to Bible
research and no others can confute the, they
believe all that is written therein is for learn-
ing and profit, which we cannot believe nor
countenance; they believe in its literal fulfill-
ment; which we spiritualize; they believe in the
true and living God, that can speak now as
formally, and we do here declare that he has
neither body, parts, nor passions, therefore, He
cannot hear nor speak, and yet He is one per-
son, the Father, Son and Holy Ghost.  Now,
this strange and outlandish people have dared
to differ from us and all other sects and people
throughout Christendom, and we will punish
them for it, as we did the prophets before them.
Mary Ann Merrill Pratt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. S., Y. L. M.  I.  A. & P. A. REPORTS

	BLUFF CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few lines from Bluff City
would not come amiss, we take pleasure in
writing that our Relief Society is trying to
keep along evenly with the rest of the branches
of the Relief Society as near as possible un-
der the circumstances, with a good spirit and
feeling at heart. 	
	We hold our testimony and teacher's meet-
ing once a month, and our working meetings
once in two weeks. We are few in number
but our meetings are well attended and our
desire is to do all the good we can in helping
to build up the Kingdom of God in this far
off land.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome visitor
to us, and is highly appreciated here; we also
have other Church works that are read with
interest.
	We have had a very pleasant winter, and
the health of the people is very good. There
has been no sickness nor death, for which we

[Column 2]
feel very thankful, and realize as a great bless-
ing. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion,
we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel, 
	JANE M. WALTON, President,
	IRENE HASKELL, Secretary.

	UTAH STAKE PRIMARY.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the business meet-
ing and conference of Primary Association of
Utah Stake, held in Provo City, Feb. 26th,
1885:
	The officers by invitation convened in the
4th Ward Society House at 10 o’clock a.m,
Prest. Annie K. Smoot presiding. Singing,
“Lord; we come before Thee now,”etc.; Prayer
by Sister Harriet Goodman; Singing, "I'll
praise my Maker while  I've breath" Roll
called and 22 wards and districts responded.
The financial report of the stake was then
read.
	Mrs. Annie K. Smoot was happy to meet
with so many of the sisters; made some very in-
structive and interesting remarks.
	Verbal reports were given by the officers of
the different associations.	 
	Prest. Louie Felt from Salt Lake City being
present gave some good counsel, and encour-
aged the sisters in the good work in which they
were engaged.
	Meeting was then adjourned until half past
one p.m. Benediction by Sister Sarah Roberts.
We then partook of lunch, which was provid-
ed by the officers of Provo. 
	Meeting adjourned to the Provo Tabernacle
for conference, Prest. Annie K. Smoot presid-
ing. Singing by the children, "A happy band
of children;" Prayer by Prest. David John;
Singing, "Am I a soldier of the cross." Prest.
John then put the names of the stake officers
before the meeting and they were voted in as
follows: Annie K. Smoot, President; Eliza-
beth Taylor and Sarah E. Cluff, Counselors;
Mary Stewart, Secretary; Grace Smith, Asst.
Sec.; Delia Maeser, Treasurer.	
	Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Programme was carried out with
songs, recitations, dialogues, etc., by the chil-
dren.
	Prest. Louie Felt made some very good re-
marks; told the children to try and learn some-
thing new every day. Closed by asking God
to bless all.
	Counselors E. Taylor and S. E. Cluff ex-
pressed their pleasure in meeting with Primary
Associations.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot thought the time
had been well spent; endorsed the remarks of
the sisters; prayed God to bless all the children
and all those interested in the Primary Asso-
ciations.
	Meeting adjourned for six months; Singing,
"Good night Chrous;" Benediction by Sister
Mary Duke.
	MARY STEWART, Sec.,
	GRACE SMITH, Asst. Sec.

	MORGAN STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society of Morgan Stake of Zion convened at
the South Morgan school house Jan. 21st,1885,
Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding. Service commenced
by singing, "Sweet is the work, my God, etc.;"
prayer by  Mrs. Ann Fry; singing, “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation.” Minutes of
previous conference read and accepted, also
statistical and financial reports of the eight or
nine branches of Morgan Stake, which showed
that the good sisters of Morgan have not slack-
ened in their efforts to do good and provide
for the wants of the needy.
	Coun. Martha Tonks spoke of the duties of
the R. S., and the necessity of all being con-
stantly on their guard les[-] they be overcome by
temptation. Admonished mothers to be punc-

[Column 3]
tual in sending their children to their meet-
ings.
	Mrs. Susannah Heiner, Prest of Y. L. M. I.
A., and Mrs. H. M. Thackeray bore testimony
to the truth of the Gospel and made some ex-
cellent remarks.
	Morning session closed by singing “Praise to
the man, etc.', Benediction by Prest. Sarah
Florence.	
	At 2 p.m. the conference again convened.
Opened by singing, "Great God attend while
Zion sings;" prayer by Prest. Fannie Taggar:;
singing, “May we who know the joyful sound.”
Prests. of branches then gave verbal reports of
their societies, after which Prest. W. G. Smith
made some very interesting and encouraging
remarks; spoke of the great blessings the Lord
has to bestow upon His saints if they will only
prepare themselves to receive them, he thought
the Lord was now blessing us all He could con-
sistently.
	Prest. Rich said she was much pleased with
the remarks made, and also the reports given.
Said there were many very good faithful sisters
here in this stake who are always at their
meetings, she always saw them when visiting
the branches and they were always on hand to
do all the good they could; she felt that the
Lord would bless and reward them for their
faithfulness. Urged the sisters to diligence
and punctuality in attending meetings and
other duties. Said it seems as though the
Lord blesses and multiplies the little means
donated to the Relief Society and they always
have somethiug to do good with, and so it will
always be if we are faithful. She felt to re-
member and sympathize with her sisters who
are so much tried in consequence of the per-
secutions of our enemies. Exhorted her sisters
to sustain each other and the Priesthood, teach
their children the principles of the Gospel, and
be saints at the fireside as well as elsewhere. 
	Mrs. Harriet Welsh, Prest. of Primary,made
some interesting remarks upon the duties of
wives and mothers, and the necessity of being
faithful; urged the sisters to send their children
to Primary meetings; said the associations were
organized to assist mothers in bringing up their
children.
	Mrs. H. C. Smith said that although there
had been great improvements made by the sec-
taries in getting up their statistical and finan-
cial reports, there was still room for improve-
ment, and thought it very important to have
them correct. Said this life is a school in
which we may learn by our own and each
others’exper[-]ence; bore testimony to the truth
of the work in which we are engaged, and
urged the sisters not to be discouraged in well-
doing but continue faithful to the end.
	Choir sang "Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing” Conference adjourned for three months.
benediction by Coun. M. A. Simmons. 

	UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held in the meeting
house. Provo City, February 27th, 1885, Presi-
dent Mary John presiding. Counselors Rhodo
Lyman and Emily G. Cluff were present, alsa
Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Lucy W. Kimball.
Opened with singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, and also statisti-
cal and financial reports of the county.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith the first speaker, said
she was pleased to behold the faces of the sis-
ters of Utah County; was interested in hearing
the reports. The labors of the sisters are as-
tonishing. and the amount of money they han-
dle. We are persecuted, but we are not
alarmed; we have been through persecution be-
fore; we are used to it. There is no justice for
us. Satan is trying to destroy the government
of God from off the earth; he knows his time
is short. We are in a school, being educated 
for the presence of the Lord. We need to ex-


amine ourselves, to see if we are obeying all
the commands of God.  If we wish to be
crowned we must be faithful.  I had rather
my life would be taken than deny one princi-
ple of our faith.  I feel to bless you, for you
are blessed.
  After singing, and benediction by Sister Ly-
man, conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
  Afternoon.  Conference opened with the
usual exercises of singing and prayer.
  Sister Emily G. Cluff made a few remarks,
and was followed by Sister L. W. Kimball,
who said she would much rather listen than
speak, but felt to respond to every call.  If we
did not know that God was at the helm we
would feel discouraged.  I feel the loss of our
beloved president, Ma Smoot, her genial smile,
her kiss of welcome.  But the Lord is just as
able to endow Sister John, and she has borne
the burden alone for a long time.  I pray the
Lord to bless each and every one with His
Spirit.
  Sisters Tanner and Bringhurst followed with
remarks appropriate for the occasion, and they
were followed by Mother Duke, saying, it is a
pleasure, my sisters, to behold your faces once
more; my soul rejoices.  Spoke of attending
the young people's conference; said the Lord
was working with them.  Reviewed our posi-
tion at Nauvoo, of the grief of the saints at
the death of the Prophet and Patriarch; of our
being driven from our homes, but said we
were in the hands of our Father; they can only
kill the body.  This may be the last time that
I shall meet with you, but if so, all is right. I
am in the hands of Father.
 Sister Snow Smith said, When we arise to
speak we need not say we feel weak, it is nat-
ural; we should not boast of our strength.
These Societies will be glorious.  We stand as
helpmeets to the Priesthood.  What sort of
people should we be?  At the head of all wo-
mankind; it is enough to humble us to the
earth.  I feel as though I wanted to bow at
the feet of the Savior.  I feel to mourn over a
sister that goes astray, and I ask God to shield
me from every spirit except the Spirit of God.
The hand of the Lord is apparent in these per-
secutions and He will overrule them for our
good; our greatest trials often become our
greatest blessings.  Let us pray without ceas-
ing, we can lift up our hearts to Him in prayer
while at work.  We want to educate our chil-
dren spiritually, mentally and morally, that
they may become men and women of God, etc.
  Sister Lyman made a few remarks, then Br.
John said, I can truly say that I have been
pleased with the remarks of our aged sisters.
Said we should never cease to learn, but keep
on progressing.  Let us keep our covenants.
We do not know how long the Lord will suffer
this cloud to hang over us; but there is light
beyond the clouds.  The city of Enoch was
composed of those of one heart and mind, and
we cannot be like them until we are more uni-
ted.  The devil is raging because we are trying
to build up the kingdom of God.  Be firm; we
will not give up one principle of our faith. We
are in the hands of our Father.
  Choir sang, "How firm a foundation, ye
saints of the Lord."  Conference adjourned
for three months.  Benediction by Prest.
David John.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.'


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
RICHMOND, Feb. 10, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
    Many times have I resolved on writing a few
lines about our Relief Soriety, but as procras-
tination is the thief of time so it has been
my bane in this regard.  Not because we have
no regard for our valuable paper, in which are
so many good things, all tending to the one


great object, as helps to build up the kingdom,
manifestatious of God’s goodness to His people,
strengtheners of our faith in His holy com-
mandments, knowing, learning that when He
says as thy day thy strength shall be, ’tis not
said in vain; every day, nay, every hour, He
shews forth to His people, if they will lean on
Him in the hour of distress, He is there, and
that for to bless, comfort and cheer. The
communications we read in our paper all tend
to make our hearts glad, knowing that our
God is no respecter of persons, but all who
will learn of His ways and walk in His paths
shall partake of His loving care.
	I will relate one circumstance of my life:
Soon after I joined the Church in England, be-
ing the only one of my family that had joined,
afterwards my aunt and mother yielded obedi-
ence to the truth, I was the only girl of a fam-
ily of boys, who were very much put out at
my joining the Latter-day Saints.  Polygamy
was not taught then.  I heard that it was to
be taught the next week, it was a great shock
to me, for I felt it was opposed to my feelings
and how could I face my brothers at such a
time. The members of the Church talked to
me,but 'twas to no purpose; they at last told me
to ask the Lord and He would give me a tes-
timony.  Very earnestly I prayed that if the
doctrine was true He would convince me of it,
for I could not fight within and without.  In
two hours from that time the knowledge was
given to me that it was true.  That was over
thirty years ago, I have never doubted that
principle, but came to Zion and lived in it,and
had my varied experience; ’twas true then, ’tis
still true, and God will fight our battles if we
live near unto Him.  He has promised that
He will make the wrath of man to praise His
holy name; the rest He will restrain.
	Let us lift up our hearts  continually in
prayer that God will hasten the time when
righteousness shall reign and wickedness cease.
God bless all Israel.
	Yours truly in the covenant,
					B M. B.
P. S. Our Relief Society as a whole is
doing well.  Our president and her aids strive
to co-operate together for the best good of the
whole, if any suffer it is because they do not
make their wants known.  Our reports were
considered satisfactory.  We are having rather
dull times here; cash very scarce, but we are
striving for our course, to be upward and on-
ward.


﻿On Tuesday, Feb. 24th, the chair laid before
the United States Senate a memorial from the
Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association
praying that Congress may take steps to pro-
hibit the disfranchisement of citizens of the
United States on account of sex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Fremont, Piute Co., Utah, Augusta L. Tay-
lor, dughter of James A. and Lousia Taylor, Feb. 10,
1885, aged six years, six months and fifteen days. At a 
meeting of the Fremont Primary Association the fol-
lowing resolutions of respect were adopted:
	Whereas, by an irrevocable decree of an alwise provi-
dence, our worthy young sister, Augusta L., has been
taken from our midst,
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved family
and friends, in the loss of their dear one, not, however,
without the consoling reflection that she will come
forth in the morning of the first resurrection. 
	Resolved, That this be made a matter of record in the
Primary Association, and a copy be presented to the
parents of deceased, and also sent to the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT for publication. 
	And, whereas she was always a willing and active 
member of our Association, we, the members of the
same, feel to make and accept these resolutions of re-
spect and condolence.
				MARGARET J. TAYLOR, President,
				SARAH A. ALDER, Secretary.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868
Z.C.M.I
﻿SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENS WARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,  
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND FEWEST DESIGNS. 
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
-----------------------------------------
Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will he found the latest styles and productions
				    in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses', and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116,118 East Temple Street.
-----------------------------------------------------------
Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains. Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS’ Prices, by
					MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road:
------------------------------------------------------------------
FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address, David James 806 Salt Lake City.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
