VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1885.	NO. 24.


TRUTH.

SUGGESTED BY SEEING THE FIGURE OF TRUTH
HOLDING THE LAMP ABOVE HER HEAD, AND
IN HER LEFT HAND A MIRROR.

Truth! thou pure and heavenly maiden!
	Daughter of a sire divine
Of a mother gospel-laden,
	Of a long, unsullied line.

By thy robe of purest whiteness,
	By the lamp above thy head,
By the mirror in its brightness—
	By all these may I be led
Through the oft bewildering mazes
	Human footsteps have to trace
Through the wondrous varied phases
	Met within life's complex race.

"What is truth?" was Pilate's query,
	Man of half awaken'd soul,
Little ken'd he one so dreary,
	He just pass'd His earthly goal,
Could be truth personified!
	The Son of man to whom the world
Yet should own Him deified
	By the motto He unfurled.

Truth!—how few its power defining
	Have the wisdom or the will—
Crowds we see it oft declining,
	Fondly nursing error still.

In this word, that has no equal,
	What a volume lies unread;
Eternity contains the sequel,
	By heavenly oil its lamp is fed.

Oh! may truth, by God's own Spirit,
	On my heart, my lips, my brain,
Be impressed by its own merit,
	And all its wealth may they retain.

Truth, God's motto, is eternal
	As the heavens eternal are;
Blooming bright, and ever vernal
	Like yon glorious Polar Star!

Let us guard it as the jewel
	That shall blaze around our crown
When we pass a life renewal,
	When we lay the earthly down.

		HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, May 4th, 1883.


MY SHIP.

As I stand by life's ocean its waves kiss my feet,
And its murmuring music falls softly and sweet
On my ear, that has listed its wild, stormy roar,
Bringing peace to my soul, for the conflict is o'er.

Oh! wild was the storm when I stood here before,
And watched for the barque which the waves drove
	ashore,
The barque I sent forth in the balmy spring time
To gather me treasures in love's sunny clime.

I gazed on the wreck, now washed by the tide,
And then at the ocean, dark, treacherous, wild,
'Til faint-hearted and weary I sat down to weep
O'er the ruins wide strewn on the shores of the deep.

Then unto my spirit a voice whispered low,
Examine this wreck, that you better may know
How to build a staunch ship that can brave every gale,
Nor e'en before treachery's fierce dart will fall.

This one you sent forth in the morning's calm hour,
Not knowing the day would bring wild winds and
	shower,
Not knowing that shoals lie beneath the calm wave,
Or where reefs and wild rocks hide the poor seaman's 
	grave.

You built all of rosewood, with colors most fair,
With gems and with jewels so costly and rare.


You gave, freely gave of your heart's richest store
To build this fair barque whose brief voyage is o'er.

The clime that you seek beams with radiant light,
But by clouds lowering dark 'tis oft veiled from the
	sight;
And its diamonds gleam brightest with shadows around,
Its flowers oft sweetest in dark, stony ground.

Then seek out each part that has stood this hard test,
Find what is enduring, trustworthy and best,
And build from this wreck of thy once happy dream
A ship that will bear you o'er life's darkest stream.
		HOPE.
	May 4th, 1885.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

	The age in which we live is one of much
speculation in reference to woman's proper
sphere, her privileges and rights as a citizen
of the world, and considerable jealousy has
been exhibited by some of the lords of creation
in view of her growing influence, and much
uneasiness is felt by this class in beholding her
hitherto latent powers and capabilities making
themselves manifest in the counting room, in
the management and direction of educational
institutions, in the proficiency and throughness
that she exhibits in the practice of medicine
and surgery, as well as in her adaptability to
successfully fill other places of equal responsi-
bility, that men only have heretofore occupied.
Many cowardly thrusts are made at women
because of these aggressions upon the usages
and customs of society that have become venera-
ted by age. The idea of women voting at the
polls, and perhaps, thereby, determining the
result of an election, is viewed as dangerous in
the extreme; and despite all her efforts to se-
cure this privilege sustaining her rightful claim
thereto, by arguments that are unanswerable, and
supported by reasons the most conclusive, yet
her success thus far has been very meagre com-
pared with her untiring efforts—efforts that are
worthy of the bravest men, and will, by and
by, be rewarded beyond her present anticipa-
tion; for if I estimate her rightly she will never
yield until the object sought for is attained, and
as the barriers that stand in the way of her ad-
vancement and promotion are thrown down
one by one, her ingress into places and posi-
tions, now denied her, will be rendered more
easy, and thus, almost without effort, will she
step into and occupy the sphere that by nature
and endowment she is qualified to fill.
	In making these statements I do not wish to
be understood as agreeing with many of the
sentiments of the extreme class, who assert 
propositions, establish hypothesis, and make
deductions therefrom that cannot be sustained
by sound, philosophic reasons, but are in direct 
opposition to all true and correct principles.
Our fitness and adaptability for the various
positions of life is determined by and is in per-
fect harmony with our physical organizations,
as the mental powers are in harmony with and
not adverse to our physical structure. If they
were not disaster and destruction would neces-
sarily follow, and life cease to be. If the world
of mankind, and womankind, too, understood
this principle correctly they would know that
our right to the occupancy of place and posi-
tion, in short, that our true sphere is deter-
mined by our powers of creation.
	This idea, novel as it may be, will bear the
closest scrutiny and the severest criticism; be-
cause it is founded in truth, and is a full and
complete answer to all the theories that are ad-

[Column 2]

vanced upon the much vexed question of
"woman's rights." But as I am only writing for
the women of Mormondom I need not enlarge
upon this point, because there is no serious
discussion among our sisters upon these ques-
tions that are so universally agitated in the
outside world.
	The influence of women upon society at
large is recognized as very powerful, but more
directly is this felt in the home circle, whether
as daughter, sister, wife or mother. There are
among women, as among men, leading spirits;
those who possess minds filled with progressive
thoughts and ideas, and if circumstances de-
prove them from the legitimate exercise of these
natural endowments, then is society not only 
the loser, but these individuals are apt to
chafe and fret, dissatisfied alike with them-
selves, as well as the world at large, and yet,
perhaps, unable to assign a cause for their dis-
satisfaction. On the other hand there are some
who are full of vanity, conceit and foolish
ambition, who force themselves into places they
are totally unfit to fill. Such are the anomal-
ies that are presented in this life, and never
will be fully corrected until God reveals the
true order of things as relating to both man and
woman.
	But it is the influence of women upon society
in the midst of the Latter-day Saints to which
I desire to call special attention. There are
many evils that exist among us that I believe
women are capable of correcting, and to a
great extent are capable of removing. I would 
go further still, and say there are many evils
that their influence might prevent, which is
far better than to correct those which already
exist.
	Woman, as a mother, may be said to have
reached the goal of her earthly existence, for
here, it seems to me, is the place where she has
ample scope for the exercise of those latent
powers which develop and draw out the full
force of all her endowments, both physical and
mental, and in the exercise of which her joy is
made full and complete. As a mother she is a 
more considerate and tender daughter, and her
parents are robbed of no part of her affection
by herself becoming a mother; whereas to-
wards her husband, that intense feeling of love
which rewarded wedlock brings, never would
have exhibited itself had offspring been denied
her, and duty to a husband is not forgotten by
any true woman because of the extra care that
children brings. Here is the true foundation
of society—the state—the nation; and here,
also, is determined its quality, be it good or bad.
Wise statesmanship, necessary in all good gov-
ernments; integrity and honesty in business;
ability, and all the virtues that adorn man and
woman in all the various positions they occupy,
can be traced to, and is the result of the care
and training of good, wise, prudent and loving
mothers. This being the case, even in the out-
side world, what course should the mothers in
Israel pursue who are entrusted with the care
and training of the future children of Zion,
who have been born legal heirs to the Priest-
hood, and in whose lives should not only be
perpetuated the powers, but the righteousness
of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and their wives
also, in whom all the kingdoms of the earth
will be blessed.
	Women, favored of God as ours are with
such precious jewels, have no need to spend
their time in unprofitable controversy upon the
securing of rights which the heavens will most


[Column 1]

assuredly secure to every faithful mother in
Israel; but rather should she devote her time
to the proper culture and correct training of
her offspring, and thus secure her future happi-
ness as well as her present enjoyment in the
honorable representation such children will
bring her.
	I pity the woman that feels that the care and
training of children is a burden, an irksome
task, and who gives into the hands of the
stranger that labor to be performed, which
should be the greatest joy of her life. In pro-
portion as this duty is neglected, so will
mothers feel condemned when they see the re-
sult of such neglect in their unworthy children.
But should such neglected children develop
worthy traits and honorable lives the reflection
must come to her that it is the result of other
causes than her motherly care and judicious
training. On the other hand, should any of
her children prove recreant and unworthy she
will still have the satisfaction of knowing that
she has done her duty, and this reflection will
assuage her grief and soothe her disappoint-
ment.
	Those mothers are indeed to be pitied whose
entire time is spent in providing,what we term,
nice food and fine clothing for her children,
and have no spare moments in which to im-
prove their minds and teach them the princi-
ples of eternal life. They may plead as an
excuse that society demands the former at their
hands, thus leaving no time for the latter.
	Then here it is that we would ask that
woman's influence be brought to bear to correct 
a grievous wrong, and let that influence be
universal, for we cannot afford to sacrifice such.
God-like traits at the shrine of the very fashion-
able demands of society; let us rather return
to simple food and raiment, both of which are
more healthful and more pleasing to our Hea-
venly Father.
	Women and children are slaves to society,
and the slavery is becoming more intolerable
every day. Luxurious tastes and habits are
evils in more ways than one. How many
young people are deterred from marrying be-
cause they cannot commence life with as good
a showing as to home,furnishings,appointments,
etc, that are at least the equal, if not the su-
perior, of their friends and acquaintances. To
start out in life as her mother did would be
humiliating in the extreme, for if the bride is
a competent housewife, (which, however,is not
always the case) still society demands that she
employ a servant to do her work. Instead of
her home being rendered doubly dear by fur-
nishing and embellishments as the result of her
own handiwork,the upholsterer and others have
supplied every necessary, except a few trifling
nick-nacks. Too often the time of a young
wife is spent in unprofitable visits, or in the
pursuit of pleasures and enjoyments that she
must provide in return, no matter at what cost
or sacrifice, and all to satisfy the demands of
society.
	We have our progressive Euchre and fashion-
able card parties, as well as other gatherings
that are not at all remarkable for their sim-
plicity, or their intellectual enjoyment. Some
excuse themselves for these indulgences be-
cause dancing now-a-days is too tame, shorn, as
it is,of the fashionable (but health-destroying)
waltz,polka and schottische,which excuse means
that we are determined to copy after the ways
of the world, and should it be forbidden in
one thing, we will introduce another.
	All these things have their tendency to evil,
and woman's influence can be used, if she so
desire, to check the growth of many of these
practices, and thus save much heart sorrow in
the future.
	While I believe we should seek to make
home the happiest and most desirable place on
theearth, by furnishing every legitimate amuse-
ment and pleasure, yet it is at home, also, where

[Column 2]

God should be taught, as well as the principles
of our holy religion. This labor should not be
left exclusively to the Sabbath School, the Prim-
ary Association, or the preacher upon the
Sabbath day, but let parents, in the after life
of their children, receive the credit due for a
faithful performance of their duty in this re-
gard. We need not be afraid of our children
becoming too religious for the tendency is in
the opposite direction, and an unceasing dili-
gence on our part will secure to them no more
of this element than they will absolutely
need. 	
	We might continue this subject, and I think
profitably, to a much greater length, but this
is enough for one article, and the writer hopes
it may receive the consideration which its im-
portance demands.
	JOSEPH E. TAYLOR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	St. George, Utah, April 20th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At two o’clock to-day the officers and mem-
bers of the Third Ward Relief Society met at
the residence of Father Edson Barney, in honor
of his wife, Sister Lillis Barney, attaining to
her 80th Birthday.
	Mother Barney, with her husband, was bap-
tized into the Church in 1831, and have passed
through all the persecutions and have shared
in all its arduous labors and privations up to
the present day, and have assisted in the con-
struction, dedication, and in ministering in the
Temple at Kirtland, Nauvoo and St. George.
Sister Barney’s children, with grand and great
grandchildren, number over seventy.
	Our social gathering was honored by some
of our aged and most respected veterans, of
whom were Fathers Barney, Hardy, Empy and
Patriarch Johnson.  Our meeting was opened
by singing, and prayer by the Patriarch, after
which Mother Barney addressed the meeting
in a feeling and touching manner, showing her
appreciation of the honor bestowed upon her,
and how much she desired to bless and comfort
all her sisters.  She was followed by Father
Barney, who spoke in an earnest and feeling
manner of his experience in the Church in its
earliest days, after which Father Hardy, Empy
and Johnson bore their testimonies, and by the
Spirit of the Lord, with which they seemed
filled, spoke many things to edify, cheer and
comfort our hearts, and to pronounce blessings
upon our heads.  They were followed by near-
ly all the sisters present, who made spirited
and feeling remarks, and the Spirit of the
Lord seemed to rest upon all present in rich
abundance.
	The table was then spread with everything
that would please the eye and cheer the heart,
and all partook until they were satisfied, after
which we indulged in singing hymns, songs,
toasts and recitations, followed with a closing
address by the Patriarch, and all seemed to
feel with Sister Barney, that it was a time long
to be remembered.  All joined in wishing that
she might live to realize the fulfillment of the
promise made to her by the Patriarch Joseph
Smith Sen.—that she should live to see the
coming of the Son of man upon the earth, in
which she has abiding faith,
	HANNAH NIXON, President,
	AGNES McQUARRIE, Secretary.


TO THE Y. L. M. I. A., BURNHAM.

To the Y. L. M. I. A. of Burnham Ward, New
Mexico.
DEAR GIRLS:
 	Having a feeling of love for you, and a de-
sire to be remembered by you, I endeavor to
write a few lines, which will be but little,


nevertheless we often show our true characters
by little acts, and our life is made up of little
things, therefore we should attend to all our
little duties promptly and faithfully, for the
little acts are the elements of true greatness,
and if we have any good acts they are gifts
from God, and should be cultivated, no matter
how small they are. Even a smile or a kind
word often heals a wounded heart; and remem-
ber, one unkind word often wounds a heart.
We should study never to speak one word to
hurt or injure another, and always try to speak
well of every one, and be not too hasty to
credit evil reports; wait and learn the whole
truth before you decide, and remember, an in-
jurious rumor originated, perhaps, in sportive
gossip, once attached to a person’s name will
remain beside it a blemish and a doubt forever.
But it is too much the nature of all to speak
and believe evil of another, and thus we go on
day after day throwing stones at each other.
	Then let us each one, as daughters of Zion,
shun such a principle, and if we have evil
spoken of us walk lightly by it, and try to
prove to the world it is not true; and let us
remember we make our own character, and
we should ever be ready to cultivate the facul-
ties God has given us.
	There are girls who choose truth and honesty
as a soul companion, and their words and
actions proclaim it, and their feet tread the
paths of virtue; it makes them pure and noble,
and they are loved by all who know them; and
when God looks around for His jewels they
are the girls His eyes rest on. From your
	Friend and Sister,
		CLARA.
Logan, April 17th, 1885.


A WORD FROM WEST WEBER.

	April the 1st the members of the Relief So-
ciety, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary Associations,
 and a number of the brethren of the West
Weber Ward, met at the school house to pre-
sent Prest. Mary Douglass with a small token
of respect.
	Almost the entire company were there at the
appointed hour, which made it quite a surprise 
to her, not having the slightest idea of the pro-
ceedings. A beautiful easy chair was presented
to her by the sisters, and the following lines
were composed and read by Bro. Archibald Mc-
Farland:
To our honored President and fellow laborer, Sis-
ter Mary Douglass.
	We, The members of the Relief Society,
take pleasure in expressing goodwill toward 
you on this occasion, and request your accept-
ance of a small token of our confidence and es- 
teem, in which we trust you may often enjoy
the rest so justly due one as efficient in every
good work as you have ever been.
	Sister Mary Douglass returned her thanks
to the sisters for the handsome present, and
their goodwill toward her.	
	The West Weber Brass band was in attend-
ance, and played some lively airs. The tables
were spread with the good things of the earth,
and a bounteous dinner was partaken of, which
added much to the pleasure and comfort of the
party.
	After the dinner tables were cleared away,
Bishop J. I. Hart and Counselor James F.
Hunter and Bro. A. McFarland made some
excellent remarks, suitable for the occasion.
	After the speakers were through the Primary
children engaged in a dance. At seven o'clock
in the evening the aged brethren and sisters
convened in a dance and songs.
	A good spirit prevailed, and all enjoyed
themselves. In conclusion it was a day long to
be remembered by all present.
		PUAH S. HART, Secretary,
		FRANCIS C. HART, Ass't Secretary.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	Nellie Johnson, daughter of Heber F. and Lizzie
Johnson, was born May 13th, 1884; died March 17th,
1885.
	LITTLE NELLIE.
Tiny little fingers, but oh! so strong their hold,
Little waxen fingers now so still and cold;
Fold them very gently, for their work is done.
Her earthly sojonrn's ended, her heavenly home is won.

Just for one little moment sent from God above, 
Bringing a gleam of sunshine, lighting hearts with
	love;
Pure as any snowdrop, and as fleeting was her stay,
But her coming brought sweet flowers to life's weary.
	way,

To be remembered often, for their fragrance ne'er will
	die,
And she's waiting for her loved ones in that blessed
	home on high,
Beyond the grave’s dark portal, where all parting will
	be o'er,
Waiting in joy to greet them on the bright golden shore.

So lay it very gently, her little form to rest, 
The germ of life immortal is now with heaven's blest.
"Suffer the little children," said Christ, "to come to
	me,"
And we, too, must be like Him if His kingdom we
	would see.

Lay away the little tokens of her short life on the earth,
Think and speak about her often, as ye gather round
	the hearth,
For 'twill bring pure thoughts and feelings, turning
	them to God,
And His Spirit’s power will help you to bow beneath
the rod.

Ah! there are many households who have lost their
	treasures thus—
But no, not lost! in heaven there’s neither moth nor
	rust.
So dry the scalding teardrops, repress the weary sigh,
And prepare to meet the loved ones in the “sweet bye
and bye."		S. E. R.


LINES

ADDRESSED TO THE CRUCIFIXION VINE, OR PASSION-
FLOWER.

Curious flower-vine of sacred love,
Giving a history of one above;
Teaching a lesson of wondrous truth
To the aged, as well as the youth—
You teach that nature is truly kind,
Though false and wicked are mankind.
She gave a witness, who saw Him slain,
She sympathized with our Savior's pain.
Yes, little flower, you are a living proof,
A silent witness of eternal truth;
You show the nails that held His hands and feet,
And the hammers that drove them complete;
Also the blood veins so gory red,
With the thorny crown that bound His head;
And the long sharp spear beside,
Which pierced so deep His bleeding side.
The three days that He laid in the tomb,
Before He went to His heavenly home,
Are also numbered quite true by thee,
Sweet Floria's history of that tree.
And the twelve apostles we count in thy leaves,
That form the crown for which nature grieves;
And the grave we can find, also,
Among the leaves that round the cross do grow.
Sorrowfully up that cross you did climb,
To witness that awful deed of crime;
And though they killed the body dear
You ever live trusting souls to cheer;
Full of life, thou eternal evergreen,
Like His Spirit you so surely seem;
Ever with your green hand pointing above,
Where ever lives One who died for love.
"Passion-flower" is thy beauteous name,
Great and worthy is thy sweet, fair fame;
Among all the children of all men
You are the Great Author's pen.
Ah! how simple, how easy, how plain
To read Thy words of suffering pain,
How great thy mission, little vine—


How grand, how gloriously sublime!
Oh! who can doubt, when they gaze on thee,
That Jesus died for us upon that tree.
	M. O. KELTING.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	"Thursday, the 19th. We passed through the
town as soon as it was light, and before the in-
habitants were risen from their slumbers, meet-
ing with no opposition, but we had not proceed-
ed many miles before one wagon broke down,
and by the time that was repaired wheels ran
off from others, and such like incidents con-
tinued through the day to impede our progress.
When we started in the morning we intended
to arrive in Clay County that day, but in vain.
At a seasonable hour we encamped on an ele-
vated piece of ground between two branches of
Fishing River, having traveled about fifteen
miles. Fishing River, at this point, was com-
posed of seven small streams,and those between
which we encamped were two of them. As we
halted and were making preparations for the
night, five men, armed with guns, rode into our
camp, and told us we should see hell before
morning,and their accompanying oaths partook
of all the malice of demons. They told us
that sixty men were coming from Richmond,
Ray County, and seventy more from Clay Co.,
sworn to our utter destruction. The weather
was pleasant at this time.
	"During this day the Jackson County mob,
to the number of about two hundred, made
arrangements to cross the Missouri River,
about the mouth of Fishing River, at Williams
Ferry, into Clay County, and be ready to meet
the Richmond mob near Fishing River Ford,
for our utter destruction; but after the first
scow load of about forty had been set over the
river, the scow, in returning, was met by a
squall and had great difficulty in reaching the
Jackson side by dark.
	"Soon after the five men left the camp,swear-
ing vengeance, we discovered a small black
cloud rising in the west, and in twenty minutes,
or there abouts, it began to rain and hail, and
this was the squall that troubled the Jackson
boat. The storm was tremendous; wind and
rain, hail and thunder met them in great wrath,
and soon softened their direful courage, and
frustrated all their designs to "kill Joe Smith
and his army." Instead of continuing a can-
nonading, which they commenced—the sun
about one hour high—they crawled under
wagons, into hollow trees, filled one old shanty,
etc., till the storm was over, when their ammu-
nition was soaked,and the forty in Clay County
were extremely anxious, in the morning, to re-
turn to Jackson,having experienced the pitiless
peltings of the storm all night; and as soon as
arrangements could be made this "forlorn
hope" took the "back track" for Independence,
to join the main body of the mob, fully satisfied,
as were those survivors of the company who
were drowned, that when Jehovah fights they
would rather be absent. The gratification is
too terrible.
	"Very little hail fell in our camp, but from
half to a mile around the stones, or lumps of
ice, cut down the crops of corn and vegetation
generally, even cutting limbs from trees; them-
selves twisted into withes by the winds. The
lightning flashed incessantly, which caused it
to be so light in our camp, through the night,
that we could discern the most minute object;
and the roaring of the thunder was tremendous.
The earth trembled and quaked, the rain fell
in torrents, and, united, it seemed as though
the mandate of vengeance had gone forth from
the God of battles to protect His servants from
the destruction of their enemies, for the hail

[Column 2]

fell on them and not on us, and we suffered no
harm except the blowing down of some of our
tents and getting some wet, while our enemies
had holes made in their hats, and otherwise re-
ceived damage, even the breaking of their rifle
stocks, and the fleeing of their horses through
fear and pain.
	"Many of my little band sheltered in an old
meeting house through this night, and in the
morning the water in Big Fishing River was
about forty feet deep; the previous evening it
was no more than to our ankles, and our ene-
mies swore that the water rose thirty feet in
thirty minutes in the little Fishing River.
	"Friday, the 20th. We went five miles on
the prairie to procure food for ourselves and
horses, and establish ourselves for the moment
in some secure place where we could defend
ourselves from the rage of our enemies, and
while in this situation, on Saturday, the 21st,
Col. Sconce, with two other leading men from
Ray County, came to see us, desiring to know
what our intentions were; "For," said he, "I
see there is an an almighty power which pro-
tects this people, for I started from Richmond,
Ray County, with a company of armed men,
having a full determination to destroy you, but
was kept back by the storm, and was not able
to reach you."
	"When he entered our camp he was seized
with such a trembling that he was obliged to
sit down and compose himself; and when he
had made known the object of their visit, I
arose, and addressing them, gave a relation of
the sufferings of the Saints in Jackson County,
and also of our persecutions generally, and
what we had suffered by our enemies for our
religion, and that we had come one thousand
miles to assist our brethren, to bring them
clothing etc., and to reinstate them upon their
own lands, and that we had no intention to
molest or injure any people, but only to ad-
minister to the wants of our afflicted friends,
and that the evil reports circulated about us
were false, and got up by our enemies to pro-
cure our destruction.
	"When I had closed a lengthy speech, the
spirit of which melted them into compassion,
they arose and offered me their hands and said
they would use their influence to allay the ex-
citement which everywhere prevailed against
us, and they wept when they heard of our
afflictions and persecutions, and that our inten-
tions were good. Accordingly they went forth
and rode among the people, and made un-
wearied exertions to allay the excitement.
	A revelation was given while they were en-
camped on Fishing River, in Missouri, June
22nd, 1834.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Women are soon to be employed as telegraph
operators in Japan.
	This year's vote on the municipal woman
suffrage bill in the Massachusetts Legislature
is 61 ayes to 130 noes, and 7 pairs. Last year
it was 50 ayes to 144 noes, and 11 pairs.
	The Austrian Ladies' String Band is giving
concerts in London under the direction of
Mme. Leopoldine Auer, of the Conservatoire of
Vienna. The twelve performers are all ladies
and prize medalists. The orchestral entertain-
ment they afford is varied by several songs,
contributed by Miss Hochheimer.—Ex.
	The London Daily News of April 11 con-
tains a graphic and picturesque account of the
ceremony attending the bestowal of degrees
upon the Prince and Princess of Wales by the
Royal University of Ireland. The Prince re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Laws, the Prin-
cess that of Doctor of Music.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00.  A liberal discount to
reular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of 
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO PROTEST!

	That these are momentous and eventful times
are only weak terms of expressing what is now
transpiring in the midst of this people. It is
frequently remarked that these things have
been anticipated; they are in fulfillment of
prophecy, but does that make the situation less
important, and is it not our duty to protest
against injustice and wrongs, against those who
seek to take away our place and despoil us of
our inheritances, as much as though these
prophecies had never been uttered? Certainly.
The Lord has said importune for your rights, lay
your grievances before the chief men of the na-
tion, and petition for redress of your wrongs.
And so, after having borne insult and injury,
the brethren having been condemned to prison
without testimony, and many obliged to flee to
avoid being entrapped in snares set to catch
them, after having suffered these, and many
other grave indignities, the people, acting upon
the suggestion of leading men, who are presumed
to be influenced by a higher power than the
Territorial courts, suggested a way, by means
of which the people could give expression to
the grievances under which they were suffering,
and protest against the wrongs that were being
inflicted.
	Accordingly, a committee of twenty-two in-
telligent and representative men from all
parts of the Territory were appointed at
the General Conference in Logan, April,
1883, to draft a series of resolutions, and a 
protest, to be sent to the President of the
United States, asking for redress or investigation,
and protesting against further inhuman pro-
ceedings until a special report could be made.
This Declaration of Grievances and Protest were
carefully prepared, and every point now under
discussion made specific and clear, and presented
in the most respectful manner so that there
could be no offense taken, even in the wording
of the document; and after the committee had
completed the work, a mass meeting was called,
to convene in the county town of each Stake of
Zion, on Saturday, the 2nd of May, to ratify in
general assembly the Declaration and Protest,
and to give expression to the feelings and senti-
ments of the people on the subject, which, at
the present time lies nearest their hearts.
	The mass meeting held in Salt Lake City
convened in the large Tabernacle at one o'clock
p.m., on the day appointed, and was a large and
an enthusiastic gathering of a multitude of peo-
pel. Hon. Wm. Jennings called the vast assem-
bly to order, and nominated Hon. John T. Caine
as chairman. The motion was seconded and
carried unanimously. Heber M. Wells was
elected Secretary, and proceeded to read the call
for the meeting. Masers Wm. Jennings, T.
G. Webber, E. A. Smith, C. D. Brinton, and
Miss Mary E. Cook and Dr. Romania B. Pratt

[Column 2]

were nominated and sustained as Vice Chairmen,
and Mr. Wm. M. Stewart and Mrs. Cornella H.
Clayton as Assistant Secretaries. The choir
sang, "O say what is truth?', Prayer was of-
fered by Apostle H. J. Grant. Music by the
S. S. Union brass band.
	The Chairman then stated briefly the object
of the meeting, and made the opening speech,
in which he gave a graphic description of some
of the persecutions and hardships bravely en-
dured by this people, and related something of
their history since the first settlement of 
Utah.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney then read, in a power-
ful and forcible manner, the Declaration of
Grievances and Protest, to the President and
People of the United States. The reading was
greeted with frequent bursts of hearty and pro-
longed applause. Hon. James Sharp, Mayor of
the city, moved the adoption of the Declaration
and Protest. Seconded.
	Bishop John. Q. Cannon made a short, but
strong and forcible speech, in which he stated
that this protest was not made with cringing or
shrinking, but with an unflinching determina-
tion to maintain the right. "The causes which
impel us are mighty. The only parallel in
American history was at the commencement of
the Revolutionary war." At the close music by
the brass band.
	Junius F. Wells Esq. delivered a telling
speech on the situation at the present time, and
illustrated his arguments by positive testimony
of facts, which are beyond contradiction. Music
by Fireman's band.
	Hon. F. S. Richards made the most purely
logical speech of the day. Referred to the Utah
Commissioners and their work, the test oath
they had introduced, and closed by saying that
whatever might be the result of this appeal to 
the American people, "History will do us
justice, and we will be vindicated in the protest
adopted here to-day."  Prof. J. J. Daynes per-
formed a solo on the grand organ.
	B. H. Roberts Esq. was the last of the speak-
ers. His manner was very earnest and impres-
sive, and he spoke feelingly of the homes of the
people and the rights of freemen, and denoun-
ced unsparingly the official acts of the Governor
and the courts in dealing with "Mormons."
	The speakers, with the exception of the chair-
man, are all young men born and reared in
Utah, and they have shown pretty well of what
mettle they are made. And there are thousands
like them in these mountain vales.
	The Declaration of Grievances and Protest
were ratified and adopted with all the enthu-
siasm of a people whose souls were inspired with
zeal for the cause they represented. Messrs
John T. Caine, John W. Taylor, John Q. Can-
non were unanimously chosen as a delegation to
proceed to Washington and present the docu-
ment to the President of the United States.
	The choir sang the national anthem "America."
Adjourned sin[-] die. Benediction by Bishop O.
F. Whitney.


[Column 1]

SOME IMPORTANT MATTERS. 

	Since the last issue of our paper, on the 1st of
May, several events of great importance to this
people have transpired. Four of the Elders of
Israel have been sentenced to the Penitentiary
for obeying a vital principle of the religion
which is a part, as it were, of their very life.
	Persecution seems indeed a portion of the
heritage bequeathed to the Saints of God, and
can those who live in the last dispensation of
the fulness of times expect to escape it? It
"must needs be that offences come," said the
Savior, "but woe, be to them by whom they
come!" And to-day it is our firm conviction
that those brethren who are imprisoned for the

[Column 2]

Gospel's sake are happier in their prison than
those who were the means of sending them to
that miserable place, built solely for persons who
are guilty of actual crime. These brethren are
innocent of evil, but a law has been made to
make a crime of that which is not sin in the
sight of God. In fact of what God himself has
positively approved,if one believes the Scriptures.
How many more must yet pass through this try-
ing ordeal is not known; but what Latter-day
Saint can help rejoicing in the heroism and
integrity of those valiant men. Is it not a testi-
mony to all the world that they are not ashamed
of the Gospel of Christ which they have es-
poused, and that they are willing to suffer rather
than deny a principle revealed for the salvation
and exaltation of the human family?
	The opposing influence and powers of dark-
ness may be, and perhaps are strong against
this people at the present time, but they cannot
break asunder the bonds that bind the Saints
together, the covenant people of God, nor can
they hinder the increase of His people through
the channel which He has appointed, viz, "the
marriage relation," which they specify and lay
such stress upon. They may have power to
break up some homes, temporarily, and scatter
the families, but though separated from each
other, God will be with them and will bring
them together again, for their trust is in Him
who holds the destinies of nations in His hands,
and who can command even the waves of the
sea, and say, "Thus far shalt thou go and no
farther," and here shall thy proud waves be
stayed.
	The Latter day Saints have nothing to fear if
they are only faithful and true to the covenants
they have made to God and to each other. The
Scripture says, "Fear not those that can kill
the body, but rather fear Him who can cast both
soul and body into hell." But while we watch
and pray that we may be preserved from evil in-
fluences and the powers of darkness, and from
wicked and designing men, who rejoice when
the servants of God are betrayed into their hands,
let us watch, as well as pray, and guard our-
selves from all foes within and without, and be
wise and prudent in all we do or say, and "re-
member them that are in bonds as bound with
them." They are suffering for a principle, one
that is repugnant to the world because of its
purity, for the world loves its own. The very
men who condemn the Latter-day Saints for the
practice of a pure and holy principle, which
they themselves acknowledge to be a part of the
religious faith of the "Mormon" people, have,
during the recent trials, admitted that the Ed-
munds law was made specially for those who
entered into the marriage relation, and not for
those who were guilty of adultery and similar
offences against good order and decency.
	So much for so much; those who are thus as-
sociated should look upon this as an honor,
though unwittingly rendered; thus, even these
officials, who are seeking to bring this people
into bondage, are bound to acknowledge a cer-
tain superiority in the Latter-day Saints. And
did not Judge Zane admit, in his answer to Bro.
Musser's questions, that the wives were equal,
when he said he might take either one of them
as his wife, but only one?
	It is plain to see that every now and then they
get beyond their level, and make the rulings of
the court a jest and a byword. But the Lord
will confound them, by and by, as completely as
He did the people who tried to make a tower
that would reach unto heaven, if not in the
same way.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the the an-
nual meeting of the Relief Society of the 19th
Ward of this city, on Tuesday, May 5th, at two


p.m., Mrs. Rachel Whipple presiding. The
minutes and annual report were read and ap-
proved, and the meeting was addressed by Sis-
ters E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney, E. B. Wells,
M. I. Horne, L. W. Kimball, C. C. Raleigh,Ann
Player, H. P. Fulsom J. McKinny, Bishop
Watson, Bro. Bowman and Prest. Whipple. It
was an interesting meeting, and a good spirit
prevailed throughout. The Society have a very
good and comfortable building of their own, and
have done an immense work for the needy in
the ward, which is a very large one, and their
labors are greatly appreciated by their Bishop,
with whom they work in the most complete
harmony.
	THE recent decision of the Supreme Court of
United States in the Utah cases is certainly a
very important ruling, and should be carefully
read and studied by the people of Utah—women
as well as men, because much is involved in the
interpretation of its proceedings that is of vital
interest to this people. The part which relates
to the registration and elections is one that de-
mands immediate attention, as it gives to some
that were heretofore excluded from the polls, the
right to register and vote, but there are certain
rules and regulations which have a special
bearing upon this matter, which render it posi-
tively necessary that every person should under-
stand intelligently whether he or she is entitled
to register or not. It is such a complicated
matter that it would be very easy for a person
to make an innocent mistake, which might have
a very serious result. In view of the doubtful
points to those who are unsophisticated in such
matters, yet anxious to exercise the right of
franchise, it seems wisdom to say, "Be sure you
are right, and then go ahead." There is cer-
tainly need of every vote that can legally be cast,
but let all things be done in accordance with the
regulations given to govern these matters, so
that there can be no "after-claps."
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT has now completed
its thirteenth volume. It was established on
the first day of June, 1872, and has been issued
twice every month from that day until the
present time. It has most certainly been a
blessing and help to the women of Zion, and has
also been the means, in many instances, of as-
sisting, indirectly, to proclaim the glad tid-
ings of salvation. The opinions, views and
sentiments of the women of Zion have been ex-
pressed to the world through its columns, and
their organizations well represented. It has
been the earnest and careful endeavor of those
engaged in the labors connected with this jour-
nal, to make it representative and reliable, as a
religious paper, and the greatest attention has
been given to keeping its pages free from any-
thing that would have the slightest tendency to
evil of any name or nature. It gives the oppor-
tunity for "Mormon" women to express their
feelings on any matter connected with woman's
work, and has been the promoter of literary cul-
ture, as can be proven, when we refer to the
crude articles from the pen of some of its con-
tributors, who to-day can express themselves in
the most able and eloquent manner, and whose
articles, graphically written, and possessing the
elements of literary strength, are attracting the
attention of all the Latter-day Saints. The
WOMAN'S EXPONENT does carry joy into many
a household, and the sisters, in their country
homes, many of them, testify that they look
forward to its coming as to the face of an old
and dear friend. Homely it may be, but genuine
in character and staunch in integrity to the Gos-
pel and its principles.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SENSIBLE TALK.

	A talk with wise judges and law-makers, and
he who kissed the lids of his mother's gilt edged 

[Column 2]

good old Bible. We will open and read on its
sacred pages and kiss the leaves within, where-
on is written and stamped, that God blessed
men and women who entered into the marriage
relation as the Latter-day Saints are practicing
it now. That divine law was given to the an-
cients by the great Law-Giver, who rules the
destinies of kings, presidents, potentates, and
the destinies of nations; who will turn and over-
turn all things to suit His own purposes; who
has power to set up kingdoms and overthrow
the mighty powers of the earth; and if the in-
habitants of the earth will not hear and listen to
the last message sent to them through prophets,
revelators and ministers who hold divine au-
thority to preach the everlasting Gospel to the
nations of the earth in this last dispensation of
the fulness of times, the great God will come
out of His hiding place and vex the nations with
a sore vexation. Already war and devastation
is stalking abroad in the land, and thunderings,
earthquakes, fire and vapors of smoke will arise
with a louder and more stupendous voice than
a man can utter, but their testimony will stand
and live forever, for their words are eternal
truths that cannot be altered.
	No man on earth can change the decree of the
true and living God, who has called upon all
mankind to repent of their sins and turn to
newness of life, and fill their bottles with new
wine and have oil in their lamps, which is the
Holy Ghost, "To lead them into all truth, show
them things past, present and to come," which
power, authority and knowledge is given to men
who are now persecuted, fined, imprisoned and
harassed for the word of God and the testimony
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It says in
sacred writ "that every word shall be established
by two or three witnesses." How much more,
then, will the testimony of thousands of Latter-
day Saints be established, who have reiterated
and declared that the kingdom of God is again
set up on the earth, no more to be thrown down
nor given to another people. That these things
of which we speak have been done by divine
command, by holy messengers who have been
seen and conversed with at different times.
God says in Isaiah "that he will do His work,
His strange work, and bring to pass His act,His
strange act, a marvelous work and a wonder,"
etc.
	I will quote from Psalms, as the language
shows God's power over all things: "The Lord
hath prepared His throne in all the heavens,
and His kingdom ruleth over all. Bless the
Lord, ye, His angels, that excel in strength,that
do his commandments, hearkening unto the
voice of his word.
	"Bless ye the Lord, all ye His hosts, ye minis-
ters of His that do his pleasure.
	"Bless the Lord, all his works in all places of
His domain; bless the Lord, O my soul!"
	The Latter-day Saints believe that God has
all power in heaven and on the earth; that He is
the same yesterday, to-day and forever; that He
will gather all things into one, both things in
heaven and on the earth, and that He has set
His hand again to accomplish His work, to
make an end of sin, and bring in a reign of
righteousness.
	If the President will turn to Romans, iv; 13,
and read—"That Abraham should be heir of the
world through the righteousness of faith." That
he is the heir, and cohabited with Hagar and
Sarah, and of these two wives had Ishmael and
Isaac, and God talked with Abraham face to
face. Did God accuse him of committing a
crime? No, indeed, but blessed his children of
both wives, and said to him, "I know him, that
he will command his children and his household
after him." So Jacob must have been command-
ed of his grandparent to marry plural wives, for
unto Jacob the promise was made, and he ac-

[Column 3]

knowledged unto Esau, "The children God hath
so graciously given thy servant," Genesis
xxxiii; 5.
	Do our law-makers think God will approve of
these unlawful proceedings, when it is most
natural and consistent to believe that God wil
choose a people that are willing and obedient, to
raise up seed to Abraham. How can these men
stand in the presence of the great patriarch and
the Savior of the world, who justified them and
said their seed should be as numerous as the
stars in the firmament? And Jacob was called
Israel became of his numerous posterity, and
the names of his twelve sons, making the
twelve tribes, should be written on the twelve
gates of the New Jerusalem. How can they
enter through those gates? John says there are
twelve angels there at the gates. When they
fine and imprison the very men and women
that God has commanded to practice this order 
of marriage, and says this is the only law of
marriage that He will acknowledge in time and
eternity; but eternal life is a free gift to all who
will obey His word and enter in at the door. If
we try to climb up any other way than that
which has been appointed by the Savior we shall
be accounted thieves and robbers. Will the au-
thorities of the land make the Latter-day Saints
climb into the kingdom of heaven as thieves
and robbers, when the good Shepherd has made
the straight and narrow way so plain "that a
poor way-faring man need not err though a
fool?" The cry of our enemies is, only two per
cent who practice plural marriage can be saved.
A President stands at the head of a nation, and
Abraham and his children stand at the head of
nations; for he that abideth a celestial law shall
have a celestial glory. There is no private inter-
pretation put upon Scripture. He says to all
follow me; I am the life and the light; keep my
commandments by your works or your faith is
dead.
	The God of heaven gave the ten command-
ments; He gave laws to the house of Israel; the
Savior gave commandments in the Gospel plan
of salvation to His servants to establish His
kingdom and save mankind, and He changed
them not. In the last times in which we live
He has given authority to men to establish it
for ever. The invitation is to all. "Go ye into
all the world and preach the Gospel to every
creature; he that believeth and is baptized, re-
penting and forsaking his sins, shall be saved,"
etc. Read last chapters of St. Matthew and
Mark. Read all Scripture and you can get a
correct understanding of the Gospel as our
Savior taught it when He was on the earth. We
must obey the law of the Gospel and its ordin-
ances, to be benefited in this life and the world
to come. Though the world spurn these things
they are verily true. The door into the kingdom
of God is baptism for the remission of sins. The
Savior says He entered in by the door, and the
porter must hold the keys of the holy Priest-
hood to open the door to believers. "For no
man taketh this honor to himself; he must be
called of God as was Aaron." By men taking
this honor to themselves, they have changed
the ordinances and broken the everlasting cove-
nant, and preached for hire and divined for
money; but what little good has been done in
the religious world, has been by the divine
teachings of our Savior, which should be em-
bodied in all things; but the time is now when
they are legislatured against us, and the cry is
"Great is the goddess Diana of the Ephesians."
And an inscription is raised to the unknown
God, and if we do not worship at these shrines
we must be imprisoned. We do not want to be
packed in their peck measures, nor deny the
sacred word which we revere. We do not want
our sons and daughters to become infidels by
swearing against a principle that is the very


foundation of Bible doctrine. The mothers of
these children have labored hard to teach them
that what is written in the Old and New Testa-
ment is true and will have a bearing on their
eternal destiny; and that they sprung from these
plural marriages away back to the Patriarchs,
and that they must not deny their original an-
cestry, but keep an eye to the mark; that they
must do the works of Abraham to become his
children; and according to the New Testament
he did the works of righteousness.
	Our motto is reform and regeneration, to cease
from all evil, lead pure and holy lives, that we
may be prepared to meet our Savior at His
second advent to the earth, for it reads, “This
same Jesus whom ye saw ascend up into heaven
shall in like manner descend from heaven;” and
He will come in the clouds of heaven, with all
the holy angels with Him, and every eye shall
see Him.
	Why cannot the Latter day Saints be left
alone to enjoy their mountain home, that they
have so diligently labored for, and left to read
their Bible and understand it as God is its inter-
preter.
	“Know this, that every man is free
	To choose his life, or what he’ll he;
	For this eternal truth is given,
	That God will force no man to heaven.

	He'll call, persuade, direct him right,
	Bless him with wisdom, love and light;
	In nameless ways be good and kind,
	But never force the human mind.”

	We pray that He may enlighten our minds,
enlarge our understandings, that we may learn
more fully of His ways and walk In His paths.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, April 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS OF THE MOMENT, WITH
SELECTIONS.

	How dreadful and depressing it is to any 
thinking mind to dwell, even for a moment, on
the battle field of nations, and the destruction
of human life in consequence, the mighty mass
of men sent into eternity, unknown and unre-
corded. Such is human passion, and such is
war! Yet the world has deified its great warriors
and starved its benefactors. What sort of pro-
portion is there between the benefit conferred by
the English nation upon the Duke of Marl-
borough in the victory of Blenheim, and that
bestowed upon England and the world by John
Milton in the gift of "Paradise Lost?" None at
all. The work done by the poet is so infinitely
superior to that accomplished by the warrior,
that a comparison can scarcely be rendered.
And yet the Parliament and Queen of Great
Britian bestowed upon the Duke,after the battle
of Blenheim,a royal diadem with royal revenues
besides devoting five hundred thousand pounds
sterling to build a palace fit for so great a warrior
to live In! While John Milton was obliged to
sell the copyright of his great poem for ten
pounds, and died comparatively unknown and
poor.
	By that great poem thousands of people have
been literally gaining a subsistence in England,
and making their fortunes, to say nothing of the
tens of thousands whose minds have been in-
vigorated and enlarged by feeding on it; while,
by the great victory, and the magnificent re-
ward of its revenues, that might have supported
thousands, have been devoted exclusively of
the luxury and splendor of a single family! This
grand residence bears the name of "Blenheim."
	H. T. K.


TRIED AS BY FIRE. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	I look around me daily and see the workings 
of wicked and designing men, who are striving


hard, but in vain, to overthrow the work of God.
How little do they understand what will result
from their present labors.  My heart bleeds for
them.  I do sincerely pity them, for they know
not what they do.  They are groping in utter
darkness, while we have the blessed light of
revelation, which is brighter than the sun at
noonday.
	Thus, looking at the trying picture, I feel to
wait patiently till the time of God arrives, when
all men shall have their just due.  We now can
appeal to only one more court on this earth for
justice, and if that right is refused us, which
God has given us—to worship God according to
the dictates of our own consciences—we can
then appeal to a higher court, where justice is
given to all men.
	Then woe to the nations of the earth! for
God has decreed its destruction, and His judg-
ment must come.  They cannot rule the courts
of heaven, therefore, they must, without doubt,
reap the reward of their labors; yet I do not
wish them harm.  No; I would to God they
could see the folly of their ways, and the final
result of their wretched doings.  They have
caused families to mourn and be left without
their leaders and protectors, left to protect them-
selves the best way they can.  But the families
that to day mourn the absence of those they hold
dearer than their own lives, are firm, and with
the aid of God Almighty, will bear it all, even
unto a most cruel death, for their holiest of re-
ligions, which was given personally from God to
man.
	Though being a member of the family of one
of those brethren that have been unlawfully
sent to that far off Detroit, I feel to acknowledge
the hand of Providence in all our circumstances.
Though bereft of our leader—through prayerful-
ness, and continually striving to follow his
teachings, in obeying the commands of God, we
find comfort in the loneliness we endure. Within
our home is a happiness that the world cannot
dream of.  They cannot comprehend the true,
honest love that exists in our happy home, as
we gather round our hearth and converse upon
the goodness of God, and His loving kindness
towards His people.  Could they but under-
stand they would at once say, There is a happy
home.  Look how cheerful the faces of those
women and children are; they are united in all
good.  How tidy and cleanly the rooms are!
There, on either side of the bright burning fire,
are the chairs of the mothers, which, when the
evening task is performed, are ready to receive
them.
	Each Sabbath finds them fasting and praying
for the Saints of God, for all those who are in
trying circumstances.  Thus, in our comfortable,
but not richly decorated home, we find ourselves
enjoying the comforting spirit of peace, and are
contented that the will of God be done, and the
beloved absent one be returned in His own due
time; while he, in his far away prison home, is
content with his lot until the Lord sees fit to
grant it otherwise, and feels to thank God that
prison doors have been closed upon him for
serving Him who is greater than all.
	Feeling that I have written enough, I desire
the blessing of heavenly comfort to abide in the
habitations of all the Saints.  I remain,
	A sister in the Gospel of truth,
	GRACE.
Omer, April 20th, 1885.


A QUESTION, OR WHY IS IT?
				------
   Why did our Savior teach His disciples to
pray, saying, "Our Father who art in heaven,
Hallowed be Thy name.  Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done in earth as it is heaven,” etc.
	Would He have taught them to pray for
this if it would never come to pass?  For He


certainly had a prophetic view of the future.
Now, if this is to be, how will it be brought
about? Is not Christ's sermon on the Mount
the first stepping stone? Those who apply
their minds strictly and faithfully in observ-
ance of its mandates, will always find a happy,
peaceful spirit attending their efforts; also a
feeling of charity, a light and intelligence
which they did not perceive before, called the
good Spirit.
	This good Spirit will expand the mind and
enlarge the soul, if cultivated and exercised, as
it certainly will be by applying our minds to
learn this one, and great lesson. It is
such an important lesson that we cannot ad-
vance to any perfection without it; as also its
spirit attending our efforts.
	This sermon has had some attention given it
by the churches—just enough to hold society
together. But this will not be sufficient in our
day. Do you ask why? Because the day is
far spent, and the time is at hand when the
Bridegroom is coming to reign on the earth.
He has sent a message to this effect. We, as
a people, have received it. Those, who in the
sincerity of heart, believe in the Gospel of
Jesus Christ, are benefited by its precious
truths, and do realize that every word which
He has spoken is true and faithful. There
were some who followed because of the loaves
and fishes. They are doing the same to-day.
But such have not much depth of root, and
when the heat of the sun is felt they wither.
	Let us be faithful in learning this important
lesson, as also those given for this dispensation;
remembering, though heaven and earth pass
away, not one word which He (the Savior) has
spoken, shall fail.
	M. E. KIMBALL.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	ALMO, CASSIA CO., IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Thinking that a few lines from Almo would
not be out of place, we take pleasure in writing
you.
	Our Relief Society is trying to do the best
it can under the circumstances, owing to our
much scattered condition. Some having to
come from two to four miles to meeting, we
thought it advisable not to hold our meetings
through the winter season; but since warm
weather has come we hold our meetings regular.
We have twenty-four members enrolled. The
average attendance is about fifteen. We enjoy
a good spirit, and all seem willing to do their
part the best they can. We hold our testi-
mony meetings once in two weeks, and our
working meetings once a month.
	We are all young and inexperienced, but
we don't feel to be behind in working for the
cause of truth. The EXPONENT is an ever
welcome visitor to us, and we read it with in-
terest.
	We have had a very mild winter, and the
health of the people, in general, is good, for
which we feel very thankful.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we
are, respectfully,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARY A. WAKE, Prest.,
		MARGARET E. WARD, Sec.

	MEADOWVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	For two years the Relief Society of this
place have not been holding meetings, having
no poor to attend to, until September 28th,
1884, Prest. Julia Lindsay, with other sisters
and brethren, also Bishop J. Kimball and
Counselors met with the members of the So-
ciety and advised them to resume their meet-
ings, since which time we have held meetings


monthly, on fast day, at two p.m. The Society
is presided over by Sister Ann M. Eldredge,
who is a good, faithful, energetic woman, and I
believe we fully appreciate the privilege of
living in this "out of the way place," and being
"nobody in particular.”
 We enjoy much of the Spirit of the Lord in
our meetings, and pray the Lord to bless those
of our brethren and sisters who are being per-
secuted for righteousness' sake, and hasten the
time when Zion shall be free.
  Wishing every success to your welcome little
paper we remain with you in all good works.
SECRETARY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES FROM RIVERDALE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Permit me, through the columns of your
paper, to say a few words about the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of
Riverdale. Our Association is in a prosper-
ous condition. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, and of late have had a very good at-
tendance.
	Our president, Sister Maria Russell, with
her counselors, Sisters Nancy Bybee and Lu-
cinda Bingham, attend their meetings very
regularly, and take a great interest in the wel-
fare of the young ladies, and do all in their
power to make the meetings instructive and
interesting. Owing to the day school being in
seesion during the week, we are deprived of
having the school house to meet in, and hence
we are obliged to meet at some private resi-
dence. The exercises of our meetings consist
of select readings, essays, songs, lectures and
speeches; we also have one of the first princi-
ples of the Gospel given to us for a subject; we
prepare ourselves to speak upon this subject
for the next meeting,
	We have a very good list of teachers in our
Association, who visit the ward monthly, thus
doing much good toward bringing the sisters
out to meeting.
	At our last meeting the President spoke to
some extent to the mothers, as there were quite
a number present, showing them the necessity
of urging their daughters to attend their meet-
ings regularly, and also said that the mothers
should meet with their daughters and speak to
them and encourage them in the work that
they were engaged in.
	Let me urge all my young sisters to attend
faithfully to all their duties and meetings, for
we can plainly see that they are productive of
much good, and the Spirit of the Lord will
dwell in richer abundance with us if we will
unite one with another in doing all the good
that we can in trying to roll on this great
work, and strive to carry out the good instruc-
tions that we hear from time to time.
	At the Young Ladies' Conference, held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Friday March 13th,
there were a great many good instructions giv-
en and a good spirit prevailed. Some of the
instructions were brought to our meeting for
the benefit of those who were not able to at-
tend the conference.
	Hoping that you will reserve space in your
paper for these few lines, I am,
	Yours Respectfully,
		ELIZA W. CHILD.
Riverdale, Weber Co., March 25th, 1885.


SANPETE PRIMARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On our late visit to the Primaries of this—
Sanpete Stake of Zion—we found the children
progressing very satisfactorily; indeed it seems
as if it would be impossible for such as those
we met with to do otherwise; blest as they are
by being born of parents who serve the Lord,


and shielded as they are from contaminating
vices of the world, taught no false doctrines,
but taught true principles, to keep the laws of
God, and yet with enough evil around to make
an unmistakable contrast to good; and with
such facilites as they have for learning, in
schools and associations, blest with healthy
bodies and pure minds, we naturally look for
no small results from such a combination of
causes.
	We found the sisters in charge of laboring
assiduously to improve the hearts and intellects
of the little folks. There is a notable im-
provement in the selection of their exercises,
and we were often touched to tears during the
rendition of them. Children but three years
old took part in the programme in a way that 
drew tears of gratitude, to the Giver of all
good gifts, from the eyes of the older ones.
	Presidents Peterson and Maiben encouraged
us with their presence and kind words, as also
a number of the bishops.
	The Primary Associations take a pride in
adding their mite to help build the Temple at
Manti. We were shown a counterpane, which
had been  bought at the Temple store, of which
the owner was justly proud. It was under-
stood to have been donated by one of the P.
A. of this stake, At Fountain Green Sister
Collard, the Prest., told me that the P. A. of 
that place, last harvest, turned out enmasse and 
gleaned wheat enough to buy the cotton; each
able girl member patched a block exactly the
same size and pattern. The blocks were then
joined and beautifully bordered with a deep,
heavy fringe.
	Of the nineteen Associations of this stake
fifteen have held  fairs, several of them two or
three. These fairs, besides their industrial ad-
vancements, are also of some financial benefit,
as they enable the Primaries to supply them-
selves with the necessary books, help build the
Temple, and in some instances we are informed
they have donated to the Deseret Hospital.
The dear little souls are so anxious to do, that
if they are only led and directed with love and
care they will ultimately be men and women
of faith, virtue and integrity, making the
world better wherever they go.
	We were received with the most cordial wel-
comes wherever we went, and enjoyed our
visit with our little friends, as well as with the
older brethren and sisters with whom we met.
We were favored with having our much es-
teemed and beloved sister, Mary A. P. Hyde,
join us at Spring City and accompany us to
Mt. Pleasant, Fairview and back. A severe
snow storm prevented us from visiting Indian-
ola Primary, which we regretted exceedingly.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	HELENA MADSEN,
	LUCY BERGLAND.


[Column 1]

PRIMARY ANNUAL MEETING.

	The Primary anniversary meeting of the
20th Ward convened in the school house on
April the 24th, 1885. Present on the stand:
President Emma Toone, Sisters H. T. King,
M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, E. S. Taylor and
Dr. Ferguson. Of the brethren, Counselor
Dunbar, George A. Romney and Wm. Willes.
Bro. Lewis is the oldest man in the ward, and
it was his eighty-seventh birthday.
	Meeting opened by singing, "Never too late."
Prayer by George Romney Jun. Singing
"Haste to the Primary." Organist, Miss
Savage. Minutes of the last meeting read
and accepted. Then followed songs and reci-
tations by twenty-five of the boys and girls; all
were good, but I must especially name a very
little lady—Kate Romney—her manners and
appearance were sweet, and her organ solo was
beautifully rendered; her time excellent. There
were others I would like to speak of especially,
but indeed all were good, and the order and

[Column 2]

good manners of the children did ample credit
to their President and her assistants. Their
labor must have been great and unsleeping.
	After the children were through with their
programme Sister Toone said she could only
give two or three minutes to each speaker as
the time was so advanced. She then called on
Bro. Dunbar, who said he was glad to be pres-
ent, that he had admired the order of the
children, and in the name of the parents he
felt to express his feelings of satisfaction to
Sister Toone for all that he had seen and
heard.
	Bro. Romney said he had attended all the
meetings, and he saw a great improvement in
the children from time to time, and great merit
was due Sister Toone; he wished the parents to
send their children all the time, and not only
at the anniversary; and he thanked Sister
Toone in his own name aud in behalf of the
parents.
	Bro. Savage gave a riddle: What were we
all doing at the same time?—(Getting older.)
Called on the children to pray for long life to
Sister Toone. This Association was a prepara-
tion for the upper room. Felt the Spirit of
God was present, and desired the children to
carry home the influence they felt here.
	Bro. Richards had attended every meeting.
"Children, remember all you have heard here
this afternoon." Proposed a vote of apprecia-
tion to Sister Toone, which was unanimously
responded to.
	Bro. Lewis asked the choicest blessings on
Sister Toone.
	Sister Horne had been highly edified this
afternoon; the children would do well to apply
the essays and recitations that had been given.
She was present when the society was first
formed, and she was impressed to name Sister
Toone as its president. Would have liked to
have seen the boys brought forward. Endorsed
the recitation of a little boy—"Give the boys
a chance." Wanted them to pray for Sister
Toone.
	Sister Taylor was delighted with all she had
heard and seen; everything had been of a re-
fined and elevated caste. "Pray for Sister
Toone."
	Sister B. W. Smith was glad to see so many
more children than formerly. "Children, you
have been well instructed, and bless and pray
for your teachers and your President.
	Sister Ferguson: "You good boys and girls,
I have been delighted with you all this after-
noon; I see you are so much improved. The 
last days are truly upon us, and much devolves
upon men and women. I hope you will all re-
member that essay read here on faith, and ap-
ply it to yourselves, each one; I hope you will
have it when you need it."
	Sister Clarke felt enough had been said, but
she was delighted with all she had heard and
seen.
	Meeting was then adjourned for one year.
Singing, "Hope of Israel." Bro. Geo. Romney
Jun. spoke a few words, and closed the meet-
ing by a benediction.	H. T. K.


﻿PRIMARY, EAST BOUNTIFUL 

EDITOR EXPONENT:		
	I thought I would write a few lines to our
much esteemed paper,so that the other Primary
Associations may have the opportunity of
knowing how we are getting along in East
Bountiful.
	We held our sixth annual meeting April
18th, 1885, in the Tabernacle.  There were
present one hundred and seventy-five children,
and quite a number of their parents, and of
course that was very encouraging to those who
preside.  We had a very good programme, con-
sisting  of  songs,  dialogues,  questions and
answers from the cards.  One dialogue,  by
seven little girls, the title  “When we are


women,” was very good indeed; and one by
eighteen boys and fifteen girls, entitled, "How
to build up a new Territory,” was also excel-
lent, and a good spirit prevailed.
	President of Primary, Sister Porter, and sis-
ter Randall were present from Centreville, also
Sister Howard and Counselors from the Hot 
Springs—Primary Assistants.  All spoke very
encouragingly to the little ones; also Sister 
Holt, President of the Young Ladies’ of East
Bountiful, talked to the children very kindly.
At the close of the meeting the children were
made glad with oranges and candy.  All went
away with smiling faces.
	At Christmas we had a good time.  We had
two trees with quite a lot of nice and useful
presents upon them.  We had recitations,songs
and solos; our programme was short, but good.
After the children had received their presents
from the tree Brother Thurgood’s store keeper
brought over to each child a sack of candy;
one hundred and sixty present, also Brother
Anson V. Call, from the co-op, brought the
children—each of the large boys very nice
whistles, the small boys a smaller kind of
whistle and some candy.  To each of the large
girls was given a very nice breastpin, to the
smaller ones a string of beads. These, were 
given on New Year’s day, and were much ap-
preciated by the children.
	We feel to say God bless the children of
Zion, for we see and know there are noble
spirits among the children of the Latter-day
Saints, and we trust our labors will not be in
vain and we feel assured they will not, for 
there will be a mighty host rise up among
them that will stand true to the cause of the
Most High.
	ANN DUSTIN, President,
	SARAH L. DAVIS, Secretay.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A lady in Boston has submitted to the mayor
the plan of a novel charity, toward starting
which she proposes to contribute $50,000. It
is to create a fund, the income of which shall
be used annually for the care of the teeth of
children in the Primary schools whose parents
are unable to pay dentists' bills.—Ex.
	Mrs. Robert E. Lee was the only child of
George Washington Parke Curtis, who was
the only son and heir of Martha Washington.
It was from George and Martha Washington
that Curtis obtained Arlington, which at the
opening of the war was one of the finest pieces
of country property in the South. It is de-
scribed as "the ideal Southern homestead."—
Ex.
	The Dowager Lady Airlie was returned at
the head of the poll, recently, as a member of
the Lintrathen School Board. This is, I be-
lieve, the first instance of a lady of rank
having aspired to such a position. It affords,
however, an example which a good many other
dowagers, who are not as a rule overburdened
with work, might follow with great advantage.
—Ex.

	The exhibition of Decorative Art work at
Young Bro's on Main St., which commenced
on May 12th, and has been continued since up
to the present, is something wonderful in the
way of ornamentation, and requiring less na-
tural ingenuity; it would seem,than embroidery
done by hand. Everything, large or small,
can be executed on the Domestic machine, on
satin, silk, plush, felt, canvas, etc, with
chenile, arrasene, crewels, embroidery silk,
tinsel, applique, mosaic and etching. Crowds
of people were attracted every day to see the
handsome and elaborate display of embroidered
goods, and to watch those who were engaged
in running the machines, doing all sorts of
fancy ornamental work of different varieties
and patterns with the people looking over in
wonder and amazement. Surely this is some-
thing under the sun.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Mount Carmel, Kane County, Utah, on the
morning of May 1st, 1885, Brittanna E. Mage Jolley,
supposed to be born in the year 1814, in Pitt County, N.
C.; married to Henry B. M. Jolley October 31st, 1833, in
Weakly County, Tennessee. Moved to Illinois in the
year 1842; was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in the year 1842; arrived in the
Valley of Salt Lake 1852. Was the mother of ten
children, seven sons and three daughters, and two sons
dead; grandmother to thirty-eight living and five dead
grandchildren; was great-grandmother to thirty-one
living children and three dead, making a grand total of
one hundred and nine children. Was a faithful member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
esteemed and loved by all her friends.
	R. M. ENGELSTEAD.
Mount Carmel, May 4th, 1885.

	DIED, at her residence, in Vermillion, Severe County,
Utah, on the 13th of March, 1885, of heart disease,Anna
Maria Berg Dastrup, aged sixty-five years. Sister
Dastrup was born on the 22nd of January, 1820, in
Welsbek, Clesvig; came to Syalland, Denmark in June,
1828; was married to H. L. Dastrup October 16th, 1841.
She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1853. Was baptized by Elder H. I. Lund.
Came to St. Louis on the 9th of March, 1856, and started
for Utah July 3rd,1859, and arrived In Salt Lake City in
Dec., the same year.
	Sister Dastrup was a good Latter-day Saint, and a
faithful worker in the Relief Society, having been secre-
tary for several years. She was living in the celestial
order of marriage, and died in full faith of a glorious
resurrection.
	She leaves a husband,one son and eight grandchildren
and many friends to mourn her loss.
		REBECCA NEBEKER, President,
		VIOLET IVIE, Secretary.
	DIED, at Smithfield, Cache County, Utah, March 26th,
1885, Maria F. Smith. She was born October 13th,
1822, in the State of Florida. Was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1849.
Emigrated to Utah the following year.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Saint, true to
every principle of her religion, prompt in the discharge
of every duty. She has gone to reap the reward of the
righteous, and though we now mourn her loss, we know
it is her gain, and we who are left live in the hopes of a
glorious meeting at the resurrection morn.
	COM.


A QUESTION.

	SNOWVILLE, Utah, May 4th, 1885.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Can any of your readers or contributors tell me how
to kill green bugs on plants? They first come on daisies
then went from them to pinks. They do not trouble
geraniums nor violets, though side by side. Tobacco
water seems to be of no avail; the plants die if not kept
down. Also is there any remedy for fleas? If some of
your contributors would answer the above queries they
would greatly oblige,

	E. BALLAM.


SPECIAL NOTICE.
	In order to accomodate a number of persons who
desire to join my Obstetric Class, but cannot commence
in May, I have concluded not to start my Class until
later; when due notice will be given.

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
	Will commence a class in her office on May 1, 1885
a term consists of ten weeks.  Two lectures every day,
Saturdays excepted.
Tuition a Term, $10.00.	Books, $13.00.
	Dr. Shipp will remain in the city, and can be found at
her office and residence, 66 S. First West Street.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
				Z.C.M.I
			SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
		IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
			Dry Goods,Notions,Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS;
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
	We carry a larger and more, complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
	AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
	MRS. B. P. MUSSER,

Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Sprint and Summer Goods
 AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS,
CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to:
	Address, DAVID JAMES,Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

