VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1884.	No. 4.


TO FRIENDS AT HOME.

I am alone to-night—
			My tent is snug and home-like, and
The moon shines sweetly in the little
Window facing toward the east,
And oft I wonder if 'tis aught like
Abraham's tent we read of in his wanderings.
'Tis pitched near by an ancient ruin,
And I have gathered relics of the sleeping
Past, which wakens thought, and pictures
Pass before me, which I would that I could
Paint for you.

		Is this the land where Christ came to
"His sheep which were not of this fold—"
Here where the sign was given of His
Royal birth, and that dread sign of
Darkness which foretold His death
And suffering upon the cross,
Here where He taught His people the
Pure principles of heaven, and blessed
The three that they might tarry here
On earth until He came again?
But it is not of this that I would speak
To-night; let the past rest until the time
When earth and seas shall render up
Their hidden treasures, when sleeping
Dust shall rise and break the silence
Of the tomb.

		It is of you, dear friends, that I
Would speak to-night; yes, I had letters
Come from home to-day, and other tokens,
Too, of love and friendship from the
Dear ones there.

		And now you seem to come before me as
I saw you last, ere starting on my
Wanderings; my heart is full to-night,
And fervent is the prayer that God
Will bless and keep you safe
Until we meet again.
My past has been as bright as friendship
Pure could make it; its power has
Made the silver lining to the
Clouds that rose.

				Here in this far off land it
Seems I now begin another page in life.
What will the record be?
I know not, but I pray the God,
Whose power I've felt through all
The past, will guide me still;
I stand upon the ashes of the past
And long to know its history;
Around me is a people He has
Said shall be redeemed, restored,
And made "white and delightsome."
They've fallen low, but His all powerful
Arm can lift them up.
Oh, when will man learn what dead
Sea fruits grow on sin's blighting tree,
Learn wisdom from its record in the past,
And shun its fearful power.
There's work to do for all,
And none need be at ease in Zion,
For our God's Saints must help
Redeem, restore and build again
Her places made so desolate.
But lo, time onward flies;
It rears the midnight hour as
Here I sit and ponder, thinking,
Thinking, until thoughts run wild;
There is so much within the past,
The present and the future, to arouse
The sleeping senses and to stir the
Soul even into its depths,
But I must say good night—
Think of me in your gatherings,
Where so often I have mingled with
You, and those glad, social hours
My heart can ne'er forget, nor
Bear to be forgotten.
									S. E. R.


[Column 1]
THE MORAL LAW AND LIBERTY.

	I believe that that state or nation which in
its legislation conforms most strictly to the mor-
al law laid down by the Creator Himself will
be most blest and most prosperous. No
member of a Congress, no member of a legis-
lature of a state has a moral right to enact laws
in the teeth of the Divine law. We, as a peo-
ple, declare unto the world that the order of
plural marriage is a divine law, given unto this
generation for the exaltation and elevation of
the human family; that the Lord, the mighty
ruler of the heavens and earth, with His Son
Jesus Christ, came down from heaven and re-
vealed Himself unto Joseph Smith and con-
ferred upon him the Holy Priesthood, with the
power thereof to seal on earth and it should be
sealed in heaven, and to establish his King-
dom on the earth again for the last time, to
restore all the blessings that were enjoyed by
the saints in ancient times, and we bear testi-
mony that the power and gifts of the Holy
Ghost are enjoyed by those who obey the law
with an honest heart, that we know that these
things are true and that we are governed by,
the regulations and laws which governed the
people of God in ancient times. Then how
dare men enact laws in the teeth of the "di-
vine law;" it is more than a moral law, it is a
command of God, a divine law, that a holy and
pure seed maybe raised unto the Lord of Hosts.
He has said, "For if I will, saith the Lord of
Hosts, raise up seed unto me, I will command
my people." He has commanded His people,
and they have obeyed the law, and He will
protect His people in their obedience:
	It is true according to the Scriptures that
darkness covers the earth and gross darkness
the minds of the people, when men of talent
and sound judgment on other subjects should
be so blind to reason when they undertake to
solve the Mormon problem. How they can
confound the present state of immorality extant
upon the earth with the holy order of marriage
as instituted by our Heavenly Father, passes
all comprehension.
	Senator Brown says, "he can see no differ-
ence between our system of marriage and the
prostitution of the New England States." At
the same time he says, "Under the Mormon
system the husband is married to a plurality of
wives, he cohabits with them all as his wives,
and they are generally prolific of offspring.
According to the law of his church he believes
his offspring are legal and it is his duty to care
for and support them all alike. The mother of
each is regarded as his legal wife, and each of
the children as his son or daughter. The fam-
ily is sustained and kept together according to
the old patriarchal usage. The people are an
industrious, laborious people; they are a thrifty
people. No beggars or tramps are found in the
streets. Pauperism is but little known in the
Territory. What they call adultery or the co-
habitation by a Mormon husband with a wom-
an to whom he is not married, according to the
church rites, is regarded as a great crime; and
I believe it is generally admitted that prior to
the settlement of Gentiles among them neither
prostitution nor houses of ill-fame were known
to any extent in the Territory." And yet he
sees no difference between such a people and
the pictures he draws of the condition of the
States. According to his estimation, New
York has 12,000 prostitutes, thousands of ille-

[Column 2]
gitimate children are born without the protec
tion of a father, and in most instances both
mother and child are discarded and cast into
the streets to make a living as best they can,
and sink into destruction both body and soul;
while the man is retained in society, can vote,
hold office, and may dictate in the nation or
bear rule; and such men are sent out here to
play "Paul Pry," and invade the sacred
precincts of the home circle and drag women
before a jury to testify against their husbands,
their lawful protectors. Such men, and only
such, would stoop to drag young ladies from
their homes and immure them in prison for
having the moral courage to maintain the
right of free will, to refuse to answer questions
they have no right to ask, no woman can be
compelled to testify against her husband, and
I hope the Almighty Father will give our sis-
ters strength to maintain their integrity to the
rights of freedom, the right of free thought,
the right of conscience to worship God accord-
ing to our convictions of right, to keep sacred
the home tie, the confidence that exists between
husband and wife. It is the heighth of oppres-
sion to he compelled to submit to such inva-
sions of our inherent rights, and we protest
against it most emphatically.
	Every organized Territory should have the
right that the early Revolutionary Fathers
claimed of Great Britain and bled to obtain—
that is, of making its own laws and being rep-
resented in the general assembly as as a confeder
ate power, being represented by men of our
own choice, bona fide residents of the Terri-
tory, men that understand the circumstances
of the people, that have known the struggles
and hardships the people have endured to
make the territory what it is to-day. The Con-
gress of the United States has no business
with the domestic relations of Utah. The na-
tions of the earth stand and look aghast and
with wonder at the farce being enacted on the
American continent, an inquisition on foot to
compel loyal citizens to convict themselves of
crime.
	O Liberty! A sound once delightful to
every American ear! Now fallen and tram-
pled under foot, is it possible that such things
exist in this the nineteenth century, in the
once proud land of freedom, a land of enlight-
ened statesmen, of advanced education?  Is it
true that the sons and daughters of monarchy
can hold in derision and laugh to scorn the
boasted institutions of liberty that has caused the
best blood of the age to be spilt? Oh, cannot
the latent spark that still lingers in the hearts
of some be brought to bear to save the nation
from utter destruction? Yes. The Lord God
of heaven will come out of His hiding place
ere long, and destroy wickedness and rule in
the councils of men, to dispense equity and
justice to a down-trodden people, and save the
Constitution from shame and ruin, raise the
Flag of Liberty to its pristine beauty and glory
and vindicate a loyal people from the false
charge of treason.
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, June 15th, 1884.


Minutes of the Ladies' Conference in Salt
Lake, Weber and Utah Stakes also several
other notices of ladies' meetings are laid over
for lack of space; however these notices will
appear in due course of time.


26	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A DAY--DREAM.

IN TWO PARTS.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

PART FIRST.

	Dear me; how it does snow! It has been
snowing or raining for the past three weeks;
there is no going out, for the roads are almost
as bottomless as the frightful pit that my pious
old grandma used to tell me I should go into
if I was not a good girl. There was some con-
solation in it being bottomless, for in my long
journey through it, I might perchance grasp at
some crevice and emerge into the land of
chance, that I used to read of; where I might
be changed into a beautiful bird at any min-
ute. As for carrying an umbrella—who ever
heard of that useful article being at home when
it was most needed?
	I am tired of work, so I will sit down and
read. There now, I am seated in my easy
chair before the fire! How comfortable! The
world is not so bad after all. I am so sleepy.
How curious those coals look. They are—
what fantastic shapes they take! Why—I
thought I was sitting in my easy chair watch-
ing the pretty pictures formed by the bright
coals, but I find myself climbing a mountain.
I am at its summit. What a pretty valley! The
sun is casting its first rays on the beautiful or-
chards and vineyards. I will walk down and
see who lives here and what the people are
like. The people must be very industrious, for
they are stirring already, and it is only five
o'clock. There is a group of children coming,
I suppose they are out taking the benefit of
this fine morning breeze.
	Good morning, young ladies. I see you are
out enjoying the morning air, which will keep
the roses on your cheeks. "The cool air is
very nice, ma'am, but we are going on to the
mountains to gather wild flowers. To-day our
Primary Conference meets; we are expecting
visitors, and wish some sweet flowers to deck
the stand." What do you learn at your Pri-
maries? "We are told to love the Lord and
keep His commandments; obey our parents,
and to be kind and courteous to every one.
Please excuse us now, for we want to gather our
posies before breakfast." Away they run, mak-
ing the hills echo with their merry laughter. I
see the people are not wealthy, but how neat
and clean everything looks. They are musical
for I have already heard several organs this
morning.
	This cool breeze gives me an appetite; I will
inquire of this young woman where I can find
a restaurant. "Excuse me, but will you be so
kind as to direct me to a restaurant?" "We
have none, madam." "Indeed, that is strange!
You have them in Salt Lake." "Oh, yes,
ma'am, and all the rest of the issues of outside
civilization, such as saloons, billiard rooms and
houses of ill-fame, introduced by the would-be-
reformers of our people. Although I have no-
thing against restaurants, they are very con-
venient for travelers." "How is a person to
get refreshments in a place like this?" "You
can go to the Bishop's, ma'am, or any of our
people will accommodate you, if they are able.
Good morning."
	This is what these Mormons call "outside
civilization," saloons, billiard rooms and houses
of ill-fame. This puts a new face on things.
I suppose I must fast this morning, for I am
determined to see further.
	Here is a pretty place, I suppose it must be
the Bishop's. There's a beautifhl lawn; frag-
rant flowers are dotted here and there, outlined
by shrubs and ferns of various hues and
shades, seeming to vie in their efforts for beau-
ty and colors their more refined and delicate
neighbors, the posies. In the centre of the

[Column 2]
lawn a fountain is sending forth its silvery
spray dancing in the sunbeams. Directly op-
posite the fountain, in the back ground, stands
a white cottage, moderate in its dimensions, and
having a neat, home-like appearance. The
beauteous rose, the sweet-scented honey suckle
and jessamine entwining themselves around the
windows and scattering their branches over a
miniature balcony illuminated by the refulgent
rays of the sun, forming a picture worthy of an
artist's pencil. I must enter this house and see
what these people are like. As I walk up the
clean gravelled walk leading from the gate to
the house, I wonder if the inmates in their char-
acter assimilate with their surroundings. I
open the door, pass through the hall to the par-
lor or sitting room. The floor is nicely cov-
ered with a green and red carpet; a few choice
scenic oil paintings and several portraits of cel-
ebrated men form a prominent feature of the
room. An organ stands open as if some one
had just left it. There is such a soft, musical
air in the room, that I fancy I can hear the
flute-like notes of the pretty warbler. There
is a library filled with histories and a choice se-
lection of other literature. I cast my eyes to
the portraits and—yes; they are the portraits of
the principal men of the Mormon Church. A
large table stands in the centre of the room,
covered with a cloth to match the carpet, well
supplied with the current literature of the day.
There is a cosy fire and an easy chair close
by, as if the master of the house had just left.
Pretty nick nacks here and there, of home pro-
duction, indicate the taste and economy of the
mistress of the house.
	The door leading to the dining room is part-
ly open; there the family are assembled for
breakfast. I will take a peep in. An exten-
sion table stands in the centre covered with a
snowy cloth and shining dishes. No tea or
coffee, but rich, new milk, and bright spark-
ling water. The bread is white and spongy,
and the butter looks as if made from buttercups
and daisies. There is also a dish of honey
glistening like amber in the sunlight. The
odor of those beefsteaks makes one feel ready
to accept an invitation to breakfast, but as I
am in cog. I cannot expect one. A handsome
man of forty sits with an open book in his
hand. Several children are there. They sit
very orderly, yet with bright, happy faces, as
if they were not afraid of pa. A tall, fine boy
of fifteen years, the counterpart of the gentle-
man, sits by the side of a fair girl of fourteen.
Between the young people and the smaller
children sit two good looking women. The
younger a blonde, and singularly like the
young girl; while the other, a brunette with
black eyes and raven locks, plainly told her
to be the mother of the eldest boy. These are
the wives of this man and the mother of these
children. See those love-lit eyes beaming on
their children, and from them to their hus-
band, not only a look of love, but of confi-
dence. The one man on earth to lead and
guide them through life. Are the women de-
graded slaves, and coerced by a task master?
Are they neglected and their heart strings torn
asunder by the infidelity of their husband? Do
they fear that some courtesan will be benefited
by his means and share his favors? Are these
children cruelly treated, neglected by their
parents, allowed to wander in the streets, to
drink, to smoke, to profane the name of Deity,
and to associate with the wicked and corrupt?
We shall see. Are they ill looking or de-
formed? Look at their sweet faces and comely
forms and answer. List ! for father reads: "If
they call the master of the house Beelzebub,
how much more shall they call them of his
household? If they have have persecuted me.
they will also persecute you. You see, my dear
children, our Lord was persecuted, He was
charged with being a wine-bibber and a friend
of publicans and sinners, and of casting out

[Column 3]
devils by the power of Beelzebub, the prince
of devils. If our Savior, the purest being that
ever lived, was persecuted and spoken evil of,
how can we expect any better treatment from
the world if we follow in His foststeps? Now
we will have a word of prayer." They all
kneel. Holy and Eternal Father. Thou who
dwellest in the heavens and holds the destiny
of men in Thy hands, we, a few of Thy child-
ren, bow before Thee this morning. We thank
Thee, Father, for life, for health, for the Gos-
pel that has been restored to men, for the rev-
elations of Thy Holy Spirit and for the assur-
ance that we are Thy children. Forgive us of
our sins, we beseech Thee. Holy Father, we
ask Thee to bless us as a family, that peace
and unity may be in our midst; that we may
be kind and obliging to our friends and neigh-
bors. We ask Thee for charity, that we may
forgive each other, even as we hope to be for-
given by Thee. Preserve our children from
evil, that they may grow to be wise and virtu-
ous men and women. We humbly ask Thee,
Father, to bless Thy servants whom Thou hast
placed at the head of Thy Church. Give un-
to them great wisdom aud understanding, that
they may direct and counsel Thy people in a
way that will be pleasing in Thy sight. Bless
our enemies if they will turn from the error of
their ways and serve Thee; if they will not, let
them be caught in the snares they have set for
Thy people. Into Thy hands we commend
ourselves, our children, and our substance: do
with us as Thou wilt, and Thou shalt have the
glory, through Jesus Christ, Thy beloved Son.
Amen. Now for breakfast, take your seats,
children. Eliza, pass your plate for a piece of
this juicy steak. Katie, I think your bread
good enough for a member of Congress." Ka-
tie, the younger wife, looks up with a flash of
her bright blue eye. "Do not talk to me of the
members of Congress, Edward, I am perfectly
disgusted with them." "Now, Katie, do not be
too hard on them; pass your plate for this
steak, it will give you more charity for the ben-
efactors of our country." Said Eliza, the eld-
er, "Benefactors of our country! I like that,
Edward, only I fail to see the point. I am
just as indignant as Katie. Just think
of placing the business and property of our
church in the hands of fourteen trustees, chos-
en from the ranks of our enemies: It is per-
fectly absurd. Mr. Hoar must be a fit subject
for an insane asylum." I noticed that the two
elder children listened very attentively to the
conversation.

To be Continued.


We received a very pleasant call the other
day from two of Whittier’s cousins, inmates of
the same home at Oak Knoll. They were very
pleasant ladies, genial in conversation and well
pleased with the city. They remained over
Sunday and attended service in the taberna-
cle.
	Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colorado
Springs, the famous "H. H." of the Century
Magazine and the New York Independent, and
the author of several excellent books, we very
much regret has had the misfortune to break
her ankle recently; we were in hopes of having
her soon here in Salt Lake again.

	In Bishop Simpson, woman suffrage loses a
firm and consistent friend. Only a few
months before his death, he wrote: "I have for
more than thirty years believed that the great
interests of morality imperatively require that
the ballot should be placed in the hands of
woman. I have no doubt that the coming
years will see the triumph of your cause, and
that our higher civilization and morality will
rejoice in the work which enlightened woman
will accomplish."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 27


[Column 1]
HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

And, as the outer sir's cool breath
Revives, restores the heated brain
Wearied amid gay fashion's throng,
	So, to Virginia's soul so tried
There came a hope, some glimpse to gain
	Of knowledge heretofore denied.

Alone, as when she knelt in prayer,
She sought the place. A few had met,
Some grave and earnest as herself,
	Some skeptical, that thinly wore
Guise of respect, and others yet
	Were curious idlers, nothing more.

Were men like these, in raiment so
Unclerical to worldly eyes,
Commissioned bearers of the plan
	The world had lost—e'en God's own word?
To the discerning came the prize
	Through e'en the simplest sentence heard.

As from their lips the lesson fell
Like sep'rate links of one great chain,
FAITH parted wide the folding veil,
	And eyes that had been blind saw clear;
REPENTANCE swept away the vain
	Props of the past and drew them near

BABTISMAL waters. Like a flood
The HOLY SPIRIT filled each frame
With living, leaping, certain joy;
	The testimony and the light
Still other, farther truths to claim
	From the eternal source of light.

"I will hedge up thy way." How plain
Her past life's pathway now appeared!
Henceforth, those trials recognized
	As guards forbidding her to stray
On either side, because endeared
	To memory with hope's bright ray.

Not the Virginia who went out,
Returned beneath her kinsman's roof,
And as antipathies are swift
	To recognize each, though undisguised,
They guessed the truth, and keen reproof
	Mingled with plans that they advised.

Swift, as though on infectious wings,
Her strange conversion spread abroad;
Her kindred, mortified, refused
	To meet or hear those who had led
Her steps on strange, uncertain ground,
	A sect "of whom no good was said."

Anew Virginia turned to work,
Hope lighted now the passing days,
For her a goal was e'en in view,
	And when the still, long evenings came
She joined where lesson, prayer and praise
	Brought all in one in His dear name.

"The resurrection and the life,"
And the "baptism for the dead,"
Brought her a sense of joy and peace
	Her life before had ever missed;
And dreaming o'er the dear boy, dead,
	Again, in faith, his face she kissed.

Yet ever shadows follow light,
'Round ev'ry life since life began,
And oft it pained, surprised her, that
	Meeting old friends of former days
Approaching, just discern her, then
	Swiftly veer off the other way.

Perhaps you've met the same yourself;
Ah, well, Virginia knew the cost—
To bear an ill name for His sake,
	And yet, there came to her at last
A peril that she dared, and crossed—
	The torrent that before her passed.

*		*		*		*		*

For many days his watchful eyes
Had scanned her face, and studied well
Her loneliness and loss of friends;
	He knew the stigma on her name,
"A Mormon girl." Nought else to tell
	Against, the whiteness of her fame.

"Virginia, you've no need to work
In this slave fashion day by day,

[Column 2]
Your fingers are too dainty fine,
	Your face is far too gently fair
To bend from sight in such a way,
	And richer robes this form might wear.

"Give me the keeping of your fate,
Trust me to shelter all your life;
Fate has been cruel to us both;
	Yours shall be only silken bands,
And though I cannot call you "wife,"
	I am the slave of your commands."

"Then leave me!" pale Virginia spake—
Is human love the curse of earth,
And must we meet it everywhere?	
	The lovely wither in its flame—
Denied to those who prize its worth,
	While daring lips profane its name.

"Virginia, listen to me, then
Refuse me if I fail to prove
You have no other friend but me;
	I can uproot the ties you hold
In ev'ry path where you may move,
	For I have name, and power, and gold."

"And I am more than these, to you,
And I deny the gift you crave.
I have another Friend, nor fear
	Your name and power, and spurn your gold—
Your bands lead to the charnel grave,
	Your touch a serpents, poison, cold!"

"You feign to scorn divided claims
Of man's strong love, and yet you'll bind
Your fate in an impostor's snare;
	In temples cold, in zealot's thrall—
Or here, in silken bower, you'll find
	'Tis love! 'tis nature! rules them all."

He looked through eyes all blurred with sin,
But she, amid these murky scenes,
Saw the clear truth shine bright, afar,
	And answered him all calmly, then:
"Sir, nature makes men libertines,
	But wisdom makes them noblemen."

"Now, little saint, come ponder well;
The empty world and this bright nest
Lie in the scales. Make me your foe
	And soon, your futile pride o'erthrown,
And denied shelter, friendship, rest,
	Return at last to be my own.

" 'For might makes right,' and he who dares
Is he who wins; 'tis just this way;
Woman was made for man, the world
	Is full, and I will have my share;
Perhaps as gift, perhaps as prey—
	Small difference so the prize be fair.

"Look you abroad. The fields are full
Of human flowers, men pluck their choice.
If I do not, another will.
	If I elect where you shall bloom
Then who shall answer to the voice
	Within your gilded cage, my room?"

How many, 'neath such argument
Have felt their moral courage fail.
And when with mocking courtesy
	(So sure all seemed) he oped the door,
He little dreamed she would prevail
	And he would never meet her more.


[Column 1]
ITEMS FROM JOHNSON.

JOHNSON, Kane Co., Utah, June 6th, 1884.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Perhaps a word from this far off corner of
Utah would not come amiss. We are having
most pleasant weather just now, all nature is
clothed in her beautiful verdant costume, the
effect of many recent rains that we have been
blessed with, for it is really a blessing, and we
all appreciate it as such. The health of the
saints is good, only a few colds to complain of.
Our Relief Society and Primary are doing
well, all alive and awake to their duties, and
are striving to keep the commandments of God
and the Word of Wisdom is observed general-
ly. We see clearly the signs of the times are
approaching that were talked of long ago, and
one feels to say, could it not be postponed a

[Column 2]
little longer, for we have dear friends who have
not had the privilege of hearing the sweet
sound of the Gospel. I so much wish they
could, but Father knows best, and I would say,
Thy will be done.
	I see our enemies are still at work; another
sister imprisoned for her religion here in this
free land of America; well, their cup will soon
be full to overflowing; they cannot go only so
far, just as far as the Lord will let them, and
no farther.
	I hope Mrs. Belva Lockwood will make a
visit to Utah and become acquainted with the
people she has so ably defended, she is a fine,
gifted lady; I spent an evening with her while
I was at Washington, I do not think her equal
can be found for intelligence, wisdom and wit,
she deserves the praise and prayers of the
saints.
	I must not be too lengthy, I wish to say a
few words about our reunion of the Johnson
family. The first of June each year we
celebrate, it being the day the Gospel was re-
ceived by the eldest son, Joel H. Johnson, be-
ing now 53 years since he was baptised into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
as the first came on Sunday, all met on Satur-
day and passed the day in boat-riding, swing-
ing, shooting at marks and plays of various
kinds, with the young folks; the elder ones
chatting, telling their experience, and attend-
ing their grandchildren, who are not a few.
Dinner was served at 3 p.m. when 22 were
seated. All our children and grandchildren
were not here, 20 being absent; all was pleas-
ant and jovial. Dinner over plays were re-
sumed until evening, then came songs and mu-
sic, which filled the air with sweet sounds until
a late hour. Sunday, June 1st, ushered in
beautiful and pleasant, with the prattle of the
little ones making us think that we were a
happy family and these the fruit of our poster-
ity, and ever praying the Lord to bless them,
that they may grow up useful men and wom-
en in His Kingdom. At 10 o'clock all went to
Sunday School, our little school house was well
filled. At 2 p.m. meeting was called, the
house was packed; the usual opening exercises.
Our eldest son, Bishop W. D. Johnson; gave
an excellent discourse, mostly to the young;
exhorted them to be obedient to those placed
in authority over them, and to prepare them-
selves for missions at home and abroad, and
lead useful, honest and truthful lives, and be-
come men and women of honor in the King-
dom of God. Others followed with similar re-
marks. The remainder of the day was spent
in singing and music by several members of
the family; dinner was served at half past four,
when 34 were seated to a bountiful repast,
their countenances lighted up with smiles,
while wit and humor, with an occasional
graphic story of the past experience of the el-
der ones, caused the little ones to laugh heart-
ily. There were present 64 of the Johnsons
and those connected with the family. The
young folks took a ramble over the mountains,
came back loaded with beautiful flowers, many
much prettier than those raised in our gardens,
the evening was spent in singing and music.
	Monday morning all repaired to their homes
at Randall, feeling satisfied with the joyful
event, hoping to meet again next year, and to
be joined by more of the family.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, which is always a welcome visitor to me
and mine.
		Your sister, in the Gospel,
					JANE C. JOHNSON.


The ladies' regular semi-monthlymeeting was
held in the Social Hall, Saturday afternoon,
July 12, as the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms are undergoing repairs.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 15, 1884.


LADIES, GO AND VOTE.

	In view of the August election which is now
drawing near, we wish to remind the ladies of
Utah who are entitled to vote, that the Primary
meetings in the several precincts will convene
July 21; and it is their privilege to attend and
take part in the proceedings. It is a mistaken idea
that these meetings are of little significance,
they are at the foundation of the elections.
The choice of delegates to the convention, even
if it is only a county affair, is an important mat-
ter, and one that women are as much interest-
ed in as men, for they are expected to be amen-
able to laws and pay taxes and contribute to the
general good, and are therefore a part of the
body politic and should deport themselves ac-
cordingly.
	It is the sacred duty of every woman who has
the right of suffrage to go to the polls on election
day and deposit her ballot, for every vote adds
strength as well as numbers to the People's Par
ty. Every person should consider the vote he
or she casts as though it was the one to turn the
scale in favor of the man or men to be elected.
It is not only the public duty, but it is an indi-
vidual responsibility and one that no one can
perform for his friend or neighbor, but must be
done in person.
	If all realized the importance of attending to
this personal duty there would be a much hea-
vier vote cast than is usual among this people;
and assuredly there has been sufficient opposi-
tion to wake up those whose rights are at stake,
and put them "on their mettle," otherwise are
they not in danger of being subjected to the rul-
ing of wicked and designing men, who would
take from them every vestige of freedom; if they
are not awake to maintaining their own rights.


[Column 1]
THE TOPIC OF THE DAY.

	The two great leading parties of the nation,
the Republicans and the Democrats, have each
met in a national convention at Chicago, on sep-
arate occasions, to place in nomination the name
of the man who should be decided upon as the
choice of the respective party to be elected to
the most important office in the gift of the peo-
ple of these United States. Delegates repre-
senting every State and Territory were present,
and some of them made silvery and eloquent
speeches, glorifying the American nation and
extolling the candidate of their choice. After a
great deal of eloquence and enthusiasm in favor
of several candidates had been expressed in the
ablest and best manner possible upon such a
momentous question, the Republicans succeed-
ed in placing in nomination James G. Blaine, of
Maine, President, the man whom Ingersoll des-

[Column 2]
ignated, "the white plumed knight" and John
A. Logan, of Illinois, Vice-President. These
two men are the men to be voted for by the Re-
publicans at the Presidential election in Novem-
ber. Mr. Blaine is probably as good a man and
as suitable to fill the Presidential chair, perhaps
more so, than any other; but his record in that
important office is yet unwritten. It is impos-
sible to tell what any man may do in new and
ntried fields.
	The Democrats have finally, after a great deal
of wavering, come to the conclusion that as Tild-
en refuses to allow his name to appear Grover
Cleveland, of New York, is the man next best
calculated to promote the advancement of the
country under democratic rule, and have there
fore placed him in nomination as President,
with Thomas A. Hendricks, of Indiana, as Vice-
President.
	And these nominations were made mid shouts
and cheers and ringing applause, waving of flags
and fans, swinging of hats, and tumultuous ex-
ultation. Ladies, it is said, manifested quite as
much enthusiasm as men, and contributed
largely to the waving and cheering. Soon the
Presidential campaign work will begin in good
earnest, and each party will exert itself to the
utmost to influence the votes that are to elect
one or the other of these eminent champions.
	The contest has scarcely begun, for each party
is equally anxious to win the day, and from now
until the November election no pains or means
will be spared in the effort for success.
	There is likely to be a pretty equal divisions
judging by appearances, for both candidates are
very popular men and have shown marked abil-
ity in the field of statesmanship, and are there-
fore justly entitled to distinctive favor with the
people. It very often happens, however, that
men who have figured conspicuously and mani-
fested unusal talent in high places have made
but a poor showing when actually holding the
reins of power. Human nature is weak and in-
vested with almost absolute control, as it were,
in elevated positions men have frequently yielded
to the love of display, or some over bearing
pride of place and forgotten the people whose
interests were entrusted largely to their care
and whom they have sworn to serve and whose
confidence exalted them to the office of trust
and gave them the opportunity to shine.
	America is unlike any other nation; and there
is therefore no positive criterion to judge by, but
empires and kingdoms, great and rich, have
dwindled into insignificance and lost the balance
of power when they neglected to do justice to
their subjects, and when America, the land of
liberty, oppresses her citizens and brings into
servile subjection a portion of its territory for
obeying the voice of conscience, no man can tell
what the direful result may be.
	The Presidential boom that has begun may
turn the tide of national affairs in a new direc-
tion, and men interested in the general good
may forget poor, insignificant Utah, and thus
the child who has only received scoffs and
sneers, and never been the recipient of favors,
may have an opportunity to recover from the
scathing blow inflicted by the passage of the
Edmunds bill, and ere another Congress shall
convene it is sincerely to be hoped the folly of
passing unconstitutional laws may become so
glaringly apparent that such measures may fall
of any substantial support in the halls of Con-
gress, where the banner of liberty waves before
the eyes of all the world.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MISS BELLE E. ANDERSON, of this city, re-
turned from the East June 26, a graduate from
Ann Arbor in the medical profession. She has

[Column 2]
been diligently pursuing this study there for
three years, and having had excellent opportu-
nities under the training and tuition of her fa-
ther previously, it is to be presumed that she
commences practice with a thorough knowledge
of her work, lacking only practical experience,
which she will gain in the profession. Her abil-
ity can scarcely be questioned for she is a young
woman of superior attainments, and loves the
work she has voluntarily chosen. Her father’s
popularity as a physician and surgeon of many
years standing, no doubt will give the young
lady prestige, while her own beautiful face, her
splendid physique and courteous manner are
points not to be overlooked in one who visits the
sick room to alleviate suffering and minister to
the distressed. We welcome Miss Anderson
home, and bespeak for her a wide field of useful-
ness in her professional career.
	Utah may well be proud of her women phys-
icians, these earnest, faithful workers deserve
the patronage of the people. Once it was con-
sidered unwomanly to practice medicine, and
so men were called to attend delicate, feeble
women, under any and all circumstances; but
how much more fitting it seems for women to
nurse and treat their own sex in the time of sor-
est need or in the most painful extremity.

	ELDER JOHN Q. CANNON, who has been ab-
sent on a mission to Europe nearly three years,
returned on the 24th of June, accompanied by
his wife, Annie W. Cannon, whose letters of
travel have been published in the EXPONENT,
and have been very interesting, as we have
had abundant evidence from our readers. Both
Bro. and Sister Cannon are pleased to return
home, they have had a pleasant journey and ar-
rived in health and safety. A party of relatives
and friends in a special car met them in Ogden,
and there was a warm greeting and happy meet-
ing. Bro. Cannon has resumed the journalistic
labors on the Deseret News, in which he was
engaged before going on his mission, and when
Sister Cannon is rested after the fatigue of trav-
eling she will continue to favor us with reminis-
cences of her journeyings abroad. She was
much pleased with the Swiss and German sis-
ters, and very anxious to have them gather out
and come to Zion, that they may share in the
privileges and blessings that are so freely given
to the saints in this land.

	ON Saturday, July 12th, at 12 a.m., Dr. Ellis
B. Shipp’s class underwent their final examina-
tion before entering upon the practice of obstet-
rics. The examination was made by Doctors
Heber John Richards, Wm. Bowers and Mil-
ford B. Shipp. The names of the students were
Hannah Burnham and Mary C. Shipp, Draper,
Mary Swindle, Monroe, Esther Hunsaker, Hon-
eyville, A. J. Tippets, Cecelia Neilson, Caroline
Hanson, Lizzie Evans, Ellen Stark, Brigham
City, Caroline Ipson, Mantua, Hannah Ander-
son, Bear River City. The Doctors expressed
themselves well pleased with the way in which
the students acquitted themselves. Refresh-
ments, ice cream, fruit, etc., were afterwards
served to all. Some other ladies were invited
to be present and participate in the entertain-
ment. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp and the Editor of the EXPONENT were
among the number. Dr. Shipp will commence
another class on the 10th of October, and will
be pleased to receive students, feeling, deeply
the necessity there is for more competent help
in this profession.

	NELLIE WHITE, the brave and fearless young
lady sent to the peni tentiary for contempt in
refusing to answer what she considered improp-
er questions, is now at liberty and for the time
allowed to remain with her mother and family.


The Grand Jury were discharged, Judge Hunt-
er removed and the court adjourned, and conse-
quently there was no excuse for keeping her any
longer in "durance vile." During her imprison-
ment she was not allowed the privileges that
Belle Harris had while she was there for the
same cause; viz.: contempt. Nellie White was
taken from home while engaged in teaching
school, and has lost her position, another lady
having taken her place, she is thrown out of
employment, her health is impaired and she
has no means at present of gaining a livelihood.
This is the noble revenge the courts take upon
innocent, unoffending young women to gratify a
whim and preserve the dignity of the law.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT. 29


[Column 1]
OUT IN THE COUNTRY.

	SATURDAY morning, June 28th, we left the
city by an early train for Evanston. Arriving
at Echo, we were joined by Prest. W. W. Cluff
and Sisters M. J. Atwood and Ruth Pack, who
accompanied us to our destination at Evanston,
where we met with the Relief Society in the af-
ternoon, Sister Mary Whittle presiding. We
were most hospitably entertained at the resi-
dence of Bro. and Sister Deloney.
	Sunday morning rode to Almy and met with
the Sunday School, heard the classes go through
their exercises and afterwards spoke to them a
few minutes by invitation of the Superinten-
dent, Bro. Adin Brown. The school was very
orderly and the children seemed to be intelli-
gent and appreciative. Evidently they have
had excellent discipline.
	The afternoon meeting was addressed by Pres.
W. W. Cluff; the sermon was a rather practical
one, but specially adapted to the circumstances
of the people.
	In the evening we mot with the Relief Socie-
ty, Mrs. Martha Woodhouse presiding. Re-
marks were made by the President, her Coun-
selors, Sisters Marian Russell, and Catherine
Beveridge, also Sisters Atwood and Pack, and
we occupied a short time. We then repaired to
the residence of Bro. and Sister Beveridge,
where we were warmly welcomed and remained
over night. Arrangements were made with the
Bishop, James Bowns, at his house, where we
dined Sunday after meeting, to organize a Pri-
mary, and on Monday morning, June 30, we
had the pleasure of organizing the Association
in Almy Ward. The meeting was opened by
singing, "Children, do you love each other?"
Prayer by Bro. James Hood. Singing, "Songs
of the heart." After instructions to the parents
as well as the children on the benefit of these
organizations and the good results to be obtained
from them, the following officers were unani
mously sustained:
	Mrs. Sarah Horsley, President; Mrs. Martha
Alston and Miss Maggie Russell, Counselors;
Miss Jemima Russell, Secretary; and Miss Jea-
nette Beveridge, Assistant Secretary; Master
Frank Burton, Treasurer. 40 children were
voted in and their names enrolled as members of
the Association.
	Sister Bruce drove us in her carriage to Evan-
ston, where we dined and then took the mid-
day train for Echo. At that place we had to
wait several hours for the Park City train, mean-
time resting at Sister Lucy Stevenson's,a charm-
ing country home, and such magnificent groves
with their shady nooks, and verdant meadows
in the background. It seemed altogether the
very place for one wearied with excitement,
noise and bustle to spend a few days in the heat
of the summer, and the hostess is one of the
most motherly and kind, with a soothing voice
and genial manners. Late in the afternoon we
took train for Coalville, where we had a very
interesting time with old friends.

[Column 2]
	Tuesday, at 2 o'clock p.m., we met with the
Relief Society in the meetimg house, Mrs. Sar-
ah Wilde presiding. The house was well filled;
Bishop Salmon and several other brethren were
in the audience. There were several sisters from
adjoining settlements who had come quite a
distance to attend.
	The principal subject of the local sisters was a
County Fair, which is being arranged for and
will be held at Coalville sometime early in Au-
gust. They have a vary able and efficient com-
mittee of ladies, Mrs. Aon Cluff, Mrs. Jessie
Boydeu, ard Mrs. Isabella Hodson, associated
with the presiding sisters of the Stake. The
sisters are making every exertion possible, mak-
ing articles, useful and ornamental, that will
sell to raise means to purchase the glass for the
Stake House. The Primary Associations seem
as much interested as the Relief Society or
Young Ladies'. It is certainly commendable in
these ladies to undertake such an affair, and
time is little doubt of its success, for whatever
these organizations have ever undertaken by
united effort they have gloriously achieved.


[Column 1]
﻿INTERESTING CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake of Zion, held in
the tabernacle, Saturday, June 21st, 1884, Sister
S. Herrick presiding. Opened by singing, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet;" Prayer of-
fered by Prest. L. W. Shurtliff; Singing, "Hail
to the brightness of Zion's glad morning;" after
which the minutes of the previous Conference
were read and accepted.
	Prest. S. Herrick then made a few very ap-
propriate remarks, in which she expressed her
thankfulness for the many blessings we enjoy.
She closed her remarks by invoking the Spirit of
the Lord to rest upon all during the Confer-
ence.
	Sister Stanford reported the Third Ward Ass.
Sister M. A. Riley reported the Second Ward,
Sister E. N. Hill reported the First Ward.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith next addressed the
congregation. She exhorted the young ladies to
improve in temporal things as well as in spirit-
ual things. Recommended the study of gov-
ernment and to become acquainted with the pol-
itics of other nations. "The young ladies have
lain the proper foundation, and it is my desire
that they continue in well doing. Each lady
has an important part to act, and has to form
her own character and make herself just what
she wishes to be; by yielding to the influence
from above or the one from beneath; by listen-
ing to the promptings of the Holy Spirit, our
names will be held in loving remembrance, but
if they take the contrary course they die and
are forgotten. I entreat of you young women
to seek for your husbands men of God, men who
are worthy of you, men who will sacrifice all to
do their duty, that you may raise up a right-
eous posterity that will become mighty and that
will know God in their youth. Woman is to
hold a higher and a nobler position than ever
held by her before, and she requires a noble
husband--not one that is inferior to her." Gave
many more valuable instructions and closed by
beseeching God to bless the youth of Zion; that
they may become as precious stones and shine
brilliantly in the courts of God.
	Bro. Thos. Wallace endorsed the remarks of
the previous speakers, and gave much good in-
struction urged the young to seek for knowl-
edge.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m.; Singing; Bene-
diction by Bishop Thos. Wallace.
	Afternoon. After the usual opening exercises
Sister Smith said there was some business to be

[Column 2]
transacted, which she would attend to. Sister
Emily S. Richards and Josephine R. West of-
fered their resignations as Counselors to Prest.
Sarah Herrick, therefore creating two vacancies,
which were filled by Sister R. E. Monch being
chosen as First Counselor, and Sister E. Y.
Stanford as Second Counselor. This nomination
was unanimously sustained. The Secretary
read the resignation of Sister Josephine R.
West:

OGDEN CITY, June 21st, 1884.

To the President and Members of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
the Weber Stake of Zion.
	Dear Sisters, owing to the many increasing
and anxious duties which devolve upon me as
Presiden of the Primary Associations of the
Weber Stake, which are now twenty-one in
number, I feel it my duty to tender to you my
resignation of the office of Second Counselor to
your President, Sister Sarah Herrick. I have
been sensible for some time past that with the
multiplied cares of home and the increasing
labors and responsibilities of the Primaries, I
have been quite unable to bestow that service
and consideration upon the duties of this posi-
tion that the great and growing cause of the Im-
provement Associations demanded.
	I am quite confident that another can be
found who, by reason of greater leisure and su-
perior ability than that possessed by me, can
render more efficient service and better promote
the welfare of the Societies than I have done in
the past or am capable of doing in the future.
	I shall ever pray that your efforts in the good
work may be attended with the blessings of our
Heavenly Father and the teachings of His Holy
Spirit. I am still your sister in the love of the
Gospel.

JOSEPHINE RICHARDS WEST.

	Sister Monch then presented Sister Emily
S Richards with a handsome Autograph Al-
bum, in behalf of the young ladies, wherein all
the Presidents of the Associations had writ-
ten, also Sister E R. S. Smith, and she was
also presented with a large Photogragh Album,
containing the portraits of the Presidents, and
then read the following Resolutions of Respect
to Sister E. S. Richards upon her leaving this
city:

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO MRS. EMILY S.
RICHARDS.

	Whereas, It becomes our duty to part with
and accept the resignation of our esteemed
friend, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, as First Coun-
lor to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Weber Stake of Zion, which position she so long
held and so faithfully filled, thereby winning
the confidence of, those over whom she presid-
ed, as well as her co-laborers in this cause; and
	Whereas, There can be nothing more beauti-
ful than the love and union which she ever cher-
ished among the daughters of Zion, establishing
thereby pure friendship, we feel that her re-
tirement from office presents a suitable oppor-
tunity for expressing the esteem in which we
hold her; therefore,
	Resolved, That we tender our sister our heart
felt thanks for the zeal she ever manifested in
the discharge of her duties; the wise counsel,
through the aid of our Heavenly Father, she
was ever enabled to impart; the charity she has
shown to the poor by freely administering to
their wants the things which heaven so gra-
ciously bestowed upon her. And although we
regret the necessity which occasions her retire-
ment from office,
	We feel that her field of usefulness, in her
new home, will yet become larger, strengthened
by the experience thus gained, and her desires
to foster and nourish mutual improvement will


[Column 1]
increase until her labors on this earth are ended,
and she can indeed exclaim, "I have fought a
good fight; I have finished my course; I have
kept the faith: henceforth there is laid up for me
a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the
righteous judge, shall give me at that day."
	We, therefore, invoke the blessings of God
upon her and her household, and pray that the
same kind spirit may ever guide her in her new
home that so kindly hovered over her here.
	Resolved, That the above resolutions be pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a
copy of the same be presented to Mrs. Rich-
ards.
				SARAH A. HERRICK,
				MARY A. RILEY,
				ELIZABETH Y. RICHARDS,
				RUTHINDA A. MONCH.
					LINES.

	Dedicated to Mrs. Emily S. Richards, on the occas-
sion of her resignation as First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Y. L, M. I. A. of the Weber Stake of Zion,
by Ruthinda E. Monch.

Think not the good that you have done,
The gentle deeds of mercy shown
	Shall all forgotten be.
No, no, dear sister, you will find
The footprints you have left behind
	Will stand eternally.

The sacred lessons you have giv'n;
Directing thoughts to God and heaven,
	Time never will erase;
For they are carved in memory here,
And their good fruits will yet appear
	As buds, your life to grace.

The widow and the motherless,
The sick, the cold, the fatherless,
	The weary and distressed,
That you have fed, and warmed, and clothed,
The aching hearts that you have soothed,
	And by your kindness blessed,

Will raise their prayers to God above
To shield you by His arm of love
	And guide you ever more
In paths of virtue, joy and peace;
In wisdom's ways your life ne'er cease,
	In gifts for you in store.

Their prayers will stand on record there
As pure as alabaster fair,
	A credit to your name.
And in due time they will shine forth
As priceless jewls of far more worth
	Than worldly pomp or fame.

Such deeds are gems of purest ray,
That ne'er grow dim nor pass away,
	Where they are kept for thee
As treasures in the bank above,
Secure and safe they're locked in love,
	And Father holds the key.

	After which Sister Minnie J. Snow, of Brig-
ham city, occupied the time. She took much
pleasure in laboring with the girls. We must
cultivate and control our feelings; we can with-
out much difficulty master our actions, but it re-
quires a greater effort to control our feelings.
The young people are the hope of Zion, and mo-
thers should instruct their daughters in the
principles of the Gospel.
	Sisters E. S. Richards and Josie R. West said
they had the kindest feelings towards all, and
expressed their thanks for the kindness shown
them while laboridg with the Central Board,
and prayed for the prosperity of the associations
everywhere.
	Sisters Shurtliff and Monch each made some
very well chosen remarks; exhorting those pres-
ent to live up to the instructions given.
	Sisters E. Y. Stanford and J. S. Richards fol-
lowed with much more good counsel to the
young, and advised them to live for the eternal
world, and not hold be fast to the perishable
things of this world.
	Prest. Shurtliff appreciated the good advice
that had been given, which, if lived up to

[Column 2]
will lead us to the presence of our Lord and Sa-
vior.
	Slater Smith advised a meeting to be held
once a month for the officers, that they might
counsel together and better prepare themselves
to preside over these associations.
	Prest. Herrick bore her testimony to the truth
of what had been said, when conference ad-
journed for three months, and closed by singing
"Come let ns anew our journey pursue." Clos-
ing prayer by Bro. L. F. Munch
				EMILY J. NEWMAN,
					Secretary pro. tem.


30	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAMILY MEETING

	From Sister Harriet Hunsaker, of Honeyville,
we have heard the part'culars of a very pleasant
party, which convened at the residence of Sister
Catherine Beckstead, senior, of South Jordan,
on Monday, July 7th, to celebrate the anniver-
sary of her birth, which took place 77 years ago
in Canada. The party consisted almost entirely
of the aged lady's own immediate family; four
daughters met on that occasion who had been
separated for several years. The Bishop of the
ward and his wife were present, also Sister Ann
Holt, President of the Relief Society of South
Jordan. Among the guests sixteen great grand
children were present, and those were not
all the great grand children of the ven-
erable lady, who was the surprised recipi-
ent of the honors of the day. Over seventy
sat down to supper, and one can better imagine
than describe the joy and pleasure of the happy
meeting.
	Sister Beckstead has been the mother of fif-
teen children, ten are still living, and many
grand children as well as great grand children.
She has been a widow more than fourteen years.
Sister Beckstead was a "Mormon" in an early
day, and traveled up to Missouri about 1837;
shared in the persecutions in Caldwell and De
Witt Counties, afterwards came to Illinois, left
Nauvoo in 1846 and journeyed with the Saints
to Winter Quarters. Her eldest son, Gordon,
was a member of the famous Mormon Battalion,
Sister Beckstead came with her husband and
family to Utah in 1849, and settled in North
Canyon, afterwards moved to what was then
known as the Jordan, and subsequenty called
South Jordan. The aged lady is held in very
high esteem by all who are acquainted with her.
and her many friends will no doubt join with
her children and relatives in wishing her con-
tinued health, happiness and prosperity. Such
family reunions seem to strengthen the chords
of love and unity which bind together friends
and families, and make life more desirable and
enjoyable.


INDEPENDENCE DAY.

BY A CHILD TWELVE YEARS OLD.

	The Fourth of July, or Independence Day. I
wonder how many of us know the meaning of
this day. It is the day that our forefathers de-
clared their independence from the mother
country. And we find by reading the Declara-
tion of Independence, how the people of Ameri-
ca were tyranized over by the king of Great
Britain. He would keep among them in times
of peace standing armies without the consent of
their legislature, and would deprive them, in
many cases, of the benefit of trial by jury. He
would have them taken over the sea to be tried
for pretended offenses, and he would also sus-
pend their own legislature, and claimed that he
had the right of making their laws, just as Gov-
ernor Murray would like to treat our legislature.
 So I would advise all my brothers and sisters to


become acquainted with the Constitution of our
country, which was framed by good men.
	That we may always be true to our country as
American born citizens, is the desire of your sis-
ter in the Primary Association.
							AGGIE LEWIS.
	Written for the "Primary Star," Spanish
Fork, June 28th., 1884.


﻿A VISIT TO GRANTSVILLE.

	In company with Sisters E. R. S. Smith and
M. P. Young, I had the pleasure of visiting the
women's organizations of Tooele Stake, at
Grantsville.
	President Mrs. M. A. Hunter was, as usual,
full of kindness and love. In her company
Mrs. Young and myself attended a very large
and interesting meeting of the teachers of the
Relief Society, held at the residence of Mrs.
Wrathall, who gave us a whole-souled wel-
come, which made our visit exceedingly pleas-
ant.
	Next morning we went to the "Hall" to in-
spect the elegant and useful articles made by
the little hands of the members of the Primary
Association. To make mention of all the ar
ticles worthy of notice would be impossible
they were all a great credit to the little ones
Miss Eva Despain had babies' socks on view
she washed, carded, spun, colored and knit
them from lamb's wool. A number of little
girls made a handsome quilt, procured the wool
and calico, made the batts, patched and put
them together, quilted, bound and finished in
just as good work and taste as if done by their
mothers. Ornamental cardboard work by
Miss Lottie Hales, aged 12, and Miss Viola
Wooley, aged 8, was very beautiful. An al-
most unique antimacasser by Miss A. E. But-
ler, aged 10, and one by Alice A. Millward
gives quite a new idea of fancy work- I no-
ticed very pretty knit wool trimming by Viola
Despain, 12 years, as a very useful ornament
for skirts; also embroidered necktie and collar
by A. M. Wooley.
	I am almost puzzled what to say about the
whole affair, all were so well done and so cred-
itable, I will mention card baskets made of
spool cotton and cardboard, each medallion
forming a frame for a pretty picture, which
displayed excellent taste, and were very beauti-
ful. I will just mention a few names that de-
serve notice. A pretty bead basket by Minnie
Samuelson; Joan Judel a pair of wool pitchers;
a cushion in raised wool work by Sarah Rich;
other fancy work and useful articles by Viola
Clarke, A. Mc.Bride, M. J. Mc.Bride, H. E.
Andersen, P. Hale, A. L. Durfee, M. A. Wat
son, Gracie Hale, A. Judd, Katie and Hettie
Hale, were exceedingly well done as displaying
taste and industry. A little girl found some
glass goblets with the stands broken off; she
made the rough places smooth by rubbing on a
stone, then got colored wool and crocheted
handsome covers for them with tassels on the
bottom, put in clay and then planted ivy in one,
a pretty creeper in another, and they were then
used in lieu of hanging baskets, and make a
very pretty and handsome ornament for sitting
room or parlor.
	There was also a pretty good showing from
the little boys, but not as large as we would
have wished to have seen; there was a good,
bridle made by a boy 8 years of age, J. H.
Hale, real strong and well braided, also a set
of gardening implements by Franklin Han-
sen, aged 7, out of wood with his pocket knife,
consisting of shovel, spade, pick, ax, adze, mal-
let, fork, etc., and a good sample of early peas
by Chester Rydalch.
	There was a great variety of dresses, aprons
shirts, etc., made by hand and machine sew-
ing, that would have done credit to ladies
much older; indeed, all the work was surpris-


ng, considering all the manufacturers were un-
der 14 years of age.
	The contributions from the Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association were very
fine and elegant; a vase of water lilies in wax,
also large bouquets of wax and wool flowers,
embroidered slippers, several specimens of hair
work, etc., etc., were all beautiful, of course; a
magnificent Japanese quilt and dozens of other
articles for use and ornament graced the walls
of the building, which were handsomely decor-
ated for the occasion.
	The whole fair was creditable to all who con-
tributed either time, talent or means.
	Our Relief Society, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary meetings were well attended. The mem-
bers of each seem willing and determined to
serve God and keep the counsels they receive
through the Priesthood from Him. President
Gowan attended all the assemblies and spoke as
being satisfied with the work the women were
doing in the different organizations.
	Bro. Gowan's Counselors, Bros. Andersen
and Lee, with many other brethren, addressed
the large congregation. We had a pleasant and
happy visit.							E. H.


31	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RICHMOND PRIMARY.

	Minutes of the Fifth Annual meeting of the
Richmond Primary Association, held June
2nd, 1884, President Mary Allsop presiding;
singing, "Little Children should love Jesus;"
prayer by Joseph R. Thompson, aged thirteen;
singing, We all have a work to do." Minutes
of last annual meeting read and accepted, also
the yearly report. The exercises consisted of
songs, recitations and dialogues rendered by
the children, which they did with great credit.
	Sister Jane E. Molen, Stake President, met
with us and gave good instructions. Short ad-
dresses were made by Sister Williams, Presi-
dent of the Smithfield Primary, Bishop Wm.
S. Skidmore, Sister Myra Merrill, President of
the Relief Society, and Sister Hannah T.
Brower.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Singing,
"Always Cheerful." Benediction by the child-
ren in concert.
	Statistical report of the Primary Associa-
tion, beginning June 1st, 1883, and ending
June 1st. 1884:
	Number of meetings held, 44; Number of
members enrolled, 195; Average attendance,
95; Cash remaining in treasury from previous
year, $1.72; Cash received from members dur-
ing the year, $5.08; Cash received from Pri-
mary entertainment, $56.00; Total, $62.80; Dis-
bursements, Paid to the new meeting house,
$50.00; Expenses for Primary entertainment,
$1.25; Paid to Emigration Fund, $5.00; Paid
for cards, $4.70; for papers, $0.60; Total, $61.55;
Property on hand, $5.00; Cash on hand, $1.25.
				MARY A. TRAVELLER,
							Secretary.

LINES COMPOSED BY HANNAH T. BROWN FOR THE
ANNUAL MEETING.

All hail, this day, the First of June,
	Which gave a prophet birth;
Among the noblest ol God’s sons;
	His name shall ne’er have dearth.

The name, oh, yes, of Brigham Young
	Yet in our hearts shall live,
In memory of the wise advice
	He to the saints did give.

Our Primary was organized
	Upon this natal day.
On which we meet to celebrate
	It with harmonious lay.

Then welcome to the First of June,
	Young brothers and sisters dear,
And may we meet from time to time
	With many a happy cheer.


May union join us heart and hand,
	And may we live to see
Yet many celebrations,
	And then have our Jubilee.


PRIMARY REPORT.

MARICOPA CO., ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our Primary was organized May 8th, 1883,
Sister Louisa Harper, President; Sister Letitia
E. Jones and Louellia Patterson, Counsel-
ors.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks. Our
President is doing all she can to encourage the
children to attend their meetings. We have
testimony, and also sewing meetings. The
children all take great delight in reading, re-
citing, bearing their testimony, etc. They also
take an interest in this great and glorious work,
and we feel very thankful to our Heavenly
Father that He has permitted us to live in this
day and age of the world, that we might grow
up to be honored mothers in Zion, and do a
great and mighty work in the Kingdom of God,
and to know and comprehend the work that
has to be done on earth.
	This is a small branch, but there are quite a
few children to attend the Primary. We are
improving rapidly. There are twenty-one
names enrolled as members.
		LOUEA B. HARPER, Secreatary,
		MARY J. STEELE, Correspondent.


[Column 1]
LITERARY WOMEN OF UTAH.

THOUGHTS ON "HOMESPUN TALK."

	Utah is growing in her literature. The
steps she has taken in this direction, and the
rapid progress she has made in a very few
years is certainly remarkable. Many people
who are somewhat acquainted with the situa-
tion and doings of our Church wonder at the
amount of good, wholesome literature, suitably
adapted to the reading of both old and young,
which is circulated among our people, and the
influence this has in our social intercourse, and
the improvement it has made among us, es-
pecially in the young, can be seen even by a
careless observer.
	To keep up this intellectual flow it calls into
action many active brains, swift pens and care-
ful critics. The number of women writers
that are continually being added to the ranks
of those already in the literary field, would
be surprising to one who was not expecting to
see such an increase of genius in that line.
	A few years ago we had not the pleasure of
reading articles from the pens of the women of
Utah. Then only those who were most gifted
gave their sentiments to the public, but now
we see here, there are everwhere, women
writers who are grasping the pen, first timidly
and fearful, but gradually growing in confi-
dence and strength, till we find, in articles
written by them, sentiments worthy some of
the greatest writers in the land. We realize
that much of this has been brought about
through the influence and benefit of the Re-
lief Societies and Y. L. M. I. A's., which is one
of the methods of training instituted by our
Heavenly Father in our school of instruction
—but why should not the women of Utah be
able to write, and write glorious sentiments,
too? Are they not living under the voice and
influence of inspiration? Have they not the
Spirit of God within them to guide their
thoughts and expressions? And why should
they not be permitted to write? The time has
come when the Lord is not only willing that
their voice shall be heard in the land, but His
Spirit calls upon them to speak, and they feel
that they must do it. The testimony of the
truth which they have often borne to each

[Column 2]
other is burning within them and they feel
they must give it to the world. They cannot
go on missions, to be sure, and stand before
congregations of the world to bear this testi-
mony, but they can send their voice abroad
through the medium of the press. Whether
their words come to us as the glorious sun-
beams, brilliantly lighting everything with
their rays and dispelling the darkness, or as
the lightning flash, quick, decisive and sure,
every word penetrating to the marrow, or with
the cheery patter as of falling raindrops, or
whether, as best of all, they come like a holy
healing balm poured in upon our hearts, as if
dealt out by a generous, loving hand, lifting
the care and sorrow that has settled there, they
carry with them the same spirit of truth and
godlike purity, which is being and will be felt
by all the world, and they will not fail to leave
their influence upon it. Unlike those of the
world, the literary women of Utah do not
write solely for the novelty or fame they may
secure by it, nor for acquiring money, but they
write simply because they think it is right, and
God requires them to improve this talent as
well as all other talents which He has given
them, and because they are constrained to give
to the world the testimony of the truth that is
burning within them to be spoken, and as they
all drink from the same fountain of righteous-
ness their writings all savor of the same divine
truth; hence it follows that the literary woman
of our Church does not cast mud in the shape
of envious sneers and cutting sarcasms upon a
sister writer when she sees her sitting upon a
higher pedestal than she herself occupies, and
also is consequent the fact that there is no
wholly contrasting sentiments between these
writers, no strife, no severely contradictory
ideas, but all, each in her own way, expounds
the same doctrine and teaches the same truths.
These women are, of course, the same as all
other persons who attempt to give their views
for the public benefit, criticised most sharply,
and many times stingingly severe, by those
who have no aspirations to become literary
and cannot understand the motives that prompt
others to be so. There are some who still
cling to the old fogy idea that a woman must
not look beyond the cooking, churning, darn-
ing, ironing, etc., that belong to the catalogue
of house keeping attainments, if she does she
is out of her sphere.
	I've heard it said of a writer, "She does not
practice in her own life that that she points out
as good, and for the benefit of others." I've
heard the same said of a speaker who has en-
deavored, while standing before a congregation,
to give the words of life to the people, and I
felt sorry for the ignorance of those who said
it.
	Our actions in private life have, of course,
much to do with our influence abroad, but the
person is to be pitied who has the weakness to
allow such a spirit of unjust criticism to creep
into his heart to break the influence of the
good spirit that might reign there, and thus
cause him to turn a careless ear to the teach-
ings of God, because given through one whose
private life was not wholly in keeping with the
divine truths that the spirit of God prompted
him to teach to them. It is a pity that this
spirit of false prejudice and evil opinion so rife
in the world, and from which we, as a people,
have suffered so much, should find place
among us. Many people of the world have
refused to have the Gospel of Jesus Christ
taught to them because of what they had
heard and thought they knew of the lives of
the people who offered to teach it to them.
	We are glad to see that this spirit of false
prejudice is being dispelled from the minds of
the Latter-day Saints. The Gospel has loosen-
ed the yoke of error, and given birth to a
brighter light, and Zion's people are not slow
to avail themselves of the liberty it gives. But


to return to our subject, these missionaries of
the Gospel at home, who send their loving,
peaceful, and soul inspiring consolation to us
through their writings. Their words find their
way to the homes of those upon whose lives
the sunlight of Tennyson, Bryant and others
of their kind, has never shone, and carry with
them a testimony and influence that lightens
their hearts and strengthens their souls as no
uninspired words can do.
	Once, in conversation with a lady on the
subject of Utah's literature, she said, "You
may talk about the inspiration that directs
your people, but if there is aught of inspira-
tion with them your women possess their share
of it, as is shown in the beautiful poems which
some of them have written, many of which
carry with them a soul-awakening influence.
One of the principal ones that has attracted
my attention is that little poom by Mrs. E. R.
Snow, addressed to her Heavenly Father,
which seems to have more of inspiration in it
than anything I've heard from the few speakers
of your Church to whom I've listened. It
carried a conviction of its truth to my mind
from the time when I first heard it."
	And it is certainly a fact that the writings
of these women of Utah, which are dictated
by the voice of inspiration, will find their way
into the houses of many people, and their in-
fluence will find a place and leave their impres-
sions on the hearts that might otherwise re-
main in darkness with regard to the things of
light.
	The Lord has called upon all His children
to labor in the field of His harvest, and is not
this call made to the women as well as the men?
It certainly is. There is a work and a mighty
one depending upon the women in Zion. They
are working for the redemption of their race,
and the welfare of woman in the succeeding
generations depends on her faithfulness in ad-
hering to those holy and elevating principles
given to her through the Gospel of Christ, and
her labors must be strong and without ceasing.
In the language of one of our bretheren I
would say, "The great issue at stake in this bat-
tle between the mighty powers of truth and
error seems enough to animate the very
stones."
	Then how can woman, who is so actively
engaged in this great warfare for the right,
help feeling this animation when she sees that
her eternal welfare depends upon her conquer-
ing and overcoming the evil one. Then why
should she be mute when God calls upon her
through His Spirit to talk, teach, or write the
things of His Kingdom? Then shall she hesi-
tate to lift the pen when she feels there is need
of it because she has temporal duties to call
her attention, or because she is unlearned in
letters? No, no more than shall that Elder be
justified who allows the same things to prevent
him from giving a warning voice to the world
when he has the opportunity. And while the
women in Zion adhere to the principles of their
faith and live by the words of the Gospel, giv-
en through revelation, they will continue to
grow in strength and teach with power, and
their voice will be heard in the land in spite of
every effort of Satan to hinder them by false
prejudice, slander or vile reproaches.
									M.


32	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Emerson once said to Mrs. Helen Jackson
("H. H.") that she stood on the threshold of a
great achievement. The large and increasing
circle of her readers are doubtless satisfied that
Mr. Emerson's prophecy was fulfilled years
ago; if any doubt remained, it would certainly
be removed by the beauty, pathos and power
of Mrs. Jackson's story "Ramona," no being
published in the Christian Union, 20 Lafayette
Place, New York. For dramatic interest, nar-
rative skill and deep feeling no story of recent
years has equalled it.—Ex.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	Sister Emma Pike of Logan, Primary President of
the 5th Ward, received at her house, on Friday, the
20th, a very pleasant party in behalf of her mother,
Sister Barber, who is confined to the house through
sickness; she had reached the age of 75 years. Our noble
"mothers in Israel." Sisters Presendia L. Kimball and
Minerva W. Snow, wife of Apostle Erastus snow, came
to cheer and comfort her with their presence.
 When they were comfortably seated the sound of
fresh young joyous voices broke upon the car, singing
the Primary song, "In our lovely Deseret." Our Prim-
ary children had gathered at the house of Sister Liver-
more, and led by her came to greet Grandma Barber on
her birth-day. They brought many good things to eat,
besides some little gifts for her. A song was sung
then prayer by Sister Snow, and another song. Following
were recitations, songs and extempore congratulations
and addresses by our children who beautified by hap-
piness, looked like a bevy of angels.
 Sister Kimball then spoke to the company; first con-
gratulating Sister Barber on having lived three-quarters
of a century; poured out upon her comfort and blessings,
and prayed that when she had lived as long as life was
desirable she might fall asleep without suffering, as in
the arms of Jesus. Then addressing the children she
said intelligence adn purity shone in their faces, and
they looked bright and very lovely. Spoke of their fu-
ture, told them how many fields of labor were open for
both boys and girls. Instructed them how to become
worthy to fill higher duties as they advanced in life.
Spoke on the order and beauty of celestial marriage,
and bore testimony to its elevating influence. Urged
the necessity for constant prayer to keep them near to
our Father in heaven, and to be kept virtuous and pure
that they may continue to be beautiful.
 Sister Snow then said the presence of the Primary
children always melted her to tenderness. She said we
have our Primaries at St. George. I shall never forget
you and this interview. I have felt great pleasure in
listeing to your songs and the various exercises, and
shall, when I return home, tell our children about you.
We labor in the Temple of the Lor. In a little while
we who are older will pass away, and you young ladies
and little girls will be called to fill our places. Will
you all be prayerful and very obedient, gentle and kind
to your parents, to the aged loving and helpful, and
true and faithful always? The boys will also have to
fill high offices; they will be presidents, apostles, high
priests or seventies, and they will have to carry the
Gospel to the natiosn of the earth, therefore learn while
you are young to become good speakers. In your
Primaries you will secure your first lessons: be thank-
ful to our Heavenly Father for these opportunities and
improve them. Be puncual in attendance; be attentive
and teachable so you may become wise and noble.
Sister Snow bore her testimony to the principle of ce-
lestial marriage; said she had lived in it over forty years,
and would not sell her experience for anything , and told
the children to be very careful in speaking of it. Said
they would better understand its noble results when
they were older. These, and many other good things
were siad, and the pleasant meeting was dismissed with
prayer.
 Then the children sat down to a good suppre and
were afterward dismissed. The grown people took sup-
per, and were waited upon by the young ladies of our
Primary, and when we separated for the night we
thought it a pleasang end to a happy birth-day party.

ELIZABETH L. WILSON CROWTHER.

Logan, June 23rd, 1884.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 25c.per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c. "
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00 "
	“	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25 "	
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, 	1.50 “
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS ASD DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE 15 GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hoursfrom 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
TelephonicCommnnlatlon between Office and Lesidence.
ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
it	1
Sprint and Summer Goods,
AKD LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

