VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15. 1884	No. 6.


[For the EXPONENT.]
INVOCATION.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
These words like an echo from far, far away,
Fall ringing and clinging around my heart,
Till they seem of my weak, longing soul a part,
I long for the clasp of departed hands,
Dear eyes that now beam in the brighter lands,
A word or a token to brighten my way—
O Silence, be broken! A year and a day.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
Oh, where in immensity vast do you stay?
What wonders of bliss could your soul so enslave
As to make you forget who weeps over your grave?
What billows of melody beat from your ear
The voice of the pilgrim beseeching you hear?
O Spirit, set free from the burden of clay,
Stop but for a moment! A year and a day!

A year and a day—a year and a day!
I linger and hearken; one whisper I pray;
No matter how lightly your footstep may fall
I'll hear it; I'll answer your faintest call;
My famishing soul in your presence could gain
The courage to labor and struggle again.
My heart is aweary. No longer delay!
I've waited and listened a year and a day.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
O talisman words has your charm passed away?
I hear no glad footstep, I see no fond smile,
No strenghtening clasp on my weak hands the while—
O Death, thou grim guardian over the Iomb,
Why wearest a mantle of silence and gloom?
Oh, curtain that shadows the light of my day,
Unclose! Unclose! A year and a day.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
I have trodden with faltering feet the way
I saw you were going; too swiftly you passed,
Forgetting one lingering look to cast,
Forgetting to call me, or message to send
To lighten the way for your travel-worn friend;
But though tangled and dreary and dark the way,
Dear heart I am coming. A year and a day.
									LU DALTON.
	Beaver, July 8th, 1884.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS.

IN BEHALF OF THE PIONEERS OF UTAH.

DELIVERED BEFORE THE PUBLIC IN BEAVER, U. T.
JULY 24TH, 1884, BY L. L. DALTON.

	The earth is the Lord's and the fullness
thereof; the world and they that dwell therein,
and we are His people, a remnant of His own
chosen Israel, heirs of the covenants and prom-
ises made with Abraham, our father, and the
friend of God.
	The ways of God are not as the ways of
man, nor His purposes to be fathomed by the
small understanding of man. He created this
earth and placed His children upon it for a
purpose—a wise and glorious purpose—to test
them, to prove which of them would seek after
truth and righteousness for truth and right-
eousness' own sake; for of such is the Kingdom
of Heaven.
	At three grand epochs in the history of this
Church, God has vouchsafed to His mortal
children an explanation of His own perfect
plan for their redemption from all evil, and
their restoration to far more than their original
happiness, power and glory.
	The first revelation of the divine plan of re-
demption was at the beginning of time, in the
days of Adam; the second at the meridian of

[Column 2]
time, in the days of Jesus; the third at the
consummation of time, in the days of Joseph.
	In every dispensation Satan has bestirred
himself to fight against God and try to bring
His purposes to naught, but God has ever
made use of him as an instrument to further
His plans and perfect His praise; suffering him
only to go as far as He would and checking
him at will.
	It is the last dispensation which we have
under consideration, and how fully is it proven
that the ways of God are not as the ways of
man, when He chose Joseph Smith, an obscure
and unlearned boy, before all the great and
wise ones of the earth to open the last and
greatest ministry of the Gospel unto the child-
ren of the earth. Is it any wonder that the
intelligent world found it hard to believe? But
they should have been prepared for it, because
the holy Scriptures have always declared that
the weak things of the earth should be chosen
to confound the wise.
	When this youth had the temerity to affirm
that he had been appointed to translate for the
benefit of all future generations of mankind,
precious records of ancient peoples—he who
understood no language, scarcely even his own
—is it any wonder that reasonable people
found it beyond belief?
	And when the book made its appearance
abounding in excellence, filled with consistent
—albeit most marvelous—histories of periods
and peoples, high and holy teachings, quota-
tions from the lucid explanations of the Jewish
Scriptures, and all couched in most magnificent
language, it was overpowering.
	It was manifestly impossible that such a boy
could be himself the author and originator of
such a book, and had the finest schools on earth
been at the boy's command, two years, the
time occupied in the translation of the book,
was far too brief for the manufacture of so vol-
uminous a work, in which no flaw could be
found; which chimed in strict unison with the
ancient Bible in every line and word. It
seemed that the God-given reasoning powers of
men would inevitably lead them to the truth—
that the work was truly a translation, rendered
by one of the meek of the earth, not by his
own strength and wisdom, but by the gift and
power of the Holy Ghost. But just at this
critical point, the father of lies filled their ears
with that flimsy fabrication, the Spaulding Ro-
mance, and thus turned away the hearts of
men from the glorious opportunity of becoming
filled with God's holy word and having their
eyes opened to the grand panorama of events
from the beginning of creation even unto the
end. And Satan filled the hearts of men with
rage against him, whom they considered an
impostor, until they continually sought after
his life. He was waylaid, beaten and maligned,
but always delivered with his life, for his work
was not done.
	On the 6th of April, 1830, by power and au-
thority from God he organized the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to un-
consecrated eyes it must have seemed a small
matter—only six members—but God blessed
them and called them His own, the Church
which should never be thrown down nor given
to another people; the little stone cut out of
the mountain without hands, which should roll
forth in power and great glory until it should
fill the whole earth. And God nourished and
strengthened His small Church and gave line
upon line, precept upon procept, and revelation

[Column 3]
after revelation for their guidance. And they
grew in numbers and strength until they pur-
chased counties and founded cities, and built
temples to the Most High God. And Joseph
increased in wisdom and in favor with God
and labored diligently for the perfection of the
Saints, teaching them their duties both spirit-
ual and temporal. He impressed upon their
minds the words of Jesus, "Except ye are one
ye are none of mine;" also our national maxim
"Union is strength." And by their success in
embodying these precepts in their actions they
became a power in the land, and their neigh-
bors began to look upon them with jealous eyes
because of their worldly prosperity, and because,
as they averred, these people whom they in
scorn had dubbed "Mormons," now held a bal-
ance of political power between two opposing
parties. They began to cry "priestcraft," "de-
lusion," "one-man-power," and to denounce the
union of the Mormons as something unrepubli-
can and dangerous. They sought every occa-
sion to malign and annoy individuals, especially
Joseph Smith, his brother Hyrum and all the
officers of the Church: Then began a crusade
of accusations, arrests and detentions, hard to
endure, but always ending in the discomfiture
and chagrin of the accusers, until weary with
fruitless attempts to injure their hated neigh-
bors under cover of law, they entered upon a
course of unlawful persecutions which, in some
cases, provoked retaliation, which perhaps fur-
nished a pretext for scenes of plunder, violence
and murder, worthy the darkest of the dark
ages. The prophet and his brethren were re-
peatedly thrown into prison, and as fast as one
false charge fell to the ground another would be
brought forward. At last God's anointed
Prophet and his noble brother were slain by a
painted mob while imprisoned on another false
charge, and under the pledged protection of the
Governor of the State; and that same Govern-
or, at the time of the attack upon the jail, was
haranguing the prophet's people, promising
safety for him and justice for themselves. God
and his own soul know if he was in league with
the dastardly assassins.
	By no means were the evil doers satisfied
with the death of the Smith brothers, though
they boasted loudly that their death would put
an end to the Mormon Church, but now they
fixed their covetous eyes on the possessions of
their neighbors, and continued their deeds of
violence until the Saints were obliged to aban-
don their homes, and in winter, with their aged
and infirm, their young and old, their weak
and strong, turn their backs upon their coun-
try and the whole civilized world, and set their
faces toward the setting sun to seek asylum and
liberty of conscience far away amid the ever-
lasting solitudes.
	Oh the anguish of leaving their beautiful
homes, the graves of their kindred, the Temples
wherein they had labored and rejoiced, and to
crown their afflictions they must leave the
shadow of the star spangled banner, which
waves over the land of the free and the home
of the brave! They loved the dear old flag
for which their kindred blood had been shed
at Lexington and Bunker Hill, but now, in
their extremity, it afforded them no protection.
They had broken no law, yet that modern Pi-
late, Governor Boggs, had signed a decree for
their expulsion from the State, and the Presi-
dent of the United States, when petitioned,
said, "Your cause is just, but I can do nothing
for you."


[Column 1]
	So these oppressed ones turned away, fol-
lowed by the jeers of their despoilers, who ex-
ultingly affirmed that no white man could exist
among the barren wastes to which they were
bound, that the wilderness would devour them,
leaving not one alive to tell the tale. And
even now they were not allowed to depart in
peace. Whether it were from motives of econ-
omy, to get some good service out of men already
death-doomed, or whether hoping that so un-
a request would be refused and thus afford rea-
sonable pretext for further acts of violence
towards the fugitives, cannot now be known,
but certain it is, the outcasts were followed by
a requisition for five hundred picked men to
go to the war in Mexico.
	It must be that some hearts swelled in in-
dignant protest against this impudent demand
for the flower of their strength to fight for the
country which had alienated them. How
could it be otherwise, when they were asked to
give up their prop and stay, their right hand
and eye, just when on the eve of entering an
unknown country, swarming with lurking
savages and teeming with all manner of per-
ils?
	But their new leader, Brigham Young,
cheered and comforted them, promising in the
name of Israel's God that would they cheer-
fully comply with this call, and testify to the
last their reverence for their country's flag,
their dear ones should return to them safely,
and a great blessing should follow. And he
reasoned with them, that with their force un-
impaired, they would still be wholly dependent
upon their God for aid and protection, and
He was just as able to defend the weak as the
strong. He said, "The word of our God is with
us that we are to do His work of the Latter
Day Dispensation, therefore we know that we
shall not perish, but shall be brought safely to
a land of promise as was Israel of old."
	They had faith to believe these things, and
the five hundred men were quickly mustered
and prepared, as well as their scanty means
would permit, for the formidable march across
the continent. How the hearts of these men
must have swelled with grief when they thus
left all that earth held dear to struggle, without
their aid, through the very jaws of danger and
death in search of security and life! And yet,
to this day, some there be who dare say that
these men abandoned their aged parents, their
tender wives and their helpless children ex-
posed, with scanty defense, to the fury of the
elements, to hunger, thirst, fatigue and sickness,
to natural death at the hands of savage foes,
and death from the fangs of ravenous beasts—
for the paltry consideration of thirteen dollars
a month—and they bound for a place where
the labor of their hands was their only means
of existence, and money of no more value than
the gravel of these arid hills.
	But did the camp of Israel move with heavy
feet, amid tears and lamentations over their
hard fate? Not so. They who trust in God
utterly, are always light of heart, for they
know their friend is ever near. They made a
cheerful noise to their God, praising him in
prayer and song and with the music of instru-
ments, acknowledging that all their seeming
misfortunes were blessings in disguise.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow, poet and priestess
among the exiles, thus describes a halt in the
early part of the exodus, during inclement
weather, at a place where they had scarcely
room to stand and none to repose:
	"The brethren built a roaring fire, around
which some of them stood and sung songs and
hymns all night, while others parched corn,
roasted potatoes, etc. Not a complaint was
heard—al! were cheerful, and judging from
appearances, strangers would have taken us to
be pleasure excursionists instead of a band of
gubernatorial exiles."
	Could anything else but God's own presence

[Column 2]
and support have converted so forlorn a ven
ture into even the semblance of a pleasure ex
cursion? How deep the philosophy of wear
ing pain like pleasure until we forget that it is
pain!
	But even these devoted pilgrims could not
always forget their pain, for the song of praise
was sometimes changed to a funeral dirge, and
then the weak part of human nature claimed
its tribute of blistering tears and heartrending
sighs. But for them, as for those who burned
their ships, there was no return. Forward they
must go whatever befell.
	They were sustained, and their almost im-
possible undertaking accomplished. They ar-
rived at the present site of Salt Lake, Rose of
Western Cities, on the 24th of July, 1847, and
made haste to consecrate the spot with prayer
and song, thanksgiving and joy. They unfurled
to the breeze the star spangled banner of their
loved and lost land of the free and home
of the brave; and took possession of the alien
soil in the name of God and the United States.
Yet to this day, there be some who dare to say
that these devoted patriots were not, and are
not loyal!
	On the same day, before the sun set, they
broke the primeval soil and planted grain;
thus setting sign and seal upon their determin-
ation to go forth upon the face of the land and
subdue it.
	And the privations and hardships which they
endured before and after that day, and the
trials which they met and overcame, are they
not written in the book of chronicles? But
the half has never been told, nor can be until
the great day when the books shall be opened
and all men shall be judged from the records
therein, whether for good or for evil.
	Time passed on. Their brave Battalion
boys did return to them, with but the loss of a
single man; and strange to relate, although our
exiles had pitched their tents beyond the bor-
der of the United States, and there established
a form of government and a code of laws in
imitation of those of their own beloved home,
the fortunes of that very war, in aid of which
the flower of their strength had been called
away in time of their direst need, had extend-
ed the boundaries of the United States, until
their new home had become part of that en-
lightened nation, a part of whose people had
rejected them. And they rejoiced that since
they might not return to their country, their
country had come to them; and they considered
that thus the promise of the Lord, made
through Brigham Young, was abundantly re-
deemed.
	And now briefly review the achievements of
this vanguard of civilization in the short space
of thirty-seven years. Alone, unaided and un-
sustained by the parent government, Utah's
band of orphan children have smoothed the
rugged aspect of nature, clothed desolation
with beauty, and transformed gaunt famine in-
to rosy, smiling abundance. By doing this
they made the trans-continental highway pos-
sible, and it is admitted, on all hands, that this
communication between the eastern and west-
ern shores advanced the occupation of all
these broad Western Territories a hundred
years. They eat not the bread of idleness, but
labor with the hands diligently. They have
built pleasant homes and peopled them with
sturdy, energetic sons and daughters, and
adopted thousands of brothers and sisters who
came from foreign lands. They have sent mes-
sengers all over the world to proclaim the glad
tidings of great joy, which they have tested and
know to be sufficient to sustain the human
heart through the darkest hours of trial. They
have established various useful industries, and
they have built Temples, churches and school-
houses. Not a hamlet in all Utah which does
not endeavor to support a school for the intel-
lectual cultivation of its children. They

[Column 3]
print and buy yearly thousands of dollars
worth of books and papers, and encourage their
youth to read, study and learn. And yet, to this
day, there be some who dare to say that the
brave pioneers of a new world are willfully
ignorant and degraded, and willing their child-
ren should be so also.
	But let Zion rejoice in the God of her salva-
tion, whose outstretched arm is mighty to save;
and let her sons and daughters rejoice in the
third and final Gospel diepensation, when the
Great Shepherd has set His hand for the last
time to gather His scattered sheep. Let us re-
joice that we have been found worthy to be
called and set to labor in the whitening harvest.
Let us rejoice in our parents, in our husbands
and wives, and in the lovely children which
spring up around us like the flowers in the
field. Let us rejoice in the high calling to
which they are called—to become saviors on
Mount Zion to both the living and the dead.
	And finally, let us rejoice in Zion, which is
to become beautiful and glorious like a bride
adorned for the coming of the bridegroom; and
which is to become a beacon light and an ark
of refuge to all the nations of the earth. And
let us pray unceasingly to be found blameless
and unspotted in the great day of her purifica-
tion, with our lamps filled and ready when the
Bridegroom cometh. Amen.


42	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Victoria sent President Arthur a dis-
patch of congratulation on the discovery of
the Greeley party.

	The English Woman's Review comes laden
with intelligence of the active work of the
noble ladies engaged in the struggle for equal
suffrage and a better condition for women
generally.

	"The women of Siam have petitioned the
king to take from their husbands the right to
pledge them in the payment of gambling debts"
This is a legal sacrifice to which women are
liable in that country by getting married.

	The presses of the Lawrence American are
being run by electricity. The power is con-
veyed to the office over a wire from a dynamo
more than a quarter of a mile away, and the
experiment is said to work perfectly. A daily
paper printed by electricity is something of a
wonder even in this age of the world.

	It would seem to lookers on that the French
are getting their hands full with China and
Madagascar and foreign places Keeping
up armaments all around the world may make
France formidable as a foe to foreign nations,
but how will it affect the question of peace at
home. Is it not risking too much strength to
conquer abroad and lessening power at home?

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe of Boston, delivered
a lecture before the Concord School of Phil-
osophy Saturday, July 26th, subject, "Emer-
son's Relation to Society." It is said to have
been the principal feature of the occasion, and
that "the audience was a brilliant one," as it
was no doubt a critical one. This eminent,
scholarly lady has won much distinction in
literary and in social circles.

	The newspapers give a good account of the
voting by women at the elections in Washing-
ton Territory. There has been considerable
laudable enthusiasm in the matter, which has
made it all the more interesting. For our own
part we never have had any doubts but that
women would conduct themselves with all due
propriety on these public occasions, and not
lose a particle of their womanliness, a wonder-
ful characteristic word in this day of woman's
advancement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 43


[Column 1]
HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

The evening passed—the elder rose—
"Sister Virginia, one last word:
I would a friend's desire express
	For your own future. May you find
The Zion that your heart preferred
	To the great Babylon behind.

"May the brave firmness you have shown
Still bear you on through weal or woe,
And should you ever need a friend
	Just send me word. Be prayerful still,
And seek above all things to know,
	And love, and do our Father's will."

Within her own blest room that night
Her heart its burden all outpoured:
The gratitude, the happiness—
	Escaped from out man's cruel snare,
Through power and mercy of the Lord—
	And still besought His holy care.

So like a heaven upon earth
The days went on, they scarce had thought.
To count the months, and daily grew.
	These ties of friendship dearer yet;
Though one e'er present sorrow brought
	Daily its shadow to be met.

For the one boy, Helen's own child,
When fever's scourge was spent and done,
Though rescued back to life and strength
	Walked in their midst with blighted mind;
Silent, unchild-like, grown as one
	Averse to join with human kind.

A father's love and care he met
With stolid, calm indifference;
But, as with nature's instinct, turned
	In quiet faithfulness to her
Whose heart waked to its keenest sense
	Strove still his feeble mind to stir.

Silent and harmless in their midst,
Unanswering love's caress or word,
His ev'ry need and wish supplied;
	Basking in sunshine, noting not
Flower or stream or flitting bird,
	'Twere hard to tell his hidden thought.

Yet, ever when the thunders rolled,
And lightnings flashed before his eyes,
They woke his spirit to reply,
	That keener pierced their troubled hearts;
He mocked the o'er cast, lurid skies
	With muttering wrath and angry darts.

Their only son, their only hope,
Vain seemed their patience and e'en prayer!
Yet resignation meekly bore
	The cross so strange that God had sent,
Waiting the time He should declare
	The purpose that His lesson meant.

Once, stirred by precious truths so sweet
To the disheartened, there arose
Within Virginia's heart, the wish
	To send the words of truth and peace,
Within a missive brief enclosed,
	Praying they might bear swift release

To anxious fears within the heart
That Lillian lightly, idly prized;
In vain—for he though noble, pure
	As man may be, their force withstood;
What she so plainly realized
	His reasons never understood.

"It gives me joy to know your life
Is blessed with comfort, happiness;
That you have reached that goal of faith
	You sought so earnestly and long.
And would take to your heart no less;
	I know you would not love what's wrong—

"And yet, I cannot see with you;
I know, you seek to bear me balm
And hope, and strength to light my soul,
	But still I cannot understand;
My soul is weary, yours is calm,
	Your bark will reach faith's better land.

"Take all of happiness that life
Can yield or bring; your day has dawned,
Bright be its zenith, its decline
	As gentle as your spirit is.

[Column 2]
Farewell! till in the blest Beyond
	We win the peace that here we miss."

Then her heart answered: "Yes, farewell—
Sweet memories so earthly dear.
Have I e'er faltered in the thought
	Which heaven to choose, the one beyond
Or this so pure, so sure, so near,
	Out-reaching love so true and fond?

"Farewell, till God in His own time
Shall speak to thee, then thou wilt know
A higher guide than reason's light;
	Then shall I greet thee, brother, friend,
With joy, for I have loved thee so—
	Where holy friendships never end."


[Column 1]
A DAY-DREAM

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

PART SECOND.

	The scene changes. The coals are burning
just as bright, but the pretty home and com-
fortable family have faded from view, and I
find myself walking up Broadway in the city
of New York. Men of business are hurrying
to and fro as if their lives depended on their
movements. Groups of men are standing here
and there talking on the principal topic of the
day, politics. Some are calm and sanguine,
others excited and careworn. Here a ragged
urchin is begging for a penny to buy a morsel
of bread. There a sweet little girl with blue
eyes and flaxen hair—but oh, so tangled. As
I look at her poor, bare feet and tattered gar-
ments, she lifts her tiny hands, and, with a be-
seeching look, says, "Pretty lady, ma is so sick,
and I am so hungry" I place a dollar in the
poor child's hand and hurry on.
	I slacken my pace, for I am attracted by the
movements of a young girl a little in advance
of me. Her poor feet are peeping through her
torn shoes. She draws a thin shawl around
her as if she was cold. The pale face is
pinched with hunger and her eyes are sunken
and glassy. She is scarcely more than a child.
She staggers on and mutters, "Rum! rum! will
nobody give me rum to drown these racking
thoughts?" A fine, handsome man is coming
towards us, dressed in the height of fashion.
Although it is nearly dark, I recognize him as
one of the leaders of our nation. As he passes
with his head erect, the young girl's face turns
to an ashy hue, she gasps for breath, starts for-
ward, and, in a stifled shriek, cries, "O God, my
destroyer!" and falls lifeless to the earth. I
pass on and meet a degraded wretch with
bloated face and bleared eyes; a little fellow is
running after him, he takes his father's hand.
The child cries in a poor, piping voice, "Father,
come home; do not spend any more money;
Tommy is sick, we have no bread, no fire, and
we are so cold and hungry."
	Gaily caparisoned carriages are passing to
and fro filled with ladies and gentlemen
dressed in costly attire, going to some fashion-
able place of amusement. The flaunting cour-
tesan and proud libertine pass side by side.
Here are houses of business, bowling alleys,
saloons, academies of music, lyceums, houses
of ill fame, churches, theatres, palatial resi-
dences, cottages and hovels. I turn my eyes
to the blue vault of heaven, bedecked with
myriads of stars, and from them to the bril-
liantly lighted streets, refulgent with electric
lights. In fancy I see the grand ocean with
its rolling billows; I see noble ships loaded with
costly merchandise. I see magnificent steam-
ers, sea houses of luxury for travelers; I listen
to the shrill whistle and loud thump of the
iron horse as he rushes along over hill and val-
ley, by fields of golden grain and waving corn,
bearing his precious freight of human souls,
some bent on business,some on pleasure, others on
errands of mercy or, may be, of revenge. And
I think what a beautiful world this would be

[Column 2]
if it were not for "man's inhumanity to man."
I wonder that man, the noblest of God's works,
should make a great part of it fit only for a
resort for demons.
	As I thus muse on the beauties of creation
and the frailties of man, I find myself before
a large mansion. I walk up the broad steps
and in at the door. Noiselessly I pass through
the hall and up a grand old oaken staircase.
Costly images of marble and bronze, from their
retired niches, gaze mournfully upon me, caus-
ing a thrill of gloomy emotions. I pass from
the long winding staircase to a picture gallery,
where the walls are lined with portraits of
stately ladies and gentlemen, who seem to
frown down as if they were insulted at the au-
dacious stranger who dared to intrude on their
gloomy solitude. With an inquiring gaze, I
pass from one to the other until the portrait of
a lovely girl particularly attracts my atten-
tion. She is a blonde with light auburn hair
and deep blue eyes. Her skin is as fair as ala-
baster; her cheeks like the pale, beauteous rose;
her cherry lips, which are slightly apart, re-
veal her pearly teeth. What innocence and
childlike beauty envelop that love form. I
query in my mind if the original of this bright
vision is the one treasure of the house—a love-
ly daughter.
	As I stand entranced with the life-like beau-
ty of the portrait, a sigh falls on my ear so full
of woe that I start with horror, thinking it
must be some benighted spirit winding its way
to the lonely grave. Turning, I see what
seems to be a private door leading to another
apartment. I gently push it open and walk
in. I find myself in a spacious room, furnished
with all the modern luxury of refined life. As
I noiselessly tread the rich carpet it is like
gliding through beds of roses. A magnificent
chandelier of a hundred jets hangs from a fres-
coe celing. There is a grand piano, closed,
with the music stiffly placed on one corner, as
if the pretty performer was no more. A harp
stands in one corner of the room. The glow-
ing coals in the polished grate look inviting to
a weary traveler, but they bring no warmth to
my chilling limbs. Fantastic shapes appear to
be dancing here and there, and I people the
room with shadows of my own making from
costly mirrors, and I fancy I am walking
through some lonely castle where the spirits of
the long ago departed are met to deplore their
long banishment from the scenes of their child-
hood days. Again I hear that sigh, like the
slow breaking of a desolate heart. I turn my
eyes to whence the sound comes. At a little
distance stands a tall, beautiful woman of thir-
ty-five, the counterpart, only matured, of the
lovely portrait in the picture gallery. The
lady is dressed in black velvet; a costly fichu
of white lace, fastened with a diamond brooch,
is her only ornament. The unutterable woe of
that peerless face causes a thrill of the deepest
pity to pass through my sensitive soul. She
clasps her hands; she raises her tearful eyes to
heaven and softly breathes the prayer, "O God,
have pity on my child!" Then sinks like a
wilted flower to her chair. The low sobs and
visible anguish of that tortured breast arouse
my keenest contempt for the being who caused
so much suffering.


﻿"Beyond the Mississippi" will appear in the
September number.
	The State officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annual
stake reports, carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of Sep.,
that a complete and satisfactory report may be
made to the General Conference in October.
Direct the reports to Mrs. E. S. Taylor, P. O.
Box 629, Salt Lake City, Utah.
					LOUIE M. WELLS,
				Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


44	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 15, 1884.


SAD OCCURRENCES.

	There are great events transpiring at the pres-
ent time which cannot fail but bring to the
mind of every Latter-day Saints the truth of the
fulfilment of prophecy, ancient and modern.
One of the most notable occurrences is the great
earthquake which took place a short time ago in
England, and there was a terrific shock on the
10th of this month on the eastern coast of the
United States, extending from Sandy Hook to
Portland, Maine. Although no great damage,
or very serious at least, was done, yet it carried
consternation to many thousands of people and
will, no doubt, help to fill men and women with
terror and dismay, as has been prophesied should
be the case in the last days. Asssuredly the Lord
is showing His indignation by thunderings and
lightnings and "earthquakes in divers places,"
and other great calamities and accidents which
seem to be constantly transpiring and fear is tak-
ing hold upon the people, notwithstanding
many assert to the contrary.
	The wicked still continue to persecute the
Saints and seek the lives of those who are labor-
ing to proclaim the Gospel to the honest among
the nations.
	The latest instance of mobocracy occurred
in a place called Cane Creek, Lewis Co., Tenes-
see on Sunday, August 10, while a meeting was
being held on the farm of a man named Con-
der. Twelve masked men appeared upon the
scene, and it is authenticically stated that five
persons (at least) are killed and one woman
thought to be fatally wounded, Mrs. Conder,
wife of the man on whose farm the meeting
was being held. What pain and suffering; what
anguish of soul will be caused by this terrible
tragedy. Innocent, inoffensive, honest young
men, sent to proclaim the glad tidings of salva-
tion and seeking to bring souls to a knowledge
of the truth. Leaving home and all the tender
associations of kindred and friends; going with-
out purse or scrip as the Great Examplar in-
structed His disciples to, depriving themselves
of the comforts and privileges they enjoyed in
Zion willingly to labor in the Master's vineyard.
It is hardly creditable that such dark deeds
could have been enacted as the killing of these
Elders while engaged in devotional exercises on
the Sabbath day; that such a condition of
things could exist in this far-famed land of re-
ligious liberty. Yet so it is. How humiliating
to think that our poor country of which we have
been so proud to boast has fallen into such dis-
grace. What a blight, what a stigma on the na-
tion's escutcheon, that ministers of the Gospel
Jesus taught, while in the discharge of their
important duties should be attacked by a mob
armed and disguised, their lives threatened,
and some even slain. But they are slain for the


testimony of Jesus, and it will be in this in-
stance as it ever has been, "The blood of the
martyrs" will be "the seed of the Church."
	All the particulars of this dastardly outrage
have not as yet been obtained, but enough is al-
ready known to make one weep and mourn for
those who have thus been cut off in the prime
of manhood, and for the dear ones to whom they
were bound by the purest and holiest ties of hu-
man love.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTER ZINA D. H. Young, who has been in
Logan for a short time past officiating in the Tem
ple, came down to the city on Saturday, Aug.
9. She has during her stay in Cache Valley,
in addition to her labors in the Temple, visited
several of the settlements and attended meet-
ings of the Relief Society and Primary Asso-
ciations. At Millville there was a very interest-
ing annual meeting of the Relief Society, and the
singing was done by twelve of the larger girls
of the Primary, who rendered some choice se-
lections in their sweet fresh voices, and which
was a charming feature of the meeting. At
Lewiston the Relief Society had never been vis-
ited by the sisters from Salt Lake and they were
indeed greatly pleased and rejoiced to have Sis-
ter Zina; Sister Presendia Kimball also visited
most of the settlements with Sister Zina and
also went to Meadowville to visit relatives.

	SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH went to Mor-
gan on Friday, the first of August, to attend the
Sisters' Conference of that Stake. She returned
on Monday evening, August 4. During the con-
ference Sister Eliza re-organized the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Morgan Stake, which became necessary on
account of the resignation of Sister Mary Jane
Toomar, who expects shortly to move away.
Sister Susannah Heiner was elected President;
and Sisters Mary Welch and Turner her Coun-
selors.

	ON the 16th of July we had the pleasure, in
company with Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, of
attending the Relief Society Conference of Da-
vis Stake, held at Kaysville, Sister Nancy A.
Clark presiding. Bishop Barton of that place
attended both morning and afternoon session.
The Relief Society of that Stake is in a very
prosperous condition; the sisters who take part
in it are faithful, earnest and energetic. After
the Conference adjourned the two Primary As-
sociations met in joint session, Sister Jane
Blood presiding. There were a great number of
children, and they observed the most excellent
order. The singing was particularly sweet and
the exercises were very well rendered. Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers who presides over the P. A.
of that Stake takes the deepest interest in the
advancement of the little people in the Primary
and is untiring in her labors through the coun-
ty.

	WE devote most of the editorial columns of
this issue to the teachings of Joseph the Prophet
given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Much
of this matter has been published in the Ex-
ponent some years since, and also in the Con-
tributor, August, 1882, but as there is still need
of teaching to many not acquainted with these
things, and all may not have read it or even
seen it, it seems highly proper to republish, es-
pecially for the benefit of the sisters actively
engaged in the labors pertaining to the Relief
Society, and who have not the opportunity of
hearing so much valuable instruction as those
residing in this Stake of Zion. We trust the
sisters will not only read these articles (as it
will be continued in the next number), but will
preserve the papers, that these important things
may be kept on record.

[Column 2]
	THE Ladies' fair of Summit County has been
opened at Coalville. It is expected that suffi-
cient money will be raised by the energy and
exertion of the ladies at this Fair to buy the
glass for the Stake Tabernacle.

	OUR readers will doubtless be pleased with the
very ably written address of Mrs. Lu Dalton,
delivered on the 24th of July in Beaver.
	So much space is occupied by the publication
of this address that we are unable to commence
the Biography of Sister Patty Sessions in this
number, but intend doing so in September 1st.
However, we think the article a very excellent
one and the theme, one on which too much can-
not be said.
	Articles on hand for publication: Conference
of Y. L. and Primary Associations of Millard
Stake, A Birthday Party of Patriarch B. F.
Johnson, Relief Society Conference of Sanpete
Stake, "Music" and "Musings" from Orange-
ville, To the Girls, "Correspondence" from Pine
Valley, Woodruff and Hyrum, an essay signed
A. F., and a very ably written letter from Laie.
These articles are considered suitable and will
be published as soon as practicable.


SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF THE
PROPHET JOSEPH.

HIS TEACHINGS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	"April 28, 1842. At two o'clock, p.m., I met
the members ot the "Female Relief Society,"
and after presiding at the admission of many
new members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come in posses-
sion of the privileges, blessings and gifts of the
Priesthood, and that the signs should follow
them, such as healing the sick, casting out dev-
ils, etc., and that they might attain unto these
blessings by a virtuous life and conversation, and
diligence in keeping all the commandments; a
synopsis of which was reported by Miss E. R.
Snow:
	"President Joseph Smith arose and drew the
attention of the meeting to the 12th chapter, I
Corinthians—'Now concerning spiritual gifts, I
would not have you ignorant.' Said that the
passage in the third verse, which reads, 'No man
can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy
Ghost,' should be translated, 'No man can know
that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy
Ghost.' He continued to read the chapter, and
give instructions respecting the different offices,
and the necessity of every individual acting in
the sphere allotted him or her, and filling the
several offices to which they were appointed.
	"Spoke of the disposition of many men to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dishonora-
ble, and to look with jealous eyes upon the
standing of others who are called to preside over
them. That it was the folly and nonsense of
the human heart for a person to be aspiring to
other stations than those to which they are ap-
pointed of God for them to occupy; that it was
better for individuals to magnify their respective
callings, and wait patiently till God shall say
to them, 'Come up higher.'
	"He said the reason of these remarks being
made was, that some little foolish things were
circulating in the Society, against some of the sis-
ters not doing right in laying hands on the sick.
Said that if the people had common sympathies
they would rejoice that the sick could be healed;
that the time had not been before that these
things could be in their proper order; that the
Church is not fully organized, in its proper or-
der, and cannot be, until the Temple is complet-
ed, where places will be provided for the admin-
istration of the ordinances of the Priesthood.
	"President Smith continued the subject, by
quoting the commission given to the ancient


[Column 1]
Apostles in Mark, xvi, 15, 16, 17, 18: "Go ye into
all the world, and preach the Gospel to every
creature. He that believeth and is baptized,
shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall
be damned. And these signs shall follow them
that believe: in my name shall they cast out
devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they
shall take up serpents; and if they drink any
deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall
lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.'
	"No matter who believeth, these signs, such
as healing the sick, casting out devils, etc.,
should follow all that believe, whether male or
female. He asked the Society if they could not
see, by this sweeping promise, that wherein
they are ordained, it is the privilege of those
set apart to administer in that authority, which
is conferred on them; and if the sisters should
have faith to heal the sick, let all hold their
tongues, and let everything roll on.
	"He said, if God has appointed him, and chos-
en him as an instrument to lead the Church,
why not let him lead it through? Why stand in
the way when he is appointed to do a thing?
Who knows the mind of God? Does He not
reveal things differently from what we expect?
He remarked that he was continually rising, al-
though he had everything bearing him down,
standing in his way, and opposing; notwith-
standing all this opposition, be always came out
right in the end.
	"Respecting females administering for the
healing of the sick, he further remarked, there
could be no devil in it, if God gave His sanction
by healing; that there could be no more sin in
any female laying hands on and praying for the
sick, than in wetting the face with water; it is
no sin for anybody to administer that has faith,
or if the sick have faith to be healed by their
administration.
	"He reproved those that were disposed to find
fault with the management of the concerns of
the Church, saying God had called him to lead
the Church, and he would lead it right, those
that undertake to interfere will be ashamed
when their own folly is made manifest; that he
calculates to organize the Church in its proper
order as soon as the Temple is completed.
	"President Smith continued by speaking of
the difficulties he had to surmount since the
commencement of the work, in consequence of
aspiring men. 'Great big Elders,' as he called
them, who had caused him much trouble; to
whom he had taught the things of the kingdom
in private councils, they would then go forth in-
to the world and proclaim the things he had
taught them, as their own revelations; said the
same aspiring disposition will be in this Society,
and must be guarded against; that every person
should stand, and act in the place appointed,
and thus sanctify the Society and get it pure.
He said he had been trampled under foot by as-
piring Elders, for all were affected by that spir-
it; for instance, John E. Page and others had
been aspiring; they could not be exalted, but
must run away, as though the the care and au-
thority of the Church were vested with them.
He said he had a subtle devil to deal with, and
could only curb him by being humble.
	'As he had this opportunity, he was going to
instruct the ladies of this Society, and point out
the way for them to conduct themselves, that
they might set according to the will of God;
that he did not know that he should have many
opportunities of teaching them, as they were
going to be left to themselves; they would not
long have him to instruct them; that the Church
would not have his instructions long, and the
world would not be troubled with him a great
while, and would not have his teachings.
	"He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the Church, and said that the faithful

[Column 2]
members of the Relief Society should receive
them in connection with their husbands, that
the Saints whose integrity has been tried and
proved faithful, might know how to ask the
Lord and receive an answer; for according to his
prayers, God had appointed him elsewhere. He
exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their
faith and prayers for, and place confidence in
their husbands, whom God has appointed for
them to honor, and in those faithful men
whom God has placed at the head of the Church
to lead His people; that we should arm and sus-
tain them with our prayers; for the keys of the
kingdom are about to be given to them, that
they may be able to detect everything false: as
well as to all the Elders who shall prove their
integrity in due season.
	"He said if one member becomes corrupt, and
you know it, you must immediately put it
away, or it will either injure or destroy the
whole body. The sympathies of the heads of
the Church have induced them to bear a long
time with those who are corrupt, until they are
obliged to cut them off, lest all become con-
taminated; you must put down iniquity, and by
your good examples, stimulate the Elders to
good works; if you do right, there is not danger
of your going too fast. He said he did not care
how fast we run in the path of virtue; resist
evil, and there is no danger; God, men and an-
gels will not condemn those that resist every-
thing that is evil, and devils cannot; as well
might the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as
overthrow an innocent soul that resists every-
thing which is evil."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ANNUAL.
[line break]
	On the 15th of July, in company of Presi-
dents Louie Felt and Ellen Clawson, we attend-
ed an annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of Sugar House Ward.  The meeting was
conducted by the President, Mrs. McGhie.
	The exercises of the children were very cred-
itably rendered, exhibiting the effect of careful
training.  We noticed a marked improvement
from one year ago, in a large increase. In num-
bers, and also in the very excellent order of the
children.  One highly pleasing feature in the
exercises was extempore speeches by s[-]ven or
eight of the boys in succession.  We felt in-
tensely interested in all of the exercises of the
girls as well as the boys, considering them, as
we do, true indications of future usefulne[--].
	It was plainly manifest that their President
and her Counselors have won the hearts of those
children, which is the key to success in mould-
ing and guiding in the right direction.  Love is
the ruling power in these associations.
	The children invited us to join in a picnic af-
ter the close of services; and with promptitude
tables were bountifully spread for aged, middle-
aged and every child, of which all partook in so-
cial order.	E.R.S.S.


﻿A MARK OF RESPECT.
[line break]
	On the 24th of July, the 61st anniversary of
her birthday, Sister Elizabeth Clark, President
of the Primary Association in the Fifth Ward,
was the recipient of a very graceful expression
of the affection and respect of the children com-
posing that organization, and their appreciation
of her labors in their behalf.  Two elegant vases
were presented to her, on behalf of the Asso[-]ia-
tion, by Misses Lizzie Brown and Marsd[-]n, two
little girls who aollected the subscriptions, pur-
chased the articles and made the presentation
in a manner very creditable to themselves, and
highly gratifying to Sister Clark, who was as
much surprised as she was pleased at the occur-
ence.								COM.


HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
	It has often been said that there is no love so
enduring, so constant and unwavering, as a
mother's love.  This view, as a rule, I coincide
with, and I think it may be as truthfully said
that there is no love more ardent and irresistible
than that existing between husband and wife
if based upon pure principles, it breaks down all
barriers, sweeping all before it with a [---] not
easily withstood.  There is something most pe-
culiar about this love between the sexes which
the Lord has certainly implanted in the human
heart by divine power, and which is inseparably
our Heavenly Father.  Where marriage is what
it should be, a union of two souls, where two
hearts beat in unison, and the thoughts and as-
pirations are pure and holy, there, certainly, 
does true love exist.
	How often do we see a strong, vigorous man
devotedly attached to an invalid wife, patiently
striving to alleviate her suffering, and to convert
even her moments of pain into pleasure by the
strength of his love.
	And again, there is a young, innocent maid-
en, possessing a happy home, kind, indulgent
parents, and loving brothers and sisters, and
surrounded, it would seem, by all that is neces-
sary for her happiness, but there is still some-
thing lacking; and she willingly foresakes all this
to join her fate to that of a man she has
learned to love and revere with all the fervor of
her young, trusting heart.  Perhaps it is but a
short time since he was a total stranger to her,
but this matters not, she is willing to trust her
future happiness in his keeping, to share his lot
in life, though perhaps it may be a much hum-
bler one than she has been used to.  She will
even, in many cases, leave the land of her birth,
the home of her childhood, with little hopes of
ever seeing them again, sundering all other
earthly ties to follow this comparative strang-
er.
	How careful should husbands and wives be
that they do not trifle with this holy feeling;
that they do not let this love cool, or die out in
their hearts; for without it there are many
trials in married life which would be hard to 
bear.
	True love, properly cultivated, will not dimin-
ish with the advance of years, but will continu-
ally grow brighter and stronger, each fresh tie
and new pledge of love binding the hearts of the
parents more firmly together, with a chain
which will never rust, but grow brighter with
the using; a cord which will grow stronger and
never snap asunder.  If this is what they de-
sire, the wife must never grow less considerate,
but rather seek more earnestly to smooth the
way and remove the thorns from her husband's
path as the cares of life increase upon him.  It
devolves on him to battle with the outside
world, to struggle with the stern realities of life,
to gain a livelihood for the loved ones who are
dependent upon him; to stand between them
and danger.  And the wife has it more or less in
her power to make it a labor of love rather than
an irksome duty, by order and comfort in their
home, love in her heart and a smile on her
face. 
	And on the other hand, I often wonder if
many husbands realize what an easy matter it is
to make or mar a woman's happiness, and how
much depends upon him in this matter.
	Her greatest joy is not occasioned by his build-
ing her a fine house; nor by buying her a new
dress or an organ, neither by elaborate or ex-
travagant demonstrations of affection in the
presence of others.  Oft times a silent pressure
of the hand or loving glance of the eye is far
more potent; they touch the tenderest chord of
the heart and waken a response more eloquent
than words.


Oh, if husbands could only realize how prec-
ious to a wife are these little endearments, they
would certainly not be so grudgingly given.
	A woman appreciates these seeming trifles far
more in her times of trouble and sickness than
she did when a blushing maiden in the old
courting days. A husband may be so kind and
considerate that the wife will often say to her-
self, "he is the very best husband in the
world."
	Yet at the same time, while passing through
some of the trials peculiar to her sex, her heart
yearns for a little word of love; she hungers and
thirsts for those endearments which were once
so lavishly bestowed, and doubts of his contin-
ued love force themselves upon her, until she
becomes moody, miserable, and, at times, even
disagreeable.  How little it would cost him and
how it would lighten the burden of her some-
times overcharged heart, to speak one word of
affection, which would act like magic, dispel
the clouds and bring sunshine in their stead.
				ETKA.


_____________________________________________________________________________________


							WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
_____________________________________________________________________________________


SENIOR RETRENCHMENT MEETING.
				_____

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms on Saturday, August 9, commencing at
2 p.m., Counselor Zina D. H. Young presiding.
After singing prayer was offered by Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, and Sisters Howard, Horne and
Kimball prayed for, that they might be speed-
ily restored to health. Minutes of previous
meeting were read and approved, and the report
of an annual meeting of the four Primary As-
sociations of Mill Creek was read by the Secre-
tary. Sister Zina was the first to address the
meeting; she dwelt eloquently upon the bless-
ings and good influences experienced while en-
gaged in working in the Temple at Logan, also
of her visits to the Associations and among the
people in that vicinity, and made many very
excellent remarks upon the order and purposes
of our lives here upon the earth.
	Sisters E. B. Wells and E. S. Taylor made
some suggestions to the sisters on matters per-
taining to their particular labors, and alluded to
the need of improvement in spiritual intelli-
gence, and so forth. After which Sister Zina
called upon the sisters in the congregation to ex-
press themselves.
	Sisters Watmough, Paul, Freeze, Bird and
Dyer each made some remarks; and Sister Dyer
spoke quite powerfully in the gift of tongues;
Sister Elizabeth Paul was called upon by Sister
Zina and gave the interpretation. Miss Emma
Finch made a few very touching remarks upon
the subject of healing in a very impressive man-
ner.
	Sung Doxology.  Benediction by Miss Alice
Jenkins, in which two of the sisters who were
sick were earnestly remembered before the
Lord.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

ST. GEORGE.

	The Relief Society of the St. George Stake
of Zion held their Quarterly Conference at the
Lyceum Hall, St. George, on Friday, June
13th. There was not so large an attendance
as usual, owing, probably, to the unfavorable
condition of the roads for traveling, from the
unusual amount of rain which has fallen this
spring, but a good spirit prevailed. The re-
ports read were satisfactory, showing an in-
crease in members, and a general feeling and
desire to improve in all things, and to attend
to the admonitions and carry out the instruc-
tions that are given.

[Column 2]
	Apostle Erastus Snow in his address re-
marked that the sisters had done remarkably
well in the way they had observed the word
of wisdom, and exhorted them to continue
faithful in all their labors, and they would not
lose their reward.
	Elder Henry Eyring encouraged the sisters
to persevere in their efforts to raise silk, as it
would no doubt become a lucrative employ-
ment, as silk was now being raised in Amer-
ica instead of being imported from France and
China.
	The Young Ladies' and Primary Associa-
tions are doing a good work. The minds of
the young are expanding, and in very many
cases they seem able to grasp the truths of the
Goepel and comprehend its first principles.
	May the Lord shower down his blessings
upon those who organized, and those who sus-
tain those institutions.
					M. A. G. B, Secretary.

TEMPE, ARIZONA.

	On the 18th of January, 1884, the Primary
Association of Tempe was organized under
the direction of Prest. D. T. LeBaron with
Vilate E. LeBaron, President; Geneva John-
son and Mamie Hawley, Counselors; Winnie
Johnson, Secretary and Treasurer. We have
fifty names enrolled, with an average attend-
ance of thirty-five. Our programmes are well
carried out, although the members are mostly
under ten years of age. The children are all
willing to do their best. We meet once a week
and all seem to feel well in their labors with
the Primary.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
						MAMIE HAWLEY.

	On the 30th of January, 1884, the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Tempe was organized as follows, and
the officers set apart under the direction of
Prest. D. T. LeBaron: S. E. Russell, Prest.;
Zina LeBaron and Mary Johnson, Counselors;
Nettie Johnsen, Secretary; Amelia Rogers,
Treasurer; Jennie LeBaron, Librarian.
	We have twenty names enrolled, with an
average attendance of fourteen. We meet
once a week, and conjointly with the Y. M. M.
I. A. once a month. We have a manuscript
paper, which has been very good; our pro-
grammes are well carried out, and although
our numbers are small we have good meetings
and realize partially, if not fully, the import-
ance of preparing for the work which is ready
and waiting for the Saints to perform.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			NETTIE JOHNSON, Secretary.

ORANGEVILLE, EMERY CO.

	Minutes of the Third Semi-Annual Confer-
ence of the Relief Society of Emery Stake,
held at Orangeville, Aug. 1st, 1884, President
Anna U. Larson presiding. Usual opening
exercises, minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved, also statistical and financial reports for
the last half year. All the wards represented
seem to be doing well.
	Prest. Anna M. Larson spoke very encour-
agingly; pointed out the duties of the presi-
dents and teachers, also the duty of every
mother in living her religion, gathering her
little ones around, and attending to prayer in
the absence of the husband. Urged all to live
very near to their Heavenly Father; spoke of
the calamities that were coming upon the na-
tions; hoped that we would live in that way
that we may escape the judgments of God.
Advised us to love one another and cease evil
speaking.
	Sisters Joanna Childs, Ann Pulsipher and
M. Logan, also Bro. Logan and Bishop J.
Robertsen addressed the conference upon
home industry, Primary Associations, etc., all
giving good advice and expressing a desire to
do their duties in every respect.

[Column 3]
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bro. Guiman.
	Afternoon session opened with singing
Prayer by Bro. Andrew Anderson. Singing.
Sister S. A. Fullmer was the first speaker—
pointed out the necessity of every legal voter
being on hand to vote on eleetion day, though
the right of franchise had been wrested from
those who had embraced celestial marriage,
everyone who still has the privilege should not
shirk this duty, for it is our duty as much as
anything else to maintain every right that we
enjoy, for if we are negligent even this right
may be taken from us.
	A number of the brethern and sisters ad-
vanced principles that all will do well to re-
member and practice through our lives.
	A letter from Sister E. B. Wells, a portion
of which was read, was appreciated very much
indeed, for though we are deprived of the
privilege of having those sisters meet with us
at present, we are happy to hear from them.
The Spirit of the Lord was with us and all
seemed to enjoy themselves.
	Conference adjourned till the 6th of Feb.
1884, to meet at Ferron. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bro. W. Avery.
			ANNA U. LARSEN, President,
			ANNIE E. SEELY, Secretary.

PROVO, UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the Relief Society of Utah Co.,
held March 30th, 1884. Present on the stand
Counselors Mary John and Rhoda Lyman.
Visitors from the city, Sisters Snow and Horne.
Conference opened with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer. The minutes of last con-
ference read and approved. As there were no
written reports the Presidents gave short ver-
bal reports. The societies, as a general thing,
were in a flourishing condition, and wide
awake to their duties and responsibilities.
	Sister John, after speaking a short time, in-
troduced to the conference our new Counselor to
Sister Smoot—she having never met with us
before on account of ill health.
	Sister Rhoda Lyman then expressed her
pleasure at meeting with the sisters, and her
desire to help with every good work; also bore
her testimony to the truth of this Latter-day
work, and desired the faith and prayers of
all.
	Sister Horne was pleased to listen to Sister
Lyman, who was a capable woman, and who
would yet become strong and do a mighty work.
We should seek the Spirit of God, for without
it we cannot do the work that is before us.
There is enough for all to do. Although we
may not all occupy prominent positions, yet if
we are humble and enjoy the spirit of the Gos-
pel we will find favor with the Almighty; she
made other good remarks.
	Sister Snow Smith said I want to mention
one thing that has pleased me this morning.
No one has wasted time in apologizing. Blessed
Sister Lyman in her first attempt at speaking;
said the Lord would bless and strengthen her
and make her to rejoice and shout Hosanna.
The Spirit of God is in our midst—we are all
missionaries sent from the eternal worlds. If
the vail could be withdrawn and we could see
the blessings pronounced upon us before we
came here we would rejoice. We should culti-
vate the Comforter in our hearts and obey the
counsels of those in authority. We did not
come here just for our own comfort, but to do
good to others, speak a comforting word to the
sorrowing, raise up the bowed down. A fitting
word of reproof often accomplishes great good.
Gave much more good advice and counsel.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball said, I am pleased
to meet with you again after being absent from
you for some time. I have tried to faithfully
represent you wherever I have been. I never
spoke in public while away, but the chimney
corner, by the fireside, was my place for ex-


pounding the truths of Mormonism. I real-
ized more than ever my dependence upon God.
You cannot realize, without being among them,
the feelings of the world towards us as a peo-
ple. They appeared surprised to see a woman
from Utah with a pleasant countenance. They
seem to have the impression that we are sad
and oppressed. I advised them to come and
see the cheerful, noble spirits we have here. I
took a great many of our books and cards with
me, and offered them to any that would like to
read them. Some took them to read, but said
they did not expect to be converted.  I enjoyed
myself very much with the aged, and many
shed tears at parting with me.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.  Prayer by
Mother Duke.
	Afternoon session commenced as usual with
singing and prayer.  A few of the presidents
gave reports of their societies, after which Sis-
ter E. R. S. Smith spoke for a short time.  Said,
I often think we underate ourselves considering
the great work we are called upon to perform,
to assist in the salvation of the living and the
dead; to lift the curse that was placed upon
woman and bring her back to her original pos-
ition, and to assist in redeeming the earth and
lift it to its former place near to the home of
our Father. Never has woman occupied so
important a position—to purify ourselves to re-
turn back into the presence of our Father and
become joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Can we
comprehend it? How many of us to-day have
faith enough to receive our dead to life again,
or to go into a fiery furnace? Let us keep our
standing and duties before us and we will be
prepared for anything.  Let our enemies do
their worst, they cannot do more than God will
let them. There will  be a time when the sin-
ner in Zion will tremble. The priesthood has
been greatly benefited by these societies.  They
help the poor in spirit as well as in means;
by and by there will be no poor among us.
Now we have another Temple open and the
spirits in prison are rejoicing. Let us do
everything with an eye single to the glory of
God.
	Sister Horne made further remarks on
housekeeping and good cooking. Said we want
to learn all things. Teach your children
order; do not allow them to run at large;
teach them good manners, and to be truthful
and respectful, and cultivate their hearts at
home. The younger you commence the bet-
ter. What nobler work for mothers? We
do not realize this as we should. Do teach
them the ways of the Lord. Lay the founda-
tion that they may grow up strong minded and
fearless in everything that is right; set good
examples before them. A woman is noble who
makes home dear to her children—be awake
to your duties. Teach your children to vote
when they are old enough, and to esteem the
privilege. Let us not say all is well in Zion.
It is time that we arouse ourselves. Let us
never betray our trusts, but be true, that we
may inherit eternal life.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by L. W. Kimball.
				C. Daniels, Secretary.
				____

		MANTI, SOUTH WARD.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
     The Relief Society of this ward was organ-
ized February 2nd, 1882, with Sister Eliza-
beth Casto as President, Sisters Maria Jenson
and Sarah Jane Lowry, Counselors, who are
exemplary women, with the Gospel at the bot-
tom of their hearts, and ever ready to strength-
en the weak. They assist the bishop to take
care of the poor and lend a helping hand to
the sick and afflicted. We have also a num-
ber of good sisters who are willing to act as
teachers and we have no trouble to get them.
They all realize that it is a noble mission in
which they are engaged. We have quite a
number of poor and aged in this ward who
are looking for our charity, and to my knowl-
edge none are suffering for the real necessities
of life. Our means is increasing, therefore we
acknowledge the blessings of our Heavenly
Father.
	May every Relief Society throughout the
land of Zion prosper, and fulfill the charitable
duties devolving upon all, and let wisdom be
one of the counselors in each is my sincere
prayer.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
							A. R. K.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


﻿A NEW CONVERT.
				______

Editor Exponent:
	The thought came to me to write you a few
lines about the way in which the truth came
to me and how I received it.  I had never
seen a Mormon in my life that I knew to be
one.  My sister had, twenty-seven years ago,
in Australia, received the truth with her hus-
band and seven children, six sons and one
daughter.  They had gone to Utah and for
years we heard but little of them.  My sister
wrote and told me she had embraced the Mor-
mon faith, saying it was the true Gospel.  It
seemed all so strange to me.  I took the trouble
to inquire into it, feeling she must be de-
ceived.  For years I lost sight of her and her
family.
	As long as I can remember I had a desire
to know, serve and obey the living and true
God; with all my heart I longed to find Him.
I tried the Wesleyan Church, I also sought the
Lord in private prayer, and had many answers
to my prayers.  The Lord often seemed very
near to me.  I tried to walk before him blame-
less; I watched professing Christians; sought
the advise of ministers; all told me to believe
on the Lord Jesus Christ and I should be saved.
I did believe; I thought I was saved.  Who
was I to pray to, I asked, the Father, the Son,
or the Holy Spirit?  Oh!  to either, it was all
the same, I was told.
	After a while I got somewhat disgusted with
it all and left the Wesleyan church, and for
years wandered without  any guidance in the
way to heaven.  I had visions and dreams, en-
joyed much of the inflluence of the unseen
world.  No one seemed to understand me.  One
lady said I was very mythical, but in secret I
cried, “Lead me to the true and living God.”
Years passed in this way.  I had given myself
so entirely to the true and living God, and
trusted Him to make all things right, and did
not doubt but He would in His own due time.
Suddenly I heard that one of my sister’s sons
was in England on a mission.  What did it
mean?  I asked myself.  Do the Mormons send
out their messengers to England to preach?
What does it all mean?  For months I heard
of him and his work.  Some warned me of
him, others simply told me about his work; one
said, “He is very busy among us.”
	All summer passed in this way.  One, day
a letter came from my brother saying my
nephew, who had warned me of my Mormon
nephew, was won over and had been baptised
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.  This I could not understand, as he be-
longed to the Plymouth Brethren.  I really
knew not what to think.  Not having replied
to his letter of warning I took the opportunity
to write and ask him.  His answer was, yes,
dear aunt, it is true that I am baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
He went on to say, believe nothing of these
people but what they say themselves.  This
was worse and worse.  Must they sound their
own trumpet?  I thought my nephew must be
beside himself to talk in this way.
	One day I was told that Mr. Nye wanted to
see me.  (The same Mr. Nye was my Mormon
nephew, of whom I had heard so much, at the
present time president of the London Confer-
ence.)  I was pleased to see him, and to hear
of my dear sister and her family after all
these years.  The Mormon doctrine was an-
other thing.  It seemed, however, I could not
have one without the other.  He had come,
not so much to see his Aunt Fanny, as to set
the truth before her.  I could see he had come
for this purpose.  Not to listen would be to
condemn, not only him, but the Church he
came to represent, unheard, and this, I knew,
would not be wise or kind. All I wanted on
earth was to do the will, of the Almighty.  I
lifted my heart to Him to be kept, and sat
down to listen to my Mormon nephew.
	It was a wonderful story.  I was taken by
surprise, as he, with the Bible in his hand,
showed so plain that all the Christian churches
were in confusion.  I had often wondered
if Christ would find His bride in the churches
on the earth, as they said He would when He
came again.  The Holy Spirit was with me as
the Mormon Elder told it all out, putting it
the other way about, faith in God, repentance,
baptism for the remission of sins, laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.  It all
flashed upon me.  It is Scripture, I said to my-
self, and saw I should have to give up; I knew
from that hour that I must become a Latter-
day Saint, a hated Mormon; because the Lord
must have His way; I had settled that long
ago, that what the Lord made plain to me in
that I would obey Him, Little did I think
He was leading me through this gate of bap-
tism into the Mormon Church, but so it was.
I praise His Holy name.  One difficulty after
another was cleared away by the Lord’s mes-
senger, that in my innermost soul I gave way.
Not so outwardly; I must search and prove
the doctrine before acknowledging it was from
God. I must confess I shrank from the change
that it was plain to me must take place; so I
set myself prayerfully to investigate to see if
it must, indeed seeing all the while by the
light of the Holy Spirit, given in answer to
prayer, it must.  A correspondence between us
lasted some weeks, then I could hold out no
longer, and really did not wish to hold out
longer.  Question after question had been put
and answered to my satisfaction.  My patient
instructor, the Mormon Elder, had met the
longing of the depths of my inmost soul,
which had been pent up for years.  I wrote
freely, not dreaming any one but my nephew
saw what I wrote; it was best so, at least I think
so, had I thought otherwise the full pouring
out of my inmost thoughts would have
been withheld, which would not have brought
so rich a blessing.  So, dear madam, it came to
pass that I was baptized in the Serpentine,
London, on the 26th day of January, 1883,
and was confirmed the day following by the
laying on of hands.  The warm feeling of four
hands on my head came in itself as a comforter
to me.  The sisters gathered round me after- 
wards, said what a rich blessing mine was; I
was highly favored, they said; I could only re-
member the words, “May you be filled with
the Holy Spirit from the crown of your head
to the soles of your feet.” It was enough; it 
was the witness to me that all was right, being
the one thing I desired above all others, to be
filled with the Spirit of the living God.
	What a change came over me from that
hour.  I felt let into a large room.  I had not
climbed over the wall, but had gone in by the
door into the sheep-fold, where I might find
pasture; and in humbling myself before the
Lord and obeying His laws through the
Church, I find life abounding, knowledge in-
creasing on every side.
 At first the Priesthood was a little trouble
to me.  I failed to see its use.  I had always
been a little prejudiced against young ministers
from college.  What could they know? They


failed to get my confidence. The same thing
crept up about the young Elders of the Church,
but the Holy Spirit is always with me to teach
me. I spoke, also, to Elder Nye, and he put
me right. Going on obeying in all things I
find myself rejoicing in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Do I regret? No, I do not. I rejoice daily
as the Holy Spirit opens to my understanding
the wonders of eternity.
	I am superintendent of a small Female Home.
One of my assistants, who embraced the truth
with me, is now on her way to the land of Zion,
having gone with the last company of Saints.
My present assistants are one with me in the
true Gospel.		*		*		*		*
	We all hope to gather home, as we have
learned to call it, as soon as the way opens.
Others of my friends having had the truth put
before them have obeyed the laws of God, and
are looking forward to going to the Rocky
Mountain regions.
	There is no branch of the Church here, we
therefore have no meetings where we can be
taught the ways or doings of the saints. The
Elders call sometimes, and we are very glad to
see them. They stay for a night; they get re-
freshed and we get blest.
	Pardon me for taking up so much of your
valuable time.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
								F. B.


48	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM TENNESSEE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Though living in this far off land, separated
from the body of the Church comprising the
Latter-day Saints, I feel like lifting my voice
and bearing my testimony to what I believe to
be the principles of eternal truth. I am as it
were, one lone sheep off to its self, being the
only one in this county who has yet stepped
forward and taken on the whole armor of the
Gospel. And having through the kindness of
the Elders, been presented with some copies of
your valuable paper, which so nobly advo-
cates the cause of our religion, and the rights
of the down-trodden and oppressed of all na-
tions.
	I thought through its medium to let my sis-
ters know that my thoughts and heart are with
them, in the glorious work in which they are
engaged. And having cast off the sectarian
notions which I have been taught from my in-
fancy, and identified myself with that people
who are so constantly maligned and misrepre-
sented by the pulpit and press.
	I feel that their weal is my weal, and their
woe is my woe, and look forward anxiously for
the time when the so called Mormon question
which is puzzeling the wise Solons of our na-
tion at present, shall be understood as it
really exists. And having full and implicit
confidence in the truth of the old adage which
says, "Truth is mighty and will prevail," I
know that time will come, for the work is a
progressive one, from the fact that its leader is
Omnipotent; and all the combined forces of
darkness may array themselves against it, but
their efforts to stay its progress will be unavail-
ing.
	I often sit and meditate upon the blessings
that can be enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints,
if they only live for them. Gathered out and
separated from those who know not the ways of
the Lord, they are permitted to assemble them-
selves together unmolested by their enemies.
	And that spirit of kindness, which I imag-
ine is so characteristic of a people who have
learned by bitter experience that not every
one who says, "Lord Lord," are sincere in
their hearts, can be cultivated and bring them
nearer to that point of perfection that we are
striving to gain.
	Here everything is different, the wrangling

[Column 2]
sects which compose modern Christanity are
ever ready to oppose everything that does not
conform to their standard.
	And while they have a form of Godliness
they deny the power thereof, just as the Scrip-
tures have foretold, which causes division in
their midst, until they are like a ship without
a rudder drifted about at the mercy of the
wind and waves. And instead of making the
Kingdom of God their chief aim, it is a second-
ary consideration with them who seek only for
the praise of their fellow man, forgetting that
the broad road is the one leading to destruc-
tion, and many there be who go in thereat.
	For my part I prefer the narrow way which
leads to the tree of life, even though its path-
way be thorny at the start, yet the satisfaction
we will have in partaking of its fruits will
more than compensate for the trials we have to
undergo in reaching it.
	By taking a retrospective view of the past
we can see how the truth has always been
received by the majority of the human family.
We need only to look at the days of Noah,
Lot, Daniel, Jeremiah, our Savior and His
Apostles, to convince ourselves that the emis-
aries of Satan have always opposed it, and
if the words of the Apostle Paul be true we
may expect the future to bring the same re-
sults; for he made the emphatic declaration
that all that will live Godly in Christ Jesus
shall suffer persecution.
	Then let us be thankful that we are permit-
ted to live in this day and age of the world,
when the Gospel is restored to the earth once
more, and that we have been the recipients
of it.
	Then, dear sisters, let us live our religion, re-
gardless of the threats and sheers we have to
meet. I feel that I would love to take the
sisters of Utah by the hand and express to
them the feelings my pen is incapable of do-
ing justice to, and receive from them words
of comfort that would cheer me in my lonely
position.
	Hoping and praying that truth may tri-
umph in its onward march and overcome error
and shine forth as brightly as the stars in the
firmament, I will close by asking an interest in
the prayers of my sisters, and all lovers of
righteousness, I subscribe myself,
	Your sister in the covenant of peace,
					ELIZABETH SEALS.


ITEMS ON BIBLE TRANSLATION.
				_____

	To all lovers of truth and the original text it
is annoying to have ancient works, and especial-
ly the Scriptures, translated wrong, to know
that what we read is, perhaps, not true.
	There has been many translations of the
Bible, but all have contained some mistakes; it
estimated that the present accepted translation,
King James, contains some thousands. In the
New Testament, revised A D 1881, the altera-
tions made in the Gospels and Acts are 14,601
by actual count; while in the whole volume the
total number of changes are 36,191. I think the
meaning of the sentences have not been altered,
but only the phraseology; as for instance, the
41st verse in the 6th chapter of St. John, as giv-
en in King James, reads, “The Jews then mur-
mured at Him because He said, I am the break
which came down from heaven.”  In the revis-
ed version it is rendered, “The Jews therefore
murmured concerning Him because He said, I
am the broad which came out of heaven.
	The old translation is preferred by many as
the quotations are familiar, besides many of the
ideas being more beautifully expressed.
	I have compared some facts of the New Testa-
ment, old and revised versions, with the Book
of Mormon, and the latter is almost identical
with the old version, a few sentences being more
plainly expressed. This may be proved by com-
paring the fifth, sixth and seventh chapters of
St. Matthew with pages five to nine of the re-
vised version, and in the Book of Mormon,
Christ’s instructions to the Nephites when He
visited them, the part in question beginning on
page 459, second European Edition. 
					ANNIE FELLOWS.


For Sale at this Office
	BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER Nos. 1 and 2, 		25c per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c	"
POEMS by E.R. Snow, Vol. 1			$1.00 "
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1. 25 "
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	george A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth $1.25, in morocco		1.50		"
_____________________________________________________

				   DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I
	SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
	OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
	Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Resident Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
	Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communiation between Office and Residence
_____________________________________________________

			ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
						____

					    Z. C. M. I.

			       SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
	IMPORTERS AND BJOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

			We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
_____________________________________________________

				   Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes
	112, 114,116, 118 East Temple Street.
Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

