VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1885	NO. 16.


IMPROMPTU

	"She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she
reacheth forth her hand to the needy."—PROV., xxxl.

I pray that health and strength be given,
	And worldly wealth to thee;
For well I know the breath of heaven
To thee in zephyr waves are given,
	That blessed the poor may be.

Long may you live, dear friend of mine,
	To bless the drooping heart.
To shed the balm of love divine,
That widow's hearts may "rise and shine,"
	And feel  you life impart.

Yes, 'tis a blessed boon to give,
	And blessed to receive;
And poor indeed must be the soul
That cannot own the sweet control
	That cometh as a blest reprieve
To bid the dying lives.

May many happy years be thine
	On this our mother earth;
Thy children rise and call thee blest,
Thy husband's soul upon the rest,
Thy "works within the gates" exprest,
	Thy presnce scattering dearth,
The hand of friendship here relates—
"Thy works shall praise thee in the gates."
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, New Year's day, 1885.

	CORCORAN ART GALLELRY.

	The Curator said he could not tell, as he
had never kept track, of the comparative at-
tendance of men and women; but they did keep
account of the number of persons who visited
the Art gallery daily.  "On cloudy or rainy
days," he said, "if my memory serves me right,
we have a greater number of ladies than gen-
tlemen in attendance; on fine and pleasant days
there is an apparent preponderance of males.
I suppose, however, they balance each other
about equally in the end.  No, I can't say I
am able to account for the more general atten-
dance of ladies on dull days, unless it is that
they do not feel as much like walking and vis-
iting outside places of attraction; but if that
were so, one would think the rule should hold
good with regard to men also; but the reverse
is the case, for they come mainly when the day
is a pleasant one.  Without wishing to speak
lightly of the art taste and art admiration of
the ladies," continued the gentleman, "I muse
state that the men show better judgement, or
taste, or whatever you may call it, in the choict
of a day to visit the gallery than the ladies do,
The success of a picture, its life—or it fidelity.
which is the same thing—depends upon the
light by which it is seen.  A cloudy day may
be calculated to help some pictures, but a vast
majority are painted for a full light, and should
be seen in such a light to be seen well.  Since
the object of viewing a painting must be for
plesaure, it seems strange that ladies (usually
so particular about enjoying the full sense of
pleasure which anything calculated to add to
the sum of human happiness can produce)
should be not only so willing to put up with
an indifferent measure in the pleasure of view-
ing pictures, but really seem to prefer the les-
ser joy.  I can't understand it, for anyone who
has seen a picture by a poor light and then be-
held it when the light was so arranged as to
bring out, every touch of the artist's genius,
must have felt within himself they were differ-

[Column 2]
ent paintings—certainly different in the high-
est degree, in the power of each to promote
pleasurable sensations through the medium of
the eye.  But, then, the ladies seem to prefer
it, bless their dear, sweet faces, and I suppose
that fact should make me happy; but somehow
I am never fully satisfied until I know the full
measure of the cup of joy has been drained by
everyone who loves art as it is shown in paint-
ing and sculpture."
	He did not mak an oration to the above ef-
fect, but he said as much in the course of some
conversation had with him while I was visiting
the Corcoran Art Gallery, on Pennsylvania
Avenue, Washingon. While it is one of the
youngest, it is also conceded to be one of the
best art galleries in the United States, and in
it are master pieces of modern art in painting
and productions from the easels of many of the
most noted of recent painters, which are so
characteristic of the authors as to give to the
attentive observer a clear idea of the peculiar
style of "individualness" of each.  Strive to
overcome the feeling however much I may, my
heart runs involuntarily to landscape painting,
so much so that I find it difficult to give a
passing glance to portrait painting, even of
characters well known and prominent in the
world's history.  Thus, were reference to the
more notable works displayed, possibly that
reference would not be an impartial one, and
consequently could not be satisfactory.  How-
ever, as each work of art is by an author who
has peculiar and distinctive charactersitics
(even though it may not be as attractive as
some others), it is nevertheless, to a very large
extent, full of interest as a study and as show-
ing the style of the artist.
	I cannot resist, however, a passing notice or
two—one of "Charlotte Corday," the other "On
the Coast of New Jersey."  The former is a
most impressive one, in a variety of ways.  It
is by Charles Louis Muller, known by his "Roll
Call" of the victims of the guillotine during
the first French Revolution.  Muller has won
three medals, was, or is, an officer of the Legion
of Honor, and a member of the Institute of
France.  I do not believe it possible that lan-
guage can be made to give expression to the
strange, the pervading, the potent feelings this
picture produced in me.  It was a fascination,
from the effect of which, though it is sometime
since seen, I have not yet recovered.  The pic-
ture shows the heroine of the Revolution in pris-
on, after the killing of the blood-thirsty Marat.
She leans wearily against the prison bars, her
head resting on one hand, while the fingers of
the other hold the pen with which she has just
been writing the most touching and noble let-
ter to her father.  Her eyes are raised to the
light and the pose of the figure conspires with
the rare expression of the face, to produce a
powerful impression of weariness and resigna-
tion.  The face is a remarkable one.  It is full
of character and determination.  A nobility
of purpose gives a radiance and glorifies it to
an extent almost incomprehensible.  And yet
it is tender and fair and sweet, so surpassingly
sweet that the heart is drawn towards it irre-
sistibly and melts into a moving sympathy,
which, while it saddens, compels admiration
and fills the hearts of those who have read her
story with high purposes and noble resolves.
Though the expression is one of weariness and
sadness unutterable, there is absolutely want-
ing the slightest tinge of regret; and no saint
ever seemed more serene in awaiting the com

[Column 3]
ing judgement which follows the dissolution of
earthly ties, than does Charlotte Corday as
Muller has divinely told her story.
	The gallery was filled with ladies the last
morning I was there—it was a dull day—and
the painting seemed to have the same fascina-
tion for all who looked upon it.  I could not
forget it if I would; I would not if I could.
	The other, "On the coast of New Jersey,"
was a surprise.  There were other picturea of
greater charm, more enchanting by far; but
this one, different as human intellect can ima-
gine from that of Corday, till possessed  the
same element of focring atention and of draw-
ing the spectator towards it with an indefinite
longing.  It produced a sensation of rest,
which one cared neither to break nor to resist.
It can hardly be called a seashore scene; it is
marine to a marvellous degree.  The foreground
shows a long, level, sandy beach, with a gen-
tle and unbroken decline into the ocean's
depths.  From the breakers to the very point
are a succession of eddies, or waves, lessening
in depth and force as they run up the beach,
till the nearest one the eye can see, glides, or
seems to glide, playfully along the silvered
sands, breaking into a myriad ripples laughing
in the sunlight, each freighted with its tiny
white air bubble.
	Away to the back, far as the eye can reach,
until the ocean and the over-arching sky seem
to mingle, the green of the ocean stretches,
growing smoother and smoother with each re-
move, until the great distance produces an end-
less and unbroken stretch of green wave, as
calm and placid to the watching eye as the
liquid depths of a summer sky.  Far in the dis-
tance a solitary white sail is seen, nearer a lone
sea gull skims over the breakers.  Save these,
there is not a thing, animate or inanimate, but
the endless width of wave and sea.  And yet
it is marvellously full of interest; it excites ad-
miration; the eye loves to linger on it, and all
the while a soft and insinuating sense of soli-
tude and rest permeates the whole being.  It
is a marvellous work.  It is by W. S. Rich-
ards, who, while he had devoted his rare talents
to landscape painting for some years, ultimate-
ly found that his genius lay in the handling of
marine subjects.
	There are any number of others which one
could love to dwell upon and find pleasure and
satisfaction in such a crude, uncomely and im-
perfect description as the above; but life is too
short, and the number all too great.  To go to
Washington, however, and not visit the Corco-
ran Art Gallery, is to wrong oneself.
	There are deparments for sculpture, con-
taining original casts and copies of the most
renowned pieces of art, ancient and modern.
magnificent porcelain vases, lacquered, bas re-
liefs, bronze statues and bronze in various
forms, framents of marble figures, and other
things coming properly within the scope of a
first class art gallery.
	The Coreoran Gallery of Art, including
grounds, building, its contents and endowment
given is the free gift of Mr. W. W. Coreoran to
the public.  It was deeded to a board of trus-
tees May 10, 1869, the deed stating that it was
designed for the encouragement of the fine arts,
and "as the perpetual establishment and en-
couragement of painting, sculpture and the
fine arts generaly; that it should be opened to
visitors without charge two days a week, and
on other days at moderate and reasonable
charges, etc."  The institution was chartered


by Congress May 24, 1870, and declared
exempt from rent.
	January 19, 1874, it was opened, or that
portion of it embracing the Picture Galleries,
Octagon Room, and the Hall of Bronzes.  April
29, 1874, the Halls of Sculpture and Bronzes
were opened, and in Dec. of the same year two
side galleries of sculpture were also opened.
	The gallery is now opened free three days a
week, and three days an admission fee of 25 cts
is charged.	R.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	"On Friday night, November 1st, a party of
the mob proceeded to attack a branch of the
Church at the prairie, about twelve or fifteen
miles from the village.  Two of their number
were sent in advance as spies, namely, Robert
Johnson and one Harris, arrived with two
guns and three pistols. They were discovered
by some of the Saints, and without the least
injury being done them, said Johnson struck
P. P. Pratt with the breach of his gun over
the head; after which they were taken and de-
tained till morning, which, it was believe[-],
prevented a general attack of the mob that
night.  In the morning they were liberated
without receiving the least injury.  The same
night another party in Independence com-
menced stoning houses, breaking down doors
and windows, and destroying furniture, etc.
This night the brick part of the dwelling
house of A. S. Gilbert was partly pulled down
and the windows of his dwelling broken in
with brickbats and rocks, while a gentleman
stranger lay sick with a fever in kis house.
The same night three doors of the store of
Messrs. Gilbert & Whitney were split open;
and after midnight the goods lay scattered in
the street, such as calicoes, handkerchiefs
shawls, cambrics, etc.
	"An express came from the village after mid-
night to a party of their men who had embod-
ied about a half a mile from the village for
the safety of their lives, stating that a mob was
tearing down houses and scattering the goods
of the store in the streets.  The main body of
the mob fled at the appearance of this com-
pany.  (I think this company were the men who
had gathered at our house that I mentioned
before.)” The same night some of the houses
had long poles thrust through the shutters and
sashes into the rooms of defenseless women and
children, from whence their husbands and
fathers had been driven by the dastardly at-
tacks of the mob, which were made by ten, fif-
teen or twenty men at a time.
	"Saturday, Nov. 2nd, all the families of the
Saints in the village moved half a mile out,
with most of their goods, and embodied to the
number of thirty for the preservation of life
and personal effects.  This night a party from the
village met a party from the west of the Blue,
a river, and made an attack upon a branch of
the Church located at the Blue, about six miles
from the village; here they tore the
roof from on dwelling and broke open 
another house and found the owner,
David Bennett, sick in bed, whom they
beat most inhumanly, swearing they would
blow out his brains, they discharged a pistol,the
ball ot which cut a deep gash across the top of
his head.  In this skirmish a young man of the
mob was shot in the thigh, but by which party
remains yet to be determined.
	"The next day, Sunday, Nov. 3rd, four of
the Church, Joshua Lewis, Hiram Page, and
two others, were despatched for Lexington to
see the circuit judge and obtain a peace war-
rant.  Two called on Esq. Silver, who refused

[Column 2]
to issne one on account, as he has declared, of
his fears of the mob.  This day many of the citi-
zens,professing friendship,advised the Saints to
clear from the county as speedily as possible,
for Saturday night’s affray had enraged the
whole county, and they were determined to
come out on Monday and murder indiscrimi-
nately; and in short, it was proverbial among
the mob, "Monday would be a bloody day.”
	"Monday came,and a large party of the mob
gathered at the Blue, took the ferry boat be-
longing to the Church, threatened lives, etc.
But they soon abandoned the ferry and went
to Wilson’s store about a mile west of the Blue.
Word had previously gone to a branch of the
Church several miles west of the Blue that the
mob was destroying property on the east side of
the Blue,and the sufferers there wanted help to
preserve their lives and property.  Nineteen men
volunteered and started for their assistance, but
discovering fifty or sixty of the mob had gath-
ered at Wilson’s they turned back.  At this
time two small boys passed on their way to
Wilson’s, who gave information to the mobbers
that the Mormons were on the road west of
them; between forty and fifty immediately
started with guns in pursuit.  After riding
about two or two and a half miles they discov-
ered them, when the company of nineteen  im-
mediately dispersed and fled in different direc-
tions. The mob hunted for them, turning their
horses into a cornfield belonging to the Saints;
searching their cornfields and houses, threat-
ening women and children that they would pull
down their houses and kill them if they did
not tell where the men had fled.  Thus they
were employed, hunting the men and threat-
ening the women, until a company of thirty of
the Saints from the prairie, armed with seven-
teen guns, made their appearance.  The former
company of nineteen had dispersed and fled,
and but one or two bad returned to take part
in the subsequent battle.
	"On the approach of the latter company of
thirty men, some of the mob cried, "Fire, God
d—n you, fire.” Two or three guns were
then fired by the mob, which were returned by
the other party without loss of time.  This
company is the same that is represented by the
mob as having gone forth in the evening of the
battle bearing the olive branch of peace.  The
mob retreated early after the first fire, leaving
their horses in Whitmer’s cornfield;two of their
number, Hugh L. Brareal and Thomas Lin-
vill, died on the ground.  Thus fell H. L. Bra-
real, one who had been heard to say, "With
ten fellows, I will wade to my knees in blood,
but I will drive the Mormons from Jackson
Co.” The next morning the corpse of said
Brareal was discovered on the battle ground
with a gun by his side.  Several were wounded
on both sides, but none mortally, except one
Barber, on the part of the Saints, who expired
the next day. 
	"This battle was fought about sunset, Mon-
day, Nov. 4, and on the same night runners
were despatched in every direction under the
pretence of calling out the militia; spreading
as they went every rumor calculated to alarm
and excite the unwary, such as, the Mor-
mons had taken Independence, and the Indians
had surrouuded it, and they being colleagued
together, etc. 

	The same evening, Nov. 4, not being satis-
fied with breaking open the store of Gilbert &
Whitney, and demolishing a part of the dwell-
ing of said Gilbert the Friday night previous,
they permitted Mc.Carty, who was detected on
Friday night as one of the breakers of the
store doors, to take out a warrant and arrest
the said Gilbert and others of the Church for
a pretended assault, and false imprisonment of
Mc.Carty. Late in the evening, while the conrt
was in progress with their trial in the court,
house, a gentleman unconnected with the

[Column 3]
court, as was believed, perceiving the prisoners
to be without counsel and in imminent danger,
advised Gilbert and his brethren to go to jail
as the only alternative to save life, for the
north door was already barred and an infuria-
ted mob thronged the house with a determina-
tion to beat and kill; but through the interpo-
sition of this gentleman (Samuel C. Owens,
Clerk of the County Court, whose name will
appear more fully hereafter) said Gilbert and
four of his brethren were committed to the
county jail of Jackson Co., the cell of which
must have been a palace compared with the
court room, where dignity and mercy were
strangers; naught but the wrath of man in
horrid threats stifled the ears of the prisoners.


THE DISTINGUISHED DEAD OF 1884.

     "Of the multitude who have gone over to the
majority during the past year there are the
usual number of prominent characters in state
and church, literature and the professions.  The
eloquence of Wendall Phillips has been stilled
before the silver tongue had lost its magic
power, and with him his fellow philanthropists,
Herr Lasker, the German Liberal, and Kes-
hub Chunder Sen., the remarkable East Indian
promoter of the Brahmo-Somaj.  Of public
men in active life this country loses Secre-
tary Folger, Senator Anthony, ex-Secretary
Hunt (minister to Russia) Judge Noah Swayne,
Augustus Schell, John J. Sisco, and President 
John W. Garrett, of the Baltimore and Ohio
road.  Of an older generation were Charles
O'Conor, the once famous jurist, J. Watson
Webb, Royal Phelps, all of New York; Reuben
R Springer, of Cincinnati, The more promi-
nent journalists of the lists are Thomas Chenery,
editor of the London Times: Thomas Kinsella,
of the Brooklyn Eagle; George W. Danielson,
of the Providence Journal; Wilbur F. Storey,
of the Chicago Times; Dr. Sanford D. Hunt, of
the Newark Advertiser; Gen. James Watson
Webb, ex-editor of the New York Courier and
Inquirer, and with these may be included Isaac
Henderson, F.J. Ottarson, Thomas Maguire,
Mary Clemmer, Jane G. Swisshelm and Mrs.
Anna Ottendoffer.  The most noted name in
literature is that of Charles Reade, who will be
remembered long after the world has forgetten
that an English Prince named Leopold died
about the same time.  Of eminent clergymen,
Bishop Simpson, Bishop Clarkson, of Nebraska;
Bishop Kavanack, of the Methodist Episcopal
church South; Bishop Wiley, Chinese mission-
ary; the Rev. Lawrence Walsh, of Rhode Island,
treasurer of the land league, and the Rev.
Henry Morgan, of Boston.  Other names not
to be overlooked are those of Eugene Rouher,
French statesman; Bastien Lepalge, Gen. Tod-
leben, of Russia; Midhat Pasha, Judah P. Ben-
jamin, Sir Bartle Frere, Samuel Ward, Wil-
liam Anson Wood, Henry C. Work, Mrs. Far-
ragut, Brignoli, Maria Taglioni, Cetewayo,
Hans Makart, Fanny Elssler, Charles Eenno
Hoflman, Profs.  Packard and Williams, of
Yale; Abbott, of Harvard, and Guyot, of
Princeton, and Taylor, of Andover; Commodore
Hunt, Gen. Weitzel, and not least the Russian
banker, von Stieglitz, worth &76,000,000."


"Whatever I know," wrote Frederick Deni-
son Maurice in 1840 to his wife, "except as to
its outward expression, has come to me much
more from women than men; I am certain they
have taught me the deepest wisdom."
     "A benevolent lady in New York runs a home
especially for cash girls.  She began two years
ago in a little parlor with five or six girls, and
has since so enlarged her work that in the last 
year she entertained and assisted 2,500 chil-
dren and young sales-girls."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS.

ADDRESSED TO THE SUNDAY SCHOOL CHILDREN OF
TEMPE.

Little children, do you know
Why upon this Christmas day,
In a month of storm and snow,
When rought winds the wildest blow,
Human hearts are light and gay?

Why with gift, and smile, and song,
From the dawning's early grey,
We the passing hours prolong,
Giving love, forgiving wrong,
Till the light has passed away?

Why the rich, with generous hand,
Give good gifts to those in need
And a spirit through the land
Bids each passing brother stand—
Giving each to each "God speed!"

Why the proud head boweth low,
And each heart grows tender when
Voices on the night air ring,
And glad choirs the anthem sing,
"Peace on earth, good will to men!"

Eighteen hundred years ago,
Waiting shepherds saw a star,
Leading with a steady glow
To a stable poor and low,
Drawing men's hearts from afar

To that low and lonely shed,
Where the cattle, gentle eyed,
All unconscious stood and fed,
While the precious moments sped,
And the gates of heaven thrown wide—

Saw the son, the prince of power,
Helpless as a fledgeling dove,
Lower in his natal hour
Than the serf with Slavery's dower,
He, the Lord of peace and love.

Thus the earth received her king,
This the welcome that they gave
One who brought salvation near,
Burst the bands of sin and fear,
Won the victory o'er the grave.

Little children, ye have read
How He lived, the truths He taught;
How He walked by Galilee;
How men loved with Him to be,
And their babes the mothers brought;

How He took them in His arms,
Blessed and spoke the sweet decree,
While each sould was touched and stirred,
And the people wond'ring heard,
"Let the children come to me."

Follow Him, each little one,
Follow to that upper fold;
When your life's great work is done,
When your earthly course is run,
May your names with His be [-]old.

MIILICENT.
Tempe.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN IN THE PROFESSIONS.

	WASHINGTON, Jan. 1, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:  	
	“An important step—one which will exeite
considerable interest in as well as out of the
medical profession—has been resolved upon by
the Columbian University of Washington city.
At a special meeting of the board of officers of
that institution, upon the unanimous recom-
mendation of the faculty of its medical de-
partment, they decided to admit women to the
study of medicine in the university, with all
the privileges of instruction in that branch of
education now accorded male students. This
action, it is stated, is due in a large measure to
the earnest and persistent efforts of a number
of ladies who have attended the medical lec-
tures since the beginning of the current schol-
astic term, one of whom is the daughter of a
celebrated physician of Washington. Two

[Column 2]
others are of the faculty of a well known female
seminary. The unanimity of the faculty of
the medical department in recommending this
innovation is noticeable, and evidences that the
profession of this city recognize the demands of
public opinion in this direction.”
	The following brief editorial comment from
the Washington Post on the action of the fac-
ulty, is pertinent; but as showing the approba-
tion with which that action is meeting, and on
account of the ever-widening sentiment that all
other things being equal, women should enjoy
every privilege which is an inheritance of
men.
	“The action of the trustees of the Colum-
bian University of this city in opening the
medical department of that institution to
women students as well as men is to be com-
mended. It is following in the line of pro-
gress which leads to a fuller emancipation of
womanhood from unnatural and oppressive
restraints, opens the way to an avocation for
the successful pursuits of which in many of its
branches the sex is peculiarly well-fitted, and
thrusts aside another of the antiquated preju-
dices which have so long shut in its face the
doors of professional life. Wherever the in-
novation has been made the results are bene-
ficent. It will not be many years before the
justice of the principle and the wisdom of its
practice will be universally acknowledged.”
	“Columbia University, it appears, is but fol-
lowing in the steps of Howard University,
which has thrown, its doors open to female stu-
dents since 1869. The first female physician
ever graduated in the District of Columbia
was Dr. Mary D. Spackman in 1872. Dr.
Mary A. Parsons, of Colebrook, N. H., fol-
lowed in 1874, and in 1877, Francis S. Hillyer,
Grace Roberts, and Eunice P. Shadd, the last
named colored, were given diplomas. Mary
E. Hart, Juliet G. Shearer, Anna W. Mc.Cor-
mick, Mary L. Wooster, and Nannie Stafford,
the last a colored resident of Elizabeth, N. J.,
were the later graduates. There are now six
female students and eleven colored men in the
medical classes," showing the cosmopolitan and
Catholic custom which now prevails in educa-
tional matters. It is also indicative of the
spirit that is at work everywhere and which
must result, ultimately, in opening to woman
every avenue for emyloyment that man enjoys ,
and every distinction and honor—political, so-
cial or educational—which superiority in these
directions and in the battle of life may justly
entitle her to. It is a little strange that people
must ever be educated to giving justice to their
fellow creatures who have been held by custom
in what may have been considered a subordi-
nate sphere; but it is nevertheless true. It
seems such a palpable, such a self-evident
proposition that woman should enjoy every-
thing that the same talents possessed by man
would win for him,  A man should be
ashamed to take advantage of the base customs
prevailing to retain himself in position and
power, lest it might be wrested from him by a
woman. If man were what that word should
imply, he would be too proud, too manly to de-
ny to woman an equal chance iu all spheres,
and let the better and the more talented prove
victorious.
	The old fol-de-rol, clap trap chatter about
superiority of the male sex is falling into such
ignoble repute that a man who pretends to
be fair, or just, or to possess any breadth of
thought, dare not advance it. Only the ignor-
ant creature,who is coward enough to abuse his
wife, makes use longer of that assertion—
which, at one time, or for some unaccountable
reason, was actually called an “argument.”
Nor is there a less rapid decrease in the num-
ber of those who, as an irrefutable argument,
point to the fact that so few women have been
distinguished for learning, or in other direc

[Column 3]
tions once considered exclusively masculine,
walks,.as placing them in an invulnerable posi-
tion, from which they may perpetually shout
“Woman, as we have shown, is intellectually
incapacitated by nature for competition with
men in the pursuits of life.” If incapacitated
by nature, why fear competition? That very
declaration, broad and bold as it appears to be,
is the certain and unmistakable evidence that
men do fear, and are unmanly enough to let
that fear force them into the ignoble attitude
of employing the strong arm of existing power
to keep women out of the ranks of competi-
tion.
	I am not one of those who run wild on the
woman question; and I must say there are
some things I view with much more patience
than a lot of women gathering together for the
ostensible purpose of arousing women, but who
do little else than abuse men and the existing
ways of men. There must be something better
and more ennobling in the woman suffrage
cause than this; and this being true, for heav-
en’s sake let woman be true to herself, and
show that she is worthy her own cause, that she
seeks the bettering of her race, the elevation
of her own sex, and that advocacy of these
ideas docs not necessarily involve a perpetual
abuse of men.
	If woman wants to vote, and has all the
qualifications that are required of man, then
let her vote; If there is any position on earth
to which she aspires, and by using the same
means that men employ she can gratify that
ambition, then let her secure it; but for her
own sake let her drop this incessant, intermin-
able and absolutely useless crying about men’s
tyranny, domineering, and what not.
	On the 20th of this month the women hold
a national convention here, when a number of
the most noted of the sex—politically and
otherwise—will hold forth and discuss the wo-
man’s suffrage situation. When that event
transpires there may be something of interest
to tell your readers.
	If the Washington ladies are not remarkable
for the percentage of beauties to the female
population, they are remarkable for the neat-
ness, the surpassing neatness of their we ring
apparel. They always look lovely.
	Bangles, bracelets are the rage, to the dis-
carding of the old fashioned ones—one for each
arm, and both alike. A lady will wear two
or three on one arm. Diamond earrings,
diamond finger rings, diamond bracelets and
diamond pins abound. They are worn on the
street, in the house, and everywhere. A sin-
gle bud or a few flowers is not sufficient;a nese-
gay of enormous size, such as ladies would
consider ordinarily as out of all proportion for
a hand bouquet, are now worn midway be-
tween the waist and bosom. They are not ar-
tificial, but made up mainly of tea roses. On
a fine day Pennsylvania Avenue is literally
crowded with ladies splendidly attired, and a
majority of them adorned with the bouquets
referred to above. The avenue, for square
after square, is filled with that delightful, per-
vading and insinuating odor peculiar to tea
roses.
	Everything in the upper classes is on wheels,
reception parties and calls, to which some men
submit with becoming grace, and which are the
delight of that “fashionable dude,” by courtesy
called the young gentleman of society.
ROVER.


Miss Susan Fenimore Cooper is educating or-
phan children in industrial occupations in
Cooperstown, N. Y.

	Lady Dufferin raised £10,000 for charity in
a single year, and managed its distribution.
She devotes much of her time to work for the
poor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  [-]ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price pf nine. Advertising 
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to	
	Publisher	WOMAN'S EXPONENT,	
	Salt Lake City Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1885.


[Column 1]
THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE.

	Any one who pauses in the steady treadmill
of life to reflect for one moment must come to
the conclusion that this is an eventful period of
time.  Earthquakes, wars, accidents of all kinds,
disturbances of the elements of nature on the
land and on the sea—all these things,and others
combined, to the p ophetic mind portend some
still greater manifestation or culmination at no
distant time in the unknown future. Those
who read the Scriptures, particularly those in-
spirational books, Isaiah, Jeremiah and Malachi,
have the interpretation of the day and age in
which we live unfolded before them as clearly
as one can see his own face in a mirror. Those
who shut their eyes and harden their hearts may
not see and understand these things, but they
will awaken one day to the full reality.
	Many are disposed to meet you with such
reasonings as these: “O it is only a repetition of
past history, and there have always been wars
and desolation and famine and oppression, and
therefore time will continue to run its course,
and there is nothing greater to be expected than
what has been.”
	The Latter-day Saint knows better, and can-
not help seeing how ominous are these signs of
the last days that are now transpiring before the
very eyes of those who are taking an active
part in the great drama that is only the prelude
to the tragedy that will follow, in which all na-
tions and kingdoms that exist will have a promi-
nent part.
	One of the p[-]edictions of the Apostles in re-
gard to the signs of the times, was, that knowl-
edge should increase in the earth; this is cer-
tainly coming to pass now.  There never was a
time when knowledge and science had reached
the height it has in the present day.  Every day
some new truth is developed that will advance
man still further towards that which it
seems to be his ambition to attain to, viz.,
a knowledge of all things in heaven and on
earth. But God has set bounds that man in 
his pride and glory cannot circumvent. 
	The recent earthquakes in S[-]a[-]n and the sub-
marine roarings in the Atlantic have set some
people thinking of the possible an[-] prob b[-]e de-
struction of that old country, where in former
days the Inquisition flourished, striking terror to
all hearts.  The record of its cruelty is, perhaps,
unsurpassed in history.  Italy, too, has a history
almost as terrible in this respect, and la belle
France is not far behind.  Who can read the
history of these countries and not feel that judg-
ments must await them.
	T[-]e Scriptures say the earth shall reel to and
fro like a drunken man, and men’s hearts shall
fail them for fear, and so on.  That cities and
even countries will be sunk in the sea is some-
thing that may be looked for with certainty in
 ulfillment of prophecy.  To be prepared for the

[Column 2]
great events that are transpiring and about to
take place in the earth,is what is most necessary 
for those who are now living, for it will be a
terrible ordeal to pass through with those who
are living on the earth when these things come 
to pass.
	Even now the newspapers are so full of
horrors,that one’s nerves want bracing to be able
to read the accounts of fires, murders, suicides, 
and other horrors with which the columns are
filled.	
	The present condition of America,“the land of
the free and the home of the brave,” is not so
pleasant to gaze upon, as the anticipations of her
people would fain have imagined, for the Con-
stitution, once the pride and boast of her sons
and daughters, seems to be trampled upon by
those whose duty it is to uphold it. Many think
now that a new admistration under a democratic 
President will turn the tide of affairs and “every
wrong will be righted,"but time will prove. It is
devoutly to be hoped for, but not to be expected
judging from the past history of that party. 
	In Utah there may be some little hope from a
change of officials, at least it will afford time for
people to catch their breath. However, it gives
one pleasure to be able to chronicle a decision of
any kind in the Federal Courts fovorable to the 
people here, or that portion of them who have 
made this part of the United States habitable.
Judge Zane in his decision rendered on the 
Seventh Ward school question did himself great
credit. Looking all the ground over rationally 
one could not but reach the same conclusion
that Judge Zane did, if testimony were taken as
evidence, but this people have so often had ad- 
verse decisions given in cases where the testi- 
mony was as clear as day light in their favor,
that it is no wonder it took some people a little
by surprise when that decision was given.
	There are some important decisions yet to be
given that this people are wa ching with the
greatest interest; not that it will effect in the 
least the principlss they hold, or the opinions
expressed, but it will decide some matters more
important than the lives and practices of pri-
vate individuals. The fate of this nation depends
greatly upon whether it will sustain and main-
tain the principle of religious liberty and freedom
not only in thought or belief, but in actual
practice. God gave the constitution of this
country by inspiration, and He put it into the
hearts of the forefathers of this blessed country
to make the provision they did for securing re-
ligious liberty, which is not merely an idea, but
a fact and a principle, from which man cannot
depart without involving fearful consequences.


[Column 1]
	HOME AFFAIRS.

	We acknowledge with thanks the receipt of
several interesting documents from Washington,
by the courtesy of our delegate; "Message of the
[----] the United States," "Report of the
Utah Commission," and "Special report of the
Utah Commission to the Secretary of the Inte-
r[-]," speech of Hon. Joseph E. Brown of
Georgia, delivered in the Senate of the United
States, May 27th, 1884, entitled, "Polygamy in
Utah and New England contrasted."
	We learn from Mrs. M A. Freeze, who at-
tended the lecture given under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Seventh Ward, by Dr.
Margaret C. Shipp, that the subject treated up-
on in  her lecture was one that shoul[-] interest
all young women. She ought to b[-] invited to
give her lectures to women only, in each of the
several wards.  It would be a great benefit if
the girls and young women were better and
more thoroughly instructed in the matters
which pertian to their life and health, and to
maternity.

[Column 2]
	From the Juvenile Instructor Office we have
received recently a pamphlet, entitled, "Blood-
Atonement."  An address delivered in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt Lake City,
October 12th, 1884, by Elder Charles W. Pen-
rose, and reported stenographically by John
Irvine. The enemies of the Latter-day Saints
have had a great deal to say upon this subject,
and have published the most wicked accusations
against leading men in the Church, willfully ac-
cusing them of the vilest and foulest deeds,
whereas the belief of this people is diametrical-
ly opposed to the shedding of blood.  To all peo-
ple seeking information on this subject we
would recommend this little book. Price 25 cts.
It is a direct and complete refutation of the
malicious calumnics used to destroy the charac-
ters of the Latter day Saints.
	Two handsome pictures hang on our walls re-
ceived from the large mercantile firm of Z. C.
M. I.  They have been prepared expressly as a
decorative advertisement, and certainly are
artistic in design and coloring.  Each has a
calendar so on each day in the month and each
month in the year when one refers to the calen-
dar on the wall, one is reminded of the whole-
sale and retail establishments of Z. C. M. I.,
where they can always purchase the best quality
of all varieties of goods at the most reasonable
rates.  Ladies can buy there fancy as well as
staple groceries, glass, china and silver ware.
Fancy dress goods in all styles, ribbons, scarfs, 
shawls, laces, gloves, hosiery, shoes of the best
quality.  A room has been fitted up where a lady
can feel perfectly comfortable to try a shoe on.
There have been a number of desirable changes
made in the inside arrangement of goods during
the past year, and a decided improvement is the
result.  Everybody trades at Z. C. M. I.  They
carry the largest stock of goods of any wholesale
house in the Western Interior.
	Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines of this city recently
sent to England an elegant piano scarf embroid-
ered by her own hands, that was exhibited at
the Ladies Fair in London during the holiday
season, and mentioned in the London papers,
and it was greatly admired there, and some
of the ladies stated that it was handsome
enough to exhibit for charity.  It was an elabor-
ate and artistic piece of handiwork.  The ma-
terial was very fine, wine colored satin finished
at the ends with plush of the same color.  It
was embroidered at one end in  pincushion cac-
tus, cream color, the pattern very natural indeed
as if you could pluck them; among other flowers,
at the other end, Scotch Thistles;  the most per-
fect you could posibly imagine.  The middle
part was worked in waterlilies with roses, very
natural, and the most beautiful pansies; in the
centre was a lovely spray of wild roses, as if it
was a bouquet laid on.  It was the most exquis-
ite article of needle work we have seen.  Those
who think nothing good can come out of Utah 
ought to see Mrs. Staines' needle work, for in
her idea and execution of fancy work she is
second to none.  Daeca silk, split chenille,
arasene and floselle, were the materials used in
the work.
	With the Phrenological Journal for January
we received a very elaborate colored chart.  A
symbolical head with all the "bumps" marked
giving names and descriptions.  It is quite a
work of art, each characteristic being noted
with a minature picture descriptive of the at-
tribute.  It is an ingenious design, and one from
which much may be learned.  The magazine
this year celebrates its fiftieth year.  The Jour-
nal contains woodcuts of many distinguished
men in the profession of phrenology.  Joseph
Francis Call, who promulgated the doctrine in
1757, and announced it publicly in Vienna 90
years ago.  His associate, John Gasper Spruz
hiem of Prussia, and George Combe of Edinburgh.


These pictures are followed by Prof. O. L.
Fowler's, his brother, L. N. Fowler, his sister,
Charlotte Fowler Wells, her late husband, Prof.
S. R. Wells, then Nahum Capen L. L. D. and
Nelson Siz[-]r.  These last are well and favor-
ably known to the world as able expounders of
the now well recognized science of Phrenology.
There are other pictures of noted men, famous
buildings, etc. It is a more than usually inter-
esting number, containing a brief history of the
Journal itself, sketches of its editors, and so on;
"Phenomena of Immortality," by John Waugh,
"The Great Cotton Centennial," with illustra-
tions and other instructive articles. It is one of
the best magazines in the world.
	We have also to thank the publishing house
of Fowler and Wells for another very entertain-
ing and useful book, entitled, "The Fallacies in
Progress and Poverty." The book is by William
Hanson- Price $100. It is a review of Henry
George's "Progress and Poverty," Henry Dun-
ning Macleod's "Economics" and other works
on protection, free trade, the industrial problem,
etcetera.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thanks, many, for the Xmas gift you sent me, 
"Woman's Place To-day," by Lillie Dovereux
Blake, containing four lectures in reply to the 
Lenten Lectures on "Woman," by the Rev-
Morgan Dix D. D., I have read it with much 
pleasure and information. She has answered 
his arguments and wonderful assertions in such 
a clear, truthful and erudite manner that if he
does not respond to them all must decide he 
considers them unanswerable; she asserts
nothing but what every candid mind must en-
dorse as truth, which all may see, know and un-
derstand, if they hold their minds open to con-
viction. 
	The determination in men not to see what 
really belongs to woman's true position, is verily
a problem, for it would seem their own knowl-
edge and daily observation must tell them how 
necessary, how important it is that she should
be a cultured, well educated being, that she be
able to inform the minds of her children from 
their earliest earth-life, and, indeed, know 
enough to understand how to educate the ante-
natal existence; at this point the intelligence of 
motherhood should commence, and it is a sub-
lime study, in which the young female mind
should be instructed as an imperative portion of 
her early training. 
	I often feel, when ignorance seems to over-
whelm me, and there seems so much to learn, 
that we scarce know how to live till we are un-
der the necessity of dying! Dr. D[-]x, with all 
his collegiate education, must have become a 
fossilized being, belonging to several past ages, 
surely he admires Emerson, the poet and philoso-
pher of America, let him hear what he says:
	"A certain awakened consciousness of in-
feriority in the men may have given rise to the
new chivalry in behalf of 'woman's rights.'
Certainly, let her be a[-] much better placed in 
the laws and in social forms as the most zealous
reformer can ask, but I confide so entirely in 
her inspiring, musical nature, that I believe
only herself can show us how she shall be served. 
The wonderful generosity of her sentiments
raises her at times into heroic and God-like re-
gions, and verifies the pictures of Minerva, 
Juno and others; by the firmness by which she 
treads her upward path, and she convinces the 
coarsest calculators that another road exists, 
than that which their feet knows."
	I would like to go on, for that which follows is 
so truly beautiful, realizing all that the heart of 
woman looks for in man, that there ought to be 

[Column 2]
a continual reiteration of it, especially in such 
ears and understandings as the Rector of Trin-
ity seems to possess; Emerson was a spiritual 
expounder of laws, receiving his ordination direct
from the chancery of heaven, hence he is cra[-]u-
ler. It is a problem yet to be solved, why man 
has so tenaciously struggled to subordinate
woman! It must arise from an entire ignorance
of her character and of her capabilities; they 
are not aware that the very system which they
have constantly inaugurated for her subj[-]ction, 
is the very cause of her supposed inferiority. 
From the beginning of the world there have
ever been women who have stood forth as the
oracles of womanhood, placed there either by 
birthright or circumstances, giving them a posi-
tion where they could develop themselves, and 
redeem their sex from the stigma of inferiority
and almost of imbecility with which man has 
branded her. In such positions she has shown
that she is capable of exalting and refining hu-
man nature, and also defining that beautiful and
most delicate position that he shall hold in re-
gard to his association with her; this is her pre-
reogative when she knows her place, and a true, 
pure woman will hold it with a tenacity that 
God has given her. 
	The greatest men of history have left on re-
cord, for the information of the world, that all 
that was worthy in them they derived from their 
mothers; showing the grandeur of their rich ap-
preciation. Were it not that the human voice
has to be exercised to propel truth and establish
it, I should feel it beneath the dignity of woman
to attempt to clear the opaque vision of some
masculine minds; "God is His own interpreter,
and He will make it plain." That the time has
come to clear the track for the progression of His
daughters, I rejoice; that there are noble men 
who boldly stand forth as the brother and the
advocate of woman in her upward path that
leads to emancipation, one of these I have be-
come acquainted with through his noble book, 
entitled, "Common Sense About Women," by 
T. W. Higginson; coupled with this is, "Woman's
Place To-day." These books should be found in 
the libraries of all advanced minds of the 19th 
century, for they contain an epitome of all that
need be said upon the subject, for to my under-
standing it appears that one who cannot see and
feel and comprehend the truths they contain 
must willfully shut their eyes, and then quer-
ously exclaim, "I cannot see!" Such would not
be persuaded though one rose from the dead. 
Alas! there are many such incredulous minds
upon the earth to day, even now when knowl-
edge and science are withdrawing the veils that
have hitherto obscured the mental vision; sure-
ly such prefer "darkness rather than light;" or 
is it that lethargy is upon many minds; that
sleep which Scripture so vividly portrays by the
ten virgins—they all slumbered and slept, from 
which truth, with her ever glowing lamp, could 
not awaken. 
	Oh, let us watch! that we be not one of these. 
A mind always kept open to conviction will re-
ceive truth by whatever hand it may be brought. 
Like the diamond and the gold, it is indestruc-
tible; and such a mind, ignited by its flame, will
be ready even to hear and obey that thrilling
voice, "Behold the Bridegroom cometh, go ye 
out to meet Hi[-]!"
	HANNAH T. KING. 
Salt Lake City, Jan. 5th, 1885.


[Column 1]
THE WORLD'S EXPOSITION. 

NEW ORLEANS, La.,  Dec. 29th, 1884. 
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	On reaching this city, and finding that Utah 
has made no move towards an exhibit in this 
immense World's Exposition in the Woman's

[Column 2]
﻿Department, I take the first opportunity to ap-
peal to you, with, the assurance that there is a
space awaiting the women of Utah, and the
opportunity to do themselves credit before the 
world, in literature, science, art, invention,
household employment and home industries; in
short to make an exhibit that may show her
steady advance, [-]levation and cultivation.
	It may seem a late time to make a move—let
me assure you,and the rest of the ladies of Utah,
that it is not too late; There are many delays
in all directions; detentions by rail, searc[-]y of
lumber for furnishing spaces, etc., so this gives
one courage to ask for immediate and prompt
sc[-]ion.
	Call all the earnest, appreciative, talented and
co operative women together, and see how much
good work can be done in the shortest time, and
I will do all in my power here for you towards
the care of goods entrusted, and see to it that
they have a proper installation,
	In Literature—There must be some shining
lights, who, if they have not published a book,
have short stories written for papers and maga-
zines. Collections in scrap bocks, and leaned
for the time, would fill the gap. If any works
are issued, all the better.	
	In Art—Are there not artists in oil, water
colors, crayon pictures, wood-carving,etching on
glass, etc;, needle work, fancy, o n amental and
practical; screen painting, carpet and rug mak-
ing, etc, etc.
	In Science.—Who has made a collection of tire
plants of Utah, Its minerals, birds insects, ete ?
	Invention must have claimed the attention of
pome one or more, no matter how, simple if
practical.
	In Enployments and Industries of all kinds
suitable to women, such as canning fruitin glass,
dried fruits, bee farming, silk raising, what ex-
hibits can be made?
	This outline, in brief, I venture to give an
idea of what may be desired and desirable, In
case the ladies of Utah, respond; and allow me to
add, that, as the collection of articles is made, it
 is desirable to duplicate the invoice of each box,
Bending a duplicate to me. Have the name of
each contributor marked upon a label and at-
tached to the article. If to be sold, its value.
When sold, at the close of the Exposition, the
 money will be sent instead of the goods, after
deducting 10 per cent, an express regulation of
the Woman's Department. The goods to be sent
by quick freight, plainly marked “Woman’s Da-
partment, World’s Exposition, New Orleans, for
Mrs. J. G. Lemmon.” 
	Transportation to and from the Exposition,
the cost of installation of goods and all necessary
expanses here will be defrayed by the Depart-
ment of Women.
	You may recall Prof. J. G. Lemmon and my-
self on a brief visit to your beautiful city in
1881, when we participated in celebrating the
90th anniversary of B[-]shop Hunter at the old
folks' picnic. Last season in botanizing in Ari-
zona, we made our botanic headquarters at the
former home of Elder John W. Young, and
there had the pleasure of becoming well ac-
quainted with Elder Segmiller, who made the
hospitalities doubly pleasant, while exploring in
and about the beautiful region of the San Fran-
cisco Mountains.
	Par on this pleasant digression—my thoughts
are none the less alive to the good work ahead;
if you all, over there, act with promptness, and
I know you will esteem it a privilege to offer the
best and do what you can for a good work in
this truly great World's Exposition. Are none
of you coming over here? If you could, and
take the goods under immediate supervision, all
the better. Allow me to say, that whatever I
am doing, or may do, I receive not a dollar of re-


numeration; but with cheerfulness do all I can;
and expect to remain till after the close of the
exhibit.
	With cordial remembrances and good wishes
for the New Year, believe me,
	Yours Respectfully,
	MRS J. G. LEMMON,
	Vice President of Pacific slope (including
Utah) Woman's Department, World's Exposi-
tion, New Orleans.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PROFESSIONAL TRAVELS.

	Mrs. Margaret C. Shipp, M. D., has recently
returned from rather an extended and interest-
ing professional trip through Northern Utah,
parts of Wyoming and Idaho. Leaving this
city September 25th, the Dr. visited Coalville,
Grass Creek and Wanship, then returned home
to attend O[-]tober Conference. Immediately
after conference, resuming her labors in this di-
rection, she visited Morgan, Evanston, Almy,
Woodruff, Randolph, Laketown, St. Charles, 
Bloomington, Paris and Montpelier. In each
of the places mentioned she lectured to the ladies
upon those special subjects that interest women
so greatly. At St. Charles the Dr. says she had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Nancy Pugmire, a
daughter of the late Apostle C. C. R ch, and
President of the Y. L M. I. A. of Bear Lake
Stake, over which she presides with dignity and
rejoices in her work. She proposed to call
meetings in the different towns of the Stake,
and by her invitation she visited, in company
with President Pugmire, the Associations of St.
Charles, Bloomington and Paris. Their associa-
tions have a large membership and its members
are active and spirited in their work. At Mont-
pelier she took the Oregon Short Line to the
Junction of the Utah Northern, visiting Cache
Valley on her return home. She lectured at
Providence, Millville, Hyrum, Paradise, Wells-
ville and Logan. She remained at Logan three
weeks and several sisters followed her home
from different parts of Cache County, to place
themselves under her treatment. Dr Shipp says
in her trip of twelve weeks and a half she was 
kept constantly very busy lecturing and treating
uterine diseases. At each place she informs us
she spoke very highly of and always recom-
mended patients desiring treatment to the
Deseret Hospital.
	Dr. Shipp intends giving lectures in the sever-
al wards of the city by invitation of the Y. L.
M. I. A. On Wednesday evening, Jan. 7[-]h, she
gave an excellent lecture  under ths auspices of
the Young Ladies' Association, giving season-
able and logical advice and suggestion, as well
as scientific facts and results of investigations
by the most learned men and women of the
medical profession. Dr. Shipp i[-] a very pleas-
ing speaker, and she has some pertinent truths 
to impart to young women, and especial[-]y to 
young mothers.


R. S. AND Y. L. FOURTEENTH WARD.

	The sisters regular semi monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Jan. 10th, 1885, at 2 p.m,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding. Singing, "We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet," etc. Prayer
by Mrs. Mary A. Freeze. Singing, 'Come let
us anew." Minutes of the previous meeting
read by the Secretary, Miss Alee Jenkins, and
approved. Minutes of Y. L. A. were then read
from the 20th Ward, and minutes of P. A. from
the 21st and 15th Wards.
	Mrs. Clawson then made a few opening re-
marks, and expressed her desire to hear each of
the sisters say a few words. Mrs. Freeze, Mrs.


Mc. Master, Mrs. St[-]yner, Mrs. H. C. Young,
each  made a few remarks, and the remainder of
the time was occupied by the sisters in the con-
gregation, many of whom bore strong testimon-
ies of the truth of the Gospel, and related items
of personal experience, all expressing a desire
to live faithful, to be dilligent in good works, and
to prove worthy of their high and holy mission
upon the earth.
	The Spirit of the Lord was plainly manifest,
and each one who spoke seemed desirious of be-
ginning the new year with a firm resolve to do
better and live nearer to God. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Singing, “Lord dismiss
us with Thy blessing.” Prayer by a brother in
the congregation.	
	After the close of the meeting Mrs. E. B.
Wells read the letter which had been addressed
to her from the Woman's Department of the
World's Exposition.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	PLESSINGTON, SECORA CO., NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are a small settlement here, and there
are but few of us. This is a very nice little
place. We have a Relief Society, also a Prim-
ary Association, and the children have im-
proved a little, but there is plenty of opportun-
ity for improvement. We have regular meet-
ings and Sabbath Schools. We have no school
house but there is one started, and we are in
hopes of celebrating the Christmas holidays in
it. This town is improving in buildings. There
is nice farming land here; we raise everything
that is put in the ground in the shape of eat-
ables, all except fruit.
	Your loving sister in the Gospel,
	IDA I. WARDEN.
	November 17, 1884.

	MILL CREEK WARD.
	Our associatton was re-organized August 13,
1884, by Bishop J. C. Hamilton and Counsel-
ors, and Patriarch Alexander Hill, with the
following named officers: Elizabeth Hill,
Prest.; Ann Lemmon and Elizabeth Snedaker,
Counselors; Francis H. Hanson, Secretary;
Araminta North, Treasurer; Albertina J. North,
Asst. Sec. and Treasurer. Mary A. Hamilton,
Janet Park and Ann Morgan, as Directors of
the grain association. There are ninety officers
and members enrolled.
	It was thought advisable to sell the old
wheat and replace it with new wheat; the bin
has been moved to the Bishop's, as a more cen-
tral location for the accomodation of the sisters.
It was done by several of the brethren and
their teams, under the management of our
Bishop. Cash received for wheat sold; $375.-
75; wheat sold, 417 bushels, 29 pounds; bought
in, 507 bushels, 18 pounds; showing an increase
of $89.49; 31 bushels, 38 pounds received by
donation, making a total of 538 bushels, 51
pounds of wheat in teh bin. We have reoeived
very efficient aid from Bro. G. Bailey, clerk of
the ward, for which we return many thanks,
also to any who have assisted in any of the
arrangements.
	Our late respected Bishop, Reuben Miller,
wished the society to make a donation of $200
for the Salt Lake Temple; our last report shows
we have on hand $128.80 of that amount.
	We can report our association to be in a
prosperous condition. The President and her
Counselors are faithful and united in promot-
ing the advancement of the society. The
teachers are alive to their duties; the poor and 
sick are cared for; all calls are cheerfully re-
sponded to. The Bishop and his Counselors
often meet with us, giving good instructions
and words of encouragement. Sister Ara-

[Column 2]
minta E. Hanson and Sister Sarah Waters
have been called by the society to study ob-
stetrics. The ward is greatly in need of sisters
proficient in that branch of science. As a band
of sisters we are trying to do the best we can.
	At our meeting of Dec. 9th, we were visited
by Prest. M. I. Horne, Sisters E. S. Taylor,
H. M. Whitney B. W. Smith and E. Howard,
who addressed the assembly; their instructions
were of a very encouraging nature, and they
thought we were blessed indeed to have the
Bishop and his Counselors and other brethren
take so much interest. Said the Mormon
women had a great work to do; enjoined upon
all the necessity of instructing their children;
spoke upon the principle of plural marriage,
and advised all to sustain the principle; honor
the Priesthood and help to carry out the laws
of God. Were pleased that the Bishop en-
couraged the parents to attend the Young
Ladies' meetings. The Bishop and Counselors
expressed themselves well pleased with the in-
structions from the sisters, and made some very
gook remarks.
	It was a meeting long to be remembered, and
the sisters hope for many more of the same
kind.	ELIZABETH HILL President,
	FRANCIS H. HANSON, Sec.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quaterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 26,
1884, commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding. Opened by singing, "Know this
that every soul is free," etc.; Prayer by Coun.
E. S. Taylor; Singing, "The time is far spent."
Minutes of May Conference were read by Mrs.
E. B. Wells and accepted; roll of presidents
called, after which the wards were represented
verbally as follows: First Ward, Coun. Margar-
et Steele; Second, Coun. McGregor; Third,
Prest. E. Wiler, Fourth, Teacher Mary Ann
Hadley; Fifth, no report; Sixth, Prest. Rhoda
Fullmer; Seventh, Prest. Mary Alice Lambert;
Eighth, Prest. E. B. Fletcher; Ninth, Prest.
Sarah Groo; Tenth, Teacher Elizabeth Paul;
Eleventh, Coun. Jane Lawson; Twelfth, Prest.
Julia Druce; Thirteenth, Prest. Rachel Grant;
Fourteenth, Prest. Agnes Shwartz; Fifteenth,
Teacher Mary Grey, Sixteenth, Coun. Fisher;
Seventeenth, Secretary Lydia Alder; Eigh-
teenth, no report; Nineteenth,  Prest. Rachel
Whipple; Twentieth, Coun. Owens; Twenty-first
Teacher Mary Davis; Farmer's Ward, Prest.
Emma Woodruff; Brighton, Sec. Agnes Jones;
Riverton, Jane Silcox.
	Prest Horne made some suggestions to the
officers of the several branches, and gave some
instructions to teachers; thought their calling a
very important one and urged them to carry
with them the Spirit of God to discern light
from darkness. Spoke of the storing of wheat
and entreated the sisters to avail themselves of
these abundant years of plenty and store up
grain against a day of need. After many good
remarks calculated to interest and strengthen
the faith of those engaged in labora of either
a spiritual or temporal nature.
	The meeting adjourned until 2 p.m., sang
Doxology, dismissed with prayer by E. B.
Wells.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. opened with sing-
ing, "How often in sweet meditation;" Prayer
by Mrs. Sarah M. Ktmball; singing, "Mid
scenes of confusion." Mrs. E. B. Wells read
minutes of September Conference, which were
approved. Prest. Horne called officers from
various country wards. North Jordan Ward
was reported by Coun. Mary Bennion; Sister
Cooper, West Jordan; Sugar House, by one
of the members.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor in the course of her re-
marks said: It is thought women are not good


[Column 1]

financiers, but it seems those associated in the
Relief Society have done a great deal, and with
small means; and said much more in regard to
their building, taking care of the poor and the
sick. Also alluded to the increase of our
numbers, not only by emigration, but through
the offspring of the Latter-day Saints. Spoke
of the opposition to our labors and that preju-
dice against women's organizations was gradu-
ally wearing away; and said many other good
things.
	Sister P. L. Kimball alluded to the remark-
able events now transpiring, the fulfilment of
prophecies, and the beautiful manifestations that
had been received by those laboring in the Lo-
gan Temple for the redemption of their dead.
She had visited several of the settlements
North and met with the sisters in their meet-
ings, found them doing an active work in their
local organizations. Spoke of the way in
which woman had been considered in past ages
and of the opportunities for knowledge and ad-
vancement she enjoyed to-day.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball in the course of her
remarks said, the sisters are increasing in faith
and in the ability to handle means and this is
favorable; for if we are faithful over a few
things we have the promise of more, and we
have proven that the blessing of God has been
upon the Relief Society. It had a small be-
ginning and we had much to humiliate us, but
thank God for the degree of standing we have
attained and for success in our endeavors.
	Spoke of the tact necessary to bestow help upon
those in need without hurting them; thought
all these things required wisdom.
	Sister B. W. Smith thought the times would
grow better and that the saints would be more
happy; we ought to be wise, watchful, prayer-
ful, and if we had to contend for our rights we
would appreciate them all the more.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon spoke of her desire to
do whatever the could to aid in the great work
the sisters were doing; she felt that it was a
good place to be instructed, and those that
came there ought to do something more than
just to be represented. She enjoyed meeting
with her sisters and was determined to perse-
vere.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of her desire to
make more rapid progress in the new year and
to do better; had made many new resolves;
thought we ought to be specially kind to for-
eigners and all new comers, and made other
remarks upon the present condition of affairs
here.
	Prest. Horne presented some business mat-
ters and spoke of the great blessing it is to ob-
tain knowledge of the things of God. Encour-
aged the sisters in good works; urged them to
attend to their duties in the Relief Society and
prayed God to bless them.
	Dr. E. S. Barney having been called to the
stand, said she had been devoting the most of
her time for the last four months in searching
genealogical records in the Historian's Office for
the names of Stevens, it being her father's
name; she was gathering all she could find on
both continents, expecting to have those of
that name assist in doing the work for the
dead when the record is completed. It is in
accordance to Scripture to perform ordinances
for the dead. It is this that the saints are
building temples for. Of course we will have
to get together our records and be diligent in
getting them before they are destroyed by fires
and calamities of different kinds that are sure
to come upon the nations. Prest. Richards has
kindly proffered a gratutious access to his gen-
ealogical library in the Historian's Office for
the saints. He has published also a list of re-
cords of families in the Deseret News, but
many names are found in the Index of those
families that are associated with them by
intermarrying that he could not publish, but

[Column 2]

they can be found by taking sufficient time.
Work of this kind cannot be done in a hurry,
but time must be given to it, as one would if
studying arithmetic. When these records are
compiled then each can refer to the record of
his own name and lineage and work from
them, then it can easily be seen what is fin-
ished. All of that name, though different fam-
ilies, will run back into the one family. This
will save a great deal of trouble and confusion.
We should keep our records. She knew of
families that do not keep a record of the birth
of their own children. She heard a letter read
from a poor family of ten in the old country,
and they were in a state of great destitution;
but we are here where there is no lack but an
abundance. Organization as we have it here is
beautiful; united we stand: divided we fall.
When we hear the reports read of the many
thousands of children under eight years of age,
it seems as though Zion was growing and the
blessings of life and health are with us.  When 
we were but a handful, driven from our homes,
living in sod houses on the hillside to protect
us from the cold of winter, instead of using
our tallow candles to make our hut cheerful,
we were thankful if we had one to grease our
frying pans with, our food, though coarse, our
fare, though hard, we enjoyed with a relish
and peace that God only gives, and we can tell
the world with all their apposing influence
that we know on whom we lean.

Y. L. M. I. A. S. L. STAKE.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference
of S. L. Stake convened in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 27,
1884, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. After
the usual exercises of singing and prayer, the
minutes of previous conference were read by
the secretary and accepted. Prest. Freeze
then called upon the presidents to report their
respective associations. The following wards
were reported: 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th, 10th,
11th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 17th, 19th, 20th, 21st,
Sugar House, Big Cottonwood and Union.
	Prest. Freeze said, I am pleased to see the
young sisters come forward and report their as-
sociations; they are gaining ground and will
continue to improve; expressed herself very
well satisfied with the reports and urged the
young ladies to try to make their meetings in-
teresting and attractive, said she thought the
best meetings were testimony meetings, and
that when the spirit of our religion was more
fully grown in our hearts that we would do
away with our programme. Believed in form-
ing good resolutions; said we find thus by
watching ourselves how weak we are; said if
we would refrain from speaking of persons in
their absence except as we would in their pres-
ence, it would be a great point gained. Spoke
against round dancing and gave some other
good counsel. Referred to her having chosen
Miss Nellie Colebrook as her counselor, and
asked the young ladies, as she felt sure she was
the right person for the place, to sustain her.
Spoke of the necessity of a Stake fund.
	Counselor Nellie Colebrook occupied a short
time, referred to the difference in standing be-
fore the sisters to address them by the right
spirit and the actress reading the words of an-
other aright. Referred to spiritual influence,
and spoke of her happiness in reflecting that
she had been an obedient girl to her parents,
and exhorted the young to obedience to par-
ents and to authorities.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp gave a sketch of her trip
north, and protested in her remarks against
skating rinks as injurious to health, as well as
injurious in other ways.
	Coun. Mattie Horne Tingey thought if the
young ladies remembered half they had heard
it would advance them a long way towards
perfection; thought if we had not a testimony

[Column 3]

it was our own fault, for the Lord expects us to
seek for it. Let us seek after the Spirit of God.
Let us control our thoughts lest we speak or
do wrong, every one has a right to a certain
portion of revelation.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor congratulated Prest.
Freeze on her choice of a counselor; thought
presidents in choosing counselors should seek
those that were congenial to them. Spoke upon
obedience, felt that there had been great pro-
gress made by the young ladies; referred to the
reading in the associations and recommended
them to read from the Bible and Book of Mor-
mon, denounced fictitious literature, and said
we want that which will cultivate the Spirit of
the Lord. We drink in the spirit of what we
read.
	Prest. Freeze in her closing remarks advised
the associations not to forget their Hospital
dues. Thought concerts were preferable to
dancing parties.
	Conference adjourned for three months; sing-
ing; benediction by Prest. Louie Felt.

PRIMARY, S. L. STAKE
	The Quarterly Conference convened in the
Fourteenth Ward Hall, Dec, 27, at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. Elien C. Clawson presiding. Opened by
singing "Dearest Children;" Prayer by Sister
Jennie McLean; singing, "Hope of Israel."
Minutes were read and accepted. Mrs. M.
James reported that in the Seventh Ward Pri-
mary they had what they called an emigra-
tion fund and hoped to be able to send for a
child to come to Zion very soon. Miss L. Ed-
monds said that in the Tenth Ward if the
officers were not present the children would
carry on the meetings, said it had taught her a
lesson not to postpone their meetings for any-
thing. Mrs. Clawson reported the Twelfth
Ward as improving and increasing in numbers.
Mrs. L. A. Wells reported the Thirteenth
Ward, and stated that they had a varied pro-
gramme and a complete organization.
	A song was then sung by four little girls of
the 20th Ward, entitled "God bless Papa."
Mrs. Clara Cannon of the 14th Ward said she
had been sick and not able to attend her meet-
ings of late, but was much interested in the
work and wanted to see the children improve.
A very little girl from the 20th ward recited
a piece entitled "Darling Nestlings." Mrs.
Morris, 15th Ward, said their Primary was do-
ing very well; they had a very nice party on
Thanksgiving Day, and spoke of a little orphan
girl in the ward that was a beautiful dancer,
and the children had made her a nice present.
The children sang in concert "Word of Wis-
dom."
	Mrs. Herridge gave a good report of the 16th
ward Primary, and Mrs. Toone of the 20th.
Two little girls sang, "Let us all speak kindly
to each other." Mrs. McGhie, Sugar House
Primary, told how they had taken the chil-
dren in the summer to see an old lady who was
blind, and one of the little boys bore his testi-
mony, which gave the blind woman great joy.
Mrs. Sutherland of Big Cottonwood said their
association had made a quilt, and pieced it
all themselves. The children were all very
anxious to come to their meetings. A little
girl from the 15th ward sang "Welcome, wel-
come, Sabbath morning"
	Prest. Clawson made some remarks and re-
minded the children of the Fair that would be
held next fall.
	A little girl from the 16th ward recited a
piece, "When we are standing on the thresh-
old." Two boys from the 10th ward sang,
"Rally round the flag, boys." Coun. Lydia
Ann Wells urged the children to pray in the
morning as well as the evening; said she no-
ticed that few of the presidents said amen at
the close of their remarks; told them she heard
Apostle Lyman say that every one should say


Amen at the close of remarks; made other sug
gestions.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Children sang "The Lord's Prayer." Benedic-
tion by Elder R. Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs Matilda Joslyn Gage lately addressed
the "Political Equality Club, of Albany," N.
Y.
	"Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has a furnished
house assigned to her at New Orleans, by the
Committee of the Exhibit."
	A Scotch colony consisting of about 2,000
persons is now being organized to go to Los
Angeles, Cal.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has been speaking in
Wisconsin since her return from Iowa, and will
continue until the end of the month.
	Mrs. Helen Jackson has gone to Los Angeles
for the winter. Her story "Ramona" is every-
where recognized as a notable achievement in
literature.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball started the Western
Reserve School of Design, in Cleveland, O. It
was founded for women, but several young men
have been admitted.
	Mrs. Mary L. Leonard has been admitted to
practice in the courts of Washington Territory,
and is said to be the first woman who has pur-
sued the study of law in the Northwest.
	The eightieth birthday of Mrs. Mary
Thompson Willard was celebrated recently by
Miss Frances E. Willard and Mrs. Mary B.
Willard, her daughter and daughter-in-law,
who gave a reception in her honor. "Her chil-
dren rise up and call her blessed."
	The friends of Oliver Johnson, the well
known abolitionist, gave him a reception at
New York the fifth inst., on the seventy-fifth
anniversary of his birth. Several hundred in-
vitations were sent out; among others, to
John G. Whittier, Rev. Samuel May, William
Lloyd Garrison, and others, of Boston and vi-
cinity.
	Miss Kate Field has become the possessor
of a perfect copy of the first edition of the
Book of Mormon, published at Palmyra, in
New York, in 1830. Its title page announces
Joseph Smith as "author and proprietor" of the
book, held to be the word of God. Later edi-
tions omit this statement.—Inter Ocean.
	The Married Women's Property Rights Law
of Vermont was secured by the persevering,
noble effort of Ron. H. C. Ide, senator from
Caledonia Co. A bill similar to the new law
was introduced into the Vermont Senate by
this gentleman two years ago, passed that body
but was lost in the House. This year the bill
was again introduced by Senator Ide, and has
become a law.
	The active opponents of women meddling in
politics (such as write us to-day on the women's
influence in our city election) must begin to
feel like Mrs. Partington on the sea beach in
a flood ride rising on a northeast gale, on read-
ing in the morning news that in Germany, of
all enlightened countries under the sun, Bis-
marck, of all the politicians in that country, is
invoking the aid of the women to operate upon
public opinion and public affairs. If in Ger-
many, where they still harness a woman and a
horse or a dog together to a cart. and in the
highest circles expect her to keep silent and
mind her knitting when men are talking, the
greatest political bully of all Christendom calls
on women to come into politics and help him,
what shall not come to pass in woman-ridden
America?—Boston Transcript.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Like to a summer butterfly,
	Or sunshine on a winter's day,
Dear friend, you ever welcome arc—
	Welcome as first flowers of May.

You fill my heart with Christian love,
	Teach me a fuller trust in God;
Tell me all hear say tales to prove—
	Weigh and measure by God's own world. 

Dear EXPONENT—aye! exponent
	Of mankind's higher, truer life;
Of noble work, of sweet content
	In duty's path midst joy or strife.

Across prairies, o'er the plains,
	You come, dear friend, as heaven sent,
Sweet as their own wild flower's perfume;
	Welcome, thrice welcome, dear EXPONENT.
		EMILY SCOTT.
Ohio, Dec. 15, 1884.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a letter from an obscure sis-
ter like myself might be acceptable, I proceed
to pen a few lines.
	I often wonder what I am here for, when I
see so many of my sisters hard at work, either
trying to spread the Gospel or trying to defend
it so nobly. And then it seems as though I
am ashamed of myself for allowing such un-
grateful thoughts to enter my mind. We are
all here to fill up the measure of our creation
in one way or another. A little poem I once
read comes to my mind. "He Knoweth," be-
ing the title of the poem.

	"There are flow'rets in the valleys low,
		And over the mountain side.
	Which were never praised by human voice,
		Nor by human eyes descried.

	Yet as sweet as the breath of the royal rose,
		Is the perfume they exhale;
	And why they bloom, or where they bloom,
		The good Lord knoweth well."

	Yes, the good Lord knoweth well. There is
no need for any one to feel dejected or cast
down, for our Creator has ordained all things
in His own wise way.
	Last evening as I sat reading an aged sister
living near me came in to while away an hour
or two. I read to her out of the little EXPON-
ENT; you should have seen her face as it lighted
up with enthusiasm as I read to her "Mormon
Women," by Aunt Hannah; Aunt Em's
"Reverie," also that beautiful poem, entitled,
"A Christmas Gift," and others that were alike
interesting. As I read I could not but make
the comment, "The degraded women of Utah,
Ind[-]ed!" One has only to take up the little
EXPONENT if they want to see such cruel as-
persions contradicted. As the sweet perfume
of flowers that are wafted to us by some soft
summer breeze, calms and soothes our turbulent
spirits, so do the grand and lofty thoughts ex-
pressed in the EXPONENT by our sweet sisters,
lull and soothe all intelligent readers.
	SISTER IDA.


The following patents have been issued to
women during the two weeks ending Dec. 30, 
1884.
	Susan T. Burkhead, Newbern, North Caro-
lina, Corset.
	Mary Couplin, Thomburg, Iowa, Milkcan
Elevator.
	Clara O. Bilinski, Diamond Lake, Ill.,
Clothes Sprinkler.
	Camille A. Faure, Paris, France, Polariza-
tion Battery or Electric Accumulator.
	Agnes W. H. Smith, Beaver Dam, Wis.,
Milk Can.


THE PLACE
TO BUY BEAUTIFUL AND ARTISTIC
Home Made Valentines
IS AT
C. R. SAVAGE'S ART BAZAR.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.

H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.

And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auberbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

