VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1884.	No. 7.


"HE FAILETH NOT."

I have tried love, and I have known love fail;
Have trusted friends, and found that friends forgot;
Sought help from my own heart without avail—
				"He faileth not."

Neither by day or night, in age or youth.
In poverty, and in the fairest lot,
In sorrow and in joy, His word is truth—
				"He faileth not."

If I should let all other comforts go.
And every other promise were forgot.
My soul would sit and sing, because I know
			"He faileth not."

I cannot tell what winds of God may blow,
What safe or perilous ways may be my lot;
But I have little care, for this I know—
				"He faileth not."

—WOMAN'S JOURNAL.


[Column 1]
A DAY--DREAM.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

Concluded.

	At that moment a dignified man of forty
entered the room. His raven locks and dark,
flashing eyes, his grand step and haughty mien,
contrasts forcibly with the fair, heart-broken
lady before him. He stands and gazes on his
wife with a curling lip for a moment. Then,
with a stern look and voice ejaculates, "Madam!"
With a half shriek she starts to her feet, and,
with outstretched hands and beseeching look
she cries, "O Arthur, where is my child? Give
her back to me!" I turn from the lady to the
husband and ah! I recognize him as the des-
troyer of the poor girl I saw in the street.
With the cold, sinister look and modulated
voice of the educated, hypocritical libertine,
he exclaims, "Madam, you have no child! Dare
not to call that shameless girl your daughter!
Speak not her name in my presence."
"Arthur torture me not by these heartless
words. Think of her youth and innocence."
"Madam, you forget yourself!" "No, Arthur,
it is you who forgets. You know how pure
and child-like she was before you brought that
libertine to our home. You know how fascin-
ating this man was, and how he fastened the
fangs of his treacherous wiles around, the
heart of our innocent child. How often
have I plead with you to have him discontinue
his visits here, but you pooh, poohed and said
he was a good fellow and a gentleman. O
Arthur, in pity tell me where my daughter is!"
"For once, madam, I will humble myself by
speaking of this innocent girl. I have engaged
one of your strong-minded women, a philan-
thropist as you would term her. I have given
her a sum of money to hide her shame, that I
may never see her more. Her name is Mrs.
S." "Arthur, dare me not too far. I am but
a weak woman, but I am a mother still." "I
tell you, madam, you have no child. Never
mention that wanton's name in my presence
again." "Inhuman father! how dare you call
that child a wanton? O man of profound eru-
dition, united with virtues par excellence, know,
then, that I am cognizant of your incongrui-
ties, and that your supposed virtues are dia-
metrically opposite to your real character.
Arthur, you have a mistress! I have known
it for years; and I have suffered the torments
of hell from your infidelity, but never before

[Column 2]
have I allowed the polluted name to pass my
lips. Aye! blush, hypocrite, for your wife's hu-
miliation." With a sneer he replied, "Nay,
madam, I did not blush; but as you are so wise
as to understand so well the incongruities of
your husband, we had better take our innocent
daughter and start for Salt Lake. You would
be a paragon of a first wife, and then my lady
need not blush for her husband's supposed
frailties." "Think not, sir. to intimidate me by
your sarcastic evasions. Neither do I coincide
with you in your ironical similitudes; I abhor
plurality, but better be in Salt Lake where
men acknowledge their wives and children
than be subject to the eternal torture of know-
ing of your husband's infidelity!" "My learned
lady, I will, at the next session of Congress,
propose you as a lady champion for the Mor-
mon people." "Better, sir, be the champion of a
people who follow in the ancient patriarchs foot-
steps than be associated with those who seduce the
innocent and then trample their victims under
their feet." "Cease your insinuations, madam,
or you leave my house and go with your fair
daughter." The lady starts to her feet, with
flashing eyes and distended nostrils, like a
lioness at bay, ready to spring at the destroyer
of her young, with her face ablaze with anger,
with one foot put forward and one arm raised
to heaven, as if to curse the smooth faced hypo-
crite before her. She stands for a moment
looking at her husband and the father of her
child. Perhaps some thought of her youthful
days, when all was bright and happy, the re-
membrance of the joy of her husband when
she presented her first and only child to him,
of the proud delight of the father and the
crowing of the babe when he would play bo-
peep with their darling, passed like a fleeting
sunbeam through her fevered brain. But it
only stayed the curse. Her arm drops motion-
less to her side; her countenance becomes livid;
she looks like a living corpse. Her husband's
face becomes as ghastly as her own, and his
frame trembles like an aspen leaf. At last a
voice issues from those frozen lips, low and
sepulchral, but with such woe and pathos that
it is enough to make angels weep for pity, and
send the cowering wretch before her to the
confines of the damned. "Thou guilded
sepulchre! I go to my daughter, and I pray the
Father of the innocent that the same grave
may enclose both mother and child. Never
will I see your face again. If the Lord, for
some wise purpose, prolongs our blighted lives,
we will seek some foreign shore, where in sor-
row and seclusion, we may find that peace
which has been denied us here. I curse you
not; let your own heart be its accuser." With
a yearning look of love and agony she glides
from the room.
	Quickly she reaches her chamber. She
takes a change of linen, her purse and casket
of jewels, and places them in a small valise,
dons a water proof cloak, a hat and veil, and
silently leaves the house, before her almost
paralyzed husband has time to think or move.
When he had recovered from the stupefaction
into which his wife's magnetism had thrown
him, he starts to his feet. In a paroxysm of
alarm he rushes from the room ex-
claiming, "She shall not go! I will not
be disgraced by affording a gossiping com-
munity matter for criticizing my domestic infe-
licities. I will confine her to her room to-
night. To-morrow take her to Europe." He
enters his wife's chamber, intending to enforce

[Column 3]
his tyrannical intentions. "Ah! she is gone!
Fool, to let her get the start of me! I will fol-
low her. No, that would proclaim to the
world my disgrace. I will let her go, and say she
and her daughter are gone to visit friends. She
has no relatives. Some fever shall take them
off. I will go to their mock funeral, and come
back a disconsolate widower. Let them go!
I cannot give up my reputation. I am confi-
dent my wife will keep her word." He sinks
into a chair and exclaims, "Heavens! how the
truth of her statements paralyzed me. What
devil told her of my misalliance! I thought I
was safe. Had I known my gentle wife had
such power of endurance, yet withal such a
strong mind and will, I would not have carried
measures with such a high hand. She nearly
took my breath with her indignant reproaches."
But it is past, and there let it rest."
	I follow the lady about a half a mile, to the
suburbs of the city, and with her hasten up
the steps of the cottage. The bell is answered
by a servant. The lady inquires for Mrs. S.
The servant answers, "she is very much en-
gaged; I am afraid she cannot see you." The
lady gives the servant her card and bids her
hasten with it to her mistress. We wait but a
minute in the sitting room, when Mrs. S. comes
rushing in. She takes the poor mother by the
hand and says, "O my dear lady I am so
thankful you are come! Your daughter has
just been delivered of a dead babe, and is in
great danger. The poor girl has been calling
for her mother, but I did not know where to
find you, or know that you would come if I
did."
	They hasten up the stairs and into a light,
airy chamber, where lay the dying girl. When
she sees her mother she cries, with outstretched
arms, "O ma, forgive your poor dying child!"
"My child! my baby! thank God I see you
again, but not dying! My darling, live to bless
your heart-broken mother!" "No, ma, it is
better so. I could not live and bear this dis-
grace. Lay my head on your breast, ma, as
you used to, and pray to our Father in Heaven
to forgive your poor sinful child. There, that
is nice, ma. How I wish we could both go to-
gether. Now lay me down on the pillow, put
your arm around me, your face by mine; kiss
me, ma. Now I will go to sleep. O Lord,
bless pa and forgive him, and please, Lord,
take ma with me!" The lady cannot speak for
she knows this is death, and a silent prayer as-
cends to heaven that the wish of her erring
and persecuted child may be gratified.
	When Mrs. S., who had left them, comes
back, they both lay apparently asleep, so calm
and tranquil do they appear. But it is the
sleep from which there is no awakening, until
the angel shall sound the trump, when all will
be judged according to the deeds done in the
body; when the wicked will be sent to everlast-
ing misery and the righteous to eternal life.


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				(Continued.)
	President Young and company did not over-
take us till Thursday, the 6th.  Father en-
camped the day before near a spring at the
head of a ravine with some timber near by--
having traveled but thirteen miles in two days
On the second day we were joined by Colonel,


[Column 1]
Kane who, Horace wrote, "had been to Grand
Island, where he received a letter from Presi-
dent Young informing him that the brethren
had given up the idea of moving up that way,
so he thought he would return. There is a
mound in the vicinity, about 1/4 of a mile off,
which Bro. Kimball and Col. Kane have no-
ticed in a short ramble which they took last
evening; and the Col. expressed a desire that
some of the men should take spades in the
morning and see what could be found by exam-
ing it."
	President Young, my father and others rode
ahead on the 6th to make a survey of the coun-
try to see if they could find some good place to
stop, and visited some springs a mile or two
from camp.
	Horace continues; "Some of the boys to-day
dug into the before mentioned mound, where
they found the "skeleton form" of an Indian,
apparently having been buried for some time;
they also found with it quite a quantity of
beads, brass, trinkets, etc., which formerly in
life adorned his person. Col. Kane has care-
fully wrapt up the bones and the cranium,
which he intends taking with him to Philadel-
phia for the inspection of some professional
friend of his, who is versed in the science of
craniology. The boys received $2.00 divided
among them for their services.	*	*	*
Father and mother are gaining rapidly."
	"Friday, 7th.	*	A council was held
to-day in Brother Jedediah Grant's tent - the
result was, that we are to remain where we are,
as a no more commodious place can be found,
and form in a hollow square		*		*
Twelve men chosen by the Council as a
committee to act for and make arrangements
in behalf of the camp, who are to see executed
the order of the Council - make arrangements
for the winter, etc. John Davenport took two
yoke of oxen and went back to the big springs,
our former camping place, after Brother Clay-
ton."
	"Saturday, 8th. Still warm and sultry. To-
day the wagons were arranged as contemplated
in the form of a hollow square - this brought
us further on the hill, and a considerable great-
er distance from water.		*	*	Father
and Bro. Kimball's companies occupy one end
entire of the square - to-day the teams were
engaged in hauling trees to make a bowery the
whole length of our wagons, which we worked
at till past eleven o'clock at night. and nearly
completed it. Trees were also drawn for the
purpose of building a bower in the centre of
the square. They also intend fencing in the
camp so that the cattle cannot get outside.
There was a lamb run over by one of our wagons
while moving to-day, and broke his leg - this
is the second time within a week we have been
indebted to accident for fresh meat."
	Sunday, 9th. Brother Kimball called his
family together to hold a private family meet-
ing, a number of others however attended.
Brother Kimball spoke at some length, and
was followed by father and Jedediah M. Grant.
*	*	The sacrament was administered
and the meeting dismissed. Council meeting
was held and Brigham spoke at some length
concerning the twelve men who were chosen to
form a Church Council, and were to act as city
council, also High Council to the Church. Fa-
ther Cutler was appointed president thereof by
a unanimous vote; Samuel Russell, clerk; and
Horace S. Eldridge, marshal. President
Young named our place "Cutler's Park." The
clerk then read a letter written to President
Polk - vote unanimous for it to be sent - the
expediency of remaining in a large camp was
spoken of as affording less chance for the na-
tives to rob and plunder from us - also the pro-
priety of securing the permission of the Lam-
anite chief before cutting their timber. Col.
Kane is quite sick and moved a little way on-
to the prairie by himself."

[Column 2]
	Monday, 10th.		*	This morning
some of the people constituting this end of the
camp and those immediately belonging to Bro.
Kimball's family were called together for the
purpose of making arrangements about cutting
hay for the winter. The calculations are made
to cut 800 tons, which divided among the
sixty-four men, when counted, made 12 1/2 tons
apiece. There were also estimated 350 head of
cattle, 31 horses and mules, and 48 sheep. To-
day we busied ourselves in completing the
fence on this end of the ground and in finish-
ing the bowery.	*	*	*	Col. Kane
was brought again into camp last evening very
ill indeed; he was taken to Bro. Grant's tent.
*	*	Forty wagons (including Bros. Her-
riman's and Peck's families, who went on to
the Elk Horn some time ago), came up while
here."
	On the 14th some of the brethren went to
cutting and drawing house logs, and one or two
commenced digging a well. In two days they
had dug to the depth of twenty-eight feet with-
out finding water. They also commenced
building a house for the purpose of storing
away provisions and other things, that they
might have the use of the wagons to haul hay
with, etc.
	Horace continues:  "A council of a number
of the Twelve and the authorities of the
Church was held at father's tent this evening
respecting our arrangements for the winter,
etc. Twenty-five men were lately appointed
to stand on guard night and day to keep the
cattle out of the woods, that they may not get
into the pea vines, which we depend upon con-
siderably for our cattle this winter."
	"Wednesday, 12th. Cool and pleasant--
the people collected between this and Brigham's
camp to receive letters from their friends in
the army. Our camp as well as Brigham's is
now completely fenced in."
	He again speaks of Col. Kane's sickness and
of him sending to Fort Leavenworth after a
physician of his acquaintance. On the even-
ing of the 13th he wrote:
	"A meeting was called in the centre of the
square, where captains and foremen were chos-
en for the purpose of superintending the cut-
ting of hay. There were the names of sixteen
companies or parties read over. Bro. K.'s and
father's companies constituting the 1st division
of the whole camp of Israel. A report of the
council was then read by Bro. Grant, request-
ing the people to turn out en masse to-morrow
morning, gather in all their cattle, yoke them,
let them remain in their yokes until further or-
ders, meanwhile furnish them with new cut
grass; also to sharpen their scythes and axes,
and hold themselves in readiness to commence
the work of haying. These orders were car-
ried out the next morning - hunting, yoking
and confining their cattle in yards, etc."	*	*
	"Sunday there were meetings held in the
woods about a mile and a half from camp.
Porter arrived this evening after an absence of
four or five months - ten days from Nauvoo.
He was lately liberated at Galena, no one ap-
pearing against  him to get repaired when
he last left us. Brought also a number of "Ea-
gles" issued July 31st, and letters.		*	*
In the paper is announced the death of its late
editor, Dr. Wm. E. Matlock, of whom the
obituary article speaks in the highest and most
praiseworthy terms."
	"Monday, 17.	*	Myself and three others
engaged in digging the well, but yet no water.
*	*	The physician who was sent for by
Col. Kane arrived from Leavenworth this af-
ternoon in company with Mr. Fleming, who
lives at the village below. The doctor said that
his patient was recovering rapidly. The two
gentlemen came to my tent this evening, when
we sent for Bros. Wm. Pitt, James Hutchinson
and James Smithers, who brought their in-

[Column 3]
struments and entertained us until 11 o'clock
with a variety of charming music. The doc-
tor said it was the best music he had heard in
this country."
	I remember many of the incidents mentioned
above, particularly the musical entertainment
at our tent. The first time we met Col. Kane
was on the 5th of August, just after our wag-
ons were formed in a circle so as to make an
enclosure for horses. The meeting was some-
what peculiar.
	My sister-in-law and I being more than weary
that day with the sun beating down and not a
shade of any kind to screen us from its scorch-
ing rays, we were considerably out of sorts,
and were just giving expression to some of our
thoughts and feelings, in consequence of the
unpleasant circumstances to which we were
subjected, through the heartlessness of those
who were allowed to wrong and oppress the
weak, etc., and wondering when these trials
would cease or where our lots were to be cast,
etc. We were going on in this strain while
washing the dust from our hands and faces
preparatory to getting dinner. But our con-
version came to a sudden stop, for as I went
to the tent door to dash out some water, who
should I see but a young stranger standing in
a listening attitude by the side of his carriage,
which stood hardly a yard away from our tent.
He looked up as I threw out the water, and I
felt my cheeks crimson as our eyes met; and I
made a hasty retreat, wondering who he was
and what we had said that he could take ad-
vantage of, if so disposed. Neither of us were
aware of the Col.'s arrival in camp, and this
young man looked a mere stripling, being deli-
cate in form as well as features. But we soon
learned who he was. He came, as it were, like
an angel of mercy, and one whom the Lord, no
doubt, raised up to act as a mediator in behalf
of a homeless and afflicted people.
	In the trouble of 1858, called the Mormon
Rebellion," but more correctly "Buchanan's
Blunder," Col. Kane appeared again as an
ambassador, though he was then in feeble
health and worn down with travel. At the
conclusion of Governor Young's remarks in
their council, he said, "Friend Thomas, the
Lord sent you here and He will not let you
die - no, you cannot die till your work is done.
I want to have your name live to all eternity.
You have done a great work, and you will do
a greater work still." Afterwards when asked
by Elder Staines why he wished to be intro-
duced as Dr. Osborne, he replied, "My dear
friend, I was once treated so kindly at Winter
Quarters that I am sensitive over its memories.
I knew you to be a good people then, but
since I have heard so many hard things about
you, that I thought I would like to convince
myself whether or not the people possessed the
same humane and hospitable spirit that I found
in them once. I thought, if I go to any of
my great friends of Winter Quarters, they
will treat me as Thomas L. Kane, with a re-
membrance of some services which I may have
rendered them. So I requested to be sent to
some stranger's house as 'Dr. Osborne,' that I
might know how the Mormon people would
treat a stranger at such a moment as this, with-
out knowing whether I might not turn out to
be either an enemy or a spy. And now, Mr.
Staines, I want to know if you could have
treated Thomas L. Kane better than you have
treated Dr. Osborne?"
	"No, Col.," he replied, "I could not." "And
thus, my friend," added Dr. Osborne, "I have
proved that the Mormons will treat the stran-
ger in Salt Lake City, as they once did Thom-
as L. Kane at Winter Quarters."


50	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"The old town of Ipswich, Mass., of which
Gail Hamilton is a native, celebrated its 250th
anniversay of foundation on Aug. 16, and Gail
Hamilton read a poem on that occasion."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 51


[Column 1]
HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

So gently passed the summer by,
And then the autumn tints appeared,
Ere they had noted time and change.
	Then once (as softly as in dreams
The skies are darkened and are cleared)
	Helen discerned, like palest gleams

Of coming dawn, a silent truth;
Aye, she was first to note the guest
That entered in their blessed group;
	And, like a waft of cooler air,
It wrapt her 'round; it thrilled her breast—
	Her heart received and hid it there.

For, as from reverie, she raised
Her eyes in silence to his face,
His own in deepest thought were fixed
	On fair Virginia's as she bent
Above her book. Purity, grace,
	Wrapt her with beauty. She intent

Upon the page, knew not his gaze,
Nor of the eyes that watched them both.
And Helen closed her eyes and thought;
	Ah, new and strange they crowded in;
Conflicting thoughts of sudden growth,
	Each strong the victory to win.

"Oh, hath my heart not borne its share
Of hidden wounds and scars revealed;
What o'erlooked error in my past
	Lies unrepented, unforgiven,
That I must yet in penance yield
	Fresh griefs of heart to answer heaven?

"Can I blame her? Oh, no, her heart
Is yet unconscious; I alone
Have read the future; even he
	Looked on her as one scarce awake
To his thoughts' import; all unknown
	This vine hath taken root, to break

Its tender tendrils from their hold
Were cruelty. If in the past
She hath been worthy of our love
	Who brought her here, with welcome, too,
How can mine be the heart to cast
	Her forth to battle life anew?

"Perchance God led her here and 'tis
His holy message that I meet;
And shall my lips a faith profess
	And yet my strength prove weak and faint?
Father, lead Thou my trembling feet
	Along the path marked for a Saint."

A child's voice called "Virginia," then
The spell was broken, and she went
Out from the room with answ'ring smile.
	Then woke he from his reverie,
"Helen"—his face bore love's content—
	"Dearest of all on earth to me."

She knew he meant the words, and knew
What he had still to learn as well,
That he would love another yet
	With love as fond and just as true;
Within, the Gospel's sacred spell
	His course would shape itself to view.

" 'Tis mine to wait while God unfolds
His purposes as we're prepared,
Nor selfish, coward self must rise
	To thwart or check another's need—
The trials this young girl hath shared
	Justice demands in word and deed."

Thus Helen searched her heart alone,
And winter near and nearer drew.
Then the good Elder wrote to say
	If Helen thought it well, he'd send	
For her fair guest to spend a few
	Months with her missionary friend.

"Was this temptation? Here was chance
To clear her path for once and all."
And while she held the letter still,
	Softly came down the first cold snow;
She watched it hasten, watched it fall,
	And something in her heart said "No,"

"Shall I, when skies are cheerless, cold,
And winds call forth the rising storm,
Send forth like one cast out adrift,
	This frail young girl on this poor plea?
Her place is by my fireside warm,
	Her life lot better here with me."

[Column 2]
She watched him often and she saw
The thoughts that grew within his mind;
She knew his love for her would fain
	Repress the love Virginia woke;
And looking on their boy, defined
	The thought the father never spoke.

So winter passed and spring drew near,
And plainer grew to Helen's eyes
The truth he not e'en yet had named.
	She knew that now Virginia's heart
Had wakened and had recognized
	His love, yet waited, kept apart.


[Column 1]
PATTY SESSIONS.

	The subject of this sketch, who, by the bye,
was one of the early pioneers of this valley,
was horn in Bethel, Oxford County, State of
Maine, February 7th, 1795, and is now there-
fore in her ninetieth year, and in the enjoy-
ment of excellent health, able to wait upon
herself, transact her own business and keep her
own accounts.  In many respects she is a very
remarkable woman.  Her parents were Enoch
Bartlett and Martha Ann Hall; she was the
first born of this marriage, though her father
had quite a number of children by a previous
marriage, the youngest twelve years old when
he brought home a young bride.  His first
wife had been dead three years.  The country
was entirely new, for she tells us when her
mother went home with her husband "they
rode forty miles by a spotted line on horse-
back; forty more where there was only a track,
and took all she had on the same horse."
	Patty, as she was called, learned to work
when very young, not only indoors, but out,
assisting her father, as he had but one son, and
he married and had a family of his own to
care for. The girls too were all well married,
except the youngest, by the time little Patty
was old enough to perform regular duty, and
as there was another young family coming on
there was plenty for all to do.  The older
children were all born in Massachusetts and
moved to Maine, seventy-five miles into the
wilderness.
	Patty was the oldest of nine children, four
sons and five daughters, and at that early day
there were no schools and neither of her parents
could either read or write; they knew their
letters, however, and so taught her the alpha-
bet.  Mr. Bartlett was a shoemaker, and his
wife a weaver, and both worked together, as
was quite common in those times, to make a
home and raise a family.  The first school Miss
Patty attended was kept in her father's shop,
and "the schoolmistress carried her in her arms
to school," shere she soon learned to read, and
being naturally bright, and, as the Yankees
term it, "smart," she soon acquired what was
in those days considered quite sufficient for
girls to know.
	Although Miss Patty had been a very obe-
dient, hard-working girl, and had listened at-
tentively to the instructions of her parents; was
honest, industrious, thrifty and economical, yet
she had a will of her own, as she manifested
when she fell in love and her parents disap-
proved of her choice.  She persisted in marry-
ing, much against their will; though they de-
clared if she did they would never give her
anything, and they were as good as their word
for they never gave her anything at all, al-
though, she says, "they gave their other child-
ren a good fit out." Yet in this instance, as in
many of a similar kind, it proved that years
afterwards, before her father died he confessed
her husband was the one he thought most of,
and said, "O Patty, you made a good choice,
better than I should have made for you."
	Patty Bartlett was married June 28, 1812,
to David Sessions, and went with him to his
father's, ten miles away, to a place called Ketch-
am.  Her husband's mother was a very fee-
ble woman, could scarcely walk a step without

[Column 2]
help, and it devolved upon her son's wife to
wait upon her, they lived in the fathers family
until the spring, the young wife making the house
and the husband worked with his father on the
farm and earned a cow and some cotton.  Mr.
Sessions made some trays to put milk in, the
wife made butter and sold to buy a pail to milk
in; the cotton she spun and made a bed tick
and some sheets; picked cat-tails and filled the
tick, so the young folks had a bed of their own.
Those were very primitive times, and it was not
an unusual thing for young people to marry
without household goods.  Mr. Sessions had
energy and ambition and took up land, put in
a crop and very soon built a house.
	"In the Spring we moved into our own
house," Mrs. Sessions in her journal says. "An
old acquaintance of mine told me she was go-
ing back to where she came from and wanted
me to buy her loom for four dollars.  Mr. Ses-
sions earned the money and purchased the
loom, and I soon had all the weaving I could
do fetched to me from ten to twelve miles."
Mrs. Sessions obtained quite a reputation as a
weaver both for good work and promptitude;
her work was always ready for her patrons at
the time specified.
	Shortly after Mrs. Sessions was married an
incident occurred which, as it had a bearing
upon her whole life, it seems proper to relate
here.  They lived ten miles in the woods and
were not near any physician.  One day a young
woman was taken suddenly ill, and sent for
Mother Sessions, who was in the habit of at-
tending obstetrical cases in the vicinity; she
was very feeble and had to be led, and before
she had time to go any distance, another mes-
senger came telling the young Mrs. Sessions to
run as quickly as she possibly could.  She hur-
ried on with all speed and when she arrived it
was thought the young woman was dying; Mrs.
Sessions, who was entirely unskilled in affairs
of the kind, but had abundant nerve force and
moral courage, took the child and put the mo-
ther in bed before Mother Sessions arrived; the
old lady showed her how to dress the baby,
which after doing she started homeward.  A
short time afterwards the doctor and some oth-
er help came, but all was over.  The doctor ex-
amined the mother and child to see that all
was right, and finding everything in a good
condition, he was anxious to see the young and
inexperienced woman who had so skillfully
performed the work.  The doctor called upon
her and congratulated her upon her ability,
and told her she must attend to that business,
not to have any fear, for she would prosper in
it, as it was a new country and there were many
about to move in, it would be neceseary to have
more help of this kind.  About four months
after she attended another young woman in her
confinement, and from that time she has fol-
lowed the profession of a midwife until within
a very recent date, when she felt that at her
age she was no longer to be depended upon.
	But to return to the story of the newly mar-
ried young people located in the backwoods of
Maine.  After they moved into their new house
Mr. Sessions began to build a large barn and
everything prospered with them.  The spring
following they made three or four cwt. of sugar,
which brought in money, so that they began to
be comfortable and contented.
	June the 15th, 1814, their first child was
born; they called him Peregrine; that year the
barn was finished.  However, wishing, I sup-
pose, to improve their circumstances or seek a
better locality, or both, the young people re-
moved to a place called Andover Surplus on
Bear River; the conveniences were not very
great, for Mrs. Sessions in her journal says, "we
moved into an old cabin where they had made
salt, and lived there until we built a new house,
which we moved into in the night, lest the old,
rickety cabin should fall down upon us."

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly,  Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers,
	Exponent Office, in brick bulding north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's Exponent,
					Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1884.


MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	On Sunday, August 24th, as per previous an-
nouncement, memorial services were held in
the large Tabernacle in this city at the same
time that funeral rites were being performed for
the martyred Elders in Paradise and Kanarra,
whither the bodies had been taken to the re-
spective homes of the victims of the terrible
massacre, that took place August 10th, in Ten-
nessee. There was a vast congregation, and the
seats on the platform, occupied by the Priest-
hood, were well filled. The upper stand was oc-
cupied by Prest. Joseph F. Smith, Prest. W.
Woodruff and Patriarch John Smith. In the
next stand were the Presidency of this stake
and some of the Apostles; the next well filled
with Seventies, and at each end of the stand
were most exquisite floral emblems. The gates
ajar in most lovely white flowers with a real
white dove over the top of the gates. The other
was a broken column of magnificent white
flowers, artistically arranged, and symbolizing
the broken life in a most effective manner.
	On the communion table in front of the Bis-
hops who were administering the sacrament a
most unique design in florals. A band of purple
flowers, on which was wrought the initials of the
martyrs in white pansies; in the center was a
crystalized white cross, from the four corners
rose aloft four date palm branches, gracefully
bending and uniting in the center, on which
rested a crown of immortelles. Surrounding
the base of this significent emblem was a wide
band of carnations, and attached to the design
was the inscription, "Tribute to the memory of
the late lamented martyrs, Elders William S.
Berry and John H. Gibbs, who were slain for
the testimony of Jesus Christ, at Condor's Farm,
Lewis County, Tennessee, Sunday, August 10,
1834."
	The services opened with the hymn by the
choir, "Creation speaks with awful voice."
Prayer by Coun. D. H. Wells. Choir sang,
"Sleep thy last sleep."
	President Joseph F. Smith was the first
speaker, his remarks were rendered in the spirit
of meekness and wisdom; he referred touching-
ly to the mission of the Gospel, peace on earth
good will toward men.
	President A. M. Cannon made some very
pointed and suggestive remarks in regard to the
mournful occasion now being-commemorated.
	Elder John Morgan spoke next, alluding more
definitely to the circumstances of the occurance
than those who had preceeded him.
	The choir sang "The Resurrection Hymn."
	President Woodruff occupied a few moments
in expressing his feelings on the subject, and his
words seemed seasoned with the grace of the
Holy Spirit.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, Elder T. B. Lewis and


Counselor C. W. Penrose, each occupied a few
minutes, speaking in a very impressive manner
upon the themes of the Gospel, its teachings,
and the results in all ages of the world.
   The choir sang, “Nearer, my God, to Thee."
Benediction by Apostle B. Young.


SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF THE
PROPHET JOSEPH.
HIS TEACHINGS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				______

	This is a charitable Society, and according to
your natures; it is natural for females to have
feelings of charity and benevolence.  You are
now placed in a situation in which you can act
according to these sympathies which God has
planted in your bosoms.  If you live up to these
principles, how great and glorious will be your
reward in the celestial kingdom!  If you live up
to your privileges, the angels cannot be re-
strained from being your associates.  Females,
if they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God; for what is more pleasing
to God than innocence?  You must be innocent,
or you cannot come up before God; if we would
come before God, we must keep ourselves pure,
as He is pure.  The devil has great power to de-
ceive; he will so transform things as to make
one gape at those who are doing the will of God.
You need not be teasing your husbands because
of their deeds, but let the weight of your inno-
cence, kindness and affection be felt, which is
more mighty than a millstone hung around the
neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or
dispute, but meekness, love, purity—-these are
the things that should magnify you in the eyes
of all good men.  Sin must be brought to
light, iniquity must be purged out from the midst
of the Saints; then the veil will be rent, and
the blessings of heaven will flow down—they
will roll down like the Mississippi river.
 If this Society listen to the counsel of the Al-
mighty, through the heads of the Church, they
shall have power to command queens in their
midst.  I now deliver it as a prophecy, if the in-
habitants of this State, with the people of the
surrounding country, will turn unto the Lord
with all their hearts, ten years will not roll
round before the kings and queens of the earth
will come unto Zion, and pay their respects to
the leaders of this people; they shall come with
their millions, and shall contribute of their
abundance for the relief of the poor, and the
building up and beautifying of Zion.  After this
instruction, you will be responsible for your own
sins; it is a desirable honor that you should so
walk before our Heavenly Father as to save
yourselves; we are all responsible to God for the
manner we improve the light and wisdom given
by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves.
“President Smith continued reading from the
above mentioned chapter, and to give instruc-
tions respecting the order of God, as established
in the Church, saying every one should aspire
only to magnify his own office and calling.  He
then commenced reading the 13th chapter-
"Though I speak with the tongues of men and
angels, and have not charity, I am become as
sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal;” and said,
don’t be limited in your views with regard to
your neighbor's virtues, but beware of self-
righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of
your own virtues, and not think yourselves more
righteous than others; you must enlarge your
souls towards each other, if you would do like
Jesus, and carry your fellow-creatures to Abra-
ham’s bosom.  He said he had manifested long-
suffering and forbearance and patience towards
the Church, and also to his enemies; we must
bear with each other’s failings, as an indulgent
parent bears with the foibles of his children.
He then read the second verse—“Though I
have the gift of prophecy, and understand all
mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I
have all faith,so that I could remove mountains,
and have not charity, I am nothing.” He then
said, though a man should become mighty, do
great things, overturn mountains, perform
mighty works, and should then turn from his
high station to do evil, to cat and drink with the
drunken, all his former deeds would not save
him, but he would go to destruction!  As you
increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase
in goodness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others; you must be long-suf-
fering, and bear with, the faults and errors of
mankind.
 How precious are the souls of men!  The fe-
male part of the community are apt to be con-
tracted in their views.  You must not be con-
tracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings.
Let this Society teach women how to behave
toward their husbands, to treat them with mild-
ness and affection.  When a man is borne down
with trouble, when he is perplexed with care
and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of
an argument or murmur—if he can meet with
mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe
his feelings; when the mind is going to despair,
it needs a solace of affection and kindness.
	You will receive instruction through the order
of the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed to lead,
guide and direct the affairs of the Church in
this last dispensation; and I now turn the key
in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and
this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and in-
telligence shall flow down from this time hence-
forth; this is the beginning of better days to the
poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice
and pour forth blessings on your heads.
	When you go home, never give a cross or un-
kind word to your husbands, but let kindness,
charity and love crown your works henceforth
don’t envy the finery and fleeting show of sin-
ners, for they are in a miserable situation; but
as far as you can, have mercy on them, for in a
short time God will destroy them, if they will
not repent and turn unto Him.  Let your la-
bors be mostly confined to those around, in the
circle of your own acquaintance, as far as knowl-
edge is concerned, it may extend to all the
world; but your administrations should be con-
fined to the circle of your immediate acquaint-
ance, and more especially to the members of the
Relief Society.  Those ordained to preside over
and lead, are authorized to appoint the different
officers, as the circumstances shall require.
If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in
your own tongue; do not indulge too much in
the exercise of the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage of the innocent and unwary.
You may speak in tongues for your own comfort,
but I lay this down for a rule, that if anything
is taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be
received for doctrine.  President Smith then
gave instructions respecting the propriety of fe-
males administering to the sick by the prayer
of faith, the laying on of hands, or the anoint-
ing with oil; and said it was according to revela-
tion that the sick should be nursed with herbs
and mild food, and not by the hand of an enemy.
Who are better qualified to administer than our
faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full
of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion?
No one.  Said he was never placed in similar
circumstances before, and never had given the
same instruction; and closed his instructions by
expressing his heartfelt satisfaction in improving
this opportunity.
 The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a
very powerful manner, never to be forgotton by
those present on this interesting occasion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 53


[Column 1]
TESTIMONY ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I trust you will pardon my presumption in ad-
dressing you, with whom I have not the pleasure
of the slightest acquaintance, but I feel as
though the principles of our holy religion, which
we have espoused, bring us near and make us
one in Christ Jesus.
	As I am getting old and feeble I cannot ex-
pect to remain very long in this probation, and
I feel anxious to bear my testimony to the truth
of the everlasting Gospel, as we have received
it in these last days.
	My age is seventy-four—a period in life when
many, very many of our aged brethren and sis-
ters are leaving us; but few now survive with
whom I was early associated in this Kingdom.
I will mention the honored names of a few sis-
ters who now remain. Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phoebe Woodruff,
and a few others.
	I joined this Church late in the fall of 1831. I
was then in Vermont visiting some sisters and
other relatives who lived there—myself and sis-
ters and their husbands joined the Church, and
the next season we went home to Connecticut,
New Haven Co., taking along with us Orson
Pratt and Lyman E. Johnson. They preached
the fulness of the Gospel there, and baptized
nearly all my father's family. This is some
fifty three years ago, during which time I have
never doubted the truth of this work for a mo-
ment, my experience in this cause having fur-
nished me with many living testimonies to the
truth.
	I went to Kirtland in the summer of 37, was
there when the Temple was finished and dedi-
cated, and became intimately acquainted with
all the Smith family, who were all very kind to
me. I am quite sure a better family never lived
on earth. I know that Joseph Smith was an in-
spired prophet of God, as I was personally ac-
quainted with him and often listened to his di-
vine teachings.
	In the summer of 1835 I was married to the
late Harrison Burgess, with whom I lived forty-
eight years, but he, too, is gone, and I am now,
as it were, left alone. My husband took a second
wife in 1846, by whom he had eleven children,
all living but three, and all have families. We
lived in friendship and love, each one striving to
do our part to fulfill the sacred obligations we
were under to each other in the new and ever-
lasting covenant. As our family increased it
was always my pleasure to receive each one as
they came into our family circle and to do all in
my power for their comfort.
	It has fallen to my lot to survive my husband
and his other wife, as she died a few months be-
fore he passed away. This sudden bereavement
has left me very lonely, as I have no children of
my own on whom to lean for comfort and sup-
port in my declining years; but I hope soon to
join them in a better world than this. I hope
and trust I have not lived quite in vain, as I
have had the privilege of doing the work for
many of my kindred dead. In this I rejoice ex-
ceedingly.
	I am a firm believer in the principle of plural-
ity of wives, or celestial marriage, as it has been
revealed to us in these last days through the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as the testimony
and practice of it by the ancient people of God
in former times. It is a principle in which I re-
joice more than in any other which has been re-
vealed from the heavens, and it has ever been a
wonder to me how people can despise and hate a
principle fraught with so much comfort and
happiness, as this surely must be, to those who
have had to lay their loved ones in the cold and

[Column 2]
silent grave. How cheering, then, to know that
through the sealing power of the holy Priest-
hood our union can be made eternal, and we can
have and enjoy each other's society beyond the
grave. Perhaps I should never have been as
firm a believer in these things as I am if it had
not been shown to me by the spirit and power
of God at an early day, of which I will bear my
testimony:
	I was somewhat troubled in my mind, and as
I was pondering this doctrine, the Spirit of God
rested down upon me and a visible change
seemed to pass over my whole system. My
mind became enlightened so that I could see
and comprehend the principles of eternity, and
in this way I was enabled to see and understand
the sacred and holy principle of sealing, or in
other words, the new and everlasting covenant,
in which I have ever since rejoiced. I have not
language to describe the purity, beauty and
glory which I then saw in every feature of it. I
have ever since looked upon it as one of the
grand pillars on which the salvation and exalta-
tion of the sons and daughters of Adam is rest-
ing, and I would here say to the young and ris-
ing generation, beware how you treat this sub-
ject, lightly or with contempt, as I think it
never fails to bring a punishment on all such
who indulge in it.
	We have a Relief Society, also the Mutual Im-
provement and Primary Associations, in our
little town, all endeavoring to act a good part in
this kingdom. I myself am trying to be faith-
ful in all things, that I may finish up the bal-
ance of my days with honor to myself and the
cause in which I am engaged.
	Wishing you and your valuable paper success
and prosperity, I am,
		Truly your friend and sister,
					SOPHIA M. BURGESS.
	Pine Valley, Washington Co., August 8, 1884.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM LAIE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking some of your readers might be in-
terested in a brief sketch of our recent trip to
the volcano of Kelauea, it is with a degree of
pleasure that I take my pen to write you a few
lines: it is also with a degree of timidity, realiz-
ing that while I have an abundance of material
from which to write an interesting communica-
tion, my descriptive powers are unequal to the
self-imposed task, and will fail, I fear, to give
your readers any idea of the wonders and grand-
eur of a sight of this world-renowned volcano.
	Sister Young and myself left Laie with Presi-
dent Partridge on the morning of the 5th of
July, Saturday, for Honolulu, and were there
met by Brother M. B. Young, who had come
from Kauai to go with us; we met with the
Saints of the Honolulu Branch Sunday morn-
ing and with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
It was our expectation to sail on Tuesday, but
learned on Monday that time of the vessel's sail
ing had been changed, and it would sail that
afternoon at four, the usual hour, so we made a
few hasty preparatians and were ready at the
time appointed. For myself, I went on board
with a feeling of fear and an awful dread of
sickness, not knowing that I would be able to
stand the trip, not having been in the best of
health lately, and it has always been considered
a hard journey for ladies to undertake, but my
very great desire to see this wonder of nature
overcame my fears and induced me to make
the trial. Were it not for the sea-sickness, the
traveling by water would be most enjoyable, as
the vessel sails close to the shore of the different
Islands, one can enjoy the beautiful scenes and
many places of historical interest are pointed
out as we sail along; but we were not out of

[Column 2]
sight of the Island of Oahu, before beautiful
scenery lost its charms and history its interest
for me, and I was obliged to call for a mattress
and retire for the night; still, I was only comfort-
ably sick, as President Partridge calls if, not
nearly so bad as I had been before.
	When morning came the sea was very rough,
and the steward was obliged to delay breakfast
until the sea quieted down a little. The vessel
was now sailing close by the Island of Hawaii
on the Kona side, and we were much interested
in the different landings with the scraps of his-
tory we could get. The first place at which we
stopped was Kailua; at this little place the first
Calvanistic missionaries landed in the year 1820,
President Partridge's aunt and her husband be-
ing among the number. An old stone church
stands on an eminence near the beach, probably
the first one built on the Islands. An old mis-
sion house stands near the church, also a resi-
dence belonging to Queen Emma. On this side
of the Island the mountains slope from the sea-
shore, the whole surface of the country showing
plainly the effects of the work of the volcano.
Up in the very tops of the mountains houses
were built, and occasionally on the mountain
sides; and on looking at the scattered houses I
thought of the travels of the Elders going
around from place to place hunting the people
out from the tops of the mountains and the
rough places, and trying to awaken in their dull
minds an interest in something pertaining to
their spiritual welfare.
	Wednesday morning found us at Punaluu.
Here our voyage on the sea was to end for the
present, and we were thankful enough to step
on land again. By previous arrangement we
were to meet two of the Elders at this place,
Bro F. M. Marchent and V. R. Miller, with
horses for us to ride up to Makaka, a place about
three miles distant; but being one day sooner
than we expected they failed to meet us. We
had some difficulty in finding the place, but fin-
ally succeeded in doing so, and found the broth-
ren at the house of a native, counselor to the
president of the branch. We were hospitably re-
ceived and treated with great kindness and re-
spect. Horses were procured for us and we
started for the volcano at three next morning,
Brothers Marchent and Miller accompanying
us. We enjoyed our ride on land much better
than on the water, and the light of the volcano
seen at a distance increased our anxiety to get
there as soon as possible. We rode along some
ten or twelve miles over grassy hills with trees
and shrubs growing thriftily; then we came to
the lava bed, and were obliged to travel more
slowly, and we began to realize that we were in
the vicinity of a volcano, although we had yet
ten or twelve miles to go. The remainder of
our ride was over the roughest of roads, where
the lava had flowed and cooled in every conceiv-
able shape and form, our horses being obliged to
pick their way carefully. Still the road is a very
good one for that country, much better than we
expected to find.
	A few minutes past twelve we came in sight
of the volcano house and the volcano. As we
neared the house steam and smoke could be
seen issuing from cracks and holes in the ground,
and it was a wild looking place indeed, with the
smoking, blackened mounds two or three miles
away, and while viewing this scene it seemed
almost as if I had wandered away from this
earth, where desolation and the powers
of destruction reign supreme. One thing,
and one only, met our view which ap-
peared fresh and homelike, this was a hedge
of rosebushes, full of lovely, sweet-scented
roses, reminding us of early days at home,
where the fragrant wild roses grew in abun-
dance and beauty. We were soon seated


[Column 1]
by the fire taking the rest we were so much
in need of, as we had a walk of five or six
miles before us.
	After an early dinner the guide informed us
that he was ready to accompany us, and we were
immediately on hand, feeling quite fresh, and
started out in high spirits. The first half mile we
go down a pall or very steep hill into the crater,
the sides being covered with a heavy growth of
grasses and beautifully seeded ferns. Nearly at
the foot of this hill we came suddenly upon a
lone tombstone, which our guide informed us
marked the grave of a young man who went
down to the lake, and being in poor health,
dropped dead at this place when return-
ing. Across the bottom of the crater we
walked about three miles, crossing lava
that had been thrown up about three
weeks prevous to our visit, and from the
crevices of which the hot gas and sulphurous
steam and smoke was still rising. We first visi-
ted the old lake called Halemaumau, which was
not very active, and only spouted up in places,
occasionally throwing the lava several feet into
the air and again dying down. There was a look
of disappointment plainly visible on the faces of
some of our party. After watching this for
a short time the guide proposed taking us to the
"New Lake." We readily consented, following
carefully as he led the way, sometimes over
deep cracks, from which puffs of hot air would
come up into our faces, nearly choking us, while
the rocks felt uncomfortably warm to our feet;
but we followed our guide closely, occasionally
casting anxious glances towards him and hardly
able to suppress a slight scream, as our feet would
break through the thin outer crust and sink
several inches into the cinders beneath. At one
place the gases were so strong that it was im-
possible to breathe freely, and we hurried along
feeling as though we would suffocate before we
could draw a free breath, and were just in time
to hear the guide advise us not to walk too close-
ly together as it was a recent flow over which
we were passing, and pointed to a hole several
feet deep where some tourists had broken
through the day before.
	When we reached the New Lake it was throw-
ing up the molten lava in three or four places,
and its activity seemed to increase. We stood
in almost speechless amazement feasting our
eyes on the sublime spectacle before us. Forgot-
ten were our blistered feet, our weary and ach-
ing limbs, every other feeling being swallowed
up in admiration and wonder. Our speech soon
returned, however, and I remember Sister
Young catching me by the arm and exclaiming,
"Oh! look there, Sister Partridge." And at the
same time I was trying to direct her attention
to some grand display on the other side of the
lake, and so it was with all, each with his or her
gaze fixed on some particular point of interest.
	I wish it were in my power to describe one
tenth part of what we saw; could I do this I
think your readers would be repaid for following
my tiresome account of our little journey.
	As we looked over the lake sometimes it ap-
peared perfectly smooth and black, and then we
would be startled by a jet of flame shooting high
up in the air. This lava is a very peculiar color,
being something the color of blood, with a de-
cided tinge of orange in it, and thickish looking
at times. Lines of fire will be seen running
in every direction over the black surface like
flashes of vivid lightning; these will remain a
few minutes, perhaps, during which time a con-
tinual rising and falling of the liquid lava under
the crust is visible, making the lines of fire
wider and wider, until all is broken up. The
black blocks of cooled lava will be raised up at
one side or corner until they are tipped over into
the boiling lava underneath, and are greedily de

[Column 2]
voured by the fiery elements, and melted again.
At the same time other places will be foaming
and fretting, hissing and blubbering, throwing
the fiery spray high into the air, until you begin
to wonder whether you are at a safe distance or
not. In another part, not far from where we
stood, was a circle of blaze perhaps twenty yards
in circumference, while in the center the crust
was black and hard; and thus it continues,never
appearing twice alike. We were favored with
one view more grandly sublime than all the rest.
While the different changes were taking place
the whole mass seemed to be stirred up from be-
neath, bursting all bound foamed up, spread and
ran in every direction one seething, throbbing
mass of boiling lava, looking for a few minutes
as if it would rise above the banks and flow over;
but after this grand convulsion it gradually set-
tled down again, its surface becoming black as
before.
	Our guide now reminded us that it was past
eight o'clock, and would probably be twelve be-
fore we would again reach the house, thinking,
I suppose, that we would travel more slowly
going back than we did on coming down; but in
this he was mistaken, for although we were loth
to leave so grand a sight, and looked back many
times, and by the flashes of light we saw, im-
agined what a grand display of fireworks was
going on at the lakes, with none to witness the
display, yet we thought somewhat anxiously of
the morrow, and wondered how we would feel
in the morning after such a short night's rest.
We were not slow in retracing our steps until
we came to the Pall; this was the hardest tug
of all, but we succeeded in reaching the house
by half past nine o’clock, and were soon shiver-
ing in bed, but after getting warm slept com-
fortably until five in the morning,when we were
aroused from our slumbers to prepare for an-
other hard day's journey, a ride of twenty-five
miles on horseback. Much depended on our
getting an early start, but the host could not be
prevailed upon to give us breakfast earlier than
six, but we had everything in readiness so that
we could start as soon as breakfast was over, and
half past six found us on our horses and bidding
good bye forever to the volcano and its surround-
ings. Our horses were shivering with cold, and
looked as if they had been poorly fed. The rays
of the rising sun were welcomed by all as they
tinged with golden hues the lofty summit of
Mauna Loa, and caused to glisten the snow cap-
ped peak of Mauna Kea in the distance, which
rises to a height of 13,805 feet, Mauna Loa be-
ing but little inferior, being 13,600 feet above
the sea.
	We stopped at the house of our native friends
a couple of hours for rest and dinner. After
taking leave of Bro. Marchent and the natives,
Bro. Miller going with us to return the horses,
we started for the beach, and only arrived in
time as the last boat was just ready to push off.
	The sea was fearfully rough, the breakers
coming with such force as to shake the platform
upon which we were standing,and sounding like
the report of a cannon as they dashed against
the rock. One boat came very near being
swamped, and it certainly did look dangerous,
but we breathed a silent prayer for protection to
Him who holds the winds and waves in the
hollow of His hand, and stepped into the little
boat without fear, and were conveyed on board
the steamer.
	On our way back we stopped at Wailuku, on
the Island of Maui, and spent a few days very
pleasantly with our sister Kapukini, meeting
with the Relief Society of the place of which
she is the President. We left Maui Saturday
19th, and arrived safely at Honolulu the same
day; left Honolulu for Laie Tuesday; arrived the
same day well satisfied with our journey.

[Column 3]
	Praying that the blessing of heaven may at-
tend you and all those who are laboring for the
cause of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
							S. L. PARTRIDGE.


54	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SENIOR RETRENCHMENT MEETING.

	The ladies simi-monthy meeting was held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly rooms on
Saturday, August 23rd, commencing at 2 p.m.,
President M. I. Horne presiding. After singing
prayer was offered by Mrs. S. S. Young, and after
singing again the minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and approved, and also minutes
of the Primary Associations from the 16th, 11th,
21st and 12th Wards.
	Mrs. Horne expressed her gratitude and pleas-
ure to be able to meet with the sisters once more,
regretted there were no minutes from the Y. L.-
M. I. A. Said since meeting with the sisters
she had been traveling in the settlements, and
had attended a great number of meetings; had
been to Fish Lake to the conference of Y. M. M.
I. A. President Woodruff was there, and, to
her astonishment, gave out an appointment for
herself and Sister Richards to hold meeting.
She then referred to the massacre of the Elders
in Tennessee, and exhorted the sisters to faith-
fulness and diligence; spoke upon the political
situation of the country, and so on.
	Mrs. P. Woodruff was the next speaker; she
also alluded to the persecution the Elders had to
endure who went forth to preach the Gospel,
and the sorrow in the families of those who had
been recently shot in Tennessee, and to the
eventful times in which we live. Earnestly en-
treated all to prepare themselves to enter into
Temples and do the work for the dead; said it
was fifty years this month since she joined the
Church, and referred to some of the events of
that early time; told the sisters she was going
away for a little while to visit relatives in the
east, but would not forget them, and trusted
they would remember her, she hoped to return
in safety.
	Sister H. T. King made a few eloquent re-
marks upon the scenery and places she had visi-
ted in Idaho since she last met with the sisters,
and gave an account of the meetings held there,
of the good feeling among the people, and the
prosperity which had attended their labors in
that remote part of the country. She spoke of
her having been in this valley thirty years, and
had never called in a physician. Dwelt consider-
ably upon the gift of healing the sick by faith,
and said many other good things.
	Dr. Barney said while sitting there the whis-
perings of the Spirit to her were, "Who is on
the Lord’s side, who? Referred to the remarks
of Mrs. Horne to the children upon obedience,
and said the mothers should inculcate faith in
the children; spoke of the gifts of the Gospel,
and said many other good things
	Mrs. S. S. Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs.
Young each spoke a few minutes, and then Mrs.
Horne put the following motion to the meeting:
That the sisters commission Sister Woodruff to
act as a representative of the women of Utah
whereever she may go, to speak in their behalf
and teach the principles of their religion, and ex-
pound doctrine to the people of the world as she
may have opportunity. The vote was unani-
mous. Singing, "May the grace of God our
Savior," Benediction by Mrs. Phebe Woodruff.


"A Woman's Rights Association has just
been formed in Christiana, the capital of Nor-
way. Its programme is to claim for the wom-
en all human rights in general. For married
women, property rights; equal wages for equal
work with men, and the ballot."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 55


[Column 1]

R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		MILLARD STAKE
	The Presidencies of R. S., Y. L. M. and P.
A., in connection with Sisters Horne, Taylor
and Felt, with whom previous arrangements
had been made, effected a visit through Mil-
lard Stake in the interest of the above associa-
tions.
	Sister Horne and company arrived at Leam-
ington June 11th at 2 p.m.; were welcomed by
President Elizabeth Yates, Counselor Lorinda
Thompson, and the good people of Leaming-
ton. Met with the Relief Society and Y. L.
M. I. A. at 4 p.m., which was well attended.
	The following morning Sister Felt met with
the children and organized them into a Pri-
mary Association. They then proceeded to
Oak Creek, where they were joined by Coun-
selor Martha J. Robison, E. R. Robison, Stake
President of Y. L. M. I. A., C. Henry, Secre-
tary, and D. Olsen, Stake President of Pri-
mary Association. The Relief Society and Y.
L. convened at 4 p.m. A spirit of union pre-
vailed; although apparently strangers, all felt
the congenial influence characteristic of the
true Latter-day Saint. The Primary held
meeting at 10 a.m. the following morning,
showing results of good training and able man-
agement.
	At close of meeting, our conveyance being
in waiting, we were soon en route for Desert,
a distance of eighteen miles. The diversified
country, covered with flowers and shrubbery,
somewhat lessened the distance, and in due
time we reached Deseret. The citizens were
laboring under considerable excitement secur-
ing the dam, which loss would insure a failure
of crops, also thousands of dollars already ex-
pended; notwithstanding the unpleasantness of
the occasion, we were welcomed by the warm-
hearted people.
	By previous appointment the Relief Society
convened at 10 a.m., Primary Association at 2
p.m., Y. L. at 4. A full house and a very ex-
cellent and enjoyable time ensued. The Spirit
of God, as many testified, was manifested, the
children performing their part with zest and
good will,  which was truly gratifying. To
meet appointments we were en route at 8 a.m.
the following morning for Kanosh, a distance
of fifty-five miles. The good roads, pleasant
weather and extensive scenery, greatly relieved
the monotonous and tiresome journey. Passing
through Holden, Fillmore and Meadow, ar-
rived at Kanosh at early even. The same fa-
miliar greeting was accorded. The following
day three meetings were held, which were
largely attended, each organization being well
represented, showing a feeling of unity exist-
ing among the people; much valuable instruc-
tion imparted by the sisters. Next morning
returned to Meadow, meeting a similar wel-
come; held three meetings as before, each or-
ganization being well sustained with compe-
tent officers; the instructions were excellent.
After the close of meeting we traveled eight
miles; reached Fillmore at 8 p.m. According
to appointment three meetings were held the
following day successively, Relief Society at 10
a.m., Primary at 2 p.m. and Y. L. 4 p.m.
	The President, L. Robison, of the Y.L. hav-
ing resigned on account of poor health, Sisters
E.S. Taylor and B. A. Robison effected a re-
organization. Meeting was largely attended,
and much of the Spirit of the Lord was felt.
	Sister Horne spoke very plainly upon the
principles of the Gospel; the position of women,
expounding Scripture to verify her remarks.
	Sisters Taylor, Felt and Yates and others
followed in the same humble, instructive way,
that sent a warmth to the heart of every true
Latter-day Saint present and a resolve to en-
deavor to seek more diligently the Kingdom of
God.
	Next morning proceeded to Holden; held
three meetings in their order; each organiza-
tion manifesting an active, lively interest, and
sustained by efficient officers.
	Left Holden the following morning for
Scipio, a distance of fifteen miles. Meetings
held as previously appointed, a good represen-
tation of each association being present; in-
structions filled with the Spirit of God sent
comfort and rejoicing to the hearts of the lis-
teners.
	The tour of the Stake being completed, Sis-
ters Horne, Taylor and Felt took their depar-
ture the following morning for Juab. Many
thanks, dear Sisters, for freely devoting time
to preform so arduous a task. The good re-
sults will long be felt, for no missionary labor
has ever been more effective of good; a bright
future is the recompense, for their works will
follow after.
	Much credit is due also to the Prest. of the
Stake and the Bishops of the various wards for
so kindly assisting us in the discharge of our
duties.
		ELIZABETH YATES, President,
		DELILAH K. OLSEN, Secretary.
	Statistical and financial report given at our
last conference is as follows:
	Officers, 116; Members, 527; Meetings held,
71; Average attendance, 153; WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, 44.
	On hand at date of last report, Cash, $225.-
61; Property, $2696.04; Wheat, 1295 3/4 bushels;
Received, cash $198.85; Property $67.91 1/2;
Wheat, 112 3/4 bushels; Disbursed cash 38.82 1/2;
Property, 12.35; Emigration cash, $6.05; Tem-
ple cash, $8.75; Deseret Hospital, $12.00;
Home industries, $35.45; Property, $24.00;
Missionaries, $8.50; Building, $82.85; Property,
$12.50. On hand, Cash, $187.73; Property,
$2663.73 1/2; Wheat, 1373,5-60 bushels.

		SANPETE STAKE.
	Quarterly Conference of the R. S., Y. L. M.
I. A. and Primary held at Gunnison, Prest. M.
A. P. Hyde presiding. Singing, "Let Zion in
her beauty rise;Prayer by Bishop Bartholomew.
Singing, “Sweet is the work." Minutes and
reports read and approved.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson said that in listen-
ing to the reports, it showed that we were a
united people, and it was our duty to do all we
could for the upbuilding of the kingdom of
God.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde felt thankful in meet-
ing again in conference. It was one year ago
since she was in the Hospital and the surgeons
gave her no encouragement whatever, but she
trusted in a higher power, and was now able to
walk without aid. Rejoiced in hearing the
good counsel given to-day; hoped all would ob-
serve family prayer, for it was our soul's salva-
tion.
	Sister Rebecca Wareham spoke on silk cul-
ture; thought Utah would yet be a great silk
growing country. Advised the sisters to perse-
vere and not feel like giving it up. Asked the
blessing of heaven to rest upon each and every
one, and upon our children. Felt that heaven
would be incomplete without them. Felt
thankful when Sister Hyde was speaking to see
her so well again, for she has so much faith in
the power of God, etc.
	Verbal reports were given by the presidents
of their respective wards. Singing, prayer,
conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	2 p.m. Opening exercises as usual. Sister
Jane C. Snow said that at the time of Joseph
Smith's martyrdom in Nauvoo she was follow-
ing behind a team. There was thunder and
lightning and intense darkness, and all nature
groaned, for he was a true Prophet of God.
	Bishop Madsen spoke with much kindness to
the sisters.
	Brother Schofield of Spring City said the

[Column 3]

sisters were nurses unto the sick,and wished he
could say doctors as well, instead of sending
for some professed doctor to administer deadly
poison unto them. Prayed the blessings of
God to rest upon the sisters and all those who
have the welfare of Zion at heart.
	Singing by the Congregation, "The Spirit of
God." Benediction. Conference adjourned to
meet at Fountain Green, September 12th and
13th, 1884.
			MARY HYDE, Secretary,
		NORA ROBINSON, Asst. Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE

ALMO, Cassia Co., Idaho.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have a few words to say about this remote
region where I am staying for a short time that
I wish to appear in the columns of our little
paper, the EXPONENT. First, it is a wild but
beautiful country, the atmosphere seems the
very breath of heaven; so clear, pure, cool and
invigorating, even in these dog days! The in-
habitants are so widely separated, that nothing
but love and joy are exhibited when they meet;
and I feel many could endure a close approxi-
mation and association and retain all their
good feelings, for the very spirit of the place
breathes of peace and good will. Freedom and
liberty reign supreme; God and conscience be-
ing the "powers that be."
	Sunday, August 3rd, 1884, a large meeting
was held in the new school house, Bishop B.
Haight, and Bros. Martindale and Grant being
on the stand, also the President, Bro. Durfee, and
Thos. O. King. There was excellent speaking
and teaching and it was mooted that a Sunday
School and Relief Society should be organized.
Names were presented for nomination, and 5
o'clock was named for re-assembling. During
recess 19 persons were baptized, and a large as-
sembly again convened at 5 o'clock, according
to appointment. Meeting opened with prayer
by Thos. O. King, speaking by the brethren on
the stand, then confirmation of the newly bap-
tized, followed by ordaining those selected to
officiate in the Sunday School, and setting the
sisters apart for their offices in the Relief So-
ciety. A sweet, humble and peaceful spirit
presided over all throughout the ceremonies.
	The Bishop then addressed the meeting in a
few words and called on some to express their
feelings; he was responded to by Bro. Durfee,
Cole, aud Thos. O. King. The Bishop then
called upon Sister H. T. King to express her
feelings, which she did out of the fulness of her
heart. Meeting was then dismissed, the bene-
diction pronounced by Thos. O. King. Bishop
Haight returned with us to the house of Bro.
King, where he stayed the night, leaving after
breakfast Monday morning. He is a very
kind, wise man, and is much beloved by the
whole settlement.
	On Thursday I attended the first Relief So-
ciety held in this region, Sister Mary Anne
Wake presiding, with her counselors, Sisters
Dennis Durfee and Anne Lowe. Teachers,
Sisters Dorcas King, Durfee, Graham, Ed-
wards and others.
	There was a sweet, even childlike spirit in
that first meeting! Each felt desirous to do her
part, yet felt her inefficiency to carry out the
desires of her heart; but every one must have
realized the Spirit of God was in that meeting
and that infant society; and hence we knew it
must be a success. Each one felt it had been
a time of refreshing. As one expressed herself
to me, "I feel so much better than I did when
I came."
	All were separately called upon to arise and
express their feelings, and every one arose at
last, though it was evidently the trial of their
life to arise and hear the sound of their own


voices; but all conquered themselves and felt
blessed in doing so.
	I have been received in this region of coun-
try with open hearts by all, and with open
arms by many. They said, "I have known
you so long by your writings."
	My visit has been a time of refreshing to me
which I much needed, and the only drawback
is that I live in my home so far away from such
a host of honest, loving spirits, entirely free
from the trammels of conventional society, yet
nothing wanting in that etiquette which con-
sists in endeavoring to make all happy in the
associations of daily life. I have sold ten dol-
dar's worth of my "Epic Poem" here, I could
have sold as many more could I have visited
the surroundings, but I was not strong enough
to take repeated long journeys, and the rail has
not yet reached this remote region nearer than
Kelton, so we have to bow as usual to the inev-
itable.
	On Monday, the 13th, I arrived home—sweet
home. As soon as I reached Main Street I felt
the increased heat of the atmosphere, but the
spirit of love and kindness met me on my ar-
rival, and with that life is ever joyous and
satisfactory.
					HANNAH T. KING.


56	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Secretaries of Relief Society are notified to
send in semi-annual reports by the 15th of Sep-
tember.
	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annu-
al stake reports carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of Sep.,
that a complete and satisfactory report may be
made to the General Conference in October.
Direct the reports to Mrs. E. S. Taylor, P. O.
Box 629, Salt Lake City, Utah.
					LOUIE M. WELLS.
				Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"The experience of Cornell University, New
York, in the matter of co-education, is said to
show that young women bear the strain of
mental work as well as men, and the percent-
age of sickness is not greater. A larger pro-
portion of women complete the course, and the
average of scholarship is higher than among
men."

	Washington, August 18th.—Mary Clemmer
Ames (Mrs.Hudson) died at her residence in this
city to-night of hemorrhage of the brain. She
had been too ill and feeble for several months
to keep up her usual literary work, but it was
not until last Wednesday that the rupture of a
blood vessel in the brain produced complete
prostration, ending finally in death.

	"At Johnstown, N.Y., Aug. 8, a Convention
of the people of Fulton County was held at
the court house to consider the County's atti-
tude towards the Woman Suffrage Bill. The
attendance was very large. Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Miss Margaret Wells, Miss Su-
san B. Anthony, and Miss Lillie Devereux
Blake were among the speakers. A resolution
was passed calling on the Senator and Assem-
blyman to work for the bill."


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	The 23th of July, the 66th birthday of Patriarch B. F.
Johnson, was celebrated in the following manner by
his wives and children: He was escorted to the bowery
by his sons, where, to his surprise, he found his family
seated in order at the table loaded with good things,
awaiting his appearance. He entered; took his seat at
the head, over which an arch had been formed and dec-
orated with fruit and flowers, and the flag of our coun-


ry behind. He pronouned it a complete surprise,
then gave thanks to our Father in heaven. 
	After partaking of supper, the Patriarch arose and
said that all who have entered into the celebration of my
birthday with love and good feeling, I say, God bless
you, and I bless you in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
	Of his children fifty-five absent. One hundred
and nine of the company belonged to his family. A
few useful gifts were presented, and a piece of poetry
written by a friend, expressing good wishes and that he
might always have the love of his children, was then
read.
	The evening was spent in dancing, himself cheerfully
joining in the excercise. All said the party was the most
enjoyable of any for many years.
	The Patriarch received the Gospel when sixteen years
of age, and has ever since been a lover of its principles,
and has instilled the love of the same into the hearts of
his children, for which now they return him thanks. He
is man of great enterprise and extensive labors: he has
a large and comprehensive mind and is a benefactor to
his people.
	Our Ward is fully organized with Relief Society,
Young Folks' Mutual and Primary, which are well at-
tended, and all seem to realize the importance of doing
their duty as presented. We are always pleased to re-
ceive the EXPONENT, and think everybody should read
it. Lovingly your sister in the truth,
								J. D. W.
	Tempe, Arizona.


PRIMARY PARTY.

ST. DAVID, Cochise Co., Arizona.

     St David Primary met with their picnic at 2 p.m. at
the residence of Pres. R. S. Merrill, to celebrate her 47th
birthday. They opened with singing and prayer and
then proceeded with recitations, select readings, singing
and Bible questions. President Rhoda S. Merrill, with
a heart full of joy, gave the children good instruction,
hoping when they grew to be the age she was, that they
might have as much honor shown them; also thanked
them for the presents that they had so kindly presented
to her. Twelve of the children joined together and
bought a nice set of glass ware; she also had many nice
presents, numbering twenty three in all. During a re-
cess they amused themselves playing games, then re-
turned to the house and partook of their picnic.
     They all enjoyed themselves very much. There were
sixty children present, the total number being seventy,
including the older people. Two little boys presented
compliments on the occasion.

     Dear Aunt Rhoda, I wish you a long life and a happy
one, that you may rejoice in teaching the Primary.
This is the wish of one of your number, and hope all
will be; and may God bless you. 
							PAUL H. BEEBE.

     Dear President, I hope that your days may be long
upon the earth, and when you pass behind the veil may
you be crowned in glory. This is the wish of your little
servant, 					SAMUEL K. BEEBE.
RHODA S. MERRILL, President,
ESTHER J. MERRILL; Secretary.


HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least, give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSRS. SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guaruntee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does no give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
				SMITH & CASE
P.O. Box 50 . 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE.
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, BOX 308, SALT LAKE CITY. 
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.		"
POEMS, by E.R.Snow, Vol. 1,		-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containging steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith an Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -		1.50		"
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON 
	Office and residence, Main Street, in  new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
		SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

		MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
		OFFICE IN CODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Residence, Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
		Special Attention given to Diseases of the
	EYE, EAR, NOSE, AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Lesidence.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.	C.	M.	I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACE, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assorment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special deparment for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY,
 Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1884.


[FOR THE EXPONENT.]

UP AND NOT DOWN THE HILL OF
LIFE.

Some say 'tis down the hill of life
That we are traveling, dear old wife,
And that the heights are long since past,
And we are failing--failing fast.
But 'tis not true--this what they say--
Though they cry yea, I answer, nay!
I say 'tis up the hill we go,
And while we travel I ought to know.

Don't we look  back, as we ascend,
Over the journey clear to the end?
Cannot we see, though our eyes are dim,
All of the past unknown to them?
Cannot we feel we are drawing near
Those who are gone to the higher sphere?
Nearer the treasures we lost long ago?
They are above, and not below.

True, this old clay is crumbling fast,
True, that for long it cannot last.
But there's within a something yet
Grows ever stronger as up we get-
Traveling upward is the soul
Traveling upward the soul
Higher and higher towards the goal--
Hand in hand, my dear old wife,
Up to the future better life.
 						E. STEPHENS.


A SABBATH IN TENNESSEE.

     The quiet, still Sunday air, in a log cabin in
the State of Tennessee, was filled with the
sweet strains of sacred music. A few were
gathering together preparatory to divine wor-
ship. The hearts of those in that humble
dwelling were filled with peace and love to-
wards each other, and towards the whole hu-
man race.
    Those were there who had left their pleasant
homes, their wives and children, sisters and
brothers, fathers and mothers and friends dear
to them, in the vales of the rugged mountain
tops of Utah, to preach life and salvation to
those who sat in darkness, that know not God,
but who must hear of the truth of the Gospel.
So then had they come bringing glad tidings
of great joy, words that the Lord himself had
given-- that a new dispensation was opened.
They preached faith, repentance, and baptism
for the remission of sins, the laying on of 
hands that they might receive the Holy Ghost,
as they did anciently. They laid the plan of
salvation before the people; they could choose
for themselves. If those they preached to had
faith, repented of their sins and were baptized
by one holding authority from God, handed
down by John the Baptist, then had they en-
tered by the only door, and were on the straight
and narrow way that leads to life eternal.
Then angels rejoiced that some of the children
of mortals had obeyed the truth, while Satan
and his emissaries raged that their power and
influence were diminishing, and that more had
been snatched from their evil clutches. Seek-
ing those that listed the evil one to obey, they
stirred up their minds to hatred and envy, and
planted therein the foul, dark thought of mur-
der. Painting up the characters of these inno-
cent men with the deepest colors of iniquity,
they transformed the peaceful into the troubled
and the virtuous into the abominable. Such-
was their power. Their priests denounced
them and by every art, themselves misinformed,
strove to impart to their hearers, by quotations
from vile productions, their hatred against the

[column 2]
quiet, self-sacrificing missionaries of the Latter-
day Saints.
    The hymn was sung by the friends gathered
together in that log cabin; the last sweet note
was sounded. A missionary had taken up the
sacred Bible, when a murderous mob in furious
hate rushed to the gate. One came in, unslung
a shot gun from the wall and shot the unoffend-
ing missionary under the arm. He clutched the
wound, fell against the bed and died. No
word escapted his lips; he died a martyr to the
cause of truth.
    With demoniac rage another of the mob
took aim at another missionary, and while his
comrade grasped the rifle to keep it from
deadly execution, he fell himself to the floor,
shot by the infuriated mob, and died without a
struggle. A youth was the next fictim, his
only crime a belief in the principles of salva-
tion and befriending the Saints.
    At his fall his warm-hearted, impulsive
brother shot the murderer. "I'll have revenge,"
was heard, and young Hudson fell mortally
wounded.
    As if this work of death was not enough to
satisfy the insatiate spirit of murder, the mob
fired a volley through the window, which hit
the mother of the boys and entered the dead
body of Elder William S. Berry.
     They left, and anguish for their cruel be-
reavement and care for the wounded, occupied
those that were still left alive from the awful
massacre. One missionary alone escaped, by
fleeing to the protection of the woods.
    This dark deed was in a land of liberty, in
a time of peace, in an enlightened age, in a
nation that boasts its freedom, and invites the
inhabitants of other climes to dwell in this far-
famed land of peace. How has liberty fallen?
Mourn ye people of the nation for the trans-
gression of your laws, for the rampant spirit
of murder that stains your fair land with the
blood of innocence, that will assuredly cry un-
to heaven against the participants, and those
that appluad the act. Mourn for the trouble
that will befall you, mourn for the desolation
that awaits you, by earthquakes, lightnings,
tornadoes and pestilence, unless you turn and
repent. Mourn for the evil days that are com-
ing. "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay,"
saith the Lord, and His words are sure.
    We mourn with the widows, the fatherless,
the brothers and sisters, the parents and the
aged mother, who loved the martyred ones.
    They have sealed their testimonies with their
blood. Their exaltation is sure. A glorious
reward will be theirs, and a martyr's crown will
they wear. They are where no power can
hurt them now.
				EMILY B. SPENCER.


MUSIC.

 There is a great power in music! Among
the fine arts this has the strongest effect upon
the human character. No lover of music can
help but be moved by its influence, no matter
in what shape it comes, though it has its differ-
ent effects upon the human mind. Who has
not had his heart melted into tenderness and
the fountain of his tears broken up by some
touching appeal of melody? Even the savage
who will stand mute and dumb in gazing upon
the most beautiful painting or piece of archi-
tecture, may be famed or subdued by the over-
powering influence of music.


And at church, what will concentrate the
minds of the audience on God more than a
beautiful hymn or anthem?  What a grand ef-
fect martial music has upon the soldier; how
quick one martial strain will convert cowardice
to bravery?  The pale cheek glows with excite-
ment and desire for approaching combat; the
whole man is changed, and at the inspiring call
of fife and drum he boldly marches against the
foe. How it thrills the dancer till the weary
feet forget their weariness as they move to and
fro by its magic spell.
	What sound will have as great an effect as
the hoot of an owl when you are in a melan-
choly frame of mind, say, for instance, when
you are alone in the dusk of evening, when you
prefer your  company to that of any other,
then the hooting of the owl has a blending
with your own feelings, and any other sound at
that moment would grate upon your feelings!
This is not confined to mankind alone, the ani-
mal creation is worked upon by its powerful in-
fluence. The slimy reptile, the enemy of man,
is brought into submission by its charms.  The
howling, gnashing, roaring beast is subdued by
its power.  God ordained this one art to be a 
blessing, a comfort, caused it to penetrate every
fibre of every living thing; and why should we
not cultivate this one great charm?  We read
of angels singing sweet songs and playing
sweet strains upon their harps of gold around
the throne of God.  We all can feel how glor-
ious this must be.
	To God we owe this choice blessing, a bless-
ing that brings peace and love; and may we all
have the pleasure of touching the strings of
the golden harps in the heaven above.
						J. E. CHILDS.
	Manuscript Paper, The Home Writer, Y.L.
M.I.A., Orangeville, Emery Co.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The recognition of sin is the beginning of
salvation.—Luther.

	Crimes sometimes shock us too much; vices,
almost always too little.—Hale.

	The best and noblest lives are those which
are set toward high ideals. And the highest
and noblest ideal that any man can have is
Jesus of Nazareth.—Almeron.

	Jenny Lind, the renowned singer, is spend-
ing the autumn of her days in a charming
home which she purchased last year at Wind's
Point, Eng. It is a romantic spot, and looks
upon the scene of the Tewksbury fight,
Gloucester, Cheltenham, Shakespeare's Avon,
the beacon tower that gave forth its light to
tell the anxious Parliament in London that
Charles was defeated in the fight at Edgehill,
and other points of historic interest. It is one
of the most notable homes in England.

	Good men have tried the Bible; in youth
and in old age; in sickness and in health; in
business and at home; in life and in death.
Lawyers have tried it; statesmen have tried it;
society has tried it in its charities, its educa-
tion and its laws; but it is not worn out; it is
not affected; it is ever young and never old; it
is the Lord's Book; we need no other; the long-
er it is tried the more satisfactorily it is proved
the Word of the Lord, which abideth forever.
—Dr. Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR-WHITNEY.
(Continued.)

	Colonel Kane, as before stated, was convales-
cent. The only cause of his sending to Fort
Leavenworth for a physician was his anxiety
for his Mormon friends, fearing that a relapse
might take him off, and his death might be
laid to their charge. He came among us with
the intention of learning the facts concerning
the strange people who had been so terribly
persecuted, and were now exiles from their
homes, and the spots doubly sacred—the rest-
ing place of their dear ones, and after all the
sorrows and suffering endured at the hands of
the government, they had willingly responded
to the first call.
	Thus was explained the act of his standing
eaves-dropping by the side of our tent, on his
first arrival at the camp. There was nothing
that seemed to escape his notice. The little
children who came around Brother Jede-
diah's tent, where he was nursed during his
sickness, were objects of interest. One of
Mother Whitney's little ones, a beautiful, fair,
curly haired boy, who was just recovering from
a severe illness, was one that attracted his at-
tention. As he was only a few rods from us
the child was often seen at the tent door where
he lay, or as he sat under the bower outside.
	The next spring there came to his friends
numerous and various tokens of remembrance.
Among them was a box containing fishing
tackle, etc., which was sent to the little fair-
haired Whitney boy; also the old nurse who
was living in Bishop Whitney's family—Aunt
Sabry Granger—was remembered to a large
box of superior black tea. As she parted
with a portion of it, my mother purchased a
few pounds, and I, being among the invalids,
was daily treated to this delicious beverage.
None were forgotten who had made his ac-
quaintance, or done him the slightest favor.
The presents, though, did not arrive till after
the pioneers had left.
	I take the following extracts from Colonel
Kane's Historical Discourse, delivered March
26th, 1850, as he gives the most interesting and
accurate description of what he termed the
"Tabernacle camps:"
	"The character of their everyday life, its
routine and conduct, alone offered any exclu-
sive or marked peculiarity. Their romantic
devotional observances, and their admirable
concert of purpose and action, met the eye at
once. After these the stranger was most
struck, perhaps, by the strict order of march,
the unconfused closing up to meet attack, the
skillful securing of the cattle upon the halt,
the system with which the watches were set at
night to guard them and the lines of the corral
—with other similar circumstances indicative
of the maintenance of a high state of disci-
pline.		*		*		*		*
The most striking feature, however, of the
Mormon emigration was, undoubtedly, their
formation of the Tabernacle camps and tem-
porary stakes or settlements, which renewed in
the sleeping solitudes, everywhere along their
road, the cheering signs of intelligent and
hopeful life.
	"I will make this remark plainer by des-
cribing to you one of these camps, with the
daily routing of its inhabitants. I select, at
random, for my purpose, a large camp upon
the delta between Nebraska and Missouri, in
the Territory disputed between the Omaha and
Otto and Missouri Indians. It remained
pitched here for nearly two months, during
which time I resided in it.		*		*
	"The wagons, as they arrived, took their posi-
tions along its four sides in double rows, so as
to leave a roomy street or passage way between
them. The tents were disposed also in rows at

[Column 2]
intervals between the wagons. The cattle
were folded in high fenced yards outside; the
quadrangle inside was left vacant for the
sake of ventilation, and the streets covered in
with leafy arbor work, and kept scrupulously
clean, formed a shaded cloister walk. This
was the place of exercise for slowly recovering
invalids, the day-home of the infants, and the
evening promenade of all.
	"From the first foundation of the camp all
its inhabitants were constantly and laboriously
occupied. Many of them were highly edu-
cated mechanics, and seemed only to need a
day's anticipated rest to engate them at the
forge, loom, or turning lathe, upon some need-
ed chore of work.	*	*	*	I have
had a piece of cloth, the wool of which was
sheared, and dyed, and spun and woven during
a progress of over three hundred miles.
	The chiefs were seldom without some curi-
ous affair on hand to settle with the restless
Indians; while the immense labor and respon-
sibility of the conduct of their unwieldly mov-
ing army, and the commissariat of its hun-
dreds of famishing poor also devolved upon
them. They had good men they called Bishops,
whose special office it was to look up the cases
of extremest suffering, and their relief parties
were out night and day to scour over every
trail.		*		*		*		*		*
	"A strong trait of the Mormons was their
kindness to their brute dependents, and particu-
laraly to their beasts of draught. They gave
them the holiday of the Sabbath whenever it
came round. I believe they would have
washed them with old wine after the example
of the emigrant Carthaginians, had they had
any.	*	*	The great mass of these pilgrims of
the desert were made up of poor folks, who had
fled in destitution from Nauvoo and been re-
fused a resting place by the people of Iowa.
	"It is difficult to fully understand the state
of helplessness in which some of these would
arrive after accomplishing a journey of such
extent, under circumstances of so much priva-
tion and peril.		*		*		*		*
	"Beside the common duty of guiding and as-
sisting these unfortunates, the companies in the
van united in providing the highway for the
entire body of emigrants. The Mormons
have laid out for themselves a road through
the Indian Territory, over four hundred
leagues in length, with substantial, well built
bridges, fit for the passage of heavy artillery,
over all the streams except a few great rivers,
where they have established permanent ferries.
The nearest unfinished bridging to the Papillon
camp was that of the "Conne a Cerf," or Elk
Horn, a tributary of the Platte, distant, may-
be, a couple of hours' march. Here, in what
seemed to be an incredibly short space of
time, there rose the seven great piers and abut-
ments of a bridge, such as might challenge
honors for the entire public-spirited population
of Lower Virginia. The party detailed to the
task worked in the broiling sun, in water be-
yond depth, and up to their necks, as if en-
gaged in the perpetration of some pointed and
delightful practical joke. The chief sport lay
in floating along with the logs, cut from the
overhanging timber up the stream, guiding
them til they reached their destination, and
then plunging them under water in the precise
spot where they were to be secured. This the
laughing engineers would execute with the
agility of happy diving ducks."


A TRIP TO THE MOUNTAINS.

	Hurry! hurry! first one parcel and then an-
other (for nothing must be forgotten), then we
will be off to spend the 24th of July in the 
mountains; babies dressed, wrapped and put in
the wagon, and at last everything is ready and
we are on the road.  Oh, how warm the sun
beats down upon us, and the dust, how it flies


in our faces, but soon we are at the mouth of
the canyon and now we begin to feel the cool
canyon breeze, and oh, how refreshing it is; how
we enjoy it, even the babies seem to appreciate
getting where it is cool.  But here we have one
disadvantage, the rocky roads, although they
are good canyon roads, yet rough enough to
shake one considerably; but still we enjoy it
all, the rough roads, the cool breeze and the
beautiful scenery.
	Here the road winds along a clear stream,
bordered with green grass and moss, with flow-
ers blooming here and there, with gigantic
rocks on either side of us looking as though
they were about to give way and fall upon us,
and finally, when horses and children are alike
tired, we camp; next we build a camp fire and
proceed to get supper, but, unlike some, we do
not fret over our complexions, so if the fire
heats and reddens our faces it does not inter-
fere with our pleasure as we hasten our sup-
per and retire.
	Awake with the sun, get breakfast and re-
sume our journey and about 10 o'clock, tired
and jaded, reach our destination, the saw and
shingle mills, situated in a beautiful spot in the
tops of the mountains, with four or five fami-
lies residing in small cabins, cooking for the
mill hands.  How beautiful every thing looks
around us, beautiful flowers, stately trees, war-
bling birds, and a babbling brook rushing over
rocks, winding around here and there, and
finally disappearing in the distance.
	After enjoying the scenery a short time, we
endeavor to erase some of the travel stains and
rest ourselves for the morrow.  As evening ap-
proached we found it quite cold, in fact shawls
were quite comfortable; some retired as soon as 
possible.
	At day break we were awakened by the sa-
lute of artillery and music by the brass band,
under the leadership of Bro. S. R. Jenks.  At
sunrise the stars and stripes were raised, with
music from the band, which sounded sweet, al-
though there was only a part of our band
there, those few were working at the mill and
happened to have their instruments with them.
As soon as possible we gathered togetehr and
prepared to cook dinner and all dine together,
the men preparing a shady place where we could
spread a table large enough for all to sit down.
We then partook of a hearty dinner; all seemed
to be full of sport and to enjoy themselves.  Af-
ter dinner we all proceeded to a large reservoir,
where they had a raft prepared and we all
enjoyed a ride on the water, both old and
young, large and small.  We were also enter-
tained with music form the band.  Those who
have heard sweet music on the water can imagine
how sweet and heavenly it sounded. There
were also a number of songs sung by the assem-
bly, one was very nice and was composed that
morning for the occasion by Josie E. Childs.
	After spending the day pleasantly we re-
turned to the houses and spent another cool
night in the mountains, and the next day re-
turned to our homes in the hot and dusty val-
ley, tired, hungry, and dusty, where we felt to
say with the Nens, oh, for a lodge in some vast
wilderness of ice cream and shade trees!
					AGGIE CHILDS.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., Aug. 4th.


Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton contributed an
able article to the September North American
Review on "The Need of Liberal Divorce laws."

	Know thy opportunity; prepare for it.  Break
stone, if it be thy business, for the chariot-
wheels of princes. You may be called to ride
before the sun sets.-- Providence Journal.

	There is the law of benefits between men:  the
one ought to forget at once what he has given,
and the other ought never to forget what he
has received.-- Seneca.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HELEN AND VIRGINIA.
			[Continued.]

From him, for Helen's sake alone.
Then Helen weighed in her own soul
The honor, loyalty, in theirs;
	She knew they dearer held her peace
Than their own love, as yet untold,
	And she must bring them their release.

"A year has come and gone since she
Became one of our household band.
One of us? Yes, for never more
	Could life be just the same again,
When first I took her by the hand
	Our spirit﻿s mated, blended then.

"When first I looked in her gray eyes
And met their pure and steadfast truth,
The lips so firm, the brow so calm,
	Her manner gentle, full of grace
Beyond her circumstance' and youth,
	E'en when I loved the stranger's face.

"When winter came my heart could not
Deny her shelter, aye, and love!
Winter has passed, and now 'tis spring,
	And nature all around me wakes
And lifts its offering above--
	Only my soul delaying breaks

"The universal law of God,
Shall not my heart pour forth like spring
An offering to creation's God?
	Or shall I still delaying yield
But fruitless shade to those who cling
	Like I, to laws and hopes revealed?

"When travel worn and hungry, came
Our blessed Lord, where branching stood
The barren fig tree by the way,
	He cursed the tree that mocked His need;
Then, thou my soul that knoweth good
	From evil, this same lesson heed.

"And what is human love that we
Sould count it all, and prize it o'er
God's higher love our best reward?
	Were earth love all, 'twould bondage be,
And life a game of chance, no more--
	But knowledge raises, makes us free.

Shall I, when these brief years are past,
And higher spheres of life are won,
Repining count earth's pleasures o'er
	As misers count their shining gold?
No, I shall drop them one by one
	For joys more sweet an hundred fold.

"What shall it matter in that time
The trials we chafe o'er to-day?
Only if we were overcome,
	Or if we saw beneath disguise,
The tempter luring us this way,
	And won at last, by faith, the prize.

O life! so brief thy sweetest days,
So vain thy promises to all,
So frail the staff that thou dost lend;
	Thou art but token of the goal
To lead us where no more shall fall
	From reach the hopes that guide the soul."

There came at last to Helen's heart
The time to speak.  The warm, bright day
Was nearly gone, and Helen's dear
	And only sister say with them,
And spoke in musing absent way,
	Gazing down toward her garment's hem,

"Dear Helen, have you chance to think
How swift the year has passed away
Since you were in Virginia here?
	Supposed you let her come to me
As long as she should choose to stay;
	Perhaps a change might pleasant be.

Looking not in Virginia's face
To not its sudden, pained suprise
Helen quick answered, for her heart
	Knew well how deep her words would fall;
"Sister, I think a change unwise,
	There's pleasure here enough for all."

Virginia softly left the room,
And Helen's sister in amaze
Turned in her chair with searching look.
	A thought stole slowly o'er her mind, 
But naught in Helen's quiet gaze
	Confirmed the vision scarce defined.

"Dear Helen, have you thought what weight
And meaning your few words might bear
To this young girl?" Then Helen paled,
	But answered her with steady tome,
"Yes, sister, I am well aware;
	For many months my heart has known

"Their fullest import; I have come
To where the path at last divides,
And I must choose the path of test,
	Or turn aside renouncing all.
My God supports, my heart decides
	To follow where His voice doth call."


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

Continued.

	Perhaps the next most notable event that
occurred in Sister Presendia's history was when
her son left Utah to go and join his brother in
the east, who had offered him some induce-
ments if he would leave the Saints and come
and live in Missouri. When President Wells
went on his mission to England, Oliver drove
his team to the frontier. Sister Presendia says
no mortal being knows what she suffered in
her feelings at that time. The son who had
been with her in all her travelings, the only
one she brought with her from her home, now
to voluntarily forsake her and leave the valley
after all these years seemed more than she
could bear. Some years later the two brothers,
George and Oliver came to Salt Lake and
made their mother a visit.
	In 1867 Sister Vilate Kimball was called
hence after a most severe and suffering illness.
Sister Presendia assisted in waiting upon her
in her last hours, and helped her daughter
Helen prepare the body for burial after death.
	In June, 1868, President Heber C. Kimball
died. Sister Presendia felt she had lost her
protecter and her nearest and dearest friend,
but she had the Spirit of the Lord to enable
her to rise superior to the affliction, and she
went about her daily duties with a spirit of
patient resignation and heavenly calm.
 	June 15, 1868, a Relief Society was organ-
ized in the 16th Ward, where Sister Presendia
resided, by Bishop Kesler, and she was chosen
to fill the position of Secretary, which she has
held ever since. At the organization Sister
Sarah M. Kimball was present and had brought
a book containing the minutes of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, called
by the President, Joseph Smith, when Sister
Presendia was admitted as a member, and some
great promises were made to her.
	In May, 1870, a curious incident happened,
which it seems proper to relate in connection
with this venerable woman:
	One night, about half past eleven o'clock,
disturbed by a knock or the sound of footsteps,
Sister Kimball went to the door and discovered
a bundle lying on the step of the door. She
says she knew instinctively it was a child, and
before opening it she felt positive it was a girl.
She received it as a gift from heaven, and bes-
towed upon it the most tender care. It was
blessed by Apostle Joseph F. Smith, and given
the name Josephine. The foster mother
fondly hoped to rear this little one to woman-
hood to supply in part the place of the one
that had been so suddenly called away, but
alas, the little creature was frail and delicate,
and in spite of the love and affectionate solici-
tude bestowed upon the little one, who had
been cast off by her own mother, she, too was
taken to a better and purer world.
	In 1871, Joseph, Sister Presendia's young-
est son, married Lathilla, daughter of Elder
Orson Pratt. This marriage pleased Sister
Presendia, she felt Miss Pratt would be a good
and true companion for her son. Not lon

[Column 2]
after Sister Presendia was summoned to go
east to the death bed of her son Oliver, who
was afflicted with cancer. His wife was con-
fined the night she arrived. She staid there
and waited upon her son until his sufferings
were over, he died April 22nd, 1872. And
then after assisting his wife to set her house
in order and arrange her affairs, went and
made a visit to her son George before re-
turning home. When she came back she
brought her two little grandsons Fredrick 11
and George 9 years of age. Joseph and
his wife kept house for her in her absence,
and soon after her return Joseph and wife
moved to Meadowville, in Bear Lake Val-
ley, where he has since been appointed Bishop,
a circumstance which must have been very
gratifying to his mother who had endured so
many cruel disappointments in regard to her
children. From this time, however, the wheel
of fortune seemed to have taken a favorable
turn, and her life seemed to have become more
prosperous and happy, yet more active still in
spiritual work.
	It might, perhaps, be well to state in this
connection that Sister Presendia is almost daily
sent for to administer to the sick, devoting a
large part of her time to this particular duty.
The laying out of the dead and dressing them
is a work to which she seems especially adapted.
It is a little singular that she has performed
the last offices of this nature for all the wives
of Heber C. Kimball that have died except
one. Theresa, Mary, Louisa, Sarah, Sarah
Ann, Anna and Ellen.
	No woman could feel more enthusiasm in
her labor among the sisters that Sister Presen-
dia, and her labors justly appreciated. It
is a grand and noble calling to alleviate suffer-
ing and to console the sorrowing. Blessing
others she is herself blessed.


<i .="" r5)-7-="" a="" r="" ,pa?agity="" i="" and="" .opportunity.,="" ".hi:t'1="" :="" 1="" 4‘you="" pould="" never,="" do="" any="" tiling--but,="" .that.”="" how.="" often="" are="" -those="" wofds="" thought,‘.ifnot="" spokenandwhen="" spoken,="" how="" oi't$n="" they="" pro-="" jducea="" feeling="" of="" contempt.and,-angejf,at.the="" speaker;="" when="" the="" fatter="" is="" cause="" it.="" we'hear="" "such="" thing="" oreffort="" being="" perfect="" success,="" when,="" if="" we="" examine="" if,-if="" was="" partly="" insured="" by="" hdaptation’and="" that="" adapta-="" tion="" surrounded="" favorable="" circumstances,="" one="" is,of="" little="" conseqlittlee="" withdut="" other,="" but="" combined="" easily="" produce="" --what-often="" v;seams="" to.="" us="" perfection;t'.ieilt="" no="" where="" .thb="" ipro.rei="" noticeable-="" than-in="" o.urgefves.wien="" person,="" is.naturally="" consti-="" tuted="" to="" pursue="" path.it="" h="" hard,tq;walk="">CAPACITY<i .="" r5)-7-="" a="" r="" ,pa?agity="" i="" and="" .opportunity.,="" ".hi:t'1="" :="" 1="" 4‘you="" pould="" never,="" do="" any="" tiling--but,="" .that.”="" how.="" often="" are="" -those="" wofds="" thought,‘.ifnot="" spokenandwhen="" spoken,="" how="" oi't$n="" they="" pro-="" jducea="" feeling="" of="" contempt.and,-angejf,at.the="" speaker;="" when="" the="" fatter="" is="" cause="" it.="" we'hear="" "such="" thing="" oreffort="" being="" perfect="" success,="" when,="" if="" we="" examine="" if,-if="" was="" partly="" insured="" by="" hdaptation’and="" that="" adapta-="" tion="" surrounded="" favorable="" circumstances,="" one="" is,of="" little="" conseqlittlee="" withdut="" other,="" but="" combined="" easily="" produce="" --what-often="" v;seams="" to.="" us="" perfection;t'.ieilt="" no="" where="" .thb="" ipro.rei="" noticeable-="" than-in="" o.urgefves.wien="" person,="" is.naturally="" consti-="" tuted="" to="" pursue="" path.it="" h="" hard,tq;walk=""><i .="" r5)-7-="" a="" r="" ,pa?agity="" i="" and="" .opportunity.,="" ".hi:t'1="" :="" 1="" 4‘you="" pould="" never,="" do="" any="" tiling--but,="" .that.”="" how.="" often="" are="" -those="" wofds="" thought,‘.ifnot="" spokenandwhen="" spoken,="" how="" oi't$n="" they="" pro-="" jducea="" feeling="" of="" contempt.and,-angejf,at.the="" speaker;="" when="" the="" fatter="" is="" cause="" it.="" we'hear="" "such="" thing="" oreffort="" being="" perfect="" success,="" when,="" if="" we="" examine="" if,-if="" was="" partly="" insured="" by="" hdaptation’and="" that="" adapta-="" tion="" surrounded="" favorable="" circumstances,="" one="" is,of="" little="" conseqlittlee="" withdut="" other,="" but="" combined="" easily="" produce="" --what-often="" v;seams="" to.="" us="" perfection;t'.ieilt="" no="" where="" .thb="" ipro.rei="" noticeable-="" than-in="" o.urgefves.wien="" person,="" is.naturally="" consti-="" tuted="" to="" pursue="" path.it="" h="" hard,tq;walk=""> AND OPPORTUNITY.

     "You could never do anything by that."
How often are those words thought if not
spoken and when spoken, how often they pro-
duce a feeling of contempt and anger at the
speaker when the latter is the cause of it. How
often we hear of such a thing or effort being a
perfect success, when, if we examine it, it was
partly insured by adaptation and that adapta-
tion surrounded by favorable circumstances,
one is of little consequence without the other,
but combined they easily produce what often
seems to us perfection.
     No where is this more noticeable than in
ourselves. When a person is naturally consti-
tuted to pursue one path it is hard to walk in
another. Our brain dictates the course to pur-
sue, for in it are certain organs, some larger
than others, these bestow our tastes and influ-
ence over our lives, and how natural that we
should think and act according to our "make up."
     The farmer and gardener considers the hab-
its and nature of his seeds and plants and then
acts accordingly; what would be suitable and
life to me would be death to another. No one
could ever think of trying to grow tropical
fruits in the open air in Alaska, and we do not
think it strange that birds do not creep or gar-
den worms fly; yet as great incongruities are
expected daily by parents from their children,
their mental capabilities which produce their
likes and dislikes are rarely taken into consid-
eration, while they may be gifted and able to
attain comparative excellence with ease in sev-
eral different ways and then if they have the
opportunity and make a success in one direc-
tion their capacities are harrowed into that
one groove, and then comes the stinging reproof
"You could never do anything but that." And
if the influence of their lucky stars had not
outweighed their guardian's discretion they
could never have done that.	A.F.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor.

     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months
$1.000 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of non-parell space, one
time, $2.50. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
     EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah.


MRS. LOCKWOOD'S NOMINATION.

     The following telegraphic dispatch speaks for
itself; and opens up a new phase of the presiden-
tial campaign:

     Washington, 4.--Mrs. Lockwood has written a
letter formally accepting the nomination as the
candidate of the Woman's National Rights par-
ty in California for the office of President of the
United States.
	Washington, 4.-Mrs. Lockwood says her an-
ti-monopoly and civil service policy "is funny,"
and that her Indian policy is "good, sound sense,
I make a bid for all voters. I wish German,
temperance, monopolists, anti-monopolists,capi-
talists, and laborers. I did not know, she said, 
"how to get around the Germans, because I'm
temperance; so I said that due-consideration will
be given to honest, industrious, home loving
Germans." Mrs. Lockwood's letter from the
Western women says that she was selected for
President because Elizabeth Cady Stanton was
"too old," Susan B. Anthony "too much of a
spinster," Mary A. Livermore "too opposed to
certain classes," and Lucy Stone "too narrow."
The new candidate to-night wrote a letter to her
western friends asking about the Vice Presiden-
cy, and saying it was an important and serious
question.

     No doubt Mrs. Lockwood is in many, perhaps
most respects quite as capable of occupying the
honored position of the Chief Executive of the
nation, as many of those who have figured in
that capacity. She is a woman of great ability
and her brain is as clear and her reasoning as
logical as that of a man, she talks not only as
fast, but as well, her language is as good, and she
hits the nail on the head quite as often, and hits
as hard; she is brave and fearless, but she is a 
woman, and that any woman should aspire to
the position would be sufficient to condemn her
in the estimation of the masses of the people.
Yet they are never weary of extolling Queen
Victoria, and even go as far back as Elizabeth
of England for an example of woman's great-
ness. Then why not a superior American wo-
man, one manifestly just as capable of holding
the reins of powers as Victoria.
     One would say, perhaps, Queens are born to
them, it is the royal blood; but the blood of free-
dom is inherent in the veins of every true citi-
zen of the Republic, whether man or woman,
and though greatness may not be thrust upon
one as it is upon the English nobility, yet why
should not one attain to eminence, even though
she be a woman, by diligence in studying the
questions of the day, the needs of the govern-
ment, the best interests of the great common-
wealth, and political economy and policies gen-
erally. Although the nomination may not cre-
ate any stirring sensation at the present time,

yet it will have its bearing upon the future, and
will awaken thoughts that might otherwise have
lain dormant.
	Mrs. Lockwood shall have our best wishes for
her success as a nominee for President, and we
have no doubt as to her ability to preside over
the affairs of the nation.  She is fearless for
what she deems right, and valiant for justice
and will maintain her position on any matter of
importance with quite as much independence of
character as any man.  Her Washington life
has initiated her into many knotty points in the
political issues now pending in Congress and
she is, by means of her intuitive tact and grand
opportunities, pretty well acquanted with
the general business of the departments of
State.  In her manner she has the appearance
of a military officer of high rank.  She is cer-
tainly a woman of superior endowments and at-
tainments, and if a woman were eligivle to be
President of the United States, there could be
no good reason why it should not be Belva A.
Lockwood.
	At any rate it is something to record the nom-
ination of a woman for a position that has been
always filled by a man.  But times and things
are changing and woman's hour is near, and
Mrs. Lockwood does but anticipate, like some
others, living too near the future; she feels the
spirit of progress that is revolutionizing the old
and breaking in pieces the iron rules of tradition
and crumbling to atoms the theories of states-
men of olden times.  A new era is being ush-
ered in and women are born with hearts as large
and aims as lofty, and courage as undaunted as
men--women who do their own thinking and
who are not content to sit and dream and wait
for the good time coming, but who will them-
selves open up the way for the advancement of
others and thrust the sickle into the field of rip-
ened grain.  They may be called innovators
and extremests, but, nevertheles, they will stand
out grandly in the future and be applauded as
benefactors of the human race, for what lifts
woman elevates man, for is she not the mother
of mankind?  Mrs. Lockwood's nomination
will, we ardently hope, call out expressions of
sentiment and opinions upon the woman suf-
frage question, that will eventually result in
great good to the cause and enlighten a class of
people who "sit in gross darkness" on this very
important subject, one which in its bearing con-
nects itself materially with that of many vital-
matters, that stem up the tide of human pro-
gress and advancement.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have received from the N. W. S. A., in
pamphlet form, a complete report of the Six-
teenth Annual Washington Convention held
March 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th; 1884, with reports
of the Forty-eight Congress. The book is edi-
ted by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony, and published at Rochester, N. Y. It
is a very carefully prepared and elaborate work
and contains much useful information on suf-
frage work, both in America and Europe, in the
speeches and letters that are given in full. Two
letters from Utah are given, one from Mrs. E.
B. Wells and one from Mrs. Annie Godbe.
	MRS. E. R. S. SMITH, President of the Relief
Society, has prepared a list of the names of all
the Stake and Ward Presidents of the Relief So-
ciety in the valleys of the mountains. It is
printed on sheets and a copy will be sent to the
President of each Ward as soon as practicable.
	THE Woman's Conference of this Stake of
Zion will be held on the 19th and 20th inst., in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.

[Column 2]
	THE Woman's Conference of Tooele Stake will
be held on the 13th and 14th inst. in Tooele.
Visitors from Salt Lake are expected to attend.

	SANPETE Stake Woman's Conference com-
menced on the 12th inst. at Fountain Green.
Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells of
this city were present, also Sister Minerva W.
Snow of St. George. They will hold some other
meetings in the settlements in that county.

	TWO new books recently issued from the Ju-
venile Instructor Office were laid upon our table
the other day, a favor which we very willingly
acknowledge. One is entitled, "Labors in the
Vineyard," and is the twelfth book of the Faith
Promoting Series, and is a very excellent little
work. The contents are: "My Experience in
England," by C. V. Spencer; "My Swiss Mis-
sion," by William Budge; "The Faith of the
Zunis," by Liewellyn Harris; "Sketch of a
Well-spent Life," by Harrison Burgess; "The
Lord's Blessings," by Amasa Potter; "Results of
Disobedience," by T. R. Daniels. These testi-
monies are well calculated to inspire faith in the
minds of the children and young people of Zion,
which is a very desirable object to be attained.
Price, 25 cts.
	The other little work is in a pamphlet form
and is the "Public Discussion of the Doctrines
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ," held in the Og-
den Tabernacle, May 8 and 9, 1884, between the
Rev. Richard Hartley, Pastor of the Baptist
Church in Ogden and representing the minis-
ters of the various Christian denominations in
the Territory, and Ben C. Rich, son of the late
Apostle Charles C. Rich, and an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Price 20 cts.

	This discussion is one of the best things our
young people can read, and it should greatly en-
courage our young Elders to know that this
young, unlearned youth could, through the in-
spiration of the Holy Spirit which rested upon
him as a servant of God holding the Priesthood,
so readily bring forward such conclusive
evidence without hesitation, and to the aston-
ishment of those who had been engaged for
years in preaching the doctrines of the Latter-
day Saints.

	MISS N. VIRGINIA DONAGHE and her sister,
Miss Hallie R. Donaghe, from Colorada Springs
are spending a few days in Salt Lake City as a
sort of rest and for recreation, to take in the
points of interest, and see for themselves some-
thing of the people. They are stopping at the
Spencer House. Miss Donaghe was formerly
one of the editors of the "Daily Republic" at
Colorado Springs and has been connected with
other papers and is still engaged in journalism,
and will write some letters from Salt Lake City.
We have spent a very pleasant evening with
these young ladies, and found them very intelli-
gent and free from prejudice. They were for-
merly from Virginia.

	ON Tuesday we had an exceedingly pleasant
call from Mrs. Felix of Chicago, a very pleasant
and most interesting lady, a member of the N.
W. S. A. and Woman's Congress, also the La-
dies' Club of Chicago; she is thoroughly interested
in woman's work, in education and charitable
institutions. She had heard considerable of us
through the Woman's Congress and National
Woman's Suffrage Association, and felt that she
would like to call. She expressed herself much
pleased with the way in which we care for our
people who are in need of assistance, also with
the privileges which women enjoy in our com-
munity. She very cordially invited us to visit
her at her home and seemed as friendly as she
could possibly have been with a woman who
was not a Mormon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91


[Column 1]
TO THE BRANCHES OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	Being very frequently receiving letters of in-
quiry relative to duties, practices, privileges,
etc., of officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety, and being unable to devote sufficient
time to answer individually, we gladly accept
the privilege extended by Mrs. Wells to respond
in general manner through the columns of the
EXPONENT.
	"Should a president of teachers be appointed
in each branch?"
	It is better for small branches not to appoint a
president. In those, the teachers should report
in the general meetings, and keep no separate
minutes. In every branch the president of the
organization virtually presides over the teachers;
and presidents of teachers are needed only in
those branches where there is such accumula-
tion of work as to render it necessary to relieve
the presiding board.
	"Should the teachers' minutes be read in the
general meetings?"
	All members who attend meeting should be
made acquainted with and have a voice in all
business transactions of importance in both de-
partments. No "change has been made" in
this respect.
	"Is it right for the sisters to raffle?"
	We say emphatically, No! Raffle is only a
modified name of gamble. President Brigham
Young once said to me, "Tell the sisters not to
raffle; if the mothers raffle, their children will
gamble. Raffling is gambling."
	Some say, "What shall we do? We have
quilts on hand-we cannot sell them, and we
need the means to supply our treasury, which
we can obtain by raffling, for the benefit of the
poor." Rather let the quilts rot on the shelves
than adopt the old adage: "The end will sancti-
fy the means." As Latter-day Saints, we can-
not afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial
gain.
	Let us investigate the subject-Supposing an
article, quilt or other property, is put up for raf-
fle: twenty persons donate 25 cents each; all
hope to draw the prize, and only one wins,
while nineteen who have each contributed as
much as the successful one, gain nothing but
disappointment, which is almost certain to
arouse feelings of jealousy to a greater or less
extent.
	Why not all donate 25 cents each to replenish
the treasury, as well as to run the chances and
only one succeed? And then by mutual consent
donating the article or articles in question to
some charitable purpose, they prevent the cause
of jealousy and dissension-the same amount
will go to the treasury and no unworthy exam-
ple and no sacrifice of principle will stain their
record.
	"Should members of the Relief Society go to
the Bishops for counsel?"
	The Relief Society is designed to be a self-
governing organization to relieve the Bishops as
well as to relieve the poor, to deal with its mem-
bers, correct abuses, etc. If difficulties arise be-
tween members of a branch which they cannot
settle between the members themselves, sided
by the teachers, instead of troubling the Bishop,
the matter should be referred to their president
and her counselors. If the branch board cannot
decide satisfactorily, an appeal to the stake
board is next in order; if that fails to settle the
question, the next step brings it before the gen-
eral board, from which the only resort is to the
Priesthood; but, if possible, we should relieve
the Bishops instead of adding to their multitu-
dinous labors.
	"Is it necessary for sisters to be set apart to
officiate in the sacred ordinances of washing

[Column 2]
anointing, and laying on of hands in administer-
ing to the sick?"
	It certainly is not. Any and all sisters who
honor their holy endowments, not only have
the right, but should feel it a duty, whenever
called upon to administer to our sisters in these
ordinances, which God has graciously commit-
ted to His daughters as well as to His sons; and
we testify that when administered and received
in faith and humility they are accompanied
with all mighty power.
	Inasmuch as God our Father has revealed
these sacred ordinances and committed them to
His Saints, it is not only our privilege but our
imperative duty to apply them for the relief of
human suffering. We think we may safely say
thousands can testify that God has sanctioned
the administration of these ordinances by our
sisters with the manifestations of His healing
influence.
	"What age is most suitable for young lady of-
ficers?"
	The young should fill all official positions in
the Young Ladies' branch (ward) Associations.
No matter how unequal they feel to the situa-
tion, if they possess sufficient energy of charac-
ter and the true spirit of the Gospel, trust in
God, they will be sure to succeed.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, September 12th., 1884.


[Column 1]
A TOUCHING TRIBUTE.

MA SMOOT.

	Yesterday (September 1st) at 20 minutes past
5 o'clock p m., Ma Smoot passed away from
earth. She was born on the 16th of April, 1809,
in Chester District, South Carolina. Her father
was a revolutionary soldier and her grandfather
Hunter was an officer of high rank during the
country's struggle for freedom. Her brothers
served an honorable term in the war of 1812.
	When she was eighteen years of age she was
married to Wm. Atkinson, and a year afterwards
a son was born to her. Widowed soon after the
birth of her child, she removed to Paris, Henry
Co., Tenn. Here she heard the sound of the
Gospel, and was baptised by Warren Parrish on
the 5th of Nov. 1834. In May, 1837, she went
with her child up to Far West, traveling in El
ders Sherwood and Smoot's company. On the
11th of Nov., 1838, she was married to A. O.
Smoot, while Far West was surrounded and the
people made prisoners of war. Driven with the
body of the Saints from that place they at last
reached Ambrosia, where they were counseled
to remain. 
	Elder Smoot, during the next two or three
years, fulfilled three missions to Tennessee and
Alabama, on two of them being accompanied
by his wife. The couple had removed to Nau-
voo, and although Elder Smoot was absent on a
mission, the family were there when the awful
martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch oc-
curred.
	When the cry, "Westward, O Zion," rang
around Israel, Elder Smoot was among the first
who were ready to start. He was appointed
captain over 120 wagons, in the company of 660
wagons that followed the Pioneers. Daniel
Spencer's being the first. They entered Salt
Lake Valley on the 24th of September, 1847.
	Among the first of those noble men who re-
ceived and obeyed the law of celestial marriage
was Elder A. O. Smoot, and as Ma asid a short
time before her death, "I knew it was right from
the first. I went into it with a willing heart. I
have never doubted it, never fought it. I have
lived it, I shall die it." This is the key to her
whole noble character. Too mortal not to err,
she was too consci[--]tions to remain in the

[Column 2]
wrong. Forgiving to a fault, devoted to her
husband's whole family, and revered and hon-
ored by them, she was to all, family and friends,
"Ma Smoot." Her character was full of a rug-
ged simplicity, a proud firmness, and a woman-
ly submission to God and her husband.
	She was the first President of the 20th Ward
Relief Society, and when she removed to Provo
in Oct., 1872, she was sadly missed by her com-
panions and friends in the city. She occupied
the position of President of the Silk Association
in this Stake, until she felt obliged by her other
duties to resign. In 1878, when the Stake or-
ganization was completed she was chosen as
Stake President of this (Utah) Stake. With
what loving self-sacrifice and womanly dignity
she filled this position until her death, only the
weeping hearts of the sisters throughout this
Stake can testify. She assisted in the organiza
tion of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations of this whole Stake. 
	On the 9th of May, 1883, she was prostrated
by paralysis. Her life, which had been so ac-
tive, so useful, was suddenly closed in the vise-
like grasp of palsy, since which time, those to
whom she has so fondly ministered during her
life, have gladly returned a few of her kind-
nesses. During the winter her health seemed
to improve and she recovered her speech to a
great extent and was able to ride out some. As
spring deepened she seemed to fade away, and
about six weeks ago she received another stroke
Since then she has been confined to her bed,
and has lost the use of her left side, as well as
her speech. Yesterday she seemed brighter,
and was conscious to the last, kissed every one
of the family and friends around her good-bye,
and at 4 o'clock p.m. the room was cleared.
Turning over then, when all was still, the brave,
pure spirit peacefully bade good-bye to its earth
ly tabernacle and passed to eternity.
	Although we miss her, we can but feel a deep,
solemn joy that one so nobly worthy has gone to
her sure reward.					HOMESPUN.


RUTH SAYERS.

	Sister Sayers was well known among the early
settlers in this city. Tall and erect in figure, a
countenance always beaming with human kind-
ness, charitable to the poor and ever ready to
comfort the disconsolate, she endeared herself
to her associates. She was a woman of brilliant
conversational powers and possessed a ready
fund of valuable information, especially upon
topics of interest to the Saints. She was never
tired of relating incidents of her Boston life nor
of dwelling upon Gospel themes and the days of
Joseph and Hyrum. She has passed to her rest
and joined those gone before whom she so rev-
erenced in life; her record here was that of a
brave and true Latter-day Saint. We cannot
mourn for such deaths as hers, it is only step-
ping from one sphere of usefulness to another.
Ruth Dagget Vose Sayers was born February
26, 1808, in Watertown, Mass. Her parents were
Mark and Sally Vose. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in May, 1832, in the city of Boston. Dur-
ing the building of the Kirtland Temple her
aunt Polly Vose and herself were engaged in up-
holstering in Boston, they both felt it was right
and necessary to give liberally towards the erec-
tion of that edifice, and did so to the full ex-
tent of their means, continuing their donations
until the Prophet Joseph sent word to them, "It
is enough." The Elders of the Church in trav-
eling in the Eastern States were the recipients
of their unbounded liberality.
	Mrs. Sayers was married in her youth to Mr.
Edward Sayers, a thoroughly practical horticul-
turlat and florist, and though he was not a mem-


ber of the Church, yet he willingly joined his
fortune with hers and they reached Nauvoo to-
gether some time in the year 1841; they re-
mained there until after the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum,
when they returned to Boston, and remained in
that city until 1849, when they came to this
valley, locating first on the corner afterwards
known as the American Hotel Corner; the year
after they removed to the Twelfth Ward, where
they both resided during the remainder of their
lives. Mr. Sayers passed away July 17, 1861,
being in his sixtieth year. Miss Vose or Aunt
Polly as she was familiarly called came to Utah
in 1857. Mrs. Sayers traveled to Boston the year
previous for the purpose of bringing her aged
relative back with her. Aunt Polly died Dec-
ember 9, 1866, being then eighty-six years old.
She was the only blood relative of Sister Sayers
that joined the Church. She had one brother
only, no sister; this brother, who was her pride,
and of whom she was devotedly fond, was killed
by a band of Seminole Indians, led by Koo-
kooche, a chief under the celebrated Seminole
chief "Wild Cat" on the 15th day of June, 1839,
eleven miles from St. Augustine, State of Flori-
da. Two other men were killed at the same
time, one named Miller, a traveler like Mr.
Vose, the other man was a resident of St. Au-
gustine. They were buried on the following
Sunday in the St. Augustine Cemetery. Mr. T.
A. Lyne, the veteran actor now residing in Salt
Lake City, was there at the time with a thea-
trical company and assisted in the burial of the
bodies.
	Sister Sayers has remained a widow since the
death of her husband in 1861, and has lived a
very quiet and retired life, yet known to many
as a woman worthy to be classed among the no-
ble daughters of earth, simple in her tastes and
habits, honest, liberal, kind and just, faithful
and true, she passed calmly to her rest on the
morning of the 18th of August, 1884, in the
seventy-seventh year of her age. Peace to her
ashes.
	The funeral services over her remains were
held (by her request) in her own house, where a
few of her most cherished friends were assem-
bled, on the following day, August 19. She did
not wish to be kept after her death any longer
than was absolutely necessary. Bishop H. B.
Clawson conducted the services, the speakers
were those who had known her intimately, and
they spoke eloquently of her unbounded faith
and her perfect trust in the Gospel she had em-
braced and for the sake of which she had left
home, friends and kindred forever.
	In the Salt Lake City Cemetery can be seen
three plain stone slabs, side by side, bearing the
following inscriptions (her own choice), Edward
Sayers, Mary Vose, Ruth D. V. Sayers.


62	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SENIOR RETRENCHMENT MEETING.

	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourtheenth Ward Assembly Rooms
on Saturday, Sept. 6, commencing at 2 p.m.,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. After sing-
ing prayer was offered by Mrs. Mary Freeze,
then singing again; the minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted, and minutes of
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Eleventh Ward were read.
Mrs. Horne made a few remarks, and was fol-
lowed by Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball and Mrs. Mary A. Freeze. Sister Horne re-
quested the sisters in the audience to occupy the
time, and several of them spoke. Mrs. Susan
K. Greene made quite an eloquent appeal to the
sisters, which seemed to have a telling effect
upon all who heard it. She had apparently
quite a remarkable outpouring of the Spirit of


God, and for a few minutes must have lost sight
of the present altogether.
	Mrs. M. A. E. Watmough spoke feelingly up-
on the disciplining of children, and pointed out
clearly where so many fail in government.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke a few minutes, urged
the sisters to attend to the duty of registering
and voting, and use their influence with neigh-
bors and friends, also asked them to pay in
the memberships due to the Hospital.
	Mrs. Horne made closing remarks and allud-
ed to the gift of faith, the healing of the sick,
and gave much good, practical instruction to
mothers about the care of little children.
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing." Benediction by Mrs. Lillie Freeze.


LETTER.

ELBA, Cassia Co., Idaho.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 21st of July, 1883, Bishop Haughton
Haight and some other brethren from Goose
Creek paid us a visit. They organized a Relief
Society, and the following officers were elected
by unanimous vote: Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor,
President; Mrs. Mary Ann Osterhout and Mrs.
Margaret Rice, Counselors; Mrs. Clarinda
Beecher, Secretary; Mrs. Nettle Parrish, Asst.
Secretary; and Mrs. Louie Lessey, Treasurer.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks, al-
through we are scattered we have a good atten-
dance at meeting. We are all new beginners
and are trying to do all the good we can, as
there is much to be done by women in our day
who are ready and willing to do it, and to live
for the truth. We think the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT will be interesting in our meetings. We
would be pleased to have any of our sisters pay
us a visit and encourage us in our work.
	Wishing you success, I remain your sister in
the Gospel,				NETTIE PARRISH.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

RICHMOND.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take pleasure in giving you an account of
a meeting held here by the Primary Associa-
tion of this ward, at which Sisters Presendia
L. Kimball and Zina D. Young were present.
The house was well filled with children and
their parents.
	The first part of the meeting was occupied
by the children. After the programme had
been carried out the sisters addressed the
children, giving them wise counsel and good
instruction in simple language which they
could understand. It pleased them when they
were told that these sisters were wives of the
Prophet Joseph Smith in his lifetime. Both
had the Spirit of God with them, and all en-
joyed the influence of the same.
	The late Bro. A. C. Brower was present and
spoke well, it being the last meeting he attend-
ed here. The day was one never to be forgot-
ten by the Saints in Richmond.
	I trust that we may have many more of the
same kind, and that these noble sisters may
live to attend many Primaries, where they will
impart to the youth of Zion the principles of
the everlasting Gospel.
	Wishing you success in your labors for the
EXPONENT, I remain.
		You sister in the Gospel,
				MAGGIE W. THOMPSON.
	August 18, 1884.

MILL CREEK WARD.

	The Fourth Annual Primary Meeting was
held May 23rd, 1884, in the Mill Creek Ward

[Column 2]
house. Meeting was called to order by Prest.
M. A. Birch, President of the fourth district-
Singing. Prayer by Bishop Hamilton. Sing-
ing. After which each district read the respec-
tive reports, also their programmes, which were
responded to very promptly. There were four
districts; two of them recited in the morning
and two in the afternoon. The exercises con-
sisted of songs, recitations, select readings, dia-
logues, etc. Sisters E. C. Clawson, L. A.
Wells, and E. Howard, from Salt Lake City,
were present.
	Sister Clawson said she was pleased with the
programme, and wished them always to remem-
ber good order, that being the first law of
heaven, and always to obey those who had au-
thority over them. Gave them many other
good instructions.
	Sister Wells said she was pleased to be with
us, and thought there were good instructions in
every recitation that had been given. Said the
children would profit very much by following
them out in life; hoped we would increase in
good works, that the Lord would bless us in so
doing.
	Sister Howard was pleased with all, hoped
the children would pay attention when spoken
to; wished all the children to help with the sing-
ing, and to be faithful in all that they under-
took to do. Made many other good remarks.
	Bishop Hamilton was much gratified in
meeting so many, and was delighted with the
proceedings of the day. Spoke of the many
privileges the children enjoyed now, which he
did not when he was a boy; gave the children
some good instructions.
	Counselor J. F. Snedaker was pleased with
what he had seen and heard; was glad to see
the children take so much interest; made other
good remarks and prayed the Lord to bless all.
Singing. Benediction by Bro. N. Bawden.
			MATILDA FORD, Secretary.
			MARY A. WINDER, Ass't. Sec.

PARIS, IDAHO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some few weeks since we were favored with
a visit from our beloved sister, Presendia L.
Kimball. A meeting of the Relief Society
was called, and some excellent instructions
were imparted.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the meeting held
July 25th, 1884. After the opening exercises
President Julia Lindsay and her counselor,
Elizabeth Collins, made a few remarks in a
very humble and appreciative spirit, praying
the Spirit to be with us to help us onward,
that we might be fitted for our lives here and
hereafter, after which Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball was introduced to the sisters.
	Said she felt pleased to meet with the Relief
Society in Paris once more; told us she had
been in the Church forty-eight years, and
would not give her experience for all the gold
on the earth. "Joseph Smith stands at the
head of this dispensation and will be the first
to be resurrected." Spoke upon the principle
of plural marriage, exhorted the sisters to be
kind and charitable. Her calling had been to
help the poor, attend the sick and lay out the
dead; she had been among the richest and the
poorest of the Saints. Regretted not having
kept a history of her experience. She enjoyed
working in the Temple, it seemed as though
spirits of the good were there, and a halo of
love and comfort filled the Temple.
	Sister Kimball said the Relief Society was
first organized by Joseph Smith through a rev-
elation from God. His wife Emma was chosen
President. Emma was good to the poor, and
had many good qualities, and still she was suf-
fered to go astray, the speaker knew not why,
unless it was because she was of Judah, and it
was not time for that people to accept the Gos-
pel. Joseph was of Ephraim. Exhorted the
sisters not to speak evil of one another; should


never speak evil of any principle of their re-
ligion; much depends upon mothers in rearing
their children; they should never keep them
from Sunday Schools, nor any of their meet-
ings, but regard them as gifts from God and
train them to become good and noble. Said
we should store up grain, for the judgments of
God were coming upon the earth, and we must
be prepared if we would become saviors upon
Mt. Zion. Thought we should make our own
fashions and not follow those coming from Lon-
don, Paris and from Babylon. She knew the
trial of living with an apostate husband, her
first husband apostatized and took her eldest
son with him, but she had one son she thought
a gift from God. "We must put our trust in
God. When a woman enters into the celes-
tial order of marriage she takes the first step
toward redemption from the fall." Hoped we
would all meet behind the veil.
	Sister Margret Innes thought it a feast to
listen to the voice of her sisters; she felt encour-
aged and more determined to press forward.
	Brother Lindsay spoke for a short time, said
every one would have to work out their own
salvation. Prayed that Sister Kimball might
have strength to perform her labors.
	Prest. Julia Lindsay felt thankful to her
Heavenly Father and to the sisters for the good
meeting we had enjoyed. Wanted the Primary
Associations to meet with us at 3 o'clock; would
like the children to be prepared with a few
songs and recitations, so that Sister Kimball
could see how they were progressing. Hoped
the mothers would all meet with them. Was
looking forward to a reunion of all the socie-
ties of the Stake when the new tabernacle
would be finished. Prayed God to bless them
all.
	Meeting was adjourned sine die. Singing
and benediction.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, President,
			ELLA RICH, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63


[Column 1]
PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]

	Mrs. Sessions says in her journal, "As soon
as my husband's father learned that we had
moved into a new house he came and wanted
us to take them (his wife and himself) to live
with us. The old lady was not able to stand
on her feet, but had to be moved in a chair on
wheels; she remained with us while she lived,
four or five years; during all that time never
straightened nor turned herself in bed once. She
was a very large, heavy woman, and I had to
lift and move her around or wheel her from
room to room. One day I was moving her and
my arm, slipped from the chair and caught
my elbow between the slats, which pulled the
elbow cap out of place. The pain was very
great, but when mother Sessions asked if she
had hurt me, I said I guessed not; with help I
seated the old lady and then went into my
front room where I had a girl sewing for me,
told her to take hold of my hand and hold it
still, and let me pull back and straighten my arm;
she did so and I pushed it into place, and put
my arm in a sling, in which I had to keep it
for some weeks. When father came home he
wished to know what ailed my arm, I told him
rheumatism or something else."
	This little incident shows the fortitude of
Mrs. Sessions and also the inherent tact and
native skill she possessed to enable her to set
her own arm properly. No doubt she would
have excelled as a physician and surgeon, had
she had the opportunity of studying in the pro-
<l surgeon,="" had="" she="" had-theppportuqity="" ofstudying.="" in="" ,fhe="" pror="" fessiom="" -="" '="" "="" ;="" another="" point="" we="" prostnot="" lose="" sight="" of,="" her="" noble="" self-sacfificesher="" wppld="" not="" let="" the="" old="" lady="" know="" was="" hurt="" lest="" it="" should="" wound="" feelings.="" if="" wp.cpuld="" always="" be="" as="" tqught-="" fulof="" others="" what="" a,happy,="" worjd="" this="" would="" he.="" a="" n.="" iu.="" l-="" father="" sessions="" lived="" one="" year="" after="" death="" of="" his="" aged="" wife="" and="" companion;="" his,="" de-="" parture="" was.="" very="" singular="" manner,he.went="" to="" neighbor’s="" house="" diedjln="" his.chair="" brought="" home="" a-corpse.="" “we="" bought="" 200,acres="" land,="" my="" husband="" helped="" build="" -mill="" there;="" after-="" wards="" purchased="" mill.”="" both="" mr;="" mrs-="" must="" have="" worked="" hard,="" for="" says="" continued="" practice="" midwifery="" regularly,="" day="" or="" night,="" rain="" shine,="" some-="" times="" going="" twenty="" miles="" oh="" horseback="" night’over="" those="" lonely="" roads.="" mrs.="" sessions'="" eecond="" child,="" son,="" sylvanus,="" wa3="" bom="" june="" 3,1816,="" hereldest="" daughter,="" sylvia="" p.,="" born="" july="" hist;="" 1818.="" daugh-="" ter,="" also="" eldest="" son="" peregrine,="" shall="" something="" say="" later="" on="" history="" mother="" they="" united="" with="" churclf="" at="" early="" period="" its="" history,and="" their="" lives="" are="" interwoven="" closely="" wilh="" that.of="" venerable="" mother.="" every="" thing="" prospered="" mr,="" nnd="" grew="" rich="" worldly="" goods,="" hut="" still="" pursued="" even="" tenor="" way,="" new="" england="" farmers="" usually="" do,="" living="" plain="" unpretentious="" styleafter="" manner="" called="" “comfortable”="" country="" homes="" eastern="" states.="" possessing="" considerable="" relig-="" iotis="" element="" her-="" character,="" herself="" of-the="" established="" churches,="" be-="" lieved="" fair="" way="" saved.="" dur-,="" ing="" the-period="" prosperity="" sev-="" eral="" ether="" children="" were="" born;="" them,a="" ter="" anna;="" march="" 21="" 1820,="" lived1,="" only="" three="" years,="" dying="" an="" age="" when="" child-:="" ren="" most="" attractive.="" david="" third="" may="" 9t="" 1823.="" is="" ithe="" present="" time="" will="" alluded="" again="" course="" sketch="" mother’s="" life.="" 15,1825,="" daughter="" bom.="" to.="" them="" anna="" remem-="" brance="" little="" who="" died,="" leaving="" hearts="" so="" stricken="" grief.="" just="" long="" enongh="" to;="" endear="" &11="" and-then="" passed="" away-="" like;="" fading="" summer="" flower.="" died="" august'.="" 5,1832,="" september="" 15="" same="" second="" bon="" sylvanus="" was:="" down="" carried="" away="" silent="" grave.="" he="" useful="" parents="" made="" .'sad="" their'="" part="" these="" tw&="" their’="" dear="" ones.="" alii="" gust="" 1,1829,="" whom="" named="" bartlett,="" until="" next="" january;="" that="" seven="" which="" .been="" living,="" elders="" church="" glad="" tidings="" ol="" salvation="" them,="" “the="" ushering="" dispensation.”="" 183.4="" .that="" .the="" gos="" pel="" .was="" state="" maine,'and="" 2,="" 1834,="" baptized="" by="" elder="" daniel="" bean="" into="" jesus="" christ="" tatter-day="" gaints.="" rejoiced="" in.="" tiding3="" received="" fhat="" pro-="" phet="" been,="" raised="" up="" receive="" light'knowl-="" edge="" revelation,="" people="" might="" fed="" bread,="" jifer="" ,.="" many="" testjmobies="" given="" tb="" thfera="" and’="" manifestations="" healing="" of.="" sick="" gifts="" gospel.="" .spirit="" ‘="" gather-="" rested="" upon="" them,and="" began="" thinking,="" uniting="" themselves="" body="" saint3="" the.="" centre="" stake="" .zign.="" sold="" farm,="" theif'uiill="" other="" interests="" accu-="" mulated="" during="" years="" diligent-="" ly="" labored="" together="" prepara-="" tion="" leave="" native;="" s.tatenncfcgcrto'zion;="" thebstacles="" difficulties="" overcome="" order="" accomplish="" object;="" but="" equal="" to1="" occasion="" all="" arranged="" property="" disposed="" pf="" previous="" departure.-="" 1837="" fook="" line="" march,="" behind="" childhood,="" place="" because="" land="" their'1="" nativity,="" well="" pleasant="" associations,="" contained="" graves="" children‘="" parents.="" their-="" intention="" go="" missouri,="" then="" gathering="" saints;="" thither="" company="" journeyed,="" father,="" mbther,="" children.="" fall="" arriving="" missouri="" ses-="" sions="" born,="" november="" 14,="" 837.="" during.their="" fetay="" peregrine="" vyas="" married,="" lucina.-------and="" young’="" peo-="" ’="" le="" chijd="" them.="" .eldest="" ,="" aughter,="" sylvia,="" married="" while="" there="" windsor="" lyon.="" driven="" out="" thai-state="" time.of="" per-;.,="" secution="" coldest="" weather="" winter,="" freezing="" month="" february,="" every.="" hundreds="" did.-="" dreadful="" times'="" mobbings="" driv-="" ings.="" ’they="" started="" 15th="" febru-="" ary,="" child="" t="" :way="" sick;="" fifteen="" ;v="" months="" old.="" endured':!="" muefi.="" fatigue,;="" privation="" hardship="" 'upon'f="" thatj="" journey,="" .child="" sick,="" hatt;="" been="" driyep.="" frpm="" home.and="" subjected="" to,="" inclemency="" winter="" weather,="" and;="" fqr="" no="" offense,whatever="" against="" god="" man,expept="" r-="" shp-was="" member="" mormon="" 0nurch:="" believed="" joseph="" smith="" a3="" prophet-pf="" .="">fession.
	Another point we must not lose sight of, her
noble self-sacrifice; she would not let the old
lady know she was hurt lest it should wound
her feelings. If we could always be as thought-
ful of others what a happy world this would
be.

[Column 2]
	Father Sessions lived one year after the
death of his aged wife and companion; his de-
parture was in a very singular manner, he went
to a neighbor's house and died in his chair and
was brought home a corpse.
	"We had bought 200 acres of land, and my
husband helped build a mill there. After-
wards we purchased the mill." Both Mr. and
Mrs. Sessions must have worked very hard, for
she says she continued to practice midwifery
regularly, day or night, rain or shine, some-
times going twenty miles on horseback in the
night over those lonely roads. Mrs. Sessions'
second child, another son, Sylvanus, was born
June 3, 1816, and her eldest daughter, Sylvia
P., was born July 31st, 1818. Of this daugh-
ter, and also the eldest son Peregrine, we shall
have something to say later on in the history
of Mother Sessions, as they united with the
Church at a very early period of its history, and
their lives are interwoven closely with that of
their venerable mother.
	Everything prospered with Mr. and Mrs.
Sessions and they grew rich in worldly goods,
but still pursued the even tenor of their way,
as New England farmers usually do, living on
year after year in a plain and unpretentious
style, after the manner called "comfortable" in
the country homes of the Eastern States. Mrs.
Sessions possessing considerable of the relig-
ious element in her character, united herself
with one of the established churches, and be-
lieved she was in a fair way to be saved. Dur-
ing the period of their worldly prosperity sev-
eral other children were born to them, a daugh-
ter called Anna, born March 21, 1820, lived
only three years, dying at an age when child-
ren are most attractive. David the third son
was born May 9, 1823. This son is living at
the present time and will be alluded to again in
the course of the sketch of his mother's life.
March 15, 1825, another daughter was born to
them and they called her Anna in remem-
brance of little Anna who had died, leaving
their hearts so stricken with grief. This little
one lived just long enough to endear herself to
all their hearts and then passed away like the
fading of a summer flower. She died August
15, 1832, and September 15 of the same year
their second son Sylvanus was stricken down
and carried away to the silent grave. He was
of an age to be very useful to his parents and
it made a very sad wound in their hearts to
part with these two of their dear ones. Au-
gust 1, 1829, another son was born to them
whom they named Bartlett, this little one only
lived until the next January; so that of the
seven children which had been born to them
only three were living at the time when the
Elders of the Church carried the glad tidings
of salvation to them, "the ushering in of a new
dispensation."
	It was in the summer of 1834 that the Gos-
pel was carried to the State of Maine, and in
July 2, 1834, Mrs. Sessions was baptized by
Elder Daniel Bean into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. They rejoiced in
the glad tidings they had received that a pro-
phet had been raised up to receive light, knowl-
edge and revelation, that the people who would
receive it might be fed with the bread of life.
Many were the testimonies given to them and
manifestations in the healing of the sick and
the gifts of the Gospel. The spirit of gather-
ing rested upon them and they began thinking
of uniting themselves with the body of the
Saints in the centre stake of Zion. They sold
their farm, their mill and other interests accu-
mulated during the years they had so diligent-
ly labored together and made every prepara-
tion to leave their native state and go to Zion.
Many were the obstacles and difficulties that
had to be overcome in order to accomplish the
object; but they were equal to the occasion and
all was arranged and their property disposed
of previous to their departure. In 1837 they

[Column 3]
took up their line of march, leaving behind
them the home of their childhood, the place so
dear to them because it was the land of their
nativity, as well as many pleasant associations,
and it contained the graves of their children
and their parents. Their intention was to go
to Missouri, then the gathering place for the
Saints; thither the little company journeyed,
the father, the mother, and three children.
	The fall after arriving at Missouri Mrs. Ses-
sions had a daughter born, November 14,
1837. During their stay their son Peregrine was
married to Lucina ——— and the young peo-
ple had one child born to them. The eldest
daughter, Sylvia, was married while there to
Windsor Lyon. They were all driven out of
that state during the time of the Missouri per-
secution in the coldest weather of winter, in
the freezing month of February, leaving every
thing behind them as hundreds of others did
in those dreadful times of mobbings and driv-
ings. They started out on the 15th of Febru-
ary, and Mrs. Sessions carried her little child
all the way sick; this little one was just fifteen
months old. Mrs. Sessions says she endured
much fatigue, privation and hardship upon
that journey, her little child was sick, she had
been driven from her home and subjected to
the inclemency of the winter weather, and for
no offense whatever against God of man, except
that she was a member of the Mormon Church
and believed in Joseph Smith as a Prophet of
God.
	After wandering here and there seeking
shelter and protection as best they might, they
reached Illinois on the 2nd day of April and
camped on what is familiarly known to the
Saints as Bear Creek, where they remained for
one year.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MESA CITY, A. T. August 18th, 1884.

	Many times have I thought I would send
you a few notes concerning our home in the
sunny south, and as many times has that thief,
procrastination, got the better of my good reso-
lutions.
	We do not wish to feel nor to be thought out
of the world, if we are a long way off from our
northern friends, but wish to represent our-
selves among the rest of our brothers and sis-
ters. Ambition seems to be a thing of the
past, owing to the languid feeling produced by
the extreme heat of the past two months; for
all that the season has been unusually healthy
so far.
	Our Relief Society is in a good condition, the
only complaint being they cannot find enough
to do. The M. I. and Primary Associations
are discontinued during the warm weather.
Work will soon be recommenced on the Relief
Society Hall, which is now up to the square,
and is sixty-five feet long, by twenty-five wide.
The building will be ready for occupation
early this fall, and will be used for a dancing
hall and theatricals, as well as its original use
as a meeting house for the several associa-
tions. There is a general complaint of hard
times, but no worse here than elsewhere.
	We have just received the news of the mas-
sacre of four of our Mormon Elders in Tennes-
see, which has created a feeling of horror and
consternation in our community. Surely the
world is rapidly ripening in iniquity.
	The fruit is just perfect this season. It is
the verdict of all who know, that they never
saw finer fruit in California than is grown
here.
	A company will start north in a week or two
to attend October Conference, also to do some
work in the Temple at St. George.
	A board of directors has been chosen, and
subscriptions obtained for the establishment of
a co-operative mercantile institution, which,


before long, will, doubtless, be in a flourishing
condition. The EXPONENT, as ever, is a wel-
come visitor. Wishing you every success, I
subscribe myself,
			Very truly your sister,
							"CACTUS."


64	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


ESSAY ON KINDNESS.

	Many hearts pine away in secret anguish for the want
of kindness. A word of kindness is a seed, which, when
dropped by chance, springs up a flower. A kind word
and a pleasant voice are gifts easy to give; be liberal
with them; they are worth more than money. Kind-
ness makes sunshine wherever it goes; it finds its way
into the hidden chambers of the heart and brings forth
golden treasures; how sweet are the affections of kind-
ness. We should be kind to one another. If we meet a
friend, greet him or her with kindness and a smile, and
never, by word or sign, cast a shadow on a happy heart,
or throw aside the smiles of joy that linger on a pleas-
ant countenance. When you are about your daily toil
you should wear a smile on your countenance and a
pleasant look, and speak kindly to your companions
and friends, then your associates will love you. There
is nothing like kindness in the world; it is the very prin-
ciple of love. Kindness is stored away in the breast like
rose leaves in a drawer, to sweeten every object around
them. Little drops of rain brighten the meadow, and
little acts of kindness brighten the world.
	We can conceive of nothing more attractive than a
person whose heart is filled with the spirit of kindness;
certainly nothing so embellishes human nature as the
practice of this virtue; and in no other person do we
find it more happily exemplified than in our Savior, who
while on earth went about doing good, and how true it
is that
		"A little word in kindness spoken,
			A motion or a tear,
		Has often healed the heart that's broken,
			And made a friend sincere."
							ELIZA A. WESTWORTH.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, in Minersville, on the 11th of February, 1884,
of dropsy and lung disease, Eliza Jane Zobriskie, be-
loved wife of William Corbridge. She was born in
Provo, July 26th, 1853. She embraced the Gospel in
her youth, and strove to keep its precepts by being
truthful and exemplary in her daily life; an efficient
member of the Relief Society, an affectionate wife and
mother. During her long sickness she never complained
of her sufferings, but bore them with great fortitude
and resignation. Just before her death she requested
her husband and her father to ask God to release her
from her suffering. They replied that they could not
do it, for they wished her to live for the sake of her
children, of whom she had six, the youngest six months
old. She replied, they will be provided for, and if you
can't pray, I can, which she did in a loud voice, asking
the Father to release her from further suffering, and re-
ceive her spirit unto Himself. She soon after expired
in the full hope of a glorious resurrection with the
just.
	Thou blessed of God in Latter-day.
	Thy body now entombed in clay,
	But thy eternal spirit shines
	Among the blessed in realms divine.
			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	We, The members of the Relief Society of Minersville,
unanimously adopt the following resolutions:
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst our beloved sister and friend,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we esteem her faithful
labors, and devotion to duty, as worthy the emulation
of us all.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on the
records of the Relief Society, and that we condole and
sympathize with the husband and children, relations
and friends in their bereavement.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be presen-
ted to the family, also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication.
				MARY E. LIGHTNER,
				LYDIA BLACKBURN,	Committee.
				SUSAN ROBERTS,

	DIED, in Centerville, August 25th 1884, of inflamma-
tion of the bowels, Elizabeth Waddoups, aged sixty-
eight years surrounded by her husband and children.


﻿She embraced the Gospel in Coventry, Warwickshire,
England; immigrated to Utah 1868. She practiced mid-
wifery in her native land, and also here; was very suc-
cessful in her labors; she visited the sick much, was be-
loved by all for her kind and motherly ways, and was
a friend to everybody. Her mind was always searching
out to do good. Firm in every principle of the Gospel,
and loved to speak of the goodness of God. She took
an active part in the Relief Society, was President of
the teachers many years. She was truly a peacemaker
among her sex; had many noble qualities, was a true
Latter-day Saint, resigned to the will of the Lord, will-
ing to live, or go to her heavenly home. One of her
sons had just returned home a few weeks from a mission
to his native land.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting house
which was well filled. The casket containing the body
was covered with flowers, put there by loving hands,
some to represent a crown, and ripe grain, showing a
life well spent. By request Elder C. W. Pe[-]rose
preached the funeral discourse, followed by other
brethren.
	A long train of carriages followed the remains to the
grave. May she rest in peace till the resurrection morn.
											M. R.


[Column 1]
	Secretaries of Relief Society are notified to
send in semi-annual reports by the 15th of Sep-
tember.

	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annu-
al stake reports carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of Sep.,
that a complete and satisfactory report may be
made to the General Conference in October.
Direct the reports to Mrs. E. S. Taylor, P. O.
Box 629, Salt Lake City, Utah.
					LOUIE M. WELLS,
				Secretary Y. L. M. I. A

SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.

HOME PRODUCTIONS.

	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least, give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSRS. SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does no give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP." and accept no
other. If your grocery man does not have it tell him to
write to
				SMITH & CASE.
P. O. Box 504.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.

☞ Agent fo RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Bumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to,
☞ ADDRESS, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY

[Column 2]
For Sale at this office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol.1		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I
SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WORKS AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYES, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Lesidence.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

