Vol. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1884	No. 14


[Column 1]
THE CHRISTMAS GIFT.

The Christmas had come and was over,
And ev'ry one, great and small,
Had rejoiced in that full, glad household
From morn till the twilight fall.
And the children had said in the evening
"There wasn't another thing
To fill up their measure of gladness
Old Santa himself could bring."

So, in the sweetest of "good night" kisses,
Just after the prayers were said,
They laid aside ever treasure
And hastened away to bed;
And soon every light-hearted darling
Was so far away in dreams,
They never came back till the sunshine
Wakened them all with his beams.

And while still dimly recalling
The joys of the day before,
Auntie came in with the tidings
Of one precious treasure more.
"Now rise and come quickly to welcome
the Sweet one that's waiting here,
For rarest and best of all presents,
This new little brother dear."

They whispered a moment together,
When Auntie had shut the door,
Framing a grave "resolution"
Against the glad tidings she bore.
Then they hurriedly dressed, and the whispers,
Grave winks and shakes of the head—
That not even cook could interpret—
Or gather a word that they said—

With three year old Johnnie between them,
Each holding his dimpled hand,
And he looking wisely in league with
What he could not understand,
They started, paused, whispered, proceeded,
Then Mabel herself made bold
To knock at the door, which nurse opened,
Strange enough sight to behold.

Fresh, tidy and sweet, not a smile, though,
Illuminated either dear one's cheek;
But all frowned straight at Auntie,
Waiting for Mabel to speak;
And, hand in hand, all three together,
Set nurse's head in a whirl;
"We're not going to kiss the baby,
Because it isn't a girl!"

And then, while the embassy waited,
Grandma to the rescue came,
To treat with the stern deputation
The message they had proclaimed.
"What! not when the dear little baby
Was sent to us Christmas night,
On the birthday of our dear Savior,
To meet with so cruel a slight?"

Then over the sweet little faces
A wav'ring expression came;
As their glances met, there followed
The rose red color of shame.
"I guess," said the little Mabel, then,
"I guess it wouldn't be right,
For it might be His little brother
That was sent to us last night.

"And oh!  just to think, his birthday's
The happiest day of all!
But he came too late for us to hang
His stocking upon the wall."
"And who'll divide," said grandma, "With
The baby Santa Claus missed,
That came in the stormy night, and then
Was not to be even kissed?"

Then swift to be first to answer her,
Each repentant darling rushed
And shouted, "I;" and they clasped her so
Her ribbons and kerchief were crushed.

[Column 2]
Ah, sweetest of stories that e'er were told!
"The Babe of Bethlehem" lives
And lights in ev'ry heart, the love
That pities and shields and forgives.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
December, 1884.


CHRISTMAS	DAY.

	THE ANTHEM.

	"There were shepherds, abiding in the fields
keeping watch over their flocks by night, and 
lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and
the glory of the Lord shone round about
them, and they were sore afraid. And the
angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I
bring you good tidings of great joy, which
shall be to all people. For unto you is born
this day in the city of David, a Savior, which
is Christ the Lord; and suddenly there was
with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host, praising God add saying, Glory to God in
the Highest, and on earth peace, good will
towards men.”	
	I could not sleep last night; I lay awake long
after the clock “talked small”—of course at
such times the brain has its own panoramic
rambles. Thought was busy with me; one
thought seemed at last to engross the rest—
Christmas! That day of days, and its time of
times, when all Europe, all Christendom cele-
brates it, both in its religious services and in its
joyous festivities. In the Church of England,
my mother church, I must ever remember its
morning service with love and veneration; the
church bedecked in holly and ivy-green, and
its altar table spread with the holy emblems of
the holiest rite any church can observe, covered
with its pure white drapery, et cetera—but my
mind reverted to Christmas day morning ser-
vice in King’s chapel, Cambridge.  I seemed
again within its sublime precincts, which alone
are sufficient to inspire the more devotional
feelings.  Let me describe it—its peculiar
architecture has rendered it as such—the most
renowned building in the world, having one
solid arch throughout without any pillars to-
support it, the ceiling seems drawn together in
compartments by keystones, each weighing one
ton; the entrance is into the ante-chapel, plain
and unadorned, which is divided from the inner
chapel by a superb screen of elaborately
carved oak, embodying historical subjects.
	Through a noble arch in the screen, hung
with heavy crimson silk curtains, the visitor
passes into a scene that at once rivets every
sense and faculty possessed. It is a never-to-
be-forgotten place of worship to the Great
Architect of the Universe.
	I cau but give a faint description.  A tes-
sellated floor; it is surrounded by oaken“stalls,”
elaborately carved, with a reading desk each
side of the entrance; a highly ornamented
stand’for the choristers of the chapel, and the
end of the building is taken up by the altar,
over which is a sublime painting by Rubens
life-size, “Taking down from the cross,”—the
Three Marys; the Beloved Disciple, the cen-
turion, are prominent, figures, but there are
many others—all these make the subject of the
painting.
	The upper part of the chapel is surrounded
fly the magnificent windows of stained glass—
containing the entire life history of the Savior,
from His cradle to His cross—all is elaborate-

[Column 2]
ly and graphically depicted; and when the sun
is shining upon them the effect is marvelously
sublime. This chapel is exclusively for the Fel-
lows and Collegians of King's college, but on
grand days, such as Christmas andEaster,a few
visiters are admitted to the organ gallery by
tickets, the organ being placed in the centre of
the screen.
	All this, like dissolving views, passed
through my waking thoughts; memory was in
full session with its marvelous agency.  Again
I was in that organ gallery on Christmas day
morning.  I remember the soft prelude of the
fine organ, and its accomplished organist, and
then a young chorister in his white surplice
arose and advanced to the front of the orches
tral stand; and once again I seemed to hear
that boy’s rich; silvery voice break forth in the
solo of the thrilling anthem, “There were shep-
herds, et cetera,” that I have placed at the
commencement of my piece.  The solo is
somewhat lengthy, but oh, so beautiful! and
then the whole chapter of gentlemen, choristers
in white surplices join their harmonious voices
in one united volume, “Glory to God. Glory
to God in the Highest.  On earth peace good
will towards men.”
	When I arose in the dawn of the day—all
ha d faded, but I was so impressed with the
beautiful reminiscence that I thought I would
make a pen picture that never-to-be-forgot-
ten scene, which I shall carry with me“beyond
the gates.”

	Then came the festivities of Christmas; all
hearts-seem attuned for enjoyment in their
own especial way, children, sons and daughters
being separated by their avocations, again re-
turn home to spend Christmas; it is ever a time
of reunion for all “sorts and conditions of men
and women."  Girls and boys return from
school for Xmas holidays—all is joy and re-
joicing; the holly and the ivy decorate the
rooms, and the ballroom was not complete with-
out its renowned mistletoe of Druidical honors,
and every ball was drawn to its close by that
dear old-fashioned dance of Sir Roger de Cov-
erly, which when danced truthfully is elegant
in its formal quaintness.
	And then the bells! oh, those tale-telling
bells! What tongues they had for many a
heart and brain!  What volumes they told us
as they “rang in” Christmas day morning, and
rang the old year out and the new year in.
Are we so advanced in this boasted 19th cen-
tury that we have lost the heart-chords and
the brain-wires of ourearly days?  For myself
I can answer, happiness once given is a joy for-
ever, and ’tis written where every coming sea-
son “I turn the leaf to read it.” And as an
accompaniment, my heart and voice chant
forth: “Glory to God in the Highest.”
	HANNAH T. KING.
Dec. 5th, ’84.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

     I think it was in 1832 that the citizens of
Jackson County began to show dissatisfaction
and make some threats in regard to the Mor-
mons, but made no demonstration of wicked-
ness until 1833, when they began to gather in
small parties and commit depredations by night


[Column 1]
[-]y breaking windows and shooting into the
houses of the Saints, and sometimes using
abusive language to our people. I remember
the mob set fire to a large haystack belonging
to father; it was but a short distance from our
house, and it made a tremendous blaze. In this
manner the mob kept annoying the Saints.
They were often holding meetings and forming
resolutions to drive or destroy the Mormons,
and as they said in one of their preambles,
"Peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must."
There was considerable excitement at times,
the Saints not knowing what the mob might be
led to do.
	The brethren in the vicinity where we lived
would gather with their guns, at night, into the
lower room of our house, that they might be
ready for any emergency. Sometimes the wo-
men would come and spend the night with
mother, being afraid to remain at home, be-
cause of the threats of the mob. The women
and children occupied the room upstairs, while
the men stood guard below. Twice guns went
off accidentally; once the ball went up through
the floor and through the head of the bed, but
as the family had not retired, nobody was hurt.
I remember hearing the brethren pray all to-
gether; not as one man, but as many. They
did not then understand the order of prayer
as we do now.
	Children had heard so much about the mob
that the very word was a perfect terror to them.
They would often cry out in their sleep, "The
mob is coming! the mob is coming!"
	When mother's youngest child was about
three weeks old she sent me, with my sister
Harriet, to the spring, a short distance from 
the house, when we looked back and saw about
fifty of the mob surrounding the house. We
stood and looked at them until they rode away,
then we went up to the house again. The mob
had taken father with them. George Simpson
and another of the mob entered the house and
took father by the arm and led him away, he
making no resistance. I think he was expect-
ing something of the kind, as they had made a
good many threats.
	They took him to Independence Square, but
we did not know what they were going to do
with him; it might be kill him; as they had so
often threatened to do. After they had been
gone a while, I stood at the window looking in
the direction they had gone, wondering what
the mob were doing with father, for we could
hear their yells and shouts, when I saw two
men coming toward the house. One I knew—
a young man by the name of Albert Jack-
son—he was carrying in his hand a hat, coat
and vest. The other I thought was an Indian,
and as they seemed to be coming right to the
house I was frightened and ran upstairs; but
when they came in it was our dear father, who had
been tarred and feathered, which gave him the
appearance of an Indian. The mob had done
their work well, for he was covered from head
to foot. I suppose there were hundreds, and
perhaps thousands, who witnessed the outrage.
One woman who witnessed the scene said there
was a bright light encircled father's head while
he was being tarred and feathered. The same
day, I think, Gilbert's store was broken open,
and the goods scattered in the streets. The
printing office was also demolished, and the
press type and papers scattered over the
ground. Bro. Phelps family lived in a part
of the building; they were turned out of doors
and their furniture broken and things scattered 
in the yard.
	While the destruction of the printing office
was going on two young girls, nieces of Elder
Gilbert, had run out of the house and hid in
the corner of the fence, and were watching the
mob in their operations, when they saw them
bring out a table piled with papers, and heard
them say, "Here are the revelations of the
d—d Mormons," They watched their op-

[Column 2]
portunity, when the mob returned to the house,
then they ran and gathered up as many of the
papers as they could hold in their arms and
ran into a cornfield and hid. The mob dis-
covered them running with the papers and fol-
lowed them, but could not ffind them. The
cornfields in Missouri are very large, and the
cornstalks grow so high that they are almost
like young forests, and it is an easy matter for
a person to get lost in one of them. These two
girls had to fund so far that they were lost; but
after a while they succeeded in finding their
way out. They went to an old shanty, where
they found the family of Bro. Phelps trying
to make themselves as comfortable as they
could in their new quarters. Sister Phelps
took the revelations and hid them in her bed,
and this is how some of the revelations were
preserved. The names of these girls were
Mary E. and Caroline Rollins. I remember
many of the circumstances that transpired at
that time, but was too young then to be able to
remeber the particulars well enough to tell
them; consequently I will take some extracts
from the Prophet Joseph's History, as that
gives the situation of things at that time bet-
ter than I can do it.
	He says: "On the 20th of July the mob
collected and demanded the discontinuance of
the printing in Jackson Co., a closing of the
store, and a cessation of all mechanical labors.
The brethren refused compliance, and the con-
sequence was that the house of W. W. Phelps,
which contained the printing establishment,
was thrown down, the materials taken posses-
sion of by the mob, many papers destroyed,and
the family and furniture thrown out of doors.
They then proceeded to violence towards Ed-
ward Partridge, the Bishop of the Church, as
he relates in his autobiography: I was taken
from my house by a mob—George Simpson be-
ing their leader—who escorted me about half
a mile to the court house on the public square
in Independence, and then and there, a few
rods from said court house, surrounded by hun-
dreds of the mob, I was stripped of my hat,
coat and vest, and daubed with tar from head
to foot and then a quantity of feathers put up-
on me; and all this because I would not agree
to leave the country, my home, where I had
lived two years. Before tarring and feathering
me I was permitted to speak. I told them that
the Saints had had to suffer persecution in all
ages of the world, that I had done nothing
which ought to offend any one; that if they
abused me they would abuse an innocent person;
that I was willing to suffer for the sake of
Christ, but to leave the country I was not then
willing to consent to.
	"But this time the multitude made so much
noise that I could not be heard. Some were
cursing and swearing, saying, call upon your
Jesus, etc., others were equally noisy in trying
to still the rest that they might be enabled to
hear what I was saying.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORMON WOMEN.

	I could wish my pen were inspired that I
could write half that is in my heart upon this
subject.
	Many ladies of the world talk of the degra-
dation of Mormon women; but we Mormon
women know better. We know of their purity,
truth, virtue and chastity, having lived with
them over forty years—summered and win-
tered with them all these years, and know the
love, affection and peace in their households.
The writer of this has also lived in the world,
and knows that there is more real happiness
in any real Mormon family (because we know
what constitutes real happiness; we know they
have the love of God shed abroad in their
hearts), than those of our civilized neighbors
of the outside world.


The writer of this is not living with a hus-
band; is not married to her son or grandson; is
not coerced into saying or doing what she does
not wish to. But why measure words with
those  love and make a lie? Is not God
our friend, and will He not come out of His
hiding place in His own due time in our de-
fense?
	The Lord said in answer to the Prophet
Joseph, who was pleading to know how long
His hand should be stayed, or His pure eye be-
hold from heaven the wrongs of His people:
"If thou endure thine adversity and thine
affliction well, God shall exalt thee on high
and thou shalt triumph over all thy foes." How
glorious to have God for our friend, and have
we not proven every day of our lives that He
is our friend? That He hears our prayers and
blesses us, gives us comfort and joy and peace
that the world knoweth not of? Where then,
will be those who love and make a lie, when
Christ shall come with ten thousand of His
Saints, when He shall come to make up His
jewels? God our Father has also said in one
of His revelations: "Cursed are all those who
lift up their heel against mine anointed, saith
the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they
have not sinned, saith the Lord, but have done
that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I
have commanded them."
	My sisters, let  us rejoice that we are per-
mitted to be numbered with those who have
their names cast out as evil for righteousness
sake. Know that if we are faithful we shall
be exalted on high and be crowned in the pres-
ence of God our Heavenly Father.
	AUNT HANNAH.


MISCELLANEOUS

	God's mercy is a holy mercy, which knows
how to pardon sin, not to protect it; it is a
sanctuary for the penitent, not for the presump-
tuous. —Bishop Reynolds.
	"Every day a little knowledge: one fact in a 
day. How small a thing is one fact—only one!
Ten years pass by. Three thousand six hun-
dred and fifty facts are not a small thing."
	"The conditions of success are these: First,
work; second, concentration; third, fitness. La-
bor is the genius which changes the ugliness of
the world into beauty; that turns the greatest
curse into a blessing."
	I used to wonder why people should be so
fond of the company of their physician, till I 
recollected that he is the only person with
whom one dares talk continually of one's self,
without interruption, contradiction, or censure.
—Hannah Moore.
	"The tenacity of impressions received in
childhood is a factor that should be held most
important in every scheme of early education.
Some of the sweetest associations with nature
date back from that period, and we may often
trace their quaint ring in the matured poetry
of men or women."
	As "unfinished business" in legislation is
one of the elements of confusion, so is it  in the 
individual conduct. It becomes a "standing
head" in every day's report. It is acumula-
tive evil, and while it calls the daily life, con-
fuses the daily thought, and mocks our good
purpose, it closes many a life with the unsatis-
factory epitaph "unfinished."
	"In most German States foresters are trained
for the due conservation and regulation of the
public and private wooded areas, and colleges
for this purpose are established in Scandinavia,
Russia, France, and in the United States, which
is now so earnestly looking to the cultivation
of arboricultural science as one of the future
sources of national wealth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DEAD YEAR

Dead, dead, old Year, are all thy happy days,
The flow’rs of Spring that gemmed thy pleasaht ways;
The birds that sang on many a clustered bough
In chorus sweet are hushed in silence now;	
	The year is dead;
The fruit is gathered in, the leaves are fled.

Oh, tell us,&nbsp;vanished joys, what way ye went— 
Ye moonlit evening hours, from Eden lent,
Ye fragrant morns half girt with silver mist,
With clouds of crimson, rose, and amethyst !
	Where are ye now,
Ye dreams that Time’s stern teachings disallow?	
Where are ye? For to-night strange ghosts do rise
And vex my loneliness with eager eyes,
With sweet pale faces, fair and full of light.
Ah, how they throng around my hearth to-night,
	And whisper low
In tones that death has silenced long ago !

Nor these alone; for there are deeper eyes,
With glances keen as stars in winter skies
In the last moments of the passing year
The guardian angel of our souls comes near,
	And, good or ill,
Of every life makes a faithful record still.

Look back, my heart, through all the crowded days—
Their acted falsehoods and uneven ways,
Their ceaseless care and strivings after naught—
Nor wonder at the change the years have wrought,
	Nor think good fruit
Can ever grow on folly’s bramble shoot.

O winds, the softest dirges ye can sing
To this unquiet&nbsp;soul no peace can bring,
No healing balm ! With our own hands we twine
The shackles ’neath whose weight we most repine.
	Through this new year
God grant us strength to go with conscience clear.
	SUSANNA J.


THE FAREWELL OF THE
			OLD YEAR.

	When the moments of friendship are numbered,
	How oft it appears
	That the love which in laughter has slumbered
	Awakes now in tears!

We are friends that have journeyed together 
	Long time, you and I;
Through sunshine and stormiest weather,
	But the old year must die.

	And awhile in your hearts will awaken
	A bitter regret;
And the paths that your feet have forsaken
	You cannot forget.

	Yet I pray you to mourn not my going,
	Though we have been friends;
	What am I but one billow, whose flowing
	Has touched shore, and ends?

	And the tale of my joy and my sorrow
	Lives but as the trace
	Of the waves, that the tides of the morrow
	In turn shall efface.

	Yet I leave you, as waves leave their treasures
	Of coral and shell,
	A gift, passing sorrows and pleasures,
	Our friendship to tell.

	I leave you the friendships, whose growing
	Has been from my birth;
	There is nought that the tide brings in flowing
	Can equal their worth.

	For as shells from the murmurs of ocean
	Steal echoes that last,
	So in friendship is stored the emotion
	Of years that are past.				F. W. B.
	"Spectator."


[Column 1]
SCENERY ON THE D. AND R. G. R. W.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     One who has lived in a mountainous country
all his life is always prepared for majestic
sights; and while they never fail to delight a
lover of nature, they are seldom a source of
surprise. I had heard of the grandeur on the
[Column 2]
Denver and Rio Grande Railway, and I was
prepared to be pleased, but not surprised.  The
first day out the scenery is like most other
mountain scenery in Utah--picturesque, rural
and majestic successively.  There is a precept-
ible change, however, when Castle Valley is
reached.  It is impossible that the whole of the
section known as Castle Valley should be re-
presented by that portion of it through which
the "little giant" runs while day-light lasts.
There is a preceptible decrease in the height of
the mountains.  They widen out; the country
is more of a rolling character; the soil is of a
lightish color, and it is evident there is an
abundance of clay.  The streams are very few
and very far between, and the whole country
is barren and cheerless.  It is not, however,
without interest to the sight viewer, and in
some particulars reminds me very forcibly of
Southern Utah, or that portion of it below the
rim of the basin.
     There are crags and castellated peaks pre-
senting a very picturesque appearance to the
eye.  Hills rise up abruptly in the middle of
the plain and assume varied forms, attractive
because of their irregularity.  There seems lit-
tle question that the surface, or superficial ap-
pearance is the result of aqueous agencies.  The
whole valley has been covered with mighty
streams, which have carried away the soft soil
and left standing the harder substances, wrought
into innumerable forms and shapes and leav-
ing some entirely amorphous.  The rains and
frosts have broken fragments away from the
original mass, and they have fallen piece by
piece at the foot of the present mound;  they
give the impression that the mounds have been
undermined and a heavy cave of earth has re-
sulted.  The variety of forms, the wooded hills,
abrupt declines, elevated peaks, some standing
high and alone, and then a succession of them
of equal height resembling the teeth of an im-
mense and jagged saw--when seen in the dis-
tance and toned down by the intervening at-
mosphere; is picturesque and attractive indeed.
Of the country passed through at night of
course I can give no idea.
     The Marshall Pass is a very interesting point.
So far as the scene is concerned, independent
of the engineering feat in scaling the mountain
at a height of 10,800 feet above the sea level,
every person familiar with mountain scenery
has seen its equal.  It is a very beautiful sight,
as a natural picture, but associated with the
engineering feat referred to, it is a scene grand
in every respect.  It is not a little remarkable
to note the extent to which works of human 
ingenuity add to the sublimity of the works of
nature, when they are associated together, and
the scaling of the Marshall's Pass by the D. &
R. G., is especially noteworthy as an illustration.
It seems incredible to look out of the car win-
dow at the track winding round the mountain
side and think it should be scaled, but it seems
even more of an impossibility when the feat
has been accomplished to look down upon one,
two, three, or even five railroad tracks, far be-
low, and then believe they are all but portions
of one continuous line of rails over which we
have passed on the magnificent ascent.  To
gain this summit requires 17 miles of circui-
tous climbing up a continuous incline.  There
is now, however, a proposition to reduce the
distance to five miles, which is to be accom-
plished by running a tunnel through the moun-
tains a distance of two miles.  This would in-
dicate that twelve miles are lost in running
over mountain sides.  One does not feel any
sense of danger, and the deep gorges and
wooded hills stretching far below, as one gazes
from the car window, present a rich and de-
lightfully pleasing picture to the eye. 
     But there is really a beautiful piece of
scenery on the line--grand not because of any
metaphysical conditions, but from the operation
of natural influences pure and simple.  It is
[Column 3]
in the grand canyon of the Arkansas River. 
The road follows the windings of this river for
a long distance, till it finally enters the canyon
above named.  For miles and miles down this
gorge there seems to be scarcely a particle of
straight track, and the train flies along all the
while as serpentine in its movements as a whip,
before the point has reached its outward limit.
It is impossible to make the road bed straight,
for the reason that it had to follow the course
of the river, and even in doing so, and after
blasting and making a bed everywhere possi-
ble, the river at one point is so hemmed in by
towering rock cliffs that the rock is suspended
over the stream, and held up by an angular
arch--taking an almost inadmissible license
for the sake of clearness--which spans the
river and is bedded in the solid rock on either
side. And here the scene is painfully grand.
As the train winds along the eye turns heaven-
ward in search of the blue sky and in the hope
of seeing the top of the perpendicular solid
rock walls which rise half a mile into the air.
For miles there is not a place in which a tele-
graph pole can be planted, the result being that
iron arms are drilled into the solid rock, and
the crosses bearing the insulators are placed on
them.  The peculiar sensation which the inde-
scribable and lowering majesty the scene im-
presses, I find it absolutely impossible to ex-
press.  The nearest attempt to the ideal de-
scription my soul craves, in which begins to ap-
proach the ideal, is the remark made by a
quiet young man who was viewing the sight by
my side on the rear of the platform, and who,
like me, held his hat with one hand and had a
dead grip on the railing with the other.  After
all had exhausted themselves in superlative ex-
clamations of wonder and admiration, he quiet-
ly turned on his heel, and as he walked
through the door he remarked, "Well, that do
take the bun."
     I would be glad to give even the faintest idea
of the marvelous and majestic grandeur of the
scene, but if you can imagine a stream running
between massive cliffs whose summits are a
half a mile high, and as straight as an arrow--
so straight that they often seem to overhang the
track--if you can imagine these cliffs, piled
one on top of another, without the faintest
shadow of order, a chaotic mass, with the strata
turned in every conceivable direction, if you
can imagine this and a little narrow guage rail-
road track hugging close to the feet of one of
these giants, a mere speck, then you can im-
agine something--but not this scene. it seemed
to me as the engine whistle echoed and re-echoed
through the "Royal Gorge," which, by the way,
is its "purty" name, that the vibrations might
shake some of the jutting crags from their lofty
places and precipitate them down the dark ra-
vine and crush the puny little instrument,
which is used to convey man with lightning ra-
pidity from point to point, to a shapeless pulp.
It seemed to me that it--but as it didn't, it
makes little difference what it seemed.
	As it might appear immodest to cite one's
own experience it may, perhaps, be better to
give that of a gentleman who had traveled all
through the Rockies.  He said he had seen
much and imagined more, but he had never
seen, had never dreamed of anything so dread-
fully grand as the "Royal Gorge."  For myself
I will merely add that I do not regret the ex-
perience; I am glad I went, and saw, and got
through, but, like it always reminds me of
tooth pulling experience--a fellow is powerful
glad when the aching molar is out, but I never
knew a person who was particularly fascinated
with the prospect of a repetition of the experi-
ence.
				WANDERING BOY.


"Politeness is like an air-cushion; there may
be nothing in it, but  eases our jolts wonder-
fully."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  [o]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT OFFICE, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all  business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,  DECEMBER 15, 1884.


CHRISTMAS.

	There is no holiday in all the year with so
many endearing recollections; so many charm-
ing reminiscences, such tender associations, and
altogether such wonderful fascination hanging
over and around it, as Christmas.  It is the day
of days, with the children more especially, when
they expect all sorts of gifts and treasures.  No
wonder the children love the day, it is the time
most prescient of good to them, and to all man-
kind.  The birth time-- the sweet and touching
story of the Savior's birth never grows old, no
matter how oft told.  Christmas Eve!  when the
self-same stars that guided the wise men of
Bethlehem shine down upon us, and we feel
such a holy presence, such a reverential awe, as
though angels were hovering near, and with
glad songs of rejoicing were echoing back from
the ages past Hosannahs to God in the Highest;
Peace on Earth and good will to all mankind.'
How the human heart clings to those words
divine with their answering aspirations.
How they lift the soul into a higher region of
thought and feeling. And the little ones par-
take the spirit of the day and interpret in their
own simple but eloquent way every expression
of sentiment and fancy that is uttered or felt by
the older people.  
	Christmas has grown now to be somewhat
American, where fifty years ago only the Cath-
olics and Church of England people kept Christ-
mas by any religious observance, and very few of
the descendants of the Puritans noticed it at all
as a day of gifts and rejoicing. But time in its
plodding course onward wears away old feuds
and grievances, and even the feeling of bitter-
ness between nations at variance, and during
the last half century many English customs and
much of the English manner has grown into 
the American character; and observances and
ceremonies once entirely discarded by the Puri-
tan forefathers and foremothers have become so
common that the children and young people to-
day are not aware of the strong prejudices that
once existed, and for many years were so decid-
ed against anything that savored of the special
celebrations of the country out of which they
had been cruelly driven on account of their re-
ligion. 
	Thanksgiving Day took on more of less the
character of Chistmas, and although it was not
considered "Gift day," yet there were always
church services in the morning and afterwards
gatherings, reunions, family dinners, evening
festivities, and the decorations with winter flow-
ers, the trailing ivy, and evergreens festooned
fantastically and ornamented with red berries,
and other appropriate symbols of hilarity and
mirth. In place of the real "Yule log" of Eng-
land  the New England people made huge fires
of pine knots, so gnarled and twisted that when
blazing the flame presented the most weired and
grotesque appearance, and when the rooms were
hung with green boughs and vines and all the
paraphernalia of the devotees of pleasure, one can
easily imagine legends and fairy tales to be true
and for a short time at least abandon himself to 
the full enjoyment of the passing pleasure. 
	Generally in every town there is music, either
vocal or instrumental, more often both, and
though the snow may fly without and the north
wind blow, yet all is busy life and eager expect-
ancy within.  New Year's Day was gift day
among the primitive New England folk, and so
they parried Christmas off  each side with
Thanksgiving solemnity and merry making, and
New YEars with glad greetings and welcome
gifts.
	But now the older people even, who were un-
accustomed in childhood to "hanging up the
stocking," have become so familiar with this
old-time German-English practice that they
have grown as well acquainted with Santa Claus
and all the legends of Christmas holidays as
those who were to the manner born, and the
ring of his reindeer bells as he glides at mid-
night over the house-tops are only the echoes of
the music of happy hours that are lived over
and over again in imagination; and it is not now
considered heterodox to feign a belief in
Santa Claus for the children's sake, but quite
the proper thing, and in harmony with the now
moderate but once stern and rigid ideas of New
England propriety and realism. 
	The family gatherings and friendly reunions
are blessed seasons of refreshing, and sure to
strengthen the ties of love that bind together
those that are endeared to each other through
association or the attachment of kindred blood
How happy are those who can assemble on
these precious days and feel that all is well, that
there are no absent faces to be mourned for, no
vacant places reminding them of an irreparable
loss.
	The writer believes most firmly in these fami-
ly dinners.  They keep fresh and green the
flowers of friendship -- and such times and such
places become hallowed shrines in the Temple of
Memory where one turns with loving tender-
ness and recalls in vision the cherished few who
met at the same fireside, who shared the honors
at the festive board, and forever and forever do
the bells of memory ring on, repeating o'er and
o'er each jewelled name.
	Sometimes fortune divides the family circle,
and for a time some one is missed of the loved
ones who helped to make the chain complete;
but if only absent for a time "on pleasure or on
business bent'--it is not right to murmur or
wear a brow of sadness, for "to be parted in body
is not to be estranged in soul-- and many a
dream--and many a vision may pass before the
mind of one whose lips are silent."
	There is one thing all should do at Christmas
time, if they wish to emulate the Savior and do
honor to "the babe in Bethlehem born," and
that is, to remember the poor, and out of the
substance God has given to each, donate lib-
erally to those less fortunate-- let none go cold or
hungry on that day, lest their cries should en-
ter into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth for a
testimony against those who heed not the in-
junction:  "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the
least of these, ye have done it unto me."


HOME AFFAIRS.
	On Tuesday, Dec. 9th, Sisters M. I. Horne, B.
W. Smith, H. M. Whitney and E. S. Taylor
went to Mill Creek to attend a special meeting
of the Relief Society at that place.  There were
two sessions, morning and afternoon, and dinner
in the hall during the intermission, at which
about seventy-five persons were comfortably
seated and enjoyed a bounteous repast.  The 
meetings were presided over by Mrs. Elizabeth
Hill, President of the Relief Society of Mill
Creek Ward; Bishop Hamilton was present and
made some remarks, also Bro. Snedakar.  The
morning meeting was addressed by Sisters
Horne, Taylor and Whitney, and the afternoon
by Sister Smith and others.  The sisters en-
joyed themselves very much indeed and passed
a very pleasant day in the society of the sis-
ters of Mill Creek.  The benediction was pro-
nounced by Patriarch James Works.
	A second edition of the Compendium has been
issued by the publishers and is now for sale; it is
a book that every Elder of the Church needs,
and Sabbath School teachers and officers of Pri-
mary Associations, and Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. 
A. would do well to purchase a copy, for
their own individual use for reference and
authority.  For Scriptural and other proof of the
Gospel it is invaluable.
	The stores and shops in the city are beginning
to put on a holiday appearance and one cannot
help feeling that the Christmas and New Year's
festivities are near.  There are more elegant and
beautiful things now seemingly than there ever
were before, for every show window is ornament-
ed with the rarest, choicest and loveliest goods
of all conceivable varieties, shapes, colors and
kind.  Surely the most fastidious purchaser can
find presents for his friends to gratify his taste
or theirs.  Everything seems perfect now on the
most elaborate scale, almost all books are illus-
trated, and expensive material used for covers as
well.  But there are books of all kinds in the
market, and prices ranging from a very trifle to
a large amount.  There is no lack of reading mat-
ter at the present time, and the Latter-day
Saint books alone would furnish a library hand-
somely.  It is to be hoped that the people will
remember "Mormon" literature while gathering
up Christmas gifts; as a people the Saints should
patronize the writings of this people as much as
their handiwork, and by this means create an
ambition in the youth of Zion to write good and
useful books.
	We have for sale at this office the books of
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, as advertised in an-
other column of the EXPONENT;	and Mrs. Han-
nah T. King's "Epic Poem," paper cover, 25cts,
bound in cloth 50 cts; Mrs. helen Mar Whitney's
"Why we practice Plural Marriage," paper cov-
er, 25 cts.; Mrs. Hannah T. Cornaby's "Auto-
biography and Poems," $1.00; Mrs. Augusta J.
Crocheron's "Representative Women of Dese-
ret," 75 cts. Any one of these books is suitable
to give a friend as a remembrance on Christmas
or New Year's, and there is nothing more appro-
priate than books for Christmas gifts.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, December 26 and 27,
commencing at 10 a.m. and  Y. L. M. I. 
A. at 2 p.m. as usual.  It is to be hoped there
will be a goodly number attend these meetings,
that the sisters may be encouraged in their du-
ties, and not only receive the instruction they
need in the performance of the same, but also
"a word in due season," for O, how good and
how precious a thing it is.


EXTRACTS AND REMARKS. 
	The Deseret News, Dec. 10th, published a let-
ter from a Methodist in Bozeman, Montana, in
which he sets forth his ideas of the way in
which he would treat the “Mormon problem."
He says: 
EDITOR DESERET NEWS: 
	Through the kindness of some of your good


Mormon women I received a couple of little
Mormon books a few weeks ago.  They are the
first Mormon works that I ever read.  I was
not a little surprised while reading Mrs. Croche-
ron’s “Representative Women of Deseret,” to
find that so many of your Mormon women were
from New England, where wisdom is supposed
to have originated.  From the stories, that we
commonly hear of the ignorance of the Mormon
women I had almost made up my mind that
they must have come from some place where
they keep the run of the day of the week by
cutting a notch on a stick every morning. But
I find that some of them have even come from
Boston, the “hub of the universe.” So you can
plainly see that it has not been the reading of
Mormon books that has shaken my faith in the
present marriage system.
	The writer then makes further explanations
on the subject, very logical, and speaks of the
wretchedness resulting from monogamous mar-
riages in the world.  Refers those who find
fault with the system of a plurality of wives to
the Bible; and after telling some very plain and
unvarnished truths about the matter, he goes
on to say:
	“I often hear Christians tell of the joy and
bliss they expect to feel when they get to Abra-
ham’s bosom.  I don’t suppose that they have
ever stopped to think that Sarah, Keturah and
Hagar will be there; also Jacob, Leah, Rachel
and the two handmaids.  I have an idea they
will have to change their minds before they get
to Abraham’s bosom, or they are liable to be-
come dissatisfied with the country after they
get there, and there will be only one thing left
for them to do.  That is, to take Horace Greeley’s
advice and “go west.’
	“When the affairs of this world are all wound
up:  when all nations, kindreds and tougues shall
assemble for the great coronation of the King of
kings and Lord of lords, it does not seem to me
to be just right to have Abraham, Jacob, and
all the polygamists of old there, and at the same
time have the Mormons shut oat for the crime
of polygamy.  I am going to be there myself,
God being my helper, and if I.find that state of
things there you may look for me to come to the
door of that great banqueting hall and cry at
the top of my voice:
	"Let every kindred, every tribe,
		On this terrestrial ball,
	To him all majesty ascribe, 
		And crown him Lord of all. 

	"Oh!  that with yonder sacred throng
		We at his feet may fall;
	Come join the everlasting song,
		And crown him Lord of all.”

	This is only a part of the letter, but it shows
that there are a few people who are not quite
ready to shut the Mormons oat of the kingdom
of heaven.
	It is true that of the twenty-one women, a
sketch of whose lives are published in the book
he mentions, seventeen of them were either
born in New England or of New England par-
entage.  It has often been remarked as singular
that the descendants of the very people who fled
from the mother country because of religious in-
tolerance, should be the very men and women
to help lay the foundation of what is termed a
new religion in the new world.  It has been
said by one of the noted American writers that
“Mormonism is the only new religion America
can boast.” It is indeed the opening up of a
new dispensation with a religion as old as eter-
nity, that with its covenants, ordinances and
blessings reaches back to the beginning of time,
and grasping the present,extends forward to the
ages that are to come encircling the living and
the dead, and finally blending in one united an-
them the past, present and future,brought about
by means of those sacred and holy principles
that the world so condemn and despise.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS IN BERNE
	A most interesting event in this strange city
is the market.  It takes place every Tuesday and
Saturday, and was par[-]cularly interesting just
before Christmas.  On Monday, Tuesday being
the holiday this week, large crowds of people
collected from all parts and the streets were lit-
erally thronged. 
	Most of the selling and buying here is done
out of doors and at a time l ke the winter holi-
days the streets ase all decked and ornamented
with the artic es of every description.  The princi-
pal thoroughfares become a large variety estab-
lishment, where one walks from one department
to another instead of walking, as one might sup-
pose, through the streets.
	Here we pass a stand of Berner carving works,
then another of ornamental "Leckerli"--a sort
of ginger cake with figures on it; now an old
woman with suspenders hanging all over her,
and a basket of them in her hands; next a man
covered with needles and pins and a tray of
them in front of him; a cart follows filled with
dolls and toys of all kinds, and presently one
sees a line hung with stockings and woolen
goods, after which comes a table of wooden shoes
--and so the sight goes on, extending for many
blocks.  These stands are mostly placed on either
side of the street, and straight through the cen-
tre stands a row of Christmas trees.
	At such times, of course, many children are
to be seen.  On Monday the people on the street
were amused and perhaps saddened a little by
tha sight of two little boys, the older scarcely
more than five years, shabbily dressed, walking
along singing at the top of their voices.  The
children sang remarkably well, giving the Al-
pine "Yodel" clearly and sweetly, too.
	Christmas morning at five o'clock the balls in
the large Muenster began to ring, and rang
every quarter of the succeeding hour, at the
conclusion of which service began.  It was a
clear, cold morning, and a perfect quiet pervailed
everywhere, the only sounds being the rich
tones of the bells and  steps and voices of the
people as they gathered to the church for wor-
ship.
	This Muenster is one of the largest churches in
Switzerland, and was erected in the 15th cen-
tury.  It stands near the centre of the old city,
and the tower commands a most lovely view,
reaching far over the city to the snow covered
Alps. It has never yet been finished, and is
never likely to be.  Its bells are very musical,
being indescribably sweet and deep in tone. The
belfry contains five large and several small ones,
the largest of these being the sixth in size in
the world, weighing 26,700 pounds.  The bell at 
the very top of the tower, rung only at New
Year's, is solid silver, and is the largest silver
bell in Europe.  The metal from which it was
made was brought here, so says the sacristan, by
the first settlers, eighteen hundred years ago.
	A family lives in this belfry to take charge of
it and see to the bells.  They have been there
twenty-eight years and know no other life.
They laughingly reply in answer to our com-
menton their elevated home, that they only
have to ascend one flight of stairs.  True enough,
only a flight of 224 steps would seem long
enough to be subdivided a few times.
	At a quarter to nine Christmas day all these 
bells rang out at the same time, making the air
fairly quiver with their music.  Twenty-one
men were engaged pulling the ropes.  At nine
service was again held, then at one and again at
three, after which followed a communion ser-
vice.  
	Christmas here is not the occasion of any jolli-
fication or musical merriment.  Everything is
quiet and peaceful, the day being celebrated in
the homes with Christmas trees, good dinners
and, I hope, happy hearts. 	A. W. C.


PEACE.
	The peace of God passeth understanding, it
reigns pre eminent, eternal in the heavens.
When man came from his Maker all was peace.
Our Heavenly Father planted it in every bosom
and if sought it will abide in every child of
God.  The Great Redeemer was all peace—the
“Prince of Peace.” The Holy Babe cradled in
Bethlehem's manger was peace quiescent.
	The mandates of the Lord were given in love
—obedience from His children was required.
The ambitious son of the morning waged war
in heaven--pride was his fall, rebellious, disobe-
dience.  The flat went forth when he, with all
his hosts, were hurled from the presence of Je-
hovah.  Peace was destroyed; tumult, war and
terror were his offspring.  Where he reigns there
is no respite, no peace, no rest, no quiet; all hos-
tile to all good.  His race is nearly done; his
doom is sealed; his chains are ready.  The ever-
lasting Gospel is restored.  The great Millennial
rest it dawning on us.
	Peace from the four corners of the earth will
be proclaimed.  Christ with ten thousand
Saints will come in glory with the New Jerusa-
lem and plant His foot in Zion, when the Saints
of latter days will shout, "Hosannah! Peace!
Peace! All is Peace!"
	Christ did come, and soon will come again.
Pause, and with reverence mark the contrast. 
He came their Redeemer, Humble, Immaculate
and Peaceful.  The proud nobles of the earth
spurned and rejected Him.  He did His mission
and with the approbation of His Father returned
into His presence.
	The honorable of the earth, His faithful saints,
are waiting, watching, and with an intensity of
love and adoration burning within them, are
longing to behold Him at His second coming,
when he will come with an immensity of glory
as King of kings and Lord of lords.  Then will
Time be swallowed up in Eternity.  Peace will
reign triumphant.		ANN GELL.
	Whitechapel, London.


ANOTHER TESTIMONY OF THE GIFT
OF HEALING.

CANTERBURY, New Zealand.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Through the medium of your valuable paper
I wish to make it known and to testify to the
power of God and the gift of healing.
     For many years I have been a sufferer from a
diseased leg, and at different times have sought
relief from various sources, but without any
beneficial results.  A few months ago my leg
became so much worse that my friends feared
for my life, and I was advised by people again
to seek for medical advice and relief, but having
lost faith in the wisdom of man, I determined
to rely wholly upon the power of God; accord-
ingly the Elders of the Church were called in,
anointed me with oil and administered to me;
the result of which is manifest, for from that
time my leg improved and I am now fully res-
tored to health and am anxious to testify to the
world of the goodness of God towards me.
     It is a consolation for us to know that the gifts
and blessings that existed in the primitive
church are again extant upon the earth and we


have the right to avail ourselves of these privi-
leges. How much more earnest we should
strive to be in promug[-]ing the principles of the
Gospel, so that others also might enj[-]y these
blessings.  My heart is filled with joy and re-
joicing,and with gratitude to God for this mani-
festation of His power.
     Stray copies of your interesting paper some-
times come this way and are read with avidity
by all the members of this small branch of the
Church. We are few in numbers, but are doing 
the best we can; and though we have a bitter
spirit of opposition to contend with, are enjoy-
ing a rich portion of the Spirit of God, and are
looking forward to the time when the Lord will
gather us to the valley, that we may assemble
with His people. and learn more fully of His
ways.
 Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel,
				MARY ANN SIMPSON.
Witnessed by
E.S.T. SIMPSON,
ARTHUR PORTER,
LOUISA PORTER.

NOV. 8, 1881.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

	To the memory of Margaret T. Smoot, (wife of
President A. O. Smoot) Stake President of the
Relief Society of Utah County, who departed
this life September 1st. 1881.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His divine
Providence has called away our beloved Presi-
dent, Margaret T. Smoot, after a long life of use-
fulness spent in His Kingdom here upon the
earth, to join those behind the veil;
	Resolved, That while we feel to bow to His
most holy will, we miss our sister from our as-
sociations, and her wise, motherly counsels from
our circles.
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, will hold her memory
sacred, and strive in our lives to follow her
teachings, and remember her wise counsels, in-
asmuch as she was ever a comforter to those in
distress and a ministering angel at the bedside
of the sick, ever striving to allay suffering and
sorrow wherever she found it.
	Resolved, That we, the Relief Society of Utah
County, do tender our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family in the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife and mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of each society in the
county, and a copy sent to the Territorial En-
quirer and WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.		MARY JOHN,
		RHODA LYMAN,
	C. DANIELS, Secretary.


[Column 1]		

	A REVERIE.

	If there is anything that is really comforting
when I want to collect my thoughts, and peer
far into the future, or call up a vision of the
past, it is to sit in the dusk of evening, or when
the rest of the household have retired, all
alone in a dim shadowy room in front of a
grate full of live, red coals—sit and dream,
wide awake, O such delightful dreams! though
tinged with sadness.   Imagination, however,
must be vivid and the mood, must be decided-
ly reflective. The mind can wander away then
even into green lanes, where one hears merry
voices, and sees troops of boys and girls, and
their laughter rings out so clearly that it makes
me start, and although I sit here by the fire in
bleak December, I feel the warmth of the sun-
light and see the blue sky overhead, and I see
many, many curious and familiar places and 
people; in fact I dream so long that I wonder

[Column 2]
whether I am my real self, or if the morning
will find me going about my accustomed duties.
What thought spring up and resolve them-
selves into such real substances, as to almost
take on shapes of things, unseen, and yet to the
mind tangible. We feel and know that the 
heart beats still, that we are sensiblie to feeling,
therefore this must be only a dreamy phantasy,
a reverie, but we can see things that are not,
yet things that were.
	O, if the pen could only paint in telling 
words the scenes that pass before the eyes at
such times, it would be most interesting; but
unfortunately these are things one can never
describe accurately, or make another realize;
but for once I will tell you what I may of what
I see, although, perchance, you've seen the
same yourself a hundred times; but then, you
know, one's experience testifies to another's.
	I see a group of girls, not all so very hand-
some, but all pretty, with bright eyes and
pearly teeth, red lips and thoughtful faces;
some have dark eyes and dark hair, others blue
eyes and light hair; some are tall and others
small in stature, but nearly of the same age.
There are seven of them in the room and evi-
dently there is something unusual going on,
or about to take place, by the expression of
their countenances.
	It is a low, wide room with a great open fire-
place, and the wood piled high on the brass
andirons that are polished as bright as gold.
Shall we listen, for their lips move?  Susan,
one of the smaller and younger girls, is saying:
"I wonder where we'll be next year at this
time? Now that we are going away for vacation
and the holidays we might fall in love!"  "And 
I wonder," and Hannah, an older and wiser
looking one, with liquid black eyes that seemed
to read the thoughts of all the others, "whether 
any of us will be married." "And now," said
Sarah, who spoke like an oracle, "while we are
all here together, let us make a vow, and let
us be sure and keep it!" "What shall it be?"
from all the girls at once. "That none of us
will marry a man who had not a professional
title." And thereupon all the seven consented.
This may seem very silly to those who read it,
but if they could see those charming girls as I 
see them, they would readily comprehend that
singular vow as significant of the future of
these school-girls, for such they are, just about
to separate and each go her own way, treading
new paths, always sunny and pleasant while
youth and hope beat high and fortune smiles.
The girls linger over the fire and talk of home,
the journey they mustbegin to-morrow, the
hopes of success in this or that direction, until
the clock strikes the hour of midnight, and
then reluctantly they reitre, with an almost sad
"good night" to each other, for they know that 
on the morrow they must say a fond good
bye.
	To tell the story of each of these young
girls as we know it, and as we see it to-night
in mental vision, would be to write seven
chapters; for each would need its own, for their
lives lay far apart, and indeed, after that night,
only two of the seven ever saw each other
again. But perhaps you would like to know if
they married, and whether they kept sacred
the foolish vow they made, and if they loved
and were happy? I'll tell you one or two
things and leave the remainder of my story
for a sequel. They all, save one, lived long
enough to repent the idle promise made to
each other, and to realize that true, genuine
worth does not consist in a professional title.
Of course they silently reserved to themselves
the privilege of loving the man, as well as ad-
miring a title. Perhaps I might as well tell
you, lest your curiosity should cause you men-
tal anxiety, something about the fate of these
enthusiastic school-girls.
	Elizabeth, a tall, queenly looking girl, whose
accomplishments were superior to most of the
others, and who lived in a large city, married,

[Column 3]
within a year, a French Count—who had
neither money or brains, and who had not the
least practical idea of life, and of course made
her days perfectly wretched;  I will let your
imagination conjure up the untold story of her
repentance for the foolish vow she had made.
	Three of the girls, Sarah, Anna and Grace,
entered the list of teachers, and though one
might fancy they might have learned wisdom
through such an experience, still two of them
married, when an opportunity offered—such as 
they thought acceptable—and each one had
her own life history; a full one too.
	Ophelia, who was totally unlike the other 
girls in almost every respect, prouder and more
reticent, was already in love with a young
physician, and in due time they were united.
But she won him through strategy from the
girl he loved, and she found, when it was too
late, that her cup of misery was full to over-
flowing, and ere she had completed the seventh
year of her wedded life she was an inmate of
an insane asylum.
	Thus does retribution ever follow those who,
by duplicity and cunning, seek to destory an-
other's happiness to secure their own.
	Of all the seven girls who that night con-
versed together so full of life and happiness,
whose future seemed so full of bright prom-
ises of success in whatever undertaking they
might venture upon, only two of them ever
gained a crown worth wearing, and these two
girls became members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. One of these died
of hardship and privation, brought about by
the cruel persecutions and drivings of wicked
mobs, but she died with a glorious hope and 
assurance of an immortal crown and title in
the world to come.
	One of that number still lives in far off New
England, a rich but lonely and disappointed
old maid. Some day I'll tell you the rest of
the story, for it is late now and the fire had
gone so low that my reverie is ended, and I,
too, must retire, for on the morrow there is
work to do, and I am sure this is enough for
one chapter of the story of seven.
	AUNT EM.


A WELL DRESSED WOMAN.
	She was not beautiful, nor even pretty; and
so, madam, you may let down your nostrils and
uncurl the corners of your mouth. She had
not even a fine figure, in which very important
respect she was only "fair to middling," as they
say in trade. But as she approached us we
were conscience of a subtle sense of pleasure.
As she came nearer and nearer this increased,
and when it became all too certain that it was
not her beauty which awoke this delightful
sensation there was a moment of thoughtful
hesitation in the mind, and then it became
clear enough that it was the woman's dress that
was so beautiful, and that it was the extreme
rarity of this particular kind of beauty which
made the sensation we have mentioned. Of
course we must tell what this dress was.
Nothing easier. It was a simple loose gown
high upon the shoulders, girdled closely but
not tightly at the waist, and falling in light
easy folds, not to the ground, but nearly to the
ground behind and not quite so low before, so
that as the woman walked not even the hem of
her garments swept the sidewalk. There was
not a flounce, or a ruffle, or a plait, or a patch
of trimming of any kind upon the dress, the
skirt of which was simple enough to afford per-
fect ease of motion and to be graceful, but was
not full, was not tied back, did not hang over
a bustle, and there was no overskirt. The ma-
terial was muslin, or some cotton stuff: and--
oh, madam! read, mark, and inwardly digest--
it was not starched. It did not stand stiff, or
break up into patches, or make a rustling or
crackling as she walked. I was soft in texture,


soft in its outlines, and noiseless. Had it no
ornament at all?  Yes, indeed. Around the
bottom hem, at the wrists, and at the throat,
there was a narrow figured border of blue,
beautiful in design and in color, which gave
the dress a perfect finish, and was attractive
in itself without being at all obstrusive. Over
this dress she wore a short, light garment of
the same material, sleeveless and falling to the
hips. This costume might have been worn by
a Greek woman, by Aspasia herself, to the de-
light of Pericles, and yet there was nothing
about it which seemed outre or even strange,ex-
cept its simple elegance. Who the woman was
who thus clothed herself with beauty will prob-
ably ever remain a fact unknown in the mod-
ern history of costume.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
    I feel it a pleasure to pen a few lines to my
sister, the readers of the Exponent. We
often read of the good times enjoyed by our
sisters in associating together at meetings, so-
ciables and birthdays; so we thought we would
let you know we were not far behind in that
line here in Arizona. Not long since I had
the pleasure to meet and shake hands with an
old friend, sister and neighbor from your city,
who is at present the guest of Prest. Layton.
    The 16th of September was the birthday of
our highly esteemed sister, Elizabeth Layton;
quite a number of brethren and sisters took
their baskets filled with the good things pre-
pared for the occasion, and gave her a surprise.
About forty-five sat down to a sumptuous re-
past.
    Prest. Willmirth East, with several sisters,
came up from Pima, bringing with them a
handsome birthday cake prepared by their own
hands. We had a very pleasant time and all
enjoyed an excellent spirit. After we had par-
take of the good things, we were regaled with
music and singing by Brother Joseph East and
wife, also by Sisters Mary and Pamelia Ran-
som, and Lucinda Gustaveson; recitations by
Prest. W. East; songs by Sisters E. Lay-
ton and Halliday, also Bro. J. Moody; 
reading, the Prophet Joseph's last address to
the Nauvoo Legion, by one of the ladies;
speeches by Prest. and Sister E. Layton, after
which there was music and dancing until
about ten o' clock.			W. EAST.


FROM HYRUM AND OTHER NORTH-
ERN TOWNS.

	HYRUM, Cache Co., Nov. 15, 1884.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few words from this part of the
vineyard would be acceptable, if not very in-
teresting. We are blessed with good health
and pleasant weather, and though our enemies
seem to increase in rage, filling the papers with
falsehoods concerning us, packing juries to con-
vict and imprison those who have not broken
any constitutional law, forming anti-Mormon
leagues, denouncing us unworthy to live, to say
nothing of equal rights; still we are undaunt-
ed, and fear not their threats, for we know in
whom we trust, and feel satisfied that He will
control all things for the good of those who
serve Him. Our position reminds me of the
words of the Apostle Paul: "Those that live
godly in Christ Jesus must suffer persecution."
What else should induce them to persecute and
hate us? There is no people on the earth more
honest, more virtuous and more industrious
than are the Latter-day Saints; and our Arti-
cles of Faith are, without an exception, sus-
tained by the Holy Bible; the very book that


all the civilized world accept as their guide
and standard of salvation.
	Our Primaries in this Stake of Zion are in
good working order. They have emigrated
the fifth child of the Almond family, one with
the last company of Saints, two of the chil-
dren last year, and two the year before. The
children seem to take great pleasure in giving
five or ten cents a year for bringing the little
ones from a laud of poverty to a land of plen-
ty.
	A few weeks ago, by invitation, I accom-
panied our esteemed President, Zina D.
Young, to Malad Valley, she having been invit-
ed by Bishop Stewart to visit the sisters of
that place, where we held several meetings.
We also held meetings at St. Johns, Samaria
and Washakie (Indian settlement); at all of
these gatherings we had an enjoyable time.
Much good instruction was given by Sister
Zina, Bishop Stewart and others, and it seemed
to be a time of feasting to all.
	In witnessing the good influence produced
and the many hearts made glad by the visits of
Sister Zina, the idea is suggested, what a good
work such persons could do traveling and la-
boring among the sisters. We were received
and treated with great kindness by all, and by
none more so than Bro. Jesse Dredge, who met
us at Collinston with a carriage and took us to
the different settlements and returned us to the
depot.
	Our brethren and sisters are doing a good
work among the Lamanites. They have good
day and Sunday schoo s, as well as branches
of the Relief Society and Primary. The good
order observed in these meetings might well be
a pattern to a more enlightened race.
		JANE E. MOLEN.
	Nephi.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	On Friday, November 2lst, the officers of
the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the four wards
of Brigham City held a social at the residence
of Prest. Minnie J. Snow, where a few hours
were spent in a very pleasing and profitable
manner. Addresses, speeches, recitations, vo-
cal and instrumental music was rendered by
the young ladies in a very pleasing and credit-
able manner, displaying skill and good taste,
exhibiting earnest reflection, a realization of
duty and a determination to honor their
positions and sustain the principles of our
faith.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith addressed the assembly
in a very touching and eloquent manner. Spoke
of the peculiar interest she felt in the associa-
tions of Brigham City. Saw and felt intelli-
gence seldom seen elsewhere. Gave advice on
speaking; said not to take up time in offering
apologies, but to cultivate a good and humble
spirit, and then the Lord will bestow the Com-
forter, for the Lord loves the meek and lowly
of heart. Felt the need of the fulness of the
Spirit in our exercises. Advised subjects that
would cause deep reflection; if recitations,
those that are worth storing up in our minds.
Hoped that the spirit manifested in our society
would draw us nearer and nearer together and
be felt in our future meetings; thought book
education was good, but far ahead of that is an
education in the truths of the everlasting Gos-
pel.
	Sister Harriet A. Snow, President of the Re-
lief Society of Box Elder Stake, next addressed
the meeting. Expressed her pleasure in listen-
ing to the wise counsels of Sister Eliza, also
to the resolutions of the young ladies; hoped
they would be carried out, for light and intel-
ligence is what we want to gain, and the more
we cultivate the spirit of unity the greater will
be our power, for now in our youth is the
time to improve, so as to become great and


noble women—never letting anything arise to
dampen our ardor, but being humble and prayer-
ful and persevering in our meetings and in all
good works, and the Lord will bless us.
	Prest. M. J. Snow, after making a few good,
appropriate remarks, ushered the company in-
to her large dining room, where a sumptuous
table was spread with the bounties of life.
which all partook of to their satisfaction, and
a most pleasant, enjoyable time was spent,
which will long be rememberd by those who
participated.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we re-
main,		Respectfully,
		M. J. SNOW, President,
		ANNIE N. BROWNING, Cor. Sec.


R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	WEST HARRISVILLE.
	The Relief Society of West Harrisville, We-
ber Co., was favored with a visit from Sister
Jane S. Richards, Stake President and her
Counselor, II. C. Brown, also Sister Sarah S.
Richards, who advised, encouraged and in-
structed us in a very able manner on the prin-
ciples of the Gospel. Bishop P. G. Taylor
and his Counselor, W. Ransom, also gave us
some very good instructions.
Our prayer is that we may so live that we 
may have the blessing of ouur Heavenly Father 
to help and assist us in carrying on the 
work before us, and obey every commandment 
given. Ever praying for the welfare of the
Exponent.
			CHRISTINA HEGSTED, Sec.
SOUTH COTTINWOOD WARD.
Minutes of the Primaty Meeting of the
South Cottonwood Ward, held in the ward
house, Thursday, Nov. 12th, 1884. Called to
order by President E. M. Davies, at 11 o'clock.
Singing, "In our lovely Deseret." Prayer by
Sister Ann Wheeler. Singing, "Don't kill the
little birds." Roll called, showing an attend-
ance of thirty-five members. Minutes of previ-
ous meeting read and accepted. Next in order 
came the songs and recitations, etc, by the
members of the association, which were very
good. Prest. Davies followed in short remarks,
exhorting the children and thanking them for
their good behavior and for being so punctual
with their part of the programme.
SIster Bathsheba Smith occupied a short 
time; said she was pleased to see so many pres-
ent and such good order; told the children to
be prayerful and keep out of bad company.
The song, "Word of Wisdom," was sung by
members of the association, followed by Bro. T.
A. Wheeler, Sister Mary Rawlins and Sister
Ann Wheeler, after which Sister Davies said
there had been a quilt made by the association
and donated to the Hospital.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 o'clock the next
Saturday. Singing "Joseph Smith's first
prayer." Benediction by Bro. Job Welsh.
ELIZABETH DAVIES, President,
EMILY E. BRINTON, Secretary.


INVESTIGATING MORMONISM.

	The remarkable growth of Mormonism in
Utah and other parts of the United States,
and the efforts made by the ablest statesmen
to check the growth of polygamy, has brought
the Mormon problem so prominently before the
minds that an investigation of the original Mor-
mon Bible manuscript by scientific men will be
had, commencing next Monday. This manu-
script, which is declared to be the translation
of some heiroglyphics inscribed upon metal
plates, whose hiding place in the soil of Ontario
Co., N. Y., had been revealed to Joseph Smith
by an angel of the Lord, is in the possession


of David Whitmer, of Richmond, Mo. Mr.
Whitmer is now quite an aged man, and the
only surviving member of the little band who
assisted Joseph Smith in the founding of the
Mormon Church. He is said to lead an almost
blameless life, and is a firm believer that the
manuscript intrusted to his care is of Divine
origin. Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery and Martin
Harris were the witnesses who testified when
Smith published the Mormon Bible that an
angel of God came down from heaven and
laid before their eyes the plates that bore the
character of which the manuscript is said to be
translated. The investigation is being pushed
by Prof. Clark Braden, formerly President of
Abington College. The judges appointed for
the occasion are Col. J. T. Childs, of the Rich-
mond Conservator; Mr. Ethan Allen, of the
Lexington Observer, and Mr. Harrison, of the
Richmond Democrat. One of the principal
witnesses to appear before the Examining
Board is Maj. J. H. Gilbert, of Palmyra, N. Y.
He is the printer who set the type for the first
Mormon Bible. The points to be considered
are: 1. Is the manuscript in Whitmer's
hands the manuscript Maj. Gilbert used in set-
ting up the Book of Mormon? 2. Is the
manuscript punctuated and capitalized, and to
what extent? 3. Are the errors in grammar
and composition that are in the first edition of
the Book of Mormon found in the manuscript?
4. Has the manuscript been changed since it
left the hands of Oliver Cowdery, and to what
extent and by whom? There have been sever-
al theories advanced by persons who are not
of the Mormon faith as to the origin of this
Bible. The most plausibe one, however, and
the one most generally accepted, is that the
Book of Mormon was written by Rev. Solo-
mon Spaulding, a graduate of Dartmouth Col-
lege, who was in the habit of using his leisure
hours in the compilation of speculative and
historical romance relating to the origin of the
races which were former inhabitants of this
globe. The manuscript of one of these stories
is said to have been stolen by Sidney Rigdon.
After the publication of these scriptures by
Smith an attempt was made by the daughters
of Spaulding to expose the fraud, but success
did not crown their efforts. The original book,
as published by Smith, did not sanction poly-
gamy, but he is said to have received a revela-
tion in 1843 which authorized each "saint" to
take several wives. The examination of the
manuscript will occupy ten days or two weeks,
and the decision of the judges will probably
set at rest any further discussion of the ques-
tion.—Globe Democrat.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	On Monday, November 10th, Mr. Woodall
obtained leave to bring in a Bill for conferring
the Parliamentary franchise on duly qualified
women. The Bill was brought in and read a
first time.—Ex.
	Mrs. Eva Luckes, matron of the London
Hospital, has gathered into a volume her series
of "Lectures on General Nursing," delivered
by her to the probationers of the London Hos-
pital Nurses’ Training School. They embrace,
as might be expected, much instruction, of a
kind particularly adapted to the class to whom
the lecture were addressed. Their range, how-
ever, is very wide; and few who are interested
in the subject can fail to learn something of
practical value at the hands of this competent
instructress.—Ex.
	On October 23rd, Miss Emma Jane Morgan,
Heatherland, Crumwear, Pembrokeshire
(the Sister of Dr. Francis Hoggan) was mar-
ried, in the little village church in which for
nearly half a century her forefathers have
worshipped, to Rev. Thomas Jones. The bride

[Column 2]

was, by her own special request, given away
by her mother, and not, as is customary, by a
male relation. This conservative lady little
knew that her request involved a most radical
innovation, the giving away of the bride by
her father or nearest male relation signifying,
at its origin, the making over to the husband
all the property rights of the bride, the mun-
dium, which was vested by prescriptive right
in the father of the girl, and the buying of
which, by the future husband, furnished a sum
of money, which eventually was appointed as
the dowry of the bride.—Ex.
	Another lady, Mdme. de St. Julien, Superior
of the Filles de la Charite de St. Vincent de
Paul, and Superior or the Military Hospital
of Marseilles, has been raised to this rank.
Mdme. de St. Julien has served in hospitals for
thirty years, and devoted herself to cholera
patients in 1865 and during the recent epidem-
ic. A gold medal has been granted by the 
Government for the same reason to Mine Maig-
non (Soeur Stephanie),who belongs to the same
hospital. There are at present seventeen wo-
men in France who have received the distinc-
tion of the Order of the Legion of Honour, of
whom Mdme. St. Julien is the last. The Order
is mostly given for devotion to the sick and
wounded; Lady Pigott, for instance, besides
several French women, has received the order
as a reward for her services to the wounded in
the Franco-German w r. But the name of
Rosa Bonheur, artiste peintre, is also in the list,
and we are told that Mdme. Abicot was decora-
ted for defending the house of the mdire of
Oison, her husband, against "armed men," and
that Mdme. Regis, who is the first decorated
Frenchwoman, earned her distinction in 1849
for "resisting the mob."—Ex.

	No cloud can overshadow a true christian,
but his faith will discern a rainbow in it.—
Bishop Thorne.
	The three intentions of poetry: Increase of
good, increase of understanding, and increase
of happiness.—Catherall.
	As the mind must govern the hands, so in
society the man of intelligence must direct the
man of labor.—Dr. Johnson.
	Conversation is the daughter of reasoning,
the mother of knowledge, the breath of the
soul, the commerce of hearts, the bond of
friendship, and the nourishment of content.
	"He that hath pity on another man's sorrow
shall be free from it himself; and he that de-
lighteth in and scorneth the misery of another,
shall at one time or another fall into the same
gulf."


OBITUARY.

	It is with a feeling of regret that I write to acquaint
the readers of the EXPONENT of the death of our sister,
Rebecca Jane Hall, who died at Enterprise, Morgan Co.,
November 22nd, 1884, of remittent fever. Deceased was
the mother of seven children, six of whom are living;
the youngest two weeks and four days old.
	She was a member and the Treasurer of the Relief
Society, also Counselor in the Primary Association,
and a useful member of our community.
	She was a faithful wife, a loving mother and a true
friend, and we deeply feel her loss. Though her path-
way has been strewn with thorns she has won the vic-
tory, and has gone to rest. Friends will miss her, but
a bright future is before them at the resurrection morn.
	AMELIA CROFT.


[Column 1]
			DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country prompty responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
For Sale at this Office.
	BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		25c.per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,			$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco.		1.50		"

HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESS[-]S. SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake city are now
							engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund 
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 50[-]					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
				Z.	C.	M.	I.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS  AND  WALL  PAPERS,  ALL 
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.
AT   TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
			in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
		DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and I[-]
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

F Auerbach & Bro
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goo[-]
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

