Vol. 18			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1885.			No. 1885.


[Column 1]
GIVE US JUDGMENT, O LORD!

[LINES, SUGGESTED BY CHRIST’S COUNSEL TO THE LEPER.]

"Wisdom is justified of her children.”—JESUS

Shut off from the world by a fearful disease,
From refinement and friends, from enjoyment and ease;
Lo! a poor loathsome leper, his wretchedness brought
TS the gracious Physician (by multitudes sought)
And implored His compassion, with suppliant mien,
“Lord, I know if thou wilt, that thou canst make me
 clean.” 

And He, who was humble enough "to fulfill
All righteousness,"answered the pleader, " I will."
Oh! blest transformation, miraculous sight!
In an instant the leper was purified quite:
“Made whole ev'ry whit," and by gratitude bound
To publish his cure in the regions around.

But Christ, never eager to add to His fame,
To blazon His deeds, or to trumpet His name,
Strictly cautioned him, “Tell it to no man, but go,
And as Moses commanded, an offering bestow
For thy cleansing, and thus thou a witness shalt be
To the priests of a miracle wrought upon thee."

Was Jesus ashamed of the good He had wrought,
Or cared He so much what the Pharisees thought?
Or was it a crime to bestow strength and health;
A blessing  greater than all the world's wealth?
Wherefore wish a beneficient act to be hidden 
Like something unlawful, unwise and forbidden?

Was Jesus afraid? Can we even suppose
Christ stood for one moment in awe of His foes?
He knew that His Father could instantly send
Countless legions of angles His Son to defend;
But He chose not to ask Him, and taught us,"Tis
well
To avoid much display and to weigh what we tell.

Surrounded by spies, Jesus guarded His speech;
Oft in parables spoke, and endeavored to teach
Truths exalting and deep, in so simple a way,
That the Gospel of goodness the meek might obey,
But with language that glow’d like a torrent of fire,
He silenced the scorners who kindled His ire

Christ reproved their conceit and their covetous ways,
Whoso broaden’d phylacteries courted men's praise:
Who censured in others the tiniest flaw,	
And neglected the weightiest points of the law;
Selfish priests, pompous hypocrites, else had they ne'er
Dared to make a thieve's den of the temple of prayer.

Alas! for a people so blest and so blind,
Who were looking and waiting a monarch to find,
Who thought that their King should have enter’d in
	state,
And shown Himself truly Messiah the Great!
"He came to His own," but they scorn'd to endure
The presence and precepts of one so obscure.

With proof upon proff of an era divine,
The Pharisees tauntingly call'd for a sign;
Blam’d Beelzebub, even, for all that Christ done,
And counted Him only “the carpenter,s son"
Yet with all, Jesus stem’d envy’s turbulent tide
From the hour of his birth to the day that He died.

The pious elite, the select “uppcr ten,"
Look’d down from their height on the Savior of men; 
But their jealousy sensed and it nourished their spleen,
That a wonderful man was the strange Nazarene;
Still they questioned, while hating him all, that they
	could,
“Can there comdont of Nazareth ought that is good?”

“The Kingdom of Heaven comes without observation.”
A Christ couldn't please a perverse generation,
Or force them to welcome the dawning of light,
Whose deeds were all evil, befitting the night;
“If a prophet had risen, indeed, from the dead
Such a people would ne'er have believed what he said."
[Column 2]
And wherefore should Jesus from bondage redeem
Such an Israel, and crown them with glory supreme?
Why wrest from the Romans, a bigoted brood,
Or exalt the self-righteous who thirsted for blood?
Not for this came the Christ, at so fearful a cost,
But to seek and to ransom the humble and lost.

Oh! merciful Christ; for humanity's sade-
If no reputation Thyself didst Thou make,
Or seek for applause, or a recompense ask,
So holy Thy alms and so hard was Thy task
The highest on earth, yea, a God in disguise: 
“Prince of Peace" Thou wert humble, and patent and 
	wise.

Lord! we fain would remember Thine own it behooves
To “be wise e'en as serpents, and harmless as doves.”
Though 'tis needful to suffer for righteousness' sake,
May we needlessly never an enemy make;
Give us judgment, O Lord! make us wise as obedient, 
For prudence is power and 'tis often expedient.
					EMILY H. WOOD MANSEE.
S. L. City.


EPISODE 1.
THE GIRL—HER SERlOUS MEDITATION ON
	HER APPROACHING BIRTHDAY.

	This is the last Wednesday I shall ever see,
in my fifteenth year! Four days more will
make me sixteen! How swift time flies! Twelve
months have rolled round since I last saw this
day, and it seems, as it, were, but yesterday;
every day, nay, every hour and minute brings
us nearer to our latter end.  A few years more,
and I shall have passed the meridian of life; 
every appearance of youth will then be for-
ever fled, if it should please heaven to spare
me to that time. There is something very
solemn,to me,in seeing or doing a thing for the
last time! I shall never see this day again, but as
I grow in years, and The cares arid troubles of
this life come upon me, may heaven grant that
I may grow in grace; may I be enabled to do
my duty in every station of life in which it
shall please God to place me; may I do my duty
to my dear father and mother, and also to him
who seems destined as the companion of my
life. If voluntarily and deliberately I choose
to make him such,I am bound by the strongest
ties do fulfill so sacred am engagement; may
God in His infinite mercy assist me in this
most essential part of my duty. In adversity
and affliction may I look up to my Heavenly
Father for comfort and support; and in pros-
perity may I never forget my duty. To be
virtuous is my heart’s desire. "May God, who
knows my heart, grant that I may be so; may
I be willing and even desirous to leave this
 world when God, in His infinite goodness,
 shall see fit to call me, may I be prepared to
quit this world, that I may meet death with-
out fear or amazement; may I be admitted in-
to that heavenly kingdom, where only the vir-
tuous can be admitted, there to dwell forever
in blest eternity. Make me, O Lord, to know
Thy will, and guard me from the road to ill.
Teach me Thy ways, and grant that I may 
never on myself rely, nor think my wisdom
will suffice to guard me through this world of
vice. No, let me ever, ever pray for Thy pro-
 tection night and day.


EPISODE 2.
THE WOMAN REVIEWS AND JUDGES THE GIRL.

Girl I bless thee! as I gaze upon the features 
which thy miniature presents to me the fifteen

﻿
summers had revolved above thee; I feel to
draw a pen picture of thy early days, for sure-
ly they were not the days of common child-
hood; thy spirit was born mirthful, playful,
gay, yet thoughtful, pensive often sad, the ef-
fect of organization and temperament; over thy
early youth hung a dark cloud, arising from a
too precocious mind, that fed too much upon
its own vitality, and in a too secluded life; none
knew those mental trials—you trembled lest
any one should discover them; they were entire-
ly between thyself and thy Father, God. How
often hast thou risen in the silent watches of
the night to pray that the dark cloud might be
lifted off thy soul, that faith and hope and the
light of heaven might beam upon thee. Strange
a very child should be so tried, and all so Silent-
ly; that life, present and future, should appear
a blank! She felt happiness was not for her,
yet how she yearned for that which she felt to
be her native element, and feeling herself so
capable of enjoying it, but she decided in her
childish code that she would strive to be good,
and would do her best; that she might have
peace. Strange decision for a girl with just her
thirteen years.
	Never ceasing time rolled on. Months, years
passed; Womanhood,Wifehood,Motherhood,yet
through all brooded still that dark and heavy
shadow. Prayers seemed of no avail, yet still
she never ceased to pray, but with a differ-
ence.
	Years rolled on, and then silently, almost
impreceptibly, this cloud was gradually lifted,
and silently, almost impreceptibly, peace and
happiness grew upon her; the morbid feelings
seemed to evaporate,and she realized an exceed-
ing great reward was given to her, and then
the knowledge came that the hand of God
had been upon her for good, that He
held her firmly, but yet gently and lov-
ingly, giving her strength to decide as did
holy Job, ‘’Though He slay me, yet will
I put my trust in Him.” The woman, in
this her hour of judgment, asks herself, “Has
the mature life done justice to the girl? Again
she looks upon the silent miniature and solilo-
quizes: Girl, I bless thee! The woman blesses
thees gazing on thy painted image with its
fifteen summers now before her. 

She feels almost thou art her peer, 
She feels below the promise of her youth; 
Forty long years, and great experience,
She can in judgment sit upon her youthful type,
Call in the witnesses and justly weigh
The being now beneath her scrutiny;
And memory rises up and shows how 
Good, and pure, and honorable thou wert,
With just thy fifteen summers o’er thy head
No craven In thy soul wert thou, 
But high horn in thy heart and Brain;
And though so long beneath that heavy cloud,
And though thy prayers appear’d as though unheard,
Through all the scenes that should be sunny youth,
	Thy soul still served by waiting for thy Lord;
And looking back at this late period
The woman knows fall well that God was there,
Preparing thee in His high school for that
Momentous time when He would call, and thou
In meekness should respond, Father, “lo, I come”
To be enrolled with Saints of Latter-days,
And be a member in the First born's Church.

	May the child be mother to the woman
	 March 16 1885.			JUSTITIA..


Queen Victoria expected to leave Windsor
for Germany on the 30th of last month and
remain on the continent three weeks.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 

(Continued.)

	My husband wrote:  "Saturday, 26th. This
being mother's birthday, father this afternoon
procured his large glass, which has been in the
family for years, and each one of the family
was called upon to give some sentiment or wish
in favor of our mother.  The "union" or meet-
ing did not last above an hour, but it was the
most satisfactory festival that I ever recollect
to have spent in that brief space of time."
	The circumstance above mentioned is very
fresh in my memory, as is also the following, 
which transpired on the evening of January
1st, 1847:
	"This evening Bro. Kimball again gave up
his room for the purpose of dancing.  Brigham
and some of his family were present, beside a
numerous assemblage of brethren and sisters. 
This evening, like the Christmas one, passed off
finely under the direction of O. P. Rockwell, 
and every one departed to their homes about
one a.m., apparently well pleased and gratified
with our scene of festivity."
	Sunday the 3rd.  By invitation my father
went and preached at Bro. John Scott's house, 
in Bishop Evan's ward, a number of his family
attending. 
	On the 5th Horace, Wm. and Porter started
on horse-back for the rush bottoms, in com-
pany with three other brethren who were going
with wagons to Bro. Lathrop's camp (who was
there to take charge of the cattle that were sent
to the rush bottoms) with provisions.  Our
boys went for the purpose of driving back some
beef cattle - cows and calves, etc., but the weath-
er was so excessively cold that they conclud-
ed to return without them.  
	Horace says: "The only house there, we
stayed in, which was a miserable hovel indeed, 
our bones the next morning feeling the effects
of the unevenness of the puncheon floor. *
Having breakfasted as we had supped the
night before, in the open air, we started for
home, where we arrived towards evening."
	By this time there was considerable snow on
the ground, and "Thursday, 7th,' wrote Horace, 
"was by far the coldest and most snow of the
season.  We could chop wood at the door
scarcely five minutes without freezing."
	He wrote on the 13th, "This evening had
quite a convivial party at Bro. James
Smithies', consisting of all the male members
of the family."- Meaning my father's family. 
	Monday, the 18th, he speaks of making out
a "list of the members intending to travel in
the 2nd company, under H. C. Kimball, in the
ensuing spring.  John Pack and myself went
round to warn them to meet at the Council
House to-morrow night for organization.  The
first company, under Brigham Young, meet
there this evening for the same purpose, This
evening a fire was discovered under the hearth
in Bro. Kimball's room - we took down the
better half of the chimney in order to get at
the fire, which we  put out and then rebuilt the
chimney, this taking till half past four in the
morning.  Brother Kimball felt very thankful
that the fire did not occur in the night when
we were all asleep, as there were five or six
pounds of powder in a chest near the fireplace, 
in addition to the danger incurred by the fire
otherwise. 
	"Thursday, 19th. * * This even-
ing, pursuant to agreement, a large number of
those who had attached themselves to the sec-
ond company under H. C. Kimball, met at the
Council House on Main St. Bro. O. Pratt
first rose and read the names of those who had
already given in their names, which were 200
in number.  Bro. Kimball then arose and said
that he had not called them together exactly

[Column 2]
for the purpose of organization, but to give
them some instruction, and to let them know
by what rules they must abide if they wished
to go in his company.  He then proceeded to
state that those who wished to go with him
must prepare themselves to obey the laws of
God, and forbear from stealing one from an-
other, also swearing and other things prohibited
by the Celestial Law, and those who could not
make up their minds to abide by the precepts, 
had better never start from this place, but go
into Missouri where they belong. 
	"A revelation on the will of the Lord was
then read by O. Pratt, as received through
Prest. Young, pertaining to the rules and reg-
ulations by which we are to be governed during
our journey in the ensuing spring.  There are
to be companies of tens, fifties and hundreds, 
each company with a captain at its head, and
these to be controlled by a president and two 
counselors. 
	"The revelation embodied or contained the
remarks made by Bro. Kimball and the others.  
A vote was then called whether the people
would covenant to obey the precepts therein
laid down, which passed unanimously.  Prest. 
Young also made some few remarks substan-
tiating what Bro. Kimball had said.  Another
thing spoken of was that every individual who
went on the journey should to the utmost use
his influence in assisting the widows and wives
of those in the army, also to remove, lest their
cries should ascend up to Jehovah against us. 
After some other business of minor importance
being transacted the meeting was dismissed
with a benediction by Bro. Kimball."
	"Wednesday, the 20th.  Fair weather with
"sunshine clear."  The Twelve held a council
at Wm. Kimball's room to-day."  Thursday
he speaks of being busied in taking the names
and list of the property of those who had at-
tached themselves to Bro. Kimball's company."
And for two or three days after he was en-
gaged "writing on the list of company 2nd."
On the 23rd he makes mention of his wife's
sickness, which prevented him from attending
meeting at the Council House.


LETTER FROM A GENTILE.

MRS. WELLS:
     I take several papers, but none that I read
with more interest than the EXPONENT. I am
watching with great interest your people strug-
gling for existence, surrounded by enemies as
they are, and what the result will be I cannot
yet tell; but my opinion is that riches and self-
ishness will be the greatest enemies your peo-
ple will have to contend with. This was the
great moral disease that Jesus Christ found in
the world and prescribed for; and so long as
your people follow His directions closely and
attentively they will live and grow and prosper;
but when riches, pride and selfishness grow up
among you, then you will have only a form of
godliness without its power, as the religious
orders of this country, and the spirit of the
world in all of them and the spirit of Christ
not found in them.
     Your system of plural marriage I regard as
one of the great and God-given remedies for
the evils of the world, and to elevate woman
to her proper sphere, and give her a chance to
love and be loved by some good and worthy
man; the sum total of life's pleasures, the fruit
of existence, the great natural balm for the
troubles of life. No great revolution was ever
accomplished in the world without great effort
and opposition from the ignorance and preju-
dice of the world.
    Fight along, you are right, and I glory in
the spirit manifested by the people. If this
should be of any interest to your readers you
are at liberty to give it to them. 
					JOHN M. RUSSEL.


Y. L. M. I. A. ANNUAL MEETING.

     An annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward was held at the residence of
Sister Julia Howe, Friday, Feb. 20th, 1885.
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, E. S. Taylor, Nellie
Colebrook, H. T. King and other visitors were
present. The President of the Association,
Sister Julia Howe, presided over the meeting.
After the usual opening exercises were over an
interesting report for the year ending Feb. 20,
1885, was ready by the secretary. A short and
varied programme was then rendered, which
was listened to with interest.
     Sister Howe stated the object of the meet-
ing, which was the election of officers, at the
same time tendering her resignation as Prest.
of the association. This resignation was not
accepted.
     A motion was then made and put to the
members of the effect that Sister Howe be re-
tained as President of the Association. The
motion was unanimously carried by the uplift-
ed hands and smiling faces of the members,
showing that their hearts went with their votes.
The other officers also remaining the same, the
association now stands with Sister Julia Howe
as President, Sisters Emily Richards and Sadie
Howe as Counselors, Ella Dallas as Secretary,
Vickie Clayton as Assistant Secretary and
Lizzie Barnes as Treasurer and Librarian.
      The meeting was then addressed by the visit-
ors, and much good advice, instruction and
encouragement was imparted to the members
and to all who listened.
    Sister Eliza gladdened the hearts of all by
her presence and with the words of counsel
which she gave, commending all that was
praiseworthy, and giving suggestions, in her
characteristic way, on points where the Associa-
tion was deficient. She particularly stated
that she had yet to be converted to the idea of
annual reorganizations. Stated that she had
also to be converted to the idea of adjourning
the Associations during the summer season;
thought that where these plans were adopted 
they would prove a great drawback to the As-
sociation.
     All felt to ask God to bless Sister Eliza and
grant every desire of her heart. All the
speakers felt to congratulate Sister Howe for
the love and esteem in which she is held by the
young people with whom she is associated.
    One item that was broached by a number of
the speakers, and that should be particularly
mentioned, and that is, that we should not
patronize our enemies in any way. This was
afterwards put before the meeting in the form
of a resolve, and was unanimously adopted.
     After the closing exercises the company ad-
journed to the dining room, where a bounteous
repast was spread, of which all partook with
enjoyment; the many good things, with which
the tables were laden, being well seasoned with
pleasant conversation.
     The evening was spent in social chat and in-
terchange of thought. All passed off well,
and everybody went home feeling in good
spirits and benefited by partaking of the good
things, spiritual and temporal, that were freely
given to them. All felt to say that it is good
to mingle where all are of one heart and on
spirit.
ELLA DALLAS, Secretary.


Emily Pfeiffer of London, who visited Salt
Lake City with her husband last October, has,
in the March number of the Contemporary
Review, an article upon Woman Suffrage, said
to be an exceedingly able argument in its favor.
The lady is a very graceful and popular writer,
and her articles in prose and poetry are very
highly complimented by members of Parlia-
ment. She was a friend of the late George
Elliot and of George Henry Lewis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PARAPHRASE OF THE TWENTY-
		THIRD PSALM.

	FOR THE PRIMARIES.
My Lord!  my glorious Shepherd--King!
	My wants He doth supply--
In pastures green He laid me down,
	Where gentle streams ran by.

He bindeth up my wounded soul,
	He guides my wandering feet,
In paths of righteousness He leads
	To happiness complete.

Yea, though death's shadow oft has bowed
My shrinking soul to ill,
Into his valley dark and drear,
Yet Oh! no evil will I fear,
For thou art with me still;
Thy rod I hold, Thy staff I grasp,
And they shall comfort me.

A table in the wilderness
	For me has oft been spread,
Where I, with loving guests, have sat,
	And all been richly fed.

Yes, truly this has often been
	In presence of my foes--
My head Thou hast anointed, too,
	My cup--it overflows! 

Surely Thy goodness and Thy love
	Shall tend me all my days,
And in the house of God I'll dwell
	With everlasting praise.
					HANNAH T. KING.
	March 25th, 1885.


AN ADDRESS TO THE LADIES'
		 CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
	There are so many at the present time that
take an interest in Utah. So much has been
written and said  about us as a people, it almost
seems superflous to write or say any thing more;
in fact we are become as a city set on a hill
that cannot be hid; and we can, no longer be
called the isolated Mormons.  And if those
who make it their business to write and talk
about us would only do so with a spirit devoid
of prejudice and a desire to investigate our
principles and speak of them truthfully, we
would court such investigation and they would
know us better as a people, for our desire is to
let our light so shine before men that they, see-
ing our good works, may cease to traduce, and
perchance find something that even the would-
be-reformers of the age may consider worthy
of praise and imitation.
	But instead of an impartial investigation of
our principles, we are continually maligned
and misrepresented, and our rights are taken
from us.  At one time the cry is, the poor, de-
luded, suffering women of Utah; let us set them
free and they will gladly leave husband, broth-
er and father and come to us, no matter how
steeped in vice we may be; no matter if we are
drunkards or gamblers or how impure our lives;
they are ready to break asunder every tie that
binds them and come to us, if they can only es-
cape from the thraldom which binds them to
their oppressors.
	Civilization came into our midst and women
have plenty of opportunities to leave the ranks
of Mormonism and embrace the Sectarian re-
ligionsof the day; but unfortunately for this
grand scheme the women of the Church of
Latter-day Saints are, for the most part, pretty
well informed as to the merits of the different
religions of the day, for have they not, many
of them, come from their midst, and they are
well acquainted with the workings of the sys-
tems of so-called Christianity.
	They were also given the right of the ballot,
which they knew how to use for their own best
interests.  And so the cry is changed, and in
place of the sympathy there seemed to be a
disposition on the part of our Christian friends
to persecute and to even incarcerate them in
prison for being faithful to their covenants,
their husbands and their God.  Call the present
state of things by what name you will, it is
nothing more nor less than a religious persecu-
tion.  Christian ladies’ associations are formed
that fan the flames of intolerance and persecu-
tion, and raise the hue and cry against the
dreadful state of things said to exist among
the hated Mormons, when their greatest crime
consists in seeking to obey the commandments
of God and striving to raise the human race
from the pit of infamy and degradation into
which so many of them have fallen.  Surely
there is work enough for all philanthropists,
and for all the Christian Ladies' Associations,
and for all those ministers who profess to be
the followers of Him who went about doing
good; who condemned not, but said, “Let him
who is without sin among you cast the first
stone."  Yes, you may safely leave the women
of Utah in peace to raise their children in the
paths of honesty and virtue, and betake your-
selves where you are needed—to the haunts of
vice and misery in the great cities of the east,
where thousands suffer and die every year in
the lowest depths of misery and woe, with no
kind hand or voice near to lift them up or
smooth their dark passage to that bourne from
whence no traveler returns. Where innocent
children are continually destroyed to cover
the shame of the authors of their being, or
perhaps to escape the responsibility of matern-
ity other means are resorted to which are a dis-
grace to this Christian land.
	Now, in no way is the downfall of a nation
brought about so quickly as in this, and little
children are forsaken and thrust out into the
cold world, and often have no place to lay
their heads, until they become so familiar with
crime that they are fit subjects for the reform
school or the felon’s cell.  Yes, seek them out;
save the little children from a life of degrada-
tion and sin.  And if any of the fallen Magda-
lenes of society should desire to return to the
paths of virtue, do not pass them by and say,I
am more righteous than thou; but lend them
a helping hand and teach them a better way.
Then will you indeed perform a good work,
and the blessing of them that were ready to
perish will come upon you, and: when you shall
stand before the judge of all the earth these
things will be remembered, for He has said
He will judge every man according to his
works.
	We, the women of Utah, wish to be a band
of reformers.  We set our faces against the de-
moralizing and degrading vices of the age, in
whatever form the hideous monster may raise
his hydra head, whether it be in the gilded
palaces of pleasure of the rich and great where
o hides his frightful mien under silken cur-
tains and garlands of flowers, or whether it be
in the habitations of the lowly where he sets
his snares to betray the innocent and the con-
fiding.  And vice is dressed in its softest and
most insidious garb, and too often takes advan-
tage of the best affection of his victims to over-
come their virtue and lead them to their de-
struction; and when she learns too late the na-
ture of the monster she has cherished in her
bosom, the unfortunate victim is often led to
commit other crimes.  And alas!  she is fallen
indeed.  Shall we follow her in her
downward path and trace her step by step un-
til she reaches the last depths of misery and
sin?
	Oh, we would not willingly know any of
these things.  We would rather close our eyes
and shut out the dreadful sight; but our duty
compels us to raise our voices that the blood of
this generation be not required at our hands.
To save the fallen, to comfort the afflicted, to
teach the erring the way of life and salvation,
is the peculiar work of the women of the
Church of Latter-day Saints.  Therefore be-
ware how you fight against this thing called
Mormonism, lest you should be found fighting
against God.
					PHEBE C. YOUNG.


SHORTHAND
	To me it is rather suprising that more ladies
do not admire short hand sufficiently to make
it a study; it is much more easily acquired than
music, and with very little expense.  I took
seventeen lessons, after which I could under-
stand any printed instruction on the subject.
	The system I am learning is Isaac Pitman’s.
It is a pleasant study, and when once acquired
would aid in acquiring others, especially those
taught by lectures, while so much depends on
memory it invariably strengthens that organ.
	The objections to it made by persons who do
not have much copying to do, is, that they
write, so little they would forget it; although
practice is indispensable to gain speed in writ-
ing, a knowledge of it can be retained by
reading books printed in short hand.  Those
in the reporting and corresponding styles are
both interesting and instructive;  some of them
contain foot notes in common print, which the
beginner will find useful.  Mr. Pitman’s week-
ly publications, The Phonetic journal, also
contain some pages in short hand.
After learning the Alphabet, by reading
alone, I learned to write fifty-eight words a
minute. At last the only opportunity I had
or practice was once a month at the Relief So-
ciety meeting; at first I could only insert easy
words, such as the, and, to, etc. but for some
time, though with no other practice, I have
taken down in short hand all I wrote, which
was about one third that was said.  This, no
doubt, seems but little to one that never
tried it.
	Many give up the study when about half
through the most discouraging part. I con-
sider it is a fine accomplishment, even if we
never quite reach the coveted end, verbatim
reporting, and may be acquired with a little
perseverance; an hour devoted to it each day
will soon unfold pleasing results.
	It is also claimed that it induces studious
habits, and has a tendency to improve composi-
tion and penmanship; of the latter art it;may
be considered a branch. While professional
excellence as either penman, reporter or author
is a goal almost too dazzling to think about, it
is probably within, the possibilities for even or-
dinary mortals to acquire one or more of these
arts by home study, after reasonable applica-
tion, and the time devoted to it would scarcely
be missed.
						ANNIE FELLOWS.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Jean Ingelow's new volume of Poems
is about to be published by Roberts Brothers,
Boston, Mass.  Her first volume appeared
eighteen years ago.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall and Miss Susan B.
Anthony spoke before the Waman's Club in
New Orleans on Monday, March 9th.  Mrs.
Sewall's subject was the home, and Miss An-
thony's was woman suffrage.
	Women vastly outnumber men everywhere
in Massachusetts except in her prisons.  On
the first day of October there were 4,389 con-
victs in that State, of whom 3,586 were men.
The "superfluous" women of the old Bay State
pay their proportion of taxes to convict and
punish this large number of criminals who are
their political superiors, and year after year
their prayer for equality in political matters is
denied by legislators whom the criminal class,
before their incarceration and after their dis-
charge help to choose. - Evening Telegram


164	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		
	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1885.


[Column 1]
	FASHION, FOLLY, WISDOM.

	I am more than pleased at the action that has
of late been taken by the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Associations throughout Zion to
discountenance the spending of money with
those that are not of us; even for the necessary
articles of clothing, but more especially the dis-
pensing with those articles that may be classed
among the useless; commonly termed gewgaws,
but yet are extensively indulged in as a sort of
vanity.
	The Lord has been pleased to reveal Himself
upon every matter that pertains to cur conduct
upon the earth; He has taught us not only in
relation to that which we should eat and drink,
but has spoken very definitely in regard to our
dress. Here is His language: "Thou shalt not
be proud in thy heart; let thy garments be plain
and their beauty the beauty of the work of
thine own hands." While I would be sorry to
suggest anything that should in the least tend
to destroy in my sisters the love of the beauti-
ful, or that inclination to the legitimate adorn-
ment of the body, which I view to be a gift from
God, yet would I warn the daughters of Zion
against imitating the fashions and follies of a
corrupt world, whose style of dress, and the or-
namentation accompanying the same, do not
originate with the chaste and pure of woman-
kind, but are furnished by men who are paid
fabulous sums of money to invent styles and
fashions that pander to the most vitiated tastes
and wanton desires. Fashions that grati'y vain
and wicked ambitions to-day, and after accom-
plishing their purpose are speedily cast aside to
by replaced by others that have their origin from
the same source.
	The Lord has told us that He is not pleased
with the world nor their practices. He told
Joseph Smith to leave their religion alone, for it
was all wrong. In short, there is hardly a
practice of Babylon to day, but when criticised
and scanned by the light of revelation, would
reveal a wrong somewhere; even those practices
that pertain to the higher walks of life that are
by them considered perfect. We have been told
to "come out of her." What for? "That ye be
not partakers of her sins," etc. Was it our bodies
merely that we were to bring out of Babylon,
and yet retain her customs, her habits and her
practices? I think it meant an entire withdraw-
al, a complete separation. I find among the
many lamantations that will be heard concern-
ing her, when she shall be destroyed, the fol-
lowing: "Her that was clothed in fine linen and
purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and
precious stones and pearls, for in one hour she
is come to naught." Then the command is
given, "Rejoice over her thou heaven, and ye
holy apostles and prophets, for God hath
avenged you on her; for in her was found the
blood of prophets and of Saints, and of all that
were slain upon the earth."

[Column 2]
	Now, tell me there is nothing that per-
tains to Babylon that is worthy of salvation, but
all must be destroyed? Can there possibly be
anything in her that is worthy of imitation by
that people whom God has expressly command-
ed to "come out of her?" On the contrary
wherever Babylon is found to exist in any one
particular there is danger of "plagues," for God
has sworn to destroy her, and that, too, so utter-
ly, that "no place shall be found for her."
	Isaiah had a view of the daughters of Zion in
a day when the poor should be neglected, while
they themselves would be "haughty and walk
with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes."
A day when the Lord should smite them and
"shall take away their changeable suits of ap-
parel, the fine linen, the hoods and the veil,
the bonnets, mufflers, chains, bracelets," as well
as every other article of ornamentation, and
leave them girded in sackcloth. Remember
these were the daughters of Zion who were to
be thus treated. And why? "Because the
daughters of Zion were haughty," etc.
	The tendency to a departure from correct
principles and practices that God has revealed,
involving as it does the most serious consequen-
ces, is deeply to be regretted, and yet it is not
surprising when we consider the temptations
and allurements that surrond us to day. But
are we not responsible in a great degree for the
existence of these things in our midst? Have
we not invited them hither? Have we not
brought them to our very doors, and given them
a place at our firesides? Have we not nourished
and sustained their being until they have grown
strong and powerful, and almost dare us to dis-
place them? Have not our youthful daughters,
in too many instaces, been permitted—nay,
even taught by us to sacrifice, at the shrine of
vanity and foolish fashion, and have they not
learned their lessons so well that they really ex-
cel in these Babylonish accomplishments, tastes
and desires?
	The prudent and thoughtful among us cannot
help but have very serious misgivings in view
of future consequences, for it is a fact that to
the extent that we depart from correct princi-
ples, so are we proportionately in danger.
	God has multiplied blessings upon his people
in these mountains, until they have become
wealthy, and there are not wanting those who
desire to possess themselves of it, and who are
more than ready to bring to us all that is pleas-
ing to the eye and gratifying to the taste, nor do
they stop here, but they also spend much
time and labor in trying to cultivate and im-
prove our taste; but with just the one object in
view, viz., to secure a ready sale for the "latest
fashions;" goods that they have brought at great
expense—especially for our use. Thus the
"lovely dress," the "handsome mantilla," the
"superb cloak," the "charming bonnet," the
"exquisitely fitting shoe," with the very neces-
sary accompaniments of chain, bracelet, breast-
pin, earring, etc., etc., adorn our bodies and
gratify our vanity, and for the time being we
are satisfied. But question, were they not pro-
duced in Babylon—material, labor, everything?
Oh, yes, but "aint they lovely?" But the Lord
says that "our garments should be plain, and
their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own
hands." Oh, that is all very well for religious
people, but then, you know I was never very re-
ligious, and these things are here nd I don't see
why we should not enjoy them; besides they are
much more fashionable, and a great deal cheaper
than anything that could be made here, conse-
quently it is a saving, as well, don't you see?
Thus do we justify ourselves one to another; but
are we justified of God? I answer no, we are
not, for there is not one word contained in the re-
velations of God to His people, written or spoken,
whether it be by way of command, or counsel

[Column 3]of wisdom that we are justified in ignoring, and
before we can be acceptable to our Father we
will be found observing all that He has com-
manded us.
	I have written thus plainly to show my si[-]
ters the magnitude of the work that lies before
them. It will require much faith, much pa-
tience and much prayer, as well as considerable
time to correct these evils that have been pre-
sented, as well as many others that might be
named, for have they not permeated our [-]ntire
society? Showing themselves generally in pro-
portion to our ability to gratify these vitiated
tastes and desires. Nor do we stop here. Some
venture beyond their means, while a few plunge
hopelessly into debt rather than be outdone by
their near acquantices and friends. Thus
may be traced evil after evil growing out of a
desire to do that that the Lord has forbidden;
for we cannot wander in any degree from the
path that He has marked out, and continue so
to do, but other evils will be the result.
	The sustaining of our enemies by our continu-
ous patronage is a wrong so apparent that it
needs no comment; but in view of the tempta-
tions to which we are liable, because of our past
practices, we will have to closely guard ourselves,
and in many instances we will be compelled to
forces ourselves to make the sacrifice. Let us
then, hereafter, not dwell so much upon what
is past, nor elaborate upon the wrongs that have
been, but straightway teach ourselves, and then
teach others correct principles in regard to our
future conduct, and thus step out from the th[-]al-
dom and bondage we find ourselves in to our
enemies—enemies that we have created through
our liberal patronage in gratifying our foolish
vanity.
	Our daughters must be taught these lessons of
wisdom and understadning in regard to their
physical being, as well as the lessons that per-
tain to domestic life, so strongly that when they
marry they are prepared to enter upon the du-
ties of wifehood, and exhibit that vitality of
body, as well as that industry, thrift and econo-
my so necessary to make home happy. Such a
woman will also assume the cares of maternity
with a grace that will stamp her as one that it
in every way worthy, not only to fill the posi-
tion of wife, but that of mother also. 
	Will not the mother who gave broth to such a
daughter be justified in being proud of her?
While her husband (perhaps unconsciously to
himself) will feel the bonds of their union be-
coming stronger as time shall more fully develop
that true womanhood of which she is so fully
possessed. In connection with this there must
also exist that love of God and for the principle
of His holy Gospel, that shall form around her a
bulwark of such strength that in the day of
sore trial and affliction she will stand un-
moved. 
	Let such a foundation be firmly laid in our
daughters; we shall them see exhibited by them
such a strength of character that will be all pow-
erful to resist those encroachments that have
made so very necessary the employment of the
reforming agencies that are now being used to
correct these existing evils.
	Let the daughters of Zion, as well as the sons
of Zion, cease entirely to sustain our enemies;
let them labor from this time forth to build up
Zion in the way that God has appointed; let
them sustain one another, foster the industries
that are already established in our midst, and
make it possible for others to be created; that the
elements around us may be utilized, and made
to produce all that we want to eat, drink and
to wear. Let us leave Babylon, with her follies
and sins, entirely alone, for in this way only
shall we escape her plagues. In proportion as
we do this so will we obtain power over our ene-


mies, and be left free to establish the Kingdom
of God upon the earth.
						J. E. TAYLOR.
Dixie, March 11,1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Conference of the Church will
be held this year in Logan, instead of Salt Lake
City. This is the second time only that the
General Conference has not convened here.
The other instance was in St. George in April
1877.
	THE article on Fashion, Folly, Wisdom, occu-
pies the editorial columns in this issue. These
are very important matters, and the subjects
are forcibly handled. No one can read it with-
out realizing the truths it conveys, and especial-
ly should the daughters of Zion and mothers in
Israel take heed to the wise counsel herein
given.
	SEVERAL articles which have been received,
are laid over for the next issue. Reports of
conferences from Ogden, St. George and Snow-
flake; also Correspondence and an article from
the pen of E H. B., and A Reign of Peace, by
M. E. Kimball, all acceptable and will appear in
good time.
	THE decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States in the cases of Mary Ann Pratt
and Mildred Randall, determined some points 
that the Commissioners had previously decided
against in their own way; and thus it will be
seen that the votes of many widows, citizens in
their own right, cannot be challenged, and their
names may be registered when the time sh ll
come round for registration again. These ladies
should avail themselves of the privilege, and we
trust will consider it a duty, and not lose the op-
portunity now open to them to exercise the
gift of franchise.
	WE had the pleasure, in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor, of visiting the Young Ladies' As-
sociation in the Sixteenth Ward. Miss Emma
Finch, the President, seems in every respect a 
capable and efficient person for such a responsi-
ble position. We were gratified to hear one of
the young ladies offer the first prayer. Judging
from appearances the Association seems to be
in a good condition, and to have a good attend-
ance of intelligent young girls. After the pro-
gramme had been rendered, Miss Finch made
some very apt and timely remarks, and was
followed by the visiting sisters. Bishop Kesler
pronounced the benediction.


AN INTERESTING BOOK.

	Jos. H. Parry & Co. have just published the
third edition of "History and Philosophy of
Marriage, or Polygamy and Monogamy Com-
pared." The book is from the pen of a "Chris-
tian Philanthropist," who, having been strictly
brought up in New England, resided for many
years abroad in foreign countries, and had the
best opportunities of seeing and comprehending
the subjects and practices of which he has so
ably written.
	The careful reading of this book cannot offend
the most delicate or sensitive student of human
nature, or enquirers into the laws of cause and
effect. It is a work of 274 pages, and is written
in a purely conscientious and high, moral tone.
The late publishers have had the copyright
transferred to them, and have issued an edition
of five hundred. At the present time it should
be in every household of the Saints, that they
may have the opinions and testimony of men of
the highest intelligence in this enlighteded
nineteenth century for reference upon a princi-
ple which now involves so much, in the presen


crusade against the people called "Mormons"
	The book contains many historical and philo-
sophical facts with which every individual, who
is interested in the search of truth, should be in
possession and familiar with; that one may
reason intelligently upon vital subjects it is
necessary to be well armed with powerful argu-
ments, facts and figures. Every library should
contain one of these books. Price, $1, for sale
at Jos. Hyrum Parry's book store, Main Street,
opposite Z. C. M. I.


[Column 1]

PRESIDENT CLEVELAND'S INAUGU-
RAL ADDRESS.

 	I must say, for one, that I was pleased and
gratified with President Cleveland's Inaugural
Address (with only one exception. This I can
well understand, having looked upon the sub-
ject in the same way myself at one time), and
expecially the reverence he manifests to his pa-
rent, and also to the sacred volume upon which
he took his oath of office. I always feel to honor
and respect a person who will be controlled by
the rules given in that sacred volume. I feel a
confidence, if they are governed by those laws,
they will make righteous rulers. This book
tells us "When the wicked rule the people
mourn."
	My sincers desire is, that not only President
Cleveland, but also the Senate and Representa-
tives of Congress, will heed and seek the spirit
of inspiration, by which the Bible was written.
Too many throw it aside as a mass of contra-
dictions, because they have no other spirit but
that of the world to read it by. Those who ig-
nore the one will most assuredly deny the other,
because they pride themselves so much in the
powers of mind which they possess, and forget
the kind Providence who endowed them with
this power, and who will call them home shortly
to give an account of how they spent their time
in this school, or probation, as one may choose
to call it. Do they believe all the wicked will
be turned into hell, or make one with all the na-
tions who forget God?
	In reading the History of Benjamin Franklin,
we learn that he recommends prayer to God,
who will assist to settle all questions more per-
fectly. Such men are wise Senators, because
God rules our destinies. But you ask, is not
Congress pursuing the same course, and are we
not serving God when we crush plural marriage
out of the land? Well, I will answer: Plural
marriage has been a severe test in proving who
is a Saint and who is not; and you know the
Scripture tells us that the Lord will have a tried
people. We must prove ourselves worthy of
Him if saved by Him. You will remember
what our Savior said, John xiv 16-17, "Even the
spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive,
because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him;
but ye know him, for he dwelleth in you, and
shall be in you."
	Now allow me to tell you—some of us have
learned that when we are in possession of this
spirit, we are not the same persons that we are
without it. It may truly be called the Comfort-
er, for it heals the wounds which sacrifices make
—wounds that would not be, if we all possessed
this spirit. It seems if all were in possession of
this good spirit there would be no sacrifices.
	We learn from St Paul, Galatians iv 29, "He
that was born after the flesh persecuted Him
that was born after the spirit; even so it is now."
So Paul ought to know, for he served the first
faithfully, before receiving the latter. Accord-
ingly we learn both lessons, as our Mother Eve
designed we should.
	We must possess great nobility of character
to keep the higher law, even that of our Savior,
which will bring a reign of peace on the earth,
because the one who possesses this good spirit

[Column 2]

will sacrifice, in a measure, as far as circumstan-
ces will permit, to one who is ignorant of the
same, hoping that someday he will see his own
errors, when standing before his Maker.
	We are a self-sacrificing people. Did not the
Lord say, "Gather my people together, those
who have made a covenant with me by sacri-
fice?" For what purpose was this? To bring a
reign of peace upon the earth.
	This is to be our Savior's mission when He
comes again. There must be a people prepared
to meet Him. Who will be prepared if there
are none who strictly obey His laws? Are the
whole world becoming infidels? Do none of the
churches of Christendom believe in the Savior's
rules, which will bring a reign of peace on the
earth? Must we be always afflicted, because we
do believe this and are trying to govern self
under all circumstances, according to the laws
given by the Lord of heaven and earth. This
must eventually produce a reign of peace, while
those who do not apply their minds to this rule
cannot expect peace, or the smile of an allwise
Providence. This may well be called the high-
er law—So high that only a few try to reach it;
but those who do find by its precepts they ob-
tain the spirit which gives them more nobility
of character than they could otherwise possess.
	Much may be said upon this subject, but a
hint to the wise is sufficient. I do not counten-
ance infidelity Let us have fidelity to God,
fidelity to our parents, and also to all who
bear rule in righteousness, and no infidelity at
all. These are my sentiments—a few simple
facts given in simplicity.
	M. E. KIMBALL.
March 12, 1885.

QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

	Relief Society Quarterly Conference, Salt Lake
Stake, was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-bly Rooms, Friday, March 20th, 1885, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horns presiding. Her Counselors, El-
mina S. Taylor and Helen M. Whitney, were
both present in the morning. After the usual
opening exercises and reading of minutes of
previous Conference, reports were read from
thirty-seven branches, showing all to be in a
prosperous condition.
	Prest. Horne gave counsel to the Relief Society
in regard to their duties, and urged them to be
energetic and persevering; take care of the poor,
comfort the distressed, alleviate sorrow and heed
the commandments of God. Advised the sis-
ters to give to the Deseret Hospital, and in all
things to observe strict economy, remembering
God had made every economy in nature so that
there should be no waste. She also urged the
secretaries to take pains to prepare correct re-
ports, and that it was expected each branch so-
ciety should be represented in the Conference; if
not convenient for the President, one of her
Counselors, if possible, that they might hear the
instructions given for their benefit and help.
	Coun. H. M. Whitney addressed the meeting:
Alluded to her absence from the meetings be-
cause of sickness, but her desire was to be with
them and do her part; referred to her recent
visit to the Tooele Conference, in company with
Sister Mary Ellen Kimball, and spoke of some
of the instructions given there by Apostle
Lyman. She spoke upon charity and forgiveness
towards one another, and upon the principle of
plural marriage, relating an incident in her own
experience. Made other good remarks.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Lord, dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Rachel
R. Grant.
	Afternoon session: Opened with the usual
exercises, when the meeting was addressed by
Counselor E. S. Taylor.


[Column 1]

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Phebe W.
Woodruff, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. Wilcox, Mrs. R. M. Carrington, Mrs. H.
T. King, Mrs. Grant and Mrs. Horne each
spoke upon subjects calculated to impress the
minds of the sisters with a due sense of the ob-
ligations resting upon them as Latter-day Saints
the momentous events now transpiring with
this people, the need of becoming more self-sus-
taining, and of withdrawing our patronage
from those who were seeking to deprive us of
our rights and privileges, and to bring upon us
desolation and misery, because of our religious
belief and practice, the training of the children
of Zion and the education of the mind and
heart in the principles of the Gospel and in
everything pertaining to our life and well being
here upon the earth, and our exaltation in a fu-
ture state.
	At the close of the meeting Conference ad-
journed for three months.  Singing, "Haste,
glorious day," etc.  Benediction by President
Horne.

	The Primay Quarterly Conference of this
Stake of Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday, March 21st, 1885,
commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
presiding. Singing, "Come, children come,"
etc. Prayer by Sister R. M. Carrington. Sing-
ing, "Jospeh Smith's first prayer." A little
girl from the Third Ward sang a song. Minutes
of previous Confernece, and reports from the
several Associations, were read by the Secretary,
Miss Bessie Deane. Several little girls from the
Thirteenth Ward sang "Our Father in heaven,"
etc.; a little girl from the Fourth Ward read a
manuscript paper, entitled "The Children's
Helper;" Recitation, by little Minnie James of
the Seventh Ward; Dialogue, "The Deacons,"
by two boys from the Fifth Ward; a flute solo,
by a little boy, seven years old, from the
Twelfth Ward. Prest. Clawson expressed her
pleausre at the number of reports received, and
also that the exercises had been so well rendered,
and spoke of her intention to have a Fair for this
Stake the coming summer. A little girl recited
a piece, entitle "False Alarms."
	Sister M. L. Horne addressed the children on
keeping the Sabbath day holy, speaking the
truth and other important matters. A little
girl from the Seventeenth Ward sang a song
entitled "Charity."
	Sister Carrington spoke upon prayer—had
great faith in the prayers of the children; urged
them to pry for the authorities of the Church
and those in trouble at the present time, and
made other remarks.  An organ solo was then
given by a little girl from the Twentieth Ward.
	Coun. Lydis Ann Wells rejoiced at the large
attendance, adn the improvement manifested
in the children; told them to try and learn some-
thing every day; exhibited some very interest
ing charts; thought every Association should
have them, as they would be very instructive.
Gave notice that the officers meeting would be
held the last Thursday in every month, at the
residence of Prest. Clawson, and exhorted the
officers to attend. Recitation, by Eva Barfoot,
and a song by three girls of the Twenty-first
Ward; a little girl from the sixteenth Ward
gave a recitation, after which Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, "Lord,
dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Sister E. B.
Wells.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Conference—On Saturday, at
2 p.m., the Quarterly Conference of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
Salt Lake Stake convened in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms. There was a large at-
tendance, the hall being crowded. Counselor
Mrs. ria Y. Dougall presided. After the usual

[Column 2]

opening exercises, Stake Secretary, Augusta J.
Crocheron, read the minutes of previous Con-
ference, and Assistant Secreatary, Mrs. Minnie H.
James, read reports from twenty associations,
which made a very satisfactory showing. Sis-
ters M. Y. Dougall, Elmina S. Taylor, M. I.
Horne, Minnie H. James, and Elders George H.
Taylor and S. Hill addressed the conference;
their remarks were instructive and encouraging,
and general good feeling prevailed.
	Sister E. S. Taylor in her remarks referred to
the reading of the Christmas Idyl in the Logan
Conference of Y. L. M. I. A., and said it was
pleasure to hear a young lady read so grand a
poem with such a true idea of its merrits and
force.
	The following resolutions were presented and
unanimously adopted:
	"Whereas, there is being carried on in this
Territory, by a clique of despicable schemers, an
inhuman warfare against the peace and liberties
of the Latter-day Saints, in conducting which
the rights of its victims and common decency
are trampled under foot; and,
	Whereas, We view the course of these con-
spirators against the rights and privileges of our
relatives nad friends with abhorence; there-
fore,
	Be it resolved, that from this time forward,
we will abstain from giving any business pat-
ronage to the promoters of, and active partici-
pants in, the crusade against the Latter-day
Saints, and all those who assist it or give it their
sympathy; also,
	Be it further resolved, That we will in future
make our purchases from our friends only, and
so far as lies in our power, give home manufac-
ture [-] goods the preference over those imported,
and use our best endeavors to sustain such
manufacture."
	The Conference then adjourned for three
months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	"And, behold, there is none other place ap-
pointed than that which I have appointed, nei-
ther shall there be any other place appointed
than that which I have appointed for the work
of the gathering of my saints until the day
cometh when there is found no more room for
them; and then I have other places which I
will appoint unto them and they shall be
called stakes, for the curtains or the strength
of Zion.
	"Behold, it is my will that all they who call
on my name and worship me according to my
everlasting Gospel, should gather together and
stand in holy places, and prepare for the revel-
ation that is to come when the veil of the cov-
ering of my temple in my tabernacle which
hideth the earth shall be taken off, and all
flesh shall see me together. And every cor-
ruptible thing, both of man or of beast of the
field, or of the fowls of heaven, or of the sea,
etc. Behold, here is wisdom concerning the
children of Zion, even many, but not all, they
were found transgressors, therefore, they needs
be chastened, etc."
	Now, in the revelation are some very great
promises to that little handful of exiled Saints,
and to their children, who had been driven
from their homes and scattered hither and
thither, wandering among strangers, without
shelter, and destitute of food and comfortable
clothing, threatened, at every turn, with death,
and suffering many afflictions because of their
religion. This is the kind of a people the
Lord is going to restore to their inheritances in
the land of Zion, including all the faithful, and
no other people need think to intercept them,
for the promise is to them and their children,

[Column 2]

whether they live or die, if they are faithful.
And I see no promise to any people inheriting
that holy land and building up the Zion of our
God, who have not suffered persecution. (I
understand the Josephites are gathering to In-
dependence, Jackson County, with the inten-
tion of building up Zion.)
	"The scattered Saints in Missouri commenced
the year of 1834 with a conference, which they
held in Clay County, on the first day of Jan.,
at which Bishop Partridge presided. After
transacting much business, relative to comfort-
ing and strengthening the scattered members
of the Church, it was resolved that Lyman
Wight and Parley P. Pratt be sent as special
messengers to represent the condition of the scat-
tered brethren in Missouri, to the presiding
Church in Kirtand, and ask their advice.
	The following are extracts of letters written
by the Presidency in Kirtland, on the 22nd of
Jan., 1834:
	There is a prospect of the eastern churches
doing something pretty handsome towards the
deliverance of Zion, in the course of a year, if
Zion is not delivered otherwise.
	Though the Lord said, this affliction came
upon you because of your sins, polluting your
inheritances, etc., yet there is an exception of
some, namely, the heads of Zion, for the Lord
said, your brethren in Zion begin to repent,
and the angels rejoice over them, etc.
	You will also see an exception at the top of the
second column of this revelation; therefore this
affliction came upon the Church to chasten
those in transgression, and prepare the hearts
of those who had repented for an endowment
from the Lord.
	We shall not be able to send you any more
money at present, unless the Lord puts it into
our hands unexpectedly.
	There is not quite so much danger of a mob
upon us as there has been. The hand of the
Lord has been stretched out to protect us."
	"You purchased your inheritances with
money, therefore, behold you are blessed; you
have not purchased your lands by the shedding
of blood, consequently you do not come under
the censure of this commandment, which says,
'If by blood lo your enemies are upon you,
and ye shall be driven from city to city, give
yourselves no uneasiness on this account."
	The following revelation was given Feb. 29,
1839, concerning the redemption of Zion,
which can be read in the Doctrine and Coven-
ants, but is too good to be entirely left out
here:
	"Verily I say unto you, my friends, behold I
will give unto you a revelation and command-
ment, that you may know how to act in the
discharge of your duties concerning the salva-
tion and redemption of your brethren who
have been scattered from the land of Zion, be-
ing driven and smitten by the hands of mine
enemies, on whom I will pour out mine wrath
without measure, in mine own due time, for I
have suffered them thus far, that they might
fill up the measure of their iniquities, that
their cup might be full; and that those that
call themselves after my name might be
chastened for a little season with a sore and
grievous chastisement, because they did not
hearken altogether unto the precepts and com-
mandments which I gave unto them. But
verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a
decree,which my people shall realize inasmuch
as they hearken from this hour unto the coun-
sel, which I, the Lord their God, give unto
them.
	Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, be-
gin to prevail against my enemies from this
very hour; and by hearkening to observe all
the words which I, the Lord their God, shall
speak unto them; they shall never cease to pre-
vail until the kingdoms of the world are sub-
dued under my feet, and the earth is given
unto the Saints to possess it for ever and ever.


[Column 1]

	But inasmuch as they keep not my command-
ments, and hearken not to observe all my words'
the kingdoms of the world shall prevail
against them; for they were set to be a light
unto the world and to be saviors of men, and
inasmuch as they are not the saviors of men
they are as salt that hath lost its savor, and is
therefore good for nothing but to be cast out
and to be trodden under the feet of men.
	But verily I say unto you, I have decreed
that your brethren, who have been scattered,
shall return to the land of their inheritances
and build up the waste places of Zion, for after
much tribulation, as I have said unto you in a
former commandment, cometh the blessing.
Behold this is the blessing which I promised
after your tribulations, and the tribulations of
your brethren, even their restoration to the
land of Zion, to be established no more to be
thrown down. Nevertheless if they pollute
their inheritances they shall be thrown down,
for I will not spare them if they pollute their
inheritances.
	Behold, I say unto you, that the redemption
of Zion must needs come by power, therefore
I will raise up unto my people a man who
shall lead them like as Moses led the children
of Israel; for ye are the children of Israel and
of the seed of Abraham, and ye must needs be
led out of bondage by power with a stretched
out arm; and as your fathers were led at the
first, even so shall the redemption of Zion be:
therefore, let not your hearts faint, for I say
not unto you as I did unto your fathers, mine
angel shall go up before you, but not my
presence; but I say unto you mine angel shall
go up before you, and also my presence, and in
time ye shall possess the goodly land."	*	*
	Joseph continues: "Thus while the press
was mourning, the work prospering, the Saints
rejoicing in the east, troubles changed and mul-
tiplied in the west, as may be seen by the fol-
lowing letter, written by W. W. Phelps:
	Clay Co., Mo., Feb. 27, 1834.

DEAR BRETHREN:
	The times are so big with events, and the
anxiety of everybody so great to watch them,
that I feel somewhat impressed to write often-
er than I have done, in order to give you more
of the "strange acts" of this region.
	I have just returned from Independence, the
seat of war in the west. About a dozen of our
brethren, among whom were Bishop Partridge,
Elder Corrill and myself, were subpoened in
behalf of the state; and on the 23rd of Feb.,
about twelve o'clock, we were on the bank op-
posite Everetts' Ferry, where we found Cap-
tain Atchison's company of "Liberty Blues,"
near fifty, rank and file, ready to guard us into
Jackson County. The soldiers were well armed
with United States Muskets, bayonets fired, etc.,
and to me the scene was "passing strange"
and long to be remembered; the martial law in
force to guard the civil. About twenty-five
men crossed over to effect a landing in safety,
and when they came near the warehouse they
fired six or eight guns, though the enemy had
not gathered to witness the landing. After we
were all across and waiting for the baggage
wagon, it was thought most advisable to en-
camp in the woods, and the witnesses, with half
the company, marched nearly a mile towards
Independence to build night fires, as we were
without tents and the weather cold enough to
snow a little. While on the way the Quarter
master and others, that had gone on head to
prepare quarters in town, sent an express back,
which was not very pacific in appearance.
Captain Atchison continued the express to Col.
Allen for the two hundred drafted militia, and
also to Liberty for more ammunition; and the
night passed off in warlike style, with the
sentinels marching silently at a proper distance
from the watch fire.

[Column 2]

	Early in the morning we marched, strongly
guarded by the troops, to the seat of war, and
quartered in the block house, formerly the
tavern stand of S. Flournay. After breakfast
we were visited by the District Attorney, Mr.
Reese, and Attorney General Mr. Wells. From
them we learned that all hopes of criminal
prosecution was at an end. Mr. Wells had
been sent by the governor to investigate, as
far as possible, the Jackson Co. outrage, but
the bold front of the mob, bound even unto
death, (as I have heard) was not to be pene-
trated by civil law, nor awed by executive in-
fluence. Shortly after Captain Atchison in-
formed me that he had just received an order
from the judge that his company's service was
no longer needed in Jackson County, and we
were marched out of town to the tune of Yan-
kee-doodle in quick time, and soon returned to
our camp without the loss of any lives. (This
order was issued by the court, apparently, on
account of the speedy gathering of the old
mob, or citizens of Jackson County, and their
assuming such a boisterous and mobocratic ap-
pearance.) In fact much credit is due to Cap-
tain Atchison for his gallantry and hospitality,
and I think I can say of the officers and com-
pany that their conduct as soldiers and men is
highly reputable, so much so knowing as I do
the fatal result had the militia come, or not
come; I can add that the Captain's safe return
refreshed my mind with Xenophen's safe retreat
of the ten thousand. Thus ends all hope of
redress, even with a guard ordered by the
governor, for the protection of the court and
witnasses.
	Before a crop is harvested it becomes ripe of
itself. The dreadful deeds now done in Jackson
Co.. with impunity, must bring matters to a
focus shortly. Within two or three weeks
past some of the most savage acts ever wit-
nessed have been committed by these bitter
branches. Old Father Lindsey, whose locks
have been whitened by the blasts of nearly
seventy winters, had his house thrown down,
after he had been driven from it, his goods corn,
etc. piled together and fire put to it, but for-
tunately, after the mob retired, his son extin-
guished it."	*	*	*	*


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

FREMONT, PIUTE CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few words from this part of
the vineyard would not be amiss we send a few
words to let you know that we are alive to our
duties and striving, to the best of our ability
to serve the Lord and teach the young in the
ways of truth and righteousness.
	Our association is in a good condition, and
the members are always ready, when called
upon, to respond to their duties. If you think
this worth space in your columns please pub-
lish. We are, as ever, the well wishers of the
cause of truth.
	MARGRET J. TAYLOR, President,
	SARAH A. ALLRED, Secretary,
	ANNA S. TAYLOR, Ass't Sec.

BEAVER	STAKE.
	On Friday, March 6th, a conference of the
ladies Relief Society of Beaver Stake was
held here, of which the following is a synopsis:
Called to order at 10 a.m. by Prest. Lucinda
Howd.
	After the preliminary exercises the Prest.
called for reports from the various wards, all
of which were eminently satisfactory, showing
the societies to be under able management and
the members of each fully alive to the import-
ance of the times, and to the necessity of minis-
tering to the wants of the poor and needy.
	A number of the ladies spoke and the in-


structions were of a nature tending to elevate
and refine the hearers, if put into practice.
Much good instruction was given to mothers
on the training of children. Some remarks
were made on the proceedings in the District
Court—nothing but faith and firmness will bear
us through this time of trial.
	In the afternoon the statistical and financial 
reports of the wards were read, and the local
authorities unanimously sustained; after which
several of the brethren spoke at some length,
showing that the times in which we live are
calculated to educate us in the ways of the
Lord, and as we have no friend but our Hea-
venly Father, we must look to Him alone for
protection.
	The general spirit of the conference was im-
provement in all good works, and diligence in
the cause of the Lord.	E. A. F.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	NUTRIOSO, Arizona, Feb. 13, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking perhaps a few words from far away
might be interesting is why I write.
	We left St. George the last of June 1883,
and after an agreeable visit to Panguitch Lake
and various settlements we returned to St.
George to the fall conference and soon after
bade adieu to our much cherished home, and
the Temple and its pleasant associations. We
had a very prosperous journey of 500 miles
through an indescribable wilderness of sterile
barrenness, and came to this place in good
health and spirits, although tired, worn and
weary. We here found most of our family in
peace, comfort and reasonably prosperous in
the midst of the saints.
	This is a pleasant, fertile, but small, valley,
truly in the tops of the mountains, with beau-
tiful scenery of low hills and openings of tim-
ber for farms, with the necessary water, this be-
ing a rainy climate. We have here the best
built and finest little town in Arizona; the
dwellings of frame painted white, with good,
substantial frame barns and outhouses; a co-op-
erative store in healthy and prosperous condi-
tion. We have a good frame meeting house,
also white, which is also our school house. Our
meetings are well attended, also our day and
Sunday schools, not forgetting the prosperous
condition of our Primary and Relief Society.
	The Brown brothers have a steam saw mill
in successful operation, to whose enterprise and
energy much of the prosperity of this little
town is to be credited.
	Yours respectuflly,	T. C.

	LOA, Piute Co., Feb. 15, 1885.
DEAR AUNT LULA:
	Your kind, good letter was received in due
time. I thank you for all your kind, comfort-
ing words; do not know whether I will be able
to come up there this summer, but I do know
that I improve all the time, although it is
slowly, but it is better slowly than not at all,
and I thank and praise the Lord for His good-
ness.
	I have written a little poem for baby Evan.
It is just an imaginary picture, not so good as
I should like. Sometime I may write him a 
better one.

BABY EVAN. 

I see his bright and heavenly eyes,
Tender and blue as yonder skies;
His softly floating golden hair
Hangs o'er his brow so pure and fair.
	Baby Evan!

His little hands, so plump and white,
to Willie's gown are clinging tight,
And coaxing him to play bo-peep
Around the crib where Lee's asleep.
	Baby Evan!


O artist! paint that picture true!
The golden hair and eyes of blue;
The rosy lips, half open now
To steal a kiss from Lee's fair	brow.
	Baby Evan!

Lee starts, and opens wide his eyes;
The others look with pleased surprise.
Oh, be those spirits pure and fair
When men as now I see them there!
	Sweet children!

COUSIN HATTIE.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	Remembering the great interest and sympa-
thy you expressed for my little afflicted niece,
Hattie Young, after you saw her two or three
years ago, I feel sure you will be pleased and
gratified to see the foregoing letter and poem
from her pen. If you think proper you are at
liberty to publish them.	LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿Miss Helen Gladstone's engagement to Prof-
essor James Stuart has been announced
through the papers. Prof. Stuart has been
lately elected to Parliament in place of Post-
master General Fawcett deceased. Miss Glad-
stone is the daughter of the Premier of Great
Britain.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at her residence, in Wilson Ward, Weber Co.,
Utah, January 26th, 1883, aged fifty-three years, ten
months and five days, of dropsy, Pettra Nellie Nielson,
beloved wife of L. H. Nielson, born in Sweden—bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints March, 1856; has passed through persecutions and
imprisonment in the old country for the Gospel's sake,
also many trying scenes in the Church and while cross-
ing the plains, but has ever been true and faithful,
never doubting the truth of the Gospel.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the members of the Wilson Ward Relief Society,
of Weber Co., Utah, unanimously adopt the following
Resolutions:
	Whereas, God in His wisdom has seen fit to call from
our midst by the hand of death our much loved and
worthy teacher, and,
	Whereas, Her labor in our Society has been faithfully
performed, we feel that some respect due her virtues be
recognized among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we do recognize in the death of our
sister, Pettra Nellie Nielson, the loss of an able, effic-
ient and faithful teacher in our Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and emula-
tion of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, children, relatives and
friends, in the loss of a loving wife, affectionate mother
and true friend.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
record, that a copy of them be sent to the bereaved
husband, and also that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.
	GENET BINGHAM, President,
	AMANDA M. BINGHAM, Secretray.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We deeply regret to announce the death of our be-
loved President and respected friend, Mary A. Shaffer,
who departed this life March 7th, 1885. She was the
wife of William Shaffer, and daughter of Thomas and
Hannah Hobson Bradshaw. Was born October 9th,
1844, Yorkshire, England. Her life to us seems but
brief, but has been spent in usefulness.
	She was President of the Relief Society of Ashley
Mill Ward, in which her labors were appreciated; was
also Secretary of the Primary, where she will at the
present time be greatly missed. Her earnest desire was
to understand the principles of her religion, and to live
them; and at no time was she heard to raise her voice in
objection to any principle. Her teachings and wise
counsels will long be remembered by the little ones of
this place.
	During her hours of sickness she was tenderly cared
for by a large circle of friends, who rendered her every
possible assistance, but God, in His inscrutable pur-
poses, has a greater work for her behind the veil, where

[Column 2]

she has gone to prepare the way for those she leaves
here.
	The funeral services were held at the school house
Sunday, March 8th, being the largest assembly of the
kind in this place. Remarks of consolation were offered
by Bishop Hatch and Counselor Clark, after which the
procession moved to the burying ground, where, with
the dedicatory prayer, the remains of our sister were
consigned to their last resting place, there to await the
resurrection of the just.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary A.
Shaffer, by the Relief Society of Ashley Mill Ward.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst, by the hand of death, our beloved sis-
ter, we feel that we have lost a faithful and worthy
member of the Relief Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors, and
devotion to duty, as worthy the fellowship and highest
esteem of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of an affectionate wife and a
kind friend.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
record, and a copy of the same be presented to the be-
reaved family, also the EXPONENT for publication.
	MELISSA REYNOLDS,
	ELLA REYNOLDS, Secretrary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It becomes our painful duty to transmit to you the
sad intelligence of the death of our beloved sister, Lois
Barnes Pratt, wife of Bishop John Hunt, who departed
this life, through an accident of being burned, March
9th, 1885. Sister Hunt was born March 6th, 1837, in the
Town of Ripley, Chatauqua Co., New York. She was
baptized when eight years old in the Mississippi River.
When quite small her father, Elder Addison Pratt, was
called on a mission to the Society Islands, and was ab-
sent several years. Her mother, Louisa B. Pratt, with
her four little daughters, passed through all the persecu-
tions of the Saints, without her husband's help, while
he was away laboring as a missionary, and crossed the
plains, driving her own team, with the assistance of a
small boy, and arrived in the valley among the first, in
President B. Young's company.
	When in her thirteenth year Sister Lois Hunt went
with her mother and sisters to join her father on his
second mission to the Society Islands. They remained
there one year and a half. She could talk and sing in
the Tahitian language. When they returned from their
mission they remained in California, where she became
acquainted with and was married to John Hunt, July
4th, 1857, by Wm. J. Cox.
	She was the mother of eight children, six daughters
and two sons, all of whom are still living. She was
chosen Second Counselor to Sister Willmirth East,
Stake President, July 12th, 1880. When Sister East
moved away she was chosen First Counselor to our
Stake President, Sister Emma S. Smith, Septembe
18th, 1883.
	She was a noble, generous woman. She could truly
be called a leader among us; especially, by her example,
influencing us to be punctual and prompt at our
meetings, encouraging us to be faithful in looking after
the sick and needy, teaching us to be charitable to each
other; always a peace maker, and was one who could
always see some good in every one. As her husband
was our Bishop and father, she was also our mother.
	The following Resolutions of Respect we feel to unani-
mously adopt.
	That, inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has seen fit
to take from our midst our dearly beloved sister, who
was ever faithful and true,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Relief Society,
do deeply mourn our beloved President, and that we
condole with her husband and daughter, who are absent
at this time, and with every member of the family, in
this their great loss: but while weeping together, we feel
to look beyond this vale of tears to the happy home
above, and to the time of rejoicing when the faithful
will all be reunited again. And, be it
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the mourning family, that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT, and also that a copy be preserved in our Stake
Record.	(Signed)
	EMMA S. SMITH,
	MARY J. WEST,
	LUCY H. FLAKE,
	JANE FREEMAN,
	PHEBE KARTCHNER.
Snowflake, Apache Co., Arizona, March 13th, 1885.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT’ CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And	an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 1l4, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains. Brocaded and Plaia Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at Manufacturers’ Prices, by
MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road
Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Ecx 906, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

