VOL. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1884.		No. 12.


ONWARD

Onward! A word that is old in name,
But its import is ever new;
Giving fresh strength to the faltering heart,
Pointing to where life's deep shadows part
And heaven's sunlight is shining through.

What though the deserts around are dark,
While the valleys behind are fair,
And the innocent trust of our childish hours,
The freshness of heart, life's morning flowers,
And the dreams of youth are there.

Have not the garlands that crowned us then
Faded and fallen apart?
And the flowers that were fairest in bygone years,
Have they not gathered their dew of tears
To drop on an aching heart?

But beyond the mist of the coming years
We may catch a glimmer of gold,
And we know as the soul grows pure with prayer,
By the spotless robes that are gleming there,
"Tis a crown that the angels hold.

Then onward forever! Regret is doom
To the soul that lingers and waits, 
Viewing the future with doubt and fear,
Mourning the past till the grave is near,
And closed are the golden gates.

MILLICENT.


PUT ON THY STRENGTH, OH ZION!

"Awake! awake! put on thy strength!"
	Thou Zion of the Holiest One!
Resound through all thy breadth and length
	The grand appeal, the prophet's song.

"Oh, captive daughter, loose thy bands--
	The dust from off thy garments shake,"
Fear not to keep the Lord's commands,
	Put on thy strength. Awake! Awake!

Awake! and supplicate thy King
	To thwart the enemy's desire;
Together let thy watchmen sing,
	And fan to flame faith's smouldering fire.

This is no time to calmly sleep,
	Nor e'en the time to idly rest;
Continual guard the wise will keep
	When Zion's children are oppressed.

Lo! multitudes comprise the throng
	Oppos'd to ev'ry law of right;
Yea, many are our foes, and strong
	The forces that against us fight.

God is our only shield and stay,
	God is our only hope and Friend!
Unless we all His laws obey,
	How dare we on His aid depend?

The proud and haughty--how shall these
	Upon the Lord of Hosts rely?
Oh, how shall those who sit at ease
	The armies of the earth defy?

"God is not mocked," nor will He fight
	For those who but of grandeur dream;
For those who His commandments slight,
	Although, indeed, as Saints they seem.

Come, let us all unite as one,
	And all our evil ways forsake;
Oh, Zion, gird truths's armor on,
	Put on thy strength. Awake! Awake!

Shall Israel stoop, in dire alarm,
	To worship Baal with bended knee?
The Lord will bare His mighty arm,
	When eye to eye His people see.

Though Zion's sons for nought are sold,
	Held in derision, near and far,
Sing to the Lord, ye captives bold,
	He'll set your prison doors ajar.


All Zion's shackles God will break
	Within His own appointed time;
Yea! though the heavens and earth should shake, 
	Moved by Omnipotence sublime.

But mightiest powers will yet combine
	Against thee, and a conflict make;
Zion, arise! thy light must shine;
	Put on thy strength. Awake! Awake!
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 12, 1884.


[Column 1]

				MARGARET FULLER. 
				BY HANNAH T. KING.

	I have just laid down the life of Margaret
Fuller.  No one who has a sympathetic soul
can rise from that life without realizing that
they are Fuller in the head, [asterisks]
and most assuredly Fuller in the whole soul!
It has absorbed me so much that it took time
to grade me down to every day life and com-
mon feeling. 
	Among her devoted friends three grand
men, James Freeman Clarke, Ralph Waldo
Emerson and William Henry Channing, have
appeared as her biographers.  These names
alone assure us she was a woman of no mean
order, and every reader of her life will certain-
ly desire to place a chaplet on her brow, or a
bouquet at her feet.  Her life, with all its glory,
throws a sadness over my spirit.  It seemed
ever one of hard struggle, yet no doubt such
a mind as hers---so rich, so full of mighty in-
telligence, was capable of making in every
portion of that life, its own Elysium; still a
film of melancholy stole over me as I read her
[--]thly pilgrimage, with her most heart rend-
ing and early death.  That alone seemed to
engulf every pleasing, delightful, proud
thought I had entertained of a woman all
must love, and more than that---admire with
devotion!  I could not feel satisfied with her
marriage, that is, the man she married, yet [--]
gained one great redeeming point in my [-]sti-
mation, that he was capable of loving and ap-
pr[-]ciating such a woman, who paid him the
great honor of bestowing upon him her heart
and hand!  It speaks well in favor of all who,
possessing great blessings and honors, have the
faculty to weigh and measure and appreciate
them.  Still I felt this marriage sealed her
destiny; here th[-] electric chain was dropped,
and her "occupation gone!" but out of the
fearful cloud that over-hung her death this
idea brought out a "silver lining."  The ways
of the Great Director of the universe are past
finding out even to the most humble and pre-
sistent inquirer; yet in some of those mysteri-
ous dispensations of Providence, that prostrate
the soul in dust and ashes, and for a time close
the doors of light and inspiration, and cause it
to sit in darkness and the shadow of death,
who has not felt that there was still a drop of
honey in the draft of gall? The soul that
leans on its God and Savior realizes this
always.
  Surely the mother of Margaret Fuller felt
this at the recital of the awful calamity that
had befallen her gifted child---aye! and that
child's child.  It seems too awful, when we at-
tempt to realize it, and make the case our own;
yet my consolation came when I pictured that
noble, that hightly and intensely educated soul
passing "beyond the gates"into that Empyreum,
the grandeur of which "eye hath not seen, ear

[Column 2]

hath not heard, nor hath it entered into the
heart of humanity to conceive," and finding by
her side the little image on which she had be-
stowed her soul's love, and probably him, also,
whom she had honored and elevated by her
alliance with him in her sublunary existence.
  Great and noble woman!  Here was they
brief nursery, the primary of thy earthly so-
journ, in which thou didst help to awaken the
world to the restoration of woman to the pedes-
tal from which she had fallen and didst
stretch out a hand to raise the mighty lever
that will yet propel women from her intertia,
her apathy, her subordination and frivolity,
her abjectness and her ignorance (all of which
will have fulfilled their mission of the curse)
and restored her to her pristine position. when
she walked forth into the garden of Eden,
		"Grace in all her steps,
		Heaven in her eye, in every
		Gesture dignity and love!
		The friend and co-partner
		Of her brother man, wearing
		The crown matrimonial, as
		The badge of the partner of his
		Throne and sovereignty!"
	For this grand finale, Margaret Fuller
stretched out her hand, laid out her heart and
brain---seeing in the vision of her mind, woman
standing once again on the very pinnacle on
which her Maker placed her on the morning of
His great creation, bearing at this remote per-
iod the high and mighty title of motherhood
of the whole human race---the "bearer of th[-]
souls of men," and other titles equally glori-
ous yet to be revealed.
			THE HEART'S EFFUSIONS.
	Engulfed beneath the wave---
		The angels surely came
	And caught thee from its [---]
		In clouds of lam[---] flame.

	Yes, yes, I s[---] to know
		Tho[-] ne'er we[-]t in the sea[-]
	Thou wert prepared to  go
		Where the just and blessed be.

	Thou bright, evangel soul;
		Thy home is with the blest;
	Thy work, while ages roll,
		Shall bring thee sweetest rest.

	And we, thy sisters here,
		Will gather thy planted seed,
	And gladly help to rear
		For comers' future green.


WILL THE PURITAN RACE PERISH?

	Some writer has said, "The Puritan race is
dying of pride."  The writer, within a year,
heard a noted speaker exclaim before a large
concourse of people, "The Puritan race is
doomed."  The same gloomy sentiment may
get utterance in various directions.
	I do not suppose that the idea of discrimina-
tion between Puritan and Pilgrim is often
thought of, but that the reference is in general
to those who came over in the Mayflower, to
those of like type arriving later, or landing
elsewhere, to that people and their descendents
whom we commonly recognize as the New
England race.  Should a long line of ancestry
reach back to Holland, France, Germany, or 
Russia, it would matter not, the New England
traits existing, then the individuals are freely
included in our serious inquiry.
	Here are people, not as graceful as the an-
cient Persians and Greeks, not as ponderous


as the old Romans, not as versatile as the
French, not as profound as the Germans, not
as fascinating as the Italians or Spaniards, but
in their sum total, as valuable, as much to be
respected as any that existed. Their preserva-
tion is to be coveted, their continuance be-
comes a matter of national concern, and even
of world-wide consideration.
	Here is a blood largely of English and
Scotch origin, receiving a peculiar, a New
England, a new world tinge. A specimen of
this stock is observing and analytical to the
keenest shrewdness; self-denying, loyal to
principle, inclined to order and worship; lov-
ing regulated liberty, a natural leader and em-
ployer of his fellows. There is many a happy
village, largely Irish, with two or three Yan-
kees at the head of its business. These lead-
ing men appreciate the services, the wit, the
religious and other rights of all the men in
their employ, it may be, to a most admirable
extent. In multitudes of cases the employees
would not like to be in any body else's service.
Often these men run factory, shop, or store at
a loss, for the time being at least, rather than
distress the help by shutting down the gates.
The man may be a farmer undertaking large
improvements which will not pay, as his wife
well knows; but he, in his heart, loves to im-
prove, to renovate, to direct, and above all, to
pay out money, honestly earned, where the re-
cipient will be grateful, or will be helped to
live and support those dependent upon the earn-
ings of his naked hands.
	Some may have an antipathy against this
species of men, exult in the least prospect of
their extinction; yet I freely inquire, how can
we spare them socially? What community
was better to live in than a typical New Eng-
land neighborhood? Answer, ye who have
had a wide experience, who were brought up
in such society, and have since been tossed here
and there upon the billows of a wandering life.
All that Henry Ward Beecher has asserted, or
his sister Stowe has illustrated, and so many,
many others have delineated in praise of the
kind of folks to which the Beechers, Edwardses
Dickensons, Winslows, Robinsons, Larneds,
Bates, Lincolns, Quincys, Adamses, Garfields,
and an innumberable host of others belong, has
had its foundation in everlasting verity.
	Well, is there danger that this kind of peo-
ple, this class of families, may disappear? Yes,
and the danger is personal, fundamental.
Their influence may be getting muffled, may
be waning; still there is much more than that
to fear. In some instances the old sharpness
is blunted, the quiet confidence is passing into
uneasiness, the perseverance becoming less
marked, the church tendency lessening along
with the partial loss of simplicity, and some
parting, alas! with purity. Nor is so much all.
There are fearful clouds rising upon different
parts of the horizon and upon one, large and
dark, we seem to read in raised black letters
the terrible word, Extinction.
	The time has come to sound an alarm, to run
with the truthful message, to put away every
embarrassment and "cry aloud." Just where
the writer happens now to be, in a country
town, in Worcester Co., Mass., there is much
to startle one. In Worcester itself, "the heart
of the commonwealth,' in all the New England
cities, in sections of the Middle States, and in
the far West, there are primary circumstances
which startle all who are very thoughtful. We
find families where children might have had a
heaven to grow up in, childless! Like house-
holds with only one or two children. These
may not be rugged. In not unfrequent in-
stances, where there have been many children,
all have gone to early graves! Districts that
used to embrace fifty or sixty pupils now as-
semble eight or ten. If a district now keeps
up to its older number of pupils it is because
foreign families have settled in the neighbor-
hood. Consolidation of districts is going on for
lack of children.
	There are changes which indeed are not im-
provements. The strain on life grows severe,
the fashion stylish, the habits expensive, the
struggle to keep up or surpass intense, piti-
less.
	Woman, as we see her by the eye of history
stepping upon the rock of Plymouth, woman
as represented by our grandmothers, woman as
a helpmeet, woman ever the central figure in
social life, the marked, the Puritan woman is
failing the Puritan man. Who then will help
him?
	I know of fathers who almost shudder at the
mention of their daughters' names. They
know, as no other man can, the riches of good-
ness, the sparkle of love and  genius in the
bosom of these girls; but how shall the father
be able to dress, school, and rear them as other
folks do, and they retain their health, freshness,
animation, and innocency? If he would limit
them to his income, instruct them in hygiene,
render them philosophical generally, who will
aid him? How many will thwart him and
render those dear daughters discontented,
treacherous to his wishes and wisdom. His
own friends may plot against him. Fortunate
is he if he have a son who is patient, who hon-
ors his father, who eschews popular vices and
all vice, who respects the family name, who
reveres the whole vast circuit of God's laws,
who stands like a mountain of firmness by
what is prudent and solid, by eternal common
sense and undying righteousness. There are
Puritans that have such sons. Is the number
comparatively large? Is the percentage on the
increase?
	Go, go in disguise, if you please, into the by-
ways of cities, the country stores, the post-
offices; note what you see and hear. Confine
yourself now to the land of the Pilgrims.
You cannot forget that these young men are
soon to stand in the place of the older, and
that the mortality, too, of elder and prominent
men at present is very great. Repair to the
church on Sunday, after all the swearing,
boasting, mocking, tobacco-mulching, and so
on, you have been obliged to witness the week
before, and find many of these fellows there, if
you can. Say over to yourself, "Puritan,"
"New England." Repeat the names of the
New England States; think of what were their
characteristics. Let their history, their lead,
their eminence pass before you. Interrogate
your very soul; question the lessons and warn-
ings of the world's history; inquire relentlessly,
whether without reformation the youth of
these States are going to bear up and lift still
higher, as they ought, the prestige of these
States.
	The writer is not trying to make out a case.
He is not saying or intimating that there is no
good to be seen. He does not aver that there
is no flickering hope in his sobered heart, that
there will be repentance and rescue; that a
remnant, at the worst, will be saved. Yet he
is thoughtful, awakened, whispering to himself,
"We must be resigned if this choice blood be-
comes weakened, corrupted, and is even final-
ly lost out of all human sight in the great,
surging, endless river of events."
	I have in my list of acquaintance a few
young men in whom I delight. Some of them
are married. Half of these I deeply pity.
They have very fashionable or invalid wives.
They may be both. A fashionable invalid
woman of the northeastern States is the most
expensive creature, if we except Barnum's
white elephant, "under the whole heaven."
The number of maladies, the number of reme-
dies, the mysterious ailments, the retinue of
doctors, the multiplied quotations from them,
the noted resorts to be visited, the tremulous
conditions to be observed, the breathless exi-
gencies extant and forecast, excite, confuse,
and alarm me. My friend may have a gener-
ous income. Really I see he nceds it all. In
my simplicity or stupidity I may recommend
to a husband or wife, or to a brother or sister
of the same, some practical health publication
or clear-headed hygienic physician, or a home-
like institution, where good treatment and
counsel may be obtained, but I have rarely
found welcome for my advice. When out of
my own rather slender purse I have ordered
some vital literature sent to their address, it
has, perhaps, been accepted as a faint or dis-
tant curiosity, or a kind of flat proof that some-
body has a funny hobby.
	We may well glory in our common schools.
That is a Puritan glory. But I do not see why
school committees, including physicians, should
be so confident the curriculum is perfect, and
that no young person is ever injured by study
or confinement. The savants declare that even
the normal schools are never too severe for the
physical integrity of girls. The evils alleged
all proceed from "late dancing and late sup-
pers." These are guilty things indeed. But
is it customary for schools, in a motherly way,
to spare at all the young ladies suffering from
these dissipations? Do they spare them for
anything? Do they not make telling, ceaseless,
ingenious appeals to the large cautiousness and
approbativeness of the girl pupils? Which is
usually uppermost, the welfare of human be-
ings or the feats of disciplinarians, the pride
of the school board, and the astonishing feats of
professed educators?
	Ride through the country towns of New
England, and on roads away from depots and
factories, you will find deserted houses, old
cellars, dying orchards, and the like, showing
that the rural population is declining. Many
a field once cultivated, is now growing to wood.
Many a freehold has passed from a Yankee to
an Irish name. Many, of Puritan descent,
have rented their farms and moved into some
fashionable centre. Poor health, on both sides
of the house, is the common reason given. It
may sometimes be added, my son does not like
farming, or, my daughter works in the shop,
and if we moved she could board at home. It
would not be usually expected that the daughter
would like housework, even at home.
	Now, our fathers sometimes plowed and har-
rowed rocky hills, which, now we know of so
much better land, should always be left simply
to growth of wood. It still remains that there
is much land in the northeastern States, poor-
ly tilled; or not tilled at all, that could be
worked with profit. There are multitudes of
farms that could be bought for two thousand
dollars--what the buildings cost, say--which
would nicely support an average family of fru-
gal habits. In some sections a little more than
half that sum would buy a farm, on which one
could easily keep a horse, ten head of cattle,
and so on. With good markets near by, and
postal arrangements whereby a daily paper
could be read on the day it was published, why
are not these homesteads rapidly taken up?
Because there is so little science and so much
extravagance. Because of restlessness and
vanity. Because of a later-born, hot, unrea-
soning tendency to rush to over-crowded cities
and other crowded centres. Because of a lack
of the love of Nature. Because of a fatal
disregard of the best sources of health, and an
undervaluing of every sort of purity and
natural excellency.
	"Greece was never more adorned with arts,
fuller of schools, more resonant of music, rich-
er in genius, more showy in religious sacrifices,
than when she was struck with hopeless death!
It was the decay of virtue, the triumph of
selfish over public tastes, the absence of self-
denying men, the enervation of luxury, the
pride of vain philosophy, the hypocrisy of re-
ligion that killed her!"--Phrenological Jour-
nal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO THE CHILDREN OF TEMPE.

I was asked by your president something to add
To your entertainment, to make your hearts glad,
To instruct, edify, please and amuse,
So I called for the aid of my pen and my muse.

But just what to talk of is hard to decide,
The world is so broad, so deep and so wide.
With so many subjects for thought and for speech,
And all so infinitely out of my reach;

For we don’t comprehend the smallest thing,
The tiniest shrub, the bird on the wing.
So beyond the wisdom of you or I—
Wo see them live, and we see them die!

But we cannot call from the earth’s dark breast
The lovely flowers our earth has blest,
Nor give to the birds the breath and song
That cheers our hearts the whole day long.

We walk abroad, In the sun’s bright ray.
That cheers and brightens our earthly way,
And we see it silently sink from sight.
Leaving a glow of golden light.

And then we watch for the twinkling star.
And the moon peeping up o’er the hills afar;
We gaze, and admire, and love them all,
But the mantle of mystery still will fall.

O’er our dim mortal eyes, that we may not know
Just how God governs His works below;
But we know ’tis with wisdom and mighty skill,
That His hand guides all to His own great will.

All move in harmony grand and true—
Just study the page nature holds to view;
There is no jarring or discord there,
Only man has marred the picture fair.

It is sad to think how he turned away
From God, and truth, and the light of day,
To wander in darkness, and sin, and strife,
Away, far away, from the paths of life.

But children dear, there is joy for you,
If you will be noble, good and true.
For a messenger came from the throne above,
Bringing glad tidings of mercy and love.

He brought the gospel and left the key
That opens the way for you and me;
Even the way that our Savior trod,
Holding fast to the iron rod,

That will lead you safe by the mansion high,
Whoso inmates scoff as you pass them by;
That will keep you still, though the wild seas roar,
And wreck and ruin lie on the shore.

That will whisper peace to the troubled soul, 
And guide life’s bark o’er every shoal,
Till it teach the haven of peace and rest
In the golden city, redeemed and blest.	S. E. R.
	October 30, 1884.


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	On the 3rd the committee sent to confer with
the above named tribes brought in their report
of the same. “They had seen the chiefs of
the Omahas, Big Elk and Standing Elk,
his son, who signed the article which they had
drawn up requesting their consent to remain
one or two or more years.  Both tribes are very
anxious to have all the improvements we shall
leave behind.  The Otoes were anxious that we
should not close with the offer of the Omahas
and go up the river, because there they would
have no clue to the improvements we shall
make, whereas if we stay where we are they
consider themselves entitled to every thing we
shall leave behind.  A committee was appoint-
ed by the council to look out a good place for
cattle and to see about the removal of the fer-
ry up the river near here.”
	On the 5th my father,accompanied by Bros.
O. Pratt, W. Woodruff, J. M. Grant, Horace
Eldredge and several others, set out in pursuit
of a new ferrying place.  A committee met
them from the other side of the river by agree
ment. “They took a leather boat,” says Hor-
ace, “belonging to Brother Horace Eldredge,
which they had brought with them, and two of
them, Bros. Kimball and O. Pratt, went over
to see the committee.  On getting over they
found five of the brethren, Isaac Morley,
George W. Harris, Phinehas Richards, Wm.
Snow and Bro. Miller, waiting for them—they
all got into the boat with them and went back,
making seven in all, there being a heavy wind
up stream; the waves were very high, they were
in momentary danger of upsetting, as Brother
Kimball said who steered the boat, but they
landed safely without any accident at the place
from whence they started.”
	Here, at the mouth of the creek, they built
a brush bridge—two of them, Brother Kimball
and Wm. Snow, rode up the river about two
miles to see if they could find any better place
for the ferry than here—they returned, not
having found any, consequently it was agreed
to establish it here.  One or two of the breth-
ren then took the others back over the river in
the leather boat, and they then returned.  He
says, “The brethren up to this date have cut
from 1500 to 2000 tons of hay, the most of
which is already stacked.” He also mentions
the arrival of Uncle Joseph Young and family
that evening.  There were then rising of 800
wagons in the three camps, which were situated
in the form of a triangle.
	On the morning of the 8th Bishop Whitney
and Bros. Woolley and Van Cott started for St.
Louis to purchase goods, also Wm. Kimball,
Colonel Kane,Darnel Davis and Orson K.Whit-
ney started for Nauvoo.
	On the 11th Wm. returned with O. P. Rock-
well, the latter having started for Mt. Pisgah.
“They came to bring back some bed clothes,
etc., belonging to Bro. Jedediah M. Grant, that
were taken away by Col. Kane.  They had
gone about fifteen miles on their route from
the village when he (the Colonel) told them he
did not feel able to go through by land, conse-
quently they came back and put him on board
the steamer “General Brooks,” letting Wm.
take his horse, and agreed to meet him at Nau-
voo, in which if he failed he was to keep the
horse.”
	Saturday, 12th, a council was held, at which
the following resolutions were made:
	1st—That all dogs should be tied up at sun-
set and not released till the next morning at
sunrise.
	2nd—That no firing of guns should be per-
mitted within hearing of the camp either by
night or day,and that such things should cease
wholly at sunset.
	3rd—That no timber should be cut down for
fuel which would answer the purpose for build-
ing, and that when anyone wanted wood they
were to apply to Stephen Winchester and
Father Eldredge, who would instruct them
when and where to fell trees.  It was particu-
larly enjoined on the brethren to spare the
walnut trees, which had been already cut
down in great numbers to procure walnuts.


UTAH:
PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.
	A hasty announcement drew a small audi-
ence together at the theatre on Monday night
when Robert W. Sloan gave his lecture on
Utah, Past, Present and Future.  On the
platform were seated Prest. W. Woodruff and
Presidents Angus M. Cannon and Charles W.
Penrose. President Cannon introduced the
speaker with a few appropriate remarks, and
the young man plunged into his subject with
earnestness and enthusiasm.
	The subject is one, notwithstanding the as-
sertion of the author to the contrary, of
profound interest, to the young people, especial-


ly, of our Territory, and ever must be.  The
lecture begins with a brief, yet fairly compre-
hensive review of the physical appearance of
our Territory, showing its variety of climate,
water sources and other matters of interest as-
sociated with the geography of Utah.  This
done, a review of the Utah past is begun, par-
ticular stress being laid upon the cricket war,
grasshopper devastations, the result of the ap-
proach of Johnston's army, and the difficulties
encountered in battling Indians.
    The present of Utah deals with her agricul-
tural capacity, the varied character and abun-
dance of her mineral resources, her manufac-
tures, and her credit as an outgrowth of the
conditions peculiar to her people--conditions 
likely to win for the Territory permanent pros-
perity and future greatness.
    The lecture concludes with a view of the
future that awaits the Territory if her young
people only take advantage of the rare oppor-
tunities that await them in a land so richly
blessed as this, if they will only prove worthy
the blessings left them by the pioneers, and
which God has placed within their reach. It
is an exhortation to the young to prove them-
selves worthy their grand parentage and make
the country they inhabit great as they become
great themselves.
    The lecture was loudly and feelingly ap-
plauded whenever any touching or emotional
sentiment was portrayed in words.  He seemed
to feel all and more than he said, and his man-
ner indicated his intense interest in the theme
he had so graphically worked up, and upon
which he had bestowed much precious time and
thought. We regret that the lecture could
not be produced in the different wards of the
city, for it is one calculated to inspire an am-
bition in the youth of Zion to press on to nobler
aims and higher resolves, and to attain to that
excellence which is the result of purity of life
and nobility of purpose.


NOTES AND NEWS.

    On his eighty-fourth birthday, Mr. Geo.
Bancroft received congratulations from all
parts of the world, cablegrams coming from
Germany, England, and France.

    Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Oct. 14, as follows:
    Lelia C. Harrison, New Haven, Conn.,
Hitching Device.
    Margaret E. Knight, Ashland, Mass., Gar-
ment Clasp.

    The corporation of the New England Hos-
pital for Women and Children held its annual
meeting on Tuesday.  From the dispensary re-
port it appears that the number of patients
during the year was 10,493; new patients, 4,-
160; treated at home, 834.  Mrs. Ednah D.
Cheeny read the annual report.  Dr. Emma
Culbertson is added to the staff of dispensary
physicians.  There is only a small debt re
maining.

    The student whom the John Hopkins univer-
sity refused because she was a woman, Martha
Cary Thomas, of Baltimore, has just received
the degree of Ph. D. summa cum laude,the fourth
and highest degree which the University of Zu-
rich can bestow.  Think of America sending
her Republican daughters to the heart of Eu-
rope to receive their degrees of lofty scholar-
ship!  Think of Europe emerging from her
mediaevalism before America!  Think of the
universities of Switzerland, of Italy, of Austria,
of Sweden, of France, shaming Columbia and
Harvard!


﻿Aloft on the throne of God, and not below,
in the footprints of a trampling multitude, are
the sacred rules of right, which no majorities
can displace or overturn.—Charles Sumner.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   .   .   Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each s nare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, in  brick building north or Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
	EMILY FAITHFUL’S BOOK.
	“And that mine adversary had written a
book,” exclaimed Job in his affliction, but we
have no reason to apply this to ourselves in the
present day, for it sesms to be a very common
occurrence for the enemies of truth to write a
book. Each author seems to think that some-
thing will be done by Congress if they set forth
in forcible language and thrilling incident “the
horrors of Mormonism.”
	When it was understood here that Miss
Faithful would write a book, it was thought
by many who had mether and heard her speak,
and by those who were somewhat acquainted
with her work in the cause of reform, that she
would at least deal honestly and fairly with
Utah.  She came here and accepted the courie 
sles and attentions of the “Mormon” people; she
gave her “lecture on Modern Shams” in the Salt
Lake Theatre to an almost entire "Mormon” au-
dience.  She strongly denounced the hypocri-
sies, extravagances, subterfuges and frauds prac-
ticed in the great world,—therefore, how could
one suppose she would pander to the present
vitiated taste of modern society for sensational
matter, or join in the hue and cry against those
of whom sha knew so little, before she had thor-
oughly investigated the subject.
	Miss Faithful was here a few days, she was
suffering from asthma, so that she was unable
to see much that would have been interesting
to a casual traveler; yet she writes of Salt Lake
City and the citizens as though she had been a
dweller in their midst, and knew whereof she
wrote.
	Miss Faithful’s book is entitled “Three Visits
To America,” and contains four hundred pages
of reading matter, and judging of her by her
literary ability and prestige one would not ex-
pect she could so far forget her womanly honor,
as to publish falsehoods; and knowing that the
two chapters she has devoted to Utah contain
so much that is untrue,how can one who knows,
that, accept other matter as positive in facts
and descriptions.
	 The XI and XII chapters of the book are devo-
ted to “Mormon”themes; opening with Brigham
Young’s entrance to the valley, and Miss F.
writes: “No wonder that the keen eye of the
'Prophet’ at once discerned his opportunities and
that he resolved to build up his Zion in this fer-
tile spot.” If Miss Faithful had traveled across
the barren plains with tired and worn-out ox-
teams and arrived here weary and foot-sore only
to find a desert of sage brush and alkali—with
no one to greet her save the half-naked savages,
and the howling of ravenous wolves, she would
be able to make a more truthfal statement.  We
speak from knowledge and we know whereof wa
assert; desolate and uninteresting were these
now delightful vales at the advent of the Saints.
But let that misrepresentation pass, it scarce de-

[Column 2]
serves mention, it has been so oft repeated by
the villifiers of that inspired man, Brigham
Young.
	Miss Faithful speaks of having been invited
to the party given in honor of the anniversary
of Sister Eliza Snow’s eightieth birthday, and
goes on to relate what transpired there as though
she had really been present.  The fact is she
was not even invited at all, the invitations be-
ing strictly confined to Latter-day Saints.  She
knows what the local papers published concern-
ing the happy event, and no more. However,
she was, as she says, invited to a luncheon party
at the Gardo House, the residence of President
John Taylor, but the conversation she relates as
having taken place there, has been conjured up
by her own vivid imagination.  Sister Eliza,
she says, made an effort for her conversion
which is utterly erroneous; but that is a mere
trifle and not worthy a moment’s consideration,
but she goes on to say, “Opposite me sat
Joseph F. Smith, nephew of the “Mormon”
founder, and next to him a lady from Stockport
sealed to President Taylor for the life that now
is and that which is to come.  Both of them al-
luded openly to their relationship, and regretted
I did not see the value of forming associations
which would last throughout eternity.”
	To those who know President Taylor this is
the veriest nonsense, and would require no con-
tradiction.  But in defense of truth and to show
how utterly false her statements are, we em-
phatically declare the whole thing a myth con-
ceived in her own brain, for what effect or pur-
pose is best known to herself, no such conversa-
tion was heard by any one.  There were several
gentlemen and ladies present, who were aston-
ished and amazed when they saw her book’ that
she could make so unfounded an assertion and
publish it as truth, aud while openly depre-
cating shams and frauds of all kinds, should her-
self be guilty of palming off upon a sensational
public such a consummate sham and maliciuos
falsehood. What she expects by wilfully tra-
ducing and falsifying those who never did her
any harm, but sought to show her kindnes and
courtesy, is difficult to imagine, and when one
considers the pretended claims she makes to a
reformer and an agitator of the rights of all man-
kind, and recalls the statements made in her 
lecture, one is sorely puzzled to understand her
motives, for she says at the close of her book:
“She that lifts up the manhood of the poor,
She of the open heart and opon door,
With room about her knees for all mankind.”
What construction can one put upon Miss Faith-
ful’s statements except that she has joined
hands with the civilizers and regenerators of
Utah, those who denounce virtue in Mormons
and applaud vice in those who seek its over-
throw?
	Miss Faithful speaks of the petition signed by
nearly 500 women and sent to Congress—which
denounced Brigham Young in what she terms,
“these remarkable words:”
	“Never in this world will the history of these
dark deeds be written, for the victim and wit-
ness of many a tragedy are hidden together in
the grave”—and again she says—“The history
of his reign—for it is nothing else—is written in
characters of blood.” She has also stated that
numbers of those who signed the document had
a “personal and bitter experience of the practical
workings of polygamy.” These apostate ladies
know this thing to be utterly false and infa-
mously cruel, thus to desecrate the memory of
the dead, when they put their names to that pe-
tition, if they were aware of its contents, and it
is to their condemnation and they must answer
the consequences hereafter.  Women who were
intimately acquainted with Brigham Young (so
we have been informed) signed that petition,

[Column 3]
and they knew it to be untrue in their hearts
they had been partakers of his liberality, had
been numbered among his friends, had mingled
in his society at the very time when they de-
clare his hands imbued with blood.  How dare
they allow their lips to utter or sanction these
vile and infamous stories?  Are there not thou-
sands to testify against them?  Their treachery
and cruelty is equal to that of traitors, lost to all
sense of honor.  
	Alas, should they provoke the bloody conflict
they seem anxious to bring about, and bring
down the indignation of the Congress they so I
imploringly besech, would they be guiltless of
innocent blood?  Are they not satisfied when
they see innocent men and womancast into pris- 
on for the practice of the religion which they so
devoutly believe?  It seems incredible that wom-
an possossed of the motherly instinct inherent
in her mother nature, could ba incited to take
part in such a diabolical scheme.  That Miss
Faithful, whose name has been heralded the
world over as a reformer, should take up the
cudgel against an inoffensive, industrious, hard-
working but persecqted people, after a few days'
visit, and join hands with those who are
combined to destroy the peace, happiness and
prosperity of Utah and her people, is indeed
strange, the political clique, the self-styled liber-
al party, and that she,an Englishwoman, should
appeal to the Congress of the United States.
	To refer to all the malignant falsehoods about 
“Mormons” this book coutains would take too
much space, but as we were requested by the
publishers in' New York to criticize and send
marked copy of the paper, we have touched up-
on a few of the misrepresentations in the two
chapters named, and believing there are honest
people who may read the book and be deceived
by it, it becomes an imperative duty, in the in-
terest of truth and justice, to contradict some
of the false, wicked and slanderous assertions 
made therein.


RUDGER CLAWSON'S SPEECH. 

	The court was duly opened at 10 o'clock. 
	Mr. Dickson (addressing the court) said:  This
was the hour appointed, if your honor please
for judgment in the case of the United States, 
versus Clawson. 
	Mr. Harkness—We know of no reason why
your honor should not proceed to pass judg-
ment. 
	Mr. Bennett—I wish to state to your honor
that in the matter of moving for a new trial we
have, after mature consideration and delibera-
tion, decided not to make such a motion, but to
rely upon our bill of exceptions.  
	The Judge altered his minutes accordingly.  
	Judge Zane then said—Mr. Clawson:  Will you
stand up, if you please?
	Mr. Clawson thereupon stood up and stepped
to the clerk's desk.  
	Judge Zane then said—You were indicted in
this court upon an indictment charging that you
have been guilty of polygamy on the days
named in the indictment by marrying Lydia
Spencer while your former wife, Florence Ann
Clawson, was still living.  In the second count
of that indictment you were charged with un-
lawfully cohabiting with two, Florence Ann
Clawson and Lydia Spencer.  To that indict-
ment you entered a plea of not guilty, and the
jury was sworn to try the issue, and after hear-
ing the evidence, and argument of counsel, 
found you guilty on both counts of the indict-
ment.  Have you any legal cause to show why
judgement should not be pronounced upon you?
	Mr. Clawson.—Your honor, since the jury that
recently sat on my case have seen proper to find 
a verdict of guilty, I have only this to say why


judgment should not be pronounced. I very
much regret that the laws of my country should
come in contact with the laws of God; but when
ever they do I shall invariably choose the latter.
If I did not so express myself I should feel un
worthy of the cause I represent. The Constitu-
tion of the United States expressly states that
Congress ahall make no law respecting an es-
tablishment of religion or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof. It cannot be denied, I think,
that maraiage,when attended and sanctioned by
religious rites and ceremonies is an establish-
ment of religion. The law of 1862 and the Ed-
munds law were expressly designed to operate
against marriage as practiced and believed in by
the Latter-day Saints. They are therefore un-
constitutional, and of course cannot command
the respect that a constitutional law would.
That is all I have to say, your honor.
	Judge Zane, it is said by those present, seemed
much surprised at Mr. Clawson’s speech and
it was some little time before he spoke; after
making quite a lengthy speech upon the evils of
polygamy and strongly asserting that the law
against it must be executed, Judge Zane pro-
nounced the following sentence upon Eider
Clawson.
	“I shall,therefore,fix your punishment, on the
first count for polygamy, by a fine of $500, and
imprisonment for the term of three years and six
months, and on the second count, for unlawful
cohabitation, I will fix your fine at $300, and
your imprisonment at six months, the imprison-
ment in the last count of the indictment to be-
gin at the termination of the imprisonment on
the first count. The judgment will be entered
by the clerk accordingly.”
	The judge refased to admit Rudger Clawson
to bail,although he has since admitted others to
bail accused of a most heinous crime. Such is
the consistency of those who execute the laws
against the Mormons. Elder Clawson, inno-
cent of sin, was committed to prison the same
evening and put with criminals guilty of the
blackest crimes. But God judgeth all and He
will take care of His servants who are willing
to keep his laws and abide by His command-
ments.
	On Friday, Nov. 14, Bro, Clawson came to the
city to attend the Supreme Court, having been
brought there on a writ of habeas corpus ob-
tained for that purpose. The case was argued
during the day, but not finished. Mr. Kirk.
patrick, it is said, made one of the most mas- 
terly and learned speeches that has ever been
made in the Third District Court Boom. Bishop
Clawson requested that his son be permitted to
remain at home over night, stating that a dep-
uty could accompany him and remain with him
over night, but the request, simple as it was,
was not complied with, and he was obliged to go
back for the night. This morning he was
brought up again, but is not likely to ba admit-
ted to bail, as the oflicers seem inexorable when
any favors are asked in this class of cases.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	THE MASS MEETING IN THE
	THEATRE.

	A vast assembly filled the Salt Lake Theatre
Monday evening, Nov. 3rd, at the grand mass
meeting of the People's Party held in the inter-
est of the election. At the opening hour the as-
sembly was called to order by Hon. Angus M.
Cannon, who nominated Mayor James Sharp as
chairman. Mr. Sharp was unanimously elected.
Hon. A. M. Cannon was chosen vice-chairman
and H. M. Wells secretary. The chairman in-
troduced the first speaker of the evening,
	HON JOHN T. CAINE,
"Utah's present delegate, to Congress, and the
People's nominee for re-election to that office.

[Column 2]
He came forward amid applause, and proceeded
to deliver an elaborate, exhaustive and eloquent
address, setting forth the views and principles of
the People's Party, as opposed to those of the so-,
called “Liberal” organization.
	“Local self-government was the main pillar of
the platform upon which he,as the People's can-
didate, stood, and a Legislative Commission with
the utter abolishment of that sacred right, was
the only plank in the “Liberal” platform. He
proposed to analyze this infamous proposition,
and expose its unconstitutionality, its utter
foreignessto American institutions and the spir-
it of Anglo Saxon ideas. He traced the record
of American history in vain for a precedent to
justify the abolition of local self-government, a
right guaranteed by the Constitution and the
genius of our institutions, and after referring to
events in English history, without finding,how-
ever a parallel of the kind, turned to the dark
ages of tryanny and despotism in search of it;
ages of crime, ignorance and oppression, of
which civilization to-day was everywhere
ashamed. He asked, If Utah could be thus
stricken down, what safety would there be for
other Territories? The Edmunds law was re-
ferred to and its fallure attributed to its proper
source, viz: the unconstitutionality of the mea-
sure itself and its partial administration,whereby
12,000 polygamists had been disfranchised at a
blow, while sexual sinners outside the Mormon
community were left untouched. Now, more
oppressive legislation was called for, which
showed that polygamy was not the real object of
assaults of the Liberals and their sympathizers
but the punishment of the Mormons for a mere
belief.”
	He closed amid loud applause, by which also
the delivery of his speech was attended at fre-
quent intervals.
	Speeches were afterwards made by Hon. S. R.
Thurman and Hon. W. N. Dusenberry of
Provo, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Hon. F. S. Richards,
M. Isabella Horne and Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon.
The speeches were all good and to the point,and
we are very sorry we cannot publish them in
full. Sister Horne brought down the house
when shs said “how would the judges and law-
yers who are so eager to question the sisters like
it if their wives and daughters were brought in-
to court to testify against them, though she be-
lieved they could tell plenty if they would.”
Prest. Cannon, among many other good things,
said, “Before Constitutions were written there
were laws and principles written on the hearts
of human beings. Magna Charts and the Con-
stitution of the United States are only the ex-
pression of principles as old as eternity. We
know what the principle of liberty are, we
know when we are oppressed, if we had never
heard of the Magna Charta or the American
Constitution.” Bro. Cannon's speech was full of
grand and lofty sentiments, one to arouse the
spirit of patriotism in the hearts of all who love
liberty and hate oppression.
	At the close of the meeting the following res-
olution was adopted
	Resolved, That the representatives of the
People’s Party in mass meeting assembled re-af-
firm the principles of the People's platform
adopted two years ago,and ratify the nomination
of Hon. John T. Caine for delegate from this
Territory to the Forty-ninth Congress of the
United States.


[Column 1]
	LETTER TO AN OUTSIDER.

	Oct.	21st., 1884.
MY DEAR COUSIN:		
	Without further preliminary than just to say 
that your letter found myself and family well,

[Column 2]
and also that this leaves us in the enjoyment of
good health, I will plunge immediately into the
subject we are discussing.
	You say that viewing it only from our spiritu-
al standpoint you can see nothing wrong in our
practice of polygamy, but viewing it in a tem-
poral way it changes its aspect; that the deg-
radation, misery and unhappiness it subject
those to who practice it must quite overbalance
all the blessings they can hope to attain in the
future by an adherence to its laws in this life.
	Now, no principle can be spiritually right and
temporally wrong; and if polygamy does not add
to a man's temporal welfare it will not yield
him spiritual blessings. If it tends to aid him
in his spiritual existence, it will also add comfort
to his temporal life; if, as you say, it brings to
thoso who practice it only discontent, degrada-
tion and misery, then it is spiritually, morally,
and legally wrong. But, I ask, does it produce
these evils we have mentioned? The world says
that it does, because the world knows nothing
about it;but we who live in it and have practiced
it for years know better. We assert that polyga-
my does not have these evils attending it,and we
ought to know. You may travel from one end
of Utah to the other and you will not find one
family who is living in this order and is subser-
vient to the laws of God prescribed to them by
Him through His servants, who have unhappi-
ness in their midst. On the contrary, they are
freer from the evils of discontent and other trou-
bles than any I know who are living in monog-
omy, and if any are unhappy in this order it is
because they have failed to render obedience to
these laws I have mentioned.
	You say that where the man who marries
more wives than one is rich or well-to-do it may
soften the rugged appearance of this principle
a little, and were the practice of it confined to
those only who are able to maintain their wives
above the reach of want it would be more in
keeping with righteousness.
	I answer, that if polygamy savors of unright-
eousness and is a producer of evils, no amount
of wealth can help the matter any or eradicate
its evils. If it has advantages and blessings
that may be bestowed upon the rich man and
denied to the poor, then I must own it is not a
principle of heaven, for our Father is not so par-
tial as to bestow a portion of His Gospel upon
the rich to the exclusion of the poor. But let
us see whether plural marriage [---] not bestow
its happiness and advantages upon the family of
the poor man and add much to their temporal
welfare.
	I will tell you of a few facts that have come
under my observation that you may understand
the idea I wish to convey—facts that I have
learned from the very poorest of polygamic
families in Utah. One of these, with whom I
became acquainted about sixteen years ago, con-
sisted of the man, two wives and seven child-
ren. They were the poorest family at the time I
speak of that I ever saw, I think; but despite
their poverty, I think they were the happiest,
too, and I wondered that this could be so. Two
or three years after my first acquaintance with
them the man took a third wife, a young girl
seventeen years of age, and I said to myself,
“How will he ever keep the wolf from the door
with these three wives and ten children claim-
ing his support, etc." The scanty means he
possessed when I first knew them had wonder-
fully increased, but then the family had in-
creased most rapidly as well, so at the time the
addition was made to his family that I speak of,
the means for their support was still very mea-
gre indeed, that is the way I considered it, but
neither the man nor his wives seemed to mani-
fest any fear of starvation.
	They all occupied the same dwelling, in fact I
do not think he could possibly have furnished a


separate home for each had they desired to live
separate from each other, which they did not
wish to do, as I learned when once, in visiting
them, I ventured to question them as to whether
they did not think it would be more congenial
to their feelings if they lived in separate homes.
The first wife answered me, saying, "Oh, no, we
could not think of living separate,  even if the
command of God to His people was not to unite
themselves and families together and be of one
heart and mind, our own speculative genius
would prompt us to unite our efforts to better se-
cure advantages in making means, saving time
and lightening our labors."
	I asked her to explain how this was done. She
said: "It takes very little more time to cook a
meal for ten than it does for five, and in like pro-
portion is all the general housework for a family
decreased when the efforts of those to be cared
for are united for the accomplishment of it. By
each of us caring for one certain part or division
of work at a time, we save a great deal of labor
and time; by eating at one table less food is re-
quired than if we eat at three tables; besides
there is a saving of fuel, as one dwelling is
warmed with less wood than it takes to warm
three. We combine three washdays in one with
less labor and soap than if we made three of it.
	We have kept an account of the proceeds
gained by this management, and from it we
have been enabled this year to buy that sewing
maching, besides providing oursleves and chil-
dren with many little luxuries that poor men
cannot think of furnishing their families. The
time gained by this unity of labor gives us an
opportunity of reading many good books which
the wives of poor, laboring men seldom think of
taking time to read."
	"Well," I ventured again to say, "since you
are already united to one man, I see you are tak-
ing the wisest plan you could to get along. Bus
do you not think you would have been just at
well off in the way of means and been more
happy if you had not entered into this system,
but had enjoyed your husband's society by your-
self?"
	"Well," she said, "we might have been just
as well off, perhaps better in the way of means,
though I doubt it; but I know I could not have
been so happy as I am had my husband not tak-
en other wives, for many reasons."
	This good woman gave me many reasons, and
plausible ones, too, why she had desired and
maintained polygamy in her husband's house,
two or three of which I will rehearse to you,as to
mention more of them would be superfluous at
this time and make my letter too lengthy. She
said:
	"I was always a timid creature, and during
the early years of my married life,, whenever my
husband's duty called him from home, which it
frequently did, for a few days, the nights during
his absence were nights of sleepless terror for
me. Being of a social nature, and having al-
ways enjoyed the society of sisters at home, I
pined for the companionship of another woman
in my own house. Further, my first children
were cross and fretful, and the care of them
wore upon my health a great deal. I rightly
attributed the irritableness of their dispositions
to the never ending cares which, owing to our pe-
cuniary circumstances, were necessarily heaped
upon me during pregnancy; since my husband
brought his other wives home, we in turn re-
lieve each other from the cares of the household
and hard labor during this period of womanhood
and we are left to seek only that light labor and
diversion that pleases us best at that time; the
result is, the children born to us now, the other
women as well as myself, are peaceful, healthy,
happy and good natured children, which is a
more glorious boon to me than all the world's
wealth would be."
	Ah, I thought, is this not one of the keys
to the mystery as to why the homes of the
polygamous Mormons are filled with such rosy
faced, intelligent children as are seen nowhere
else? And this is a fact that has been noticed
and commented upon by almost every person
who has taken a peep into the homes of the
Utah polygamists, and many have wondered
that this degrading system, as they called it,
would produce such offspring.
	"And now," this woman continued, "should
Congress pass, and the government enforce a
law upon us that would tear my husband's
wives and children from him and me, then will
the light and happiness be gone from this house
and from my life entire, for they are near to me
as my own"
	I was for a time a boarder in this family, and
I wish I could have taken you with me there in-
to that home and shown you the system that
ruled there; you would have learned that the
idea that you and many others have imbibed
that a glimpse merely into the heart of a polyg-
amous household would sicken you of wishing
to become further initiated into its practices, is
simply a very erroneous idea. At six o'clock I
wind my way to the kitchen, where I find one
of the wives who, with the assistance of the eld-
est daughter, is preparing the breakfast for
the twenty-two members- including hired men
and boarders. Another wife is arousing the mi-
nor members of the family and washing and
dressing and making neat those of her children
who are not large enough to attend to this duty
themselves. "Her children," you say. Yes,
they are all hers this morning. I can see no dif-
ference in the care that each receives from her
hands. Beds are being aired and made, rooms
swept and dusted, by another. All this work
is completed by 7:30, when the bell sounds,
which brings every member of this family into
the dining room-the best room in the house-
for prayers and breakfast. The father leads in
prayer, a soul-inspiring petition to God for His
protection and peace to be with his family. I
wish I could repeat it all to you here. As soon
as breakfast is over the busy girls carry out the
dishes, and they are soon washed and the kitch-
en put in order under the direction of the house-
keeper. The milk is carried to the cellar and
the butter looked after by another  of busy
hands, and at ten o'clock, which is their usual
hour for rest and reading, we find the work of
these families has been done and no one has
been obliged to work herself weary, and each
one  ready to take up her paper, book or pen as
she sees fit, for an hour's diversion.
	Now, I've given you no fancy picture, it is one
of real life in Utah, and from it you can see that
polygamy is a benefit to the poor, temporally.
	And now can you wonder, as you say you have
done, that the women of Utah cling so tena-
cously to this principle of their faith, when they
could so easily rid themselves of its sighs and
burdens?
	Realizing, as they do, its beneficial influence
upon their families, and the strong ties by which
it unites the members of a household, it is not
to be wondered at that they show themselves as
ready to step forward and, if it is necessary, give
up liberty, or even life, in defense of it, as the
men are. To deprive them of the free exercise
of the principles of their faith, including that of 
polygamy, is to deprive them of that which
makes life bright and enjoyable, and they know
it; hence they meet with a determined resist-
ance every attempt of malicious, designing men
to snatch from them these blessings, and there-
by overthrow their happiness. They realize
hat to abolish they system of plural marriage is
to tear down and throw away the shield that the
Almighty has prepared for the protection of
their race from the awful evils that exist in the
nations, and must still exist through a coming
age, unless the women of the nations are made
to see the awful brink of destruction they are
standing upon the verge of.
	Testimonies of numbers of the women of Utah
of their belief and experience in the polygamy have
been published in the EXPONENT, several num-
bers of which you have received and probably, 
read. I feel that it is not necessary to add more
as my letter is laready lengthy.
	Hoping that you may receive what I have
written in the spirit is intended and with un-
biased judgement,
	I am, as ever, your cousin,
							Mc.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PATTY SESSIONS. 
[Continued.]
 On the 1st day of August Sister Sessions at-
tended the funeral of Bishop Knight. On the
4th went to the Relief Society where they had
a very good meeting, and afterwards attended
a prayer meeting. On the 6th she went with
Sister Chase to the Prophet Joseph’s and had
a good visit; the same day the Free Masons
went over the river. The Sunday following
Lyman Wight preached, and called for a con-
tribution to help Bro. George Miller to go to
the pine country. 8th, Bro, Joseph and Porter
Rockwell were made prisoners by the Missou-
rians on suspicion; they leave them in the hands
of the city marshall and have gone back to
Quincy. The next day she feels very much
cast down, not knowing what the result of the
arrest will be, but she sees the Prophet Joseph
and he appear cheerful. At night a guard
was sent, and she speaks of her son Peregrine
being one. 10th, “Bro. Joseph and Porter
missing; the sheriffs return.” 12th, “Sheriffs
here yet.” Then she writes she was making
shirts for Bro. Joseph. 13th, she receives a
letter from her husband, dated July 12th, from
the State of Maine. 16th, the sheriffs have
gone home.
On the 17th she speaks of attending a sis-
ter with a still-born child, and says it was the
first case of the kind she had ever had in more
than thirty years practice. Day after day
Sister Sessions, according to her diary, goes
out among the sick, and helps to lay out the
dead as well as officiating in her calling as a 
midwife.
On the 29th she rode out with her son David
to see the pottery and steam mill; says, too,
that she saw the Prophet ride by, going to at-
tend a special conference; this was the first
time she had seen him since he was missing, 
and her heart rejoiced to see him. 31st, she
speaks of a visit from Sisters Hyde and John-
son. Sept. 1st she speaks of going to Mr.
Marks’ and finding Martha and her babe both
very sick. On the 4th she speaks of attending
meeting, and a letter was read from Bro.
Joseph, who had gone away again because the
sheriffs were after him. Again and again she
she speaks of Mother Smith visiting her and
often stopping over night. On the 8th she
went to the funeral of a child, where Sidney
Rigdon preached. On the 11th went to meet-
ing, heard two letters, read from Bro. Joseph
Smith. On the 14th she attended the Relief
Society and afterwards went to a meeting at
Sister Leonards’; Sister Dooty and other sis-
ters were there, and they had a blessed time.
The 24th she speaks of as training day, and 
says Sister Buel was at her house. On Sunday,
Oct. 3rd, went to meeting and Sidney Rigdon
preached. She often speaks of her visits to
the sick, and of taking them something to
nourish them. On the 5th she went to see


Sister Emma Smith and found her very sick.
On the 6th she mentions,Sister Mileken and
Perry had been visiting her; the same day she
received a letter from her husband, which gave
her great joy. On the 9th she writes, Windsor
Lyon, her daughter’s husband, went to St.
Louis to purchase goods. On the 23rd Sister
Sessions went to see a sick woman, Dr. Brisle
was there, and she writes, “In my opinion he
officiated contrary to nature, or right, or rea-
son.” 31st she speaks of going to the Temple
to meeting. Speaks of going to Bro. Miliken’s
and finding Lucy, his wife; very sick. On the
6th of November Bro. Sessions returned
from his mission, and she rejoiced that all their
lives had been spared to meet again. On the
27th Sister Sessions having been called to at-
tend a sick woman, went through the severe
cold and froze her hands and toes. On the 7th
of December Bro. Orson Hyde, who had been
away, came home. On the 13th she was very
sick, the Prophet came and laid hands on her
and she was healed. From that time she
speaks of Joseph having visited-at her house
almost daily. On the 24th she says Sister Syl-
via Lyons had a little son born, but it only
lived twelve hours. "January 15th,” she says,
“Brother Joseph preached in his own house.
On the 17th it was fast day, and appointed to
give thanks for Joseph’s being set at liberty.
Bro. Orson Hyde preached,and she says it was
a day long to be remembered.
	On the 20th the says Orson Pratt and his
wife were re-baptized, and on the 22nd, Sab-
bath day, Bro. Joseph preached in the Temple
about baptism for the remission of sins. On
the 28th she speaks of Bro. Sessions being ill,
and Bro Joseph Smith and Orson Hyde came
and laid hands upon him. 29th, she says she
went to meeting; Bro. Joseph preached in the
Temple a sermon upon the Prodigal Son. On
the 12th of February she says Bro. Joseph was
at her house, and Mr. Lyons, Sylvia’s husband,
lent him five hundred dollars. She went to
Bro. William Hyde’s—his wife had a daughter.
On the 25th she says she visited, with Sisters
Hyde, Nobles, and Miss Louisa Beamen,at her
daughter’s, Sylvia Lyons. On the 6th of
April she attended the General Conference,
which lasted three days. On the 10th she
writes again that Sisters Hyde, Price, Browett
and herself, visit at her daughter Sylvia’s. “On
the 12th,” she says, "the first steamboat came
up the river" (for the season she means, I pre-
sume). On the 13th she says Parley P Pratt’s
family arrived, and her son Peregrine started
again for the State of Maine. June 25th she
went to meeting and Lyman Wight preached,
and she heard that Bro. Joseph was taken
prisoner again.
	The day following she called on Mother
Smith, and at that time paid to Prest. Joseph
Smith’s clerk, Bro. William Clayton , $10.25
towards the Temple. This was a very small
sum compared to the amount Sister Sessions
has since given toward Temple building, for it
has been her  happy lot to give a very great
deal to the different Temples that have been
built.
	On the 30th she says Bro. Joseph is at home
again; she went to see him, and then heard
him address the people from the stand after-
wards; it was a time of great joy and rejoicing.
"July 1st, Joseph had his trial to-day. July
4th, Bro. Joseph is free again, and many peo-
ple have come from afar to -day. Three steam-
boats landed. 29, Sister P. P. Pratt and Olive
Frost were here. August 11th, Judge Adams
died at 10 o’clock in the evening. On the 
13th she says she went to hear Bro. Joseph
preach Bro. Higbee’s funeral sermon. There
were some complaints against individuals, and
the Church withdrew fellowship from
Sidney Rigdon. This was a very im-
portant event in the Church, although,
probably, very little was thought about


it at the time. 17th, Brothers P. P.
Pratt and Orson Hyde started east. 18th
went to the Relief Society. Sister Sessions
adds here, "Almost every day I have been to
visit the sick for a very long time.” Sept. 1st
she went to the trial of Bro. Adams. On the
2nd she says she went to the Relief Society and
gave $6.75 to the poor. Ten weeks before she
gave 50.cts.
	Thus we see how Sister Sessions bestowed of
her means. Oct. 3rd she took dinner at the
Prophet Joseph’s, and on the 6th Semi-Annual
Conference convened and she attended; it lasted
three days. On the 9th of November she
says Sidney Rigdon preached. Judging from
this he must have been re-instated again by
that time. On the 21st she speaks of Joseph
preaching again—she speaks of many people
whose names we are very familiar with. On
the 8th of February her daughter, Sylvia
Lyons, was confined with a daughter. On the
8th she says she sent money to St. Louis to
buy a stove, which was quite an event in those
says, for the people had a hard struggle in
Nauvoo, partly on account of sickness"and
other circumstances, which kept them from be-
coming as prosperous as their thrift and energy
would otherwise have rendered them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿GENERAL MEETING Y. L. & P.A.

	Nov. 1st the semi-monthly meeting convened
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. After singing prayer was
offered by Mrs. Esther B. Fletcher. Singing
again. Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved, and minutes of Y. L. were read from
the 10th, 20th, 3rd, 8th, 19th and 7th Wards;
also P. A. minutes from the 20th, 2nd, 19th,
17th, 21st and 15th Wards.
	Prest. Horne then spoke for some time; re-
ferred to the excellent minutes that had been
read and the good instruction they contained.
Thoug humility was one of the virtues we
should cultivate, and improve our abilities and
opportunities, never neglecting any duty how-
ever small, and live near to the Lord that we
may always have His Spirit. Spoke very ably
upon the election, and urged the sisters to go
to the polls, those who were entitled to the
privilege, and also to attend the political rati-
fication meeting in the theatre on Monday
evening.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the political
position of Utah to-day, and urged the sisters
to remember Bro. Rudger Cawson in their
prayers and exercise faith that he might be set
at liberty.
	Mrs. E. B. Fletcher poke of her anxiety for
the yoath of Zion, her interest in the Primary
and Y. L. Mrs. Phebe Woodruff spoke in regard
to veting—that it was as much a duty as to
pray. Exhorted the sisters to be humble and
prap for those in authority for they are ex-
posed to great danger.
	Mrs. Mary Freeze said, it appeared that our
enemies were trying to crush us, but if all were
of her opinion it would be necessary to build
more prisons if they intend to send men and
women there for the practice of celestial mar-
riage. Spoke of having attended the Clawson
trial, and how her blood boiled with indigna-
tion, but she knew they would have to reap
what they had sewn.
	Mrs. Lucy Kimball said she felt like the
last speaker, that our enemies wished to crush
us; but they had undertaken more than they
had imagined, for while we are willing to obey
the commandments of God and live up to
every principle He has revealed, we will find
Him our friend.
	Prest. Horne made closing remarks, and the
meeting was adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. E. S.
Taylor.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Sister Talitha C. Avery is our energetic and
worthy president of this place. The sisters of
the Relief Society got up a surprise for her on
the 22nd of Sept., it being the sixtieth anni-
versary of her birthday. At twelve o’clock a
bounteous dinner was prepared in the school-
house; when all was ready Sister Avery was in-
vited in; she was very much surprised to see so
many sitting down to four long tables filled
with the good things of the earth; about one
hundred partook of the sumptuous repast. Af-
ter dinner was over the tables were cleared
away and meeting was opened by singing and
prayer, after which songs, speeches, dialogues,
also a piece of poetry composed and read for
the occasion by Sister Esther Grange and an
acrostic by Sister Maria J. Wakefield; the
martial band also enlivened us with several
cheering tunes. A nice rug was then presented
by the sisters of the Society to Sister Avery,
with several other presents. The evening was
spent in dancing, social conversation, etc. It
was quite a joyful time, and will be long re-
membered by those who participated therein.
	Praying for the success of your valuable pa-
per as an exponent of truth and a vindicator
of our rights, I subscribe myself,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE M. ALGER.
Huntington.


PRIMARY YEARLY CONFERENCE.

	The three districts of the Primary Associa-
tion of Lehi City held a yearly conference
Oct. 18, 1884, President Caroline Ball presid-
ing. The exercises of the children were very
creditably rendered, exhibiting the effect of
careful training. We noticed a marked im-
provement from one year ago in the excellent
order of the children. One highly pleasing
feature was the “Tennessee Massacre,” recited by
a young lady; the singing was excellent, also
the exercises of the boys as well as the girls,
considering them, as we do, true indications of
future usefulness. It was plainly manifest that
the presidents and counselors of the several
districts had won the hearts of those children,
which is the key to success in moulding and
guiding in the right direction. Love is the
ruling power in these Associations. After the
exercises were gone through, Sisters A. K.
Smoot and Mary Johns of Provo addressed the
children, giving good instruction.
	After the meeting there followed a fair, which
showed the handy work of the children and
what they could accomplish by a little patience
and perseverance. They had a great variety
of fancy work, such as mats, tidies, dresses,
quilts, etc. There was a beautiful shawl of Ber-
lin wool made by a young lady eleven years of
age. The boys did their part in carpenter work
and agriculture; the carpenter work being put
together with much care. There was one arti-
cle which drew the attention of many, it was a
locomotive made by a young boy fourteen. The
agricultural products were fine.
	SARAH ANN BALL, Sec.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On Saturday, Nov. 8, we had the pleasure of
attending the annual meeting of the Primary
Association of the Eleventh Ward of this city, 
Mrs. Louie B. Felt presiding; singing, "In the 
Chambers of the Mountains;" prayer by the Miss
Minnie Coult, one of the little girls; singing,
"Gather up the Sunbeams." Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved. Exercises
then commenced: Essay on "Obedience," by


Miss Sarah —; recitation, Miss Jane
Coult; Duet, "Only an Armor-bearer,” Misses
Lizzie and Etta Parsons; Recitation by Climise
Lawson; Song by Master John Donelson; Reci-
tation, Counselor Nettie Leaker, a child’s piece;
Address, Master George Coulam; Song by Miss
Polly Newson; Historical address by Miss Min-
nie Coult; Duet. “Whippoorwill,” by Misses
Laura Denney and Louie Felt (two very little
girls). Bible questions were answered by the
children in chorus.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters E. C
Clawson, M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor, E. B.
Wells, H.T. King, M. A. Freeze and Bishop
McRae. Benediction by one of the members.
The meeting was an excellent one in every
respect, there being about one hundred and fifty
children present. Refreshments were served
ofter the close of the meeting.

	On Tuesday, Nov. 11, Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. Howard and E. C. Clawson went to Sandy
to meet with the Relief Society and reorganize
the Primary. Two meetings were held, one
with the Relief Society and the other with the
children. Sister Clawson organized the Prim- 
ary with the following officers: Sister Hannah
Shaw, President; Jane Clark and Maggie Hew- 
lett, Counselors; Elizabeth Shaw, Secretary;
Ruth Lewis, Assistant Secretary; and Mary
Jano Lewis, Treasurer.

	While Sister. E. R. S. Smith was making a
tour through some of the settlements of Weber
Stake she visited Eden by special request, and
organized while there a Y. L. M. I. A. with Mar-
tha A. Ferron, President; Mary Jane Fuller
and Rosetta Larsen, Counselors; Elizabeth J.
Eggleston, Secretary; and Lucy L. Ferron,
Assistant Secretary; and Mary L. Eggleston,
Treasurer. 38 members were admitted.

	Thursday, Nov. 13th, Sister B. W. Smith
went to South Cottonwood and met with the
Primary at 11 a.m. Had a pretty good time,
and though there was no particular programme 
had a number of songs and recitations; alto-
gether they acquitted themselves very credit- 
ably. A number of the sisters spoke to them
and gave good counsel. Bro. Jones and another
brother spoke also. Sister Smith did her best
to encourage them; all felt that they had had
a good time and appeared satisfied with their
meeting.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society met.
Had a pretty good attendance. Sister Eliza
and others were expected, but could not come.
They had a very satisfactory report of the so-
ciety, had few sick and no poor to speak of.
They have a splendid hall of their own and are
furnishing it nicely. Sister B.W. Smith,
Prest. J. Y. Cahoon, Sisters Jones, Rawlins,
Pixton and two brethren addressed the meet-
ing. Expressed themselves as feeling well in
the Latter-day work.
	Sister Smith enjoyed the visit very much and
returned home tired, but happy, hoping she
had done some little good to her sisters and
the children.

	It is now very generally admitted that
Cleveland has a plurality of votes, and in all
probability his claims are established so far as
his party are able to ensure them to him. It
has been a closer contest though than either
party seemed to anticipate. What will trans-
pire between now and the 4th of March, 1885,
it is impossible to tell. One thing we know,
and that is, that there is a spirit of partyism
gaining ground in the United States that is
accompanied with such dire hatred and desire
for revenge as is not healthy to any nation or
people, and it has reached so great a height that
it seems likely to culminate in the same form 
in this broad Republic as in an absolute
monarchy, of which Pope wrote: “Uneasy
lies the head that wears a crown."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOW TO MAKE PICALILY.

	Chop large cucumbers, onions and cabbage and salt
them down for one night. In the morning draw off the 
brine and put all the articles to soak in weak vinegar
and water for two days; draw off again, mix the spice
in and boil five quarts of vinegar and five pounds of 
brown sugar, and pour on hot. Do this three mornings;
the third morning mix a teacup full of ground mustard, 
stir it well through the whole, put into a stone jar and 
cover securely.	M.G.W.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at her residence, in Tooele City, September 28th,
1884, Mrs. Mary C. De La Mar. She was baptized in the
[--]ll of 1849, by E'der William C. Dunbar in her native
land, the Island of Jersey, immigrated to the valley in
1852, and in 1853 removed to Tooele, where she has
been for many years identified as a practical Latter-day
Saint.
	She was called as teacher in the Relief Society in
1870, and in 1872 was chosen treasurer, which office she
held up to the time of her death, and by her integrity 
and uprightness won the confidence and love of all as-
sociated with her.
	She leaves a family of six living children and seven-
teen grandchildren, born and raised in plural marriage; 
and many times she has borne testimony of the truth
and purity of that holy principle.
	She has a son and son-in-law at present filling mis-
sions in Tennesee, but her faith was firm in God, and
she left them in His hands, knowing “all is well.”
	EMILY W.

	DIED in Fairview, July 11th, 1884, Nancy Emeline
Young, daughter of James M. and Mary A. Pritchett,
and wife of John Floyd Young. Sister Young was born
July 1st, 1842, in Rich Valley, Smith Co., Virginia, and
was baptised in 1858. Was married November 2nd, 1859-
came to Utah in 1865; moved to Fairview in Novem
ber, 1867.
	She was the mother or sixteen children, five of whom
died in infancy. She left a babe only a few hours old.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society almost from its
organization; always cheerful and willing to perform
the duties of her office in ministering to the wants of
the sick and needy.
	As a society and as friends we deeply sympathize
with her husband and family in their great loss, and
feel to commend them to our Heavenly Father, who
alone can comfort and sustain them.

	DIED, in Fairview, Aagust 30th, 1884, Florence Jane
Rees Young, born June 17th, 1850, in Smith Co., Vir-
ginia. Was married to Parley R Young October 30th,
1870, and came to Fairview the same year, where she re-
sided until her death.
	Sister Young had been a great sufferer for about ten
years. She died in the hope of a glorious resurrection,
leaving a husband, two daughters and many friends to
mourn her loss.
	LOIS ANN WILSON, Secretary.

	Catherine Lewis was born February, 1818, in London,
England; was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints August llth,l849, County Brackon,
South Wales. Immigrated to Utah July, 1871. She
died at her residence in Sandy, October 6th, 1884, at 6:10
a.m. She died as she had lived, a good, faithful Latter-
day Saint. She leaves a good husband, Phillip Lewis,
and eight children to mourn her loss.
	She attended Conference October 4th—was at two
meetings that day—took sick in the night, was admin-
istered to and came home Sunday evening and died
Monday morning, as stated.
	She was a member of the Relief Society, and held the
office of Counselor to the President from the organiza-
tion of the ward faithfully to the time of her death.
	W. O.


For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW,
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.         ''
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,      -    $1.00            ''
    ''         Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
               of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25       ''
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,-   1.50         ''
HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSRS, SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
						      engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 504.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY,. Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY, GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and COmplete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE_CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1884.					No. 13.


NEVER HOLD OUT A HAND TO THE
				DEVIL.

	“And when they say unto you, seek unto them who
have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep and
mutter, should not a people seek unto their God? For
the living to the dead?--ISAIAH, viii, 19.”
			If light we desire
			Oh, why not enquire
	Of the Lord, who is pleased to bestow it?
			Who shall bind you and me,
			Whom the truth maketh free,
			Bid the “Evil One” flee—
	Nor yield him an inch if we know it.

			Why bow to "the Prince
			Of the Air," or evince
	Respect for his pestilent legions,
			Or foolishly seek
			Those who mutter and peep,
			Or their company keep
	Who’re bound for the bottomelss regions?

			And wherefore be found
			On the arch-Tempter’s ground,
	Or bring ourselves down to his level?
			Lest “he sift us as wheat,"
			Or our ruin complete
			And esteem it a feat—
	Never hold out a hand to the devil;

			Because of the snares,
			Many sink unawares,
	And unwittingly fall in temptation.
			'Tis “the turn of the tide,"
			And the best must be tried;
			May we faithful abide,
	Nor stumble o'er ev'ry vexation.

			In the Mighty and Just
			May we evermore trust,
	He is equal to all that oppose Him;
			Let the vile do and say
			Whatsoever they may;
			For guidance we’ll pray,
	Till the Lord in His wrath overthrows them.

			Need we shrink from the storm
			Whilst we lean on His arm,
	Whose command, yea, whose whisper can quell it?
			Let the hurricane blow,
			For our pilot we know,
			When he wills thus or so
	There exists not a power can annul it.

			To mortals is given
			The priesthood of heaven;
	An organization efficient
			To triumphantly tread
			On the “Old Serpent’s” head;
			While we seek Him who said;
	“For the weakest my grace is sufficient."
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE


[first column]
MEDITATIONS ON THE PASSING
		YEAR--1884.
	BY HANNAH T. KING.

 Again we are approaching one of those re-
volving periods in the: Book of Time in which
the thinking mind takes a long breathing
space, and thought runs back through the
scenes passed in the three hundred and sixty-
five days comprising the past year. We are
brought to a pose, the heart and brain natu-
rally run back and gaze once again upon the
joys and sorrows—sickness and bereavements,
experience during the past year; and we can
not fail to recall the blessings also that have
attended us through all; so palpable have been
these that the hand of the Lord was revealed
through all; how He had sustained and com-
forted us in all our trials and afflictions; how
He had opened the hearts of friends to be es-
pecially kind to us, and to tender to us the help
or comfort that we stood in need of; how He
had made us especially to realize His words,
penned by one of His most inspired Prophets:
"Fear not, I am with thee, thou art mine!"
And under the inspiration of these words, the
sun of our system burst forth, shedding light
and warmth upon us, and we rose up and went
on our way rejoicing—we cast our eyes over
the beautiful world He had made for the resi-
dence of His creatures, human and animal, yet
even they have been studied that their tastes,
and appetites might be fully gratified. The
tiniest insect has not been forgotten or over-
looked by any means; if we take, the micro-
scope we can behold how busy the MAKER
hath been in fashioning its tiny organization, in
beautifying its minute body with royal colors,
the purple and the gold, in not leaving out any
attribute that would add pleasure to its ephe-
meral existence—all has been. freely lavished
on them and they are as independent in their
sphere as the potentate of humanity.
	Every one ought to possess a microscope,
that they might enter into a new world of
beauty and of wonder that would then be pre-
sented to their view. The means of human
knowledge is immense in this enlightened age,
but it mournfully tells us how ignorant we
are—yet ’tis true that we are wiser than we
know, there is a fund of intelligence hidden in
the human strata that requires a proper time
and a master hand to bring it forth. Who
would think for a moment that fire is contained
in the cold, opaque flint; had it not been dem-
onstrated? This is an appropriate simile to
thousands of beautiful hidden flowers. The
human intelligence has been developed marvel-
ously within the present century, and it gives
us an assurance that in the next we shall see
greater things than these, sending the present
discoveries into comparative insignificance; the
power of steam has been applied and brought
to its present perfection within the past fifty
years; electricity also being its necessary con-
comitant, with its startling effects; the electric
telegraph, the telephone, with their thrilling
developments, giving us the power to speak
with friends and loved ones a hundred miles
off, and they can hear our identical voice; and
then the sub-marine telegraph, that astound-
ing grasp of scientific ability; also the railroad
under the bed of the Thames, and the under-
ground railroad beneath the Metropolis of
England; the electric light—I might go on to
enumerate the saving of human labor by ma-
chinery of every sort, and then the half is not
told. Surely the mind must be obtuse indeed
that does not see the hand of the Great Arch-
itect of the Universe working with His agent
—man; realizing “there is a spirit in him,
but God giveth it inspiration.” Yet it is His
revelation that is flooding the human mind.
These are only the beginning of wonders, the
spirit of revelation broods over this mundane
sphere in this 19th century, bringing out the
latent powers of the human mind the God in
embryo hid up in that complex machine, the
human body, propelled by the “divinity that
stirs within it ” Religion and science are twin-
sisters, and will yet be so acknowledged.
Pass on, old year, we hail with joy the advent
of the new.


LA FEMME DE LAFAYETTE.

	The ancient French city of Puy has recent-
ly celebrated the inauguration of the statue of
General Lafayette. The orators who assisted in
the commemoration of this illustrious patriot
have not been able to give, in the history of
the General, but a part worthy of him, or
worthy of her, the noble consort and cheerful
participator of his diversified fortunes and
chequered career; and this for a two-fold rea-
son.
	Public speakers in celebrations of this kind
have not the time, neither again the question-
able taste to enter into the intimate relations
of the life of the heroes they eulogize; above
all when their public life offers a sufficient
subject as vast as it is’intricate; and then Mme.
de Lafayette was also as modest as she was
active in her devotedness; her virtue was too
sincere to admit the love of commendation; she
realized that she had but done her duty, even
when she pressed its accomplishment to the
acme of heroism. At all events, she believed
herself sufficiently recompensed by the love of
an adored husband—love of which he gave
such an eloquent proof in wishing to carry in-
to the tomb, placed upon his heart, as a title to
a re-union in the other life, the medallion con-
taining the portrait of her who had been an
admirable wife and an exemplary mother.
	This trait, so touching and but little known,
sufficed to attest in what estimation the Gen-
eral held this wife, the tender love of which
inspired so many manly resolutions. It has
conceived the thought to M. de Lescure of
making a research of the fact which entitled
Mme, de Lafayette to the admiration and un-
fading remembrance of her husband, and to
sketch thus as a margin to the history of La-
fayette, like a bas-relief at the foot of a statue
—the history and the image of the accom-
plished and discreet wife who honored his fire-
side and who was his consolation by the fidel-
ety of an heroic love through all the vicissi-
tudes of glory and the intermittances of popu-
larity.
	Mme. De Lafayette was a Noailles, one of
the five danghters of the third Due d’Ayen.
Le 4 Thermidor an II (22 June, 1694) in one
“single batch” she lost, by the merciless
guillotine, her mother, the Duchesse d’Ayen,
her grandmother, the Marechale De Noailles
and the Vicomtesse De Noailles, her eldest
sister, married to one of her cousins. The old
Marechale was eighty-six years of age,and had
fallen into a state of entire imbecility. Her
daughter and granddaughters were obliged to
sustain her under the arms to enable her to
mount the scaffold, for she scarcely walked any;
she sang and laughed, imd jocosely inquired if
they were not conducting her a la promenade.
The terror caused this poor old head to totter.
	Adrienne De Noailles was married to the
Marquis De Lafayette on the 11th of April,
1774. She was twelve and a half, he being 
seventeen. These mariages between juveniles
were frequent among the French nobility, but
following the sayings of the times, "on ne met-
tait pas toujours les epoux ensemble." A speci-
fied time was appointed when the marriage
should receive a legitimate consummation. Na-
turally this little married couple sought to, and
finally succeeded in rejoining each other. One
day the young husband penetrated to the apart-
ment of his petite wife and turned the key.
The principle relatives were angry and scolded,


but laughing in their sleeves muttered: "Look
at the little dog!" The city and the court
amused themselves with it, and the gazettes
contained the adventure. This was very
piquant. In our days they would have made
of it one of the operettas.
	Mme De Lafayette made her first communion
after having been married six years, and the
same year became a mother.
	But behold, at the end of three years of
married life, the young husband decamped one
fine night. He excused himself by des lettres
eloguentes directed to his wife, and also direct-
ed to the Duchesse d'Ayen, his mother-in-law. 
He had believed it to be his duty to depart fur-
tively, because they would have restrained him
if he had made known his design. This was not
for a little voyage, and he states plainly that he
intends crossing the ocean. He speeds, he flies
to America. He wishes to put his virgin sword
to the service of the insurgents against Eng-
land, and contribute himself, a gentleman by
birth, to found a first republic. His wife in 1777
voluntarily pardoned his escapade. This gen-
erous zeal for liberty beyond the sea took the
color of heroism and romance, which raised the
admiration of the young courtiers even in the
immediate surroundings of the king. It was
only the old Noblesse which shook their heads
--this was not bad going to give liberty to
America. But, see there! If the people de-
manded it as well in France!
	But the wife of the young hero could not be
unforgiving; indeed, to the contrary, had she
not loved him more for this noble weariness of
inoccupation, for this manly ambition for an
occasion to distinguish himself, for this grave
design so courageously disguised, for this secret
so well concealed, for this audacious departure,
for this modest bravery and ardent desire to
win those pure laurels, not of the couqueror,
but those of the liberator, the chaplet of which
he wished his wife to participate in the crown-
ing honors with himself, and engarland as
trophies the cradle of his children. And thus,
really, he was of the same opinion as Mme. De
Lafayette. The return of the liberator tri-
umphed over all pretentions; when he was seen,
when he was heard, he was not only pardoned,
but admired, adored. All Paris had for him
the same eyes as his wife. As a consecration,
as a living testimony of the great happiness of
the first return, that of Feb., 1779, scarcely re-
vealing the dawning of this glory, which had
not blazed forth until in 1782 with victory and
peace. Mme De Lafayette gave birth, on the
24th of Dec., 1779, to the son expected, the son
desired, the inheritor of the name George
Washington De Lafayette. And it is to
Washington that the mother confided her son
when the reign of terror had driven her hus-
band from France, when her mother, her sister
and her grandmother were sentenced to pay
with their life the crime of their birth, and
when she, under a decree of arrest, had been
conducted to Paris, where the revolutionary
tribune attended her.
    At the end of May, 1794 the citoyenne La-
fayette was transferred to Paris, committed to
the Petite Force, then to the Luxembourg Le
9 Thermidor. She was not discharged. She
did not gain her liberty until the 23rd of Jan.,
1795, when she obtained a passport for America,
but embarked at Dunkirk for destination to
Hamburg. In September she arrived at vienna
with her two daughters.
	Now comes the most interesting portion of
the life of this faithful spouse. By the media-
tion of the Prince De Rosemborg, Grand
Chamberlain, Mme De Lafayette obtained an
audience with the Emperor, unknown to his
ministers. After a detention of sixteen months
she had come simply and naturally to solicit
the favor of sharing the captivity of her hus-
band, who had been languishing in duress
these three years. This favor was accorded to 
her.
    Mme De Lafayette and her daughters par-
took during two long years, the captivity of
the General. The fair prisoners were treated
with a consideration which was free from rigor.
For consoling herself in the evening--while
the eldest daughter served as secretary to her
father, or as a substitute for workers outside,
threw down the pen for the scissors and the
needle, and cut out and put together the shoes
for the family--Mme De Lafayette wrote slow-
ly the life of her mother, with a tooth-pick
dipped in a little dissolved India ink, upon
the margin of the engravings of a volume of
Buffon.
	The liberation of Lafayette and his compan-
ions was due to one of the clauses of the treaty
of Campo-Formio. The portals of the citadel
d'Olmutz were thrown open for the French
prisoners the 19th of September, 1797, after
five years and one month of involuntary cap-
tivity for Lafayette and his companion prison-
ers, and twenty-three months of voluntary
captivity for his wife and daughters; but they
did not re-enter France until after the 18th
Brumaire.
	Mme De Lafayette died December 24th,
1807 of the malady, the germ of which she
contracted in the prison d'Olmutz.
	Translated from a French Journal by George
Hamlin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
     The evening after the departure of Bishop
Whitney, Brothers Woolley and Van Cott, a
council was held at Bro. Russel's tent, where a
committee was chosen to select locations for the
winter, between the village and the Old Fort,
as sanctioned by the Indians. Committee’s
names: Fathers Eldredge and Cutler, Bro's
A. P. Rockwood, Winslow Farr and J. M.
Grant.  They started next day, though the
weather was stormy, and continued so two or
three days.	*	*	*
     "Sunday, the 30th.  Meeting was held at
the stand, commencing at 10 a.m.  Elder O.
Pratt opened the meeting by prayer and said
he would endeavor to occupy the time, by the
President's request, till he and Bro. Kimball
should arrive.  He then spoke on general mat-
ters for a while, when, the President arriving,
he said he would stop, but by his request he
proceeded.  His subject was the necessity of
education to the Elders of Israel, and to the
children in the camp.  He was followed by
Bro. Kimball, who spoke in corroboration of
his remarks, and spoke at some length on the
government of the Kingdom of God.
     Horace Eldredge, the Marshall, then arose
and told the congregation of the late resolu-
tions adopted by the council.
     President Young succeeded him, and spoke
at some length, sanctioning what Bro. Kimball
had said, and then went on treating on miscel-
laneous matters, and gave a great deal of good
instruction.  "After singing by the choir, the
meeting was closed with prayer by Jedediah
M. Grant."
     On the 14th my husband's journal mentions
B. Young, H. C. Kimball and others still be-
ing engaged in laying out city lots.
     Bro. Joseph Harvey's wife died on the morn-
ing of the 6th.  She had been very ill for some
time--"He had recently come from Nauvoo,
and had spent a great deal of his time and
substance in fitting others out for the journey
before he started himself; the consequence is
that he is very sick himself.  His wife left

[column 2]
three small children.  Bro. Kimball had him
put into Daniel Davis's tent that he might be
nearer to us, and thus have better care and
more attention paid to him."
     The next day being warm and pleasant some
of the boys were engaged in cutting and draw-
ing house logs.  Horace speaks of attending
council that evening with my father, President
Young and others of the brethren.  He says:
     "It had already commenced when we arri-
ved; they were reading a report brought by one
of the brethren who came from the Punkaw
nation; the substance of which was, that Bishop
Miller's company were located on a stream
called Running Water, or Punkaw river, and
two hundred miles from this place; that they
were uniformly used well by the Indians, had
good forage for the cattle, etc.  Bro. Grant, by
vote of the council, gave an oral report of his
visit to the village at the point.  He had seen
Mr. Sarpee and he was willing that we should
remove the ferry boat to the new place that we
had selected, as he had a Mackinaw boat of his
own that would answer his purpose.  Mr. Sar-
pee also informed him that he had lately seen
a Dr. Mann, who, he said, was at the massacre
at Haun's Mill in Missouri, and a regular
mobocrat, who told him that the State Marshal
of Missouri, with a posse, was on his way here
to arrest the Twelve.  Bro. Grant also stated
that the Secretary of War had written to the
Indian agent to have the Mormons leave the
Pottawotomie lands on the other side of the
river as soon as may be."
     He mentions seeing a letter written by Sister
Diantha Billings to "Brother Kimball's folks,
in which is recorded a speciment of Indian jus-
tice.  It appears that one of the young Pun-
kaw Indians had shot an arrow into one of
Bro. Brigham's cattle, for which misdemeanor
he was taken by the Indians of his own tribe
and whipped, his pony shot and one of his own
eyes dug out."


MISCELLANEOUS.

     Religion is the hospital of the soul that the
world has wounded.--J. Petit. Senn.

     "The most ignorant have knowledge enough
to discover the faults of others; the most clear-
sighted are blind to their own."

     "The Italian Post-office not only sends post-
office orders and telegraphs money at home and
abroad, but insures packages of money by the
mails.

	“The best of a book is not the thought which
it contains, but the thought which it suggests,
just as the charm of music dwells not in the
tones, but in the echoes of our hearts.

     If instead of a gem, or even a flower, we
would cast the gift of a lovely thought into the
heart of a friend, that would be giving as the
angels must give.--Geo. MacDonald.

     "The glory of man consists not merely in
looking up to what is above him, but in lifting
up what is below him; the noblest and most ex-
alted character is also the tenderest and most
helpful.

     "In these degenerate times a great many men
may be found in bar-rooms, gesticulating wild-
ly and proclaiming their intention of support-
ing this or that political party, when they
would appear to much better advantage sup-
porting their families.

     The spirit of liberty is not merely, as some
people imagine, a jealousy of our own particu-
lar right, but a respect for the rights of others,
and an unwillingness that any man, whether
high or low, should be wronged and trampled
under foot.-- Channing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MIDNIGHT MUSINGS. 

LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO THE MEMORY OF OUR DE-
PARTED FRIEND, MARIA J. BOOTH.

The pale moon shines out from the western sky,
	The east is rosy with the coming dawn;
To woo sweet sleep no longer will I try,
	That soothing messenger has long since gone
And left me busy with the scenes of yore,
	Whose vivid memories throng my wakeful brain,
Where long I've sought amid its scanty lore
	Bright gems of thought in vain.

Sad tidings reach us in our far-off home,
	That swell the fountain of our hearts with grief,
With sympathy could consolation come,
	Our sorrowing friends would find a sure relief.
One more dear friend is numbered with the dead;
	Her husband absent at this trying hour,
His lonely threshold he will ere long tread--
	O God, support him by Thy power.

With him we know the parting pain yet lingers
	Of little more than three short years ago.
When ghastly death, with cruel, icy fingers,
	Laid one dear member of his household low;
And now again we read in mournful measures,
	Death claims another one so pure and fair,
Which leaves his tender household treasures
	Without a mother's loving care.

When on my home returning trip last May
	I spent a week with this dear friend of mine;
I knew her husband had been called away
	Upon God's errand to a distant clime.
With patient zeal I saw her once more drain
	That mingled cup of earthly bliss and woe,
For woman’s' supremest joy and pain
	Still hand in hand must go.

When in the mother's arms we laid her little son,
	With loving pride a welcome sweet she sailed,
Like some brave warrior o'er a battle won,
	Well paid for all, in this her precious child,
By which a golden link is added to the chain
	Of endless lives in fairer worlds than this,
O’er whom her husband and herself my reign
	Through coming ages of eternal bliss.

As o’er her snowy couch I bent with loving care
	To brush the lustrous waves of ruddy gold
That crowned her queenly head with beauty rare
	In nature's grand and perfect mould,
I little dreamed that it would be the last
	Sweet taste of fellowhip on earth that we
Would e'er enjoy until we both should pass
	The shining portals of Eternity.

The last sweet message from her hand received,
	A note of sadness breathed from ev'ry key;
Her loving heart, like many others, grieved
	O'er dreadful news from far-off Tennessee.
Fresh in my memory are the plaintive words she spoke
	The dream that he, her loved one, had returned;
That when her mind from restless slumber woke,
	Peculiar feelings in her bosom burned.

'Tis true events of coming time do often cast
	Their fitful shadows o'er our pathway here,
Misunderstood until fulfilled at last;
	We then look back and read their meaning clear;
And ere the missive was complete, she said,
	"The mourning bells ring out a requiem drear,
Ma Smoot's pure spirit from this earth has fled
	To realms of glory in a higher sphere."

And now, sweet friend, a brief farewell to thee;
	May we alike prove true to every trust,
And when our spirits like thine own are free,
	This frail mortality has sought its kindred dust,
Oh, may we meet the loved ones gone before
	In robes of pure celestial glory dressed,
Sweet anthems sing on that elysian shore
	Where weary souls find rest.
					MARY A. FARNSWORTH.
Moan Coppy, Arizona, Nove. 15th, 1884.


SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY FOR
PLURAL MARRIAGE.

     "Yet setteth He the poor on high, from af-
fliction and maketh Him families like a flock."
--Psalms, xi, 41.

[column 2]
     "The righteous shall see it and rejoice, and
all iniquity shall stop her mouth."--42.
     This is the last time, when God will restore
all things as at the beginning.  In the days of
the ancient covenant people of the Lord, He
approved of His servants having more wives
the ceremony was the same with one as an-
other, his children were legitimate and God
blessed them.  As in the case of Abraham,
Jacob, David, Solomon and others, God blessed
the seed of plural marriage.
     Gen. XXXV, 11.  "And God said unto him:
Jacob, I am God Almighty: be faithful and
multiply, a nation, and a company of nations
shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of
thy loins."  Now God had this talk with Jacob
after he had lived in the marriage relation with
four wives.  Do our persecutors think that
God has changed?  He is the same yesterday,
to-day and forever.  He has again restored
this order of marriage, which is for time and
all eternity, and is in line with that holy order
established by righteous men whose posterity
is traced to the Savior's birth, through Solo-
mon, born in the marriage relation; his wives
were given to him by Nathan the Prophet.
John the Baptist was of this lineage, being a
literal descendant of Aaron.  God must have
looked upon plural marriage as being right and
lawful in His sight, or He would not have sent
His only begotten Son through their posterity.
"And the Lord God shall give unto Him the
throne of His father David; and He shall
reign over the house of Jacob forever."  Luke,
i, 32, 33.
     What, over the house of a man that lived
with four wives in the marriage relation?  O
dear! those men in the East must be horrified
when they read "the Gospel according to St.
Luke."  "And of His kingdom there shall be
no end."  Now if Christ has a kingdom He
must have subjects, and they are polygamists
and their offspring, and He calls David father
who established His throne, that great polyga-
mist; then David's son Solomon must be His
brother, and if He reigns over the house of
Jacob, his posterity must be the subjects of His
kingdom.
     We read in the New Testament that we 
must do the words of Abraham to become his
children, and God said He would be called
their God, and He was a friend of Abraham.
And the twelve sons of Jacob made twelve
tribes that God called Israel, and He has their
names written on the twelve gates of pearl, the
New Jerusalem, in which Latter-day Saints
can enter because they practice this Bible doc-
trine as God has revealed it to them before
any law was made against it.  "In that day
seven women shall take hold of one man and
shall say, let us be called by thy name to take
away our reproach, and we will eat our own
bread and wear our own apparel."  Should
not wonder if some of the wives of those who
fight against this doctrine did not plead to
be saved by one holding authority to seal on
earth and in heaven.
     Women do understand religious principle as
a general thing better than men, and they will
yet come and ask favors at the hands of those
who have power to seal on earth and in heaven
for their minister has only married them "until
death doth them part;"  and that, too, without
authority from God, they have not power even
to bind on earth.
     Let us, dear sisters, be thankful that we are
married in the Lord.  "What God has joined
together let no man put asunder."  They have
no power to put us asunder; we are married by
God's law.  Do they think that prison bolts
can sever the marriage tie?  It is ratified in
the heavens.  They ask us a true question, are
you this man's wife?  When were you married?
They have to acknowledge the true coin to get
hold of the handle.  It reminds me "And the

[column 3]
writing was, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of
the Jews."  The Jews wanted it changed but
had not the power.
MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 20, 1884.


GOSHEN Y. L. AND PRIMARY FAIR.
	A feeling of delightful admiration came over
the people on entering the shoolhouse, which
was most beautifully decorated with the handi-
work of the members of the Y. L. and Primary
Associations. It was surprising to see the
beautiful articles made by the youth of this
place. At a glance one could note the im-
provement made on previous years. How can
the world say the sons and daughters of Zion
are not intelligent? We are sure they would
not believe that statement if they would visit
the fairs among the Saints and see the bright
faces of the children beaming with intelligence,
and see the many beautiful things made by
them.
	Some very handsome quilts were exhibited,
done by the elder members; also neatly done
patchwork and cradle quilts by our very small
children. There were rugs, mats of various
kinds, flowers on velvet, canvas and hair work,
shawls, infants' wear, stockings, brackets, laces,
tidies, embroideries, mottoes, slippers, wool, card-
ed and spun, window curtains, aprons, and
other clothing; also varions articles of food and
vegetables, walking canes, hay rakes, ladders, a
centre table, and many other things too numer-
ous to mention.
	Two meetings were held, one at 10 a.m. and
the other at 2 p.m. In the morning the time
was spent in listening to the remarks of our
Bishop, our Primary President, and other
members of the Ward. In the afternoon we
were highly interested in listening to a spicily
arranged programme, consisting of songs, reci-
tations and dialogues. In all, we had a pleas-
urable and enjoyable time.
LUCY TAYLOR.
Oct. 18, 1884.


A SOCIABLE PARTY.

    The Y. I. M. I. A. of the Eighth Ward
held a social picnic and meeting as a surprise
to the Secretary, in honor of her birthday, Oct.
29th, 1884. After the opening exercises the
President arose and stated the object of the
meeting and presented a quilt to the Secretary
made by the officers and members. Miss S. A.
Hawkins then returned her thanks to all pres-
ent. The names of the committee are as fol-
lows: Counselor S. J. Chamberlain, Chairman,
Lucy Chamberlain, Jennie Smith, Jennie Mor-
tensen, Annie Lynch, Lucy Oakey, Mattie
Sheets, Mary Shank and Mrs. Jennie Young.
Misses Lucy Chamberlain and S. A. Hawkins,
invitation committee.
    After a short programme the following
named sisters made some very good remarks:
Sister E.R.S. Smith, Prest. M.A. Freeze,Sis-
ters Elizabeth Howard and Mattie Horne Tin-
gey, and E. B. Fletcher Prest. of the Relief
Society.
    After meeting those present partook of a
bounteous repast prepared by the young ladies.
			MRS. M. B. LEAVER, Prest.
			MISS SARAH A. HAWKINS, Sec.


“Some people talk as if the whole object of
life was to obtain liberty, instead of the whole
object of liberty being to attain a higher and
fuller life. To be free to speak, to write, and
to act just as we choose is certainly a thing to
be desired; but a far higher aspiration than
this would be that we should only choose to
speak, to write, or to do that which is true, fit-
ting and valuable.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Late City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten .opies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s ,uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
							Salt	Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1884.


MISS FAITHFUL AGAIN.

    Again we take up the pen to pick up a thread
or two omitted in the former notice of Miss
Faithfull's Chapters on Utah. It would be very
wrong not to contradict the statement made
concerning Sister Eliza Snow, whose life and
labors among this people have ever been so
faithfully and efficiently performed. Sister
Eliza is above slander. It cannot touch her in
her magnanimity of character, but for the sake
of the principle involved, and one which the
Latter-day Saints hold sacred and divine we
feel called upon to reply to the infamous asser-
tion which Miss F. has quoted in her book. She
states that she was told of this matter and then
comments. It does seem as though a woman of
Miss Faithfull's age and experience, after hav-
ing seen Sister Eliza Snow herself, and having
some conversation with her upon that very
principle, would have had better judgment than
to repeat such a wicked story without having
further authority than "I was told." We will
give her own version as she has published it.
"I was told of a wife who had sought Eliza
Snow's counsel in the supreme hour of her an-
guish--when her dearly loved husband was
about to take unto himself a second wife, a
prettier and more attractive girl than herself.
    " 'I cannot live,' she cried in despair, 'and see
her with him.'
    " 'Pray for resignation,' said the poetess.
    " 'I do, but I shall die if he brings her home!'
was still the despairing response.
    "The woman must indeed have been lost in
the priestess before Eliza Snow's lips could have
framed the cruel answer, 'Die, then! There are
hundreds of women up in that burying ground
who have gone there because they could not be
resigned to the will and order of God.' "
    This is the statement, and the only authority
she gives for it. Now, we know Eliza Snow;
have known her for forty years; a great part of
that time most intimately, in her works and
labors; have traveled with her through the dif-
ferent stakes of Zion; have seen her in all the
various circumstances and situations incident to
such journeyings, when we meet the people in
their homes and by the fireside, as well as in
public gatherings, and never have we heard
from her lips anything like unkindness to those
who came for sympathy or counsel, but on the
contrary when sisters, passing through any se-
vere trial or affliction, have sought her, she has
poured out sympathy and consolation in such a
spirit of humility and love that it has imparted 
comfort and blessing, especially as she is a
woman gifted with power in that direction, and
has a great influence over those with whom she
mingles. It would not be possible for Eliza
Snow, we speak advisedly, to make such a re-
mark; not only is it contrary to her own woman-
ly nature and character, but it is contrary to the
principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
she holds to be higher than anything else. There
is no place nor people who have a greater regard
for each other's individual feelings than in Utah
and among the "Mormons."
    Sister Eliza Snow has ever shown a kindly
feeling for the "stranger in our midst," and she
devotes a large portion of her very valuable
time to talk to and enlighten those seeking for
information upon the subject of the Latter-day
Saints. Often she has been kindly spoken of
afterwards by the press and so on, and others
have misrepresented her as in the case of Miss
Faithful, but never have we seen a more cruel
and unjust falsehood published about a woman
who devotes her life to doing good to others, than
the one we have alluded to here; however it is
the fate of all those who follow in the footsteps
of our Savior, to be evil spoken of by the world.
As for Sister Eliza Snow herself she lives so far
above any slander or misrepresentation that it
cannot reach her at all, and she can afford it,
but those who circulate such evil reports can
very ill afford it. They will have it to meet in
the great hereafter, when all must give an ac-
count of the deeds done in the body.
    It may perhaps be thought we are taking up
too much space in contradicting Miss F's asser-
tions, but there is one other point which is real-
ly an important one, and that is, her seeking to
enlist Queen Victoria and the English Govern-
ment in some way to hinder emigration from
that country. She says: "A very large propor-
tion of the victims," wrote the Chicago Inter
Ocean, "are importations from Great Britain.
Missionaries, supplied with ample letters of cred-
it, act as panders for polygamy in large towns
and hamlets, inducing poor people to accept
family tickets to Utah, generally with-holding
from them the knowledge of what awaits the
girls of the household. Mr. Evarts, when Sec-
retary of State, tried to check this evil through
consuls, but he could accomplish nothing.
Queen Victoria should protect her subjects from
such an imposition. Our government would
gladly co-operate in any feasible plan having
that object in view." After quoting this pas-
sage from the Inter Ocean, she adds, "How far
Her Majesty can protect her subjects in this di-
rection I cannot undertake to say; believing that
some service can be done by presenting to the
public true pictures of Mormon life, I have en-
deavored in these pages to give my readers the
benefit of all the information I obtained while
residing among this "peculiar people," which I
consider has an important bearing on the extra-
ordinary phase presented to the world by the so-
cial life and practices of the Latter-day Saints."
She then elaborates the matter more fully and
says that several letters addressed to her are
lying by her side, and quotes upon the subject
the following from one:
    "Agents of Mormonism are still inducing
numbers of our young people, in the east of
London, to go out of our country; they are de-
luded by the missionary's perversion of the
Scriptures, to suit his own inclinations, and al-
lured with the belief that in Salt Lake City
they will find Zion or Paradise at once."
    Then she tells a dreadful tale of misery and
horror to substantiate what she has said, and
adds, "It is one of the many sad histories I know
to be true." She does not tell us how she knows
so much, and speaks of her residence here as if
she had remained in Utah some considerable
time, whereas, the truth is, she was only here a
very few days.
    Now, we know how utterly false all her state-
ments are; we know well that our Elders go to
preach the Gospel, to carry the glad tidings of
salvation, such as the Latter-day Saints en-
joy, to those who sit in darkness; go without
purse or scrip, trusting in God to provide their
daily food; they have no letters of credit, nor
even money in their purse, except, sometimes,
sufficient to take them to their place of destina-
tion, and they carry no flattering tidings to in-
duce any to emigrate, but preach the word of
God, which, when received by the honest heart,
awakens in the recipient of the Holy Spirit, a
desire to gather to Zion, a desire which often
becomes so great that it is hard for those who
preside over the branches of the Church abroad to
induce converts to remain until it is wisdom for
them to come. Those who have been upon these
missions know that this is true; we have often
heard the Elders allude to these things. There
may occassionally be an instance where people
are dissatisfied after they come to Utah, but
such instances are the exception and not the
rule; they prosper here, and their circumstances
are usually much more independent than they
were in the old country. As for young women,
they have their own agency to do just as they
wish about marriage; as a general thing they de-
sire to be united to a good man, a man of honor,
a Latter-day Saint, and why should they not?
And as for the women helping to support the
family, it is our candid opinion there is less of it
done in Utah than in other places. Women
everywhere among the working classes expect
to do something to help with the living if there
is a large family, and if the histories of women's 
lives are ta be taken to prove the condition of
women in Great Britain, we have heard from
the lips of English women themselves, tales
more heart-rending and sickening, more horri-
fying and revolting than those Miss Faithfull
and other similar writers against Mormonism
can tell of the "horrors of polygamy." Besides,
why not take the testimony of women living in
that order, instead of those who are so anxious
to crush out the life saving and vital principle?
Have not the Latter-day Saints a right to work
as well as other laboring people, and is not all
honest work honorable, whether done by men
or women? And when women are happy can
they not do more work, and do it better, than
those who restless and dissatisfied with life, and
forever trying to make others as wretched as they
are themselves.
    If Miss Faithfull and a few others who have
come here to find out the mysteries of plural
marriage and publish it to the world would take
a little more time to investigate the horrors of
their own cities and towns, they would find
polygamy sink into insignificance when com-
pared with the terrible crimes that are becoming
prevalent in their own localities. We judge by
the statistics published and "he who runs may
read.' Mormon women who remain faithful
and true to the covenants they have made in
holy places, have nothing to fear either from
judges, juries, or publishers, for they know for
themselves and not for another, that God is with
this people, and though men revile, and slander,
and persecute, and say all manner of evil, and
women, too, yet they have an assurance that is
eternal, that reaches beyond the grave, and no
man or woman can take away the peace and
consolation this gives to the Latter-day Saint.
We bear no ill-will or malice to Miss Faithfull,
but what she has written will stand as a wit-
ness against her.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms on Friday, December
26th, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p m. Ver-
bal reports from each branch will be expected,
and it is hoped there will be a good attendance.
The Primary Associations will hold their Con-


ference Saturday, 27th, commencing at 10 a.m.
and the Y. L. M. I. A. on the same day, com-
mencing at 2 p. m.
	The Presidents message has been delivered
and Utah has not been forgotten. He seems to
have accepted the advice of the Utah Commis-
sion, and would be glad to give Congress abso-
lute political control of the Territory. The fol-
lowing is an extract from the message:
THE UTAH QUESTION.
	The report of the Utah Commission will be
read with interest. It discloses the results of
recent legislation looking to the presentation and
punishment of polygamy in that Territory. I
still believe that if that abominab'e practice can
be suppressed by law, It can only be by the
most radical legislation consistent with the re-
straints of the Constitution. I again recom-
mend, therefore, that Congress assume absolute
political control of the Territory of Utah and
provide for the appointment of a commission
with such governmental power as in it's judg-
ment may justly and wisely be put into their
hands.
	On Thursday, November 20th, a little party
of ladies met by invitation at the residence of
her daughter and son in-law, Brother and Sister
Henry C. James, to celebrate the anniversary
of the birthday of Sister M. Isabella Horne, one
of the representative women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. The afternoon was spent in
interesting conversation, and many fervent con-
gratulations were offered to the honored lady
that she had lived so long and still retained
health and vigor, and that she had reared such a
numerous and noble family in the Church of
Jesua Christ of Latter-day Saints. The birth-
day passed off very pleasantly.
	At about six o’clock the ladies, with Brother
Horne, he being the only gentleman at the table,
sat down to a sumptuous repast, and all enjoyed
it, for there was “the feast of reason and the
flow of soul” as well as many good things pre-
pared by the lady’s charming daughters, who
are all excellent housewives.
	We missed, on that occasion, our dear Sisters
Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. Young,
who were both absent on duty, and we realized
how much more complete the party would have
been if these two sisters had been present.
Long life to SisterHorne, and may she have
many more happy returns of the day, with her
companion by her side, and in the full enjoy-
ment of all the faculties with which God has so
abundantly endowed her.
	At a special meeting of the Board of Directors
of the Deseret Hospital Association, held on
Friday, Nov. 21st at 11 o’clock a.m., in the Hos-
pital building, Dr. W. F. Anderson was appoint-
ed to the position of medical Superintendent
and unanimously elected to that position in the
institution, it having been understood before-
hand, that the matter had been laid before him
and that he was willing to accept the position.
	A vote of thanks was also tendered to Dr.
Joseph S. Richards, for the valuable services he
had rendered the hospital while attending regu-
larly as visiting physician during the past few
months, and the wish was expressed by all
present that he should continue to visit when-
ever he had the time or inclination to do so, as it
is the desire of those connected with this home
for the afflicted, to secure for it the aid and in-
fluence of the best physicians in Utah, that it
may develop, in the near future, into an institu-
tion of which the people will be justly proud.
			H. B. Clawson, President,
			E. B. Wells,Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.
	On Saturday, Nov. 22nd, at about eleven
o’clock, Elder Horace K. Whitney passed quiet-
ly and peacefully to his final rest. He was the


eldest son of the late Bishop Newel K. and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and was born in Kirt-
land, Ohio, July 25th, 1823.
	Horses, as he was familiarly called by his re-
latives and friends, was one of those men who
never seemed to grow old, and indeed, until his
recent illness, which terminated fatally, he
looked the picture of health, and more fresh in
his complexion and buoyant in spirits than
many young men. He was a man of fine social
qualities, and was greatly beloved as well as ad-
mired by his friends, for his many superior ac-
complishments,as well as his genial, and amiable
disposition. He was strictly moral, honest and
upright, and possessed those scholarly attain-
ments that always elevate the man who uses
them judiciously.
	The writer knew him first in 1841, and from
that time until his death. He was what might
consistently be termed a brilliant conversational-
ist, when he was associated with those with
whom he felt at ease, but shrank from public
notice or criticism with a degree of sensitive-
ness which rendered him incapable of taking
the place and position his talents and ability
would have entitled him to fill with honor and
dignity.
	Horace K. and his younger brother Orson K.,
who died July 31st ult. were both pioneers.
Horace was at that time twenty-four years old,
Orson only seventeen. In early life these two
brothers were the most devoted friends and
both of them young men who gave great prom-
ise of success and usefulness in life.
	Horace Whitney was one of those men who
accepted practically the principle of celestial
marriage, and honored it in his daily life, and
his example in this particular is worthy of imi-
tation; he proved his sincerity in this sacred
order of marriage by his works, and he was de-
votedly loved by his family, and will be sincere-
ly mourned; yet the Gospel teaches us to restrain
our grief for those who have died in the faith of
the Gospel as he has done.	E.	B.	W.


GENERAL MEETING R. S. & Y. L.
	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, Nov. 15th, at two p.m., Coun. B. W.
Smith, presiding. After singing and prayer by
Coun. E. Howard and singing again, m nutes of
previous meeting were read and approved, also
minutes of Y. L. of the 17th, 20th and 4th
Wards, and P. A. of the 14th and 21st Wards,
Coun. Smith said she wished the sisters to oc-
cupy the time in bearing their testimon es.
	Sisters E.S. Taylor was the first to speak of
the goodness of God and exhort the other sis-
ters to testify.
	Sisters Bird, Hicks, Kelly, Whitpin, Ander-
son, Hadden, Watmough, Smith, Hazen, Dyer,
M. E. Kimball, Dobson, Ann Richards and others
each bore a faithful testimony.
	Coun. Sarah Kimball occupied a few moments,
said she felt like listening more than speaking,
said she thought it a good thing to refrain from
speaking evil of any one,even those we consider
our enemies; it is better to be kind and polite to
all; we want to elevate and prepare ourselves for
a higher position; alluded to the many good
qualities of the late Sister Smoot.
	Coun. E. Howard said there had been much
good instruction given, and after some other re-
marks said we want to be just and peacable no
matter what comes; never wound another's
feelings.
	Coun. Smith made a few closing remarks and
the meeting adjourned for two weeks,with sing-
ing and benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.
	Regular meeting held Nov. 29th, at 2. p.m.,
President M. I. Home presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. Phebe Woodruff,
then singing, and minutes of previous meeting
were read and accepted. Minutes of Y. L. of
the 20th and 14th Wards, and P. A. of the 20th
and 21st Wards.
	Prest. Horne requested the secretaries in fu-
ture to take the front seats, and expressed the
pleasure she felt in meeting with the sisters
again,she had been prevented of late by sick-
ness in the family.
	Coun. Sarah Kimball spoke to the secretaries
for a few minutes in a very pleasing manner.
	Coun. Zina D. H. Young, in her most happy
manner, addressed the sisters; her remarks were
mostly upon the work in the Temple, the hea-
venly influence felt by all who officiated there,
and the great necessity of purity of character
to be prepared to act for the dead.
	Coun. P. Woodruff spoke of the necessity of
performing every duty and seeking the guidance
of the Holy Spirit to help us, and then our ene-
mies could not have power to harm us; but if we
are negligent in performing our duties and lose
the Spirit of God, we will find ourselves in a
very poor position.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke encouragingly to the
secretaries, giving them good advice. Coun.
Howard regretted there were not more of the
young ladies attended the meetings and would
like to see enough of them come to sing for
the meetings.
	Prest. Horne made some very pertinent re-
marks upon the liability of all to make mistakes
and need correction; said she wished more to see
her own errors then those or others; warned the
sisters to beware of evil influences and not to
be deceived through being over zealous, but to
seek to have the Spirit of God at all times. Ad-
vised the young ladies to keep good company
and study good behavior at all times and in all
places.
	Sister Mary Freeze thought the young ladies
needed the spirit of discernment to enable them
to judge who were good and to shun those who
were evil.
	Prest. Horne gave notice that the conference
would be held on the 26th and 27th of December,
and the meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing. Benediction by Coun. Zina D. H.
Young.


ANNUAL PRIMARY MEETING.

	On the 30th of November I attended, by invi-
tation of the President, Sister Julia Howe, the
anniversary of the Primary meeting of the 17th
Ward. Many of the parents of the children
were also present, which was encouraging to
Sister Howe and her assistants. There were a
goodly number of children present, the girls
much predominating, all looking healthy and
happy. The order was excellent and the be-
havior of the children was pretty and winning.
They were very correct in answering a long list
of very important questions, and the songs and
recitations were admirably given, even by two
or three mere infants. A song by little Miss
Edna Hyde was sung and accompanied by her-
self in a sweet manner; her sister, Miss Laura
Hyde, is secretary, and though so young, filled
her office with ease and dignity, worthy of imi-
tation. I feel it must have been a proud day for
Sister Howe, for she has been indefatigable in
her labors in the Primary department, also Sis-
ter Dougall, who has been very energetic - and I
must not forget to name Miss Ella Dallas, who
is most faithful and praiseworthy in her con-
stant attendance wherever she can be an assist-
ent, or make herself useful; she is gentle, hum-
ble and ever lady-like. Such young ladies
should be appreciated by every one - and I ex-
pect they are. I felt it was a time of refreshing


to all those ladies, and that they were in a
measure sweetly repaid for all their labors.
	Among the delightful things was a "fish
pond," which created a fund of enjoyment for
all. This concluded the eventful day, and I
feel it will long be remembered by all present.
Sister Ellen Clawson, Sister Carrington and
Sister Crooheron each addressed the children in
their usual winning way, and I felt refreshed
and edified as a child of large growth.
								H. T. K.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF
		MRS. L. W. ELDREDGE.
	The sad news that reached our ears announc-
ing the death of Sister Lizzie Winder Eldredge,
sunk deep into the hearts of relatives and friends.
I was personally acquainted with her, lived a
near neighbor to her for six or seven years, and
admired her traits of character as a true Latter-
day Saint. In all her acts of life she showed a
thorough good training of a wife and judicious
mother. In her short life she accomplished more
than one of the ordinary class of women.
	Her whole life was devoted to her religion;
she was ever present at her meetings, her child-
ren, neatly dressed, were always with her, and
her husband at the Sunday School and Sabbath
meetings. They went hand in hand together.
With a young babe in her arms she assisted her
husband in the Sunday School, acting as teacher
and reporter.
	Present at the Relief Society she there acted
as Secretary and co-worker and an encourager
of home industry. She also took an active part
in the Primary meetings; took untiring pains to
teach her young sisters to be useful. Helped
the secretaries and teachers, and spent a great
deal of time to revise and correct minutes,in the
midst of her family cares and duties.
	In her domestic life she was economical and
prudent. Her house was ever ready to entertain
her associates in, and adorned with the work-
manship of her own hands. She was a woman
of education, and had a tact for business, in
which she asssisted her husband. She attended
to all her household duties, and has gone from a
life of usefulness to a more useful one even than
this, a higher and broader sphere of action.
Her husband has a treasure eternal there—im-
mortal ones. May he emulate her example in
the culture of his children.
	Dear husband and children,
	Short is the time of our parting;
	It is near at hand, the millenium,
	I shall come in the morn, the first resurrection.
							M.  A.  M. PRATT.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
	OF EMILY D.P. YOUNG.

	The following sketch of the life of one of our
faithful sisters, told in her own plain unvar-
nished style, will be doubly interesting to our
readers because of the graphic manner in which
she describes the most thrilling and pathetic
incidents that have ever transpired in the his-
tory of the Latter-day Saints. "We commend
and recommend it to our readers as one of the
most interesting pen pictures we have ever
read:
	I was born in the town of Painsville, Geauga
Co., Ohio, on the 28th of February, 1824; am
the third daughter of Lydia Clisbee and Ed-
ward Partridge. My parents were born in the
State of Massachusetts, and immigrated, while
young, to the State of Ohio, and there became
acquainted and married. My father was a
hatter, and by industry and perseverance had
accumulated considerable property and pro-
vided a comfortable home for his family, which
were seven in number when we moved from
that place. Although I was quite young when
we left Ohio (being about seven years old), I
remember a very pleasant home, such as I
have not had since.
	In the fall of 1830 four men came to my fa-
ther’s house having the Book of Mormon; they
claimed to have the Gospel which had bpen re-
stored again in the last days. Father told
them he thought they were imposters; when El-
der Cowdery, who was one of the four men(the
others were P. P. Pratt, Peter Whitmer and
Ziba Peterson), said he was thankful that there
was a God in heaven who knew the hearts of
all men.
	What they said must have made considerable
impression upon father’s mind, for as soon as
they were gone he sent right away after them
and bought a Book of Mormon. My mother
believed more readily and was baptized by Par-
ley P. Pratt. Father concluded to take a trip
to New York and see the Prophet for himsself
The following is what Brother Joseph says of
him in his history:
	“It was in Dec., 1830, that Elder Sidney
Rigdon, a sketch of whose history I have before
mentioned, came to enquire of the Lord, and
with him came that man (of whom I will here-
after speak more fully), named Edward Part-
ridge; he was a pattern of piety, and one of the
Lord’s great men, known by his steadfastness
and patient endurance to the end.”
	The Prophet baptized him in the Seneca
Lake on the 11th of Dec., 1830. He then
went to visit his relatives who resided in Pitts-
field, Mass., anxious that they should hear the
joyful tidings that so filled his heart with glad-
ness. He thought they had only to hear to be-
lieve, but oh, how disappointed he was when
they not only rejected his message, but him
also. They said he was crazy, and one of his
sisters, Mrs. Emily Dow, ordered him outof
her house and said she never wanted to see him
again. The shameful treatment of his friends
was so unexpected and uncalled for that it
weighed heavily upon his mind, but served to
strengthen him in the faith of the religion he
had espoused.
	What a bitter spirit lays hold of the unbe-
liever as soon as the truth is presented to them;
and those who profess the most religion are the
most uncharitable. When father returned to
New York, his parents sent his youngest broth-
er, James Harvey Partridge, to accompany
him, they thinking him deranged and not capa-
ble of taking care of himself. But this broth-
er, after he arrived in Painsville, received the
Gospel and was baptized. From New York to
his home father traveled in company with the
Prophet, who was moving his family to Kirt-
land, which place had been appointed for the
gathering of the Saints. Father arrived home
in the early part of Feb., 1831.		
	After his return, his old and most intimate
friends who had been anxious for him to go and
find out the truth of the reports about the
Book of Mormon because of their confidence
in his honesty and superior judgment, pro-
nounced him crazy, as his relatives had done
before when he declared to them that Mormon-
ism was true.
	The Saints began to gather to Kirtland from
all parts of the country where the Gospel had
been preached; and as we lived about three
miles from the boat landing, our house made a
good stopping place for the Saints, and we had
more or less of them stopping there from that
time on while we remained in Ohio. After my
parents had joined the Church they were
seized with the spirit of gathering, as every
body is as soon as they are baptized. They
bought a place in Kirtland, but they never
had the privilege of living there. Father was
called by revelation and ordained a Bishop on
the 4th of Feb., 1831. In July following he
was chosen, with several other brethren, to ac-
company Brother Joseph on his journey to the
land of Missouri. They reached Indepen-
dence, Jackson Co., about the middle of July.
Mother felt that her trials had commenced
when father was called to leave her at that
time. Her children were just recovering from
the measles, which disease had been brought
there by some of the Saints who were journey-
ing to Kirtland, and her eldest child was very
sick with the lung fever. It was a new thing
for her to be left alone in the hour of trouble,
or to have any responsibility outside of her
family or household affairs. But she was one
of the “staunch and true,” and knew it would
not do to put the “hand to the plow” and then
turn back. She could acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in her afflictions as well as her
blessings.
	After the brethren had located Zion and
transacted other necessary business, the most of
them returned to Kirtland, leaving my father
in the land of Zion, as he had been appointed
by revelation to labor in that place, take up
his residence there and send for his family. I
think it was something of a trial for him to be
left there, he wrote to motherexpressing great
anxiety about her and the children. It seemed
to him a very great undertaking tor mother to
breakup her home and prepare for such a jour-
ney without her husband to advise and make
the necessary arrangements for her. In those
days the Saints were inexperienced in such
things; and I think if father could have looked
forward into the future and beheld what his
family would have to pass through for the Gos-
pel’s sake, he would have been still more anx-
ious about them. But the Lord in mercy with-
holds the future from our gaze, or that portion
that would cause us unhappiness, and gives us
strength to bear the reality when it comes, even
that which we could pot bear in anticipation.
Father felt that he had a very great responsi-
bility resting upon him,and his own words that
he.wrote from Independence on the 5th of Au-
gust, 1831, to mother, who was still living in
Painsville, will better express his feelings than
any language of mine could possibly do. He
says:
	“I have a great desire to return to Painsville
this fall, but must not; you know I stand in an
important station; and as I am occasionally
chastened, I sometimes feel ss though I must
fall, not to give up the cause, but fear my sta-
tion is above what I can perform to the accept-
ance of my Heavenly Father.”-------
	Father’s business was left in the hands of his
agent, and his property, what was sold at all,
was sold at a very great sacrifice. His course
in joining the Mormon Church and sacrificing
his property, caused his friends in that place to
marvel, arid their verdict was as that of his
other friends had been before, that he was in-
sane.
	They could not see what there was in relig-
ion to make a man give up all worldly consid-
erations for it, and that is still a mystery to the
world.  And we cannot wonder at it when we-
consider how little they have in their belief to
create hope orexchange their bodily comfort
for. But ours is different; it is everything.
There is nothing too dear to sacrifice for the
hope that our religion gives us. One of my
uncles wrote, to father as follows: “You say the
world with all its pomp and show looks very
small in youreyes; I have every reason to be-
lieve it, from the manner of disposing of your
property, particularly your farm, which I learn
you have received a fifteen year-old horse for.”
It was in the fall if 1831, or the spring of
'32, that mother started with her family for
Jackson Co., Missouri, in a company of Saints
undor the direction of W  W. Phelps and A-
S. Gilbert. Mother must have had a great deal
to try her on this journey that we, as children,


[Column 1]
﻿knew nothing about. We went in a keel boat
as far as Cincinnati, then we took a steamboat
up the Missouri river.
	Once when the boat stopped at a landing, a
young woman belonging to our company fell
from the plank into the river, but was soon
rescued by the sailors. I think her name was
Electa Chamberlain. When we were within
about one hundred miles of our destination we
met the ice coming down the river so fast that
we could not proceed and we were obliged to
land at a place called Arrow Rock; a family 
of negroes let mother and Sister Morley have
one room in their log cabin; Brother Morley
was with father in Missouri, and his family
was traveling in the same company that we 
were. There was no window in the room, a
common thing in that country; the people gen-
erally receiviug their light through the open
door. But we had a large fireplace, and with
a good fire we could be quite comfortable. Both
families together numbered about fourteen per-
sons. We remained here several days,it being
cold weather most of the time. I do not know
what had become of the rest of the company,
but as far as I can remember, we were alone.
	As soon as circumstances would permit, Sis-
ter Morley and mother procured a Kentucky
wagon and the two families, with their effects,
were stowed into it, and we again started for
Independence. The weather was very cold—
so cold that we had to stop and lay by again
one day, and that day father and Brother
Morley met us and we were more than glad to
see them, for our journey thus far had not
been very pleasant. But what suffering and
privations my mother had to endure she never
complained or murmured, but rejoiced that she
was counted worthy to endure tribulations for
the Gospel sake. She felt that she had enlist-
ed in a good cause, and looked forward to the
happy time that had been promised to the
faithful Saints; and her religion compensated
her for all the hardships she had to endure.
And Aunt Lucy Morley,as we used to call her,
was one of the most patient women I ever
knew. She was truly a choice woman. Well,
after one day’s rest we boarded our Kentucky
wagon and continued our journey towards In-
dependence.
	When we arrived at our destination we were
so jammed and packed in the wagon by the
load slipping that we could hardly pull our-
selves out. I remember that when I made an
effort to get out I could not until some of the
load was removed.
	Father had rented a log room of a Mr.
Boggs, I think it was the same that was after-
wards Governor of Missouri; so we had a place
to go to and were glad to get to the end of our
journey and be again at home. Although we
did not have much of, a house to live in, we
knew this was Zion and would be our future
home. I can well imagine the feelings of our
parents when they first set their feet upon that
land; the rejoicing of their hearts as they
bowed in thankfulness before the Lord for His
mercies in bringing them to that holy place,
where the Zion of our God was to be built in
the last days.
	Father being Bishop he had the poor to
look after and provide for their wants. Houses
to rent being scarce and money and means
more so, it seemed necessary that father should
take a widow and four children into the one
room where we were living to pass the winter.
Now don’t think that we were crowded or that
the children quarreled, perhaps they did,
though I don’t remember. As soon as father
could build, he moved his family into his own
house.
	About the first thing the Saints did after
providing shelter for their families, was to start
a school for their children. The first school I
remember attending was in a log cabin  Jack-
son Co. The school was taught by Miss Nancy

[Column 2]
Carl, a young woman belonging to our Church.
Our house was near the Temple lot, about half
a mile from the public square in Independence.
Indians and negroes were plentiful in this west-
ern country, and everything was so diffferent
from what we were used to seeing. The people
were different in their customs and manner of
speaking. It was, “I reckon,” and “a right
smart chance,” and instead of carrying things
in their hands they would “toat” them on their
heads. Large bundles and baskets, churns,
tubs and piggins of water or milk, all “toated”
on their heads. Little children were "toated”
straddle of one hip. In warm weather wom-
en went barefoot, and little boys from two to
ten years old were running the streets with no-
thing on but a tow shirt. Everything seemed
to be after the backwoods style. The brethren
began to build houses and gather around them
the comforts of life. In building houses they
would have “raisings,” after the logs were pre-
pared the brethren would all turn out and lay
them up.
	We read in the Prophet Joseph’s history of
one in Kaw township, where he helped the
Coleville Branch raise their first house; the logs
being carried by twelve men in honor of the
twelve tribes of Israel. Some of the houses
were very neat, the logs being hewn on both
sides and the corners sawed smooth, and for a
log house they looked quite respectable. I had
now got to be eight years old and was bap-
tized in a large creek not far from Indepen-
dence by Elder John Corrill.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEVIER STAKE PRIMARY FAIR.
	On the 25th and 26th of September the Pri-
mary Association of this Stake held their an-
nual fair at Glenwood, and many beautiful and
useful articles were exhibited. The following
are among the most notable:
	The most ingenious article exhibited was a
complete saw mill, made by Lewis Baker, aged
13, of the first ward of Richfield, which did
good work, making lumber out of corn cobs.
Great credit is certainly due this young boy
when we consider he had never seen a sawmill,
this one being entirely his own invention. John
Jackson of Glenwood, aged 12 years, showed a
very nice cradle and chair, the workmanship
of his own hands, sawing the lumber from a
rough log. There was a fine display of minia-,
ture furniture: bedsteads cupboards, whatnots,
clothes-horses, etc., too numerous to mention.
There were wagons, wheel-barrows, rakes, and
other implements made by boys from six to
ten years. A very fine display of dressmaking
from the first and second wards of Richfield.
The millinery department was sparsely repre-
sented, one lady’s hat made and trimmed by
Ellen Oberg of Richfield, first ward. Crochet
work was well represented by Monroe and Red-
mond wards particularly. A fine display of
quilts, noticeably two from Richfield, and a
bedspread made by the Annabella Association;
a great variety of knitting and crochet in wool,
also of fancy needlework, and any amount of
plain sewing, which was done very creditably;
a good showing of very pretty rugs, some
handsome ornaments made of shells and straw,
a cross of moss and pebbles, the latter article
being the only one from Vermillion. The
cakes, pies, tarts, jellies, preserves and pickles
looked very inviting, also a good display of
fruits and vegetables.
	The afternoons of each day were taken up
with songs, recitations, and dancing by the lit-
tle ones. The partaking of cakes and lemonade
was enjoyed extremely by the children.
	Prest.A. K. Thurber honored the occasion
with a short address on the afternoon of the
first day, The Stake Prest., Sister Luey Hep
plar, did her utmost to make the fair a success.


and used every endeavor to have the little ones
enjoy themselves. Her labors are indefatigable
in stimulating the Primary of this Stake to ex-
cel in all good works.
					Celia E. Bean
Richfield.


VISIT TO THE COUNTRY.
	Sunday morning, Nov. 2nd, Mrs. M. I
Horne, H.M. Whitney, M. A. Freeze and E.
R. Shipp, M. D., took train for Sandy, where
they were met by carriages, which conveyed
them to South Jordan Ward, being most hos-
pitably greeted and entertained by the good
sisters. At 1:30 p.m. they met with the Relief
Society; the hall was well filled by both breth-
ren and sisters. After the usual preliminaries
remarks were made by each of the above
named sisters, also by the Bishop of the Ward
and Sister Holt of this organization. At the
close of this meeting Sister Horne returned
home, it being necessary on account of sick-
ness.
 In the evening Mrs. M. A. Freeze and E. R.
Shipp attended a meeting of the young people,
and after listening to a most excellent pro-
gramme by the young gentlemen, each ad-
dressed the meeting for a short time, when
young Bro. Gardner gave a most interesting
account of his mission to the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	On Monday, the 3rd., the ladies from Salt
Lake, together with a number from South Jor-
dan Ward, were conveyed to Fort Herriman,
a distance of eight miles, over rather a barren
region of country, though the ride was far from
uninteresting.
	On our arrival we found the Bishop await-
ing us at the meeting house door, and in the
space of a very few minutes the house was well
filled; the occasion being the organization of
the children, a large number being pressnt,
who were very conspicuous for their good order
throughout the entire proceedings. Sister Tem-
pest was chosen as President, with other offi-
cers well qualified to fill, their different posi-
tions.
	The meeting was addressed by Sister H. M.
Whitney, who spoke eloquently and at some
length on the doctrine of plural marriage.
Sister M. A. Freeze, who gave good instruction
to the children, and also to parents; Dr. E. R. 
Shipp also made some remarks, followed by
the Bishop and some of the local sisters.
	After dinner at the Bishop’s we were kindly
accompanied by Sisters Holt and BeckStead to
Sandy Station, where we took the train for
home, again, feeling that we had made the ac-
quaintance of some of God’s best people and
that we were blessed in our endeavors to bless
others.					E.R. SHIPP


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"New Hampshire has voted against against a consti-
tutional convention."
	"Among the improvements contemplated for
the New England Hospital for Women and
Children, on Codman Avenue, are a second
maternity home and a home for the nurses.”

“The youngest daughter of the Emperor of
Austria, the Princess Valerie, has added to the
list of royal authors by writing a comedy, which
was acted at the Imperial Theatre of Vienna
this week, and herself performed the part of the
heroine.”

 “Madame Johanna Spyri is said to be the
best living German writer for children. Miss
Lucy Wheelock of Chauncy School has trans-
lated, and Lothrop & Co. have published a
series of her most charming tales, under the
title of "Red Letter Stories."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISSIONARY THOUGHTS.

O Utah! how we love you!
Inspiration forbids us stay:
So we are on the billowy ocean,
To New Zealand far away.

There are six of us in number,
Sent forth by God's command
To preach the truth of the Gospel
In that far distant land.

We have left our wives and families,
Those dear loved ones at home,
To travel in the vineyard–
For those the seeds are sown,

While riding on the great ship,
The "City of Sydney" by name,
We have faith in our Father, God;
In His mercies and His fame.

And as a part of Israel
We feel to do His will,
Help to roll the stone along,
And thus His plans fulfil.

As Daniel and the Prophets
Predicted it should be,
So gather scattered Israel
In Zion to be free.
		EDWIN L. DAVIES.
October 23, 1884.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDITOR EXPONENT;

	We deeply regret to announce the death of our be-
loved and respected friend, Sister Lizzie Eldredge, wife
of Joshua Eldredge, who departed this life November
11th, 1884.

	She was born in Salt Lake City, July 2nd, 1856, where
she was reared by her tender parents, John R. and E

llen
Winder, who taught her the principles of life and salva-
tion from her earliest childhood, the impressions o
which have never for one moment been darkened by
doubt. Her life, which to us seems but brief, has been
spent in usefulness; she has labored in the Sunday
School as Secretary since its first organization in 1877.
also in the Relief Society as Secretary since 1875, and
has been engaged in the training of the young in the
Primary Association for the past five years, where she
will, at the present, be greatly missed. Many hours of
her life were spent in visiting the aged and sick cheer-
ing them with her lively voice and helping them with
her willing hands.

	Her earnest desire was to understand the principles of
her religion and to live them, and at no time was she
heard to raise her voice in objection to one. Her teach-
ings and wise counsels will be long remembered by the
little ones of this place, and many will remember the
acts of kindness she has bestowed upon them at differ-
ent times.
	During the hours of her sickness she was tenderly
cared for by a large circle of friends, who rendered her
every possible assistance; but, God, in His inscrutable
purposes, has a greater work for her behind the veil,
where she has gone to prepare the way for those she
leaves here.

	The funeral services were held at the meeting house
on Tuesday at 11:30, being the largest assembly of this
kind in this place; The remains of the departed were
carried by six of the brethren, followed by her family,
mother, brother, sister, relatives and friends. Remarks
of consolation were offered by Bishops Nebckar, Calder,
Kimball and Moroni Pratt, after which the procession
moved to the burying grounds, where, with dedicatory
prayer, the remains of our sister were consigned to their
last resting place, there to await the resurrection of the
just.

Deceased had been married ten years the 5th of last
Oct., and is the mother of six children, three of whom
are dead; she now leaves a husband, three little ones,
her fond parents, brothers and Bisters, besides a large
circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss. And
while we condole with our friends In this their hour of
bereavement, we would say, Be comforted, for through
the glorious principles of the Gospel we hope to meet,
our sister in the morning of the first resurrection with,
her three little ones who are with her in heaven. An ex-
ample she has left on earth for us to follow, and may


we ever strive to live as useful a life as our departed
sister, and inherit the same glory in the kingdom of our
God. 
Rest in peace, dear Sister Eldredge,
	For thy work on earth is done;
You have finished here your mission,
	And a crown of glory won.
	
You have gone your work to finish
	In the realms of heaven above,
And we hope some day to meet you
	There where all is joy and love,

Your kind teachings we'll remember,
	Strive to walk the narrow way,
Then we'll be prepared to meet you
	In the resurrection day.
	LIZZIE LAKER.
Meadowville, Nov. 19, 1884.


IN MEMORIAM.

	On Sunday morning, at seven o’clock, Nov. 16, 1884,
after two days’ illness, of membranous croup, Lewis
Burnham, son of James P. and Mary A. Freeze passed
quietly to his welcome rest, aged five years, five months
and seven days.
	“Little Lou” was an unusually bright, beautiful and
gifted child, around whom the fondest hopes and expec-
tations were centred; he had suffered much from lung
complaint the past three years, during which time he
had received in vision glimpses of a better and brighter
life, which seemed to have robbed him of the desire to.
remain in this; and he said he wanted to die and be an
angel. His loss makes a deep void in hearts which,
though resigned to say “Thy will, not mine,” can never
be filled till the resurrection morn gives back its jewels
—but
“We shall shortly know that lengthened breath
	Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend;
And that sometimes the sable pall of death
	Conceals the fairest bloom His love can send.
And we shall see that while we frown and sigh,
	God’s plans go on as best for yon and me;
How, when we called he heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end can see."	L


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Harrisville, Weber Ce., Oct. 25, 1884, Maria,
beloved wife of Neils P. Lee, born January 6, 1847, in
Denmark; baptized by Elder S. Sorenson June 3rd.,
1866; immigrated to Utah 1867, and entered into the
celestial order of marriage May, 1868.  She leaves a hus-
band, seven children, and a host of friends to mourn
her loss.  She was an affectionate wife, a kind and ten-
der mother, a very true and earnest Latter-day Saint,
and a faithful member of the Relief Society, always
ready to sacrifice her own comfort to relieve others.
	The funeral services were held at the schoolhouse,
where apropriate remarks were made by the Bishop
and other brethren, aided by the Spirit of God, comfort-
ing the bereaved family.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Maria
Lee by the Relief Society of West Harrisville:
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister,
we feel that we have lost a faithful and worthy member
of the Relief Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
great devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a kind wife and affectionate 
mother.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
records and a copy of the same be presented to the be-
reaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation.	MARY HEGSTED, President,
	CHRISTINA HEGSTED, Sec.


﻿“The Boston Art Club have decided to give
$2,000 in prizes at current exhibition; $350 for
the best picture by a Massachusetts artist, and
the same for the best by an American artist;
three prizes of $150 each for the three next
best works, and five of $70 each for other meri-
torious pictures, all by native artists. The
balance will form a fund toward the donations
of prizes for next year."


﻿“Women are formed for attachment. Their
gratitude is unimpeachable. Their love is an
unceasing fountain of delight to the man who
has once attained it and knows how to deserve
it. But that very keenness of sensibility
which, if well cultivated, would prove the
source of a man’s highest enjoyment may grow
to bitterness and wormwood if he fails to attend
to it or abuses it.


For Sale at this Office.
 BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,  25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.  "
POEMS, by E.R. Snow,Vol. 1,  $1.00 "
" Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50 "

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND  JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than and house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
