VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1884.	No. 5.


THE OLD PIANO.

How still and dusky is the long-closed room!
What lingering shadows and what faint perfume
Of Eastern treasures—sandal wood and scent
With nard and cassia and with roses blent.
		Let in the sunshine.
Quaint cabinets are here, boxes and fans,
And hoarded letters full of hopes and plans.
I pass them by. I came once more to see
The old piano, dear to memory,
		In past days mine.

Of all sad voices from forgotten years
It is the saddest; see what tender tears
Drop on the yellow keys as, soft and slow,
I play some melody of long ago.
		How strange it seems!
The thin, weak notes that once were rich and strong,
Give only now the shadow of a song.
The dying echo of a fuller strain,
That I shall never, never hear again,
		Unless in dreams.

What hands have touched it!  Fingers soft and white,
Since stiff and weary with life's toil and fight;
Dear clinging hands that long have been at rest;
Folded serenely on a quiet breast.
		Only to think,
O white, sad notes, of all the pleasant days,
The happy songs, the hymns of holy praise,
The dreams of love and youth that round you cling!
Do they not make each sighing, trembling string
		A mighty link!

All its musicians gone beyond recall.
The beautiful, the loved, where are they all?
Each told its secrets, touched its keys and wires
To thoughts of many colors and desires.
		With whispering fingers;
All are silent now, the farewell said,
The last song sung, the last tear sadly shed;
Yet love has given it many dreams to keep
In this lone room where only shadows creep
		And silence lingers.

The old piano answers to my call,
And from my fingers lets the lost notes fall.
O soul that I have loved, with heavenly birth
Wilt thou not keep the memory of earth, 
		Its smiles and sighs?
Shall wood and metal and white ivory
Answer the touch of love with melody,
And thou forget? Dear one, not so,
I move thee yet (though how I may not know.)
		Beyond the skies.
								HARPER'S BAZAR.


﻿A VISIT TO KENI[-]WORTH.

	How well I remember the dawning of that
lovely June morning on which I, with a party
of friends and fellow travelers, set out to visit
the famous ruins of Kenilworth, renowned in
history as one of England’s oldest ruins, and
the seat of many historical and tragic events;
endeared to all lovers of romance (and who of
us but has some romance in his nature?), by
Sir Walter Scott's beautiful tale, of which poor
Amy Robsart is the heroine.  Well, between
history and romance I was on the qui vive for
a thorough inspection of all that remained of
this famous castle.
	We lodged the night previous at a most pic-
turesque inn; and as we set out on horseback
with a guide attending, the fresh morning
breeze, the twittering of birds, and the sun just
rising over the green hills, formed so perfect a
day and so invigorated all, that had I been an
observer of the party it would not have been a

[Column 2]
very great stretch of imagination to have sup-
posed us some gay cavalcade of a past age on
a visit to a lordly entertainment. It was but
a short ride before the massive structure ap-
peared to our view; and as we slowly ap-
proached it, the appearance in that lovely
morning light was beautiful beyond my power
of description.
	Built of sandstone, time had mellowed the
color to a soft and most exquisite grey; the
green hills beyond, the blue sky above, photo-
graphed in my mind the loveliest of pictures,
each tint so blended with the other, that na-
ture left naught that could be desired.  The
complete ruin of the castle had a gothic ap-
pearance, though history tells us the large and
massive "keep," which was the citadel of the
castle, bore the name of Caesar. But no matter
when founded, let antiquaries quarrel over that,
we will gaze our fill at the huge grey ruin that
lies before us. It is composed of a gigantic pile
of castellated buildings, from their structural
design, apparently of different ages, surround-
ing an inner court. But I anticipate; we were
told by our guide that the outer wall of this
splendid castle enclosed seven acres, a part of
which was occupied in times past by extensive
stables and a large pleasure garden; but there
are now no traces of its trimmed arbors, beauti-
ful lawns and choice flowers, once lovely to be-
hold.
	The noble castle itself, which is in the centre
of this enclosure, was composed of a huge pile
of magnificent buildings, as I said before, sur-
rounding an inner court, each bearing an ap-
propriate name.  The external wall of this roy-
al castle was bounded by a partly artificial
lake, over which at the time of the haughty
Leicester’s residence here he had caused to be
constructed a beautiful bridge, that on the oc-
casion of Queen Elizabeth’s visit here she
might enter by a new way.  Beyond this lake
is a tract of land covered with lofty trees, be-
fore which the ruins are outlined in majesty
and beauty.  The lake is now a rushy swamp;
the trees which once were trimmed to stand ma-
jestically in the open air, now interlace their
branches so thickly that the sun’s rays scarce
penetrate to the ground.
	As I stood enraptured in the scene before
me, there came to my mind the exquisite sen-
timent of Sir Walter Scott, where he tells us,
“The massive ruins of the castle only tend to
show what the splendor once was, and to im-
press on the musing visitor the transitory val-
ue of human possessions and the happiness of
those who enjoy a humble lot in virtuous con-
tentment.”
	But I must not stop to quote, for we have
but the day before us, and there is still much
to see.  The famous (we might almost call it)
Elizabethan Bridge has fallen into decay, so
we were obliged to enter as commoners, by the
usual way.  The gate house which Leicester
erected on the north, still exists, and is a castle
in itself, of most beautiful architectural design.
Next we go to the Gallery Tower, which de-
rives its name from the bridge extending to the
opposite building, called Martiner’s Tower,
where ladies were wont to gather to witness
the feats of chivalry, for on the opposite side
of the lake, between these two, was a tilt yard,
defended on either side by strong and high
palisades.  Erom here we pass to the inner
court of the castle, entered by the great gate-
way which is between Caeser's tower and the

[Column 3]
grand building known as King Henry’s Lodg-
ing. This is in the very midst of these grey-
walled ruins, which represent the magnificent
specimens of architecture from the Conquest to
the time of Elizabeth.  Across this inner court
there was shown to us a small tower, the upper
part of which was reached by narrow, winding
stairs where there was a small room, generally
said to have been used for the confinement of
some unhappy person who was there murdered.
It was called the Tower of Nervyn, the legend
telling that Nervyn died here. From the small
window of the chamber could be seen what
was called the “Pleasance,” a small space of
ground ornamented with arches, statues, foun-
tains and architectural monuments, now mostly
fallen to decay. We were told that this was
the room where the beautiful Amy Robsart
had lodged when she escaped from Cumor Hall
to Kenilworth.
	The lovely twilight of this country was steal-
ing upon us.
	“The dews of summer night did fall;
		The moon, sweet regent of the sky,
	Silvered the walls of Kenilworth,
		And many an oak that grew hereby.”
ere we could bear to tear ourselves away.
	DAISY.


﻿“The Number Seven.—Hippocrates says the
septenary number, by its occult virtues, tends
to the accomplishment of all things, and is the
fountain of all the changes in life; and, like
Shakespeare, he divided the life of man into
seven ages.  The teeth spring out in the 7th
month or sooner, and are shed and renewed in
the 7th year, when infancy is fully changed
into childhood; at twice 7 years puberty begins;
at 3 times 7 years the adolescent faculties are
developed, manhood commences, and men be-
come legally competent to all civil acts; at 4
times 7 man is in full possession of all his
strength; at 5 times 7 he is fit for all the busi-
ness of the world; at 6 times 7 he becomes
wise, if ever; at 7 times 7 he is in his apogee,
and from that time decays; at 8 times 7 he is in
his first climacteric; at 9 times 7, or 63, he is in
his last or grand climacteric; and at 10 times
7, or three-score and ten, he has approached
the normal period of life.”
	The Massachusetts Medical Society in its
one hundred and third anniversary meeting,
held in Boston, June 10th and 11th, voted to
amend the by-laws so as to admit women.
	“At four o’clock an adjourned meeting of
the Society was held. After a long and ani-
mated discussion the Society voted to amend
the by-laws so as to admit women to the Socie-
ty. This action to become effective must be
concurred in by the Councillors, and a com-
mittee was appointed to present the wishes of
the Society to that body in the evening. Even-
ing reception. At 5 p.m. a reception and colla-
tion were tendered to the members of the Socie-
ty by the Medical Faculty of Harvard Univer-
sity at the new Medical College, and the new
building was exhibited. In the evening the
usual annual meeting of Councillors was held
at the Medical Library, and the question of
the admission of women was discussed and act-
ed upon.  The action of the Society in the af-
ternoon session was sustained, and in the future
women will be admitted on the same terms as
men.  This ends the struggle that has been go-
ing on for several years."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A DAY-DREAM.

IN TWO PARTS.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

PART FIRST.

	At this moment the eldest boy said,
"Pa, I wish the members of Congress
could have heard ma and Aunt Katie last night
when they read that in the Deseret News.  I
believe they would have felt very small; I 
know I would." "I am glad, my son, we do
not belong to hat honorable body, for we
would be in bad repute with your ma and
Aunt Katie." Here the young girl with the
blue eyes spoke. "Now, pa, you must not make
fun of ma and Aunt Eliza; you know they are
right, you are just as indignant as they are
sometimes.,' "True, my daughter, I am.  I
also think that many of the leading men of 
this nation are going mad over Mormonism."
"I think, pa, that men holding such responsible
positions should be very wise and good." "Yes, 
my daughter; they should not only be wise and
good, but they should adhere strictly to the
rules of the Constitution left us by our fathers."
"True, Edward," said Eliza, "but they do not;
and I think the policy of the leaders of our
nation is destructive to their own interests, for
when they take away our rights, it is but the
death knell of their own." "Pa, do you think
it is because of the plurality of wives that the
world speak evil of us?" "No, my son, the
world care nothing about plurality.  It is this 
latter-day work that they are arraying them-
selves against.  Their master, the evil one,
knows that his time is short, and he is stirring
up his most valiant emissaries to prolong his
rule; but he is short-sighted, and the very
course he takes to continue his reign only tends
to shorten it." "I think you are right, Ed-
ward; I often feel annoyed with the members
of Congress, and am surprised at their lack of
good common sense; but I realize that they are
used by the Lord to bring about His mighty
purposes. The world is fast going to decay.
The blood of Prophets and Apostles cries to the
Lord for vengeance.  I believe the time is
near when He will come and take vengeance
on the wicked."
	"Girls, did you read Mr. Mc.Bride's criti-
cism on Bro. Thatcher's article, published in the
Inter Ocean, and Apostle Thatcher's answer?"
"Yes, Edward," said Katie, "we did; and were 
very much surprised that an educated man and
an attorney should have written anything so
illogical and ungentlemanly.  Let me read a
little from his article." Here she rose and
came into the sitting room, took a copy of the
Deseret News from the table and returned.
"Listen, he says: 'It is not often that we bunch
the game so as to make one shot do effective
service, and now that the opportunity offers to
make Mr. Thatcher suffer for the Washington
Mormon agents in general, I propose to cruci-
fy this bantling of the crowd.  For him per-
sonally I have the same pity that follows weak
sinners who are the dupes of stronger men.
In the language of the Western Hunter, I do
not intend to leave enough of this normal of-
fender to warrant any effort to skin him for
future use by any one.' Mr. Mc.Bride further
states that although Brother Thatcher assumes
the authorship and responsibility of this letter,
it took ten or a dozen of our most talented men
to compose it.  But this is a sort of clap-trap
assertion to bias the minds of the readers of
the Inter Ocean against our worthy brother.  I
wonder who came to the assistance of Mr. Mc.-
Bride in getting up his violent tirade. The 
first part of his article appears to me like the
egotistic spluttering of an untutored school
boy. Instead of our brother being skinned, it
had no more effect upon him than the braying

[Column 2]
of an ungentlemanly d-o-n-k-e-y." Said Eliza,
"Only for truth's sake, and for the benefit of
the people generally did Apostle Thatcher con-
descend to notice this most conceited Shylock.
With what dignity does he answer the bom-
bastic charges of the learned attorney. No
slang. No threats. Sarcastic and satirical, I
will admit; but withal gentlmanly, and backed
up with undeniable facts—proving by living
records the truth of his statements. If such
are 'bantlings,' what giants in mind must be
our leaders who have reached maturity. On
the part of Mr. Mc.Bride, how full of low egot-
ism are the breathings of his pious soul." "Eli-
za, my wife, you state my sentiments exactly.
The attorney also charges the Mormons with
peculiarly enjoying the luxury of lying which
finds no illustration by others. He forgets that
he and his colleagues in Salt Lake have for
their organ the most filthy and untrouthful pa-
per on the earth." "Indeed they have, Ed-
ward, the attorney also doubts the assertion of
Apostle Thatcher, that thousands in Utah feel
contempt for his Honor, the Governor, and in-
sinuates that our feelings are more sinister than
mere contempt. Yet, notwithstanding the
great erudition and superior mathematical
qualifications of the handsome Murray, we
can assure the Hon. Mc Bride, that contempt
and pity are the only feelings the Latter-day
Saints have for his Excellency."
	Here Katie, whose blue eyes had been
sparkling with fun, started to her feet, said
she, "Listen; I am going to make a speech.
Now, Jenny, I am Mr. Mc.Bride, and you will
hear his sentiments.  I think I hear him now:
'Gentleman and Ladies:—You see be-
fore you the oldest of living bantams.  One
who knows the Mormons from beginning to
end, from the secrets of their Endowment
House to the innermost chambers of their ha-
rems.  Not that I was ever there, the Lord for-
bid; only I have been posted on these matters
by that much abused and virtuous woman, Ann
Eliza. I am, my brethren, by profession a
hard shelled Baptist; but being a lawyer I am
always on the qui vive to hunt up the myster-
ies of the kingdom. As I said before, I am a
hard shelled Baptist, and my pious soul yearns
for the flesh pots of Egypt. I lay awake nights
dreaming of the full coffers of the Mormon
treasury. I pray to my Lord, earnestly, that
I may be chosen one of the trustees of this
most abominable church; that I may fill my
pockets with her worthless gold and my house
with her beauteous daughters. Not, my be-
loved friends, that I love their filthy lucre, or
wish for the favors of the fair sex. No, my
respected friends, I am too lowly of mind and
too virtuous for that, but that I might be the
savor of life and salvation to these poor, be-
nighted people. So let us put on the armor of
David, our great ancestor, and with a sling and
a stone strike these modern Philistines in the
back part of their heads, that we may save their
money and women from further pollution. Let
Murray be our watchword, and, in the lan-
guage of the Western Hunter and that gigan-
tic cuttle fish, let us not leave these bantams
even their skin for fear they may appear as
the shadow of their former selves, to take away
our liberty and our rights." Here a little fel-
low of twelve years clapped his hands and
said, "Oh, pa, I wish Mr. Mc.Bride could hear
ma! I do not think he would talk any more
of things he knows nothing about." "My son,
I do not know whether you are competent to
make such an assertion." "Now, pa, you know
I can read very well. I received the first prize
for reading in my class; and when I hear ma
and Aunt Eliza talk of what is in the papers, I
read for myself; and I do not think people
would talk as they do if they knew more about
us." "I know, my son, you are a good reader,
but I did not think your young mind could grasp
so much; and I think you do not understand

[Column 3]
the craft of our enemies, nor can you compre-
hend the depths of the wickedness of these men
to pervert the truth." "The gentleman says,
pa, that our woman hold no property. Now,
I know that Brother H—has given all his
wives the deeds of their homes. And you
would do the same, pa, but we all live together
so you cannot.  No matter, for it all belongs
to ma and Aunt Katie, anyhow; eh, pa?" "I 
expect you are right, my son, they own the
home and us, too.  Not only Brother H—,
but hundreds of others have given deeds of
their homes to their wives; and so does this le-
gal gentleman know; but his memory is very
treacherous, as his article on the Mormon
problem plainly shows."
	As I listened to this spirited conversation,
and saw the flash of the eye, the curl of the
lip, the independent, dignified poise of the
heads of those plural wives, I was lost in
admiration, and thought that they needed no
pity from women who suppose themselves their
superiors.
	I was much amused at their sarcastic re-
marks, the contempt and fun they manifested
over the pros and cons of the press and the 
speeches of the members of Congress concern-
ing Utah, and the little fear they have in ref-
erence to their future. Trusting in God, they
manifested their patriotism, and an earnest de-
sire to obey all the laws given by the fathers
of this once free and happy country.  I could
not but think that men having such brave,
fearless, law-abiding, God-fearing wives and 
children must be worthy of being law-makers,
and consequently citizens of a state, instead of
disfranchised members of a territory.
To be Continued.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On Wednesday, July 30, a meeting was held
in the Eighth Ward Assembly Rooms, Sister
Esther B. Fletcher presiding. Bishop Sheets
and Counselor Mc.Murrain were on the stand,
also Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith, Phebe Wood-
ruff, M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, 
Bathsheba W. Smith and E.B. Wells. Sister
Catherine Palmer, Annie Cross and Jane Cow-
an, also occupied seats on the platform. Sev-
eral excellent speeches were made, and topics
of interest ably treated upon by the ladies who
addressed the meeting, and also by the Bishop
and his Counselor, who endorsed the remarks
that had been made, and also gave sound ad-
vice to mothers in regard to training their 
children At the close of the meeting all the
assembly sat down to a bounteous repast, which
had been prepared and arranged under the di-
rection of a committee of four, all ladies of 
tact and ability in this direction. Sisters Sar-
ah Jane Chamberlain, Jane Cowan, Mary Go-
lightly and Eliza P. Frost. The tables looked
very handsome; there were beautiful fresh flow-
ers and baskets of luscious fruits, snowy linen
and everything daintily set out, but the charm-
ing young girls who waited at table were more
beautiful to look upon than all the rest. There
were seven of them flitting about and making
a picture one would never tire looking at. The
whole affair was a most complete success, and
cannot fail to have a good effect upon all who
participated in the enjoyment of the reunion.
	We have reports from St. George, Sanpete
Stake and Salt Lake Stake that are crowded
out of this issue.
	A biographical sketch of Patty Sessions of
Bountiful will be commenced in our next num-
ber.
	By a letter from Sister M. A. Hyde of
Spring City, we learn that the next Conference
of Relief Society, Y. L. M.I A. and P.A. of
Sanpete Stake will be held at Fountain Green,
commencing the 12th of September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

	[Continued.]
Slowly she went; where next toil 
For shelter and for daily bread?
For ev’ry path seemed rank with sin,
	Virtue seemed helpless, vice her foe,
The skies were dark again o’erhead;
	“Father,” she prayed, “where shall I go?”

That night, within the humble room	
Where the few Saints in worship met,
'Twas asked, “How many can prepare
	To go to Zion far away?"
Her face with joyous tears was wet,
	“I’m ready, though it were to-day.”

For in her soul like hunger grew	
The wish to leave the world behind,
To gather to the fountain head
	And, ’mid congenial spirits, lend
Labors of hand and heart combined
	Towards the Gospel’s glorious end.

Without regret, with sacred joy,
She turned in sweet relief and rest;
Familiar faces, life-long scenes,
	Allurements, splendors, swiftly passed
Adown the stream, while upward pressed
	The bark in which her all was cast.

Ah, wondrous pilgrimage is this!
Stranger than Araby’s own charm
That leads the cloud-wrapt tribes;
	Not superstitious fear, but light, 
Leads them to God’s all-mighty arm
	From out the world’s long, weary night.

At last “the City of the Saints”		
Spread out before herlonging eyes,
And strangers met her, yet she knew
	That friendship in the Gospel’s bond
Was stronger far than kindred ties,
	And anchored in the great Beyond.

Friends came to meet the pilgrim Saints,
And as she gave the parting hand
To each, ’twas not with sadness, doubt;
	She knew the God that led her here,
All needful good for her had planned,
	And trusted Him with faith sincere.

Then the good missionary, that
Teacher and guardian had been,
Came with a lady.	’Twas a face
	Of noble beauty, tender, too;
'Sister Virginia, here’s a friend
	Extends a welcome unto you;

  Her home, companionship and care
Will meet your young life’s earnest need;
Trust in her counsel, for I know
	No kindlier heart, no nobler mind;
	In bearing, spirit, word and deed,
	True woman and true Saint combined.”

He led Virginia by the hand
To where the lady waited near,
And as she bowed, a white hand took
	Her own; a sweet voice gently said,
“Welcome to Zion, sister dear,”
	And to the waiting carriage led

The pilgrim girl.  “Brother, come, too.
Come spend the evening and relate
Your travels and your work, and help
	Our young friend here to ward away
The sense of desertion that plight await
	Since parting from her friends to-day.”

He bowed acceptance, turned and gave  
Some brief instruction to his men,  
Entered the carriage and they moved
	Out from the yard and down the street,
Past crowded marts of business, then
	Halted before a garden sweet

With blooming flowers and ample lawn;
In background rose an orchard old,
And ’round the cottage porch festooned
	Sweet honeysuckles; roses wreathed
Around the windows wide, and told 
	Home’s praise by ev’ry perfume breathed.

Standing beneath the group of trees 
Beside the gateway, this fair home 
Seemed to the weary wanderer
	The fairest spot on earth's brown breast;

[Column 2]
Here no regretful sigh should come,
	Ungrateful of its peace and rest.

Within, what comfort seemed to reach
From easy chairs and mellow light; 
The centre table well supplied,
	The autumn fire, that seemed to speak
Warmth and glad welcome, till the white'
	Rose turned to red upon her cheek.

Then, as the twilight deeper fell
And shadows lost themselves in shade,
Another entered.	Fond the smile
	That met his wife’s, with pleasure true
Welcomed the Elder home, and made
	Virginia feel as welcome too.


[Column 1]
	MEDITATIONS.

	I feel happy to-day while alone meditating
on the work of the Kingdom of God in this
dispensation. The more I think about it the
more beautiful it appears. I am led to say,
"God moves in a mysterious way," but when our
understandings are enlightened by the Spirit
of the Lord we can see things that we never
could have seen or understood. What would
the outside world give to-day if they could un-
derstand the principles of the Gospel as we do?
Would they seek to harm us? They would not.
Then ought we not to try and live in obedience
to the commandments of our Father in heaven?
Though all the world be arrayed against
us it does not hurt us in the least, or change
the belief of our knowledge of what we know
to be true. When our Father in heaven shows
us through the gift of His Holy Spirit that the
order of plural marriage is right and accept-
able in His sight, how can we say in our hearts
that we cannot comply with the commands of
that God, who holds and controls all things ac-
cording to His own will. Who has the right
on earth to question our Heavenly Father for
giving a revelation to His servant Joseph
Smith for His sons and daughters to obey, that
they might return to His presence from whence
they came? I can say with an honest heart
that that principle was made clear to my under-
standing by the spirit and power of the Holy
Ghost, and not by the preaching or teaching
of any human being. We cannot enter into
the presence of our Heavenly Father unless
we obey the celestial law when we have a
knowledge of it. And who in this wide
world has any right to trifle with our conscience?
I answer no one; and when they undertake to
try they never make any headway, and they
never will. The outside influence does not
trouble us. Why do our enemies try to frust-
trate the principles and desires of heaven? We
cannot help believing and putting into prac-
tice what we know to be true, and they are
throwing away time when they try to make us
comply with their wicked plans, for when the
Saints are filled and guided by the Spirit of the
living God and Father of our spirits, what
have we to fear? I say nothing but our own
dear selves, and if we all endeavor to save one
there is no cause for fear.
	There is no power beneath the heavens that
will prevent the Latter-day Saints from obey-
ing the order of celestial marriage, and from
living and increasing in numbers; nothing but
our own unfaithfulness will ever deprive us of
that great blessing, for it is a blessing above
anything that we can comprehend. 
	If we live true to the commandments of God
I think by the time they imprison a few more
of our brave young sisters they will find they
cannot make them afraid of anything. Young
sisters, be true to yourselves, your religion and
your God, and though all evil power may be
arrayed against you, not one hair of your head
shall be harmed.
	It is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to
send petitions up to our Heavenly Father in
behalf of breathren and sisters who are in bond-

[Column 2]
age for the Gospel's sake, that they may be
firm and strong in their determination never to
betray any of the Lord's anointed. Feel proud
that you are worthy to suffer tribulation for
the truth's sake. Know ye that your reward is
in heaven. Our enemies are in the hands of
God, and He will do with them as it pleaseth
him. He is the same God that delivered His
servant Daniel from the lion's mouth and the
three Hebrew children from the fiery furnace.
The time will come when the bonds will be
broken and prison doors be opened by the
Spirit and power of the Lord God of Israel,
and then, vain man, where will be your power
and your pride? It will fall to rise no more.
Our Heavenly Father fully understands your
plans, and He knows how to thwart them, for
He has done so in times past and He will con-
tinue to do so until the kingdoms of this world
are overthrown and become the kingdoms of
our Lord Jesus Christ, and the Saints of the
Most High God will possess the kingdom for
ever and ever, and this is why we can afford to
suffer persecution, and, like the Apostle Paul,
we rejoice in tribulation.
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
	Kaysville, June 8th, 1884,


We acknowledge receipt of the Circular of the
Brigham Young Academy for the Ninth Aca-
demic year, 1884—1885. The Circular gives
a Historical Review in brief of the institution
and specifies each department. Karl G. Maeser
is the Principal of the Academy, which is in
charge  of a Board of Trustees. This high
school is select and is one of the best in the
country, and should receive the patronage and
support of the people of the Territory.

	Sisters M. I. Horne, J. S. Richards and E.
S. Taylor have returned from an extended trip
through Sevier Stake, having held 22 meetings
and traveled by team 250 miles. In our next
we will try to give a sketch of their travels
and labors; also some others of the sisters' jour-
neyings among the people.

	Before his death Charles Reade wrote the
following epitaph, which is about to be placed
on his tomb:—
Here Lie,
By the side of his Beloved Friend, the mortal
remains of
CHARLES READE,
Dramatist, Novelist, and Journalist.
His last words to mankind are on this stone.

	I hope for a Resurrection, not from any
power in Nature, but from the Will of the
Lord God Omnipotent, Who made Nature and
me. He created Man out of Nothing, which
Nature could not. He can restore Man from
the Dust, which Nature cannot.
	And I hope for Holiness and Happiness in a
Future Life, not from anything I have aid or
done in the body, but from the Merits and Me-
diation of Jesus Christ.
	He has promised His Intercession to All
who Seek it, and He will not break His Word;
that Intercession once granted cannot be re-
jected for He is God, and His Merits Infinite:
A man's sins are but humble and finite.
	"Him that cometh to Me, I will in no wise cast out."
	"If any man sin we have an advocate with
the Father, Jesus Christ, the Righteous, and
He is the propitiation of our sins.”
	No one who knew Charles Reade will doubt
the sincerity of this profession of faith. It is
curious that he describes himself as dramatist
first.  His novels are his best works, but he
longed, above all things, for the fame of a play-
wright.”


36	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
﻿MRS. ANGIE F. NEWMAN'S CRUSADE
AGAINST THE MORMONS.

	Our readers will doubtless remember the
mention made in the EXPONENT of Nov. 15th
ult., of a meeting held in Cincinnati at which
Mrs. Angie F. Newman of Nebraska, spoke up-
on the Mormon question, and described the con-
dition of the women of Utah, thereby creating
"a strong feeling of interest in behalf of the
down-trodden, ignorant creatures," and quite a
large sum of money was raised for the purpose
of establishing an industrial school. Subse-
quently a petition was drawn up and on the 16th
of June, 1884, presented in the United States
Senate by Senator Hoar of Mass.
	In May, Mrs. Newman visited Salt Lake
City, and soon after her arrival called at this
office and also at the office of the Deseret News.
Immediately after receiving her we showed her
the EXPONENT which contained extracts from
the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette, and from
the Cincinnati Inquirer. She seemed surprised,
and after looking at the paper stated that she
obtained her information from Ann Eliza
Young, her books, etc., whereas in her lecture
in Cincinnati she said, "I have spent much time
in Utah." She denied having said, "Every
house in Utah is a house of prostitution." This
was all, however, that she declared to be un-
true in the reporter's statements.
	Mrs. Newman, in conversation, said she had
come to Utah to see for herself, and to examine
the subject and doctrines of the "Mormon"
Church. She is a very intelligent lady, a woman
of wealth, position and influence in the world,
and is no doubt capable of doing great good for
her own sex and in society if she would devote
her energies in the proper channel, but she has
taken hold of a matter she can never handle to
do herself any credit, nor will she do the women
of Utah any particular harm. Some very
pointed and spirited articles were written by
young women (plural wives), in answer to Mrs.
Newman, and were published in December and
January last in the EXPONENT. These papers
were sent to women of influence in the world
and to several members of Congress, in order
that the false statements which had been made
publicly might be refuted.
	When Mrs. Newman came here she was not
aware that the Latter-day Saint women knew
that she had lectured on their status and condi-
tion, and seemed much surprised that we knew
of it. She met, while in this office, Bishop O.
F. Whitney and Bishop H. B. Clawson, and
both these gentleman talked with her on the
subject in which she had manifested so much
interest. She said she should call again to have
some further conversation and to get informa-
tion on our subject, but she never came.
	I suppose her time was wholly occupied in cir-

[Column 2]
culating the petition she brought with her, and
in making the necessary arrangements for get-
ting the matter before Congress. No doubt she
received very efficient help from clergymen and
others here, for it seems she succeeded in her en-
terprise. Mrs. Newman knows very well that
the women of Utah do not need any assistance
such as she or her friends can render them, that
their condition is that of contentment and pros-
perity.
	We give below the petition in full, in order
that our readers may know its full intent. La-
dies interested in the suffrage movement in the
States have written us asking information con-
cerning the course pursued in Utah by the
women who favored this petition, and denounc-
ing in very strong terms the action on the part
of any woman to take away the right of suff-
rage.
	A leading woman in one of the most influ-
ential States in the union "denounces the Ed-
munds bill as the vilest outrage upon the Ameri-
can women, and one which deserves to be
stricken from the calendar of the United States
Congress."
	Another says, "Is it true that the opposing
women of Utah have asked such an outrage?"
and then asks for information concerning the
movements made, and so on.

ANTI--"MORMON" PETITIONS.

PETITION NO. 1.
PRESENTED IN THE U.S. SENATE, JUNE 16TH, 1884,
BY SENATOR HOAR.
TO THE HONORABLE THE SENATE AND HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED
STATES.

	At the last annual meeting of the Woman's
Home Missionary Society of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, held in Cincinnati, Ohio,
Nov. 13th, the following resolutions were adop-
ted.
	Resolved: That a Committee be appointed to
confer with the civil and religious of Salt Lake,
and to make careful investigation of the relation
of the ballot in the hands of the women of Utah,
to Territorial legislation and to Congressional
Representation at the National Capital, and
above all as to its power to perpetuate the reli-
gious bondage and domestic slavery of the
women so enfranchised, and if upon such con-
ference and examination, they shall find the
facts to warrant, they shall draft a petition to
Congress for the disfranchisement of the women
of Utah.
	The committee appointed in pursuance of the
above resolution, having made the investigation
required, find that the women of Utah were en-
franchised by an Act, approved February 12,
1871, that the Act was passed by the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, all the mem-
bers of that body being men high in authority
in the Mormon Church, and that it is the testi-
mony of reliable witnesses, of the Territory who
are familiar with the facts, that the authorities
of the Mormon Church placed the ballot in the
hands of the women of Utah for the sole pur-
pose of neutralizing the votes of non-Mormons,
who at the date of this Act were settling in this
Territory in considerable numbers. The com-
mittee likewise find that under the provisions
of this Act aforesaid, which makes the wife of
a native born or naturalized citizen a legal voter,
foreign born women who have married citizens
within a few days or weeks of their arrival in
Utah are permitted to vote at elections occuring
less than six months after their arrival in this
country, and that many votes are thus cast at
every election by foreign born women who are
wholly ignorant of our institutions and laws,
and in many cases of our language. No subse-
quent law has changed these conditions except

[Column 3]
under the rulings of the Utah Commission they
must be six months resident. This committee
also find that the Mormon women thus enfran-
shised are bound by obligations which they con-
sider sacred to obey the authorities of the Mor-
mon Church in things temporal as well as spir-
itual, and that to cast a vote in opposition to the
will of these authorities is to incur the penalty
of excommunication. They also find that the
laws of Utah, which deprive the wife of the
right of dower, and of any claim upon the prop-
erty or earnings of her husband, give the hus-
band the power to punish the wife for disobedi-
ence, by depriving her of a home and of the
means of support; and as this power is and has
been exercised to compel women to submit to
to the introduction of plural wives into the
household, it is not reasonable to suppose that
a wife will risk the loss of a home and the
means of support by voting in opposition to the
commands of her husband and the authority of
the Church. The committee find further that
as a consequence of the subjection in which
Mormon women are held, they vote as a unit for
the men selected by the Church to fill all the
offices in the gift of the people. Should the act
conferring suffrage upon the women of Utah be
annulled, the power of the Mormon leaders
would be weakened by the loss of about 12,000
voters, and it would be possible in some instan-
ces to elect as county officers and members of
the Legislative Assembly, men who do not owe
primary allegiance to the Mormon Church. Un-
der existing conditions Mormon women perpet-
uate their own slavery by voting only for men
who can be relied upon to carry out the will of
the First Presidency of the Church. As mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly, and as county
and municipal officers, these men clothe the ex-
actions of the Church with the forms of law,
and cement the union of Church and State, and
through their Delegate to Congress and other-
wise they persistently oppose any legislation de-
signed to lessen the power of the Mormon
Priesthood. For the reasons above given your
petitioners therefore pray that the act conferring
the right of suffrage upon the women of Utah
be annulled.
	The names attached to this paper represent at
least 250,000 women of the different Christian
denominations in this country, through the offi-
ces of the several benevolent and philanthropic
associations included in the list.

PETITION NO 2.

Was presented in the Senate June 19, 1884, by
Senator Hoar.
	It is the same petition as No. 1, but signed
Mrs. Angie F. Newman, Supt. of Mission work
of the M. E. Church, Utah Territory.


OLD FOLKS EXCURSION, 1884.

	On the 22nd of July the Old Folks Excursion,
which, by the way, has come to be a regular
yearly occurence, went to American Fork.
There were about 600 passengers on board, and
plenty of cars to seat all comfortably and to take
on passengers at the several stations along the
route.
	The committee, of whom Elder C. R. Savage
is now acting chairman, In the absence of Elder
George Goddard, were in glorious spirits, and
determined the old folks should have a gala day.
An old folks choir (of young folks) led by W. H.
Foster, were on board and passed from one car
to another singing familiar, old fashioned songs
and melodies to gladden the hearts of the aged
veterans.
	The oldest lady on the train was Sister Mary
Bishop of the 10th Ward, aged 96 years, and the
oldest man brother, James Burgon of Union,
aged 91, Sister Almira Covey of the 12th Ward,


widow of Bishop Covey of this city, was remark-
able as being the oldest living member of the
Church now known; she was baptized in August,
1830, by David Whitmer, and confirmed by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was her own
cousin.
	Father Wilder, who is now a centurian, was
not quite equal to the journey this time, and
dear old Bishop Hunter, who has always before
seemed to appreciate the Old Folk's Excursion so
much, and thoroubhly enjoy the society of the
aged, has passed away since the last trip of the
company.
	All over ninety wore a badge of white ribbon,
over eighty wore blue, over seventy, red. There
were a considerable number wearing the blue,
and a great many wore red.
	Arrived at the depot the American Fork and
Pleasant Grove brass bands greeted the com-
pany with some soul-stirring music. Bishop
Bromley and his committee were on hand to
convey the people to Chipman's Grove, a short
distance away. On the route ten arches had
been erected, and covered with green boughs
and vines, and bearing the inscription, "Honor
to the Old Folks," "Welcome," etc. The grove
had been cleared and prepared with tables and
benches, also a platform and bowery for the
speakers, by a hundred and thirty young men
of the Y. L. M. I. A., under the direction of
Wm. W. Hunter, son of the late Bishop
Hunter.
	The exercises at the grove were very brief,
but pointed and spirited, calculated to bless and
comfort the aged. After singing and prayer
there was an address of Welcome by Bishop
Bromley, which was warm and heartfelt and
calculated to make all feel at home. Prest.
Angus M. Cannon made a very happy patriotic
speech, one that every good and loyal citizen
might respond to from his innermost soul. He
touched a very tender cord in the breasts of the
pioneer settlers of Utah. Apostle George Teas-
dale spoke forcibly and feelingly, and invoked
the blessing of God to descend upon the assem-
bly. T. A. Lyne, the veteran actor, once so
great a favorite on the boards of the Theatre, re-
cited a scene from William Tell, with a great deal
of the old fire and zeal in his manner, and indeed
it seemed an appropriate rendering. The meet-
ing was dismissed with singing and prayer, and
the committee distributed prizes to the oldest
and those who were in any special manner enti-
tled to the honor. The prizes consisted of para-
sols, canes, hats, collars, teapots, dress patterns,
handkerchiefs, neckties, tea, tobacco, wine, and
various other things. The donations had been
liberal and the committee seemed well posted on
the matter of distribution. Good humor and
mirth prevailed and all was done quietly and in
good order.
	The "Old Folks' Committee" are a very effi-
cient body and certainly deserve great credit for
the very able manner in which they conduct
these large excursions of aged people. All re-
turned home feeling satisfied and contented
with the exercises and enjoyment of the pleas-
ant day spent in each others' society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 37


AN OPEN LETTER.

	Dear lady Homespun! and all the dear sisters
who sent in their names a short time ago as a
memorial of their appreciation of the humble
den of Hannah T. King:
	I have now published an Epic Poem; being a
brief history of the Church of Jesus Christ
from its first organization to the landing of the
Saints upon the site where now stands the me-
tropolis of Utah, i. e., "the modern Mecca"—
and I take my pen to solicit your patronage of
the same. You'll say, "Give some people an


inch and they take an ell." My version is that
kindness and appreciation breeds confidence
and affection. Now for the pith of this letter.
Will you, my dear sisters, each take a book?
Price twenty-five cents only, which will be a
mighty help to me in paying for the printing of
the book, and I’ll insure you a blessing for the
same. I have some bound at fifty cents. Those
at twenty-fine cents are prettily gotten up, will
look well on any drawing-room table, and
the inside will pay for peeping.
		Ever your grateful sister,
					HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
OUR NATION PAST AND PRESENT.

DEAR EDITOR:
	In taking a retrospective view of this nation's
history, and comparing the past with the pres-
ent, we are led to exclaim, "How the mighty
have fallen!" Yes, fallen from that standard
of broad, liberal, spirited patriotism and freedom
and love of the principles of equal rights, that
animated the founders of this great nation. My
mind travels back to the day that Patrick Henry
made his speech which secured the signing of
the Declaration of Independence. I can picture
in my mind the scene, when men were ready to
lay down their lives to secure unto posterity the
heavenly boon of freedom; when every breath
was, as it were, hushed, and the moment came
for the Committee of Three to present the docu-
ment to be signed. What an awful moment!
What a responsibility! Yet did they falter? For
a moment only. While looking at the magni-
tude of the struggle that would ensue, and, see-
ing in case of failure, the axe, the scaffold and
the gibbit, then every man was ready to sign.
I can picture the scene when the fierce, bold
voice of Patrick Henry rang through the assem-
bly, making men start to their feet, and the fire
of freedom and independence to course through
their veins, and the inspiration of God to impel
them to sign. Yes, the Almighty ruler of the
heavens and earth caused the men on that day
to be filled with inspiration and sign that parch-
ment, not only for themselves, but for all ages;
that it should be a test-book of freedom; the
Bible of the rights of man forever.
	It was inspiration that caused Patrick Henry
to implore them to remember that God had giv-
en America to be free. Then mark the struggle
that ensued to raise the standard of liberty and
freedom on this continent. Look at the battles
fought, the blood that was shed, and the perils
and hardships of the unequal contest to give the
American people the right to make their own
laws, to select their own officers, and to have a
voice in the counsels of their common country;
to stand on God's earth free men and women,
and cleave to the principles of the Constitution
which gave them that right. We honor the
men that have bequeathed unto posterity this
heavenly boon, and we, as a people, will stand
by the principles of freedom and equal rights,
the Constitution in its purity, as it was handed
down to us by the men that fought and died for
union and liberty.
	Let the men that hold the reins of govern-
ment pause, reflect and compare the present
corrupt condition of the nation with the past;
and above all they should remember that they
will be held accountable for the trust reposed in
them, for the faithful performance of their duty
as the servants of the people; let them remem-
ber their oath of office, as the custodians of the
people's rights, and not treat as enemies the
most loyal people that America can boast. How
can they, with the fact before them, when they
know that we are a law-abiding people, presume
to put their feet upon the necks of the people
and conceive a paragraph of a law like the fol-

[Column 2]
lowing, which takes the elective franchise out
of the hands of the Territorial Legislature, and
the right of suffrage of the women of this Terri-
tory is revoked. The Probate court is divested
of all jurisdiction over the estates of deceased
persons, that rightful heirs under existing laws
may be dispossessed of their inheritances. The
act of incorporation of the Church of the Lat-
ter-day Saints is so far annulled as to bring a
purely religious establishment under the politi-
cal management of trustees, to be appointed by
the President of the United States. What a
condesention! What liberty! What mockery!
Where can you find such oppression, such per-
version of the true principles of freedom. We
find that one of the complaints made against
the rule of England by our revolutionary fathers
was, "For abolishing our most valuable laws,
and altering the forms of our own government;
for suspending our legislatures and declaring
themselves invested with power to legislate for
us."
	That is the stand Mr. Hoar takes in his bill.
He thinks himself capable of legislating and
regulating the local laws of a community that
he knows nothing about. He is entirely at fault
with regard to enactments on our Statute books.
These Congressmen talk about ignorance in
Utah, but by comparing notes they can find
enough of it nearer home. When men that
hold the reins of government and the destiny
of this Republic in their hands are so ignorant
and blind to the interests of the country as to
establish a precedent that is a deadly thrust at
the fundamental principles of freedom, like the
one which they are trying to force upon the peo-
ple of this Territory, I think it shows an igno-
rance that would be inexcusable in a schoolboy,
much less in the rulers of the nation. As these
measures will not be confined to this Territory
whenever it seems expedient to the dominant
power to crush some obnoxious section of the
country, that precedent will be used for that pur-
pose, and a committee will be established, as
they have a "technical right" to take possession
of our property, and appoint a committee to use
it in whatever way they may think proper.
	What are they to do with Article 14, Section
1 of the Constitution, which says, "All persons
born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States, and of the State wherein
they reside. No State shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the priviliges or
immunities of citizens, nor shall any State de-
prive any person of life, liberty, or property, nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the law."
	How can men, with the Constitution before
them as a guide, seek to establish principles and
precedents that are diametrically opposed to the
principles of freedom, and that have within
them the seeds of revolutionary and seditious
elements that will engender civil war if carried
into effect, destroy the confidence of the nation
and undermine the very foundations of the
union.
	We, the ladies of Utah, tender our thanks to
the honorable men that have dared, in the face
of prejudice, and the popular clamor, to raise a
voice in behalf of our franchise, as we claim
that we have not forfeited our right to the bal-
lot, and we claim by the Constitution in Section
9, that "no bill of attainder or ex-post facto law
shall be passed." And we, as citizens and lov-
ers of justice and equity, admire the bold and
determined stand that has been taken by some
of the noble minded to maintain the principles
of the Constitution, and to protect the people in
their rights and privileges,
	We put our trust in God our Heavenly Father,
we have faith in Him, for we know that in His


own due time He will deliver us from the power
of our enemies. We are the sincere followers of
our Savior. He was reviled and persecuted, and
His sufferings were so great that He sweat drops
of blood, and He cried unto His Father in His
anguish that if it were possible for the cup to
pass by, "But not my will be done, but Thine."
We know the time is not far distant when the
wicked and ungodly shall be swept from the
face of the earth, and we are willing to suffer
that we may gain an eternal weight of glory in
the Kingdom of God.
	Praying for the triumph of truth over error,
and right over might, I am,
		Your sister in the cause of truth,
					SARAH A. FULLMER.


38	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM LETTER, LAIE,
OAHU.

	I went to Sunday School with the children
this morning at 8 o'clock and to meeting at 10.
Brother Wilcox seems quite surprised at the
good order that is kept in the Sunday School,
etc. Morris has been gone now three weeks to-
day from Laie. I have heard from him two or
three times since he left, and he is getting along
as well as can be expected when traveling
among the natives.
	I received the things you sent, and we are all
delighted with them. They are just what we
needed, and just the fit. I thank you very
much for my presents, also Aunt Eliza; please
tell her. I took the little card she sent me for a
book mark to Sunday School, and some of the
brethren remarked about my nice present, and
of course it was just from Utah.
	Brothers Wilcox, Hyde and Tilby have just
been in for a few minutes. They are going to
visit some of the natives at their home meet-
ings. We had a very pleasant evening last
night, for it was the birthday of one of the
young missionaries, so we got up a little pro-
gramme consisting of singing, reciting, music,
etc., and we all enjoyed ourselves.
	Half past 10 o'clock. Just come from meet-
ing, which was held at the big house. While I
was writing to-day Brother and Sister Wilcox
came for me to take a walk, so I took the child-
ren and we all went for a stroll and did not get
back till dark, so it was impossible for me to fin-
ish writing, for as soon as I got through with
my bread and milk supper, it was meeting time.
The mail came to-night after meeting and I was
very much disappointed in not receiving any
mail, but when I looked the paper through and
found the heading of an article "Gathering of
the Snows," I felt quite comforted, and greatly
enjoyed reading and re-reading it, and imagined
you must have had an excellent time; and I
thought how I should like to have dropped in
and looked at you all for a minute, if I could do
it without neglecting my duty, but "Thy will,
O Lord, not mine, be done." I am glad I am
where I am, and thank God that I am counted
worthy to be among those who are willing to go
forth and work in His cause, which is indeed a
great one; and my greatest desire is that God
will bless me with sufficient of His Holy Spirit
to enable me to stand the trials that are placed
before me with a cheerful and humble heart,
feeling to say in my heart at all times "Father,
not my will, but Thine be done," and ever
praying for His Holy Spirit to guide me in the
right path and strengthen me, that I may be
able to do good and do my duty while I am here
on these Islands, and still continue with me
that I may ever be found doing good in God's
Kingdom. I had better close for the night for
it is getting late. Good night, and I ask God to
bless you.
	Tuesday 27th, twenty-five minutes after 8

[Column 2]
o'clock. Just come from prayers—been sewing
a little to day and talking with Sister Wilcox.
Sister Partridge and I have also practiced, with
the Primary children, some songs this afternoon.
Yesterday I spent with the children a few hours
in the forenoon, upon one of our little mounds,
studying Hawaiian. In the afternoon we went
to meeting, and we had a splendid little meet-
ing. I was really proud of our little native
children. When called on to read or sing they
would walk up to their places with such prompt-
ness and perform their parts well. One little
boy, who is quite smart, and has a good voice
for singing, who has been considerable trouble
to us, walked up and sang so nicely and took
such interest in answering with the others the
questions we put to them from the book,
"Bible Questions and Answers." I feel that the
Spirit of the Lord was really with us, and I hope
He will still continue to aid us with His Holy
Spirit, also these little ones, and I feel that He
will.
	The children are sleeping, but they wanted me
to say for them that they sent lots of kisses to
Aunt Eliza and grandma, and thank you for
their presents.
	The mail leaves here to-morrow for Honolulu,
and I am in some hopes of getting a letter or two
to-morrow when the mail comes in. I sewed
some on the machine last week—made three
cart covers—something similar to wagon covers
—for the mission, and the next morning they
sent me over a little piece of pig meat, the first
meat we have had for two weeks. We are liv-
ing very scant now, but I feel that we ought to,
for it costs a good deal just for the little we get,
and I pay my boy $2.00 a month for milking,
bringing the water and chopping the wood; but
since Morris has been gone we have spent very
little, and I keep track of every cent I spend,
and my flour and sugar have lasted much longer
than I thought they could; but I can see in so
many little ways that the Lord is watching over
us and blessing us, for which I thank Him
ever.
	It is now after 9 o'clock and I must go to bed,
but I must tell you first how nicely the children
take their turns in praying with me when we
have our morning prayers, which we have every
morning.
					ALMIDA SNOW YOUNG.


[Column 1]
R S.,Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
OGDEN CITY.

	Our Conference was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle June 20th, 1884, commencing at 10
a.m., conducted by our beloved President, Jane
S. Richards, with her Counselors, Hattie C.
Brown and Sarah I. Herrick. We had the
company of Apostle F. D. Richards, President
L. W. Shurtliff and wife, President Eliza R.
S. Smith; Treasurer Melissa Hall, Brothers W.
G. Child, Mark Hall, Bro. Garner, Bishop
Maycock and others; also Presidents of branch
societies.
	After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes, etc., President
Jane S. Richards made a few opening remarks,
expressing her great joy in again meeting with
her beloved brethren and sisters. Felt that
they had met for the purpose of diffusing
knowledge one to another. Spoke of the won-
derful goodness of the Lord unto us as a peo-
ple; hoped we would gain strength and comfort
thereby to go on rejoicing in the good work we
have begun etc.
	Our much beloved President, Eliza R. S.
Smith gave us, as usual, much wise instruction
in regard to the sublime principles of our holy
religion. Referred to the judgments of the
Lord coming upon those who refused to do His

[Column 2]
will and were enemies to the cause of truth.
She felt sorry and grieved to hear of the dis-
asters and trouble that were befalling many
places in the world. Exhorted us to live near
to God, to teach the young and rising genera-
tion to have great faith in the God of Israel;
train them more in the ways of the Lord, cul-
tivate their minds and hearts to higher and
nobler thoughts and aims, and not so much in
the fashions and follies of the day. Spoke con-
siderably upon the youth of Zion; knew the
Lord would have a tried people, but we would
yet be free, and God will reign over us. Let
us grow better day by day that we can stand
with Christ our elder brother when He ap-
pears.
	President L. W. Shurtliff felt to endorse all
that had been said by those who had spoken.
He took great pleasure in meeting with the
Saints of God. Referred briefly to the educa-
tion and cultivation of the young people of
Utah. Also spoke of the great and noble
work of womankind, etc.
	Apostle F. D. Richards spoke principally
upon the law and order of tithing and of mar-
riage, and the great work devolving upon the
Saints in regard to the dead as well as the liv-
ing. Thought that all had a work to perform
in the Temple, and not to put it off while the
day lasts, for none of us know how soon we
may depart this life. It is our duty to do all
we can for the dead while we are upon this
stage of life. He also quoted from different
parts of Scripture.
	The morning service closed with singing the
following:

l had a dream the other night; I saw some wonderful
		things:
I saw the end of nations, likewise kingdoms and kings;
I saw the Savior come, for the time was nigh at hand,
He did descend from heaven to earth with all His holy
		band.

Before He reached the earth I heard a shout so great:
Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go, ye virgins, Him to
		meet.
Behold some were foolish, the others they were wise,
Their lamps were trimmed; they left the earth to meet
		Him in the skies.

The foolish then in anguish cried, oh, whither shall we
		go?
The wise have gone to meet Him and left us here below.
Oh, sell of your oil, they cried, that we with you may
		dwell.
The answer that the wise gave them, we have no oil to
		sell.

I saw the wicked’s destruction; It was a sight to see;
From the presence of Jehovah they knew not where to
		flee;
They called for rocks to fall on them, but, alas, they
		called in vain;
By the brightness of His glory the wicked were all
		slain,

"This time I saw Him coming; it was not as before;
The whole creation trembled, the Saints did Him adore;
He came, He came in glory, with healing in His wings;
He came as King of Israel, to reign as King of Kings."
	The afternoon session commenced with sing-
ing and prayer. Presidents of the various
branch societies then gave a very favorable re-
port of each respective society, followed by
Counselors Hattie C. Brown and Sarah I. Her-
rick. Each bore a faithful testimony to the
work of God.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith again spoke on
many interesting subjects. Touched upon
character, conscience, the work for our dead,
the law and order of tithing, and its being
taught to children, and many other things, ex-
plaining each subject in a beautiful and accept-
able manner to the Saints, who listened with
great joy and satisfaction. Sister Eliza occu-
pied one hour, lacking five minutes, in the
afternoon. All present felt that the Spirit of
the Lord rested upon her to a great extent.
Long may she live to be a shining light among
the Saints of God.


﻿Apostle F. D. Richards also gave much
wise counsel and instruction to those present
in regard to the various duties they were called
upon to perform, blessing the congregation in
the name of the Lord and exhorting them to
be faithful and true to their religion.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith then gave in the
resignation of Sister Sarah J. Herrick as Sec-
ond Counselor to Sister Richards. Sister Her-
rick being President of the Young Ladies' As-
sociations of Weber Stake of Zion, felt that it
was her duty to give them more of her
thoughts and time, and to do this it was neces-
sary on account of her multiplicity of cares,
etc., to tender her resignation.
	Sister Smith then asked if this resignation
would be accepted by the sisters. It was
accepted, after which Sister Emily Shurtliff
was unanimously voted for to take the place of
Second Counselor.
	We regret that Sister Herrick has deemed it
necessary to resign her position. She has been
Counselor to Sister Richards for many years,
and has been a diligent co-worker with her
in every duty. She is beloved by all who
know her.
	After a few closing remarks from Sister
Richards conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing and benediction.
					MONTA HARRIS,
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 39


[Column 1]
TRIBUTE OF ESTEEM.

TO MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.

	On the evening of June 21st ult., there was
a very large and pleasant gathering at the resi-
dence of Apostle F. D. Richards in Ogden, as
a sort of friendly farewell to Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, who had very ably and happily filled
several important offices in connection with
the young people of that stake of Zion. The
Presidents of the Y. L. M. I. A., and many of
the members were present, as well as the fami-
ly and Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith of this city.
Mrs. Richards was presented with a large and
elegant photograph album by the Ward Asso-
ciation over which she had presided so efficient-
ly. Miss Emily Newman, the Secretary, then
read the following testimonial:

SISTER EMILY S. RICHARDS,

Late President of the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Association in the Second
Ward of the Weber Stake of Zion:

	Dear Sister: Since, in the providences of
our Heavenly Father, you have been called
with your family to remove from this city to
the capital of the Territory, we desire to ex-
press, if it be but briefly, yet earnestly, our
heartfelt appreciation of yourself personally,
and of your faithful, diligent, and unceasing
labors while with us as President of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of
the Second Ward.
	It is, therefore, with pleasure and with pride
that we can and do bear testimony that your
course of conduct and daily walk of life have
ever been in harmony with your precepts, and
in consonance with the excellent teachings,
counsels and instructions we have received
from you in our Association assemblies, all of
which have been of an elevating tendency, be-
ing inspired by the spirit and power of the Ho-
ly Ghost. Whenever we have followed im-
plicitly your counsels, we have enjoyed the
communion of the Holy Ghost, and the bless-
ings of God our Heavenly Father, for, guided
by them, we have realized that we have walked
in the paths of duty, and in the ways of pleas-
antness and peace.
	Your ever-welcome presence and agreeable
companionship have always inspired us with
happiness, and the many kind words which

[Column 2]
have fallen from your lips have infused a new
life, cheered the drooping spirit, and the des-
pondent soul has been lifted up, encouraged,
and impelled to renewed efforts to climb the
steep hill, to walk with firmer footsteps the rug-
ged road that leads to God, and to earnestly
fight the battles of life, as well as the fight of
faith in order to win the crown of righteous-
ness which is reserved for all who shall over-
come the world, its sins, and all its allure-
ments.
	Your earnest work to promote the best in-
terest of the Association, we are sure, has been
like seed sown on good ground and has brought
forth fruits mete for, and acceptable to, the
Master of the Harvest Field; while your anx-
ious solicitude to raise funds to redeem as
many as possible of your sisters from Babylon
and bring them to Zion's peaceful vales, where
they can find rest, peace, and protection, and
where they can be instructed more fully in the
laws of the Lord, have won for you the kind
feelings and pure affections of grateful hearts,
in which your name will be cherished and em-
balmed while ever gratitude is a virtue and
memory and reason hold their throne.
	But, dear sister, we do not desire to multiply
words; hence we will now say briefly, but em-
phatically, that your entire course, during your
presidency over our Association is fully in-
dorsed by us all, and we shall ever continue to
entertain for you that pure affection which
binds together the hearts of the members of
the household of God in bonds that are strong-
er than death
	Accept, then, dear sister Emily, these our af-
fectionate tributes of our grateful hearts, and
believe us when we say, that wherever your
lot may be cast you will be remembered by us,
and our earnest prayers to our Heavenly Fa-
ther will ascend that He will bless you with
the blessings of the heavens above, of the earth
that lieth beneath, that you may enjoy health,
peace, prosperity, and happiness during the re-
mainder of your mortal career; and when you
have finished life's labors here, that you be
crowned with exaltation and eternal life in the
Celestial Kingdom of God.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel of
Jesus Christ,
THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE AS-
SOCIATION.

	Sister Richards was very deeply affected by
the expression of esteem and love from her
young friends and associates, and although ta-
ken by surprise, responded in the most graceful
manner, and assured her friends that she
should ever cherish in her heart a tender feel-
ing for those with whom she had been so pleas-
antly associated.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith made a few appropri-
ate remarks and commended the beautiful sen-
timents contained in the testimonial, and felt
that it was truly merited by Sister Emily,
whose labors were well worthy of recognition.
	Elder F. S. Richards, in a few words, ex-
pressed his good feelings and appreciation of
the honor extended to his wife, and that it was
a source of infinite satisfaction to know that she
has won so many true friends, who were eager
to express their gratitude for her labors in the
Association.
	Apostle F. D. Richards thanked the young
ladies for the love and respect evinced for Sis-
ter Emily, felt it was a mark of esteem to him-
self, as she was a member of his family, and
gave some good advice and encouragement.
	Other suitable remarks were made by Sisters
S. A. Herrick, E. Y. Stanford, R. E. Monch,
Prest. Jane S. Richards, Prest. Mary Ann Ri-
ley, Bishop Thomas Wallace, Elders. L. F.
Monch and Joseph Hall. A bounteous supper
had been prepared by the young ladies, and
between forty and fifty partook of the delicious
rep[--]t.

[Column 3]
	The evening was quickly spent in the de-
lights of social conversation, interchange of
ideas and expressions of sincere friendship, and
at midnight the gathering broke up with a fer-
vent God bless you and good-bye for a little
season to Sister Emily, who gratefully ac-
knowledged her appreciation of their courtesies
and attention.


ORGANIZATION.

	The sisters of the Eleventh Ward met in
the ward Assembly Hall July 1st, 1884, at 2
p.m,, pursuant to adjournment, present: Prest.
A. M. Cannon, Bishop Mc.Rae, Counselors,
Joseph Felt and Robert Morris, and forty-nine
sisters. Sang, "O, give me back my Prophet
dear;" prayer by Counselor Morris; singing
"Sweet is the work, my God, my King." Min-
utes of preliminary meeting read and accepted.
Sister Margaret Mc.Master, in behalf of a com-
mittee appointed by the sisters last meeting to
wait upon Sister Eunice Mc.Rae to request her
to accept the Presidency, reported that they
waited upon her, and, while she appreciated the
kindness of her sisters, felt the responsibility
was more than she wanted to assume. Bishop
Mc.Rae reported that she declined to act as her
health was not good. The sisters were re-
quested to select another, but they preferred the
Bishop to appoint. After consulting with Prest.
Cannon, he nominated Sister Margaret Mc.-
Master as President of the Eleventh Ward Re-
lief Society, which was carried unanimously.
Prest. Mc.Master selected Sisters Jane Law-
son and Sarah Sears as her Counselors, who
were also unanimously accepted.
	Prest. Cannon gave the sisters excellent
counsel, and exhorted them to obedience; said
the Bishop was the head of the Ward.
	Bishop Mc.Rae was pleased with the meet-
ing and gave good advice to the sisters, and
exhorted them to be kind and look out for the
wants of the poor, and not to speak evil of one
another. Also spoke of his imprisonment with
the Prophet Joseph.
	Prest. Mc.Master felt unequal to the respon-
sibility, but would do her best.
	Counselors Jane Lawson and Sarah Sears
spoke of their weakness, and would do their
utmost.
	Counselor Joseph Felt spoke and gave good
counsel. The brethren then retired, leaving
the sisters to select others. Adjourned to July
7th.				MARIAH B. FORD.
							Secretary.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	It is a long time since you have heard from
the Smithfield Relief Society, but we are try-
ing to live up to the mission we were organized
for, assisting the poor and the aged, caring for
the sick, and striving to do good to all. Sister
Adeline Barber is our energetic and kind
President, and to show her that we appreciate
her labors, in connection with the Primary As-
sociations of this county, of which she is First
Counselor to the stake president, we got up a
surprise for her on the 26th of January, as that
was her fiftieth birthday. Sister Jane Molen,
President of the Stake Primary Associations,
and Sister Kirby of Hyde Park, were present,
and though they were bowed down with grief
on account of severe sickness and death in the
family of Sister Molen's sister of Hyde Park,
still they gave words of cheer and encourage-
ment to live our religion, perform our many
duties, serve and trust God in all things.
	An address on Prest. Barber's fiftieth birth-
day, by Sister Martha Williams, and a piece
(entitled) "Friendship," by Sister Sarah A.
Merrill were read in behalf of the Relief So-


ciety. A piece of poetry by Sister Martha
Williams was recited in an able manner by her
little daughter Gertie in behalf of the Primary.
Some pretty and useful presents were then giv-
en to Sister Barber from the Relief Society
and Primary Association. Several other Prim-
ary Associations joined with them in testifying
of their love and respect for her. Prest. Bar-
ber replied in an appreciative and feeling
speech, thanking the sisters and the children
for their good feelings expressed for her. All
passed off pleasantly, and the sisters feel well
and united.
	Wishing the EXPONENT success in dissemi-
nating the truth, and in showing to the world
that the women of Utah are able to take care
of themselves without any outside help,
	I remain, your sister and co-worker,
				ELIZABETH J. JUSHAW.
Smithfield, Feb. 18th, 1884.


40	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY PARTY.

	The Primary of Union Ward met at nine
o'clock, June 2nd, 1884. After the usual ex-
ercises were over we had an excellent pro-
gramme, after which the children marched to
the residence of Sarah A. Forbush, who has
been their President for four years, but since
the death of her husband has been released
from the presidency on account of her other
responsibilities. The children wished to show
their appreciation for her kindness while with
them; they sang hymns with many voices and
madeher heart glad;she was then presented with
the sum of ten dollars. Dinner was prepared
for all, and the afternoon spent in dancing.
Our children are happy in well doing.
		ANN H. GREENWOOD, President,
		MARY A. BALL,
		E. RICHARDSON, Counselors.


We intend hereafter that each issue of the
paper shall contain a synopsis of the semi-
monthly meetings in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, as they have an important bearing upon
the general work of the Associations.


IN MEMORIAM.

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF ELIZABETH F. HANSON.

	It is always painful to part with those we love. An-
other bright, precious jewel has been called away from
earth. Sister Elizabeth F. Hanson, wife of Abraham
J. Hanson, and daughter of Sophia Smith and the late
John Smith, died June 16th, 1884. She was born in
Spanish Fork, Utah Co., Utah, Feb. 11th, 1863. Though
her days were not many on this earth, none could have
spent them any better than she did. As a daughter
and wife she was loving, persevering and kind, and
would often say to her aged mother, "Mother, you rest
and let me work." She was First Counselor to Mary J.
Brockbank, President of the Young Ladies Association,
and was always punctual to her duties, and never failed
to perform any exercise she was called upon to perform;
her kind and gentle way seemed to win many to the
cause of truth and righteousness, for she was gifted in
speaking and writing; one of her pieces was published
in the EXPONENT not long ago; many others were just
as good that she wrote from time to time to strengthen
her sisters in good works. She was also a faithful
teacher in the Sabbath School.
	Her departure was sudden, being sick but a few days,
when her pure spirit returned to the Father who gave it.
Doc. and Cov., page 237, 49th verse says, "Yea, and
blessed are the dead that die in the Lord from hence-
forth, when the Lord shall come and old things shall
pass away and all things become new, they shall rise
from the dead and shall not die after, and shall receive
an inheritance before the Lord in the holy city."

VERSES COMPOSED BY SISTER HANNAH CORNABY.

Elizabeth has gone and left
	Her bright example here,
And those who knew her faithful life
	Will hold her memory dear.


﻿Although her mortal life was short,
	And much of pain she knew,
In patience she her sufferings bore
	And still was firm and true.

The love of God within her heart
	Made all her duties light,
Now in far happier scenes she dwells,
	And walks in robes of white

With those, who like her, kept the faith
	The Gospel light restored,
Having gained the victory over death
	Through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Oh, happy thought! we, too, may gain
	The presence of our God
If we, by strict obedience here,
	Hold fast the iron rod.

Our sister does not need our tears;
	She seems to say to all,
"Be up and doing, death may come,
	Be ready for his call."

We bow to God our Father's will,
	And humbly ask that He
May comfort all her mourning friends
	That they His hand may see.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His al-
wise Providence to call from our midst by the hand of
death our much beloved sister and counselor, Elizabeth
F. Hanson,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Young Ladies' Association, do deeply sympathize with
the bereaved husband, mother and relatives, in the loss
of a kind and affectionate wife, and a loving and esti-
mable daughter.
	Resolved, That we cherish her memory and regard her
virtues as ever worthy of emulation in her great energy
and perseverance to the cause of truth.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Young Ladies' Associations, also that a
copy be presented to the bereaved husband and mother,
also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
			MARY J. BROCKBANK,
			MARY J. MORRISON,		Committee.
			FLORA ROBERTSON,


GONE TO REST.

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, on the evening of July 4th,
1884, after weary months of suffering, Sister Jemima
Nightingale Davis. Born November 19th, 1834, in Sal-
ford, Manchester, England.
	Sister Davis has been an active and efficient member
of the visiting committee of the Relief Society of the 17th
Ward for many years, always cheerful and willing to
perform the arduous duties of that office until her health
broke down about a year ago.
	I visited her frequently during the last few weeks of
her illness, and I think I speak advisedly when I say she
was a faithful, consistent saint of God.
	On one occasion she told me that if she could get well
she felt to devote herself still more to the work of God,
and let earthly matters go; but if she could not, she felt
resigned to the will of heaven, feeling that she would be
free from her sufferings, and God would be merciful to
her failings.
	The spirit of peace and quiet brooded over her home.
The last time I saw her quite conscious she fervently
clasped my hand again and again and bade me good bye
for this life. I asked her is she still felt that Father did
all things well. She answered, "Yes." I saw her for the
last time just a few minutes before she expired. The
same quiet was there, though her spirit was trembling
between the frail clay that imprisoned it and the free-
dom for which it yearned. Her family was around her,
and her faithful daughter Janey soothed th dying mo-
ther, as she had comforted and blessed her for so long.
Her husband and children have sustained an irrepara-
ble loss, but she has gained life in the presence of
God.
	May the Spirit of God comfort and sustain them, and
may they lean on His all-mighty arm, theu will they
find a balm for every woe, and angels will comfort the
heart that mourns.
	As a society and as friends we deeply sympathize with
her family in this their great loss, yet feel that all is
well, for she passed away in the hope of a glorious res-
urrection, when we, with them, will meet her again, if
in our lives we are true and faithful as she has been.
					Lovingly,		S. D. ALDER.


For Sale at this Office.

﻿BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communiation between Office and Lesidence.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMWGS,
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

