BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

	To Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D. Young and Min-
erva Snow, in behalf of the R. S. of Kanab.

	We, the sisters of the R.S., most sincerly wel-
come these, our much beloved sisters, to Kanab.

	A long cherished home is realized in the happy
event. Here, on the frontier of Utah, in com-
parative isolation, it is the first time that any of
our representative ladies, have visited us.
Therefore, we say to them welcome, thrice wel-
come; and may this visit be long remembered
by us, as a time of rejoicing. May we treasure
up the counsels we received as precious gems.
	We welcome you as Lady Pioneers to this
beautiful, but once desert Territory; for by your
untiring efforts, you have greatly aided in de-
veloping refinement and social advancement
among the Saints.
	We welcome you as veritable Mothers in
Israel; for your lives have been given to good
works, and to the accomplishment of holy pur-
poses. We welcome you, as the early exponents,
by precept and example, of the new and ever-
lasting covenant of Marriage, and as leaders in
the self-sacrifice at first necessary to establish its
principles.
	We welcome Sisters Eliza and Zina as our
Elect Lady and her Counselor, and as Presidents
of all the feminine portion of the human race.
Although comparatively few recognize their
right to this authority. Yet, we know they have
been set apart as leading Priestesses of this dispen-
sation. As such we honor them. We welcome
them as the honored wives of our revered and
martyred Prophet Joseph Smith.
	We welcome Sister Minerva as the consort of
our beloved Apostle Erastus Snow, the leading
pioneer to Southern Utah, through whose wise
counsels, the Saints have developed the resources
of this desert country.
	We welcome Sister Eliza as Zion's Poetess.
How often have our souls been thrilled with the
keenest emotions of pain or joy, when reading
those graphic descriptions so beautifully penned
by our gifted sister. Of the heart rending suffer-
ings of our people in early days, of agonized
breathings of her soul, when her beloved hus-
band was cruelly murdered by fiends in human
form. Anon, her heart is filled with praise
and thanksgiving to the Supreme being, for
mercies received, and she wakes up in our bos-
oms the holy sentiments of reverence and love for
our heavenly Father. May our sisters live many
years to continue the great work they have com-
menced; and when the shadows of death hover
near, may their last moments be like the gentle
lulling of the infant on its mother's bosom.
When their spirits have winged their flight to the
realms of bliss, to meet kindred and friends who
have gone before, their kind acts will live in the
hearts of the Saints. The bright halo of their
great and noble souls will float around us, like
the glory of the departed day or the gentle breeze
of a Summer evening.


