PLAIN TALK.

	DEAR SISTERS:—Being a reader of our
valuable paper, I desire to say a few words
through its columns, in behalf of the sisters
who labor in Zion.
	I ofttimes think it would be well if the
brethren would read our paper more than they
do, and become better acquainted with the
sisters’ feelings and desires, and perhaps we
could work to one another’s interest better
than we do now. It is true, the woman is the
weaker vessel, although I think she sometimes
carries the burden of the day and evening too.
Men, as a general rule, arise from fifteen to
twenty minutes earlier in the morning than
women some have chores to do, and some have
not, while the wife prepares beakfast. Then,
whed it is ready, the women serve the table
and wait upon the children; everything is
made easy, and then perhaps the wife is made
light of, because she has not eaten in seven or
ten minutes. Wife has not yet had a rest; table
cleared up, floors brushed, beds shook up, all
things in order, and wife is then ready for a
day's work. Hurries up with all her might,
for she knows the baby will wake soon, and
then the little dear must be tended; then, sure
enough, it is half past eleven. Baby, you
must go down, father is coming for his dinner.
Dear, oh my, no wood cut! Mother must skir-
mish around to get some wood to boil the tea-
kettle. She hurries all day, and evening comes
at last, but little impression made on the day's 
work. Then milk to skim, pans to wash, new


milk to strain, and so forth, a dozen other
things wanting to be done at once, Father,
will you tend the baby until I do some of my
chores? But, bless me! father can't read with
the baby, much less work all day with two or
three teasing and waiting to be waited upon.
	Well, mothers, if we are women, the world
cannot go on without us; so let us take courage
and try to take care of our bodies, that the
Lord has given us, and if we foolishly abuse
them, we will have to account for it. And
take care of our children, and not let them
run about so much, especially in the evening;
it is the very thing that destroys their bodies;
keep them at least one-half of the time at
home—and that is something that all don't do,
to my certain knowledge.
	Well, I will quit for this time. May the
Lord bless the fathers and mothers in Israel,
and help us to realize our duties that we owe
to one another, and the duties that we owe to
ourselves and te all mankind. Amen.
	Clifton, March 23, 1871.				D. K.


