CORRESPONDENCE.

ST. GEORGE March, 28, 1881.
DEAR  EDITOR:  Our  Conference  is  over,  and
we  have  bid  adieu  to  our  beloved  and hon-
ord Sister E. R. S.  Smith  and  Sister  Zina D.
Young; but  although  they  have  left  us,  their 
visit will long remain  in our memories as some-
thing pleasant to  think  of,  for the  comfort and
blessings they  have imparted  and  good  work
they have done.
 It was our  coldest  part of winter  when they
arrived, and  after  resting  a  short  time,  and
working in the  Temple,  they in company with
our  esteemed  President,  Minerva  W. Snow,
started out to visit the settlements of this Stake,
facing  cold  and  storm.  Self  seemed  to  be a
secondary consideration with these truly women
of God,  filled with all humility and kindness.
	And the little  children have  seen and talked
with Sister Eliza,  whose songs they have sung so
long in Sunday School.  Now  she has organized
them into Primaries and they have meetings of


their very own,  the  good  results of  which  are
already manifest.
	I must not omit to mention also Sister Rachel
Grant and  Sister  Libby  Townsend, who  spent
part of the  winter here, and with whom we en-
joyed some most  agreeable   Associations.  We
are pleased to have our  friends  from the  North
visit us, it does us good, and we hope that as the
Rail Road  comes  nearer (so  that  they do  not
have "the horrid roads" to travel) that more will
come.  It is a delightful climate in winter,there
being  scarcely  a day  but   the  atmosphere  is
sunny and bright.   I am  sure Italy's  skies can-
not boast of a more beautiful blue.  It now looks
like a posey garden, all  the  fruit trees  being  in
bloom, and  asparagrus  and   pie plant has  been
ready for the table for more than a  week.
	I have been very sick, but through  the bless-
ings of  my  Heavenly   Father  and  faith  and
prayers in  my  behalf,  am thankful to say  I am
gaining strength,  and  hope soon   to be able  to
resume my every day duties.
	With  kind  love and  good  wishes  for your
success I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
