				CONTINUED.
	Nothing can be more natural than that a son
who  has  received the  Gospel in the love of it,
should be  anxious  to  make  known  the  good
news  to  his father;  it  is  true, Mr. Missionary
Unipod  was  a  religious  man,  he  was  also a
Baptist but  he  had  not  been baptized by one
who had  received divine authority to adminis-
ter the ordinance  of baptism;  the  son  of Mr-
Unipod had, in common with all believers who
become Latter-day Saints.  And  it is for this
reason that they are all made  conscious of the
validity of baptism,  by  receiving  the  Holy
Ghost as a witness  from  God, as did  all  those
who  were  baptized  by  the  authority,  in  the
"name" of Jesus  Christ, by  the  former Apos-
tles.  These  evidences  were  then  received ac-
cording to the promise, and were credentials of
the authority  of  the  administration, as well as
proofs  of  the  efficacy  of  the  saving  ordinance
of baptism.  That which was true  then is also
true now, if the  Gospel  is  the  same  and  men
have the authority given them from the  Lord
Jesus Christ to  administer in its holy ordinan-
ces.  Now,  the  son  of  the  missionary  had
proved all this to  be  true, and knew for a cer-
tainty that  all who  obey the  divine command
and  receive the Gospel, receive this assurance;
no wonder, then, that  he was anxious to make
known the  joyful  news  to  his  father.  How
often had his father  prayed  for  him, and now
he could reply gladly to the inquiry that would
be  sure  to  be  made by that devout man, as to
the soul's health of his beloved son!
	There were two  things  that  greatly marred
the  peace  of  Mr.  Missionary Unipod - "Ro-
manism" and  "Mormonism."  To  do  battle
with the latter was found to be utterly useless;
but  Catholicism  was  still  deemed  vulnerable.
And,  to  fortify the  minds  of  the missionaries
beneath his  watchcare with  evangelical  argu-
ments  against  Romanism had been the aim of
the superintendent  missionary for a long time.
For this reason he had prepared an address, or 
lecture, on  the  great  apostacy that  took place
after the  ascension  of  Christ.  Now, it so hap-
pened  that  when  the  son  of Mr. Missionary
Unipod entered the apartment of his father, to
tell him  he  had  joined  the  Latter-day Saint
communion,  the  manuscript was just being fin-
ished by his  father, who merely looked up and
said:  "Well,  Joseph,  has  the  Lord  met  with
you?" To his  great  delight  the  son  replied:
"Father, I have obeyed the Gospel of our Lord
and  Savior, Jesus Christ!" So  great was the
joy of the missionary to hear  this  unexpected
news, that he  could not wait to know what de-
nomination  of  Christians  his  son  had united
with-for Missionary Unipod was entirely un-
sectarian in his views-in common  with  most
of  the London City Missionaries.
	What a  pity  it is that  persons  are so  preju-
diced against that religion which acknowledges
Jesus  Christ  as  its  founder,  and  claims  that
present  revelation from Him is essential to the
existence  of  the  church which  He will recog-
nize! but  this  is  the distinctive feature of the 
Church  of Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day Saints.
	The lecture  of the  missionary was intended
to fortify the  minds  of  the  co-laborers of that
excellent  man,  against  the  sophistries  of Je-
suitical teachers who were at that time endeav-
oring  to  prove  the  right  of the  Church  of 
Rome  to  divine  authority;  and, as
the son  of  Mr.  Missionary Unipod
had now  admitted  that  he  was  a  believer
in Jesus Christ, the interesting article was read
by the  father  to him; to  strengthen  his faith
and guard him against the evils of Catholicism.It showed that "the Church  of Rome had not
the  shadow  of authority  from  Jesus  Christ;
that  the Apostles, to whom  alone he had dele-
gated  authority,  were  all  slain;  that  by the
middle of the second century of the Christian
era, not a man remained who had received au-
thority  by  the  imposition  of hands,  by  those
who  held  the  right  to  confer upon  men the
Holy Ghost."  That  "the  assumption  of  the
Bishop of Rome that he held the  authority  of
Peter,  was  based  upon  a  misconception  of
terms.  'The Rock' on which  the Church was
to  be  built  was  that  of  Revelation."  That,
"had the  complete  organization of the Twelve
Apostles  remained  among  men, as  established
by  Jesus,  there  might  have  been  some  sem-
blance  of  authority,  but  not  a  vestige  re-
mained, all were slain!"  Then the aged father
looked up and asked the son the question: "Are
not these  evidences that  the  Church  of  Rome
has no  authority from the Lord  Jesus Christ?"
"This  is  the very reason that our Lord had to
come down  again  to the  earth and restore  the
Gospel to man in our day," was the reply; "the
Apostle John foresaw these things you have so
ably  pictured;  he  had  it  revealed  to  him
that  the truth would be taken from the earth,
and the Gospel would have to be again restored.
He says in the 14th Revelation:  'I saw another
angel * * having  the  everlasting  Gospel to
preach unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth.'
That  messenger  from  heaven  has descended,
and authority has again been restored to man."
	"Where did  you learn that?" said the aston-
ished father;  "In  the Church  of  Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints."
	Had a thunderbolt dropped through the ceil-
ing it would scarcely have produced more con-
sternation  than  this  declaration.  All the ecs-
tatic  feelings  that  had  been  experienced  by
the  father  in  hearing  of  his  son's conversion,
all the gentle emotions felt on hearing that his
son had  obeyed  the  Gospel,  were dispelled!
Why? Why?  By  unreasoning, ungenerous,
unchristian prejudice!
		To be Continued.


[Column 1]
