LIVE FOR A PURPOSE.

"I would not waste my spring of youth
In idle dalliance. I would plant rich seeds,
To blossom in my manhood, and bear fruit
When I am old."

 We are living in a wonderful era, a most
eventful time. Are the young men and women
of to-day making the most of the opportunities
of their existence here upon the earth in this
age of Gospel light, mental achievements and
scientific discoveries? Are they carving out
a noble name in living characters that will
endure, laying the foundation of a destiny
which shall prove the ultimatum of human
effort with the blessing of God upon its highest
and holiest endeavors? How grand and how
boundless are the possibilities of the future,
which lies before those who are just entering
upon the arena of action. How potent for good
in the hands of young men and women might
be the intelligence, which flows through the
channel of the holy priesthood to those born
in the new and everlasting covenant, if they
exercised the privilleges allotted to them and 
combined humility with knowledge. 
 But how is this blessing to be obtained?
We say the heavens are ready to pour out in-
numberable blessings upon the youth of Zion.
Yes but does the harvest ripen even though
good seed were sown and "God gives the in-
crease" where no careful husbandman has
watered and tended the soil, rooting out every
obnoxious weed, that would hinder the growth
and development of the grain? Does not the

[Column 2]
human heart and mind require as much atten-
tion in its culture as the seed that is sown in
the earth, that it may bear rich fruit intellect-
ual, moral and spiritual? Ay, yes, even more,
for the finer the texture and higher the quality
of any material or element the more assiduous
and constant must be the endeavor to preserve
it from evil or adverse influences in order to
bring it to the utmost perfection. 
   Parents who desire the greatest good for
their offspring lay the foundation in early
youth, and when they are older it is the duty
each one individually owes to himself and his
Maker to work out his own destiny, to set his
mark high, to bring his best efforts to bear upon
the success of his resolves for usefulness in the
path he has chosen for his career upon earth.
Each one should ask himself, or herself, if with-
in the heart the foundation is laid in strength
and sincerity for that which is desirable to at-
tain, the one purpose of a life-time. Much, 
everything we may say, depends upon beginning
right, otherwise one must eventually go over
the ground again and it is always more difficult
to root up and destroy that which has been
thoroughly impregnated in the native soil and
plant anew, than to cultivate the spontaneous
growth. 
 How essential then that the best and truest
principles be first, this being done, let the
cultivation be thorough, and how satisfactory
must be the result. If the principles of our
lives are vital they will bear exceeding rich
fruit, if they bear no fruit then they are not
vital, they are superficial and worthless. The
object of our being here upon the earth is for
a purpose; through the spiritual taining we re-
ceive, we comprehend more fully the glorious
destiny marked out for the Saint of God, and
the way by which one may attain to that pos-
sible exaltation. 
 It is indeed a melancholy picture to contem-
plate that of a young person with all the cap-
abilities of usefulness, even greatness in the
soul, with the intelligence of heaven ready to
burst forth upon them, weary of life longing for
excitement, seeking to plunge into the whirlpool
of worldliness to drown thought, to forget
duty and responsibility, and to elude the
viligance of the monitor within which is always
prompting and urging one to resist temptation.
 If one would have his name honored, his
virtuous actions and life recorded in the book
of remembrance, then let such a one decide
to make the most of his life and aim for a fixed
purpose with a view and determination daunt-
less enough to ensure at least moderate success.
This can never be done through a blind selfish-
ness; one must be keenly alive to the calls of 
humanity, the obligations of his fellows and the
universal brotherhood, "one touch of which
makes all the world akin." I am aware many
will say, they are hedged about with difficulties,
obstacles are continually springing up, and
even the roses are thickly set with thorns and
briers, and the path our Savior trod grows dark
and gloomy, and hope the anchor of the soul is
weary with long waiting, and crushed with
cruel disappointment, and faith has scarce sur-
vived even the short voyage upon the journey
of life. But stop! spiritual faith the germ of
sublimity of resolve must overpower all these
difficulties or it is not genuine. 
 Young men and young women, you who are
living in this golden age, this age of refine-
ment and culture, look well to yourselves; you
want more religion in your lives, every-day re-
ligion, that which will bear you up under trials, 
support you in every difficulty, and give you
that sweet charity which will help you to for-
give even as you wish to be forgiven, and bring
you into closer proximity to each other and
nearer to Him, who is the fount of all excel-
lence. The realities of life are upon you and you
need in connection with these practical religion
and a thrilling sense of its truth, which shall
enter into every fibre of your being making
you conscious of the power which holds the
destinies of nations in its grasp. Begin now
while all  your faculties are fresh and your
ability to do good, to gain name and fame is 
at its zenith of strengh and power. As Latter-
day Spints you have always one purpose in
view that supercedes all others, and that is
salvation, which involves a lifetime of energetic
action in a legitimate field of labor. It is not
one grand or heroic sacrifice that is going to
do the work for  you, but daily and hourly un-
ceasing efforts to live in harmony with God's 
laws will eventually enable one to overcome and
attain a larger faith in himself, greater courage
for the future and renewed zeal in the path
which leads to a sure and safe haven beyond.
The price of lofty attainment in everything
which lifts mankind, is diligence and earnest-
ness in its pursuit. You want the knowledge
that reaches into immortality; then you must
consecrate your life to the labor of progression. 
