HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRIMARY Hymn Books and Tune Books by
Eliza R. Snow for Sale at this Office.

	Augusta Joyce Crocheron's Book, "Wild
Flowers of Deseret," will not be ready until
after Conference.

	IT is fifty years ago to-day since Sister Amanda
Smith was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Simeon D.
Carter, in Amherst, Ohio.

	PREST. WILFORD WOODRUFF and Apostles
Erastus Snow, Brigham Young, F. M. Lyman
and John Henry Smith returned on Tuesday
evening from the South.

	SISTERS Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young
arrived Thursday evening from their Southern
trip, and were warmly welcomed by a party of
friends at the depot and the Lion House. Sister
Rachel R. Grant who started with them came
home on Tuesday.

	IT is understood that several sisters coming
from the country to attend the Woman's Con


ference held in this city, were greatly disap-
pointed on account of the adjournment. Mrs
M. I. Horne who presides over the Relief Socie-
ties in this Stake, thinks it wisest and best to
hold the Quarterly Conferences the week of the
Semi-monthly meetings which are held regularly
every other Saturday in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms; otherwise there would be meet-
ings three Saturdays in succession. For the
benefit of all who may wish to attend the next
Quarterly Conference we have published in the
report the positive date, to which the meeting is
adjourned and which has been carefully calcu-
lated and comes on the meeting day.

	THE Jubilee Box which has been some time
in preparation at the office of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Secretary Central Organization of Re-
lief Societies will be sealed up to-day, eventually
to be deposited permanently in the His-
torians Office. This idea of Sister Kimball's is
a unique one and certainly is strictly original.
The box contains photographs; manuscripts, etc.,
of quite a number of sisters and a few brethren,
each one's package directed to the eldest female
descendant, the box to be opened the 1st of
April, 1930, by Mrs. Kimball's successor in of-
fice. A fuller description of the whole, with the
dedicatory poem, will be published in April 15.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot, is also preparing a
box in the same way, we understand. That
box will contain the name of each officer and
member of the Primary Associations in Utah
County. They were prepared by Mrs. Zina Y.
Williams and Master Sterling Williams.


