AN ALTAR BY THE WAY.

   Here and there in the Bible we find the
simple touching record; "And he builded an
altar.” The words are full of meaning,- help,
comfort, blessing, promise,- the place was
sacred not only to the builder, but to all that
came that way. Walled up with signal deliv-
erance from trouble, covered with the incense
of prayer, it stood a proof of some human heart's
trust in Divine power; and ruthless must have
been the hand that could have torn it down.
   So it seems to us who from afar have
watched the long weary march of the heroic
band of men and women who believe in the
equal rights of all the sons and daughters of
men,—the long weary march of years; here
and there new devotees joining their ranks:
here and there listening to the parting words
of those called from all earthly pilgrimages,
yet never despairing, never losing sight of the
promise- "for ye are all one," until a score
and a half of years had brought them to the
time and the place of a memorial altar.
 One whose heart and step were light when
the march began, whose voice ever rang its
truest, clearest note forl iberty, but whose lulla-
bies and home whisperings were most loving
and tender, the faithful elder sister of this
patient waiting band, had folded her hands,
and laid down to rest; had laid down her bur-
den, and left her blessing.
   When those who had known and loved her
gathered in the beautiful city where the laws
of our country are made, gathered to speak of
her unfailing faith, her devotion, and womanly
sweetness. And from the altar of love,
wreathed with flowers, smiled the imaged face
of Lucretia Mott, while amid prayers and tears,
the hymn she loved, "Nearer my God to Thee"
rose from tremulous lips,making forever sacred
to all women who shall come after her, this
"altar by the way." -Women at Work.


On Wednesday, March 16th, the Judiciary
Committee of the Assembly (N.Y.) reported a
Woman Suffrage bill; March 17th, the Con-
necticut Senate passed a Woman's School Suf-
frage Bill.  Registration not required.
	THE English Woman's Suffrage Journal
says, most of the speakers upon the coming
election in the Isle of Man refer to women and
their interests in their speeches.  The result of 
the election will be looked for with intense in-
terest by all women who value the franchise,
and indeed by all people who believe in the 
political emancipation of woman.


