		CONTINUED.
	After attending the school in Kirtland dur-
ing the winter of  1835  and  6, my father, with
the Prophet's blessing, started again for preach
the Gospel in the Eastern  States, leaving his
family in the  enjoyment  of health  and  pros-
perity.  This was  the  first  mission he  took
alone; he  was  absent  nearly  five  months,
preached  much  and  baptized  thirty;  visited
many of his friends in  Vermont  and the State
of New  York.  This  mission, which  he gives
an account of, is very interesting but too lengthy
to publish in the  EXPONENT, however, I  will
copy a few incidents from it.  He  says, "June
13th I arrived  at  Sacketts  Harbor, where I
had the  pleasure  of  meeting  Brothers Luke
Johnson and Orson  Pratt,  who  were laboring
with all their might for the  cause of  God in
that region.  From that  place  I went on the
Steamer, "United States," to  Ogdensburg, St.
Lawrence County,  New  York,  and from
thence I passed on about  three miles from the
village, where I was stopped by a shower of rain,
which drew me into  the hense of  Mr. Chapin
for shelter, and after making known my calling
the people  desiring a  meeting, called in  their 
neighbors, where I preached  to  them for about
an hour;  many stayed  until midnight, and be-
fore I was up  the  next  morning they  called
upon me, requesting I should preach again that
day  in the  School House,  which I  did, and at
night   I was  again thronged  with  those who
were eager to hear.  The second morning they
likewise called on me and would not let me go
until they  knew the truth  of my testimony, for
by this time the country round was in  an up-
roar of excitement.  On the fourth morning I
was called out of  bed and  baptized  three. I
remained seven days preaching the Gospel of
the kingdom of heaven and  baptized  and  con-
firmed seven.  The promise  was  fulfilled  for
those who believed spoke  in tongues and  the
sick were healed;  a woman named  Davis had
been confined  to  her  bed for five years, not
able to  do anything  during  that time,  and
scarcely able to sit up, who was given up to die
by the doctors.  I baptized and confirmed her
a member of the Church, and at the same time
prayed for her and  rebuked the  disease and
commanded it to depart from her, in the name
of Jesus Christ;  she began  to amend from that
very hour and in less  than one  week she  was
performing her usual household duties, walked
into the streets and  attended meetings to the
astonishment of  the  people.  "Sister  Chapin
and others were also healed of their infirmities.
Sister Davis' husband was considered a staunch
universalist, he was convinced and baptized."
	From there  my  father  journeyed to Platts-
burgh where he stayed  all night;  from  thence
went in a steamer to St. Albans,  Vermont, and
visited  friends and  relatives in  Sheldon and
Bakersfield, and traveled through various parts
of  his  native  State.  He  says,  "I  visited
Wrights  tettlement  on the top of the Green
Mountain, where some were believing, preached
once to  eight or  nine bore testimony  to  the
truth of the Gospel.  I met  Elder Solon  Fos-
ter at Pottsdam-after an absence of about five
weeks I returned to Ogdensburg, met the breth-
ren whom I had baptized and they rejoiced at
my return.  When I got to the house of Broth-
er Heman Chapin, he was grinding his  scythe
and fixing his cradle to commence cutting his
wheat. I proposed to him if he would  furnish
me a  tow frock and pantaloons to put on, and
a rake, I would go into the field  and rake and
bind  all he  could cut,  he declared  there  was
no man living could do it;  says I  never mind
Brother Chapin, its nearly as easy for me to do
it as to say it.  The  next  morning  after  the
dew had passed off we went into the fied, com-
mencing at a peice of wheat which he said had
three  acres  in it - says I go  ahead  brother
Heman, we'll cut down this piece  before din-
ner-about the  time he  took  the  last clip of
the three acres I had it bound in a bundle be-
fore he had  hardly a  chance  to  look round,
and about  that time the  horn  blowed  to call
us to dinner.  We started back  to  his  house,
he never spoke or said one word to me, appear-
ing  rather  confounded.  The  next Sabbath 
such a  congregation  of hearers  I had never
seen in the United States for Priest an peo-
ple had come for twenty-five  miles distance to
see and hear that Mormon that had  performed
a thing that had never  before  been  done in
that country,  for  brother  Chapin  had  pro-
claimed this occurence unknown  to  me. I
tarried for several days in those regions preach-
ing  and  baptizing.  August  25th,  while we
were assembled for a meeting our  hearts  were
filled with joy at the arrival of  Joseph  Smith
Sen.,  the  Patriarch  and  his  brother  John
Smith  who were  on  a mission  to bless  the
churches  in  the  Eastern States.
	Monday 29th,  we ordained Levi Chapin a
Priest, and Oliver Simons  an  Elder  to  watch
over  the  Church;  Father  Joseph  Smith  and
John Smith left us, the  Church  having  made
contributions  at my request.  I then
went to Black Lake,  preached,  and  baptized
one;  then preached  at Pottsdam, and  baptized
another, I returned to  the  township  of  Oswe-
gatchie, called the Church together at Ogdens-
burgh  which numbered 25, and bid them fare-
well.  I left the Church rejoicing in the Lord,
and  many  around  believing  the  testimony.
From thence I pursued my  journey to Victor,
Ontario county where I met Vilate, my  wife,
who was visiting her  friends and connections,
and I tarried  a few  days  with  them.  From
thence  we  pursued  our  journey to  Buffalo.
Here a Magistrate came  forward and paid five
dollars  for our passage to  Fairport, a distance
of  180  miles.  The  passengers  were chiefly
Swiss Emigrants.  After  sitting  and hearing
them some time, the Spirit  of the  Lord  came
upom  me, and I was enabled to preach to them
in  their  own  language,  they  seemed much
pleased and treated us kindly.  We had a very
heavy gale while  going  up the Lake,  so that
almost every passenger  and some of the hands
were very sick; many were frightened and one
woman died, she being very feeble when  she
came  on board;  but we reached our destination
without  accident,  and  arrived  in  Kirtland
Oct. 2nd."
	The mention of my  mother's  last  visit  to
Victor, recalls many seenes of  my  childhood
and impressions which  still occupy  a pleasant
niche in my memory. My uncle Wiliam Mur-
ray and their  sister  Lucretia  Campbell  were
living  in  Victor,  she  had  but  one  son and
daughter who with herself and husband died
many years ago.  My parents  had  buried two
of their children  in Mendon  their first  child
was a daughter  named Judith  Mervin, who
died when  ten  months old the  second  was
William Henry - I being  the third child and
last  daughter  my  mother  ever  bore.  Her
fourth was Roswell Heber, who died when five
months old-this was previous to their hearing
of Mormonism-I can  distinctly remember the
little grave yard between Mendon and  Victor,
where they were buried, and also  of  our visit-
ing at my uncle  Gould Murray's in the city of
Rochester and  of  attending  Sunday  School.
My parents were then Baptists; in three weeks
after joining taht church their ears were salutedwith the Everlasting Gospel.
	The following little  incident  will  no  doubt
remind others  of their childish  enthusiasm as
well as mistakes  which underwent timely cor-
rections.
	One morning  while Uncle Brigham Young
and his two daughters were  living with us, the
oldest one and my brother  William  proposed
that  we four should  go  up to Victor to meet
Grandpa  and  wife, who  was sister to  Uncle
Brigham, as they were  that day  coming down
to Mendon on  their way to  Kirtland.  Little
Vilate and myself were sent  to ask  Ma's  per-
mission who took but little notice what we said


[Column 1]
only to tell us to "go along" or something which
we took for consent, and away we ran through
the deep woods so delighted at the prospects
before us, and the nice ride back with Grandpa
and Aunt Fanny that we did not stop even to
pick huckleberries, which were growing thickly
on either side of the path, when we came out
on the Victor side of the wood, who should we
meet but Grandpa and Aunt Fanny who seemed
to know we were there without permission, and
taking little Vilate, the youngest of us, into
their wagon we were ordered to turn round
and get home with all speed, which we did not
stop to hear repeated, although we were very
tired and hungry too, having walked three
miles, and it being a very warm day in sum-
mer. It was seven miles by the road and they
kmew that we could run back quicker than
they could ride with a loaded wagon.
	It was quite late in the day before we got
back and our folks were hunting for us. Lib-
bie was the eldest, but my brother had to bear
the blame and we were made to realize the ex-
tent of our wrong doing by the strong impres-
sions made upon his feelings by a kind mater-
nal hand. Soon after this our home was sold
and when we were ready to start for Kirtland,
to my father's great surprise some of his neigh-
bors issued attachments against his goods, al-
though they knew that he had paid all his
debts and there were some hundreds of dollars
due to him which he left uncollected, but he
settled all their unjust claims and sent his
goods up to Kirtland by way of Lake Erie.
This prevented us from starting until late in
the Fall of 1833. While we remained we
lived in the house of one of our neighbors;
while there I remember of a terrible thunder-
storm coming up and our parents telling us
we must sit quiet and not talk, for the Lord
was speaking. I was hardly five years old but
their words with the awful thunder and light-
ning made so strong an impression upon my
mind that I have always felt that we should
keep silent when the Lord was speaking,
	When my mother went East she was accom-
panied by brother Joseph Nobles who was ap-
pointed to go on a mission. My eldest brother
was left in charge of Grandfather Murray.
Sister Nobles having no children wished me to
be left with her. This was our first separation
and I could never quite believe that it was of
only three weeks duration for it seemed like an
age to me. Sister Nobles lived but a few steps
from my Grandfather, but when I returned
with her that night I cried myself to sleep
though she tried her best to soothe my grief,
but I refused to be comforted. The only thing
I heard which particularly impressed my mind
was when she said "Brother Nobles has gone
to stay a much longer time than your Ma and
I might cry too but you see I don't." The idea
of her comparing her loss to mine sounded so
absurd to me. I thought, well, neither would
I cry for him.
	I also remember the morning when her sweet
face peeped into the door, I was just kindling
the fire and how quickly I dropped the wood
and flew into her loving arms. They had re-
turned late the previous evening and she could
hardly wait till morning to see me.
	The first object that met my eye as we entered
the door of our own sweet home was my little
brother, who had been very sick and was re-
duced in flesh previous to taking the trip
standing with both hands full of something to
eat, my father had not yet risen but our meet-
ing was a joyful one. The wood fire was burn-
ing brightly on the andirous and our old fash-
ioned tin oven stood before it filled with sweet
apples and Aunt Fanny was preparing break-
fast.
	Although many years have passed, and the
grass has long grown over the graves of those
dear ones, yet the scene is still fresh in my
memory. The winter after they returned I

[Column 2]
was baptized by Uncle Brigham in the tribu-
tary of the Chagrin river, my father cutting a
place in the ice for that purpose, I had longed
for this privilege and though I had some dis-
tance to walk in my wet clothes I felt no cold
or inconvenience from it.
	During the Spring of 1836, I at-
tended a school kept by Sister E. R. Snow in a
house of the Prophet's adjoining his dwelling-
house where she was boarding. I remember
that the Book of Mormon was one of our school
books.
	I never knew Sister Eliza intimately until
after our expulsion from Nauvoo and we had
quartered for the winter in, what is now Flor-
ence, Iowa. There I made her acquaintance
under peculiar and trying circumstances. The
first time I remember of meeting her there she
was lying sick with a fever in a poorly covered
wagon, with the blazing sun beating down up-
on it. Many more were in a similar condition
and had no other shelter, until after the heavy
rains was on us and the nights had become cold
and frosty, which made matters still worse, but
in the midst of these trials, with trusting faith
in the Almighty the Saints were sustained and
comforted. His power was made manifest
many times to our perfect astonishment. Be-
fore starting from Winter Quarters Sister Eliza
was able to go around and administer to her
sisters in affliction. For many years she has
helped to comfort those who stood in need, and
in blessing she has been blessed. Many a time
have her words dropped like refreshing dews
from the heavens, like manna they have come
when most needed, reviving and giving new
hope to the weary and hungry soul. Our in-
timacy began the first winter after we came to
this valley, we were both invalids and though
we lived within half a block's distance of each
other, we were unable to walk it; but we could
communicate our thoughts and feelings by letter
which we often did, though paper like every
other commodity at that time was very scarce;
we never left any blank space. Her notes
contained many things which were to me as
precious treasures, which I have preserved
among other choice relics of the past.

To be Continued.


