OBITUARY.

   Died in the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City, Feb.
20, 1881, Mrs. Teresa Hastings Judd. Deceased
(whose maiden name was Hastings) was born
in Turin, Lewis County, State of New York, but
when quite young moved to Canada, and in that
country passed her early life. In 1830 she was
united in marriage to Thomas A. Judd. In 
1836 she was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in 1843 moved
to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints,
where she passed through various scenes of pri-
vation and trial, but was ever firm and steadfast
in her faith. She mourned deeply and sincerely
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She came to Salt Lake City in 1849, and has re-
sided here ever since.
   Sister Judd had five children, all are now liv-
ing, two daughters and three sons, Mrs. Mar-
garet G. Clawson is the eldest, Mrs. Phebe Kim-
ball the other daughter. Two of her sons reside
in Grantsville, and one in Bear Lake Valley.
She leaves quite a posterity upon  earth, five
children, thirty-eight grandchildren and nine
great-grandchildren.
   Sister Judd, was in the best sense of the word
a woman of God. Her life has been faithfully
devoted to the advancement of his kingdom; she
never lost an opportunity of removing prejudice
from the minds of strangers, and doing good to
her brethren and sisters. Her faith in the
principles she had espoused was unbounded, and
her fondest hope and desire was that her chil-
dren should ever revere, sustain, uphold, and
advocate "Mormonism." A gentle disposition
and great faith, combined with an extensive
knowledge of the virtue of medicines, eminently
qualified her to fulfil the duties of an attendant
upon the sick, and she thereby accomplished an
immense amount of good. She was for many
years almost day and night occupied by the bed-
side of the sick, or soothing the last moments of
the dying. She was a member of the Relief So-
ciety of the 15th Ward, has always been active
and energetic even zealous in the per-


formance of every duty, pertaining to the relief
of the poor and needy, the orphan and the
fatherless.
	She has lived and died the life of a true Lat-
ter-day Saint, and has passed away in glorious
hope of a part in the first resurrection. She has
joined the hosts of friends behind the vail, who
are looking forward to a reunion with those who
remain. She will be deeply mourned by her
posterity, and many other friends and acquaint-
ances, and her memory will ever be fondly
cherished by those who knew her many virtues
her loving disposition and honorable life.


