EDITORIAL  NOTES.

 COMPLIMENT TO WOMEN.--In Vermont nearly
one-fourth  of all the  towns have elected women
for School Superintendents.


MRS.  Laura G. Fixen,  the "Little Dane," ad-
dressed  the Senate  and  Assembly of Wisconsin
Feb. 23, on the  constitutional amendment ques-
tion.  She was warmly received  and  loudly ap-
plauded.  Her  speech occupied the entire after-
noon.

	IN Colorado, the  first  Monday in May will be
election day in all  the  school districts.  All wo-
men twenty-one years of age, having resided in
the district  thirty days, and six  months in the 
State, not  prisoners, or insane, etc., will be per-
mitted  to  vote  on  all  questions  pertaining to 
schools, taxation  of  property,  improvement  of
school buildings, or  other  educational  interests
on which men vote.  Women may also hold any
office  voted  upon  at  such  elections.  Good for
Colorado.
 THE  President, Counselors, and  Secretary of
the Central Board of  Y.  L.  M. I. A. are  very
anxious to  get  complete reports from Stake Sec-
retaries, in order to record them, and also report
them.  In  October, November, and December,
1880, reports  were  received  from  Bear Lake,
Weber and  Box  Elder  Stakes.  These Stakes
will only need now to make half-yearly reports.
It is  earnestly desired  that all  organized  Stakes
send in  semi-annual reports in good time for the
October  Conference;  also  that  all  Stakes  that
have not reported from date of organization, send
in at the earliest date reports to March 1, 1881.

 TELEGRAMS  just  received announce that sev-
eral  prominent ladies  in  Washington society ap-
peal  to the people of the United States  in behalf
of the sufferers from the disastrous earthquakes,
which  have  been  so  destructive  of  late  in the
island of  Chio, which  is  situated  in the Greek
Archipelago.  These ladies urge upon the pastors
of  all  the  churches,  Catholic,  Protestant and
Hebrew, to take up  collections  in  their congre-
gations  at the  earliest practicable moment that
the rich and the poor  may have the opportunity
of contributing to  the  relief of the fainting suf-
ferers.  Riggs   &   Co.,  Washington,  will  receive
all monies collected.

