CONTINUED.

	In obeying the commandments of God we
claim his blessing to guard and protect us from
danger, but in leaving the flock and grieving
his spirit through disobedience, we are exposed
to the powers of darkness and cannot hold the
confidence and trust in Him we might other-
wise have, A great gulf seemed opened before
Mary, on one side were home, friends, faith and
the blessings of God; on the other was Jesse: a
husband's care and a father's protection for her
children; but would not God protect them, He
had promised to comfort the widow (she would
be more than widowed) and to be a father to
the fatherless. It was a trying time for poor
Mary. She had always given Jesse her con-
fidence and respect, his lightest word was her
law. He would be angry, she knew, if she did
not go, after the expense of sending for her.
Howard assured her that there were many good
people in California, that men of means and in-
telligence were bringing their families to settle
in the country, and society was steadily im-

[Column 2]
proving; but people were continually coming to
her with counsel and advise, telling her of the
danger of such a rough country, where the
female population was scarce, and men were
not governed by religious or moral principles.
They sincerely believed there was no safety
outside of Zion, and brought every influence to
bear that might hold her within its sanctuary.
Her young daughter, just blooming into
womanhood, would be much sought after;
should she meet an unkind fate or have her
prospects in life marred through taking her
out of the protecting influence of Zion she
would never forgive herself. Many sorrowful
days and sleepless nights she passed before de-
ciding. She could not believe either Jesse or
herself would apostatize from their faith.
They would stay awhile until they had gathered
sufficient means around them, and the valleys
had become better settled and built up so they
could live more comfortably, and then they
would come back. Like the drunken man who
stood in the door of his room waiting for the
bed to come nearer when he would jump on it;
but when he jumped he fell on the floor, for
the bed was as far off as ever. So they said
it would be with her. Their daughters would
grow to womanhood; no doubt they would
marry there which would be an additional tie
to bind them, and their dreams of wealth and
comfort, might be as far from being realized as
they were at present. Gold was an ignus-fatus
that lured many to destruction, and to Jesse it
had ever vanished when he thought it within
his grasp. Many times when he thought his
dreams about to be realized some freak of for-
tune would change his prospects; and when
three years had passed he found himself still
chasing the phantom, with as little prospect of
its becoming a reality. He had accumulated
some means and embarked in a mercantile
venture which promised fair to be a success,
but he must have patience and wait. Think-
ing it would be better to have his family with
him, and being unable to leave his business, he
employed his brother, whom he had met in
that strange country, after a separation of
many years, to go for them. Had he gone
himself no doubt his presence would have had
more influence with Mary, for few would have
ventured to counsel her then, and whether for
better or worse no doubt she would have gone;
or, perhaps he would have viewed the matter
as she did and concluded to stay with her, and
all the misery of those long years would have
been spared them; but fate had designed it
otherwise, and who shall say that our destiny
must not be marked out? Mary had crossed
the mountains once in an on team, and felt
that the experience was sufficient for a lifetime.
It seemed to be a great undertaking, and her
heart failed her when she thought of exposing
herself to the hardships of another journey.
Finally she resolved to appeal to President
Young and abide by his counsel. His advise
to her was, by no means to leave the valley.
If she went, he said, Jesse never would return.
If fortune favored him he would surround him-
self with home comforts and ties, and, aftersuffering so much in his past experience, he
would be loth to break them; if she was unkind
he would still pursue her where she held her
brightest inducements, instead of returning to
a place which offered so few attractions. If
Mary remained it would draw him back, for
his wife and children would certainly wield a
strong influence. Jesse was a man of intelli-
gence and fine principles, and would grow with
the country and become wealthy and honored.
He was a leading spirit, such a one as was
wanted to give life to the common wealth.
Here were purity, morality and virtue. Here
were no snares for the innocent, nor tempta-
tions for the weak. Here was safety, there
was danger and confusion. Mary came home
feeling calm and comforted; she felt that his


counsel was wise, and she had resolved to abide
by it. She would settle her mind to the duties
before her and say to Howard she would not
go. Minnie was a staunch little Mormon, and
willingly gave up all the fine prospects they
had flattered her with. Her childish faith
had never been shaken with dogmas nor sec-
tarianism. To her God was Omnipotent, and
Joseph Smith was his prophet. She had con-
fidence in Brigham Young and faith to believe
his counsel was for the best. This was a great
comfort to Mary and gave her strength in
those hours of darkness, for it is hard to go
against the feelings of those that are dear to
us, even though it accords with our best judg-
ment.

To be continued.


