GENERAL CONFERENCE.
			--------
	The fifty-first  Annual  Conference  of  the
Church of Jesus  Christ  of Latter-day Saints,
was held  in the large  Tabernacle in this  city,
and continued its session four days.  Commenc-
ing  Sunday  morning  April  3d,  and  closing
Wednesday  afternoon  April  6.  The  regular
business of the  Conference  was  transacted on
the last day.  It is said to have been the largest
Spring Conference  ever  assembled, and  was a
season of spiritual refreshing long  to be  remem-
bered.  There were present of presiding  author-
ities of the Church, Pres. John Taylor,  Counsel-
ors George  Q.  Cannon  and  Joseph F.  Smith,
Apostles, Wilford  Woodruff, (Orson Pratt  came
in the first afternoon  for a short time)  Lorenzo
Snow,  Erastus  Snow,  Franklin  D. Richards,
Brigham Young, F. M. Lyman and John Henry
Smith, Counselor  D. H.  Wells,  and  Patriarch
John Smith, Bishop Edward Hunter and Coun-
selors.  Presidents of Stakes from  different parts
of the Territory,  Bishops,  Elders,  &c.--women
and  children a  mighty  concourse  of people,
gathered to receive instruction and counsel from
the servants of  God, and to  partake of the  in-
fluence of the Holy  Spirit  vouchsafed to  every
humble heart in  worshipping "Our Father" in
spirit and in truth.
 Some Elders were called to go  upon  missions
to the British Isles and Scandinavia and a few to
different parts of the United States.  The preach-
ing altogether was very instructive, and  calcul-
ated to educate the  people in  the  duties  which
pertain to every-day life and also spiritual salva-
tion and exaltation.  On  Wednesday  afternoon
family  government  and  home  life  was  ably
treated upon by Pres. Joseph F. Smith and must
have appealed to the heart of every person who is 
desirous  of  promoting  the  happiness  and  best
welfare of the inhabitants  of Zion.  We  must
begin with small things, the little details which
make  up  the  great  sum  of  human  existence.
Pres. Taylor dwelt upon  generalities  temporal
and spiritual, and blest the  people in the  name
of the Lord.  The organ  and  choir  discoursed
sweet music  during  the Conference, but  at the
close of the last day the  congregation  standing
upon  their  feet  joined  the Choir  in  singing.
"The Spirit  of God   like  a fire  is burning" and
the grand assembly seemed  to be filled with the
power of the Holy Ghost.  Benediction  by Pres.
George  Q.  Cannon,  and  Conference  was ad-
journed until  the 6 of  October  next 10 o'clock
A.  M.


[Column 1]
