HUSBAND, HOME, MOTHERHOOD.
What grand words!  What tender thoughts
each one of them inspires.  They are to true
women the most expressive of affection and hap-
piness of any to be found in the English lan-
guage.  Everything which makes life attractive to
woman is linked and associated with one, or all
of these.  The three combined in a true sense
lift the soul into an atmosphere of sublimity.
The poor cottager is as rich in the possession of
these precious blessings as she who treads the
halls of a palace.  Love, the element which
exalts and purifies the nature abounds in the as-
sociations of each of these conditions. Where
true love is there is tenderness, joy, hope and 
faith in humanity, which ever inspiries faith in
a Supreme Being and aspirations for a lighter life.
How abundantly blest is she who clasps closely
and sacredly in her heart the realizing sense
that she is thus crowned even in her existence
here. No wonder she is gentle, pure, constant
and true, how could she be otherwise with so 
much happiness lying all around her.  Let such
a one continually offer un grateful orisons to
heaven for the mercies of which she is the daily
recipient. One of the poets perhaps Moore, at 
any rate it was a man, said "When the black-
lettered list to the Gods was presented, etc. * *
They slipped in three blessings, wife, children
and friends.  No doubt these comprise the
sun of man's happiness in its fullest and most
complete sense, but for woman, husband, home
and motherhood, are her cherished mine of gold
and precious gems.
Do women hold their blessings lightly? Many
do. They sometimes have all these and yet do
not appreciate the fulness of enjoyment allotted
to them; but were they ever deprived of them,
how agonizing would be the terrible contrast of
circumstances. And yet every woman's nature
lls for these three things, the longings of her
soul can never be satisfied without them, she
may be patient, faithful to that which she at-
tains, but she will never, can never know the 
supreme endowment which comes only with
these conditions. 
 A woman may have a fine house that is not
a home at all, she may be married and yet not
know what a husband is in its truest, highest
sense. These words do not always imply love
and happiness, they are sometimes miserable il-
lusive conterfeits, and the world, the great,
knowing, intelligent world, fails to detect the
difference; but the wife carries the consciousness
of the deception within, if its impress is not
stamped upon the lineaments of her face.  It is
well if hiding it herself, it does not reveal itself
in her children; they are oft times the faith-
ful exponents of domestic infelicity or of marital
incompatibility.
 However, it is possible for women to do much
to create happiness in the marriage relation and
in the home. Certainly, it is necessary that a 
wise choice should be made at first, and having
made it, build a family altar which shall be sa-
cred to love and duty, and suffer no infringe-
ment upon its borders, but guard it jealously and
zealously, and invoke the blessing of God upon it
always. And when one after another, children 
cluster around its holy precints, let them feel
the influence which rests upon it and reverence
the devotion which makes it powerful for good,
and never do aught to mar or detract from its
beauty and symmetry.  Do you ask of what this
altar shall be made? of the purest thoughts,
the truest emotions, and fortified with respect
for each other and honor for God.  Never give
expression to an evil thought which may take
form, or it will assuredly leave its impress.  A 
little thing will shatter it- so frail and delicate
is its nature.  Watch the little things that may
destroy its beauty; for once it is soiled or defaced
the less will you observe it, and by and by you
will cease to regard it with the tenderness and 
adoration once felt for it; and then farewell to
happiness, save that which is momentary. The
idol is shattered which gave home its prestige;
for wanting the altar of love, how poor is all
else, though furnished sumptuously.  Think of it,
you whose "strings of pearls adorn your brows
to-day, like precious diadems, and never crush
one, the least of all, beneath your feet, but connt
them o'er and o'er, and touch them ever with a 
soft caress, and as time goes on, they will grow
more strong, until even storms may beat upon
them and they will not be broken.


