AMANDA  SMITH.
The name of Sister Amanda, or Mrs. Warren
Smith, is well known to the Latter-day  Saints.
She has had a most eventful life, and the terri-
ble tragedy of Haun's Mill, in  Caldwell County,
when her  husband  and  son  were  killed, and
another son wounded, have  made  her name fa-
miliar to all who have read the history of the 
mobbings and drivings in the State of  Missouri.
Her biography would make an interesting book,
and  would abound with  incidents  of wonderful
manifestations of  the power  of God  in healing
the sick and wounded.  Mrs. Smith is a native
of New England, and was born in Becket, Berk-
shire  Co.,  Mass., Feb. 22,  1809. Her parents
were Ezekiel and Fanny  Barnes; she was one of 
a family  of  ten children. Her  grandfather, on
her mother's  side, James  Johnson,  came from
Scotland in an early day, and in the  revolution-
ary war held the office of General; he was a great
and  brave  man.  Singular  indeed it  is that
many of the Latter-day Saints  that  have been
driven from their homes and plundered and suf-
fered cruelties at the hands of  mobs  are  the  di-
rect descendants  of  the  very  men who fought
for liberty and freedom in the early days of  this 
country.  Sister  Smith  says  her  father  left
Massachusetts when she was quite  young and
went up to Ohio, and settled in Amherst, Lorain
County.,  where the family endured all the  pri-
vations and hardships incident to a new country.
She says:  "My father was one  of  the  honorable
men of the earth, strictly  honest, but  made no
profession of religion, or  did not  belong  to any
church; my  mother  was  a  Presbyterian. I
clung most to my  father, and  partook  more of
his nature  and  strength  of character.  I was
considered rather  an  odd, strange  child  in my
father's house,  and certainly my  life  has  since
been  a most peculiar and striking one.
 "At eighteen years of age  I  was  married to
Warren Smith; we  had  plenty  of  this world's
goods and lived confortable and happily together,
nothing of particular  interest  transpiring until
Sidney Rigdon  and  Orson  Hyde  came  to our
neighborhood preaching  Campbellism.  I was
converted and baptized  by Sidney  Rigdon; my
husband did not like it, yet gave his permission.
I was at that  time the mother of two  children.
Soon after  my  conversion  to  the Campbellite
faith Simeon  D.  Carter  came  preaching the
Everlasting Gospel, and on the 1st day of April,
1831, he baptized me into the  Church  of  Jesus
Christ, of  Latter-day Saints,  of  which  I have
ever since been a  member. My  husband was
baptized shortly after and we were united in our
faith. Before a year had  passed  away  I gave
birth to a pair of twins witho[-]t pain  or  any suf-
fering whatever. This  was  a  'marvel  and  a
wonder' to all, I had suffered so much  with my
other children.  The whole country aronnd were
excited over it, and  thought it  was almost dis-
graceful.
 "We  sold  out  our  property in Amherst and
went to Kirtland, and bought a place west of the
Temple, on  the  Chagrin  River,  then  we  en-
joyed ourselves in the society of  the Saints, but
after the failure of the  Kirtland bank and other
troubles in that place, in consequence of our ene-
mies,we lost all our property except enough to fit
up teams, etc., to take us to Missouri. We started
in the spring of  1838, and  bade  farewell  to the
land of  our  fathers  and  our  home  to  go and
dwell with the Saints  in  what  then  seemed a
far-off place.  Our relatives who were not in the 
Church,  were  very bitter against  our  going  off
into the wilderness, as they termed  Missouri in
those days,"
	There were several  families of us and we trav-
eled  on without much difiiculty until we came
to Caldwell  County,  Mo.  One  day  when we
were going on as usual, minding  our  own  busi-
ness,  we  were stopped by a mob of armed men,
who told us if we went another step they would
kill us all, they  commenced  plundering, taking
our guns  from  our wagons, which  we had
brought, as we were going into  a new country,
and after thus  robbing  us  took  us  back five
miles, placed a guard  around  us,  and  kept us
there in that way three days, and then let us go.
We journeyed on ten miles further, though our
hearts were  heavy  and  we  knew  not  what
might  happen  next. Then  we  arrived  at a
little town of abont eight or ten houses, a grist
mill and saw  mill, all  belonging  to  the Saints,
our brethren and  sisters.  We stopped  there to
camp for the night. A  little  before  sunset a
mob of three hundred armed men came upon us.
Our brethren shouted for the women  and  chil-
dren to run for the woods,  while they (the men)
ran into an old blacksmith shop.
(To be Continued.)


