BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Utah! the Territory, the State of Deseret
in perspective! I feel all will approve and
applaud this subject. Half a century ago the
portion of the globe now known as Utah and
its surroundings, were marked upon the map
as "unknown regions," and little, even in later
years, was known until the Latter-day Saints
located it, as a refuge from mobs and opposing
elements of almost every kind. At once it
gained a prestige, and to-day the eyes of Eu-
rope are gazing upon it as a remarkable spot,
and containing a very remarkable people of
cosmopolitan origin!
	You are aware that Utah is located in what
in geographical language is called "the Great
Basin." Salt Lake City was called the half-
way house to California, and is the metropolis
of Utah. Utah can scarcely be said to have a
history at present, her life is so brief; but here-
after it will be the Mecca of the United States,
if not of the world, for she has been, and still
is, the nursery of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the grand gathering
place of his people! and all must see and feel
that she is a blest land. The atmosphere of
her mountains breathe on the true Latter-
day Saint the very Spirit of God. I 
speak in no flowery language, but simply
express what I feel to be true! Utah
will hereafter be famous for the first grand
Temple raised in the Rocky Mountains to the
God of Israel: would that we could see it fin-
ished, and have the privilege of entering there-
in! but patience, we shall see that day, D. V.
	In altitude, Utah is 4,000 feet above the
level of the Atlantic, which accounts for the
rarified atmosphere we have to breathe. It is
encircled by ranges of lofty mountains, many
of them capt by eternal snows. The soil is
good, and has proved remarkably productive,
but, as you well know, requires irrigation to
make it fertile. The climate is warm, dry and
healthy. 
	According to the first section of the bill
passed by Congress, we find it granted that the
New Territory is bounded on the West by the
State of California, on the North by the Terri-
tory of Oregon, and on the East and South by
the dividing ridge which separates the waters
flowing into the Great Basin from those flow-
ing into the Colorado River and the Gulf of
California.
	Utah is geographically one of the most inter-
esting in the Western world—there is no other
just like it that we recollect on the globe.
Look on the map a little east the Great Salt
Lake, and just south of the southwest pass,and
you will see in the northeast corner of Califor-
nia the summit level of the waters which flow

[Column 2]
on the North American Continent. The Salt
Lake is one of the "lions" of Utah. It is re-
markable in many ways; one is, that no outlet
has yet been discovered. Good salt abounds
at the Lake, and plenty of it; some one face-
tiously remarked there was salt enough to do
the curing of the Union if they could not pre-
serve it in any other way, and another capt it
by saying, "Yes, enough to cure the world it-
self!"
	The resources of Utah are truly wonderful;
it is even now an undiscovered country. A
few years ago coal was not known here, and
now see the abundance! No doubt gold and
precious stones are also abundant, but we want
something that is better for us, and that we can
turn to better account. It also furnishes us
iron—and many other valuable things. I
am lawfully covetous of good things for Utah.
I love her; she has become, or rather I have
become incorporated in her, and I would love
to see her adorned with some of the beautiful.
things of the old world. Our riches should be
spent in adorning her, and blessing ourselves
in blessing her and her people. "She is a bea-
con set upon a hill, that cannot be hid," and
time will develop the finger of God upon her
in a marvelous way. Even the Gentiles feel
she is a favored land; and many of them love
her. Above all our craving to see her beauti-
fied, let us crave and desire that her people
will adorn her by the beauty of their wise,
chaste, intelligent lives, for they are the jewels
studded in the diadem of Jehovah! The true
Latter-day Saints are his sons and daughters;
they are the gold seven times passed through
the crucible of the Gospel of Christ; and will
come out free from the dross of earth, and fit
for the Master's use. So mote it be!

"Land of the West! through passing brief the record of
	thine age,
Thou hast a name that darkens all on history's wide page,
Let all the blasts of fame ring out, thine shall be loudest
	far.
Let others boast their sattellites thou hast the planet star
		Utah! the planet Star!"
