SOMETHING TO DO.

	The most industrious people are the most
successful in whatever place or at whatever
business. Have something to do, if there is
but little remuneration, and occupation more
advantageous will come just as readily, indeed,
is more likely to be had, than if one sits down
to wait for it. Parents who allow their chil-
dren to contract idle habits are sowing the
seeds of sorrow and discontent, which will grow
an abundant harvest of misery and wretched-
ness, perchance crime. It would be much ea-
sier to contrive some simple home employment
for the little folks than to settle all the entan-
glement and strife among children who con-
gregate in herds to play, to quarrel and to get
into mischief of every variety and kind imag-
inable, even were the trouble to end there.
	Little girls usually have domestic duties to
perform when very young; "helping mama"
implies a great deal, and it may be a potent
reason why we find, in looking matters plainly
in the face, that among the working classes
there are fewer idle women, than lazy men.
	Many little boys do positively nothing. There
is no wood to chop now-a-days, and no pigs to
feed, no cows to milk, no garden to make for
those who live in the heart of the city; papa
is away at his business, and mama is very busy,
her hands are so full with baby and all the
household duties, and she forgets the old adage,
"Idleness is the parent of many vices." The
boys are noisy and make her head ache, she
gets weary and nervous with their boisterous-
ness, and so they are sent into the street to
play, and there they pick up all the slang, and
get initiated into evil habits, before the parents
have the least suspicion of any harm having

[Column 2]
been done. Something to do is a necessity for
the children; not "all work and no play," but
some positive, regular work each day to form
habits of industry, in order that the children
may grow up to be useful members of society.
Lazy boys are the material from which the
drunkard and the criminal are oftenest made.
And children who are brought up idle seldom
take kindly to steady employment of any sort.
Some work to do, then, is an essential matter
in the training of a child, and should form a
portion of every child's education. Practical
work; not the theory, but the real, genuine ar-
ticle. Beware of idleness! in fact, beware of
idle people; they are not fit for companions,
they are a nuisance everywhere, and generally
complain of the cruelty of fate. There is so
much real pleasure in work, especially of that
kind to which nature seems to have adapted
one, that it seems strange that people should
enjoy idleness. But habit is second nature,
and children brought up idly have no true ap-
preciation of the benefits of pleasures of labor.
There are many who think work at an early
age hinders physical development, and indeed,
heavy, laborious work in childhood, early and
late, continuous, does have a tendency to re
tard growth and so forth, but a moderate
amount of even toilsome work is healthful and
invigorating, as well as elevating and enno-
bling.
	There certainly is a tendency in this age to
despise work, to scheme and contrive to make
money without laboring for it; and men who
have amassed fortunes in business speculations,
etc., although they may have been industrious
boys when commencing life themselves, often
forget it is as necessary that their sons and
daughters should know the true value of money
as it was for them. The facts prove that one
does not profit so much by the experience of
others as by having practical lessons them-
selves, and on this subject of industry and en-
ergy, or something to do, it is imperative that
each one for himself take an active part. Our
forefathers and mothers thought work indis-
pensable in the education of the children, rich
or poor. All were taught industry and econo-
my. How do we find it to-day! We have
terribly degenerated in these respects. The
boys despise the employment by which their
fathers accumulated their wealth, and often
blush to hear it mentioned, and in fact despise
actual labor in whatever form; and this is one
of the causes of the large class of men of lei-
sure, who, after having squandered the fortune
inherited from their parents, resort to number-
less methods to live without work. If we
Latter-day Saints would not see our boys grow
up in idleness, then we should begin by setting
them to work at something, instead of allow-
ing them to run the streets and follow after
the dreadful practices of men who lounge about
the streets and appear to live upon the corners;
idlers, who have no apparent aim in life. I
know many people think they cannot leave the
city, and here there are no suitable places for
their boys, but how much better to go where
there is land to till, and farm work to do, hon-
orable work, than to remain in the city for the
sake of a few attractions, that seem a part of
their life, because they have always been used
to them. This is a subject one cannot help think-
ing upon, if they notice the crowds of boys
who seem to have nothing to do. They may
by and by go out and settle a new colony, but
if they have never been accustomed to labor
they are not the mettle of which pioneers are
made.
