BY HANNAH T. KING.

'Tis Sabbath morning! calm and bright in rest!
The very atmosphere breathes peace and quiet;
And fans my cheek as with a zephyr's touch!
The birds, their notes, troll low, and calm and sweet
As though they realized a Sabbath morn;
A day of sweet Sabbatic Rest for all!—
Can this be fancy stealing o'er my soul?—
A life-long fancy then it surely is,
For from my early days it seemed to me
That God was nearer on that blessed day!
And oft I've stood upon a well-known hill
And whispered, listen—all the world is still!—
These childish thoughts come back to me to day,
And quick my mind rolls back o'er by-gone years.
And lands me on the stage of latter-days;
And in its Drama, there to take a place—
Calmly I sit and ponder on the scene,
And in imagination, realize
A work stupendous, known but to a few
The length, and breadth, and depth of that vast work
That few, but hold the Primer in their hand,
And only just the "alpha" comprehend!—
And as I muse, the vail is drawn aside
From off my mind! A Temple rises up!
Pure, and white, and standing out in bold relief
All indicating its design, and sanctity!—
I see in visions of my mind the Sentinels
Of Heaven keep eternal watch around—
I see the golden batons of their office
Poised in each one's hand, I see their eyes
Watchful, and omniscient, sedate and mild—
I see the "Dove"—witness of the Sons of God!—
Hovr'ing o'er that consecrated Edifice!—
I see sweet cherubs clustering around,
As ministers to those God-like Sentinels,
They see no night, 'tis an eternal day—
The light of Heaven makes eternal sun;
Around that dedicated Shrine of God!—
A Band of men-Servants of Jehovah
Officiate in its most holy rites,
A Band of sisters, Handmaids of the Lord
Have also ordinations laid on them,
And 'tis to you my Sisters I would speak,
To you. my mind is drawn as here I muse!
How holy is your office!—and how pure
The lives appointed you to live each day,
Within the precincts of that Holy Fane!—
Sisters in the everlasting covenant,
Can you, your holy calling realize
In all its grand responsibility,
For those now living, and for those now dead?
—How sacred do you seem to us outside,
Outside in person—but in the spirit there!
Join'd heart and hand, in all your sacred work—
When bow'd in orisons within those walls
Remember us thy sisters, fond and true,
For be assured we do remember you!
We realize your labors, all of love,
We realize the work you daily do.
And feel His spirit guides you ev'ry day;
And that His angels minister to you,
And hence how sacred is the life you live!
As Priestessess in the Temple of your God!

Of your vocation, little dream "the world"
Yet did they know—I feel there are a few
Would gladly cast their lot with Saints of God!
The Saints of Latter-days—feeling the vanity
Of earthly greatness—all its fallacies
Its tinsel, its emptiness—even its glare!
But know not where to turn for rest and peace;
Pray for their "longing, lingering," weary souls,
That they may hear the Gospel's joyful sound,
Hear and obey, and cast their lot with us,
And swell the serried ranks of latter-days;

[Column 2]
For in that holy Fane I feel to know,
Prayers must ascend, and must be answered too.

I need not say God bless you, for I know
His blessing, and His spirit rests on you;
Our Sister Snow, Minerva, Sister dear,
Here let her rest awhile nor call her home
By any feeling of magnetic aid!
She needs a rest from all her arduous cares,
She'll soon return in renovated strength.
And absence will but make her dearer still;
And now I'll draw my letter to a clese,
Offer the prayer I asked for H. T. KING.
	NOV. 2, 1880.


[Column 1]
