	[CONTINUED.]
	
	They feared, if men, women and children
were in one place, the mob would rush upon
them and kill them all together. The mob fired
before the women had time to start from the
camp. "The men took off their hats and swung
them and cried for quarter, until they were shot
down; the mob paid no attention to their cries
nor their entreaties, but fired alternately. I took
my little girls (my boys I could not find) and ran
for the woods. The mob encircled us on all
sides, excepting the bank of the creek, so I ran
down the bank and crossed the mill pond on a


plank, ran up the hill on the other side into the
bushes; the bullets whistled by me like hail-
stories, and cut down the bushes on all sides of
me. One girl was wounded by my side, and
she fell over a log, and her clothes happened to
hang over the log in sight of the mob, and the
mob fired at them, supposing that it was her
body, and after all was still our people cut out of
that log twenty bullets.” I witnessed that aw-
ful scene, which can never, no never, be erased
from my memory while I live upon the earth; I
can shut my eyes at any time and see it all over
again. The shock to my nervous system no lan-
guage can define.”
	“When the mob had done firing they began to
howl, and one would have thought a horde of
the infernals had escaped from the lower regions.
They plundered our goods, what we had left,
they took possession of our horses and wagons,
and drove away, howling like so many demons.
After they had gone I came down to behold the
awful scene of slaughter, and oh! oh!! what a hor-
rible sight! My husband and one of my sons,
tem-years old, lay lifeless upon the ground, and
another son, six years old, wounded and bleed-
ing, his hip all shot to pieces; and the ground
all around covered with the dead and dying.
There were three little boys had crept under the
blacksmith’s bellows; one of them received three
wounds; he lived three weeks, suffering all the
time incessantly, and at last died. He was not
mine, the other two were mine. One of whom
had his brains all shot out, the other his hip shot
to pieces.” This last was Alma Smith, who
lives at Coalville, and who still carries the bul-
lets of the mob in his body, but was healed by
the power of God through the careful nursing
and earnest faith of his mother. “My husband
was nearly stript of his clothes before he was
quite dead; he had on a new pair of calf-skin
boots, and they were taken off him by one whom
they designated Bill Mann, who afterward made
his brags that he ‘pulled a d—d Mormon’s boots
off his feet while he was kicking.’ Realize, my
reader, if you can for one moment, the dreadful
scene—nothing but horror and distress. It was
at sunset when the mob left and we crawled
back to see and comprehend the extent of our
misery. The very dogs seemed filled with rage,
howling over their dead masters, and the cattle
caught the scent of innocent blood, and bellowed.
A dozen helpless widows grieving for the loss of
their husbands, and thirty or forty orphaned, or
fatherless, children were screaming and crying
for their fathers who lay cold and insensible
around them. The groans of the wounded and
dying rent the air. All this combined was
enough to melt the heart of anything but a Mis-
souri mobocrat. There were fifteen killed and
ten wounded, two of whom died the next day."
This is only an item of the terrible tragedy known
as the battle of Haun’s Mill. There were not
men enough left to bury the dead, and they were
thrown into an old well that was dry, and cov-
ered with straw and dirt.
	My good friends who read this awful recital,
can you, do you wonder that the children born
about the time of these fearful mobbings and
drivings, should be imbued with a spirit of
avenging the wrongs perpetrated upon these in-
nocent, harmless immigrants? I think not. It
is these and similar persecutions of adding insult
to injury, that have made the Latter-day Saints
feel so indignant when, after leaving the civil-
ized regions, they are again pursued by their
enemies
	To be continued.


