		REPORTS. 

	The fifth semi-annual conference of the  Re-
lief Societies of the  Bear Lake State, held in
the St. Charles  meeting house, March 6 and 7,
1881.   Sunday  morning  session  there  were
present  on  the  stand  Pres. J. P. Lindsay and
Counselors;  of  the  Stake  Presidency, Pres.
Wm. Budge and  Counselor J. H. Hart;  Bish-
ops  J. A.  Hunt,  Robert Calder, R. Price  and
some  of  the  Elders;  Presidents  and  other offi-
cers of branch Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations.  Meeting  called to
order  by  President  Lindsay. Sang, "Hail to
the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad  morning," &c.
Prayer  by  Pres.  Budge.  Sang, "Sweet  is the
work  my  God  my  king," &c.  Pres. Lindsay
made  a  few opening  remarks;  was  pleased to
see  so  many present, and hoped that whatever
was  said  would  be  dictated  by the  Spirit of
God and  prove  beneficial  to  all.  Roll called
for  the Stake  officers  of  Relief Societies, also
the  leading  officers  of  branch societies. Min-
utes of  previous  conference read and accepted.
Verbal  reports  of  the  Societies  in  the Stake
were given  by their  respective  Presidents, or
representatives. The reports were very  favor-
able, showing  that  a great  degree of interest  is
taken  by all  connected with  the Associations, 
who are  doing  all  in  their power to help emi-
grate  the  poor  from  Europe,  and  respond
cheerfully to  every call  made  upon  them by
the servants  of God, who preside over them in
the priesthood. 
	Coun. Elizabeth  Collings  was  thankful  for
a  standing  in  the  Church  and  Kingdom of
God. Exhorted  the  sisters  to  be  diligent in
seeking for the  Spirit of God, and in all  their 
words and actions to set an example before the
rising generation worthy of imitation. 
	Sister Emmeline  Rich  said  she was  pleased
to  meet with  the brethren  and sisters, and de-
sired  an  interest  in  the  faith  and prayers  of
the Saints. Felt to be one with the sisters, but
had not  been  able  to  attend meetings of late
as  often  as she  desired.  Thought the sisters
were  doing  a good  work. Unless  we attend
our meetings we will fall short of the blessings
promised by our Heavenly Father.
	Pres, Lindsay  was  pleased  with the reports
of the  various  societies,  and  commended  the
sisters very  highly for the interest they exhibit,
and their  willingness  to  respond  to  the calls
made upon them.
	Sang, "But in the last days  it  shall come to
pass," &c.  Benediction  by  Bishop  J. A.
Hunt. 
	Sunday afteroon session.  After  the usual
opening exercises, the Sacrament was adminis-
tered  and  the  statistical  and  financial report
of the  Relief Societies  read  by the Stake Sec-
retary, as follows:
	Statistical and financial report of the Relief
Societies  of  the  Bear  Lake Stake for  the six
months ending  February  14, 1881.  Statisti-
cal: Teachers, 125;  members, 515;  total officers
and members, 640;  meetings  held,  115;  aver-
age attendance, 231;  Church papers, 133;  WO-
MAN'S  EXPONENT,  32.  Financial:  On  hand
at date  of last report, cash, $113.79; property
$439; wheat, 1160 by. and  47 lbs, at  one cent
per lb,  $696.47.  Receipts,  eash,  $157.33;
property, $140.48;  wheat, 49 bu. and 15 lbs, at
one cent per lb, $29.55;  total receipts, $1576.62.
Disbursements: to  needy,  property,  $74.80;
emigration, cash, $56.28;  Temple, cash, $40.94;
property, $64.52;  home industries, cash, $82.91;
property,  $61.14;  books, cash $12.83;  build-
ing,  property,  $34.65;  on  hand,  cash, $78.16;
property, $329.85;  books,  $14.52;  wheat, 1210
bu. and 2 lbs, $726.02.
	Pres. Budge  said  he  esteemed  the privilege
of attending the  Conference  of  the Relief So-
cieties  of  the  Stake  very  highly, and  desired
that  the  Spirit  of  God  might  rest  upon  the
congregation, as well as upon those who might
be called to give instructions.  He had not had
the  privilege  of  meeting with  so many  of  the
sisters  in  this  capacity before, as the  general
organization had not been  affected  before  he
went  on  his  mission  to  Europe. From  the
spirit  manifested  by the  Stake presidency, as
well  as  those who  had reported the  condition
of the  Ward  organizations,  he  was  satisfied
that a good work was being done by the sisters.
Many sisters  had  formerly thought  that  they
could not spare time to look  after public inter-
ests, but the more they  way seemed to  open up to
enable  them  to  do  good. The Societies were
not only the means of  comforting the poor and
the sick, and administering to  their wants, but
they also  assisted  greatly in  more public mat-
ters, such  as  in gathering  the  poor, building
temples and saving  grain, and  in  these works
the sisters of the Bear Lake Stake had labored
with commendable zeal, and had been, accord-
ing  to  the  reports  which  we  had  heard  this
morning, very successful. He trusted that the
sisters  would  continue  to  enjoy their labors,
and that the spirit of  love and affection would
increase. It was desireable also that the sisters
should,  with  all  their  influence,  sustain  the
efforts the priesthood  were making to  discour-
age  entirely  the  use  of strong  drinks, which,
although not very generally indulged  in, were
used  more  or  less by too many. Prayed that
God  might  bless  President  Lindsay  and  her
Counselors, and all the officers and members of
the  Relief Societies  in  the  good  work which
engaged their attention. 
	Pres. James  H. Hart  endorsed all that had
been said and done during the day. Said time
only can develop the good done by the associa-
tions;  it  can  no  more  be  told  than the good
derived  from  the  early  training  of  a  wise
mother, the fruits  of  which may be seen in fu-
ture  generations.  It was  gratifying to see the
sisters so sound in doctrine as they are proving
themselves to be, also  to  watch the progress of
the  young in  the  Primary  Associations, where
they are taught  of God and his ways. Other
interesting and  encouraging  remarks  and in-
structions were given by Pres. Hart.
	Pres. Lindsay said she had been highly edified,
and did not feel tired  although  the  time  had
expired. Felt  very much impressed to do all
she  could  toward  helping to  gather the poor
Saints from the old  countries.  "It is impossi-
ble  for  me  to tell the Presidents of the differ-
ent Associations  all  their  various  duties,  but
the Lord had promised us his Holy Spirit, that
we may do all that he requires of us." Prayed
the  Lord had promised us his Holy Spirit, that
we may do all that he requires of us." Prayed
the Lord to bless  the people. Hoped  to  see
them all at meeting in the morning.
	Choir sang, "Jerusalem  my glorious home." 
Benediction by Pres.  George Osmond.
	Monday morning, March  7, 1881, 10 A. M.
After the  opening  exercises  of  singing  and
prayer, the forenoon was occupied by the Presi-
dent and officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	2 P. M.  Singing and prayer.  Presidents of
Primary  Associations  reported  verbally their
respective wards, also  general remarks and in-
structions by Primary Stake  board of officers. 
	Coun. Maria  Rich felt very thankful for the
blessings God  had  given  us. Impressed upon
parents the  necessity  of setting  a  good  exam-
ple  before  their  children;  spoke  of  the Word
of Wisdom  and  the  blessings  to  be derived
from a  careful observance  of the same. Said
we should watch  and pray continually lest we
get careless and fall  by the way. 
	Pres. Lindsay  said  this  is  one  of  the  best
Conferences we have had.  The number in at-
tendance  during  Conference was  encouraging
to her, and showed an increase of interest taken
by the people generally.  Instructed the presi-
dents  and  officers  of  Relief Societies  in their
respective duties;  counseled  the  sisters  to  be
faithful  and  diligent, seeking  at  all times  the
Spirit of God.
	Pres. George  Osmond  said  he  was pleased
with the  way the  house  had  been seated, and
had  enjoyed  himself  so well  that  he thought
he would attend  the meetings  again. He had
been  edified and interested during the  Confer-
ence.  Counseled  those  present  to  remember
the  good  instructions  given  and  try  to carry
them out in their daily lives.
	Miss Julia  Budge  was  appointed  and  set
apart for Corresponding Secretary, Miss Teresa
Wihelmson, Treasurer, for the  Primary Asso-
ciations, Pres. George  Osmond and  Bishop J. 
A. Hunt officiating. 
	The Stake  and  local  officers  of  Relief So-
cieties  and  Primary  Associations  were  pre-
sented and unanimously sustained.  President
Lindsay thanked the Bishop  and people of St.
Charles for  all the courtesies  extended during
the Conference, also  the  choir  for  their  good
music.  Choir  sang, "Before  Jehovah's  awful
throne." Benediction by Bishop R. Calder.


[Column 1]
Conference adjourned for six months to meet
at Ovid, unless otherwise directed.
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec'y.
			JULIA BUDGE, Cor. Sec'y.

The Tenth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah County, Convened in the Meet-
ing House Provo City Feb. 25th 1881. Meet-
ing opened by the usual exercises of singing
and prayer reading of minutes of former Con-
ference and reports for the past six months by
Secretaries. Our conference was strictly a
home conference, no visitors out of the County
being present, but all joined in saying that the
spirit of the Lord was with us throughout the
whole meeting. There were present on the
stand President Margaret T. Smoot, Counselor
Mary John, Sec'y. &c. Bishop Johnson was
also present. Pres. M. T. Smoot said, I am
pleased to meet again with my sisters having
been debarred from attending our last Con-
ference on account of sickness; our object in
meeting together is the same; we have many
duties to perform and we have to keep them
before our eyes continually. I am pleased
with our reports. L will be brief but I wish to
speak of our Jubilee box. The Presidents of
the Societies all understand the object, we invite
all of Utah county to contribute to the box we
wish to slight none, we think it will be some-
thing desirable for our children to look at. for
if we could have had such a record of our
mothers written fifty years ago we would have
appreciated it I think. I ask God to bless us
and enable us to perform our duties.
	Bishop Johnson said. the reports please me
very much; there is nothing pleases me more
than to see the work of the Lord progress. We
have gathered here to serve the Lord. Ma
Smoot says in her remarks that the sisters are
trying to come up with the brethren for my-
self I feel grateful to my sisters for their help
and unity of feeling, we should all strive to
work together in union. We have been pre-
ordained to do the work that we are doing, we
are in the places that we should be in, I do
not wish to take up your time but wish to bear
my testimony to the truth of this work. Let
us improve our time that it may be said of us
"well done good and faithful servants." Let
us help build our temples as fast as we can
that we may do a work for our dead. Coun-
selor Mary John said, I feel to indorse all that
has been said, and let us put it in practice, let
us be thankful that we are able to attend these
meetings, let us try to serve the Lord day by
day, let us try to remember our meetings more
punctually in future. I hope to work out my
own salvation that I may have a seat in the
Celestial Kingdom of God.
	After singing, and prayer by Sister R. A.
Holden, meeting adjourned till 2, P. M.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened by sing-
ing and prayer. Ma Smoot said, we will hear
from Sister Zina Y. Williams, after which we
will hear from the presidents of the different
Societies in the County. Sister Zina Y. Wil-
liams said, she would rather listen to the sisters
that were so much older than herself but as
she had been called upon to speak would en-
deavor to do so; and gave a very pleasant de-
scription of letters received from her Mother
and Sister E. R. Snow, showing the work they
had performed in Southern Utah; holding
meetings, organizing Primary Associations, and
Y - L. M. I. A., &c. Spoke of our Primary
Associations, wished to suggest that we put
the names of all the members of the Primaries
in Utah County in our Jubilee box to be
handed down to our posterity. I think it
would be glorious, our Primaries here are in a
flourishing condition. I see such a field of
work here that I can hardly sleep; there has
never been anything yet introduced in this
Church that will accomplish such a vast
amount of good as these Associations, we want

[Column 2]
to save the children so that if we are in Heaven
we can look down and see what they are doing.
I wish the sisters would inculcate in their
children the principles of Celestial Marriage.
It is ennobling and let no mother talk against
her husband before her children, I feel like
saying to my sisters in a voice of thunder, pro-
claim the principle of plurality of wives. Of
course it brings its trials with it but the Lord
will give us strength to bear all our trials and
what would we be worth if we were not tried,
the day is coming that will try us to the very
core and without his Spirit we cannot stand.
etc.
	The Presidents of the different Societies
throughout the County then gave verbal re-
ports of the societies over which they preside,
speaking in praise of the sisters with whom
they were associated, and also bearing their
testimonies to the truth of this Gospel, and to
their belief in the principle of Celestial Mar-
riage. After which SisterMary John bore her
testimony to the truth of plurality of wives and
said I do not see any other way that the Lord
could raise up a race of Kings and Priests,
and I feel determined to teach my children the
principle. I ask my heavenly Father to bless
us all with his holy Spirit while we dwell on
this earth.
	It was moved that we adjourn this Confer-
ence till the last Friday in May. Singing
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow.
Benediction by Bishop Johnson.
	Statistical and Financial reports as follows:
No. members, 2085; teachers, 317; meetings
held, 199; average attendance, 894; Church
papers taken, 297: EXPONENT. 108; disburse-
ments to needy, $627. 12; temples, 141. 95;
missionary, 30. 70; silk, I6. 26; books, 2. 17;
home industries, 80. 15; building 89. 50; sun-
dries, 47. 72. On hand in cash and property,
$8,198, 38 and half, wheat 1870 bushels 32 lbs.
