HOME AFFAIRS.

	PEN Sketch, Living Links and Jesse Burns are
laid over until next issue.

	THERE are a large number of Primary Hymn
Books, and Tune Books to accompany them,

[Column 2]
now ready, sufficient to supply the Territory.
They have been prepared by Sister E. R. Snow,
and published at the lowest prices possible, so
that every child may have one of its own.

	SISTER C. Llijenquist, of Hyrum, sent at Con-
ference time a specimen of cocoons to this office,
which are the largest we have ever seen. The
good sisters of Hyrum are determined to perse-
vere in silk culture, though they have labored
under great disadvantages in many ways.
	
	MRS. Lousiana Heppler has authority to act as
our agent in Glenwood, Monroe, Annabella, Elsi-
nor, Salina, Invernary, Joseph and Redmond,
in Sevier County. Slaterville, Lynne and Mar
[---]sville. Mrs. Mary E. Lightner has been ap-
pointed to act as agent for Minersville.
	
	WE acknowledge with sincere thanks a pretty
little scroll of ornamental paper work by Mrs.
Thomena Sorenson. The whole is cut out with
scissors without patterns. She has made some
very handsome memoiral cards for those whose
loved ones have passed behind the veil. She is
a poor sister and would be thankful for patron-
age.
	IT is a matter of regret that at the last Con-
ference there were no reports from the Young
Ladies Associations of the Territory. The Stake
Secrataries failed in sending in half yearly re-
ports to the central organization as had been re-
quested. There were only two received Davis,
and Weber. Consequently no sort of
showing could be made.

	SEMI-MONTHLY General Retrenchment Meet-
ing in the 14th Ward, Saturday, April 9, was
well attended, considering the unpleasant
weather. Coun. B. W. Smith presided. It
would be well for the sisters from the country
settlements, as well as those who reside in the
city, to make a practice of attending these meet-
ings, as much good advice is given in regard to
the practical workings of women's organizations,
and the duties of women in disciplining them-
selves and their children. The best thoughts
of the sisters are brought forward for the ex-
pression of views and opinions, and consequently
light is thrown upon many principles of living
not perfectly understood. These meetings are a
good school for the development of intelligence.

	A PARTY of thirty ladies, occupying eight car-
riages, met Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Zina D. Young at the depot, on their return
from St. George, March 31, and escorted them to
the Lion House, where a delicious repast was
arranged; and suspended on the wall of the din-
ing room was the motto, "Welcome Home," the
words artistically interwoven with the most ex-
quisite flowers of the season, embedded in moss.
Two poems by Mrs. A. J. Crocheron and ad-
dresses by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson and Mary A.
Freeze,in honor of the arrival of these two distin-
guished ladies, were read during the evening.
Sisters Eliza and Zina responded in a happy
manner. A closing prayer was offered by Sister
Presendia L. Kimball,and the company dispersed
at nine o'clock.

	THE Home Dramatic Club played very suc-
cessfully during Conference two very attractive
pieces, "Pique" and "Rosedale." These ama-
teurs are improving very greatly, and becoming
quite popular in their respective character act-
ing. On the 20th inst. they will appear in "Di-
vorce," something more difficult than the Club
has attempted before. This is said to be a very
charming drama, giving one a good idea of mod-
ern society As people must have recreation,
the theatre should be made attractive in the de-
lineation of the various phases of human char-
acter, customs and habits of life. Virtue held

[Column 3]
up as the perfection of character, and vice ex-
posed, though practised in its most intricate and
fascinating forms. In short, the stage holds up
the mirror to life, and shows us, as nothing else
does or can, what is going on around us.

	THE Jubilee Box, which has been prepared by
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, to be sealed up for fifty
years, is now about ready to be deposited. It
contains contributions from eighty-one persons,
and weighs eight pounds. We publish in this
issue the dedication poem, which will give our
readers a very good idea of the affair. A tin
box is enclosed in one made of wood, and be-
tween the two is placed a list of the contribu-
tions, also a letter, addressed to the prospective
President and Secretary of the Central Board of
Relief Society, asking them to make a similar
deposit for the year 1980, and further expressing
a wish that the custom may be continued from
generation to generation through all time. The
articles are biographical, historical, genealogical,
with some letters of advice and a few poems.
Mrs. Kimball says but little interest was mani-
fested in the box until very recently, and she
had then some cause to regret its not being 
larger.

	A FEW of the personal friends of Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson met at her residence Monday, April
11, to celebrate her birthday and acknowledge
their appreciation and esteem for one who is la-
boring earnestly in the cultivation of music and
painting among our young people, as well as
ministering in her profession as physician and
surgeon to all classes of society when called
upon. Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Presendia
L. Kimball, M. A. E. Watmough, each expressed
her good wishes and love in a short speech, as
well as several others, both brethren and sisters.
Dr. R. B. Pratt read a very well written and ap-
propriate address, and Mrs. Lizzie Felt sang
"Grandfather's Clock," the company joining in
the chorus. Following this, Mrs. Ferguson was
presented with a handsome little clock. The
party was a pleasant one, the supper was deli-
cious, and all agreed the evening had been a
most enjoyable one. The lady in whose honor
it was given, although very much surprised,
collected herself sufficiently to say a few words
in response to her friends just before they dis-
persed.

	"AUTOBIOGRAPHY and poems by Hannah
Cornaby," is the title of a new book of 158 pages,
just from the press, published by J. C. Graham
& Co, of this city. The typographical work is
very creditable and the binding good. It is a
suitable work to put into the hands of the peo-
ple, calculated to inspire faith and promote vir-
tue and truth, and strengthen hope in the fu-
ture, both here and hereafter. The story of her
life is told in an easy, unpretentious, yet charm-
ing style, and when one commences to read, it is
difficult to leave off until the history is finished.
Many of the stanzas have been addressed to in-
dividuals on personal subjects, yet are applicable
to others under similar circumstances. The
writer is an invalid, who has passed much of her
later life in the sick room, and there is a wealth
of tenderness in her writings, a gentleness in
the style that is specially touching, and leaves a
sweet impression of the author's earnestness
and candor. It is a work calculated to do good.
Price, neatly bound in cloth, $1.00; handsomely
bound in leather, gilt edged, &c., $2.50. For sale
at this office and Deseret News.


