KANAB RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun., having sent to
St. George for Sisters Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Minerva Snow, they arrived at this
place Thursday, Feb. 10, 1881. On Friday eve-
ning the Bishop gave a general party to the
ward in honor of these sisters. The amuse-
ments comprised songs, speeches, select readings,
and A Welcome, in behalf sf the R. S. of Ka-
nab, by M. E. Little. We had good instructions
from our much beloved sisters. We also had a
very ample picnic, which caused what Sister
Smith called a delightful confusion. 
	On Saturday Sister E. R. S. Smith organized
a ward Primary Association with 148 members. 
She also effected a Stake organization; the offi-
cers as follows: Lucy A. Johnson, President;
Louisa Spencer and Christine Nuttall, Counsel-
ors; M. Elizabeth Little, Secretary; Mary Udell,
Assistant Secretary; Rachel Ford, Treasurer.
	Sunday, the 13th, they attended school in the
morning, and at seven in the evening held a
joint meeting of the R. S. and Y. L. M. I. A.
The Bishop and a number of the leading breth-
ren were present. Sister Snow Smith said the
time was when we thought that our husbands
would save us, independent of our own exer-


tions. Now we understand that instead of de-
pending entirely on our husbands for salvation
and position, we have to work them out our-
selves. The responsibility and labor that devolve
upon women are becoming more important. If
society is reformed, it is to a great extent because
women are refined. And the well being of her
children depends much on her influence and ex-
ample. These societies are to be helps to the
Bishops, and take many cares from their hands.
We are organized in Ward and Stake capacities,
and it is necessary that every sister should come
forward and take hold of this work, for the bene-
fit of their daughters. The Lord wants us to be
a peculiar people. Felt that none of us draw as
near to Father as we should. When we get the
victory over ourselves then we are saved. "I
would say to my young sisters, never shrink
from a duty. God has put the means in your
hands to become queens and priestesses in his
kingdom, if you will only live for it." She gave
much more good instruction; also spoke on seri-
culture.
	Sister Zina D. Young—"My sisters, we have
had a feast of correct principles, that will save
us if we will listen to and put them in practice.
Celestial Marriage is a principle from God; He
commanded it, and sent an angel to reveal it to
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Treat it sacredly,
my sisters, for the Spirit of the Lord is grieved
when you speak against this principle. Sisters,
never speak disrespectfully of your husbands;
never allow your children to do so; but help and
sustain them in all good works." She also spoke
on sericulture.
	Sister Minerva Snow said: "I feel very hum-
ble. The blessings that we have received this
evening are enough to strengthen us and make
glad our hearts, if we are true and faithful. I
have traveled with these my sisters and had much
joy in their society. I have felt to wish that all
my sisters had the same privilege. We should
overcome our failings. What are the little trials
of this life, to the great blessings that are before
us if we are faithful? I know that the principle
of plurality is true, and that it is from God.
When I see my young sisters embrace this prin-
ciple I feel like throwing my arms around them
and asking the Lord to bless and protect them
from all evil."
	Sister Snow Smith organized a Silk Associa-
tion.
	During the evening we were blessed with
some of the gifts of the Gospel.
	Tuesday, 15th, the sisters left for the other
settlements in the Stake, accompanied by Bishop
W. D. Johnson, Jun., Presidents Harriet Bunt-
ing and Lucy A. Johnson; they also held meetings
with the R. S. and Y. L. A. They returned to
Kanab Wednesday, 23d, when they met with
the sisters of Kanab, at their sewing meeting
Thursday, 24th, at which time we received much
good counsel. Friday, 25th, left this place for
St. George.
	The visit of these our sisters will long be re-
membered by us as a time of rejoicing. May
they live many years to continue their good
work, and may we again be visited by these and
other honored representative sisters of our
people.
