[CONTINUED.]

	The steamer bearing the company in which
Sister Eliza was traveling arrived in Liverpool
Nov. 19, and the tourists remained two days in
that city, and then went up to London, where
they spent nine days sight-seeing, calling on
dignitaries, and visiting places of note. Sister
Eliza expressed as much pleasure in all the
variety of wonders with which London abounds,
as any young lady could have manifested. The
spirit of poesy, which has never forsaken her,
helped to give expression to the delight and
enjoyment of the journey, and wherever she
went she burst forth in song, which her ready
pen soon committed to paper. In London she
penned a poem named after that grand city,

[Column 2]
which the readers will find complete on the
26th page of the "Correspondence of the Pal-
estine Tourists." We extract a few lines:

To New Westminister Palace we resort,
Where the Chief Justice holds his August court;
'Twas then in session and the Exchequer too.

	Sister Eliza does not appear to have lost a
single point of interest in all her journeying;
her enthusiasm never flagged. In London
she attended Conference and met with the
Saints. She said to Elder Junius F. Wells,
who was then there on a mission, "I want to
see all the poorest Saints in London;" and she
went with him to call upon them. This is typi-
cal of her character; if there are any poor
she will search them out, and minister to them
spiritually and temporally. Sister Eliza had
her eyes open to take in London, the most fa-
mous metropolis of the world, but as we are
not writing up a book of travels, but the life of
an individual, we will only tell you something
of the woman and not what she saw.
	From London the party went by train to
Harwich and thence to Rotterdam.
	In the letters written by Sister Eliza and
others of the party, while on their Palestine
tour one may gather correct descriptive ideas
of the places that lie along the route over seas
and country. The book which contains these
is for sale at this office and at the Deseret News
office, and we recommend it as an excellent ac-
quisition to the young people's libraries.
	After visiting Rotterdam, Amsterdam, Ant-
werp and Brussels, and admiring the pleasant
pictures by the way, the neatness and simple
elegance of the country, as well as the grand-
eur and magnificence of the large cities, visit-
ing the Houses of Parliament in that interest-
ing kingdom; they went to Waterloo, and spent
a day there investigating and admiring where
that momentous battle was fought which is so
celebrated in history. Returned to Brussels
and took train for Paris. In Paris they called
upon the American Minister; however he was
absent, but met his son, Secretary of the Lega-
tion, who was very courteous and affable, and
of course they were pleased to meet with one
of their own country people in a foreign coun-
try. In that beautiful city Sister Eliza enjoyed
herself very much, visiting all the most cele-
brated places, and being well posted geographi-
cally and historically, she could appreciate
everything so much more than one not familiar
with the subject by reading and study. At
Versailles they had the opportunity of visiting
the Assembly, and were seated in the gallery
of the Diplomatic Corps facing the President
and the Speaker. President Thiers received
them in the evening, surrounded by his Cabi-
net and members of the Assembly. He was
very pleasant, and expressed his regrets at not
being able te converse with President George
A. Smith in English. The Paris American
Register contained some comments upon the
visit of the Mormon party to President Thiers,
which were quite amusing, and show clearly
how little this people are understood. Sister
Eliza wrote a "Farewell to Paris" in expressive
verse, closing with the following:

"Fair, lovely, Paris! What shall be
	Your future who can tell?
Your lofty spires no more I see—
	Again I say farewell!

	From Paris the party went on to Lyons and
en route for Marseilles. Antiquities abound
in the towns and cities through which they
passed and these are always interesting to a
mind like Sister Eliza's. She has remarked
to me that she never could forget the beautiful
grounds around Marseilles particularly the
shore of the "beautiful Mediterranean." The
party visited Genoa and from Turin to
Venice and so on through Italy. Sister Eliza
was in Milan at the close of the year 1872
away from her mountain home and under the

[Column 3]
sunny skies of far-famed Italia. The Muse
could not be silent and she penned a poetic
effusion to the old year from that famous old
city from which we quote

Good bye Old Year! we both are moving on!
You to the cloister of the mighty past,
To join it to the future yet unborn;
I to the far-famed land of Palestine,
Which has a history of the past, that bears,
With a momentous and eternal weight
Of destiny to all of human kind,
Upon the future, which the passing years
With hurried tread ere long will introduce
With bold magnificent developments.

	Sister Eliza seems to have been in quite a
poetical vein at Florence and writes in poetry
of her villa - dotted hills, and rich-gemmed
parapets of the river Arno, the very name
suggests poetry. She closes with,

The crown of peace is on your head
	Its wreath around your brow;
The royal carpet newly spread
	Adorns your threshold now.

	From Florence the travelers went to Pisa
from thence to Rome. Traveling suited Sister
Eliza both in body and mind she thoroughly
enjoyed it all.

To be Continued.


