OUR SPIRITUAL SURROUNDINGS.

 That we  are more or less influenced by spirit-
ual powers, either  good  or bad, scarcely any one
will deny.  That Satan and his host are seeking
whom  they may destroy we  learn  from the Bi-
ble.  And this is done by them influencing per-
sons  to do wrong, hence it is  by our own acts we
are  condemned.  We  read  of Mary Magdalene
being  possessed of seven devils, and of evil spir-
its  being  cast  out  of  many  others.  Then  we
each have  our  guardian  angels  to watch and
protect us, and these, P. P. Pratt says, "are our
kindred- our fathers  who  have  died and risen
again in former ages." Angels  are  sometimes
resurrected beings,  persons  who once  lived on
this earth, but have passed to the higher spheres.
Spirits  are  persons who have  died  and not  yet
been  resurrected,  or  received  their  immortal
bodies.  History informs us that both have often
returned to earth and made themselves known
to many people.  From  the  Bible we learn that
angels appeared to Abraham, Lot, Hagar, Jacob,
Balaam,  Elijah, Joshua,  Daniel  and  others, and
many angel  visits  are  recorded in the New Tes-
tament,  to  Zachariah,  St.  Peter,  Joseph  and
Mary and St. John, and in the Book of Mormon
we read of angels appearing  to Alma, Amulek,
Nephi and Lehi, and in this age messengers have
appeared  openly  to  Joseph  Smith, Oliver  Cow-
dery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris.  These
messengers  had  some  important  business  to
transact, or  message  to  deliver.  The  Book  of
Mormon says one of the gifts of God is "the be-
holding of angels and ministering spirits."  The
Bible  tells us one  of the gifts is the discerning
of spirits.  From Wilford Woodruff, through the
Deseret News, we  learn  that  he  has, in dreams
that  seemed  almost  real,  seen  and  conversed
with Joseph Smith many times since his death,
and that  last winter  he "had  many such inter-
views with President Young, Heber C. Kimball,
George A. Smith, Jedediah M. Grant, and many
other" who  were  dead.  P. P. Pratt  speaks in
some of his writings of  receiving a visit while in
prison from  his  dead  wife.  How often  do  we
feel  at  times  an unseen assistance, some power
enlightening our minds and making things clear
to  our  understanding, and  assisting us in some-
thing we are doing, when, should we  try to ac-
complish  the  same  object  at another time, un-
aided,  we  would  make  a  comparative  failure.
That  such  is  rendered  may be  proved  by the
following:  "And  it  came  to pass, when Joshua
was by  Jericho, that he  lifted up  his  eyes  and
looked,  and  behold,  there  stood  a  man  over
against him with his sword drawn  in  his  hand,
and Joshua went unto him, and said  unto him,
Art thou for us, or for our adversaries?  And he
said, Nay;  but  as  captain  of  the  host  of  the
Lord am I now come;"  and  it  was certainly by
no mortal  power that  the "wall (of Jericho) fell
flat."
	It may be  argued that it is only on important
occasions that such power is displayed, but many
incidents  have been  related  of  persons  being
saved  from  accident by some peculiar supernat-
ural  impression  of the mind. It was  a  spirit
that  stood before the Lord and said he would be
a  lying  spirit  in  the mouth  of all Ahab's pro-
phets. and so persuade him to go to battle, which
evil terminated  his  life, yet  the  circumstance
seemed  brought  about  in  a  perfectly  natural
way, as though no unseen power was controlling.
	Again, We  read  in the second book of Kings,
about  Elisha  the  Prophet  warning the King of


Israel  against  the  Syrians, and the King of the
Syrians  sent a great  host  to  Dotham  to fetch
him, and  they compassed  the  city.  When the
servant of the prophet saw them he asked him,
"How shall we do?"  And  he  answered, "Fear
not; for they that be with us are more than they
that be with  them."  And  Elisha  prayed  the
Lord to open his servant's  eyes, which He did,
and the young man saw "the mountain was full
of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha;"
thus we see he was protected by spiritual power,
which could not, without supreme assistance, be
viewed by mortal eyes.
	Another instance  is recorded  in  Isaiah, 37th
chap.,  36th  verse.  "Then the angel of the Lord
went forth, and smote in the camp of tthe Assyr-
ians a hundred and four score and five thousand; 
and when  they arose  early in the  morning, be-
hold, they were all dead corpses."
	Possessing the same priesthood held  by these
ancient prophets, we are entitled to and enjoy
the "beholding  (and  protection)  of angels  and
ministering  spirits.  The following  is from  the
history of Joseph Smith in  the Millennial Star,
