THORVALDSEN.

   The great sculptor Thorvaldsen was born at
Copenhagen in 1770. His mother was the
daughter of a peasant; his father was a wood-
carver, who made rough figure-heads for vessels.
When Albert, or Bertel, as his people called him, 
was old enough, he went into his father's work-
shop, and after a little practice it was seen that
his work equalled, and in some points excelled,
his father's. His father saw that if properly
educated, Bertel might be an artist; and at
eleven years old, he was put in to the Royal Ac-
ademy of Fine Arts. He cared for no kind of
study excepting that of his art, which he was
passionately fond of. His teacher thought him
quite a dunce; and when on the distribution of
prizes at the Fine Art Academy, a young
Thorvaldsen got the silver medal, he said it
might be a relative of Bertel's, and thought to
hold him up to the boys as an example of in-
dustry. What was his astonishment on finding
that it was Bertel himself! After that his
teacher called him "Herr," which was a great
honor. In 1796 Thorvaldsen embarked for
Naples, and then went to Rome. The Danish Ac-
ademy supported him  there six years, and at
the end of that time he prepared to return to 
Denmark. As there was trouble about getting
his passport he was delayed, and while waiting,
a wealthy gentleman entered his studio, and
seeing the statue "Jason," he was so charmed
with it that he ordered it in marble. An agree-
ment was made, and Thorvaldsen remained in
Rome. After that he was more prosperous.
   Napoleon ordered "Alexander the Great en-
tering Babylon" in marble, but by the time it
was finished, Napoleon was an exile. Poland
ordered two statues; but being delayed by
sickness they were not finished till after the
fall of Poland. Nevertheless, he found sale for
them. During this time the "Jason" was sadly
neglected, and it was twenty years before the 
gentleman received it! Thorvaldsen returned to
Copenhagen on a visit; but he had but little
peace, as his rooms were constantly crowded
with visitors.
   Again he went to Copenhagen. He was
received with all the pomp and glory that
could be devised by both king and vassal; and
even his native sky welcomed him home, as
there was a gorgeous aurora borealis at night.
On landing he was drawn in a carriage by the
people instead of by horses, although he was
ignorant of the fact until he arrived at the
palace. The people refused to be satisfied until
they had all seen their countryman, and so
Thorvaldsen appeared on the balcony and
bowed to the assemblage. So highly did they
honor him that it is said there was "danger of
his being killed with kindness." Thorvaldsen
moved in all classes of society. His shoemaker
was his friend, as was also the King of Bavaria;
Lord Byron, and Sir Walter Scott were among
his friends.  He died in 1844. His coffin was
carried by forty artists, and on it was lying a
wreath of flowers, wove by the Queen. On


the day he died, he was working  on a bust of
Martin Luther. Among  his  many beauitful
statues are "Night,"  "Morning,"  the "Nest of
Lovers," and the Lion of Lucerne."
M. EMMA KENT.
--The  Watchman.


The women  of Nebraska may well rejoice to
have secured  the  advance  step in the  equal
Suffrage movement having succeded in secur-
ing the passage of the bill to remove the word
"male" from the Constitution.  We had fondly
hoped that Utah might  have  had that honor,
and but  for the  veto  of  the Govenor who
seems  to hold almost  sovereign  power in  this
Territory, Utah might have been  the first.  It
was not for the lack of effort or  championship
on the  part of men or women, and the consti-
uents of those members who voted  favorably
on  that  bill  remember them  gratefully  and
they also remember the others, otherwise.
 THE Thirteenth Anniversary of the National
Woman Suffrage  Association  will  be held  in
TREMONT  TEMPLE,  BOSTON,  Thursday  and
Friday, May 26th and 27th.  All  persons  in-
terested in this great reform are invited  to be
present.
	The speakers will be Elizabeth  Cady  Stan-
ton,  Isabella  Beecher  Hooker,  Zerelda  G.
Wallace, Belva  A. Lockwood,  Rev. Olympia
Brown, Rev. Frederic A.  Hinckley. Phebe W.
Couzins, Elizabeth  Boynton  Harbert,  Rachel
Foster,  Frederic Douglass, Lillie  Devereux
Blake, May  Wright Sewall, Marilla M. Ricker,
Elizabeth L. Saxon, J.  Ellen  Foster, Edward
E.  Davis,  F.  Ellen  Burr,  Elizabeth  Avery
Merriwether,  Clemence  S. Lozier, Rosamond
Dale Owen, Laura De  Force Gordon, Robert
Purvis, Susan B. Anthony and Matilda Joslyn
Gage.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,


[Column 1]
WM. G. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals, Toilet Articles, Perfu-
mery, and a complete line of goods usually kept in a
first class Drug Establishment. All guaranteed to be pure
and fresh, and will be sold at the most reasonable prices.
Special attention given to Physician's Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

