[Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth by Leone O. Jacobs]

Visiting Teacher Messages for the year 1952-53 are a continuation of the course "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth." The scriptural passages for these messages have been taken from the chapters of The Book of Mormon which will be studied in the the- 412 ology lessons this year. However, these visiting teacher messages do not necessarily tie in with the theology lessons, but are complete and separate messages within themselves. The Relief Society has a sacred obligation to teach the gospel to the sisters of the Church, and these visiting teacher messages are designed to help in the fulfillment of this responsibility. The general board particularly desires that the visiting teacher message leaders fully sense this responsibility; and | we urge them to encourage the visiting teachers to be conscientious in presenting these messages in an interesting, informal, and _ friendly way in Latter-day Saint homes. The titles of the eight messages and their objectives follow: Lesson 9. "Wherefore, Do Not Spend Money for That Which Is of No Worth, Nor Your Labor for That Which. Cannot Satisfy" (2
Nephi 9:51). Objective: To encourage women to seek after true values in life. Lesson 10. "But to Be Learned Is Good If They Hearken Unto the Counsels of God" (2
Nephi 9:29). Objective: To point out the meaning of true education. Lesson 11. "... 1
Work Not Among the Children of Men Save It Be According to Their Faith" (2
Nephi 27 2ayE Objective: To show that faith is necessary in order to receive blessings from God. 
Lesson 12. "Therefore, Wo Be Unto Him That Is at Ease in Zion!" (2. Nephi 28:24) Objective: To point out the need for being always on guard against the wiles of Satan. Lesson 13. "Yea, I know That God Will Give Liberally to Him That Asketh. Yea, My God Will Give Me, If I Ask Not Amiss"' (2
Nephi 4:35). Objective: To encourage praying to the Lord for guidance, and to point out that he will answer our prayers aright. | Lesson 14. "Wherefore, the Lord God Gave Unto Man That He Should Act for Himself. Wherefore, Man Could Not Act for Himself Save It Should Be That He Was Enticed by the One or the Other" (2
Nephi 2:16). Objective: To bring to our minds an awareness of the importance of free agency, and to stimulate its intelligent use. Lesson 15. "... For They Who Are Not for Me Are Against Me, Saith Our God" (2
Nephi 10:16). Objective: To stress the necessity of giving support to the work of the Lord. Lesson 16. "... And If It So Be That the Children of Men Keep the Commandments of God He Doth Nourish Them, and Strengthen Them, and Provide Means Whereby They Can: Accomplish the Thing Which He Has Commanded them" (I Nephi 17:3). Objective: To leave the comforting thought that if we keep the commandments of God he will help us to achieve the things that are required at our hands. Vork Meeting—Home Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1952-53
Rhea H. Gardner "Mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations." —Brigham Young A nation can be no stronger than the homes of which it is constituted. The strength of the home is influenced more by the wife and mother than by any other one person. She guides and directs the activities that go on within her own home, and plays a vital role in determining the kind of homemakers her daughters will become.
Homemakers truly are molders of destiny. The purpose of this course of study is to help homemakers find greater enjoyment and satisfaction in the work they do, and to stimulate appreciation for their membership in the homemaking profession. In his address delivered at the annual general Relief Society conference in October 1951, President Stephen L Richards said: The women that want to get away from home are the women that never learn to have any real pleasure and enjoyment in their homes with their children.
They want to get away, because they are often unhappy....
Some of the work may seem to be mundane, but it is not.
There is no menial, there is no mundane work in raising a family of God's children to return them to their eternal home whence their spirits came. So great is the concept of that undertaking, so glorious the vision of that which follows, that it must, of necessity, give spiritual import and great significance to every single item, however trivial, however small, which transpires in a good home (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1951, page 801). Let us not run away from our responsibilities, but rather learn to discharge them so well that our work will become our greatest source of happiness. A busy homemaker was asked, "How are you able to do so many things?" She answered: "I get energy to do one thing from the joy I have in doing others." She evidently was a successful home manager.
Wise mothers use the housekeeping jobs as the curriculum through which children grow to mature adulthood. Dr. Charters, psychologist of Ohio State University, has said that between the time when a baby throws his bowl of cereal on the floor to the time when he finds — a cloth and wipes the floor clean without being told, after spilling something, there is a long and patient process of learning. He points out that the way the teaching is: done can make the difference between a genuinely mature person and an unhappy, maladjusted adult.
Rather than to think of home management as a joy involving only scrubbing, cleaning, dusting, cooking, and patching, let us look beyond these processes to the bigger accomplishments and view them as they affect the lives of family members. The course will cover a two-year period of study.
During the curPage 413 414 rent year the following topics will be treated: Lesson 1. Of My Home Lesson 2. Making Hours Count Most Lesson 3. Using Energy Wisely Lesson 4.
Providing for Order and Convenience in the Kitchen Lesson 5.
Providing for Order and Convenience in Rooms Other Than the Kitchen Management 
Lesson 6. Spring Housecleaning Lesson 7. What Is Income? Lesson 8. How Can Income Best Be Used? Note to Class Leaders: Class leaders are encouraged to watch for current articles written by qualified persons in magazines and newspapers to supplement the lesson material in The Relief Society Magazine. References for additional reading will appear with the lessons.