[Alchemy by Caroline Eyring Miner]

Alchemy Caroline Eyring Miner Sorrow may be changed to wisdom By some strange alchemy, And wisdom lead one in the way To sweet felicity. Social Sctence—The Progress of Man Part Ill—In the Way of Destiny preview of Lessons for 1952-53
Elder Archibald F. Bennett HE seven lessons for 1952-53 conclude the series taken from The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. Part III is entitled "In the Way of Destiny." In this, as in the previous periods studied, we see two opposing camps in battle array. The forces of evil and oppression and ignorance are marshaling all their might to stay the destined triumph of righteousness; but theirs is a losing fight. The purpose of God cannot be frustrated. A study of the worldwide advances of this period will convince us, with Moroni, that "the eternal purposes of the Lord shall roll on, until all his promises shall be fulfilled" (Mormon 8:22). Many of those purposes have been already established; much remains to be achieved. But the irresistible trend of events is ever toward their accomplishment. Wise men, inspired of the Lord, drew up the Constitution of the United States. Similar devotees of freedom in Great Britain and in other ands were moved upon by the same spirit, and greater free agency was guaranteed to many peoples. The doctrine was accepted widely that all men are entitled to equal rights and justice. Under these favorable circumstances, it was possible for the gospel to be restored and promulgated, and the Church to be organized to endure and increase. 
The Church teaches loyalty to established governments under which its members live; and these believe in "obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law' (12th Article of Faith). Yet it recognizes the fact that no government upon the earth is perfect, and that even the best of them can only serve as a preparation and a forerunner for that glorious period when Christ shall rule and reign over the whole earth.
During the millennium, wickedness shall be removed from the earth, and peace and justice and righteousness shall prevail.
Dangerous trends toward irreligion and immorality, meanwhile, are all too evident on every hand, and in every country.
There is an almost universal tendency toward treason against God and his divine and saving principles.
Nothing short of genuine repentance can stay the decrees of destruction which shall come upon all those who do wickedly.
With every decline in righteous living comes a resurgence of oppression and dictatorial government and efforts to deny man his agency. The world today, wounded and bleeding, is fearful of fresh outbreaks of unimaginable destructiveness. 'The signs of the fulfillment of prophecy are on every hand. In the midst of present turmoil and apprehension, we are permitted, by the light of revelation, to LESSON DEPARTMENT see beyond the impending ills to the glorious future when the Savior shall come in glory, evil shall be banished, and world-wide happiness shall prevail. Man, becoming more and more God-like through faithfulness, can eventually attain to his destined high place in the future, a glorified and perfected being on a celestialized world.
Such a vision should carry us forward in full faith.
Following are the lesson titles and objectives for this year: Part IJJ—In THE Way or Destiny Lesson 15. The Constitution of the United States (Text: chapters 25- 29) Objective: To present the truth that in a critical period of American history the Lord raised up wise men to establish the Constitution of the United States, for the protection. Of the rights and privileges and moral agency of man.
Lesson 16. The British Constitution (Text, chapter 39) Objective: To make clear how Great Britain has set before the world an example of free government, the outgrowth of centuries of struggle for liberty, and how her political organization has influenced for good constitutional systems all over the world.
Lesson 17. Church Attitude on Governments and Law (Text, chapter 30, page 347; chapters 32 and 29) Objective: To exemplify the Church teaching that its members should be, 417 loyal to the government and the laws under which they live, and "be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign."
Lesson 18. Modern Trends in Government ('Text, chapters 33-34) Objective: To show that nations, rejecting truth and worshiping worldly things, are drifting toward irreligion and the darkness of hate and evil, and a woeful lack of respect for law and order. The world is aligning itself into two camps, dictatorship and communism on the one hand, and democracy on the other.
Peace is imperiled and preparations for war are on a_ scale heretofore unexampled.
Lesson 19.
Preparing the Way (Text, chapter 35) Objective: To make clear that the Constitution of the United States and other national constitutions which embody good principles are forerunners to prepare the people for the perfect government when Christ shall rule as King.
Lesson 20. The Kingdom of God (Text, chapters 40-41 ) Objective: To explain how, at the climax of world history, the wicked shall be swept off, and the Lord shall come in glory to reign over the righteous for a thousand years of peace.
Lesson 21.
Destiny of the Earth and Man (Text, chapters 42-43) Objective: To emphasize the truth that the earth is destined to become a glorified celestial kingdom, sanctified and immortal, inhabited only by those who attain to celestial exaltation. llotes on the Withow of the Noses HIS year only one writer not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, is introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. She is Mrs. Rhea H. Gardner, author of the