The Gospel Among the Lamanites.

The Lamanites are surely awakening to the need of the gospel of Jesus Christ in their life work here, and in the redemption of their dead who have gone before. It may surprise some of our readers to know that we have already five Lamanite Relief Societies, located in the Northwestern States Mission, Idaho, Utah, Arizona, and Canada. Some of these Societies are comparatively old in point of organization and some are but recently organized. We shall give some data concerning them in future issues of the .

The hopes and faith of the Latter-day Saints are bound up in this awakening and such evidences as are presented to us have a direct appeal to our souls. The following incident was related by President Edward J. Wood of the Alberta Stake of Zion during the late October conference in the Temple Annex services:

The present head of the Blackfoot Indians is a young man named Galbraith, nephew of the old chieftain who died some time since. This young man is a half-breed son of a Scotch father and the daughter of a full blood Blackfoot woman. He married one of our good "Mormon" girls who has sought diligently for his conversion to the faith. He accompanied her usually to the quarterly conferences held in Cardston from their home on

Blackfoot Reserve, just across the international boundary line. He has a beautiful home worth many thousands of dollars and he is a man of great importance and influence both in his tribe and amongst the white people of that region.

At an Alberta stake conference held last year, among the visitors from Salt Lake was Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Council of the Twelve. When the young man entered the Cardston tabernacle and saw the face of Elder Smith who was sitting on the stand, he felt a strong impression to apply for baptism, but he did not heed the whispering voice. When the next stake conference came

Taken some years ago while on a visit to Washington, D. C.

76 .

around he did not go on Saturday. That night he dreamed that he was in the stake tabernacle, and he saw his deceased uncle with five other principal men of his people, also deceased, sitting under the gallery, at the opening of the meeting. The President of the stake beckoned with his finger to these Lamanite representatives to come to the stand, which they all did, and then the old chieftain arose to speak from the pulpit. As he did so he beckoned to his nephew also to come up to the stand, and the young man went accordingly. The old chieftain spoke eloquently and movingly of his people behind the veil that they were waiting and longing for help from this side, that their redemption might be accomplished. He also said he was sent to speak for many of his people who could not come themselves, and finally, turning to his nephew, he said: "You are the only representative of our line left upon the earth and we want you to do the work for them."

When the old chieftain sat down his nephew asked him what work he referred to and how he could do it, but the old chieftain replied that when he was upon his feet he spoke in a tongue unfamiliar to him, and now that he sat down it was impossible for him to recall the tongue or the completion of his message; "but," the old chieftain added, "there are those right around you who can tell you exactly what to do to fulfil this great mission."

So deeply impressed was the young chieftain that he presented himself the next day, which was the Sabbath day, at the conference. At the noon hour he approached President Wood and said he would like to talk with him a little while, if he had time to spare. President Wood looked at him and replied immediately: "I know what you want. You want to be baptized." The young man acknowledged that that was his

purpose and wish, if President Wood had time to attend to it. "We have always time," replied Brother Wood, "to attend to such an important matter as that. I'll refer the matter at once to the bishop."

That evening, at the conclusion of the afternoon session, they repaired to the banks of the stream to fulfil this duty. Almost every man, woman and child from Cardston several hundred in all gathered on the banks of the stream to witness this remarkable baptism. Standing there with uncovered head the young man related this circumstance and bore his powerful testimony to the truth of "Mormonism" and to the work which would be accomplished for his people in the Canadian temple, which is nearing completion.

Who can doubt that these are the last days and that the Book of Mormon is a divinely prepared and translated book; that it is the history of the people who inhabited this continent and who are the ancestors of the young man to whom this testimony has been given?