Current Topics. By James H. Anderson.

"Mormon" chapels at Dublan, Mexico, and Bunkerville, Nevada, were burned down in December. Two German prisoners made their escape from Fort Douglas, Utah, the day before Christmas. Ecuador has broken off relations with Germany, and the Argentine Republic is on the verge of doing the same thing. Thirteen negro soldiers were hanged in December for participating in the riots at Houston, Texas, August 23. East Africa has been cleared of German military forces, after a three years' campaign by British, French and Belgians. Christmas with no snow in the valleys was an experience in Utah for 1917, quite unusual. Germans and Austrians to the number of hundreds of thousands, captured by the Russian armies, have been set at liberty. Red Cross membership in Utah was expected to be swelled to 40,000 in the last week in December; the number reached was 70,000. Oil fields in Wyoming continue to multiply until it looks as if that state alone would be able to furnish the world its oil supply for years to come; Canada has voted to uphold conscription. Evidently the people there propose that the great war will be carried to a successful finish for their side. Prest. Joseph F. Smith returned from California for Christmas, his health greatly improved, to the sincere gratification of the Latter-day Saints generally. Germany is reported to be short of food; but the Germans seem to "cut the suit to fit the cloth" in dealing with the food situations.

Russia has been divided into five republics, all of them of rather uncertain tenure of life, viz.: Finland, Ukraine, Crimea, Siberia, and the one under the Bolsheviki at Petrograd. Gen. Pershing advises his American troops to "never tell anything of a confidential nature to a woman." He must have learned that on the European side of the Atlantic. The Temple at Logan, Utah, was partially destroyed by fire in December, but is being repaired rapidly. The loss was about $50,000. British troops made further headway against the Germans in France in December, but the lines there are so firmly held that a decisive contest seems many months distant. The Jews in both Europe and America are acclaiming Great Britain as the sovereign power under which they can return in safety and rebuild Palestine and its historic capital.

Social disease, discovered through the organization of the national army to be so prevalent in the United States, is now receiving the open antagonism of physicians in civil as well as in army life. Germany made known its Christmas terms of peace, but these were so arrogant and so unassuring for a permanent cessation of war that the Entente Allies could not consider them favorably. Strikes in packing plants in the United States, during the war, are said to have been safely guarded against by arrangements entered into in December, between the employees and the government department of labor. Italy is making stupendous efforts to check the great Austro-German drive into her northern territory, and by the aid of British and French troops seemed to have gained that end in the latter part of December. Palestine is not yet relieved from being trodden under foot of the Gentile Turk, and may not be for a year or two, but the British forces are pushing steadily northward from the line across the country between Jerusalem and Jaffa. Wm. J. Flynn, who for many years has proven a capable and successful head of the United States Secret Service, has resigned, ill health being named as one of the reasons, but the others are not made public. Winter wheat shows an unusual shortage this season, according to U. S. Government reports, and farmers are being urged to plant a much larger area of spring wheat than is customary. Yaqui Indians in Sonora, Mexico, have declared their independence from that country, and to gain their object have instituted a warfare that may have an important effect on Mexico. War with Austria has been declared by the United States Congress to be an existing condition, and it will be found necessary to intern tens of thousands of Austrians in the United States as dangerous aliens. The Browning machine gun, invented by a Utah man, and adopted by the United States Government, is said by experts testifying before the U. S. Senate committee to be superior to any other gun; but the makers of the latter are disputing the claim. Congress began its session in December, and instituted investigations into the government food and fuel administrations and into army supply affairs in the United States, thereby uncovering many unsatisfactory conditions. A prohibition amendment to the national Constitution has been passed by Congress, and will be submitted to the legislatures of the various states. The curse of the saloon is being recognized, and its removal effectively sought. The Scandinavian nations, at a conference held in December, decided to remain neutral in the present great conflict. They think they have enough war being poured out upon them in the existing hardships and losses proceeding from the conflict. The Bolsheviki government, which overthrew Kerensky and seized Petrograd's affairs in Russia, then arranged an armistice with Germany, has proved an unstable government. Russia is in the throes of civil war, with little prospect of improvement for a long time to come.

Numerous government bureaus, national and state, have made at the end of 1917 glowing reports of what they have accomplished; but an analysis shows that many of them have displayed at their chief accomplishment their ability to draw big salaries from the public purse. Jerusalem and Bethlehem were taken by the British troops without the latter destroying any of the buildings in either place; but there was some very hard and difficult fighting in the vicinity before the Turks were driven out, on December 9. The Turks looted the historic churches of all valuable property. Postmaster General Burleson opposes the forming of trades unions among the U. S. postal employees as having no legitimate occasion therefore, since the government fixes the wages and hours. The labor unions are demanding Mr. Burleson's removal from President Wilson's cabinet, because of his attitude on this matter. Pope Benedict, the Roman pontiff, is considering the probability of uniting the Greek and Roman Catholic churches under the pope's leadership, now that the Russian czar is deposed, according to dispatches from Rome. The union of these two branches, taken in connection with their offshoots, would embrace the vast majority of the professed Christian world, and truly would form a great church. Halifax, the great English naval base in the north Atlantic, was the scene of the most terrific explosion known in history, on December 6. A Belgian relief ship collided with a vessel laden with war munitions, and fire and explosion followed, wrecking the city of Halifax, killing 1500 people, injuring 4000, and rendering homeless 25,000 others; while the financial loss is over thirty million dollars.

Jerusalem in the possession of British troops has stirred the world at the Christmas of 1917 as never before along the same lines. Christian, Hebrew, and agnostic, Gentile and Jew alike, in all countries outside of the Teutonic alliance, have rejoiced; and the announcement of David Lloyd George, premier of Great Britain, in response to Germany's peace proposition that "Turkey remain intact," that "Jerusalem never will be returned to the Turks," met with such approving sentiment that it is clear such a peace settlement as suggested cannot be made among the contending nations.

By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.

Sevier Stake. In her report to the General Board, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth represented the conditions of the Relief Society in Sevier Stake as being both prosperous and active. War gardens have been numerous and profitable. Conservation of supplies, by individuals, by wards and by stake officers, has been active and prolonged. Particularly interesting was the work of the Home Economics department in this excellent stake Relief Society. A noticeable feature here was the report of twenty-five orphan children supported by the Relief Societies of the Sevier stake. The Monroe South Ward Relief Society certainly made a record during the past year through the giving of bazaars, parties, the serving of dinners, the making and selling of quilts, through regular donations and the quaint old custom of saving Sunday eggs; these women raised and donated $1,282.52 to seat the new ward church. They paid $86.91 to carpet the aisles of the church. Then they paid $148.25 to freshen and remodel their own Society hall with new paint inside and out, new chairs and benches, and cement walks around the building. The other charity work was not neglected. The Penny Fund received its full quota, and they have purchased a Liberty Bond. Also they have dried apples and bottled thousands of quarts of fruits and vegetables. Good work.

Tooele Stake. The scattered condition of this stake makes it difficult for unified work to be carried forward. The foreign element in Garfield and around the smelters is more or less of a drawback to the work of the sisters, yet the usual activities are carried on, and the Relief Society is the most popular organization in the stake.

Beaver Stake. Especially attractive to the Beaver stake has been the gleaning and storing of wheat during the past season. Most of the wheat has been stored in the Richfield elevator. The Home Economics club of Beaver City rendered it impractical for home science work to be carried on in the past season in our Society, more's the pity. The women of this stake are faithful, diligent and devoted.