North Sanpete Stake. There are thirteen ward Relief Societies in this stake. Out of this number eight Relief Society ward presidents are widows with large families. It is a peculiar fact that widows with children often make more of a success of the children and themselves than they do when blessed with loving husbands. In this stake the fifth Tuesdays are devoted to visiting the aged members of the Society who cannot get out to meetings. One ward Relief Society is purchasing a hall, and all the Relief Societies bought wheat to store against a time of need.

Morgan Stake. All of the branches in this stake are in unusually prosperous condition. It was suggested by this stake that there were not available rooms in our Relief Society Home for those who wish to visit the city to do temple work or to attend conference. As a consequence of this report the Relief Society authority conferred with the Presiding Bishop's Office and a list of available lodging houses has been sent out to every bishop in the Church and can be obtained through this office or the Presiding Bishop's Office by anyone desiring this information.

Bear River Stake. A Red Cross Auxiliary has been organized recently in this stake by Congressman Welling. Prior to this organization the Relief Society sisters collected $3,000 for Red Cross work. The stake officers planted one acre to potatoes and harvested 318 bushels from this acre. There are sixteen Relief Society nurses in this stake. When questioned by the sisters of this stake, Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Council of the Twelve, and Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith counseled the sisters to purchase wheat with their wheat money, and to take good care of it. The recent decision of the General Board was that knitting shall not be done during our meeting hours except at the regular work meetings. The inattention which is an accompaniment of active fingers is not polite to the speaker or class teacher, nor does it permit the members to get the most out of their lesson work.

Our sisters will have plenty of time at home and in the work meetings to do all the knitting for which they can obtain yarn and thus assist the Red Cross cause. Miss Betty McCune, who sailed for France November 5th, sent a cablegram to her parents upon her arrival in that country within a fortnight after sailing. She was well and in good spirits, but no further news has been received. By Janette A. Hyde. How much good has been received from the lessons given in the Magazine depends entirely upon how much time we have devoted to the study and preparation of the same. The main object in the outline work is to place before our women, a thoroughly scientific yet plainly worded study, in order that they may become possessed of such practical knowledge of foods as shall make them competent judges of food preparation, balanced rations, food projects, and food substitutes. If we are expected to win the war with food, we must be well-trained food soldiers, directed by the best general knowledge obtainable by study and experience. In the studying of foods, a thorough knowledge of production is also very necessary. We wish to emphasize the importance of milk and its byproducts as a food, especially for the babe and growing child. While it is true that well developed people may use other foods to sustain life, milk is indispensable to the life of growing children. The idea that there are milk substitutes for children is a mistaken one, and should be discountenanced, as many people deceived by such statements, and through this information are giving children inferior foods, with which, as they suppose, to build superior bodies. Good results do not follow improper feeding, and we find many children deprived of the most precious and righteous heritage, that of strong healthy bodies. If we do not return to some of the old-time customs and ways of producing and living, we will find the prospects for future development much retarded. We are short in the state of Utah, 10,000 milk cows, according to increase of population and decrease in the dairy herd. The loss has many phases besides the shortage in milk supply. It means less fertilization for farm and garden, fewer calves for future mother cows, lessened meat producing sources, with an extra shortage of shoe leather; besides the hundred and one extra products which come from the dairy cow. In the face of these facts, something should be done to stimulate the desire on the part of the farmer to increase his dairy herd. Let us suppose that 10 per cent of the 40,000 Relief Society sisters, would make preparations for one extra cow to be