[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | November | Issue: 10 | Title: COLUMBUS. | Author: BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY]

COLUMBUS.

BY BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.

	[Read at the Concert in the Large Tabernacle
in this City, Oct. 21, 1892.],
So long as lofty peaks o'er lowly plains
Catch first the glimpses of the glorious light
That lumines this dark world; so long shall men,
Or souls that seem far more than men, be found,
To loom above the level of their kind
And greet the earliest rays of rising truth.
What though the shallow world shall scoff and
	scorn,
Not seeing what their mysic sight beholds;
But groping, groveling and denying all,
Save what their sires of antique times have
	known;
ontent to lie at ease in Lethe's vales,
And hating those who soar to higher things!
These walk and talk with God on mountain tops,
On sacred hills of solemn thought, and thence,
Like Moses from the blazing Mount, descend
To kindle wisdom's beacons for mankind.
Of such a one I sing; the Genovese,
World-binder, bridger of the boundless seas,
The conqueror and colossus of the waves,
Who stood on meditation's starry height,
Above the clouds that canopied the age,
And looked upon the earth and said,  "'Tis
	round."
As later quoth Copernicus, "It moves,"
Still later, Galileo, he who groaned
In fetters for a like truth reaffirmed.
Thrice kingly three, uncourtiered and uncrowned;
Not theirs the purple robe and diadem;
Whom sciene crowns full oft doth misery clothe;
Chains were their sceptres, dungeon cells their
	thrones.
And these they portion proud, O sailor sage!
The meed of all thy waiting, wandering toil.
No marvel; thou wert God's, not man's elect,
And thou dist serve Eternity, not Time.
Of tyrant kings and priests—earth’s recreant
	powers—
Who governed but to goad and gall mankind,
The groaning world was weary; and the hour,
The fated hour when Freedom’s prostrate form,
Bursting the shackles of long centuries—
As Samson, rousing, rent Philistian bonds—
Erect should stand in might and majesty,
And shake her locks in anger at er foes,
Drew on apace. 'Twas meet that ere that hour
O tottering thrones and trembling dynasties,
That day of reckoning and red revenge
On crowned and mitered heads and reeking
	hands,
On grinding greed and trampling tyranny,
A haven from the universal storm,
That France saw fiercely burst—yet only saw
The faint beginning, not the furious end—
Should heaven prepare.  A land of liberty,

[Column 2]
A home of peace and human brotherhood,
Where men should equal stand, a sovereign host,
Nor owe to haughty birth their high degree;
Where merit’s star o’er mammon’s might ascend,
Where brain and brawn should blood and birth
	outweigh,
Where law should liberty and life defend,
And tyranny be traitor to the realm;
Where right, not might, should monarch rise and
	reign
O'er all that breathed or blossomed, neath the
	sun;
Where, linked in chain of loving unity—
The only chain that freedom's land could bind—
A sisterhood of empires, hand in hand,
Might time their steps to Truth's triumphal tread,
And march to music of Millennial strains.
Glad harbinger of still more glorious state—
The welding of the nations—world-wide chain—
With Freedom's ensign waving over all.
The brave task thine, bold wrestler with the main,
Europia's pilgrim, Neptune's pioneer!
Tossed not alone on wild Atlantic's crest,
By angry trident of the ocean god,
But on a sea of troubles fiercer still—
The unbelief and envy of thine age,
Whose waves of cold contempt and clouds of
	scorn
And wrathful winds had well nigh overwhelmed
The bark of thy adventurous emprise,
Ere glorious Isabella's friendship beamed,
And Palos saw thy slow-descending sail.
The brave task thine, thou Titan of thy time—
Albeit thy lot to better build than know—
To plow a way for Freedom through the waves,
And plant her standers on a stranger shore—
The banner of the cross, whose law divine
Is love of right and human liberty;
To pioneer a path for Freedom's own,
To pave the way for her great champion—
A mightier e'en than thou—whose patriot arm
Enclothed with thunders of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of a righteous cause,
Should cleave the clanking chain of tyranny,
Which bound, as captive to the chariot wheel
Of Britain's power, Columbia's bleeding form.
And then—oh, glorious conquest, grander far
Than burnished steel and battling hosts might
	win!—
To turn from all he was or might have been,
To wave that all but proffered kingly crown,
And seek the sweet seclusion of repose;
Sufficed to reign—where kings too rarely reign—
Without a rival in his country's love.
Yet thou the glory of that deed shalt share,
Which gave to half the world—thy hemisphere—
What all must have and hold ere Time expire;
Since truth proclaims, had no Columbus been,
Our land had never known a Washington.
What though proud Spain witheld they guerdon
	grand—
Viceroyalty’ of realms by thee unveiled,
Vast revenues no coffer e’er contained—
Pledged recompense, of pain and patient toil!
Could aught by man bestowed thy boon repay—
Thy gift to glory and a groaning race?
Wouldst wish the great debt cancelled? Gaze
	again.
Behold what Time hath wrought—the mighty
	tree
That shelters 'neath its broad and bounteous 
	shade,
From fierce oppression's rain or fiery rays,
And feeds with hope's rare fruit, the refugees
Of Freedom's cause in every land and clime!

[Column 3]
That tree was of thy planting—thine and His,
Who wrought by thee Divinity's design;
Though thou dist never live to pluck the fruit 
Which gladdens now a grateful universe.
Nor lived to see—oh, mockery of fame!
What then had made thee weep, had'st thou been
	less
Than thy great self—thy rightful claim ignored;
Another's name upon the monument
Eternal destiny designed for thee.
But lived to eat the bread of penury,
And moist its bitter crust with burning tears,
To wear the chains which envious power had 	
	forged.
In fires of causeless hate; and then to pass
Unpitied to the tomb, unwept, unpraised
And unrequited.  E'en as some brave bark,
'Gainst which to war all angry winds conspire,
Afar by tempest's fury lashed and driven,
Dismantled, shattered, wrecked, on rocky reef
Goes down in raging seas—so sank thy soul,
Thy stalwart soul beneath life's stormy wave;
Thy greatness lost in man's ingratitude.
Lost but to man's, not to thy maker's gaze,
That ship sails on, and it shall sail for aye.
Thy fame Columbus, sank with Europe's sun,
To rise upon the world thy valor won,
Whose teeming myriads now their homage yield.
What glorious walls and glittering towers appear?
For who doth honor rear these radiant domes?
These "villages of nations," where the waves
Of Michigan the shore of Freedom lave?
Why throng these multitudes that eager wend
From Asia's ancient strand—far-famed Cathay,
Where sage K'ung Fu-tse shone and Yaou reign-
	ed;
Or wise Gautama's home, the Hindu land,
For which thy prows pierced ocean's mystery.
Pacific's coral isles and palmy groves 
Send forth their dusky-hued ambassadors. 
O’er occidental seas their course inclines,
Along the bosom of Balboa's wave.
Anon from Europe's coast, whence greatness
	springs
Too plenteous to praise or e'en to name;
Land of illustrious lives and deathless dead,
Whose deeds, like laurel blossoms, crown her
	head;
From Afric's burning waste, Atlantic's isles,
Swift o'er his billowy breast their vessels bound,
Plowing anew the path cleft by the keel
That bore Columbus to Columbia's shore.
These walls and tower are thine, and thine the
	fanes,
Upreared to science, art and industry,
Whose shining fingers point thy place of rest;
these multitudes, thy pilgrim votaries,
Who hither hie to kneel and pour their praise.
Look down, O sainted soul, upon the world,
A world that now divines what thou didst know,
And more than thou didst deem the world might
	Know;
A world that praises where it once profaned,
Adores where then it scoffed, and lauds where
	blamed.
The mystic wheel hath turned; the last is first,
And first is last—Columbus—Ferdinand—:
Which is the king, and which the vassal now?
If fame be wealth, what fabled wealth is thine!
If love be empire, where they realm's confine?
Behold all nations bending at the shrine,
Columbia, loyal to thy name, doth raise!
And thuse the present for the past atones, 
And more than Spain once promised, Earth now
	pays.


