Conservation of Time and Energy Within and Without the Home (Address Delivered at the April Relief Society Conference) By Lalene H. Hart Since woman's work has many and varied phases, it is quite necessary for her to conserve time and energy in order to meet her responsibilities 1 in the most efficient way. Being woman, our main work and mission both individually and as an organization has to do with the home, which as an institution, is traditionally conservative. Those within it have had only a half-hearted belief in homemaking as a profession and in the functioning of science in every day life. Homes are individual units just as persous are, and there are few ways of reaching them collectively. No outside forces can entirely unify their interest, attitude, or point of view, and set up definite standards for them to follow as a whole. To deal with such an institution, to study it, to serve it constructively, to interpret social, economic and moral responsibility, to help it. O function in civil life, to rehabilitate it when breken or disabled, is not an easy problem; but is intensely interesting. For it requires a great deal of courage even to suggest a practical solution of the problems that come within its scope. Housekeeping is a practical thing. One housewife has said that homemaking is housekeeping plus love and interest. The home should be run upon the same economic principles as the business concern. It needs. Executive ability and systematic management. Some women have more of these qualifications than others. That is why they are better housekeepers and mothers; but many housekeepers could be more efficient than they are. Many things are required of the homemaker. The food must be wisely chosen to meet the body requirements, such as proper proportions of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and vitamines. It must be properly cooked and served so that the most fastid'ous may be well fed. Clothing and fabrics need some attention that the family may be well but not conspicuously dressed, and yet only the alotted per cent. Used in the purchase. The homemaker must be prepared to meet any emergency at any time. The wife should remember that the strain of the husband in earning the income should be met by similiar earnestness on her part in the spending of it. Most of us are inclined to be thoughtlessly lavish in expenditure for non-essentials and in the 
 a setting up of a standard of living which is far removed from the healthful comfort of plain living. We must learn to live in accordance with the laws of nature. A wise course to pursue is to live simply and prudently, to produce all we can and render the best service possible in our respective stations in life. Plan a budget and keep accounts. A budget makes you think before you spend, it enables you to spend wisely, it helps to stop wasteful spending, it stops guess work, it prevents paying a bill twice, it helps to eliminate worry, it saves time and energy, and helps to live more cheaply and better. We have too long believed that if. We live on less than we have and do not interfere with others, we are socially and spiritually justified in spending as we choose. It seems never to have entered our minds that our spending has a direct effect upon business and the social life of the nation; that we as homemakers are consumers and are economically responsible for right or wrong conditions in business. National waste has its beginnings in the home, because of the wrong attitude of the family toward thrift and economy. Waste of labor, through idleness, unemployment, poor adjustments, and lack of honest standards, is an economic problem which becomes a home problem if we realize that the standard in the home is influencing business and industrial standards. The homemaker should know something of marketing; the cause of price variations, effect of purchasing commodities out of season, reasons for purchasing home products, cost of cleanliness and sanitation of food, results of demands in fabrics and fashions, and amount of expenditures for gum, candy and tobacco, compared with expenditures for health, education, and playgrounds. All these affect home life and the cost of home essentials, thus causing a great deal of worry and expenditure of energy., Since women are social beings they are not content to stay wholly within the confines of the home. Besides being the homemaker, she must be a community and city maker as well. This is partly because her children are in the home only a comparatively short time and partly because of her obligations as a citizen and a voter. She must therefore see that there is a neighborhood, a community or city for them to go out into that shall offer as great protection as possible to their health and character. The neighbors' interests become her interests. A certain street needs cleaning, a rubbish heap should be removed, or there is sickness, perhaps some contagious disease, which calls for a friendly attitude and cooperation, particularly in the strict observance of the quarantine laws. She needs to know the source of the water supply, food and milk supply, sewage disposal, proper regulation of proper morals and an understanding of social legislation. im CONSERVATION OF TIME 347 There is no better way of learning public needs and doing public service than through the Church, because of its perfect organization. We learned this from the recent world's war. There is likewise no more effective medium for the doing of good team work. Our own association, the Relief Society, is able to put over civic problems more effectively than the same number could do by working individually. The public health movement has been brought more to our attention because of an increasing prevalence of deviations from normal health, with a consequent economic loss, and also because of the scientific knowledge of the prevention of disease. The public is not like a small child ready to accept without question any new phase of health standards. A desire to live a high standard must be created. It is of the utmost importance for those who teach practical and sane living to be examples of their teachings. The power of example cannot be overestimated. Accumulated knowledge, no matter how valuable it may be, is of little value until it is made to function in the lives of the individuals who make up our public. We must enlist the entire cooperation of any community through. A campaign of education in its own particular needs and the means by which these needs may be most effectively met. There is no more important point of attack than the direction and care of the young mother and child in such matters as sanitary and pleasant surroundings, adequate and suitable diet, and a properly proportioned daily life from the standpoint of occupation, intellectual development, recreation, and rest. That the public is beginning to realize the importance of diet in the prevention of physical defects and ineffiency, is somewhat encouraging. The social service work holds as much interest to the mother as do the health problems. Dr. Caroline Hedger, whom many of you have heard, says that there are three main things that the community owes the child: (1) unimpaired heritage; (2) education; (3) socialization. What the responsibility of the community to the child should be is of recent thought. Formerly "is was viewed as a family problem. The child is the community of the future. To be well born is the right of every child. Just what education is has not yet been determined by educators, but we know that the child must have health, that it must grow properly and that it should be taught right living. It must learn to live with other people; to know others' rights as well as its own. It must learn to do right for the sake of right. Responsibility makes us grow temporally and spiritually. We should make the child realize its own responsibility in the fact that it is a social unit and owes something to itself, its home, the state and the nation. 
 In order to meet all these requirements, and many more, the homemaker must train to be as nearly perfect as possible in her tremendous work. The woman who fails in the management of her home is personally at fault unless handicapped by illness or some other grave impediment. Since homemaking is now recognized as a profession and demands preparation, high schools, colleges, and universities have introduced home economics into their courses of study. Together with these agencies the United States government has placed within reach of every woman the results of its investigations and instructions covering all problems of the home. There is no longer any excuse to be offered for continued inefficiency. For the successful management of a home, one must not only know every phase of the job but must be able to correlate all knowldege and apply it in a practical way so that the result is economically and socially efficient. The homemaker must also be able to train and direct others, who share her responsibility, to be better at the job than she is. The present problem of the world is to live more rationally. While everywhere the growing tendency is toward simplicity in food, in dress, in furnishings, etc., it is estimated that from one fourth to one third of household labor is non-productive or wasteful. Through the study of the different motions in an organized industry it has been the aim to give the worker a particular job best fitted to him. This method can not be as easily applied in the home because the homemaker must be f: tted to do all kinds of work. Think of the change there would be in the economic system if the cooking of all foods, household management and cther household duties were transferred to the industrial system. As the income of the fam'ly decreases, the services of the housewife increases. She is obliged to render services which the small income can not buy. She is forced to labor longer hours to compensate for the deficiency in the income. Of all the savings that have been impressed upon us during the last few strenuous years, saving steps (as an item towar: l saving precious time and strength), is surely the most worthwhile and seems to be the most desirable. Important as it is at all seasons, especially should it be during the summer when energy and ambition are sapped by the heat, and even health suffers if one habitually gets over-tired in accomplishing the day's duties. It is worthwhile the first thing in the morning to plan carefully the day's needs and activities. This really pays even though it be a very busy day. Get the habit of using pencil and paper. Keep your mind on the job with a view of eliminating unnecessary trips up and down stairs, unnecessary steps in performing regular duties, and unnecessary motions of all kinds. The amount of wasted time and energy which goes on daily is ese due to CONSERVATION OF TIME 349 defective arrangement of the kitchen and other rooms. Sometimes these arrangements can not be avoided without undue expense but aside from this there is an important point, the division of time to the best advantage. In comparatively few households will regular time tables be found; but it is important that a definite time be set apart for a particular operation, and that this operation be carried out at the alloted time and within definite time limits. "It is the simplest and commonest habit to be extremely busy in doing one thing after another without: organized plan and consequently to achieve very little. However, one should not be so bound to system that it can not be laid aside if something of more importance presents itself. For instance, the woman who could not attend an address to be given by the President of the United States, because it was her wash day, was a slave to system. Women must learn to choose between the essentials and nonessentials. The daily routine should not only provide for certain working periods, but should also provide for definite rest periods of fifteen minu'es to an hour or an hour and a half as needed. This not only has the effect of reducing fatigue, but also nerve strain, one of the most frequent causes of sickness. The body and the brain should be allowed to relax thoroughly. The time budget is as essential''as the money budget and should be as carefully planned. If working hours can be reduced systematically, the perpetual grind of unfinished work, that causes the worn and haggard look on many a face, can be largely overcome. Nervous tension is very common. It may be relieved by suitable rest periods at suitable intervals or by a change of environment. Some times the cost to a household in providing a vacation, is one of the best items of expenditure in the budget. Owners of big industriai plants have come to know that recreation is essential to good work. Owners of smaller plants, the homes, must recognize this fact too. There are psychological factors which serve to increase the use of energy. There is some truth in the old saying that "a man's work is from sun to sun, but a woman's work is never done." Frequent interruptions and many emergencies often interfere with house work be'ng completed early in the day, but how often it has been remarked that things are not well done unless the process is prolonged for many hours. This is an erroneous and injurious notion held by many housekeepers. Many would resent finding a worker resting at any stage of the work, or even sitting down to do some of the lighter tasks, because it looks lazy. Yet experience and experimental work has shown that this is of great importance in increasing the output of work. As a matter of simple experiment the ordinary daily routine can be checked up most easily by making a number of time tables 
 ~ A given task is performed day after day or from week to week. 'The operation can be timed exactly with the view of reducing or eliminating unnecessary movements. One of the fundamental principles for securing diminution of labor is to dispose of all unnecessary articles in the household equipment, then arrange the essential things so that they can be reached with a minimum of movement and little effort at cleaning. It is told of Thoreau that walking from his home in the woods he found a rock of unusual coloring and brought the same to his cabin home. Later, when he discovered that it required time to keep the specimen free from dust, he threw it away as an unnecessary incumbrance. When a battle ship is going into action, the order is given, "clear the decks," so that nothing may hinder freedom of motion. May not the housewife clear her kitchen and other rooms of unnecessary articles which obstruct action and consume time? It is easier to keep clean than to make clean. The modern kitchen simplifies work with its sink and table at proper height, and its range and labor-saving devices arranged to product the maximum of work with the minimum of energy. Laundry work is also simplified by the advent of the washing machine and mangle. Mrs. C. F. Langworthy, Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture, has performed many interesting experiments by use of the calorimeter to determine the amount of the energy expended in the performance of household tasks, the results of which should be studied carefully and aE by the housewife. EXPERIMENT IN CALORIES Subject: Young woman, 5 ft. 6 in. Tall, weight, 134 lbs. Same breakfast each morning to make the same demands on the digestive organs: 1/2 grape fruit, 1 ts. Sugar, 6 tbs, cornflakes, 2 ts. Sugar, 14 c. Cream, I slice buttered toast, 1 glass milk. Sewing: foot operated machine 20.9 Cal. Pr. Hr. Sewing: motor operated machine 8.9 Cal. Pr. Hr. Sewing: hand stitching, 30 stitches per. Min. 9.4 Cal. Pr. Hr. Sewing: hand stitching, 18 stitches per min. 5.6 Cal. Pr. Hr. Ironing: 24. Cal. Pr. Hr. Sweeping: 40. Cal. Pr. Hr. Washing: 49. Cal. Pr. Hr. Dishwashing: table too low 30. Cal. Pr. Hr. Dishwashing: table too high 24. Cal. Pr. Hr. Dishwashing: table right height 21. Cal. Pr. Hr. CONSERVATION OF TIME 351 The experiment shows that by the use of labor-saving devices and the proper adjustment of equipment, the time women save, the strength and energy they conserve, are theirs for the better and richer things of life, which means more enjoyment and happiness. "New occasions teach new duties, time makes ancient good uncouth." The world needs what was best in old forms of family life, represented in the modern life. It should be enriched by the discoveries of science, the development of art, the civic and social responsibility, to the highest ideals. As the days pass swiftly by we need to emphasize the necessity for wise expenditures of time, money, and energy on the part of everybody. Whether women understand it or not, forces quite beyond our power are giving them a part in the economic and political life of the nation. While our accomplishments in the past have been marvelous, there is much yet to be done, requiring faith, fortitude and fidelity. While appreciating the saving of time and energy by the accumulating science and art of domestic economy, it should not be thought by any one that the home is not the'best place to put into practice these important truths. The ideal school is where theory and practice go hand in hand. As our association interprets its objectives and develops a program inviting to all women of the Church, our members may broaden their contacts, and receive the benefit of the experiences of each other. We need the home economics woman, the business woman, the woman professionally trained in social service work, the trained homemaker, and last, but not least, the mother in the home, endowed with rich experience in the rearing and training of her children and making tremendous contributions to our theories of the care and training of the modern child. In conclusion, may I present the following picture of the cheerful home, by Strickland Gillian, entitled, "YOUR HOME" "Set the stage of cheerfulness all about your home; Shift the scene for happiness, and. More of it will come. Build the windows high and wide; make the woodwork white; Use the sort of draperies that seem to give off light. Throw away the sombre stuff, leave no place for gloom; Coziness is stuffiness?let the light have room. Have a grate with cannel in, or fireplace with logs; Make a home that always smiles through rains or snows or fogs; Clothe the walls with pink-shot gray with tinted leaves and birds? Fill the place with joyfulness more eloquent than words. Build it so, no matter how the world may shape your day, You can hurry home again and still be blithe and gay, 
 Moods are from environment, not from deeper things? Who can nurse a grievance in a living room that sings? Set your stage for happiness; write no cues for frets; yd Cheerfulness invited in, will never send 'regrets'. May we mothers and homemakers face our problems correctly and with proper attitude, always asking for Divne guidance, that we may perform our duties, individually and collectively, as God intended we should. Swat the Fly The Relief Society as an organization has always been very much interested in the "swat-the-fly" campaign, that has been carried on for the elimination of the fly throughout our communities. From July on, the fly is apt to be a very great pest, unless every effort is put forth to get rid of it. The following article from the pen of Professor Walter Cottam, of the Brigham Young University, selected from the columns of one of our local papers is to the point: THE MOST DEADLY BEAST OF OUR COMMUNITY Most people are horrified at the sight of a snake. Should one of these loathsome creatures, as harmless as they are, appear on one of our city streets, some women would scream, others would faint, and Mr. Snake would be straightway put to death. It is claimed by some statisticians that on the average two people die in the United States every year from snake bite. The figure is possibly too high. The abhorrence we have for snakes seems to be inborn; a trait handed' down to us from Mother Eve. What a pity she did not. Implant a racial abhorrence for the house-fly! This creature is the most deadly of all vermin known to man. At least 70,000 of last year's deaths in our country alone could be traced directly to this imp of Satan, this winged tool of Death, the house-fly. One-third of all typhoid fever cases and an unknowable proportion of such filth diseases as spinal meningitis, tuberculosis, and summer complaint of children is directly carried by the detestable fly. Why is he such a carrier of disease? One needs only to observe his habits and look at his hairy body under the microscope to find a ready answer. He is the filthiest of all creatures: born and reared in a manure heap, he takes wings to a privy vault, a daub of sputum, or some equally obnoxious filth, and thence directly to the dinner table or the baby's milk bottle. One cannot help but wonder if the fly is not struck with some sense of etiquette as he alights on one's bread or piece of pie, for his first duty seems to SWAT THE FLY 353 rub the muck and mire from his legs, which he neglected to do in his mad rush to the dining room. Look at the foot of the fly under the microscope and you will be struck with the fact that it is about the best filth gathering organ that could possibly be invented. The thick long hairs, coupled with two sticky cushions on the bottom of each foot, enable the fly to cling to the wall and make all less solid substances cling to it. With these six dusters and twelve sponges, together with a long sucking organ provided with rasp and glue, completes the fly's muck-gathering equipment. And the horrible fact about the fly is that none of this apparatus is cleaned after a visit to the privy vault, until the fly alights on your choice morsel of food. The house fly (sometimes called the typhoid fly) has no teeth nor fangs nor sting, yet death follows in his path. He is the vilest of all that is vile,?the filthiest of all that is filthy. If we have flies in our communities, it simply means that either I or my neighbor or both of us have filthy yards. I can clean my yard until it is no habitat for flies, but it will avail me little if my neighbor breeds them on his premises. No city ordinance can keep my, neighbor's flies at home! What can we do? The Pageant THE ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE WHEEL OF PROGRESS Wednesday evening, April 4, the General Board entertained the stake officers and their friends with a pageant entitled, "The Organization of the [irst Relief Society and the Wheel of Progress," at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. The entertainment was presented by the Ensign stake. The opening exercises consisted of the singing of "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet" by the congregation, the invocation offered by counselor Susan W. Williams, and the speech of welcome made by President Elsie B. Alder, of the Ensign stake. Each division of the pageant was put into the hands of a director who worked under the supervision of Mrs. Nettie Maeser McAllister, director of the pageant. The reading of well selected scriptural texts by Harold Hoar and George Nelson, representing, respectively, an ancient and modern propliet was singularly effective, as was the music under the direction of Stella P. Foote and Louise W. Davis. The opening exercises created a fitting atmosphere for the presentation of the prologue. The prologue consisted of: two parts, a Tableau of Woman and the First Relief Socety Organization. 
 On a platform near the organ in the Assembly Hall, placed at such advantage that all in the house might see her, stood Woman at a closed gate. Faith, Hope and Charity attended her, but these did not release her. Finally Organization appeared?the bands were snapped?and liberated Woman stood forth. The second part of the prologue consisted of the staging of the First Relief Society. Eigtheen women and three men, dressed in the quaint costumes of the period, made up the picture representing the First Relief Society organization. In this group were seen the Prophet Josph Smi. H, Elder John Taylor, Elder Willard Richards; the first president, Emma Hale Smith; her first counselor, Sarah M. Cleveland; her second conuselor, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and fifteen charter members. Then came a tableau of the five past presidents of the organization, introduced in the order of their time of service, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, which placed before the audience Emma Hale Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, and Emmeline B. Wells. This was followed by the pageant proper, "Wheel of Progress." Mother Earth and Father Time bemoan the past and present condition of their children in the world and feel that naught save destruction is ahead of them unless help comes from some source. To symbolize this condition, Mother Earth sits with her hands upon a broken wheel with many missing spokes. Social service appears and tells her that she has the spokes within her keeping that will repair the broken wheel. She then introduces her ministers: Health, Employment, Education, Recreation, Spirituality and Organization who, each in turn, explain their mission to the world. Mrs. Mary L. Willis as Mother Earth, and May Bell Thurman Davis, as Social Service, pleased the audience with the clearness and beauty of the tone of their voices None of their choice sentences were lost through poor enunciation. The finale was particularly gratifying in that it brought before the audience President Clarissa Smith Williams, who was presented with a beautiful bouquet of roses, and Mrs. Nettie Maeser McAllister, who likewise was presented with flowers, and who deserves much credit for her part, both in the authorship and in the directing of the pageant Two features of the pageant are deserving special attention: First, the co-operation that was had from all the wards of the Ensign stake, making this splendid living, moving picture possible; secondly, the use of the Relief Society women in the main to form the pageant. We are all accustomed to young girls being used for drama and pageantry, but in this instance, we have a most effective piece of work done by women, generally speaking, who are either approaching, in, or past, middle life.
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Panguitch Stake
The accompanying picture is the Henrieville Relief Society of the Panguitch stake. The Relief Society at Henrieville is one of the progressive wards of this stake. Twenty-three members are enrolled and nearly all the women are active in the association. The society has endeavored to give assistance where there has been sickness or need. Meetings have been held regularly and the women have expressed themselves as enjoying and receiving a great benefit from the lesson work. This society has twenty subscribers to the Magazine.
HENRIEVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY
Benson Stake
A pageant, entitled "A Century of Womanhood," was presented by the Relief Society of the Benson stake at Richmond on the Seventeenth of March. About one hundred fifty people took part in the affair, and the Relief Society received many congratulations on this interesting production. After the pageant, the evening was spent in dancing. Every ward in the Benson stake has a Relief Society glee club. The purpose of organizing these glee clubs is to give variety to the meetings, and to cultivate the musical talent of the women. Besides being asked to sing once a month in the Relief Society meeting, they also appear on the programs of various meetings and functions in the wards.


Gunnison Stake
On May 6, 1923, the Gunnison stake, which is a division of the South Sanpete stake, was organized. Ida Swalberg was sustained as president of the Relief Societies of this new stake.
Australian Mission
The president of the Australian mission, Don C. Rushton, in a letter to headquarters, reports that two Relief Societies have been organized in this mission, one at Adelaide, South Australia, with Ellen Watson as president, and another at Hobart, Tasmania, with Julia May Nash as president. President Rushton reports that the mission is progressing satisfactorily, and that the mission, last year, made a great number of friends and converts. Two chapels were built, which speaks well of the growth of the Church in this remote country.
Northwestern States Mission
Mrs. Marie Young, president of the Relief Societies of the Northwestern States mission, reports that her mission is in good condition. The membership of the Relief Society has increased greatly during the last year. The various branches are endeavoring to help alleviate the condition of those in need. They have spent a considerable amount of money caring for those in distress. The funds are usually raised by fairs, parties, and dinners, which are always well patronized. The attendance is good, considering the difficulty the women have in meeting together, for the Saints, even in the larger cities, are somewhat scattered, making it difficult for them to attend the various meetings.
The twentieth anniversary of the Portland Relief Society, which was organized January 18, 1903, by President Nephi Pratt, with only six members, was fittingly celebrated January 18, 1923. Two of the original members, Petrine Westergard and Ida Becker, were present at this anniversary meeting and they both gave interesting talks, reminiscent of the first meetings held by the society. Two pioneer women of Utah, Elizabeth Remington and Rebecca Warren, were also present and spoke of their experiences in Relief Society work in the early days in Utah. Musical numbers also formed part of the program, after which refreshments were served.
Morgan Stake
The Morgan stake Relief Society held its annual conference, Saturday, April 21, 1923, at the stake house. The morning session was divided into two sections, one for the visiting teachers, and the other for the class leaders. In the afternoon, a joint session was held and various phases of Relief Society work were discussed. Special musical numbers were given.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 357
Armenian Mission
A letter has been received from J. W. Booth, who is located in Aleppo, Syria, doing missionary work. He reports that a Relief Society was organized on October 18, 1922, at Aleppo, with about thirty members. It has now grown to a membership of over fifty. The first set of officers, who were fulfilling a temporary appointment, served until March 17, 1923. On this date, a very pleasant afternoon and evening were enjoyed by about one hundred fifty Saints and visitors. A fitting program
OFFICERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF ALEPPO, SYRIA
was carried out, which was followed by an enjoyable social. The following Sunday, the officers were honorably released and new officers were sustained, to take the responsibility for another short period. By changing officers occasionally, it gives more women experience in leadership. A picture of the first set of officers is printed herewith. They are, reading from left to


right: Lucy Junguzian, president; Osanna Hindoian, first counselor; Yeranik Gedikian, second counselor; J. W. Booth, (acted as treasurer); Elsia Uzunian, secretary. The present officers are now active in their work, and are enjoying their activity in the Relief Society. In his letter, Brother Booth states that although the women in Aleppo still, in their habits and customs, resemble the characters of the women of the Bible, they are bound to the women of Zion by their faith in the restored gospel.
Ensign Stake
A conjoint conference of the Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association of the Ensign stake was held in the Assembly Hall, March 10, 1923. Three sessions were held, in the morning, afternoon, and evening. The morning session was conducted by the Primary Association, and President Nellie B. Whitney presided. The aims and purposes of the Primary Association were discussed by various speakers, and a number of Primary children took part on the program. The afternoon session was conducted by President Elise B. Alder of the Relief Society. The afternoon program was prepared by the Relief Society and the various speakers emphasized the need of the auxiliary organizations cooperating so that they would be an aid and benefit to each other. The evening meeting was presided over by Lydia W. McKendrick, president of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the stake. The work of the Mutual Improvement Association was reviewed and the opportunities and advantages that this organization offers to the young Latter-day Saint woman in preparing her for her responsibilities, was emphasized. George H. Wallace of the presidency of the stake, attended all three meetings and he commended the organizations on the spirit of love, unity, and cooperation that exists. In connection with this movement to have the auxiliaries more united in their efforts, and more familiar with one another's groups, a social was given, Wednesday evening, February 21, by the Relief Society of the Ensign stake at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Nelson. The Mutual and Primary boards and their escorts, and a few specially invited members of the Priesthood, were guests. An interesting program was rendered and delicious refreshments were served.
Oneida Stake
A Relief Society has been effected at the Utah Power and Light Company's plant, which is located in Bear River canyon, seventeen miles northeast of Preston. The organization was named Oneida, and will be under the supervision of the bishop of the Riverdale ward. There are eight members enrolled, all of whom are wives of the company's employees. Much inter-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 359
est is being shown by the women of this branch and they are meeting regularly and following the lesson work.
Beaver Stake
A report received at headquarters of the Beaver stake Relief Society shows that this stake is in good condition and is active in all of the various phases of Relief Society. Special effort has been made to increase the average attendance at the regular meetings. The teachers' work has been emphasized and the stake board has endeavored to help the teachers prepare the assigned topics. Subject matter on the teachers' topics has been presented at the monthly Union meetings. Scriptural reading has been an important part of the year's work. The standard Church works have been studied and in the testimony meetings many of the members have commented on the texts read during the month. During the year 1922 nearly ten thousand chapters of scriptural readings were reported at roll call throughout the stake. The Beaver East and West ward Relief Societies recently gave a social in honor of a district school teacher, a non-member of the Church, who has donated two hundred dollars to the charity fund of these two wards in the last two years. During the year a Relief Society was organized at Reed, Utah. Although some of the families live several miles away in the locality, the district teachers have made regular visits to the homes.
IN MEMORIAM
St. George Stake
Mrs. Rosella J. Spilsbury, who since 1900 has been the president of the Relief Society of Toquerville ward, died on December 10, 1922, in Salt Lake City. Mrs. Spilsbury was born at Cedar City, October 22, 1856, and has spent her entire life working for the development of the state and the advancement of the Church. Her experiences in the early days in Utah were both interesting and unique. She learned all the arts of the Dixie pioneer?to card and spin, to pick cotton, to weave cloth for her apparel, and to knit and sew. She also learned telegraphy and was one of the first telegraph operators in southern Utah. She also had musical ability, and was one of the favorite singers in her community. She will be greatly missed by her husband and children, who survive her, and by the entire community, for she had won a place in the hearts of all her associates. She will be remembered as a true friend and her example as a faithful member of the Church will have a continued influence on her great host of friends.
Maricopa Stake
On May 13, 1923, Sarah B. Macdonald passed away in her home in Mesa, after a lingering illness. Mrs. Macdonald was


counselor on the Maricopa stake Relief Society board. She was called to this position in 1914, and she served faithfully in this capacity until the time of her illness and death. She was the mother of eleven children, all of whom, with her husband, Wallace A. Macdonald, survive her. Many expressions of love and esteem were extended to the family. A host of friends from near and far attended the funeral services to pay their last respects to their faithful and true friend. The Relief Society stake board members attended in a group, all dressed in white, and assisted with the services. President Mamie Clark was one of the speakers and paid tribute to the many exceptional qualities possessed by Mrs. Macdonald as a wife, mother, and Church and community worker.
NOTES
Letters for Expectant Mothers
The Bureau of Child Hygiene of the Utah State Board of Health has a set of letters which will be mailed upon request to any expectant mother in the state. There are nine letters in the complete set, and they will be sent, one a month, to the women interested. Each letter contains valuable information and instructions to expectant mothers on their care and on the preparations they should make for confinement and care of the infant.
Nurse Aids Class Begins in August
A new class of Relief Society Nurse Aids will be admitted to the L. D. S. Hospital in August. There is still place for a few girls who are interested in this one-year nurse training course. The course is open to women between the ages of 18 and 35, who have had an eighth grade education or its equivalent. A physical examination and a recommendation from the ward Relief Society president must accompany the application. An application blank will be mailed upon request, together with a circular giving full information and instructions. Address all inquiries to Amy Brown Lyman, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
Nurse Aids Uniforms For Sale
Four nurse dresses and twelve aprons and bibs, size 38 inches bust measure, made for a girl five feet, four inches tall, can be purchased from Mrs. H. O. Post, of St. David, Arizona. The uniforms are nicely made and will be sold at a reduced price?$1.50 each, postpaid, for the gingham dresses, and $15 for the twelve aprons and bibs, postpaid. Any one planning to take the Relief Society Nurse Aids Course who has not yet made her uniforms, might find it to her advantage to communicate with Mrs. Post.
Guide Lessons for September
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) EXALTATION
1. The Exaltation of Place in the Universe. Theologically man and woman stand at the head of the intelligences of this planet. By divine fiat they are in dominion. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 2). But their dominion extends beyond this earth; it reaches out into the universe. The mind of man is greater than all the stars, for it can contemplate them, and they cannot contemplate it. Planets may come and go, worlds may be born and die, but the mentality of man is indestructible. The whole material universe has not the possibilities, wrapped up in it, that is possessed by one human soul, for it can learn and love and grow forever; it can give and increase by giving; thought and love, mercy and justice, all increase by being given. Suns become exhausted through the expenditure of light, but the longer the mind sheds light the brighter it becomes. We must part company with the learned Greek Sophocles who said, "Man is but breath and shadow, nothing more," and enjoy Shakespeare who exclaims, through Hamlet, "What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! In action, how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a God!" We cannot believe with Emerson that Man is a God in ruins, because of our acceptance of the revealed truth that man is a God in the making. This marvelous truth, coming to us through President Lorenzo Snow has become a Latter-day Saint aphorism, "What man is, God once was; what God is man may become." Man's prospective place in the universe is more than that of a contemplator of worlds, it is that of a creator of worlds. On one occasion, President Lorenzo Snow, visiting the kindergarten department of the Brigham Young University where the children were moulding in clay, took one of the mud balls from a child and holding it up said, "Children make these toy worlds now, some day they will make worlds like the one on which we live."
2. Man's Exaltation in Ancestry. We set aside as an unproved theory the alleged ape-ancestry of man, and hold fast to the divine declaration that our first ancestors were the direct offspring of the Gods. "So the Gods went down


to organize man in their own image, in the image of the Gods to form they him, male and female to form they them." (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 4:27.) For the genealogy of the human family from Christ to Adam see Luke 3:23-38. There we find that Adam was the son of God. The appreciation of a high ancestral exaltation forms a foundation for faith in our possibilities, and inspires an ambition towards an ideality that reaches beyond mortality. Naturally the knowledge of noble ancestry produces a self-respect that will not degenerate into self-conceit.
3. The Exaltation of Increase. In the power to beget beings in the form and image of God is an exaltation near to that of creatorship. That parenthood which rises above mere physical progenitorship is one of the highest forms of exaltation for both the now and the hereafter. It is a glory of intelligences; it is founded on soul affinity, yearning for offspring and the approval of the Lord. In the exaltation of increase, attitude is fundamental. The desire for offspring is mental parenthood. There is real motherhood and genuine fatherhood in the yearning for children. The foster-parenthood of people who are denied direct progenitorship is so sublime that it may well be the foundation of high exaltation. In the economy of the spiritual universe no noble desire ever goes unrewarded. Desire for posterity is one of the characteristics of noble spirits. Among the seven great desires of Abraham was the desire for posterity, (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 1:2). One of the three great promises made to this "Friend of God" this "Father of the faithful" was the promise of endless increase. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 2:9.)
4. Exaltation and Ordinances. Ordinances are performed as a part of the process of exaltation. They are expressive of order and the sharing of responsibility. A church without ordinances would be like a state without oaths of office, or business without formal contracts. Unless the words of Jesus are false, we must believe that the rejection of an ordinance is a bar to entrance into his Father's Kingdom. (See John 3:5.) Jesus performed the ordinance of ordaining apostles. (See Mark 3:14; John 15:16.) The whole career of the Savior indicates that he wasted neither time nor effort in doing the non-essential. The sealing ordinance is made one of the prerequisites to the highest exaltation in the world to come. Rejecting this ordinance
GUIDE LESSONS 363
men and women cannot reach the destiny for which they were "added upon" or given the privilege of earth life. (Doc. and Cov. 132:19-20.)
5. Exaltation and Service. Our interest in God comes from a desire to express gratitude for superhuman help already received and our expectation of help yet to be given. Take away the idea of helpfulness, or service, and our conception of Deity as an object of worship is gone. Our Father in heaven has become what he is to us through his unselfish service to us. God has advanced to exaltation above all because he had done more than all for all. Jesus was working out something more than salvation while on earth. He evidently was on a mission of winning the souls of men through service. He already had a place in the Godhead, and possessed the intelligence necessary to the keeping of that position. He had the glory of individual intelligence and was working for the glory of intelligences. He said, "If I am lifted up from the earth I will draw all men unto me," and thus he would have the glory of not only his own intelligence but the glory of the recognition of other intelligences as their Savior-God. There can be no selfishness in a life that gives more than it gets even though it gets much. One who can meritoriously wear the badge on which is the sentence, "I serve," cannot fail of exaltation to the full limit of his righteous desires.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Wherein is man exalted above all the physical universe?
2. Why is a single soul of more importance than a whole system of uninhabited worlds?
3. Show that ancestral exaltation must be supplemented by individual effort to be of much value hereafter.
4. What desires must be behind the exaltation of increase to make it joy-giving and lasting?
5. Distinguish between self-respect and self-conceit.
6. What were the seven great desires of Abraham?
7. Mention the three great blessings promised by the Lord to the "Father of the Faithful."
8. What exaltation is impossible without the sealing ordinances?
9. Discuss the proposition: Ordinances alone cannot guarantee permanent exaltation.
10. Discuss: There are no loafers in Heaven.
11. Discuss. God exalts no one arbitrarily.
12. Describe progressive exaltation as presented by President Joseph F. Smith in Gospel Doctrine, pp. 85-86.


LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September)
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
One of the first writers of fiction in America was Charles Brockden Brown. He followed the fashion of fiction then in vogue in England. Ghost stories and tales, making use of supernatural material, were in style. During his time and prior to it, poets of America were languishing for the mother country. It did not occur to them that the Hudson River was as worthy the poet as the Thames or the Avon, or that the birds that caroled in the interminable forests of America made as sweet music as the blackbird, the sky lark and the nightingale of England. We had to wait until the time of James Fenimore
JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
Cooper for a break from the old world. Cooper gives us the life of the pioneer, in the eastern part of our country. He was born in New Jersey in the year 1789. His father was of English extraction and his mother Swedish in descent. Cooperstown, on Ostego lake, a very beautiful estate, was acquired by his father, William Cooper, for their home. This region was so primitive in its nature that the wild beast and the Indian were as yet its inhabitants. Soon the log house, their first dwelling, gave way to a rather ambitious mansion, and in time Mr. Cooper went to congress. All of his son's later experiences in the city, at Yale university, and in other places foreign to rural life, did not obliterate
GUIDE LESSONS 365
the impressions that nature, in all its primitiveness and grandeur, had made upon his mind. He was dismissed from Yale, not because of any very serious escapades, but because he loved the out-door life very much better than class room exercises. His dismissal from Yale caused him to go on shipboard, as a sailor before the mast. There was no naval academy at that time, so that he had to take his training upon the ship. He visited London and Gibraltar, and on his return received a midshipman's commission. He gave up the sea at the time of his marriage, as his wife greatly preferred that he should spend his life with her in the country, to going to sea.
An odd accident changed the whole course of his life. One day, while reading a dull piece of fiction, he remarked to his wife that he believed he could write a better story than that. She dared him to try, and as a result he wrote a tale of English life entitled, "Precaution," which was very stupid for the reason that Cooper knew nothing of high life in England. He might have given up writing altogether had it not been intimated to him that he was very unpatriotic to choose an English theme for his first novel. This suggestion led to a second venture, which was successful. The revolution was a matter of interest to him, and so he chose Westchester county as his scene. He had heard John Jay tell the story of a spy who had served the American government most fearlessly and unselfishly. From this story he created the character of Harvey Birch, and thereby added a great character to the world's fiction. "A character," says Mr. Trent, "appealing profoundly to the general taste of the period for pathos and romantic contrasts." Mr. Pancost says of The Spy "that its publication was almost as memorable an event in our literary history as the publication of Irving's Knickerbocker History of New York." In a sense The Spy is a historical novel. The fact that it is Washington and no other with whom Harvey Birch has his memorable interview, undoubtedly adds to the charm and power of the book. Nevertheless, Cooper's knowledge of the type of man he was describing and the scenes in which the story was laid, had very much to do with it. A position as a man of letters was now won for Mr. Cooper. Before the year was over, he was known favorably in both England and France.
His next venture was The Pioneers, in which he described scenes familiar in his boyhood. Another venture was The Pilot. He had read Scott's Pirate and declared that it was written by a landsman, so he determined to write a sea tale that would reflect his first-hand experience of the sea. Long Tom Coffin and the pilot himself, and Paul Jones would alone have made the story noted, but to these was added the life of the sea, and in it Cooper did something that no other writer had really tried to do, thus giving America the distinction of creating real


sea fiction. This year chances to be the centenary of the publication of both The Pioneers and The Pilot.
After Cooper's success with The Pilot which had made him something of a lion in New York, he turned again to the battleground of the Revolution and wrote Lionel Lincoln, or the Leaguer of Boston. This book has all the accuracy of detail characteristic of the modern realistic novel.
In February, 1826 Cooper gave to the world the best of all of his works of fiction, The Last of the Mohicans. As a story of thrilling adventure, it is worthy of high praise. Yet, this is only one of its favorable points, for to employ the words of a well-known critic, "It is full of the poetry of the forest, embodied in the great hunter, Hawkeye." Cooper's fame was now at its height, and he could afford to visit Europe. From June, 1826, to November, 1833, he moved from country to country, the recipient of many courtesies which he did not receive in a very gracious fashion. Mr. Trent says, "He was too typical a democrat to make a favorable impression everywhere. He fancied that his success as a writer made it necessary to lecture to both the old world and the new on their particular weaknesses. Because of this fact, he grew to be very unpopular."
The time in which Cooper lived was not as distinct from our own time as one might think at first hand. Europe half feared and wholly misunderstood America during that period. Ignorant and prejudiced travelers were doing their best to make relations still more strained, very much in the fashion that they are doing it today. Cooper's frequent flings, both at his own country and Great Britain, only succeeded in making him enemies in both countries.
During these years of unfortunate controversy, Cooper wrote some of the best and some of the worst of his novels. The famous Leatherstocking Tales give us Cooper's best pictures of the life he sought to portray. These books, The Deer Slayer, 1841; The Last of the Mohicans, 1826; The Pathfinder, 1840; The Pioneers, 1823; and The Prairie, 1827, to name them in the order in which they should be read, are Cooper's greatest contributions to literature. In this series of novels, he has given us Natty Bumpo, or Leatherstocking, at five successive stages of his life. "We find him on his first warpath, humble and as one who had not been proved; we see him in the fulness of his marvelous skill and sagacity, and we see him finally when age has come upon him, his friends dead, his very dog feeble and toothless, his famous rifle, Kildeer, out of date and ready, like its owner, to be laid aside. To thus show the life and development of a single character in five successive novels is a memorable achievement and the success with which this has been accomplished is one of Cooper's highest claims to distinction."