Wrapped in Wool By Agnes Lovendahl, with illustration by the author "Here I be, five years older than you—and I'll tell you right now my days of usefulness are not ended," Bathsheba Webster's tones were decided. "It's your own fault—nobody has to be laid on the shelf unless they want to be." Bathsheba's needle took sure, swift stitches in a white garment—a gift for the little bride around the corner. Bathsheba's hair was white, but it was waved and dressed beautifully. Her face was still firm, and her eyes gleamed with life and fun, A wrinkle—a dimple grown old—deepened occasionally. Her gray taffeta dress seemed to feel the responsibility of being just as rustling and "perky" as Bathsheba herself. "Why don't you quit being an old lady?" she continued. "Well," Grandma West rocked thoughtfully, "when everybody has decided you ain't a bit of use for nothing any more, taint much use as I can see." Grandma West made a strange contrast with the sprightly Bathsheba. Her gray hair was brushed straight back and plastered down with water. A little tight knob of it disfigured the back of her head. She wore a full, heavy skirt of rusty black, a dressing sacque of gray calico, and a blue and white checked kitchen apron. She looked several years older than Bathsheba, and seemed very tired. "TI wish I'd died when I was still good for something," continued Grandma West, "about sixty's the right age to die. What is there I can do now?" A flash of resentment made her lean forward and shake her finger at Bathsheba. "What do I do? I live with Mattie. I have to listen to the noise of the children or sit in a lonely room. They feel I'm a burden. I'm deee, that's what, I'm dependent in my old age on my chilren." "And who's got a better right, I'd like to know?" queried Bathsheba indignantly. "After all you've done for them it's too bad if they can't do a wee mite for you." "Tt's easy for you to talk,"—a note of envy crept into Grandma's voice, "you've got Heber still, and he needs you. But me— sometimes I'd give anything to be with John!" "Annie, you've got no call to be wishing yourself dead. I reckua if the good Lord's left you here this long, he's got some- 
 thing for you to do. Have you done all the work in the temple for the names you've got?" There was a moment's silence. "Mattie thinks the temple work is too hard for me," Grandma said quietly. She felt a little ashamed to make the admission. "Why it isn't hard at all! I'd show Mattie a thing or two! If she'd spend a little more time supervising her children instead of bossing her mother, you would all be better off. Really, Annie, you'd think from the way she handles you that you were made of spun glass. 'Now children, run along, and don't annoy Grandma.' 'Grandma, don't you think you'd better lie down?' 'I think Grandma ought not to have anything but an egg this morning.' Now why are you wearing that ugly scarf around your shoulders this hot day?" "Mattie said—" "Mattie said you'd catch cold in the air, I suppose. And you undoubtedly will with that on. How long is it since you've had a romp with your grandchildren?. How long since you threw pillows and told them stories? How long since you did any sewing except mending? When did you entertain your friends? How long is it since you've spent a dollar without telling Mattie what it was for? You can't call your soul your own, Annie, and you'd ought to rebel." "Sometimes I think I'll say something, but I can't stand to hurt Mattie's feelings. She means for the best, Bathsheba." "Mattie's feelings, fiddlesticks! If folks can't mingle common sense with their feelings they ought to get hurt. Look now—she sold that house of yours after John died, and packed all the things you loved in her old attic, and—" "Sh-h-h!? Grandma West pointed to the slim young figure of her granddaughter running toward them across the lawn from the next house. "T don't care if Barbara is coming,' declared Bathsheba, "T'll finish what I have to say, and I just hope she hears it." Grandma shook her head, with pleading and warning mingled in her look. Bathsheba raised her voice. "That house belonged to you and you should have lived in it." Barbara paused by the porch! "What house, Aunt Bathsheba.?" "The house your mother sold, my dear. She shouldn't have done it. Your grandmother would have been happier there." "Oh, Aunt Bathsheba!" Barbara bounded onto the porch and perched herself on the arm of her grandmother's chair. "Think of how much work she'd have had to do keeping it up! And over home we do everything for her." WRAPPED IN WOOL 259 "Exactly. That is the very trouble. You've wrapped her in wool and carefully placed her on the shelf." "But surely she's much happier with us when we all Jove her so!" cried Barbara as she patted her grandmother's shoulder, "Love her—yes. But does one of you need her? Not one." "Would you have Grandma stay in that lonely old house— all—all alone?" "She could at least have it arranged to suit herself and feel tree to have her friends call. And then," Bathsheba paused and smiled, then bent her head over her work. "T don't see why she would have to be alone. It is my opinion that Annie ought to get married." "Mercy me!" Grandma threw up her hands in horror. "Oh, I reckon you could find a beau—if you'd spruce up a bit—get some Presentable clothes and curl your hair. Now you needn't smile, Babs, your grandma was fully as popular as you in her day. Used to have the young fellows tagginy round till her pa went near frantic. Always had her program filled at socials—two or three for each dance and she'd tell them she'd dance with the one that got there first. She was a pretty thing, Annie was!" "Oh Grandma's blushing!" teased Barbara, "And it's your Ma's fault your grandma ain't sought after now, and you can tell her [ said so," added Bathsheba, "Oh!" Barbara gasped in sudden Tremembrance. "Mother sent me to get Grandma to come and have her dress fitted and IT almost forgot!" "Dress? Now that's the thing!" cried Bathsheba, "It's a new black silk," explained Grandma proudly, "for the Old Folks' Party next F riday." "Old Folks' Party—" va gleam of mischief suddenly appeared in Bathsheba's eyes. "Glory, Hallelujah!": Bathsheba jumped up and dropped her sewing into the chair. "T'll come right along and see about that dress. It's a shame to have it black silk, but if it is bought I suppose it is bought and nothing can be done. But maybe I can tell Mattie how to touch it up a bit >" The next Friday was delightfully warm and sunny and Lib. Erty Park began to fill early with old folks. How childishly eager some of them were for their party! Some hobbled feebly, leaning on the arm of a boy scout guide, some stepped about "real The ladies of the Relief Society were all bustle and stir, setting tables, decorating, cutting cakes. Automobiles threaded 
 their way carefully to the band stand and unloaded their precious cargoes of old people. Old Folks Day! Grandma felt a thrill of pleasure at being remembered and honored. As she hurried with Bathsheba and Barbara from the graveled path to the lawn threading between busy groups, Grandma was pleasantly conscious of the rustle of her new black satin. She was conscious, too, of the pretty light scarf which floated from her shoulders in a lazy June breeze. "T declare I feel most young again," she exclaimed chuckling, her chill fingers pressing white spots on flushed cheeks, her eyes sparkling up at Barbara. "T should hope you would," laughed Bathsheba. "Why you look like a bride." "Don't be foolish Bathsheba," said Grandma gently, but she couldn't help remembering the glimpse she had had of her hair—her dull stringy hair miraculously fashioned by Barbara into a soft frame for her face. "A curling iron and a hair net would improve many a dowdy frump," continued Bathsheba, undisturbed by Grandma's previous rebuke. "And a touch of color like that bit of pink at your throat—well, it does set off one's natural beauty." "Tut, tut! What a tease you are!" Barbara placed chairs comfortably in the shade for them. "Now you sit right here," she said, "while I go to help with the lunch. By and by there will be a band and singing." Grandma sat down obediently. "Sit down, indeed!' exclaimed Bathsheba, smiling in amused tolerance. ''What do you think I came to the party for? To be a wall flower? I'll just walk around a bit. Heber will be down presently and I'd best make good use of my opportunities to flirt with all my old beaux before he appears." Barbara laughed and sped away. "Take good care of Grandma," she called over her shoulder. Grandma's eyes searched the crowd wistfully. There was no one in sight that she knew. At the last Old Folks' Party she had attended, John had been with her. Now—loneliness crept into her heart. Just being here brought back the years with such poignant vividness, She wanted to be young again—young! "Let's walk around and meet folks,' suggested Bathsheba. "T declare there's old Eph Williams who used to be such a cutup. Do you remember his Irish jig and his step dances? He was the one who could step it off lively! He's got a cane now and he's all crippled up with rheumatism, but I reckon he's as lively as ever in his heart. And Annie, he's been a widower— let's see, when did Mary die? It was in—yes, he's been a wid- WRAPPED IN WOOL 261 ower going on for ten years. I'm a good mind to tell him its time to reform." "Oh Bathsheba—" "Come on!" "TI think I'll just stay here. You go see him. I'll just wait." Grandma felt as embarrassed as a girl, and she was unutterably lonely for—just her own John. So Bathsheba left her, promising to return with Eph. "I just can't—can't stand it!" Grandma did not speak aloud, but she clenched her hands. Memories were flooding to her. She felt she must get away from this merry, chattering group. Unnoticed among the fringes of the crowd she scuttled away—her scarf fallen unheeded from her soft hair, her eyes startlingly keen and bright in their dark hollows, like polished stones in ebony. She went blindly, like a person in a tunnel seeking for the light. She felt that her emotions must soon stifle her. A kindly policeman helped her across the main driveway, and she hurried on. Here there was no crowd of old people— just a few children. She sighed as if relieved of an oppressive weight. Then she smiled at her foolishness, and fumbled in her bag for a handkerchief. She carefully wiped a spot that a tear had made on her black satin., She wandered through the playground—wishing she had the youth and joy of these children. She dreaded the thought that her life was to continue useless, unappreciated. Watching her chance, she recrossed the drive and climbed the bridge to the island. She would just sit by the water side. Alone and think it all out. On the bridge she bought a bunch of blue violets from a dirty, grinning youngster who had a basket of little nosegays to sell to the old folks. Grandma stood quite still, staring through and beyond the soft petals on which her fingers rested caressingly. "Ts there anything else, ma'am?" "Dear, dear!' Grandma roused with a start. "But of course, my dear, that was when I was quite young!" How oddly he stared at her! She must have said something wrong again. "I was remembering old times—and thinking I'd not feel so lonesome, if I'd be wearing violets. Somehow I can't get used to his being dead. Seems like he's just stepped into the next room, or maybe round the corner, Today, now, I keep thinking I've lost him in the crowd and by and by we'll find each other. There, laddie, don't old folks get queer notions?" She smiled apologetically, patted him and went on across 
 the bridge. He started after her, shrugged his shoulders and turned away. "Well, well, aren't you the smart lassie, now, tripping off al! Alone and well nigh knocking an old man over!" Grandma started. Confronting her, very dignified with high silk hat and patriarchal beard, stood that young rascal, that cut-up, Eph Williams. She stood staring at him without speaking. Had Bathsheba sent him. To follow her? Indignation brought bright spots of color to her cheeks and a gleam of anger to her eyes. 'Gently he took her arm. "What do you say, Annie—eh—if we have a chat here by the lake? Things ain't nowise near ready for the dinner, and there's such a jam by the pavilion you couldn't find your way nohow."' "Did Bathsheba send you to find me?" "She just told me you were here. I'd been planning for months—" "Well, I really must go," cried Grandma, drawing away. "They'll be looking for me, Mattie and Barbara. They'll be worried most dreadful." "Shucks now, that don't sound like the Annie I used to know. You had a mind of your own then, I'll be bound." He sighed in reminiscence. ''Remember the dance at Social Hall— the night you and I went for a walk—and the moon was still and white just above the mountain peak? You didn't hesitate to speak your mind then! Jing, I thought I could never love another—after you said 'no'—" "Dear, dear!' interrupted Grandma hastily. "I must go— yes, really I must!",;: "You'll not get a chance!" The old man's mouth closed with determination and he blocked her way.. 'Come now, it won't hurt a mite to sort of talk over old times and old friends. Annie," his voice dropped, "I've been awful lonely—" Awful jionely! So the sociable, noisy Eph Williams was old, too, and lonely! Grandma understood, and she tarried, sitting primly straight on a bench by the water's edge. Eph Williams looked at her and smiled. "By gracious, Annie, you're looking pretty today!" Grandma blushed. Why couldn't she behave like a sedate little old lady with several grandchildren nearly grown up? She ought to rebuke him with dignity and hurry away to the protection of Mattie. But she didn't. The old man saw her confusion and talked about the party, and good times they had had in the old days, and of what they were both doing now. GRANDMOTHER WEBSTER COUNSELS INSUBORDINATION FOR GRANDMA WEST 
 "So you're living with Mattie, eh? Well, the boys wanted me to come with them after their Ma died. Not me! I reckon I've got some spunk left! I ain't no invalid as yet to be waited on. Wanted me not to do anything, as active as I've always been! Can you think of it? I tell you I have a great old time tending the chicks and working in my little old garden!" "But how do you manage," asked Grandma, ''with the cooking and the mending?" Eph laughed and clapped his knee. "Can't say I'm powerful successful—and sometimes I do swear, Annie. I reckon I'm toughened to most anything though." "You'd ought to hire a girl—" ' "A girl! What would one of these flip, painted young critters know about an old man's ways? Say Annie—it's you I need—most terribly. I've plenty to keep the wolf from the door, and you've no ties—couldn't we—wouldn't you—Gosh ding, Annie, it's been a long time since I proposed!" Grandma was on her feet. "Really I—" "T know you'll always love John best—you told me that long ago, Annie. But couldn't we make the rest of the journey a wee bit less lonely for each other? 'You'd mean a lot to me. And we could do temple work for our folks that's dead—seems to me God meant we'd ought to be of some use while we live." After all, who really needed her most? She was only a burden to Mattie—and hadn't John said when they were so young and happy together—"If I die before you, Annie, you must'nt waste your life wearying for me. Make some good man happy—be useful in the world." Yes, perhaps John would wish it. But Mattie—!": Grandma smiled—that sudden light smile of hers. "Mattie would say we had both gone completely foolish." "Hang what Mattie would say. I'll handle Mattie!" Eph braced his shoulders and set his jaw. Grandma sighed—contentedly—for that was the kind of protection she liked—it was not protection from' pity. She slipped her hand into his arm. "Tf you can handle Mattie—yes," she said. "Tt's none of Mattie's business!" "Oh!" cried Grandma—but she gloried in the emphasis. Eph Williams sat in the kitchen rocking contentedly and watching his wife, who was frosting a chocolate cake. "You'll likely have a terrible spell of indigestion from this, Eph," she warned him. WRAPPED IN WOOL F. 265 "Don't tell me about it before-hand," he laughed, rising and putting his arm around her shoulders. "T feel as proud as a bride today," cried Grandma, her cheeks glowing. "Think of having Bathsheba and Heber, and Mattie and all the children over to dinner! Why, it's really living again!" THE MORMON CHURCH AGAINST TOBACCO We are told by Will H. Brown, superintendent Press Bureau No-Tobacco League, Los Angeles, that: "The slogan of every auxiliary organization of the 'Mormon,' or Latter-day Saints Church, is: "We stand for the non-use and the non-sale of tobacco." That the fight is already bearing fruit is seen in the large number of "Mormon" store-keepers who are refusing to longer carry the weed in stock in any form. Here is a sample of reports being received at headquarters in Salt Lake City, in ever-increasing numbers—this from Jesse M. Smith, superintendent Y. M. M. I. A. Of the Snowflake stake in Arizona: "Since December first the sale of tobacco has stopped in all towns in this stake, with the exception of three. Two of these _have only a very small population of our people." Here is an instance showing how many users of tobacco look-at the situation, reported by Lorenzo Toulson, manager of the Union Mercantile Co., Smithfield, Utah, which firm has discontinued the sale of tobacco: "I have had many tell me they wish that they could not buy it anywhere, then they would quit using it." How Cowley, Wyoming, disposed of tobacco is told in this Associate Press dispatch of January 25th: "Smoking and chewing of tobacco has been banned here. The action resulted from a campaign started by