(Continued from page 311)
When the fourteenth candle was flaming, Amy Kathryn continued:
These are but a few of her outstanding contributions to the uplifting progress of her fellow men. And now the summation of the light that she has shed in her various fields of achievement entitles her to add a brilliancy to the Hall of Fame.
With this last statement, the little character, Amy Brown, came down the stage into the spotlight and lighted the candle representing the Hall of Fame. This candle was a large white one set in an old-fashioned candlestick made entirely of gorgeous fresh pastel-colored flowers.
In a clear steady voice filled with love, Amy Kathryn continued:
She is my grandmother and I should be modest, but she lighted my candle too, and I am grateful. Sonow dear grandmother, I return the light to you, the giver, that you may go on sharing it with others!
Amy Kathryn then gracefully picked up the huge candle in its colorful, petal-fresh holder, and carrying it the full length of the ballroom she presented it to her grandmother at the honored guests' table. This impressive finale was greeted with great applause.
Mrs. Stewart took the scroll of honor to Mrs. Lyman that she, in turn, might add her name to the list of famous women. Mrs. Shepherd welcomed her into the Hall of Fame and pinned a service medallion over her heart.
Mrs. Lyman's reply was full of appreciation for the honor accorded her. She was particularly happy that it was the women of her own community who selected her for membership in their Hall of Fame.

Articles Needed for Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop
At present the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop is in need of beautiful cotton quilts, sizes 84"x90", and 84"x104". Rugs, sizes 20"x36", 24"x36", and 36"x48" are also in demand. Rugs made on a loom in light or dark colors are very popular and sell readily. Braided, handloomed, or hooked rugs should be made to sell for $4 to $10 each. The shop also needs knitting bags, which may be sold for $2 to $5, and fine netted doilies without linen centers, as well as other useful, unique, and attractive articles.
For more complete information write to or call at Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, 21 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.