[Vol30 | May 1943 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Summer Program of Association]

Summer Program of Primary Association HE Relief Society General Board commends the Primary Association upon the splendid program it is conducting for children, particularly during the summer months when children are not in school and have time on their hands, and when they are working in fields and orchards and need the relaxation that comes from directed play or other activities. 'The program for the current summer quarter features profitable activities of many types, each ward being allowed to select the acPamphlet Available, tivies best suited to its needs. Children as well as adults are affected by war conditions. During war periods it is particularly important that they be given opportunity to participate in interesting, profitable, well-directed activities such as the Primary Association provides. The General Board. Recommends that Relief Society women wholeheartedly support the Primary program, and that they use their influence to have children attend regularly. 'How FRO) Vin on the Home Front ' HE General Board has on hand, T through arrangements made by the National Council of Women, a quantity of pamphlets entitled "How to Win on the Home Front," issued in 1942 by the Public Affairs Committee, Incorporated. The pamphlet contains valuable information for the homemaker during wartime on such important subjects as: Scarcity, Higher Prices, Poorer Quality; The Rules of WarRationing, Quality and Standards, Credit Control, Taxes and War Bonds; Home Front StrategyA Plan of Action, Budgeting for Health, Stretching the 330 Food Dollar, Clothing and Miscellaneous Items, Housing Upkeep, and Going Places and Doing Things. Relief Societies desiring to do so may use this pamphlet as the basis for discussions in summer work-and-business meetings. The information contained in this pamphlet has been obtained largely from the publications of the Bureau of Home Economics of the Department of Agriculture, the Consumers' Guide, and Consumer Tips of the Consumers' Counsel of the Department of Agriculture, and official releases of the Office of Price Administration. Information on taxes and savings came from the United States Treasury. Due to 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the necessity of changes in rationing and the government price control program, some of the information on these subjects is not now current. Nevertheless, the pamphlet contains much valuable information. Although first made available at ten cents each, a limited supply of these pamphlets has been made available to Relief Society without charge. As long as the supply lasts, the  , Utah.