[Vol30 | May 1943 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A Tribute to May Green Parmley]

A Tribute to May Green Hinckley Adele C. Howells, LaVerne W. Parmley The Counselors to Mrs. Hinckley in General Presidency of Primary MAY GREEN HINCKLEY AY Green Hinckley was born in Brampton, Derbyshire, England. She came to Utah with her mother when she was six years old. Her life has been one of faith and service. She has been active in the Church since her early girlhood. She served as a teacher in the Sunday School and in the Young Women's Mutual Improve- 'ment Association. From 1907- 1909 she served as a missionary in the Central States Mission. Upon returning home, she served as president of the Granite Stake Y. W. M. LA. For twelve years. In January of 1936, she was called with her husband, Bryant S. Hinckley, to preside over the Northern Page 312 States Mission. Soon after their release from the mission field, the First Presidency appointed her general president of the Primary Association, which position she held until her death on May 2, 1943. May Hinckley was an able executive and leader in her many and varied positions. She was a tireless worker and had unlimited energy. She knew how to work a little longer, a little harder, and a little better than most people. She had vision, understanding, good judgment, and enthusiasm. In her love and devotion for the work of the Lord she forgot self. As president of the Primary organization, the only desire of her heart has been to help the officers and teachers in the field that they might better teach the children to pray and to walk uptightly before the Lord. She served in humility and love. May Hinckley was endowed with the attributes of true success. She had a grateful heart, a thoughtful mind, a friendly smile, a kindly word, a helpful hand, and a loyal and courageous spirit. The beautiful floral tributes banked high on the stand in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall where her funeral services were held on Wednesday, May 5s, and the large attendance attested to the great love and esteem in which May' Hinckley was held. In her death, hundreds of people have lost a true friend; the Primary organization has lost a devoted leader; the Church has lost a loyal, faithful member; and the community has lost a great woman.