[Vol7 | May 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial: What Women Will Do With the Suffrage]

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS President MRS. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH ------ Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN ----- General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES... - Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth SL Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily St. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julla P.M. Farnsworth Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Miss Sarah Eddin&ton Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crimson Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Nlebaur Nibley Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager ------ AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII May, 1920 No. 5 

What Women Will Do With the Suffrage With the triumphant ratification of the suffrage amendment, the question everywhere in the East is, "What will women do with the suffrage?" It is rather a silly question for its answer is so obvious. Women will use the vote according to nature, inclination, marriage, and conditions, just as men do. For the machinery of government is necessarily conducted by chosen party representatives, who have different views on only one or two fundamental questions. In this country we call the two parties Republican and Democratic. In England people are classified politically as Conservatives and Liberals. As a rule the Conservatives in England and the Republicans in America cling to well established and safe policies in the managing of government affairs. Democrats and Liberals, as a rule, like to try out new ideas. Both sides are really necessary in the conduct of a republican form of government, for one party is a check upon the other. If there were no Democrats, the Republicans would possibly introduce few reforms, while if there were no Republicans the Democrats might introduce so many reforms that we would be trying everything once. The whole contention in heaven before this world was 
 created rested upon the doctrine of "common consent" and "free agency." We are to do right or we are to do wrong because we choose to do it or wish not to do it, and not because we are forced or coerced into doing so. The doctrine of "common consent" was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the beginning of the Church (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 26), and it gave to this people for all time the fundamental principle of pure government. Under that law every woman quite as much as every man should have the right not only to vote for men and measures, in the Church and in the state, but she should also have the right, if she is foolish enough, to refuse to do anything at all about it. If she thus chooses to ignore her responsibilities she is a poor citizen the same as a man who does likewise. She may vote on the right side of a question or the wrong side of the question, just as a man may, according to her likes and her leanings. A right or privilege carries a responsibility, and when women receive the vote they receive with it a heavy responsibility to use it according to their best judgment. Utah women and "Mormon" women have long proved their honorable convictions on this matter. Seventy per cent of those who vote in this state are women and that not because of superior numbers but because more women take advantage of the right to vote. Woman's keen sympathy and reverence for truth and honor will make her susceptible to many sentimental mistakes not made by men. Women feel things as a rule, while men reason them out. Women throughout the United States will use the ballot much as women have done here in Utah. They will flock naturally into the two parties and it will be difficult indeed to make a sex matter of any question unless it comes to a question of moral issue like prohibition or tobacco. By the way, right there you have the test of a woman's attitude on public questions. You may prove to her that prohibition of liquor and of tobacco is un-American and not consistent with the legal right of the individual to do what he pleases. She may agree with you broadly, but she would vote for prohibition just the same if it would keep liquor away from her boys. Her sentiment for the moral issue is greater and deeper than her appreciation of the fundamental laws of individual right. Indeed it is quite probable that the women voters and women nonvoters brought about prohibition by mass sentiment, when men would have been helpless in their appeals to each other. One trouble in the East and South will be that the great mass of women are home keepers only and have not yet learned to take even a slight interest in political affairs. The present political situation for instance in the United States presidential arena will find her lost and puzzled. If she is a Republican and reads the "Metropolitan. Magazine," she learns of such fine things about General Wood, that she thinks he would make a great President. Again after she reads the "Saturday Evening Post," and some of the women's magazines, she wonders how it is that everybody can't see that Hoover is the only man for President of the United States. If she is a Democrat she may still lean a little toward Hoover, but wonders if President Wilson will not get well;  and then, after reading what the "Literary Digest" has compiled about McAdoo, she thinks McAdoo is the only man for President. She reads all sorts of articles furnished by Earl Gaddis and George Creele for the newspapers, and plate prints of country papers, which make out President Wilson and Senator Hitchcock to be plumed knights of some ancient tale. And then finally, she wonders what it's all about! Meanwhile her shrewd husband who has been out upon the street talking to men "in the know," comes home and completely upsets her ideas by telling her that Wood's rich friends have bought up the "Metropolitan" while the grain trust, which controls Hoover, has subsidized the "Saturday Evening Post," and several of the magazines. And she is told that President Wilson's and Mr. McAdoo's press agents, George Creel and Gaddis, have been denounced right in Congress as scoundrels and liars and goodness knows what all. What a terrible world this is after all. Why do men do as they do? She is told that politics is a game, and that old-fashioned political machines are in the discard, while men with barrels of suit money themselves. subsidize newspapers and mold people's opinion to By and by, will come sanity and poise. Women will get wise. They will learn to keep on asking questions about this man and that man, about this policy and that policy. The only way to learn is by inquiring from every point of view, from every side of opinion. After a while woman will become shrewd and will offer her own opinions until she is pretty well decided that this man or that man is about as good as can be found under the circumstances. For after all men who succeed in keeping a shred of character through the lime light of a political campaign can't any of them be very bad nor very un-American, depend upon that. You remember Abe Lincoln said, "You can fool all the people some of the time, and you can fool some of the people all of the time, but you can't fool all of the people all of the time." 
 Woman will rise to the heights of her womanhood in the simple and honest use of the ballot. She will vote in local matters as in national matters for the very best men and the very best measures that she can discover with her more or less limited opportunities. She will learn, she will progress, she will achieve, and her sons and sons' sons will be the better for her striving, her mistakes, and her final intelligent use of power. Even if she didn't do any of these things she has been given a right to vote or not to vote, to be good, or to be bad, without any man dictating to her or holding her in bondage. soon. So welcome home, old vote, you've come none too RULES FOR TABLE MANNERS. Gelett Burgess writing: The Maxims of Japhet, presents the following rules for table manners: My son, when thou sittest at meat with a damsel, have a care how thou eatest, lest thou offend her. For this is the test of love: whatsoever goeth into thy mouth and cometh out again, the same shall try her as with fire. And of these things shalt thou have a care: of the apple, and the orange, and the peach, and fruits with skins after their kind. The cherry and the plum and the olive and the apricot, and fruits with stones after their kind. The grape and the raspberry and the watermelon and fruits with seeds after their kind, of all these things shalt thou have a care. And whatsoever hath seeds or skins or stones, that thou spewest out of thy mouth, these shall be an abomination unto her, unless she love thee. Neither shalt thou pick thy teeth behind thy napkin;  it is abomination of abominations. And if thou cuttest thy potato or any vegetable with a knife, thou shalt be cast out into utter darkness. For she smileth with her lips and sayeth pleasant things;  yet doth her eyes watch thee, and her foot tappeth the floor. It is the end of love.