[Vol7 | May 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS 307 such as cream of potato, of tomato, of celery, of split peas, etc. ;  or the chowders, such as corn or clam, where milk is the chief ingredient. Another great advantage in having the children lunch at home is that it gives the mother a chance to train them in right habits of eating without their being embarrassed by the presence of adults. It is important that the table be set as carefully and daintily for this lunch as for any other meal, and the food served with as great care. The children can in most instances do this work, the training will be of great value to them later and will prevent the bolting of food, together with other bad eating habits such as snatching up part of the meal to be eaten on the way back to school. The Basket Lunch. The lunch which a child carries to school should consist of two parts — the main or solid part, and the dessert, both of which should be simple but wholesome, attractive and appetizing. The main part of the lunch should consist of bread and butter together with some protein food. These may or may not be combined to form sandwiches. Slices of graham bread and butter between which crisp leaves of lettuce are laid, and a boiled egg with salt, form an attractive lunch. The attractiveness is increased if the egg is made into stuffed egg by removing yolk, mixing with a little salt, mustard, vinegar and butter, and replacing in the white. Using the boiled egg chopped fine as a foundation, many appetizing sandwiches may be made;  for example, the egg is moistened with milk or cream and a little chopped celery or parsley added;  the egg moistened with salad dressing, either plain or with chopped olives, and so on. Other good mixtures for sandwich filling are: Grated cheese moistened with milk or salad dressing;  variety is obtained by adding chopped nuts, chopped pimento, chopped green peppers, lettuce, parsley, chopped dates, etc.. peanut butter with which milk has been mixed until a creamy consistency is obtained;  chopped nuts with salad dressing, either plain or with chopped dates, raisins. etc. ;  ground meat with salad dressing. Boston baked beans mashed and spread between thin slices of brown bread make nourishing and appetizing sandwiches. The woman who lives in town and has the city markets at her command has little trouble in providing a variety of delightful lunches if she can but give the matter a little time and attention. But the woman who lives in isolated sections must do much careful planning and preserving of various 
 kinds of food during their proper season in order to secure variety during the winter. The preservation of fruits of all kinds is almost a tradition, but it is only within recent times that we have come to preserve some of the protein foods when they are most plentiful for times when they are less so. For example, the storing of eggs during early spring for use in fall and early winter. . So important has this industry become, especially in country places where the local supply must be relied upon to meet local needs, that the Utah Experiment Station has issued a bulletin which is sent gratis to those asking for it, in which formulae are given and the method of preserving eggs by means of water glass is described. The basket lunch dessert may consist simply of fruit, an apple, an orange, a banana for older children;  or fruit and cookies;  cup custard, etc. School Lunch Needs. No matter how much care is taken in preparing the basket lunch there is still something to be desired for the best nourishment of the child, especially in cold weather. Where it is possible to supplement the basket lunch with a glass of warm milk, or a bowl of soup, the children will be likely to stand the cold much better and be more resistant to disease of all kinds. But the nearest approach to ideal home conditions is provision at school for warm lunch served in a comfortably warm room and under the supervision of persons who understand child nature and know something of the nutritional needs of school children. How These Needs are Being Met. The serving of lunches to children at school had its origin in the idea of improving the public health by providing food for children who could not, or did not, obtain sufficient nourishment at home, and the movement has as yet progressed but little beyond that stage, even though it dates back to the seventeenth century in France and England, and to the eighteenth century in Germany. Great impetus was given the movement in England when it was found at the opening of the Boer war that a large per cent of the British soldiers were found to be totally unfit for service, this discovery leading to legislation which made it compulsory for municipalities to care for its necessitous children. In only a few places in our own enlightened country are far-sighted ones beginning to realize that children in so-called well-to-do districts are sometimes as much in need of the GUIDE LESSONS 309 school lunch as are the children of the slums, because, as has already been pointed out in a former lesson, undernourishment may be the result of ignorance or indifference on the part of parents as well as of actual poverty. When we reach a stage in our social evolution in which warm lunches are provided for all school children regardless of economic and social status, we may look for a vast improvement in the public health. The Special Problem of the City. Located opposite a number of Salt Lake City's public schools, and doubtless those of other towns and cities in the intermountain region also, is one of the greatest menaces to the health of the school child — one of the greatest because it is apparently unrecognized and unheeded. Reference is made to the little wooden candy shop, where for a penny or two a child may get highly colored candies, cheaply and poorly made sodas, gum, candied pop corn, licorice, etc. No matter how carefully a mother prepares her children's basket lunches, no matter what provision tries to make for the sweets necessary to a normal child appetite, no matter how hard she tries to guide wisely the expenditure of her children's chance pennies, there are always enough unsupervised children in a school to make the corner candy stand popular, and the child who has no pennies to invest there is a social outcast. The evils of the candy habit were discussed in a former lesson, so it should be necessary here only to call attention to the dangers of impaired digestion, bad teeth with their attendant ills whose name is legion which may follow patronage of the corner shop in order to arouse mothers to the point of launching a crusade against this menace. Its proximity to the school building is a reflection on the interest of mothers in the welfare of their own children as well as upon the health administration of the city. How the Problem Might Be Attacked. In the first place mothers might see that their children are so well nourished and the sweet tooth so well supplied with wholesome sweets that the temptation to patronize the corner shop will be greatly diminished;  second, she might try to keep in the child's confidence with reference to all money expenditures, and teach him to say "no" stoutly when offered unwholesome sweets by others. Co-operation of the teachers might be solicited through the medium of the parent-teachers' associations in influencing children to withhold patronage from the corner shop. Finally, a movement might be set on foot for establishment of some means whereby a warm nour- 
 icing dish might be supplied to supplement the basket lunch. It would be an interesting development if owners of the candy shops could be prevailed upon to substitute warm wholesome foods for the trash they now handle. In some of the schools may be found well equipped domestic science departments which are used not more than two afternoons a week. To the observer it would seem that there is no valid reason why these departments could not be used every noon time for preparing and serving suitable dishes to supplement the basket lunch. In some instances women living near schools and having some spare time have undertaken to prepare simple lunches which they have sold at nominal prices. In other cases public spirited women have opened their homes to responsible committees of mothers for the purpose of preparing such lunches. The history of the school lunch movement in America shows that it has required some such movement as suggested above to awaken school boards and municipalities to the importance of providing lunches for school children, and there is a strong probability that history will have to repeat itself in this intermountain region. QUESTIONS. 1. Discuss the advantages of school children lunching at home where possible. 2. In your opinion, is it worth while to go to the trouble of serving these lunches daintily when possible? 3. What are the requisites of a good basket lunch? 4. Suggest good sandwich mixtures — preferably original. 5. Discuss the problem of the country woman in providing variety in the basket lunch. 6. Why is it desirable to supplement the basket lunch with a warm dish? 7. How may teachers, if so inclined, contribute to the value of the basket lunch? 8. What is the origin of the school lunch idea? How old is it? 9. State something of its progress. 10. Are there any provisions for school lunches, or for supplementing basket lunches in your locality? 11. Why need of additional of nourishment? are children the so-called "well-to-do" often in 12. Have you the problem of the corner candy shop in your town? 13. What are your best means of combatting it?