[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | February | Issue: 8 | Title: A GOLDEN WEDDING. | Author: Unknown]

A GOLDEN WEDDING.

All of a tenor was their after life;
No day discolor'd with domestic strife;
No jealousy, but mutual truth believed
Secure repose and kindness undeceive'd.

	St. Valentine's Day, 1905 was the fiftieth
anniversary of the marriage of Samuel W.
Richards and his wife Mary Ann Parker
Richards, and the festive occasion was ap-
propriately celebrated at the residence of
his daughter Elizabeth and her husband,
Dr. and Mrs Elias S. Wright.
	There certain y is no more suitable day
for weddings than when the birds mate in
February, and when nesting and love-
making is in the air; and although in 1855,
when the marriage ceremony was solem-
nized, this young couple might not have
had in mind or chosen that particular day,
yet having grown sentimental as they grew
in years, perchance it may have dawned
upon them.
	The party given them was a complete
surprise and proved a perfect success.
	There were nearly one hundred present,
and the affair was simply delightful, with-
out parade or ostentation. Dr. Wright,
the host of the evening, was Master of
Ceremonies and proved himself very effici-
ent in that capacity. The rooms were
handsomely decorated, and the bride and
bridegroom, guests of honor, were seated
in the bay window of the library, where
they received the guests with unfeigned
dignity and graciousness. The numerous
relatives and friends, their cordial and gen-
uine greetings, were a source of true happi-
ness to their recipients.
	Dr. Wright gave the company some stir-
ring instrumental music, and a few young
people, and here and there one of the older
ladies indulged in dancing, sort of inform-
ally. A poem of affectionate remembrance
from a daughter in southern Utah, Mrs.
Annie Spilsbury, was read by Dr. Wright,
and also one from her daughter Josephine,
by the genial host. Miss Geneva Wright,
gave two recitations charmingly, "Ida's
First Bean" and "Grandma at the Mas-
querade." Little Afton Wright recited
"My Firstest Christmas Tree." Mrs. E.
B. Wells read, by request, a poem, "Remi-
niscences (Only a Fragment)," written for 
the Daughters of the Pioneers. Elder Rich-
ards gave some very interesting items of
his lite, that recalled to the older people
scenes of other days and old fr ends and
intimate associates, especially those who had
been prominent in Church history.

[Column 2]
	Delicious refreshments were served to all
guests by daughters and granddaughters
of the veteran bridegroom, who had, not
long since reached his fourscore years. The 
remainder of the evening was pleasantly
spent in social chat and conversation.
Among the distinguished guests was Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, General President of
the Relief Society, who had known Brother
S. W. Richards from his coming to Nanvoo
with his father's family in 1842. His
brother, Elder Henry P. Richards and wife,
and his sister, Maria W. Wilcox were pres-
ent to participate in the honor shown their
brother.
	Of the original Richards family who
came from the Berkshire hills in Massachu-
setts to Nanvoo, these three are
 the only
remaining ones. Their father, Phineas
and his wife Wealthy Dewey Richards,
passed away some years ago, also Apostle
Willard Richards, uncle of Samuel, who
became one of the First Presidency after the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, and
died in 1856. A sister Rhoda Richards
and brother Levi passed away here.
Apostle Franklin D. Richards was of the
same family who came to Nauvoo in 1842.
These have all a numerous posterity in
Zion, except Aunt Rhoda Richards, who
never married, although she lived to be
over ninety, and was a remarkable woman
in many ways. The Richards family is
counted among the famous families in
Church history, along with the Smiths, the 
Youngs, and the Kimballs.


