[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | February | Issue: 8 | Title: Mrs. Gilman on Pure Air | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		MRS. GILMAN ON PURE AIR. 
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman contrib-
utes to the February number of the Spring-
field (Mass.) Good Housekeeping a pungent 
article on "The Home and the Hospital." 
She says in part: 
We despise the Hindu, dying of cholera 
for lack of sewerage. But we die at a rate 
of one to four for lack of ventilation. We 
have the white plague steadily killing us 
off in our most valuable years, costing us 
one quarter of our lives, and billions of dol-
lars annually;—a loss it has been calcu-
lated equal to our entire annual export 
trade. We die patiently of this, as our 
ancestors died of the other, and fail to see 
how swiftly we could end it if we would.
	Consumption like typhoid fever, is a dirt 
disease, but it is from dirt in the lungs.
 *  *  *	We have to learn to purify the air 
of our cities from its body of dirt, as we
[Column 2]
have purified the streets of "surface drain-
age;" and, more directly, we have to learn
not to poison it. 
In this part of the struggle sanitary sci-
ence must penetrate that well nigh invinc-
ible fortress, the home, and teach it not to 
generate disease. Building laws come first; 
proper air space, sunlight, room for physi-
cal decency and health of the inhabitants. 
Here is the hospital, taking in the wreck-
age of the home, and teaching it how much 
cubic space a human being must have; how 
many cubic feet of air an hour, and what 
kind of cleanliness is clean. Pure, white, 
sterilized and safe, with the inmates so 
guarded that even so guarded they do not 
further infect one another—this is the ex-
treme of human effort to allow nature free 
play in the struggle for health. 
Now what cannot the home learn of the 
hospital. It need not be full of sick folks.
If all the homes were what they should be, 
we should need few hospitals. It need not
be as coldly colorless, but beauty in house-
hold decoration can be obtained without 
our masses of dust generating cloth. A 
house could be as lovely as a sea-shell, and
as smooth. It could have thrilling beauty 
of color and of line, pure, satisfying pro-
portion, all manner of tender ornaments
and decoration, and yet not a needless 
thing in it. 
And, above all, it could have pure air, 
as far as it own contribution went. While 
we allow our manufacturers to poison us 
by wholesale with low-lying clouds of 
smoke and deadly gases, the home cannot 
be safe; but an intelligent spirit in onr
homes would rise up against that wholesale 
outrage as the men of old rose against the 
poisoning of the wells. Meanwhile, the 
home could at least see to it that it did not 
do its own poisoning. 
Here sits the family around the evening 
lamp; all dutifully getting the light over 
the left shoulder, for the sake of their eyes. 
The lamp meanwhile is consuming as 
much oxygen as one of the family. The 
furnace is going merrily, and the wind 
howls outside. All is peaceful and serene, 
and no one complains until a boisterous son 
comes in from out of doors.
	“Huh!” he says rudely; "why don't you 
open a window?" 
"The window is open down in the dining 
room," replies his mother, severely; "you 
have just come in from outside, that's 
all!" 
So he sits down in the family air and 
subtracts his portion of the remaining ox-
ygen as peacefully as he can, contributing 
also his portion of used-up air, that grows 
fouler and fouler as it is breathed and re-
breathed by the group, and no one notices
it.
	We need a cultivated taste in air—as we
have in music; a "trained nose," as well 
as a trained ear or eye. And we need a 
machine, an invention, a little scientific 
appliance, a thing like a thermometer—
small, pocketable, which the well bred 
could consult on occasion and say, "Dear 
me! The air has but eleven per cent of 
oxygen, and it's up to 86 with deleterious 
gas!" While we wait for the inventor, let 
the home learn of the hospital, and so es-
cape it.
	A place where people live all the time, 
ought to be quite as sanitary, as “antisepti-
cally clean,” as a place for sick folks. The 
hospital elaborately shuts the door after the 
horse is stolen. 
Who stole it?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


