[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | February | Issue: 8 | Title: TODENFEST. | Author: Unknown]

		TODENFEST.
	Todenfest is a remembrance day of the
dead, and was observed on Sunday, No-
vember 20, 1904, in the customary way in
Saxony. The cemeteries were thronged
from early morning until the shades of even-
ing hid them from view. The New Cem-
etery (as it is called, though quite an old
one,) in Leipsic was most beautifully dec-
orated. On almost every grave floral of-
ferings, many of them large, costly
wreaths. None are admitted here for bu-
rial, only members of families who already
own the ground.
	It covers quite a large area, and is laid
out in divisions, separated by thick stone
walls.
	In one of these divisions is quite a large
plot, wherein are interred a number of
French soldiers who fought under Napo-
leon in 1813, and sixty-five prisoners of
the war of 1870-71, and opposite to it one
of equal size where are German soldiers
who fell in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-
71. A large monument in the center,
enclosed by iron rails and chains, gives
their names and designates their calling.
The plot is enclosed by iron chains passing
through stone posts, and has two entrances,
the posts on either side formed as a cannon,
gilt bands, lettered, twined around them,
and gilt spikes at the mouth, representing
the cannon's fire, while at the base of each
are a number of cannon balls, some large
others small. On these graves are some
flowers, and a number of head plates.
Among the ivy, on one of them, under an
oval raised glass cover, are two hands
clasped together.
	How strangely one feels, to see them
there, down among the ivy! Throngs of
visitors come and go through, looking at
the graves and reading what is on the mon-
uments.
	The French graves are without a flower;
a single wreath, French colors showing
through it, hangs on the center monument,
while at the base of the other monument is
a metal plate placed there by the French
society, which states that “here are en-
tombed a number of French soldiers of the
war of 1813.” How desolate they look,
the heavy iron chain surrounding them, in
its stone posts, and no entrance for visitors!
Alone, though people are all around them,
and the graves on either hand so profusely
decorated that they have the appearance of
a sea of flowers!
	But they are far away from sunny France
—far from her vine-clad hills, buried here
among hostile strangers. Are they forgot-
ten because these multitudes pass them
coldly by, or speak of them as the French?
No! far away, tears have fallen, hearts have
broken, because they who marched so gal-
lantly to war, returned not again, but laid
down in a foreign land to die.
	But these graves, as the others, are well
kept, and covered with thick ivy (which is
trained all over the graves in this land, in-
stead of grass). In one corner a small
monument tells of the officers interred
here.
	Hundreds of people are thronging the
wide, white walks and roaming among the
graves. Here and there is the grave of one
newly dead, and they are elaborate affairs,
about five feet high and two long, covered
with palm leaves, evergreens, flowers,
wreaths and wide ribbon sashes of various
hues, and in them mottoes or inscriptions
in gold letters. How much is expended on

[Column 2]
the German graves! Beyond the white
walks are trees, shrubs and flowers. Now,
as winter is approaching, the nice head-
stones are covered by means of heavy
wooden slides, made to fit them, so that
they are protected from the inclemency of
the weather. Frail monuments are likewise
protected. Nicely dressed people are going
hither and thither some carrying wreaths
and others placing them, while some are
sitting in meditation near the resting places
of their loved ones.
	A favorite inscription in this land is
“Resting in God.” Is it prompted by an
abiding faitn in Him? Is it true that these
sleeping multitudes thus await the sound
of the last trump? But what a disappoint-
ment that time will bring! Nothing be
as we think, perchance not as we desire.
What then? Well it is that an all-wise
Judge will scan our records, and to each
one will give all that justice tempered with
mercy can bestow.
	Not a discordant sound is heard, not a
boisterous tone or peal of laughter, but the
greatest respect everywhere. Everything
seems to be of hallowed memory.
In most of the German homes, they can-
not long keep their dead. They have but
few rooms. and live in all of them. There
are generally two families, one in each
Luppe, so that seventy-five or a hundred
people live in each house. When a death
occurs, they prepare the body for bnrial,
and it is taken to the church in the cemetery,
and often lies for some hours in the dead
house attached to it.
	One does not often see a single hearse,
but on the back is a carriage, having two
back wheels, the hearse serving for the two
front ones, or a carriage with a receptacle
for the little casket, crosswise, put at the
back of the driver. In this way expenses
are reduced at this sad time.
	It is said that the clergy reap a rich har-
vest at these seasons, for it is considered a
disgrace to lay relatives away without a
long sermon being read over them. So if
this is desired, and that he also wear his
fine robes, they must pay a high price. A
German funeral often costs hundreds of
marks when the family can illy afford it.
Todenfest is the winter remembrance
of the dead, while June 24th of each year
corresponds to our Decoration Day.
