[Vol5 | July 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson Germany, while talking peace, is preparing to carry the war over into 1919. Wool prices have been fixed by the Government at the market rates prevailing July 1, 1917. The Pullman car service in the United States has been taken over by the Government. The Third Liberty Loan in the United States was taken by upwards of 17,000,000 subscribers. The Scandinavian countries are suffering greatly from lack of food, with a prospect of worse conditions ahead. Turkey, while losing in Asia, is being given additional territory in European Russia  the Crimea  by German diplomacy. Jews are now being persecuted worse than ever in those Russian districts where Germany is obtaining control. Nearly a million American troops are now in France, and the million mark is expected to be passed by July 1st. Tax valuations in Utah have gone up in 1918. by the action of tax officials, but the actual value of property has gone down. Mesopotamia was the scene of further advances of British troops during May. but the Turks have driven the Russians back. Chemical works at Oakdale. Pa., were blown up in May, with a loss of 200 lives. Highly explosive acid was the cause. In Switzerland, war conditions are so severe that there are few, if any. families who can obtain sufficient food for present needs. Coal prices in the United States are being kept level, so the people can provide for next winter, which may be more severe than the last. 
 Wheat and flour to the amount of 100,000 bushels, held by the Relief Societies in Utah, have been turned over to the Government. New Draft legislation requires all young men in the United States coming to twenty-one years of age on June 1 of each year to register for military service. "Work or fight" is the policy adopted by military officials in Washington for all young men coming within the draft age; the idler in common life is to be eliminated. American shipbuilding has been greatly accelerated during the past three months, and new ships are being turned into active service with marvelous rapidity. Belgian troops to the number of about 400, who have been fighting in Russia, were welcomed to Salt Lake City on May 22, en route to the western battle front in Belgium. The Red Cross request in May, for another $100,000,000, was readily responded to, the Rocky Mountain States being among those who over-subscribed their quota. Ostend, a German submarine base in Belgium, was closed by a heroic British expedition in May, through the sinking at the mouth of the harbor of a vessel loaded with concrete. The equal suffrage amendment to the national Constitution, which was to have been passed on by the United States Senate in May, has been laid over for the present. Equal suffrage propositions have been defeated in Prussia on the ground that they would destroy the present Prussian form of government  another argument in favor of woman suffrage. Food conservation and production is more a necessity for the United States than at any time in its past history. The women are relied to achieve the best results in meeting this need. In Palestine, during May. the British established themselves more firmly on the line north of Jerusalem, and have done much to improve sanitary and traveling conditions in and around the holy city. CURRENT TOPICS. 419 The trial of I. W. W. members in Chicago in May shows conclusively the traitorous nature of that and kindred organizations, with which the Government, as it now recognizes, must deal severely. Aerial fighting has been a vast and important feature of the war during May. More than 1000 German airplanes were shot down in April and May, while the Entente Allies lost less than half that number. The English cruiser Moldavia was torpedoed and sunk in the English channel on May 24. fifty-three American lives being lost. Two of the killed were Utah boys. Willard A. Brown of Hoytsville. and Thaddeus Hodges of Mount Carmel. The Sinn Fein revolt in Ireland, planned for early in June, was checked in May. by the arrest of its leaders. The revolt was largely promoted by Irishmen in America: the leader of the society was born in New York, the son of a Spanish father and Irish mother. German aerial raids on hospitals behind the British lines in France caused the death of more than 100 nurses on May 22. The Entente Allies do not bombard hospitals, but during May inflicted material damage on military establishments and munitions factories in Germany. Eugenics is to have intensive application in Germany according to present government plans there. The idea is to require all able-bodied men to marry before they are twenty years of age: then, in a score of years or so, when their wives cease bearing children, these wives are to be taken care of by the state and the men are to marry young women, while wives who have no children are to become wards of the state and their husbands to marry others. By this means it is expected to increase the German population from five to seven times within half a century, while other nationalities fall behind under present social conditions.