[Vol17 | March 1930 | Sequence: 08c | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for May - Lesson 2: Work and Business (Teachers' Topics)]

TEACHERS' TOPICS (Second Week in May)
Courtesy
Courtesy is the heir-loom of civilization. As far back as the days of knighthood there were prevailing courtesies which have come down to us. The knights raised their visors in acknowledgment of friends even as our gentlemen of today raise their hats in courteous recognition of friends and acquaintances. 2. Courtesy is consideration for others, that is: 1. Careful thoughtfulness of others. 2. The-will to do for others the things you would have others do for you. 3. The will to say to others the pleasant, courteous thing you would have others say to you. 4. Forgetfulness of self. 3. 'What some noted people have thought of courtesy. Confucius, the Chinese sage, considered courtesy a requisite of virtue. Virtue in itself was not enough without politeness. He "saw courtesies as coming from the heart," maintaining that "when they are practiced with all the heart a moral elevation ensues." W. E. Gladstone said to his countrymen, "Let us respect the ancient manners, and recollect that if the true soul of chivalry has died among us, with it all that is good in society has died." Lord Chesterfield in one of the famous "Letters to His Son" said, "Moral virtues are the foundation of society in general, and of friendship in particular; but attentions, manners, and graces both adorn and strengthen them." Samuel Smiles writes, "A man's manner, to a certain extent, indicates his character. It is the external exponent of his inner nature." "Manners are not idle, but the fruit of noble nature and of loyal mind." ?Tennyson. "A beautiful behavior is better than a beautiful form; it gives a higher pleasure than statues and pictures; it is the finest of the fine arts."?Emerson, GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY "Manners are often too much neglected; they are most important to men, no less than to women? Life is too short to get over a bad manner; besides, manners are the shadows of virtues."?Rev. Sidney Smuth. 4, Some well known examples of courtesy. 1. The pleasant, cheery, short visit to the sick room, or the bouquet of flowers. 2. The glass of jelly, the unexpected dinner; the magazine or book to the kept-in. 3. All of the acts of neighborliness in times of trouble or sorrow, where self is in the background. 4. Behavior on the street, sidewalk, or public places. A. The low tone of voice?the quiet laugh. Avoid the "loud laugh that speaks the vacant mind." b. Avoid blocking traffic. C. Keeping in line in purchasing tickets, in getting or sending mail; at voting places. D. Not jostling in a crowd nor elbowing one's way through. (Get through by courteous apologies for necessary haste. ) e. Carrying umbrellas so as not to annoy others. (Scraping the feet in walking is considered boorish.) f. Applauding without stamping or whistling. G. Eating or chewing where others are not participating is discourteous and rude. H. A gentleman offering his seat to a lady, or a younger petson to an older is still considered an act of courteSy, 137 5. Courtesy a mark of culture. 1. Courtesies are the rules of the cultural life and must be followed if we would play the game. 2. The old courtesies or manners were based upon the Christian principles of unselfishness. 3. Money or position is not a prerequisite for gentle manners but rather, "that instinctive yearning of mankind for a system of life regulated by good taste, high intelligence, and sound affections." 4, In this age of worship of the "Golden Calf," almost anything can be bought and sold; but even as the veneers are detected from the real polished woods, so insincere manners lack the genuineness which make the best society. "The best society is not a fellowship of the wealthy nor does it seek to exclude those who are not of exalted birth; it is an association of gentle-folk, in which good form in speech, charm of manner, knowledge of social pleasantness, and instinctive consideration for the feelings of others, are the credentials by which society the world over recognizes its chosen members. 6. The span of Courtesy.. Parents and children. Brothers and sisters. Friends, loved ones, and acquaintances. Employers and Employees. The ward members and the officers. The governed and the governor. The President and his people. The King and his subjects. Even as "mercy becomes the throned monarch better than his crown" so courtesy exalts all who practice it with full purpose of heart. We why DO) SD