LESSON 3 Literature (Third Week in May) SCHUMANN-HEINK The Last of the Titans. The biography of Madam Schumann-Heink, by Mary Lawton, is more than a biography of a single woman?it is, like all good biographies, a biography of her times as well. And what a biography it really is! Across the pages of the book walk some of the greatest figures of the past half century. Not only do we catch glimpses of the great musicians of her time with whom the singer was on intimate terms, but in addition we behold the Kaiser, King Edward of England, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, William Howard Taft, and other statesmen who have had much to do with the shifting policies of the world. These great characters, of course, do not appear exactly as they are. Each is seen through Madam Schumann-Heink's eyes; therefore, we not only see them as she saw them, but through them we see other sides of her that might not have been revealed in any other manner. One of the publicists of the book company has this to say: "Mary Lawton has not only told the story of this great career with captivating charm, but she has given us, as well, rare and amusing anecdotes of other notables of the time. A brilliant panorama! The rich and the poor, the great and the small, kings and queens, singers, composers, violinists and pianists, writers and painters, the butcher, the baker, the candle-stick maker?one and all ?Schumann-Heink runs the gamut! From the fat old grocery woman who demanded a dance in exchange for a piece of cheese? to the Emperor who bestowed a decoration! From the poor ropemaker's little boy who brings her a glass of Jamaica ginger for the stomach ache?to Queen Victoria. From the sick, starving baby in the theatre, that she nursed back to life?to the Empress of Germany! And from cleaning monkey cages in a circus for her dinner?to our own President Roosevelt! All these pass before us, one by one, in this amazing human narrative." Besides the numerous notables mentioned in the book, whose pictures are not given, there are the following whose pictures are given or whose likeness, snapshots only however, are presented to the delighted reader. These snaps are all colored by Madam SchumannHeink's humor, her admiration, her reverence, or love. Like the painted portrait of men and women, they reveal the great men and women truly, but in addition, they reveal the painter as well. We see the soul of the - Madam in each one. I have taken the trouble to page the photograph or the written picture of twenty-five of these famous people. It is by belief that an excellent lesson in musical and political history can be had from going over the most important of these. In most cases where the photograph of the person is given, there will be found on nearby pages Madam GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY Schumann-Heink's word portraits of the individual so deftly caught and recorded by Mary Lawton. (I am using the order used by the book company in a four page leaflet concerning the book, which they issued at the time of its publication ) A Gallery of Notables Lilli: Lehmann, p. 178; Cosima Wagner, p. 261; Enrico Caruso, 298; Hans Von Bulow, 78; Pol Plancon, 82; Lillian Nordica, 215: Marie Wilt, 233; Amelia Materna, 231; Edouard De Reska, 239; Jean De Reska, 241; Paul Schumann, 119; Marcella Sembrich, 292; Hans Richter, 319; Richard Strauss, 323; Johann Brahms, 355; Gustave Mahler, 359; Richard Wagner, 364; Anton Rubenstein, 379; President 'Wilson; President Taft, 284; King Edward VII, 247-48. Empress Frederick; President Roosevelt, 279 and 286; Maurice Grau, 137; and William Jennings Bryan. That is an imposing list. Few people ever have the opportunity of coming in contact with so many great ones, yet this is but a partial list of those mentioned in the book; and the book itself contains, of course, only a partial list of those who have crossed the path of this great woman. In her account of these acquaintanceships, one catches a glimpse of the fine, humble spirit of the Madam. He sees her praising not only her friends but her rivals; he sees her standing respectfully in the presence of the President of the United States in the face of his request that she sit; he sees her admiration, her gratitude. From these glimpses he surely gets some idea of why common soldiers dared call her the greatest contralto of her time and one of the greatest of all time and a 139 prima donna who has sung before kings and presidents, Mother Schumann-Heink. During the class it would be well in those wards where there are portable Victrolas to have played some of Schumann-Heink's records. Where it is impossible to secure the services of a Victrola, local singers, contraltos, preferably, might be induced to sing some of the songs which she especially loved. Some of the simple songs mentioned in the book upon the pages recorded here are: "The Rosary," p. 324; "The Lord Is Mindful Of His Own," p 329; "Silent Night," "La Paloma," p. 327; and "The Lost Chord." Her reaction to American jazz and prohibition can be found on pages 332-339, Her attitude toward the home is given succinctly: "The fact is?say what you will to excuse it, about the high cost of living?women today don't want a home. Now, every man does want and expect a home when he marries. That is what he marries for?a home and children. Let the women look to it that a happy home life exists, for that is what keeps the nation up. And here is something else?and you needn't laugh at me?but cooking is one of the main contributions to a happy home. I'll bet that no man will laugh at this (if any man ever reads it!) You may call me old-fashioned; well, if that is oldfashioned, then thank God. I am!" The following articles which deal with Madam Schumann-Heink may be available to some of the wards: "Schumann-Heink, The Last of The Titans'"?Good Housekeeping, 84: 16-19 (This is the book as it appeared in magazine form.) "Why I Live In California," by W. F. Minor, Sunset, October '28; "Lesson of Madam Schumann-Heink for 140 Rising Stars'?Literary Digest, Jan. 8, 1927. "Marion Tully and Older"?Nation, March 24, 1926; Portrait 'Erd's Farewell"?Literary Digest, March 23, 1929; "He. Roic Figure", O, G. Villard?Nation, 128, p. 401-02, April 3, 1929; "Opera's Favorite" ?- Commonwealth, 10-166, June 12, 1929; and as another view of Mary Lawton's ability as a biographer of the reporter type, "A Lifetime With Mark Twain," by Mary Lawton, a book published by Harcourt, Brace, and Company, New York. Questions and Problems 1. Some one -has said, "Miss Lawton has preserved the homely idiom and the delightful broken English in telling this story of Schumann-Heink." Do you like that or not? Give your reasons? 2. The same person said, "Mary Lawton has given us far more than RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a biography, for she has accomplished a miracle, and has deftly pinned the famous singer to the printed page where SchumannHeink herself seems actually to live and talk for us." What device did Mary Lawton use to accomplish this result? Do you believe the statement to be true? 3. In what ways do Madam Schumann-Heink's remarks about other people reveal her own soul? Does that apply to us also when we speak of others? 4, Why do these characters which throng the pages of the book not appear as they actually are? Can any characters so revealed by any human being appear as they are? Is that fact a limitation of the biographer? 5. In reality, would you call this a biography or an autobiography? Why? LESSON 4 Social Service (Fourth Week in May) Lesson 5?CRIME AND DELINQUENCY In this lesson we propose to deal with crime and delinquency, one of the most important branches of social and public welfare work. The materials presented here do not, of course, do justice to the subject. Class leaders, stake supervisors and others will therefore do well to consult any of the standard works on the subject which might be available in their local libraries. Two of the most reliable books on the subject are the following: Gillin, J. L., Crimminology and Penology (Century, 1926). Burt, Cyril, The Young Deliyquent (Appleton, 1925). 1. The Nature and Extent of Crime. Accurate data regarding the nature and extent of crime are practically impossible to get. In the first place, not all of the crime that is committed is reported to the police. Furthermore, the crimes which are reported are rarely ever tabulated for the public's use.