LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) THE SHorT STorRY IN GREAT BRITAIN, Part II This last period of the English short story can be extended into 1930. It had its beginning in the tales, designed to suit the purposes of the moralists of the 18th and early 19th centuries, but it has now reached a place where there are almost no restrictions of subject matterr, style, or treatment.

This decided change began early in the 19th century and was affected by the romantic movement of Wordsworth, Keats, and others.

It was a time when England was flooded by French ideas (The revolution and Napoleon had given England more to think about than morals and manners). Novelists, who had been inspired by Addison, Swift.

And Defoe, had been writing books of English life, and their experiments were broadening into many fields.

In fact, some forward-looking men and women had begun to write of political and social ideals, and even of education.

But novels and short stories were not yet in their present-day repute.

One respectable magazine advertised that it would consider novels, tales, and romances provided they were not more than three or four pages in length.

Weak little tales of horror, sentiment, and pathos were appearing humbly in a few magazines.

Later, the tales were strongly marked with horror and pathos.

These reached their full maturity in the vivid tales of our American Edgar Allen Poe.

In the 1830's these tales, either of horror or of pathos, were made into decorative gift books, and no lady's table was complete without one.

Then came Sir Walter Scott, bred on the border legends, who wrote three short tales, yet whose books inspired many a writer of romantic short narratives.

Over in America, Poe, Hawthorne, and Irving had brought perfection of style and humor into the short story.

Still, the English writers were slow to grasp the Americans' technique.

Dickens, Thackeray, Gaskell, and others were writing short narratives along with their long novels, but not one of them achieved the short story as we know it today.

Of them all, Dickens rose to the greatest fame.

Much of his success in the field of short narratives was due to his Christmas books.

Even now there are few persons who do not know "Scrooge" and "Tiny Tim"; and the 'Christ mas Carol" and "Cricket on the Hearth" have not been displaced in our Christmas literature.

The Dickens' stories were long and meandering, but they contained his -characterizations—without which there would be no Dickens.

With Charles Reade and Henry Kingsley came a transitional period.

Reade's story, "The Box Tunnel," gives the effect of a single idea. 'However, it was not until 1877, when Robert Louis Stevenson's first story, "A Lodging for the Night" appeared that England awoke to the modern short story.

It was right that Stevenson should be the first to produce it.

He was steeped with French culture, and the short story is French in its art of restraint and grace. 692 Stevenson is best known in the short story field for his impressionistic stories.

Perhaps '""Markheim" is the best liked.

This story does not appear in the text (and his one story is not listed for class use because of the difficulty of the dialect), but it is worth the effort of finding it in another collection.

It is a psychological story—of a man's struggle with himself and his decision.

Aside from grace of style, Stevenson will live because he has made his characters act and made them English.

And his subject matter is decidedly Anglo-Saxon.

If Stevenson made the short story beautiful, it remained for Kipling to carry it into new fields.

Of all the English writers during the latter part of the 19th and the forepart of the 20th centuries, Kipling is the most vigorous, versatile, and highly gifted.

His stories carry a glamor no other English writer has been able to obtain.

This glamor is due to many things; racial contrasts, foreign settings, descriptions that made the reader smell and.

Feel the Orient, and a sense of England's might, and above all to the fact that everything he wrote was interesting.

Kipling was often journalistic, an accusation that covers poor taste, sensationalism, and even vulgarity, some critics claim, but he has written a few of the most exquisite stories in the English language.

The "Brushwood Boy" and "They" are two of his best.

Neither he nor any other contemporary English writer is found in the text, but he must not be neglected.

The two stories mentioned, 'Without Benefit of Clergy," "The Man Who Would Be King," "The Return' of Imray," "The Man Who Was," and a hundred others are worth reading.

Helped by Kipling, England took the short story to herself, and her RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE writers today rival America's. There are but few English novelists who do not write short stories.

John Galsworthy, Conrad, Hardy, Hewlett, Aldous Huxley, Moore, Rebecca West, Katherine Mansfield, Macefield, James Joyce and J. M. Barrie are only a few whose names are familiar to American readers.

Brief Summary of the Short Story in Great Britain 1. Short story first came into England with the Roman church. 2. France next influenced the story by means of her fables, fairy tales, and miracle stories. 3. Chaucer then took the medieval tales and made them alive with characters of contemporary England. 4, After a long period Italy's influence was next felt. 5. Engiland's talents and tastes then began to improve and she learned to value home writers—Addison, 'Steele, Defoe, etcetera. 6. Romantic movement, with.

Its sensational and melodramatic tales came next; and was followed by the modern short story.

Suggested Stories The 'White Trout by Samuel Lover.* Dickens' The Old Man's Tale of the Queer Client.

Wilkie Collins' A Terribly Strange Bed.

Thomas Hardy's Squire Petrick's Lady.

Oscar Wilde's The Selfish Giant.* George Moore's Julia Cahill's Curse.

Arthur Morrison's That Brute Simmons.* *The starred stories are all brief and delightful reading.

GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Brief Biographical Sketches Samuel Lover is the Irishman of romantic legend.

He had a joyousness of spirit that sorrows, illness, and financial reverses could not quench.

In him were housed many talents.

At various times he was a painter, a caricaturist, a composer of songs, a singer, a dramatist, and a writer of fairy tales and poems.

It was his stock-broker father's plans to make Samuel into a business man, but at seventeen the boy set himself up as an artist.

One of his miniatures made him famous and he moved from!

Dublin, where he was born in 1797, to London, It was here that he wrote his delightful "Irish Legends and Tales," from which "The White Trout" is taken.

His songs, "Rory O'Moore," "Widow Machree," "The Girl I Left Behind Me," and a great many others are still loved and sung.

In 1842 he wrote his best novel, "Handy Andy." Then his eyesight began to fail him and for very necessary reasons he took himself to America, where supposedly every one was wealthy.

At any rate America lost many a dollar when he departed, but she was the richer for the memories of his "Irish Evenings." It was next England's turn to listen to "American Evenings," and there was no longer any worry in the Lover family about bank accounts.

His health now gradually failed him; he died on the Isle of Jersey in 1868. Charles Dickens When Charles Dickens came to America, people stood in line for hours to get tickets for his entertainments.

He wrote home that each ticket-buyer was furnished with a little bag of bread and meat, two blankets, and a bottle of whiskey, and thus outfitted they would 693 sleep on the pavement the whole night before his performances.

Re- | gardless of the truth of this description, no president or hero, unless it were Lindbergh, has ever received quite the ovation Dickens did on his visits to America.

And he came the second time after he had written many caustic criticisms of us.

Today his name is more of a household word than any other writer, living or dead.

To be very brief with him, he was born at Landport in Portsea on the southern coast of England, February 7, 1812, and he died at his home, Gadshill Place, June 9, 1870. It is said of him that he overcame two of a writer's greatest obstacles— poverty and lack of an education.

In appearance, he was small with clear, blue, intelligent eyes and quick movements.

As the years passed on and he wrote.

An almost impossible number of novels and stories, he grew more strained and nervous.

Perhaps as a compensation for the poverty of his earlier years, he was inclined to be foppish in his dress.

At nineteen he became a reporter.

A few years later he dropped a little story into a "dark letter box in a dark office up a dark court in Fleet Street." Before he died, he was the most famous author in the world, and in addition to his many novels, stories, and Christmas books, he had managed a company of actors and given countless numbers of personal appearances, where he read his stories and impersonated his characters.

It is said of him that he did a great deal to help the condition of the poor in England, to establish prison reform, and to.

Forward education; yet he discharged a servant girl because he objected to her language, which she, poor thing, could not help.

He was tender, and kind, 694 and sympathetic, and gave liberally to his family and friends and to any one in want; yet he was vain and conceited and he estranged his father and mother and many of his friends by his caricatures of them, and he made his lovely and intelligent wife's life miserable for a good many years.

William Wilkie Collins Tales of mystery and horror have always been popular, and in late years the detective story and novel have grown even more so.

"The Crime Club," made up of members who regularly subscribe for such books, is one of the modern developments of this kind of literature, The fact that many people, daily employed in strenuous mental work, find the completest relaxation in mystery stories is one of the reasons for their popularity.

A second reason is another variation of the "escape mechanism." People read these stories and for a time forget their own troubles.

William 'Wilkie Collins (1882- 1899) is a skillful writer of mystery tales, one of which, "A Terribly Strange Bed," appears in the text.

He believed that plot was the most important part of the story, and it was his aim to make his readers follow his stories with breathless absorption.

No one can read "A Terribly Strange Bed" and say that Collins failed.

When Wilkie Collins was young, he was surrounded with the atmosphere of art, but his inclination was for writing.

At first he wrote only for his amusement, being in turn a business man and a lawyer.

He finally found that he could be more successful in writing.

Some of his best collections are ''Moonstones," "A Woman in White," and "After Dark." RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Oscar Wilde Oscar Wilde was a genius and an artist, but he was a man of too much artifice.

He was born in 1854 at Dublin of distinguished parents.

It was always his misfortune that he valued art above life.

He was indifferent to almost everything save sensuous beauty; cared nothing for social questions of the day, though his imprisonment in an English jail was reflected in his most significant poem "Reading Gaol." Yet he wrote beautiful poetry, brilliant dramas, and charming fantasies, and as a Stylist he has not been excelled.

Passion and affectation made Oscar Wilde weak in character, However, he could produce beauty, and because of this beauty he is assured a place among the immortals.

For years he has been a favorite subject for biographers; perhaps the truth has not yet been learned about him.

Two of his plays that have been produced almost every place that English is spoken are the "Importance of Being Earnest" and "Lady Windemere's Fan." "The Selfish Giant" is found in his "The Happy Prince and Other Tales." George Moore George Moore was born in Ireland, County Mayo, in 1852, of a distinguished statesman's family.

He is aS many-sided a person as can be expected even of the great celebrity he is.

In him there is the pagan, the Protestant, the artist, the realist, the.

Stylist, the patriot, the antiIrishman, and the dramatist.

And he started life a Catholic, When he was quite young he wrote poetry—his "Poems of Passion" being his best known—but he lost the gift as he grew older.

Painting he loved better than anything in life, and had the sense, after giving it a fair trial, to know that he GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY could not win fame by following it.

However, his essays on painting are among the best of his works.

It was hard for him to separate himself from his writing—essays, novels, poems, dramas, or stories.

Some part of him is always in them in a vivid way.

At the time of the Boer War London disgusted him and he came back to Dublin for a ten year's stay.

One of his friends during this period said that the reason Moore grew so dissatisfied with Ireland was that, brilliant actor that he was, he could find no audience.

All of his Irish intimates were equally gifted in acting, and Moore could not be happy in the background.

After ten years he disowned Ireland and her seeming futility.

And Ireland hated him for his "Parnell's Island." Not even his '"Untilled Field," a collection of beautiful Irish folk tales, could heal the hurt that Moore had made.

A critic of Moore said that he was a man who by personal taste liked to see his stories end happily, but would not allow them to do so for the sake of his art.

Moore had great insight into people, especially into 695 women.

Often he wrote of the lowly.

Where Dickens would have said of these people: "How amusing," Moore's reaction was: "How alike everywhere is the human heart." Questions Which of the stories that you have read do you think best achieves the single impression?

Why?

What are the essentially British characteristics that you find in these stories?

Could any of the stories have been written with another country for a background?

Discuss.

In which story or stories is plot emphasized, in which character, and in which setting?

How does George Moore show his feeling toward the Catholic church in "Julia Cahill's Curse?" Do you think you could recognize other stories by these same authors?

Discuss why?

Why would Morrison's "That Brute Simmons" make a capital oneact play?

How has Morrison achieved humor in this story? (Every one will enjoy Simmons. )