LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) Personality Study: How to Change Persons Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pages 143- Our previous lessons for the most part have dealt with the relatively simple and frequent methods which we employ to temporarily influence human conduct.

We wish to capture someone's attention.

How is it best accomplished?

We wish to persuade a person to do this or that.

What means are appropriate to employ?

Our desire is to make our speech or writing more effective.

How can psychology be of service here so that the ideas we express will stick long enough to accomplish the desired end?

Such have been 696 the problems of our first four lessons and if we have been taking the work seriously enough, we are fairly well prepared to consider the next five lessons.

We are now to attempt to understand the possibilities of influencing human behavior in more fundamental ways; also something of the more difficult and probably more interesting techniques that must be used in making these rather permanent changes in ourselves and others, Many people have the notion that our personalities are fixed for good or ill at birth or before.

They say we are as helpless in making honest-to-goodness changes in our personal traits and characteristics as we would be in changing the color of our eyes.

We have all heard them repeat with almost convincing effect such cliches as these: "She's redheaded so you know it is her nature to be hot-tempered;" "He's a chipfrom the old block and can't help but be that way;" "Human nature never changes," etc. Even the sayings about leopards not being able to change their spots and of sows returning immediately to wallow in the mire are given as if they applied with equal force to human beings.

We have already had emphasized quite a different point of view in our previous lessons.

We know that most competent psychologists would have us regard our personalities as not necessarily static or fixed, but as being still in the making.

They would have us know that the saying that "human nature never changes" is at most only partly true.

Probably no one is capable of settling for us the problem of the relative importance of heredity and environment or of the exact proportion of our behavior traits that really are inborn on the one hand or acquired on the other.

As Overstreet says, RELIEF; SOCETY MAGAZINE "It is not always easy to say precisely where the human nature that is unchangeable leaves off and the human nature that is changeable begins." However, we can be sure that those parts of our behavior that are tentative, conscious, plastic and changing in character are in reality as much human nature as those parts that are characterized as being fixed, automatic, unconscious, unchanging, etc. In short, some parts of human nature are relatively static and rigid, so to speak, while other parts are subject to change and development.

That human beings are not on the same plane as the great mass of the animal kingdom when it comes to considering the spossibilities for individual change and development is well stated in the following short quotation from Bagley's Educative Process, pages 30-31: "The lower animals are born with nerve connections already fixed and, except in the higher vertebrates, comparatively permanent and stable.

In the nervous system of man, the entire cerebrum is practically unorganized at birth.

It is a mass of latent possibilities, and whatsoever connections are made later are due almost entirely to the forces of the environment and not to the forces of heredity." The author of our text rightly insists that our insight into the nature and possibilities of human personality will be improved by considering it as a large number of more or less unified habit-systems rather than as an unanalyzable whole.

As we said in Lesson Two, personality is not a mysterious entity—something wholly apart from our everyday habits, attitudes and ideals, It is made up of "all those traits and chracteristics of (one's) self that make or mar his efficiency in dealing with other individuals." In this GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY same lesson Bagby was quoted as © saying that the traits of personality are "essentially... Products of the training and the experience through which the individual has passed." From all of this it follows that personalities can be changed and that an important entering wedge for the improvement of a personality is to diagnose some of the habit deficiencies and then proceed with the "comparatively simple step-bystep process of redirecting and remoulding specific systems of habits." In understanding how to go about the job of building habits we are helped by a consideration of methods employed in training animals.

In the text and also in the supplementary reference given below, will be found interesting accounts of how certain conditioned responses (or habits) are developed in the case of dogs.

These experiments are important because they furnish us a simple pattern of the way all habit formation takes place.

They help us to see the futility of admonition and exhortation as means of initiating the kind of habits we are interested in developing.

If they are thoughtfully considered we can even understand how it is that the techniques we use at times may result in establishing habits absolutely opposed to the ones we think we are developing.

For example we may unwittingly make misbehavior seem interesting to the child by the fact that it actually turns out to be exciting or profitable to him.

In this connection read with especial care pages 162 and 163 of our text.

It is perhaps hard for us to believe that in our efforts to help young people we use a technique which associates virtue with "dullness, suppression, scolding (and) being bad * * * with gaiety, approval, excitement, mastery." 697 Speaking of rewards and punishments we may summarize in part, in this paragraph a previous discussion of this subject by the writer: (1) Character development like other growth takes place from within and does not result from merely having children go through the outward motions of right conduct. (2) Corporal and other forms of severe punishment nearly always complicate the process of reforming the wrong-doer.

At best they constitute only a beginning and should be followed by evidences of "love unfeigned." (See D. & C. 121:41-44.) (3) Rewards and punishments should be just and appropriate.

They should seem to follow the acts as their natural and invariable consequences.

Therefore they should not be so artificial or capricious as not to be operative in any good social group. (4) Learners should not be denied the advantage of making some mistakes, especially such as are not too serious or incompatible with safety.

Some guidance in the early stages of each learning process may be quite helpful, but who has not seen numerous examples of pitiful personalities with whom parental or teacher-guidance has been carried too far?

No discussion of the topic of this lesson would seem complete to the writer without a quotation of the classic rules given by William James for the formation of habits.

They are as follows: (1) "In the acquisition of a new habit, or the leaving off of an old one, we must take care to launch ourselves with as strong and decided an initiative as possible. (2) Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. (3) Seize the very first possible opportunity to act on every resolution you make, and on every emotional prompting you may experience in 698 the direction of the habits you aspire to gain. (4) Keep the faculty of effort alive in you by a little gratuitous exercise every day." Supplementary Reference Poulson—"Human Nature," pages 7- 24, 31-32, 74-82. (This reference is to the Teacher Training text used throughout the Church durng 1927-28. Since nearly 10,000 copies of this little book were distributed at that time we are assuming that there aré enough of them still available to justify the reference to it in this connection although it is now out of print.

Future references to supplementary material such as this will be omitted in forthcoming lessons if the editor of the Magazine receives information at once that the little book is not available in most of the wards and that the material referred to in it is not actually helpful.

Those wards not being able to locate this supplementary reference can get along very well with the material furnished by Overstreet and in the Magazine.) A Few of the Possible Problems for Discussion 1, Distinguish between social heredity and physical heredity.

Why RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE is social heredity so very important in human development? 2. Discuss rather fully the statement that "human nature never changes." 3. Why is it so important for us not to develop too many fixed ideas?

How is eternal life and progress related to our open-mindedness and teachability here and now?

When do people become old fogies? 4. Give the best definition of personality that you can.

Show how habit-systems are related to one's personality. 5. Discuss each of the rules of habit formation quoted from James. 6. Discuss the propositions given above on rewards and punishments. 7. Relate the circumstances of the profound changing of a personality given in the text, pages 149-152. Add an account of a similar case. 8. In what ways may habits be our servants and set us free so to speak?

How may they enslave us or hinder our progress?

Discuss fully.