Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 23—"But There Is a Resurrection, Therefore the Grave Hath No Victory, and the Sting of Death Is Swallowed Up in Christ' (Mosiah 16:8). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 6, 1954 Objective: To give assurance of life after death. E shall live again! 'This is the glorious promise of the resurrection! Down through the ages, many great and noble souls have echoed the words of Job, "I know that my Redeemer liveth" (Job 19:25). History also affirms the truth of the resurrection. To Latter-day Saints the resurrection is not a fantastic story, not a dim hope, but a reality. It is a logical sequence to mortality. We accept it as an important part of the plan of salvation. Latter-day Saints have evidence of the resurtection which is not known to the world generally. In answer to the sincere prayer of Joseph Smith, the Father, and the risen Redeemer appeared to him in person. Later, Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon beheld the Savior and heard his voice. This is their solemn declaration: And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God (D. & C. 76:22-24). Latter-day Saints accept birth and death as necessary steps to the advancement of mankind. We came Page 58 to this earth to prove ourselves in mortality. From here we will go on to another stage of development to continue eternally. It has been said, "To live is to go on a journey. To die is but to come back home." A perfect faith in the resurrection tempers the parting with loved ones. It brings comfort and tranquility to the hearts of the bereaved, for they are assured that the separation is for a relatively short period, and is but preliminary to a happier state. We might say that death itself gives credence to the resurrection for were there no resurrection, an immense waste of time and struggle and achievement would result. Such waste is not consistent with the works of God. Surely the plan of the Creator which brings planets into being, and which creates the human body, would not permit countless millions of people to spend a few years in this troubled life, if it were not to be followed by something of great consequence. ""T know that my Redeemer liveth." He who can thus testify of the living Redeemer," said President David O. McKay, "has his soul anchored in eternal truth" (Deseret News, "Church Section," April 16, 1952).