winter is for mothers. The first snowfall should touch the spring of anticipation in a mother's heart as it does in a child's. Romps in the snow with the children, snowball fights, or making snowmen are delightful experiences. A young mother once said to me, "All I do all winter is put on little overshoes and snowsuits and take them off again." I thought, what a lovely opportunity to kiss a rosy face, as it looks up for help with strings and buttons. What better time to teach orderliness and care of clothes? Days too wet or cold for outside play are jewels of love set in memory by such simple things as making cookies together, or painting a page in a color book, or letting imaginations run wild in make-believe. Summer widens the world for children, trails beckon, friends call, and many influences and interests exclude mother a little, but winter is mother's own time. Time to correct a word of slang picked up outside the home, time to teach righteousness, and honesty and generosity. A time when mother is the center of the small child's interests, winter is a golden opportunity for weaving memories. Stories by the fire, stories from scripture, fine music, and poetry will long be remembered. Long evenings are for confidences from little lips, while popping corn or pulling candy. A warm, bright home in a world of cold, gray skies is the loom upon which mothers may weave the perfect pattern of the gospel. Not by preaching, but by living. VIDA FOX CLAWSON Ibe Pride of — Your Library! Mires 11954 Conducted | | Zor, Rivet, Soctety magazines when band Tours acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) HAWAII $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume ALASKA If ee ip eS ess ee to you, the following postage rates will apply. HISTORIC TRAIN Soe Loke: City, Utah Rate;? Up to 150 miles 2 eee cenceeeene 25 The Historic Train includes: | Uy. Tes <-oocass-77 uF shrines of the Church, the "600 to 1000 miles 2c cee eeeceeeeeeen 42 Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, | | 1490 to 1800 miles eo and many large eastern cities Over 1800 miles - 69 will b e visite d. | ger them at our conveniently located uptown For complete details write or phone: D j N P, 966 East South Temple 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utch = __ Salt Lake City, Utah T Telephone 4-2017 Phone 4-258] Page 7] So many have asked for it we're offering a SPECIAL CLASS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN °. Class You can enroll right now.. Starts Monday evening, January 4. It won't be long before you'll be typing your genealogy and Church work, as well as your own personal work. Get together a group of Relief Society friends and all enroll in the same class. You'll enjoy learning together. Classes can be arranged on Monday and Thursday evenings or Saturdays before noon whichever you prefer. You are cordially invited to visit any class. Write or call L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch of Brigham Young University 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah Page "2 Ask about our special rate today. Swift SS. Ketch Thelma ]. Lund There in the alpine meadow The purple winter glow Reaches tall pine shadows Along the crusted snow. Shale ice ledges the stream banks, Deep water glitters clear, Where a coyote bends with caution To drink at the fringes of fear.. Wind whines down from the gullies, Its blade edged sharp with avowal; As darkness weaves, shadows together And the coyote haunches to howl. Coloe Chace wit ace Elsie McKinnon Strachan Dawn is in the orchestra pit Rendering the prelude of day In color notes across the sky; While mists, night-curtain gray, Slowly rise; and the mind detects Music beyond word— Still, no sound is heard. The popularity of an Electric Clothes Dryer is skyrocketing! Be Thrifty -Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY W. Cleon and Max 1 Skousen THE FIRST 2,000 YEARS W. Cleon Skousen iT. Brother Skousen's latest book discusses many of the perplexing problems and factual material found in the Old Testament. With unusual clarity, this book offers the widest and | fullest interpretations of Hebrew scripture, which, surprisingly enough, parallel many of the controversial problems confronting us today. $3.25 2. PROPHECY AND MODERN TIMES W. Cleon Skousen Of special interest in this book are prophecies concerning the final war before the millennium and the second coming of Christ. $1.75 3. HOW TO PRAY AND STAY AWAKE Max Skousen In solving his own problems of prayer, Elder Skousen has given answers that will benefit all who read this exciting book. $1.75 4. THE CHALLENGE OF OUR TIMES W. Cleon Skousen Are we meeting the challenge of spiritual commandments? This and other thought-provoking questions are discussed with understanding. $2.00 44 East South Temple ~ Salt Lake City. Utah. A wT Ow. & DESERET BOOK CO. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send books circled: T 2 <) 4 ( ) check ( ) money order for $ 2..0.0022222200ooc lc cccecceeeceeeeeeeceeeceecceneececece el. Street or R. F. D. 22 eeeeeee eee eee nnennnnnnnnne eee ceceeeeeeenneceeenneeeesereceeeeee Cilppen--- ---nncnannanea-------nansanccnaennenronareneas Zone State Residents of Utah add 2 percent sales tax. U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH NOV 54 Ty ae Y Mas Ll, 710, yt? Y/ "77 "4, Ml July j; 7, 4 ME: LAG,: wy "> eo 4 ' hfe. 4° ey. Ee Ly py 1 a y oe VE Bs 7 LGD 5 oe fe y i/ Gs $8 he Z 4 4 4 4 7 Z yo. Z 5; La!) Y bn, i / y Z Z "ry, j; Ny, y Yi, Z G 3 A 2 4, Z a 4 y Z 4 4 Wty, yyypyyyppyprririiere Z % Uys ny y, (/ 4 q W Wha WY Waa "a, eo, te NOS XS S s Los BEN VA. A Insurance Company Ys Vf spot David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City