[Vol1 | August 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Lesson | Title: Health and Hygiene Lesson I....]

HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson I.
Care of the Ear. (Forty Minutes.) The ear is a delicate organ easily affected by weakness or and it is particularly sensitive in childhood. disease, It consists of three parts, the external or fleshy part, the middle ear or drum and the internal ear.
The deafness which is often a sequel of diseases affecting healthy and beautiful children is a dreadful handicap.
When such diseases and fevers come early in life the little patients forget the speech they have earlier learned and thus become deaf-mutes.
Deafness sometimes follows measles or smallpox, but more frequently it follows scarlet fever and meningitis.
There are also other diseases which cause deafness, such as ulceration, thickening, or perforation of the tympanum (eardrum).
Deafness may be caused by obstruction of the lining membrane of the Eustachian tube, or from throat diseases which affect the Eustachian tube.
Earache is frequently caused by a cold which gives rise to some of the affections mentioned or it may be from a neuralgic pain.
Partial deafness or a ringing in the ears may be caused by an accumulation of wax which becomes hardened, causing pressure on the tympanum.
A severe slap on the ear has been known to rupture the tympanum and cause deafness.
Ear troubles may be avoided by keeping the child in the best possible condition of health.
It is now a recognized fact that by exercising care many children grow to maturity without having the so-called children's diseases.
In case of pain in the ear hot fermentation or hot dry applications give relief.
Sometimes the neuralgic pain that comes from teething may be relieved by putting in the ear a piece of cotton dipped in warm consecrated oil.
To remove hardened wax or foreign substances from the ear take the syringe and very gently indeed give douches of warm water to which has been added soda in the proportion of a level teaspoonful to a pint.
The ear should be held downward to help the escape of the foreign matter.
The greatest care should be exercised or permanent injury may be done the patient.
When this treatment does not succeed, then call  a physician a specialist if possible.  8 .
Nose and Throat.
Tlie nose is not only the organ of smell, but it also bears a most important part in the act of breathing.
By passing through the nose the air is both warmed and strained before entering the lungs.
Children should naturally inhale the air through the nose, but sometimes obstructive growths occur and the child becomes a mouth breather.
The habit of breathing through the mouth is detrimental to the looks; and more important still, it is detrimental to health, as many diseases are contracted in that way.
The throat also bears an important part in breathing, and should be kept free from disease.
The obstruction to nose breathing most frequently met with in childhood, and one that is very common is  Adenoids This disease, which is an enlargement of small glands situated at the opening of the nasal passage with the throat, gives rise to many and sometimes severe troubles.
The condition is recognized by the difficulty the patient manifests in breathing, particularly at night.
The patient sleeps with mouth open and the breathing is noisy.
He is restless and sleep is disturbed.
The disease is usually attended by enlarged tonsils, which is also a frequent cause of earache.
The sufferers make slow progress in school.
Their countenances are affected, and in case of tonsilitis or diphtheria there is an added danger from this trouble.
Rheumatism frequently accompanies these conditions, caused by the absorption of poisons which are generated in the system on account of imperfect aeration of the blood.
The respiratory passages being closed, it is difficult to get sufficient air into the lung*.
As a preventive measure children should be taught to breathe properly and they should be guarded against taking cold.
Also they should be kept outdoors as much as possible, night and day.
Indoor children are more likely to have these diseases because they are more susceptible to colds and catarrhal conditions.
The removal of tonsils and adenoids by surgical operation usually creates a marked improvement in health.
Care of the Teeth.
The care of the teeth from first dentition is of the utmost importance.
Sound and even teeth add much to the expression of the face and to the health of the individual.
Their . 9 chief purpose is for the mastication of food. "Well masticated food, being finely separated and mixed with saliva, is much more easily digested than is possible with the mastication produced by poor teeth.
Good teeth also assist in clear articulation when speaking.
Dental decay is caused largely by acid fermentation in the stomach, and also by particles of food allowed to remain between the teeth.
The teeth should be brushed two or three times daily with soft brush and suitable dentifrice.
Teeth are injured by using them for cracking nuts, biting hard materials, or by great contrasts in temperature.
Very hot or very cold food or drink is liable to crack the enamel and cause decay.
Tartar on the teeth is also very destructive.
A competent dentist should be consulted at least twice a year.
He will remove tartar and fill cavities and greatly prolong the usefulness of the teeth.
Crooked teeth should be straightened in childhood or early youth by a capable practitioner.
Teeth are sometimes made crooked and malformation of the gums occurs by the infantile habit of sucking the thumb or finger.
The habit should be broken without delay.
It is pitiful to see mouths disfigured by bad habits when they might be symmetrical and pleasing.
Listeners can often add life and interest to the lesson as given by the class leaders by adding their own ideas and suggestion to the discussion which should follow each of these health topics.
August HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson II.
Note  The Health Committee, having been fortunately put into possession of a group of leaflets from the Salt Lake City Board of Health, have changed the August Outlines, giving the following topics in place of those found in the guide, believing them to be best for all parties.  Suggestion It is respectfully suggested and earnestly urged that each Relief Society Ward President appoint a custodian to take charge of the literature sent out by our General Board, who is a conscientious and a capable woman, and that this literature be kept where it may readily be used for reference.
If the ward has no library started, this will form a
10 . nucleus for one.
If there is a library already, these circulars will prove a valuable addition.
Note We are well aware that despite all precautions, children become ill, and people die.
But also we know how well it can be proved that the percentage of deaths has been so greatly decreased by the more intelligent and improved methods in caring for human life.
How to Take Care of Babies During Hot Weather.
Note Find answers in leaflets with above heading.
What is the best food for babies?
If baby cries should you feed it?
What about the baby's sleep?
Its clothing?
Its bath?
Should babies be tossed about or fondled too much?
How may baby sickness be measurably prevented?
Give the suggestions as to fresh air, and the effect of much heat.
What about keeping the house cool and clean?
The arrangement of doors and windows?
What about baby sleeping out of doors during hot weather?
How protect him?
Name some things which should never remain in baby's room.
Food and Water.
What is a mother's first duty?
We have already told what is the best food for a baby, but repetition will impress this upon us.
Give one of the chief causes of sickness in babies.
What about diarrhoea?
Nurse Regularly.
Give suggestions as to nursing the baby.
What about weaning the baby?
Bottle Children.
What is the best food for children who have not mother's milk.
What is your duty in regard to your dairyman and his dairy?
What about the care of the milk?
How may the milk become contaminated?
.
11 Nursing Bottles and Nipples.
Is it needful to have more than one bottle and nipple?
Give directions for caring for them.
Sleep.
What about habits of sleep in babies?
Letting the Baby Alone. "What about holding a baby a great deal?
Do children like to play by themselves when not trained to it?
Never relax watchful care, but give them as much freedom as possible.
Clothing.
Give directions for clothing the baby in summer Bathing.
Should babies be bathed frequently?
How often?
Why do some children not like their bath?
What should be the temperature of the bath?
Give some of the rules suggested for caring for sick children.
Give some of the DON'TS in regard to feeding. (See cover of leaflet.) The Care of Milk in the Home.
Read carefully all the directions given in the pamphlet with the above title, and see that each Relief Society member gets a thorough understanding of the matter contained in leaflet with above heading.
If there is time, follow with general discussion and helpful experience from members.  Note Read and make use of A Warning to Mothers.
August HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson in.  The Fly, A Disease Carrier Forty Minutes.
Typhoid FeverIts Prevention.  Note Please be sure to read carefully the leaflets accompanying the Bulletin and get the full meaning of the illustrated page on the fly.
Also suggest that each member of the Relief Society shall commit to memory and repeat to herself each day the four Dont's on the illustrated page.
12 .
The Fly.
What can you say of the fly in regard to filth?
How many stages of development of the fly are there?
Please name them.
Where are the eggs deposited?
Describe the stages of growth and tell how long it takes for the fly to 'become fully developed.
How many eggs will one fly lay?
Where are the greatest number of flies hatched?
Is there any way of eliminating flies?
How?
Name some of the diseases which are carried by flies.
How can footstuffs exposed for sale be protected?
What can you, as an individual, do toward exterminating flies?
May a neighborhood be kept free from flies?
How?
How may "bottle babies" be protected from the sickness that is carried by flies?
Would you consider the cost in labor, cleanliness and materials too much if you could get rid of flies?
Exterminating the Flies.
Please name all the methods that can be suggested for exterminating the fly pest in its breeding places.
How may mature flies be destroyed?
Which is the most efficient way of all for destroying flies?
How may they be killed after being hatched?
IMay we not all be justified in assuming that the campaign against the fly will ere long render our cities and our country places entirely free from this dangerous pest?
Typhoid Fever, What is typhoid fever?
How is the typhoid baccillus, or germ, given off?
How is the fever caused?
How does the disease enter the system?
How may typhoid be transmitted or passed from one person to another?
Water Supply.
When there is no water system to carry the supply from an elevated source, what may happen to the water?
Where there is no sewer system to carry off the waste from homes, tell how the outbuildings become the source of danger.
What is the most usual way of carrying typhoid fever?
Name three ways in which milk may become infested.
.
13 Tell three ways in which fresh vegetables may become infected.
Can you give any reason for outbreaks or epidemics of typhoid?
Are there any ways of checking or preventing this dreadful disease?
Where there is no sewer system what should every home have?
Answer: A sanitary privy.
Tell all you can about the following points:  First Keeping milk supply  Second Keeping water supply.  Third The sanitary privy.
Tell all you can about the sanitary care of a typhoid patient and what should always be done with excreta from the sick room.
Also tell what should be done with the washable clothing, the bed linen, and the eating utensils.
How dispose of valueless articles from sick room?
How to take care of slops from the sickroom when there is a sewer?
When there is not a sewer?
How should the nurse take care of her hands?
What is used for different per cent solutions?
What can be said of carbolic acid as a disinfectant?
Tell something important to remember about persons apparently recovered from the disease.  Note.
In general discussions exchange views as to sanitary conditions of your own homes and your own town.
It would be interesting and profitable for the sisters to read the inspired sanitary laws taught by Moses to his people as found in Exodus and Leviticus in connection with these modern lessons and suggestions on hygiene.
AugustWORK AND BUSINESS Lesson I. "Sisters, do not find fault, especially with the Priesthood of God.
Be patient, be charitable, and remember, 'a house  divided against itself cannot stand.' " Zina D.
H.
Young.
Ten minutes talk on Current Events.
14 .