Alice Robinson Richards A Beautiful Life By Mary C. Kimball Children reveal quite early some of the dominant traits that shape their lives and mold their destiny. Alice Robinson Richards, from childhood, was thoughtful, considerate, unselfish, devoted, a quick and happy worker, a burden bearer, a joy diffuser, a mother in heart and in reality. When a little girl while she did not have dolls to mother as girls of today do, she was never so happy as when a little child was in her arms, so she cared for her mother's babies with maternal love and tenderness., Alice Robinson was born May 14, 1864, in Farmington, Davis county, Utah. Never did a mother have a more devoted daughter than was she. She helped with the children, nursed her mother when she was ill, and quite early learned to sew, cook, do laundry work, scrub, knit, churn, and care for babies. Soon all these resources were requisitioned, for when she was scarcely eleven years old, her mother was called Home, leaving a seven-months-old baby for her to mother, and a number of other children to care for. Alice says she can not remember having done anything that caused her mother pain. Boys courted her when she was eleven years old and she knitted while they were visiting her, and her knitting needles also flew while she was going to choir practice or to the store for supplies. A new inspiration came when George F. Richards, a promising young man of the community and a good Latter-day Saint became interested in her and she knew from the first that he was the man she desired for a husband. The attachment between the two quickly ripened into love, and on March 9, 1882, these two worthy young people were married for time and all eternity the union proving a most happy and successful one. Having the same ideals and tastes and desires, they have ever been a comfort to each other and have enjoyed doing their work together. When they were first married, her husband was employed by the Utah Central Railway Company in Salt Lake City, so they made their home in the western part of the city, but duty soon called Sister Richards back to Farmington. Her husband's sister, who had cared for: her invalid mother, married, and Alice went to live with and care for her motherin-law. Her husband soon wearied 260 of being in Salt Lake alone, so he, too, went to live at his mother's home and for a time farmed on shares. While here, two children were born to them, George F., Jr., and Alice Minerva. They moved to Fielding, Box Elder county, Utah, in the spring of 1885 where they engaged as pioneers in arid farming and stock raising. Sister Richards remembers that again and again she had to prepare meals, aided only by two little children, for as many as twenty-one hungry men at heading and threshing times. They remained in Fielding until the winter of 1888-89 when they moved to Tooele, where they lived for eighteen years. During the time they were in Fielding they spent one winter in Farmington where their son, LeGrande, was born, and nine months in Nephi assisting Brother Richards' sister, Asenath Grover, in the settlement of her deceased husband's estate. While in Nephi, Joel was born. When Alice's father died, her little sister, Estella, now a girl of ten years of age, was taken into their home as one of their family. Nine of their children were born in Tooele. While in Tooele, Brother Richards served in the stake presidency for sixteen years, and Sister Richards frequently entertained the authorities who came to visit the stake. She was the soul of hospitality, giving to her guests the best she had. Brother Richards' duties as a member of the stake presidency necessitated his being absent from home frequently at week-ends, leaving much of the training of the children to her, and she devoted her life unselfishly to their care. One of the dearest recollections of their children is of their mother gathering them around her on a Sunday afternoon to tell them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stories, answer their eager questions, and as they now realize, to instill into their minds and hearts a love of righteousness and a desire and determination to become worthy sons and daughters. Their friends were delighted with the privilege of joining this family group, and many mothers have expressed to Sister Richards their appreciation for what she has done for their children. Her home and children were her first considerations. She taught them to seek the highest goal, to work for the truest success, to live to love and bless their fellows, and rarely have seed germs fallen on more fertile soil. Often the busy mother regretted not being able to devote more time to church and public work, but who can measure the amount of good she has accomplished! All her sons and one daughter have filled honorable missions abroad, and all are true, devoted Latter-day Saints, doing their part in carrying on the work of the Church. These children give evidence of their beautiful home life and the motherly devotion lavished upon them in their childhood days. In 1906, Elder George F.. Richards was called to the apostleship, to become one of the special witnesses of our Lord and Savior in modern times. They then moved to Salt Lake City where their last two children were born. Brother Richards' duties now called him away from home a great deal of the time and while Sister Richards' responsibilities were greatly increased, she cheerfully assumed the added cares, encouraging her husband to do his duty and leave home unworried with a mind free to meet the problems presented in his ministry. During her husband's absence from home, presiding over the European Mission, from August 6, ALICE ROBINSON RICHARDS 1916 to July 25, 1919, she had the entire responsibility of caring for the family. During this period she passed through some very trying conditions. Serious physical accidents happened to two of her young sons, and at different times influenza, scarlet fever, and diphtheria, made their appearance, and death took one of her granddaughters. When illness came she was appalled at the thought of being quarantined and not having the Priesthood in the house, but the thought came to her, the spirit of the Lord can be here, and she relied upon that spirit and felt greatly blessed. During this trying time, she read the Book of Mormon through and found comfort in its pages. In March, 1919, she accompanied Elder Junius F. Wells and Sister James Gunn McKay to England, 261 where she spent several months with her husband, returning with him when his missionary work was finished. The longing of Sister Richards' heart to give time to Church service was to find wonderful gratification. Her husband was appointed president of the Salt Lake Temple on March 14, 1921, shortly after the death of President Anthon H. Lund,. And on August 25, 1922, Sister Richards was set apart by President Heber J. Grant to assist her husband in directing the work of the sisters in the Temple. She has manifested the same efficiency in her temple work that was evidenced in her home. She is deeply loved by all who labor in this sacred house. Indeed, it is. Not uncommon for the workers to address her as mother. It is probably true that no woman who has ALICE R. RICHARDS AND HER EIGHT DAUGHTERS 262 headed the sisters in any temple has given more satisfactory service and been more deeply loved. She feels that her temple work has meant more to her than anything in life excepting the bearing and rearing of her family. She enjoys meeting with the sisters who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that some day her faithfulness and devotion would be rewarded with the privilege of spending most of her time there, in working side by side with her husband in directing the work of the temple. In addition to presiding over the sisters' activities, keeping all in order, and carrying ALICE ROBINSON RICHARDS greet her each morning as she enters the temple. Years ago, after having been to the temple to do work for her dead, she had expressed her appreciation of the few hours in the House of the Lord and she often remarked that it would be a joy to work there continually, if only to scrub floors. Little did she dream forward the work she has to do, she frequently goes through the temple, working to redeem her dead kindred. Many privileges and opportunities of meeting fine people and of traveling have come to Sister Richards. When her children were young, she stayed home looking ALICE ROBINSON RICHARDS after them. As they grew up and left the home to make homes of their own, her obligations were less taxing and she accompanied her husband on trips to places of interest. In 1905 she and her husband were privileged to go on an excursion arranged by President Joseph F. Smith for the purpose of dedicating the Joseph Smith monument at Vermont, on the-one hundredth anniversary of the Prophet's birth. Brother and Sister Richards took their eighteen-months-old ' son, Oliver, with them. She has had the pleasure of going with her husband when he toured several of the missions of the United States. She has made several trips to the Northwest, and to California, one being to attend the World's Fair at San Francisco. Present at the dedication of the Alberta Temple and of the Arizona Temple and assisted in the inaugration of the temple ordinances there. The understanding and love between Brother and Sister Richards has been most beautiful and complete. He deeply appreciates the devotion she has bestowed upon. Him and their children and their home and the support she has given him in his ministry. Brother and Sister Richards not only team together in work but in play also?occasionally they may be seen on the golf course together or with their children, playing the game with an interest and zeal becoming to people much younger. Sister Richards' children often say that she is always wherever most needed, and that when troubles have come to them they hardly know how they could have endured them had it not been for the devoted and thoughtful love of their father and mother. She was 263 Sister Richards could not possibly accomplish all that she does if she were not such a fast worker. She is quick in her movements, very energetic in her mind. She laughs much and says she tries never to cross a bridge until she gets to it. She has been so busy serving others that she has not had time to think of herself and grow old. On March 9, 1932, President and Sister Richards celebrated their golden wedding anniversary. They have enjoyed fifty happy years, blessed with the favor of God. They have been honored and loved by all with whom they have associated. A large posterity has gladdened their hearts!) Their kingdom is well established. At this celebration, forty-five of their family were present, sixteen were absent and ten had been called from the earth life. Sister Richards says, "They have been fifty happy years. I am enjoying heaven here and now." Truly the price of Sister Richards is above rubies. The heart of her husband has safely trusted in her, She has worked willingly with her hands. Strength and honor have been round about her. She has rejoiced in the favor of God. She has opened her mouth with wisdom and on her tongue has been the law of kindness. She has looked well to the ways of her household, and now her children arise and call her blessed. Her husband also praiseth her. Truly is she worthy to dwell in the House of God and to minister in its sacred ordinances, for purity and sweetness and grace are with her, and her life has made her very presence a benediction.