Thoroughbred By Christie Lund
Charles Leydon flushed, smiling, bounded down the wide staircase, two steps at a time. He was immaculately dressed in evening clothes. He paused before a long French mirror at the foot of the stairs while he adjusted his tie and smoothed down an unruly lock of hair. As he turned from his reflection he saw his father standing in the doorway looking at him intently.
"Hello, Dad," he greeted, "How goes it!"
"Fine, son, thanks," answered the older man, soberly, "Can you come in a moment?"
"Sure. In my excitement I'm ready ahead of time." So he followed him into the expensive, softly lighted room. Each time Charles entered this study he thought of how much it was like his father: quiet, sturdy, commanding, yet withal exceedingly friendly. Mr. Leydon motioned him to a chair and then sat down opposite him. He toyed with his watch chain a moment before he spoke, seeming to weigh the words he was about to speak. Charles, watching him, wondered if he was displeased at something he had done. He looked suddenly old in the half darkness and the boy felt a quick wave of tenderness for him.
"Did you go to Goddard this afternoon?" he began finally.
"Yes, Dad, I took the papers to Martha Howart as you requested me to."
"Did Virginia go with you?"
"Yes. Why?"
"Oh, nothing I just wondered about her reaction to—oh, everything."
"Well, she was quite repulsed by the squalor of the place. And the woman was so pitifully old, so humble and yet so eager to be kind. You must have mentioned me to her for she seemed, actually fond of me; she insisted upon giving me a sweater she had made—goodness knows what I'll do with it with half a dozen hanging around now. Who is she, Dad, an old sweetheart?"
The man looked up and said sharply, "No, son, certainly not. She is an old friend, a very good friend, keep that in mind. As to her poverty, I have offered her financial assistance but she is too proud to accept it. However, 'Poverty and riches are of the spirit.' Did you say she seemed—old?"
"Yes, she seemed very old—and hurt. I happened to put my hand on her shoulder and she looked at me with an expression like that in the eyes of a loyal dog, after a kindness. Don't think I was rude to her, I wasn't. Aren't you coming over to DeWitt's soon? It's a big night for me. Mrs. DeWitt has spared nothing to make our announcement party a big event, though I don't think many suspect it, really. Gee, Dad, I'm happy."
"I'm happy for you, son, Virginia is a fine girl."
"She's perfect—equal to anything. But I'll have to dash or I'll be late and that would never do, would it?" Then, suddenly, the smile disappeared from his face and he added, seriously, "Please, Dad, perk up. You look like you've lost your best friend. Aren't you well?"
"Yes, yes," he assured him, "I am quite well—but—oh, well, run along and I'll see you later."
"O. K. I'll be looking for you."
As the boy turned to go the man reached out his hand as though to detain him but before he could speak the boy, unseeing, had passed beyond the door.
Charles was quite right about Mrs. DeWitt, for though she always entertained perfectly, tonight she had quite surpassed herself. Her home was the largest and most beautifully appointed in town, her servants were the most efficient; she, herself, was the most socially prominent woman—her ancestry had founded the city of Elleston and the public library, public park and several other institutions still bore her grandfather's name. Virginia was the only one to carry on the family traditions.
The dinner had been a huge success; the rooms were scented with the perfume of flowers; music floated through the house, intermingled with the laughter of gay, young voices, controlled fine voices even in their mirth. There was an atmosphere of refinement pervading the whole affair, refinement matching that of the young man and woman whose betrothal was to be announced.
The evening was drawing to a close. Charles and Virginia dancing together were without question the handsomest couple on the floor, both clean-featured, tall and slim and straight. "A couple of thoroughbreds" was the way one young man expressed it as they passed him and his partner, but his partner, a modern young woman, disagreed, "A couple of snobs, I'd say."
"No, really," he insisted, "they're the real thing, a little highbrow, but pure gold."
"How do you know they're pure gold? They've never had anything to test their worth, probably never will have, but they have the background and training and that's all that is necessary."
Charles heard the remarks but gave no sign except to hurry Virginia quickly past them. He guided her through an open French door, opening upon a conservatory where they could be alone and unobserved. He looked down into her eyes, raised her slim, white hand to his lips and whispered:
"Darling, this is the happiest moment in my life. To think that in another week you will be mine and that tonight the world will know. Oh, my dear."
She lifted cool, young lips for his swift kiss. "I'm so happy, too," she murmured. "Everyone has been so wonderful—Mother and Dad and your father."
"Yes," he mused, "it seems strange that though he isn't really my father he is all I've ever known."
"Don't think of that tonight, Charles."
Their conversation was interrupted by Mrs. DeWitt accompanied by Mr. Leydon.
"You children will have to pardon this untimely interruption," began Mrs. DeWitt with a knowing smile, "but your father and I were talking and he says he has something to tell us before we make the announcement."
"Perhaps," he said, slowly, unsmilingly, "I should not say what I am going to say or should have said it before, but somehow, I could not bring myself to say it. It is about your parentage, Charles. I have deliberated carefully and have decided that inasmuch as you are a man now and going to take a wife, you have a right to know all that I know and your fiancee has a right to know also—in case it might make a difference."
"Surely," began Virginia, "It can't possibly make any difference; let's not speak of it."
"I must tell you," insisted the man. "Whether it will make any difference or not remains to be seen. Your father was a fine man but his family objected to his marriage because your mother had no family background. She was quite bitter against them and when your father was killed in an accident, rather than let his parents take you away from her and not wanting to raise you in poverty, she let us adopt you, making us promise that you would know nothing about it until you were a man. I have not seen or heard from her for years—until recently."
"Who was my mother?" asked the boy, quietly.
"I was coming to that. I've always told you that I did not know, but it is—Martha Howart, the woman you saw today in Goddard. Your words about her made me realize that she must have suffered keenly and also that she is getting old. Life owes her something."
The three of them had all perceptibly gasped.
"You don't mean the woman Virginia was telling me about this evening?" questioned Mrs. DeWitt. "Why, I understand she did cleaning and mending to make a livelihood—Oh—." She paused, unable to finish.
Charles stood very still, very pale. Virginia stared unseeingly ahead of her, clutching her hands against her breast, her fine mouth trembling, and after a moment she drew up her head and said, almost angrily, "Mr. Leydon, I think you have waited rather a long time in telling us this. It is indeed a poor time to mention it. Why should you tell him now when he would have been much happier had he never known? It can do nothing for him but hurt him, no one must know, he cannot acknowledge her—."
"That is for him to decide," said the man who had been a father to him, had reared and loved him as his own flesh and blood.
"But it is an utter impossibility, undreamed of," declared Mrs. DeWitt, a hysterical note in her voice, "Half the people in this town have friends in Goddard, it would be no time until the rumor of it would be about."
Charles alone was silent, standing as one transfixed. The three waited for him to speak, but unheedingly he turned and walked a short distance from them. He was thinking deeply. He was remembering the woman he had seen today, the things she had said to him, the look in her eyes. It hurt him tremendously, yet he came back to the three people whose faces were studies in conflicting emotions and said, helplessly, "What shall I do?"
"There is nothing to do, Charles, except to go on as if you did not know. It would ruin everything—our carefully laid plans—" Virginia told him evenly.
"Of course, now that you know she is your mother you could arrange to help her in one way or another, but it would be worse than foolish to let sentiment go against reason and to let her come into your life."
"You mean you would refuse to marry me if I acknowledged her?"
"I don't know," she whispered.
"Well, under the circumstances," went on Mrs. DeWitt, "it would hardly be wise to proceed further—at this time."
Suddenly, angrily, Charles turned to his father, "Why," he demanded vehemently, "haven't you told me this before? Why have you raised me in ignorance to this stage and then tell me at the happiest hour of my life? I should have been happier if I had been raised by her, in her class, all my life, than to have to go back to all those things—the common things that I have learned almost to despise."
"I did not tell you before," explained Mr. Leydon quietly, "because it was her wish and because I was selfish in wanting you. I only tell you now because I thought you were a man and old enough to meet a problem for yourself. I thought you might want to do something for her—before it is too late. If you are not that kind of a man it is because I have raised you the way I have. God never made a braver, finer woman than your mother."
Charles stared at the floor, his face pale. After a moment he said softly, "I'm sorry, Dad, forgive me. I love you deeply and somewhere, in my being, I must love her also." Then, "May I have a moment alone with Virginia, please?"
Virginia walked to the door with her mother and he stood waiting, thinking. The words he had said a moment before came back to him and made him flush with shame. On top of them came the words he had heard in the dance, "Snobs—they have never had anything to test their worth." A bitter laugh caught in his throat at the thought of the word, "Thoroughbred." Again he saw the face of Martha Howart—his mother; saw the look of worship in her face. He realized as his father had suggested that he had been raised to be selfish. Oh, a form of unselfishness had been part of his training but the kind that meant real sacrifice was unknown to him. He remembered the package lying unopened somewhere, the sweater that his mother, with failing eye-sight, tired hands had knitted for him—him, an ingrate—a, he had to admit it—a snob.
He turned to Virginia, who was waiting for him to speak.
"What I said a moment ago was madness, I am truly sorry," he began hurriedly.
"What do you mean?" she demanded.
"I mean," he told her, "that I would be worse than a cad if I knew my mother and refused to acknowledge her. You understand, don't you dear, that I have to go to her, have to make up in a measure for all these years she has spent alone. Think of her, working, slaving, hungering, letting me have all the things she could never have, knowing her own flesh and blood was in the world and she couldn't have him, because she wanted him to have a chance—." His voice broke and trailed off into silence.
"But," the girl before him said, incredulously, "in spite of what you have said so eloquently, think of how impossible it would be to go to her. What would people say?"
"I don't care what they would say or think, it is the only thing I could possibly do and keep my self-respect."
"Charles," she interrupted him, "How can you talk like that? Don't you realize what it means to us? Father and Mother would never let us marry—at least, not until the scandal had blown over. You can't love me or you wouldn't submit me to such a humiliation. Think of the fall."
"I can see your point, darling, and it isn't that I don't love you. Why, I love you more than anything in the world. But someone has aptly said, 'I could not love you dear, so much loved I not honor more.' This is honor, duty. Why must it disrupt our plans? I am still the same, you are unchanged and our love, surely, can't be affected. Can't we go on the same, unmindful of what people would say?"
"I'm sorry," she sighed, "but I'm afraid we can't. I would be laughed at by people who have said I thought myself better than they. They would be happy to see me in such a position."
"Wouldn't breaking our engagement prove that you did think that? That you considered yourself too good to marry someone whose family didn't measure up?"
She drew herself up haughtily, "The engagement is broken. No one need know the reason unless you choose to go to your mother immediately. Though I should appreciate your waiting a short time."
"As you wish," he conceded.
She slipped a beautiful solitaire from her finger and laid it in his palm and without another word or look left the room. He watched her go with a sickening sense of loss. She had failed to measure up and still he wanted her as he had never wanted anything before, but he could make no move to stop her. Nothing could change his mind now—nothing. He was ashamed that he had ever thought, even momentarily, of any other course.
Several months had passed. Winter had given away to spring. The days were warm and long, there was the hum of bees in the stimulating warm air. After waiting what seemed a decent time Charles had left the home of his foster father and gone to live in his mother's humble abode—in spite of the protests of both. He had gone to work earnestly with his law and was fast becoming one of the best known young lawyers in that section of the country. He found a strange joy, unknown to him before, in being able to accomplish something for himself, in being something more than the pampered son of Elleston's richest man. There was a wealth of peace in his heart each night as he came home and saw the light of pride in his mother's eyes.
Now and then his heart ached at remembrance of the girl he had loved, the girl whose love had not been big enough to meet the thing he had asked her to meet. He was still invited to social functions in Elleston and also in Goddard but he declined to go. He often visited Mr. Leydon, whose life was very lonely but the only real satisfaction he knew was in determined, unrelenting work.
"Charles, dear," said his mother one evening as they were seated on the vine-covered porch and she noticed that his eyes kept wandering from the book he was reading to stare into the distance where the purple shadows were settling noiselessly upon the world, "Why don't you accept some of the invitations you receive. Mr. Leydon wants you to. I feel that I have robbed you of all the things you spent your life acquiring: your fine friends, your social position—and it hurts me so."
"Mother, please!" he begged her, "Don't talk like that. I never knew what worthwhile things were until I turned from wealth and took up the duty of being a son worthy of such a mother. I can't ever do enough for you, but please believe that I am happier now than I have ever been. My only regret is, that I did not find you sooner. Why didn't you let Mr. Leydon know where you were before, instead of living in secrecy so long?"
She smiled wistfully as she answered, "I thought it wiser not to tell him. It was enough to know that you were alive, well, having the things I couldn't have given you. Then, I learned you were going to be married and I wrote to him, I had to know who you were going to marry; he was very kind, offered to let me come and live with him, as a relative, before you found out. But I'm too old.
"Now, I don't know what it was made you and Miss Virginia break up, but if it was me I would have felt better never to have had you know I was your mother and if you aren't happy you know there is nothing I wouldn't do to make you so."
"Oh, I know, I know," he assured her, "But do you think there is anything a boy needs or wants more than his mother's love? There isn't. And oh, I love you so, dear little mother. I want to be worthy of you and to marry a woman worthy of you. The rift between Virginia and myself was purely a matter of principle."
Virginia DeWitt was having a talk with her mother that same evening, though of a somewhat different sort. She came home from an afternoon tea, her eyes bright with tears, her cheeks unusually flushed. She had heard a remark that she might have heard months before—had not her dancing partner guided her swiftly past a certain young couple. At the tea she had come into the room unannounced and unnoticed, only to hear her own name mentioned. The same young woman who had doubted her worth before was saying, "I always knew Virginia was a snob. I thought Charles was, too, but he surely proved himself to be just what Jim said he was, a thoroughbred. What wouldn't I do for a man like that."
Virginia slipped out and delayed her entrance until the conversation was well under way on another topic. Then she came in, her usual, poised self. However, her thoughts were aggravation to her and she was glad when it came time to leave. For the first time in her life she questioned herself saying, "I wonder if she could be right? I hadn't thought of it in those terms—I was so sure I was right, but maybe I did ask too much. Maybe—I am a—snob."
By the time she had reached her mother's boudoir she was quite convinced that the girl had been right and she was justifiably angry with herself and her mother and all the influences that had made her as she now saw herself.
"Mother," she began, briefly, throwing her bag and gloves upon the nearest chair, "there is something I want to talk to you about. First, let me say, that if Charles could possibly want me now I am going to marry him; second, both you and I are going to try and make up to him and his mother for the snobs we have been. Yes, we are snobs, Mother, snobs in the truest sense of the word. We have set ourselves up as better than anyone in this town, and why? Because our grandparents happened to put our name into prominence. We have done nothing ourselves, to make us superior. We couldn't, in a hundred years, make the sacrifices that that woman has made. I'm going to them now and get down on my knees if necessary."
She paused, breathlessly, and her mother said, calmly, "There, there, don't get so excited. Don't think of doing such a thing as going to him, think how ridiculous you would appear to your friends."
"I've already appeared as ridiculous as possible to them. This is my only chance of redeeming myself, though now, for once I'm not thinking of that. I don't care what people think or say. I love Charles and I love his mother for bringing him into the world."
She turned and walked from the room, her head high, her mouth firm, her bearing defying any interference. Mrs. DeWitt watching her knew, in spite of her bewilderment, that she was her mother's daughter.
Virginia drove her roadster at terrific speed all the way to Goddard. There was no wavering of purpose, no weakening of resolve until she reached the shaded house on West Lake street. Then her heart beat violently, her hand trembled as she tried to open the car door, she was terribly shaken. She did not see Charles sitting in the shadows but he saw her and had all he could do to keep from rushing to her with out-stretched hands. He waited until she was near the porch then arose with an exclamation of surprise.
At sight of him she gasped and took hold of the porch railing for support. Somehow, the words were rushing from her, "Charles," she said, "There is something I want to say to you—if you will listen."
"Why, Virginia," he murmured, striving to keep his voice from betraying how he felt, "Come up and sit down."
She sat down beside him in the porch swing and stammered, "I've been an awful fool. I can see it so clearly now. I know you can't possibly care for me any more but I had to come and tell you how sorry and ashamed I am. I thought I was right but I can see now how wrong I was, while you, you were—so splendid."
He drew her into his arms and held her close, pressing his lips against her hair. "I've wanted a thousand times to come to you," he told her, "but I felt we could never be happy until you understood. Oh, I realize how hard this coming has been for you and I'm proud of you, my sweetheart."
"Proud of me?" she asked tremulously, tears in her eyes, "Why, it's the only fine, decent thing I have ever done. You are a thoroughbred—just like Ruth said. And where is your mother? I want—I want to go to her."
"Kiss me and I'll take you in to her. She is the thoroughbred."