Notes from the Field
One of the most interesting stories that have been sent to the general office are accounts of the tree planting. Relief Society takes pride in this, as it is a material expression of the spirit of the organization—the beautification of the immediate surroundings, and the joy that will come to future generations through the efforts of the women today. Very delightful accounts have been written of the bicentennial celebration in honor of George Washington, and even in communities where there were other objectives the idea has taken root, and brought forth wonderful results. Perhaps our stake in the north, Taylor, would take first rank in this splendid achievement for the number of trees planted.
Taylor Stake: "During the past year some of the stake Relief Society decided to do honor to the Canadian Fathers of the Confederation, by planting trees in their honor. Appropriate services were held in Memorial Park, at which time a group of eighty-six people were present, and a most impressive program was rendered. The children of the public schools sang patriotic songs, and the flag was raised in honor of the occasion. The dedicatory prayer was offered by Bishop Levi Harker. President Julia E. Ririe gave an appropriate speech, explaining the purpose of the memorial services for tree planting, which were Church-wide in scope. The poem, "Trees," was read by Myrtle Passey, and timely remarks were made by the former mayor, Ira C. Fletcher, and by the Rev. J. A. Claxton. The Mountain Ash was selected as the best tree for the climate in the north land. There were 8,192 trees planted during the year. These were not all Mountain Ash. The Canadian Government furnished the trees, and as it is a large open country, many people have taken advantage of the generosity of the Government, and planted trees on their farms. The large number of trees quoted does not include the flowering shrubs, or trees that were planted particularly around some of the church grounds, but only those that were sponsored by the Relief Society. Congratulations certainly go to the Taylor Stake for being alert, not only in tree planting, but in other forms of Relief Society activity.
San Francisco Stake: Another most delightful tree planting story comes from San Francisco. This took the form of a memorial to the ninetieth anniversary of the Relief Society. In February of this year, the thought occurred to the sisters of San Francisco that it would be a very fine thing to celebrate the ninetieth anniversary of the Relief Society, and it was decided that the finest memorial would be to plant a grove of trees in Golden Gate Park. A committee was appointed to wait upon the Superintendent of the Park, and ask permission to do this. The Superintendent of Golden Gate Park, Mr. J. W. McLaren, has served for 45 years. He was very cordial in his reception of the Relief Society sisters, who explained to him that they were Latter-day Saints, and outlined the purpose of their visit to him. He told them the necessary steps they must take in order to get the permission of the Park Commissioners. The permit was issued to the sisters to plant the trees, but upon investigation it was found that the cost of planting a grove of trees was far in excess of the amount of money the sisters were prepared to spend. A second consultation was held with Mr. McLaren, and he was given an idea of the Relief Society work, and the Program of activity conducted in San Francisco and adjacent country. The question was put as to whether they would be allowed to purchase the trees at wholesale, as the Commissioners did. The ladies were assured that Mr. McLaren would do what he could, and were advised to call again. When they appeared the next time, a bit anxious as to the possible outcome, Mr. McLaren said, "Don't you worry, we will donate you the trees, and everything will be ready for you on Thursday, March 17th."
Sister Eva B. Merrill writes, "A flag pole had been erected, and the first thing to greet us was the faint flutter of Old Glory, as if to say, 'I was the first one here.' Tables and benches had been brought to the spot for our convenience. We met at 11 a. m., and prepared lunch. From 11:45 until 1 p. m., we served lunch to a large crowd—about 150 people, including J. E. Johnson, stake president; Ester Stephens, of the Relief Society Presidency, Bishops Fred Merrill and C. W. Nalder. From 1 p. m., until 2 p. m., games on the grass; 2 p. m., until 3:15 p. m., we had a very fine program, after which each ward was presented with a new shovel and three trees to plant. Every person participated in the planting. The ground had been previously prepared by the supervisor of that part of the park. What a sight and privilege it was to see all those women taking the dirt out and putting it in, and to think our Relief Society women were planting trees in that renowned Park by the Golden Gate and the great Pacific Ocean, to commemorate the ninetieth anniversary of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
"We planted sixteen trees on March 17th. On Washington's Birthday, our Mission Ward Relief Society planted a tree in the same plot, so now we have seventeen trees in all. After the trees had been planted, Bishop C. W. Nalder dedicated the plot and named it "The Mormon Grove."
Deseret Stake: During the past year the Deseret Stake Relief Society has been most active. In the Summer months the visiting teachers made a record of practically 100% in visits made. The teachers' topics were outlined by the teacher topic class leaders. For July, supervision of summer activities, such as swimming, dancing, canyon outings, etc. August, the monthly charity donation, with a suggestive list of things that could be donated if cash was not available. September, a cottage meeting was held in each district, or in some cases a group of districts, and these were held at the homes of the homebound or inactive Relief Society members. The visiting teachers were in charge of the meetings, and the subject of economy was discussed. In most cases the refreshments were served by the teachers. A very delightful Relief Society conference was held in every ward in the stake. One stake board member was in attendance. The theme of the conference was the visiting teachers' work, including the history, duty, responsibility and qualifications of the visiting teachers. Through the efforts of the stake executive officers and the social service aid, nine of the twelve wards pooled their wheat interest, and by special arrangements, and with the splendid cooperation of the local doctors, tonsil operations were performed at a very nominal cost. This was the first year that the pooling of the wheat interest has been achieved, but the results are so gratifying that it gives promise for much more in the future. In the late summer a Work and Business and Visiting Teachers convention was held in Delta. The objective was to stress these two very important phases of Relief Society work. After the opening exercises, the stake president and secretary conducted the business, and each ward president was given special instructions for ward work as well as some general information. At the same time the other ten board members conducted a work group for a period of 30 minutes. This was followed by a round table discussion on visiting teachers' problems, particularly how to make their teaching more effective, and to see the need there is of carrying the spirit of Relief Society into the lives of the members. While the teachers were having this discussion, the work committees arranged an exhibition of the work done in the wards during the last year. Refreshments were served by the stake board to 250 who were in attendance at the meeting.
LEHI STAKE CELEBRATES ITS BIRTHDAY
Lehi Stake: The Lehi Stake Relief Society celebrated its third birthday in a most interesting way. A play based upon the history of the ward and stake Relief Societies was presented. Incidents of the organization from its earliest period, formed the narrative. The first episode was in the fall of 1868, and showed the sisters preparing the old school house for the first Relief Society meeting held there. The second episode was the Jubilee year, 1892—just an old sewing bee. The more elderly sisters told the younger members of the hardships of early pioneers, and of the progress that had been made since. The third scene represented the modern meeting. This time was turned over to the stake president, Sister Harriet M. Webb. Some 500 sisters had the pleasure of hearing our beloved General President, Sister Louise Y. Robison; Counselor Julia A. Child, Sister Emeline Y. Nebeker, and Sister Mary C. Kimball of the General Board. One interesting feature of the meeting was the old-timers chorus, led by Sister Loda Bradshaw. All the sisters participating in this were over sixty years of age. The Relief Society furnished music while refreshments were served by the stake officers. A color scheme was carried out in blue and gold. The ladies serving were dressed in white with blue and gold caps. The flowers were beautiful, and were also in the color scheme as far as it was possible. Nine of the original members of the pioneer organization were present. These were presented with flowers. An exhibition of the work accomplished during the Work and Business Meeting added to the pleasure of the occasion.
Boise Stake: An interesting story of Relief Society activities in Boise came to the office. In the late Summer the Boise Stake Relief Society held what was called a dollar day in every Relief Society throughout the stake. Each ward was requested to take part in this, and plan a social, to which every L. D. S. Woman in the community was invited. Each Relief Society sister was invited not only to enjoy the party, but to bring $1.00 with which to renew her subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. Some of the socials were held in the park, some in the local meeting houses, but all were very successful. The programs were interesting and games and refreshments added to the pleasure. The stake board offered a banner in blue and gold as the award to the ward having the highest percentage of subscriptions according to the enrollment. This banner was won by the Melba Ward. It was felt that the day was most successful, and the results very satisfactory regarding subscriptions to the Magazine.
Some very fine Washington Bicentennial programs were given in this stake. Among them was that of the Relief Society stake board, which held its celebration on February 22, at 3 o'clock, at the home of the President, Mrs. Mary C. Martineau. Mrs. Mary C. Allred, dressed as a Colonial lady, served cherry pie. Greetings were exchanged, and each member contributed a wise saying of George Washington, to be told to the children. The board then repaired to the Stake Tabernacle grounds, where the tree which was planted in honor of the "father of our country" was dedicated by President Heber Q. Hale. Before offering the dedicatory prayer, and while the sisters stood in a circle around the tree, President Hale spoke of the message and the high standard of the service of George Washington to his country.
Oquirrh Stake: On September 16, 1931, the Relief Society of Oquirrh stake held its third flower show at Pleasant Green. On account of lack of water, and dry weather, many doubted that it would be possible to raise any flowers for display, but the blossoms were wonderful. Three hundred and ten entries filled the long white-covered tables with flowers that were exceptionally worthy of our praise. The Relief Societies have endeavored to have bouquets at all Sacrament services. This was encouraged by giving rose bushes for prizes. In response to the request of President Louise Y. Robison, all the wards planted trees this Spring.