A Home-Made Rose-Jar By Jessie M. Robinson
In making a rose-jar the first thing necessary is the jar. This may be purchased in the five-and-ten or any oriental or crockery ware store. The plain glazed ones are most attractive. First, drop five drops of oil of rose geranium in the empty jar, adding one drop of glycerine to prevent evaporation; and when the drops are in the bottom of the rose-jar gently tip the jar from side to side for a few minutes. Now drop in a few partly dried rose petals. Moist ones will grow musty. Cover the jar with its cover or covers, shake, set away and do not open until next day. Meanwhile dry all the rose leaves you can. After pulling the petals off your roses, lay them out in the sun and let them curl slightly. After a day's drying, drop them into the jar; cover, shake, and let stand again. According to the size of the jar, add a handful or teacupful of rose leaves each day until the fourth, then pour one to three drops of oil of rose geranium upon the leaves, and a teaspoonful of alcohol. Continue this routine until the leaves have quit settling, then add a teaspoonful of ground cloves and a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. Do not have the jar too full, as then it cannot be stirred, and it is in the stirring that the sweetness comes forth in winter. Finally turn all the leaves out in a china dish, and add to the jar one drop of glycerine and three drops of oil of rose (synthetic); this last may be omitted if too expensive. Push back the rose leaves, on top of the mass pour a tablespoonful of alcohol and three to six drops each of oil of lavender and rosemary; add one ounce of Tonka bean in powder and two ounces of Iris. Now cover your jar well and set it away. In three days open it again and stir it. Repeat every three days for a month, and you will, at the end of that time, have a rose-jar that is complete, one that will send out its fragrance through the room all winter, and which, when open, will fill the whole house with a soft, sweet scent, invigorating and delightful, redolent of the summer rose garden., By Jessie M. Robinson Relief Society Texts For 1932-33 LITERARY TEXT? "The Delight of Great Books" by John Erskine, $1.50 postpaid. SOCIAL SERVICE TEXTS? "White House Conference, 1930" 60c postpaid. "Booklet on Habits" "Booklet on Growth" "Booklet on Personality" complete set, 25c postpaid. Send orders to National Woman's Relief Society 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MORE for YOUR MONEY No matter what, you may purchase it is but natural that you should desire the utmost value. For your money. When making an investment over a period of years special care should be taken to assure yourself that you are getting absolutely the very best to be had. When you obtain a Beneficial policy you become ia part of the company and share in the net earnings each year. The one great exclusive feature, Sti Love Hors Sareticispelling Seley has: sufficient merit, to convince the most skeptical?there is more value per dollar in Beneficial Life Insurance. " The BIG HOME COMPANY BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: SALT LAKE CITY BENEFICIAL PREMIUMS ARE USED TO BUILD UP THE WEST When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager The Bas)