Rickets—Cause and Prevention By Anna Page, Nutrition Specialist, State Department of Education HAT is meant by rickets? What causes rickets? What prevents rickets? When rickets is mentioned today something quite different is meant than the rickets of twenty years ago. During -the last twelve years our knowledge of rickets has greatly increased. 'Newer rickets" is the term used to designate the disorder of the bone, which may be so mild that it readily escapes observation, unless X ray pictures are taken. The cause of the newer rickets is known, and the dominant role that ultra violet light plays in prevention and cure of rickets is appreciated. Compare this to the "older rickets" which is characterized by the markedly bent extremities, and the chest greatly misshapen. Rickets is a condition in which the body's use of the minerals, calcium and phosphorus is so disturbed that the bone does not form or grow normally. When calcium phosphate fails to deposit in the bone there is an over-growth of cartilaginous tissue at the end of the long bones which causes the all too familiar enlargements of wrists, ankles, and rib junctions. The "rachitic rosary," an enlargement or beading where the front and back ribs join, results from rickets. Because the bones do not grow and develop normally, the chest becomes noticeably contracted resulting in the "pigeon breast," which is a distinct sign of rickets. The pigeon breast is one of the worst deformities of rickets, as it may interfere with respiration throughout life, thus making the child more susceptible to colds, tuberculosis and the other diseases of the respiratory tract.; Bowlegs and knock knees result when the leg bones are not strong enough to support the weight of the child learning to walk. In severe cases, rickets affects the shape of the head. The skull develops "bosses" on the sides and front, and the shape becomes square. The pelvis of the female is arrested which makes child birth more dangerous. Rachitic children are usually restless, irritable, listless, the "muscles are relaxed, softening of the bone occurs, walking is delayed, and there is sluggishness in the intestines producing constipation, weak abdomen, which results in pot belly. In some cases severe anemia accompanies rickets. There is disturbance of the nervous system which may result in convulsions. Rickets also has to be considered in connection with the pneumonia of infants. It is believed that rickets increases the susceptibility to pneumonia. Since teeth consist of a material similar to bone, diet or conditions unfavorable for the building of bone may also lead to poor teeth and dental caries. Teeth that are malformed, delayed, badly spaced, and subject to decay are considered symptoms of rickets. In rickets growth may not be retarded necessarily since nature seems to allow the bones to increase in length to conform with growth in other tissues, but their rigidity is decreased because there has not been a sufficient deposit of the stiffening material. Consequently we may see the infant on the high RICKETS CAUSE AND PREVENTION carbohydrate fattening diet, looking plump and well nourished, when an X-ray may reveal that the bones are not keeping up with the growth of the body as a whole. When such children begin to walk they show the characteristic signs of rickets already listed. The knowledge of rickets has been so greatly increased that it should be a crime for any child to have rickets at the present time. Parents should realize the importance of the prevention of rickets rather than the delayed interest in the cure of them. The old proverb, "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" fits in very aptly in the case of rickets. The aim in bone development is not only to prevent bone deformities but to see that the bone development will give a good framework for the body. A house is no stronger than its framework. The body cannot be well built, or well proportioned unless the bones which represent the frame work of the body are well formed and well developed. Hess and Unger in a paper published in 1921 wrote: 'Rickets is the most common nutritional disease occurring among the children of the temperate zone. Fully three-fourths of the infants in the great cities such as New York, show rachitic signs of some degree." Forbes and Green have given us an account of rickets as it occurs in Denver, Colorado, Among some 500 children under the age of two years, rickets occurred ito some extent in almost one-third of the cases studied. In Ogden, Utah, rickets was found by E. H. Smith in about 18 per cent of the cases studied under his observation. These children were living under excellent hygienic conditions. There is no doubt that rickets is common throughout the 365 United States; that the severity is less in areas such as Colorado, inland Southern California, and Utah. Studies also show that rickets in Arizona, New Mexico and other southern states of the Union are far less common and of a milder intensity than in the northern states. Utah, because of the altitude and amount of sunshine, gives the necessary conditions for the prevention of rickets, yet unless the growing baby receives specific care, the bones will not be well developed and rickets may result. Work in Utah should be for protection rather than cure in the case of rickets. Hess believes that the new born infant brings with it into the world little of the protective factor against rickets. He says that rickets probably starts during the first weeks of life. The usual time for rickets to develop is between three months and two years of age. The first two years of life of the baby is the time to protect the child and insure normal bone development. Rickets occurs with exceptional frequency and in exaggerated degrees in premature infants. Rickets is far more common and _ severe among bottle-fed than among breast fed babies. Rickets has a seasonal incidence, with its peak in the winter and early spring and its ebb during the summer months, It is clear then, that premature infants, twins, bottle fed babies, and all normal babies, especially during the winter, need specific protection against rickets. THREE factors are necessary for the prevention of rickets, first, use of the right amount or proportion of calcium and phosphorus in the food; second, a sufficient amount of vitamin D; third, exposure to ultra violet radiation, 'which may be gained from sunlight or some artificial 366 source. Rickets may result from the lack of any one of these factors, but usually more than one factor is concerned. Bones are composed largely of calcium and phosphorus, about 99 per cent of the calcium of the body is found in the skeleton. If there is an insufficient amount of calcium in the diet of the child the bones are the first part of the body to sufter. During the first two years of life comes the greatest skeletal development, thus the growing child demands the large amounts of calcium and phosphorus. Bone formation takes place normally when calcium and phosphorus are retained in the infant's body in the proportion of approximately two to one. This is about the ratio in the human milk. This is probably the reason that there is a lower percentage of rickets in breast fed babies than in bottle fed babies, although breast fed babies are not immuned and need protection against rickets. In most cases, if milk forms the principal part of the diet, calcium and phosphorus will not be lacking in the diet. But in order to have the growing body use or retain these minerals vitamin D is necessary in the diet. Vitamin D is essential in helping in the calcification of the bone. Cod liver oil is a most valuable source of vitamin D. It has been used for many years in the treatment of rickets. Only in the last eight years has the reason been known for this curative effect of cod liver oil, In the six years from 1922-1927 our imports of cod liver oil and cod oil together have more than doubled. Lhis probably means that the increased use of cod liver oil in the United States will help in the reduction of rickets. Cod liver oil is not the only source of vitamin D, although it seems to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be the most dependable. Every child at least up to two years of age should have the benefits of cod liver oil. Cod liver oil is not only valuable because of the high vitamin D content, but also because it is an excellent source of vitamin A. Vitamin A is valuable for the baby in large amounts for the promotion of growth and building up the resistance of the child. Thus double protection is offered to the child by the regular use of cod liver oil. The second most potent source of vitamin D, after fish oils, is egg yolk, Egg yolk helps both in the prevention and cure of rickets if used in the diet of the baby. Dr. Hess gives egg yolk to bottle fed babies as early as five weeks, sometimes giving only the half of a raw egg yolk. The richness of eggs in vitamin D is merely one of many reasons for their increased emphasis in their use in the diet. Physicians and nutritionists are realizing that the excellent educational campaign for increasing the use of milk could well be supplemented by a similar one for eggs, to the great advantage of babies, children, and adults. "THE prevention or cure for rickets that is being recognized more at the present time is that of ultra violet light, or the sun. The ultra violet light has a marked effect on the utilization of calcium and phosphorus. It is generally understood that there is a fat like substance in the skin, called ergosterol. When the short rays of the sun shine on this substance, it is rectivated or changed to vitamin D. Thus ultra violet light from the sun gives the same protection against rickets as other sources of vitamin D. The short rays of the sun are the valuable rays. Their intensity varies under different conditions, as RICKETS—CAUSLE AND PREVENTION altitude, moisture, climate, and the time of day. It is common knowledge that the sunlight of the mountain tops has more ultra violet light than that of the lowlands. This is shown by the fact that the skin burns and tans more readily there, and the sun's glare is harder on the eyes. Measurements of results made at sea level and on a high mountain show twice as much ultra violet light at the higher altitude as at the lower altitude. Reflection from snow may almost double the light intensity. Water, too, is an excellent reflector of the ultra violet rays, and hence the easy tanning at the seashore in spite of the low altitude. Haze, cloudiness, or dust lowers the amount of ultra violet light. There is more ultra violet light at noon than in the early morning or late afternoon, and also more in the summer than in the winter. In many large cities during the winter the smoke and dust particles filter out the ultra violet light until very few of the short rays reach the earth. It has been estimated that the smoke pall in great cities may rob the city dweller of fully threequarters of the ultra violet rays he might enjoy. From studies that have been made it was found that the intensity of ultra violet light was 50 per cent greater in the country where there was little dust and smoke than in the center of the city where the air was heavy with the dust of combustion and traffic. Coal smoke was shown to be the chief offender in the exclusion of ultra violet light by the fact that the intensity of the rays varied inversely with the amount of soft coal used. In seasons when more hard coal and less soft coal was burned the sunlight contained a larger proportion of the ultra violet rays. Dr. Blunt says, "Against the decrease 367  due to the sun's seasonal variation, mankind is powerless, except as he may change his outdoor habits, but the loss through absorption. Of the ultra violet rays from soot and smoke and dust of the cities can be controlled. It is very strongly recommended during the winter months that all people spend as much time as possible in the sunshine between the hours of 11:30 and 1:30. It is then that the ultra violet light has the greatest intensity and affords the most value from the sun. In order to have the sun's rays be of value they should shine directly on the skin. The ordinary window glass does not permit of the transmission of the ultra violet light. There are several specially prepared window giasses that permit the short rays of the sun to pass through, but at the present time it does not seem practical for theiruse in the home. The child or baby will derive more benefit by being outside in the fresh air and sunshine, In the temperate zones, especially in the winter time ordinary dress probably allows very little ultra violet light to penetrate the skin. Modern women's dress is much more satisfactory in this regard, than men's closely woven and lined clothing. In order to obtain as much of the ultra violet light as will pass through clothing, loosely woven fabrics made of cotton, linen or artificial silk should be worn. Sun suits are the most desirable for securing sufficient amount of the valuable sun's rays for growing children. As long ago as 1924 the striking observation was made by Steenbock that many foods could become anti rachitic by irradiation with ultra violet light. The foods which have been successfully irradiated in368 clude a long list: numerous oils and fats, olive, cottonseed, linseed, corn and cocoanut oils, lard, oleomargarine, and butter but not mineral oil, cereal products, refined wheat flour, whole wheat flour, shredded wheat, cream of wheat, oatmeal, cornmeal, cornstarch, meat, milk, whole or dry, various vegetables and orange juice. The potency of egg yolk was increased from ten to twenty times. Sugar is almost the only natural food for which attempted irradiation has been unsuccessful. The exact value that irradiated food will accomplish for public health is difficult to foretell. The possible value seems very great. If commercial companies exploit this valuable agency to such an extent as to bring up the cost of food unnecessarily, irradiated foods may not prove of great value. Sufficient amount of research work has not been done, to determine how long the foods will remain activated or the ultimate effect on the body. Future research work is needed to give more definitely the value of irradiated foods.
The most concentrated source of vitamin D that has been discovered at the present time is activated ergosterol. The commercial form of activated ergosterol is viosterol. Viosterol is 100 times more potent in vitamin D than standardized cod liver oil. Many physicians are using it as the best means of prevention of rickets and glowing accounts of the rapidity and reliability of its action is found in clinical reports. Dr. Alfred Hess has called irradiated ergosterol one of the "most remarkable of specifics"; other physicians have pronounced it "the therapeutic agent of choice" both for rickets and tetany. The reason for this enthusiasm over activated ergosterol is the fact that because of its tremendous potency the dose needed is very small, the usual dose is 10 drops. This advantage is apparent with children whose digestive systems are weak and who therefore cannot tolerate larger quantities of fat. Such children, if they have rickets, often cannot take as much cod liver oil as they need to effect a cure as healing takes place slowly. They improve very quickly on irradiated ergosterol. Even the normal infant, especially if he is growing rapidly, may benefit by the use of viosterol, since occasionally the standard dose of cod liver oil, (1 teaspoon three times a day), fails to protect him from at least a mild degree of rickets. More than three teaspoons of oil a day is usually not considered wise for any baby and, according to Hess not more than from six to eight teaspoons can be given under any circumstances. A more concentrated form of the vitamin D is needed for prevention as well as the cure of rickets. This may be found in the form of 5 D or super D cod liver oil. This means that this cod liver oil contains five times as much vitamin D as standardized cod liver oil and the same amount of vitamin A. Both vitamin A and D are needed in large amounts for young children, in protection from rickets and the promotion of normal growth. 5 D cod liver oil contains both of these vitamins in the necessary amounts for protection and cure of rickets, promotion of normal growth as well as help in building up the child's resistance to disease.
Recently, but especially in the last year the use of cod liver oil as a prophylactic agent in the treatment of rickets has been almost entirely supplanted by viosterol. In an article published in the American Medical Journal in May, 1930, the question is raised, is cod liver oil or viosterol the best prophylactic agent for rickets? Clinical observations were made on 100 infants given cod liver oil and on 123 infants given viosterol. The following results were found: Rickets was prevented in 97% of the 100 cases that received cod liver oil. Three teaspoonfuls daily of cod liver oil were given. In the children receiving viosterol, rickets was prevented in 77 per cent of the 123 cases, showing that 23 per cent of these children developed clinical signs of rickets. The dose of viosterol was 10 drops daily. These results show that viosterol in present recommended dosage is less effective in prevention of rickets than cod liver oil. Yet there is no question but what viosterol is a valuable agent in the prevention of rickets. But the question, can viosterol supplant the use of cod liver oil entirely, will have to be answered by further research work.
In order to protect every infant from rickets and to insure the proper development of the bones and teeth, the child should receive sufficient amount of vitamin D. Cod liver oil during the winter with sun baths during the summer are the best methods of protection. Ultra violet treatments and viosterol can be used in special cases. Adults need some vitamin D, but not in as large amounts as the growing child. The best sources of vitamin D for adults are egg yolks, sun, ultra violet light irradiation and cod liver oil. Let children have the benefits derived from sun baths and the regular use of cod liver oil which helps both in prevention of rickets and thus builds up their resistance to colds and other infectious diseases.