In my heart there is a yearning, to express my thoughts of love,
Women's Vacation Camps in Idaho By Amy Brown Lyman
Any project designed primarily to benefit humanity challenges our interest. Any movement which tends to develop individuals, broaden their vision, improve their standards and raise their lives to higher levels deserves commendation. Any undertaking which makes provision for people to be lifted periodically above their daily routine to a vantage point from which they can view their work and problems from different angles, contributes to human progress.
People on the whole live more or less routine lives, working in their particular grooves with eyes down and backs bent attending so closely to their own immediate tasks that they realize little of what is going on generally or how work similar to, or identical with their own, is being done. Neither do they have the time or inclination to envision their own net results. While such close attention to one's own work is indeed necessary to accomplishment, still the worker, if he is to succeed abundantly, should rise above his daily tasks often enough to take stock, to get inspiration and broader knowledge of his particular job, and to get new vision.
When Miss Marion Hepworth, State Home Demonstration leader of the University of Idaho Extension Division conceived the idea of summer vacation camps for farm women in Idaho she struck a keynote which resounded throughout the state and brought forth hearty response and approval. It was evident at the outset to the University authorities and to the University patrons that the project was sound and would be productive of good. And no one has been disappointed. The work has won the admiration and respect of educators and the deep appreciation and gratitude of the several thousand women who avail themselves yearly of the opportunity the summer vacation camps have afforded.
Seven years ago in 1925 the work was started at Starkey Hot Springs and soon thereafter camps were established at various points in the state designed to reach the whole population. There are six camps in all located at the following scenic places: Bear Lake, Lava Hot Springs, Ponds' Inn, Hauser Lake, Winchester, and Starkey Hot Springs. The attendance each season has been excellent and has included hundreds of Relief Society women; but the year 1931 was the banner year, with a combined registration of 5,991 farm women representing a larger number of counties than ever before. In addition there were a great many visitors both men and women, and this in spite of the general depression, drought, and hard times which farmers have been facing for a number of years. Several of the camps this season were honored with the presence of Mrs. Ben Ross, wife of the Governor of Idaho, once a farm woman herself, and now an ardent supporter of this organization.
Regarding the object and nature of the movement, Miss Hepworth enthusiastically explains that it is a project in adult education and part of the Home Demonstration Program of Idaho with a threefold purpose—educational, inspirational, and recreational. It is not as some might suppose an outing for mere pleasure. It is designed for the special benefit of the homemakers of the state; to bring to them up-to-date information on the leading questions of the day; to teach them to study and think and also to play; to help to inspire in them a greater love and appreciation for their own work as well as for some of the fine things in music, art and literature; and to give them an opportunity to discuss their own problems both formally and informally.
The visitor to the vacation camp is impressed with the earnestness of all concerned—of those who have come to take part in the program, and of those who have come to register for the work. Each camp has a local committee appointed by Miss Hepworth consisting of a woman from each county included in a given district. These committees work under the direction of Miss Hepworth and her assistants, the District Home Demonstration Agents, and are given the opportunity to cooperate with the state department in making all the plans for the three days institute or outing. The committee members are experienced women who have shown qualities of leadership in their home counties. They assist in all local arrangements beginning many months ahead of the set dates. During the encampment they act as hostesses, taking care of the registration bureau and of other details incident to getting settled. They are also given an opportunity to suggest both subjects and speakers for the program. The work could not succeed so abundantly without these local lieutenants, with their interest, their influence, and their following.
The Home Demonstration Agents consist of a group of six young, well-trained college women, specialists in the field of Home Economics, each of which has responsibility under Miss Hepworth for one of the Camps. In their year round work throughout the state they keep constantly in mind the summer camp work and each vies with the other in keeping up and promoting general interest and in trying to think up new and interesting features. These agents are the Misses Vivian Minyard, Sara Sumsion, Julia Pond, Helen Abbot, Leatha Christensen and Genevieve Hunter. The whole scheme for the project is sound and most excellent. With Miss Hepworth at the head, assisted by her district workers and her local camp committees, there is a set-up which would be hard to surpass. Not only is there good feeling throughout, but intense interest and devotion to the work and it is no wonder that this gifted leader has won the title, "General Hepworth."
The camp program is varied, consisting of lectures, demonstrations and entertainments. It ranges in subject matter from lectures in art and literature, child psychology and rural sociology, to the importance of using Idaho lamb and other Idaho products, and to demonstrations in cooking and serving. After a talk on how to make the most of one's clothing with emphasis on style, suitability, materials, etc., no bulky woman listener would ever dare to wear large plaids again, and no thin tall woman to indulge in vertical stripes. After a talk on social relationships and on the art of adjusting no listener would ever feel quite the same about race or religious prejudice or about using temper tantrums or similar devices as a means of winning a victory. And after hearing all about the economic importance to Idaho of using Idaho lamb and other products, and after seeing them cooked and garnished so beautifully there is no doubt but that these articles have been used since that time by everybody upon both week days and holidays in Idaho.
The program includes, also, entertainments both simple and dignified. Swimming, boating and bonfire parties are outstanding among recreational features. Not the least enjoyable, by any means, of the institute's numerous activities are the informal periods which cover several hours of the day when there is no set program and the campers may visit one another, indulge in conversation, and exchange personal views; or if they prefer it they may rest and relax alone in quiet. Another interesting period is the bedtime hour when each little camp group gathers for a few moments for more intimate conversation to sum up the lessons of the day, and to say a parting word for the night.
Among the Camp speakers are representatives of the church, university, the club, the service organizations; and in addition those from the ordinary walks of life. The L. D. S. Church has been represented on each yearly program by members of the General Authorities, and members of the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations. The Federal Children's Bureau was represented in 1931, as well as the White House Conference. Local talent is also used and many of the choicest musical numbers and entertaining features are furnished by the communities surrounding the camps.
The closing camp session invariably has programmed brief responses from delegates from the various counties represented, on the value of the camp, and this feature always proves to be one of the high spots of the conventions. It is most inspiring to hear their fine summaries of the work and what it has meant to them and what it will mean to their communities. We quote a paragraph from the address given by the oldest enrolled member at the 1931 Lava Hot Springs Camp—our dear co-worker Mrs. Sarah H. Farr, 80 years old, counselor to Mrs. Dicy W. Henderson of Portneuf Stake, who has not yet missed attending her district camp. "Many women, especially on the farm, know so little of life outside of the home environment. Our vision is limited to the farm accumulation and after a while we become part of that accumulation. I think that sometimes we farm women stay around that farm we so dearly love and keep in that same old groove till we also have just about 'tuk rut' and will have to be pried out before the 'ruts' become too deeply 'sot.' One of the levers which can be forcibly used to pry us out is the Woman's Encampment, the spirit of which is carried back each year to our home communities where our friends and neighbors feel its inspiring and refining influence; and each succeeding year many new ones are attracted to the work and are found enrolled in the cause."