Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
June—Blue sky over a rose-colored world. Clouds highest up in air. Bright plumed birds their matings sing through all the scented woods. Rare indeed is a day in June.
Julia C. Lathrop, first director of the Child welfare bureau of the federal department of labor, who died last April, will long be remembered, not alone for her work in the children's bureau, but as a pioneer in the scientific care of the problems of childhood and her remarkable services in behalf of mothers and children which became world-wide. From her friends in the bureau a beautiful tribute says "Mrs. Lathrop filled her office with rare understanding and prescience. Her life is an integral part of the development of Hull House, the establishment of the first Juvenile court and the first child-guidance clinic, the evolution of modern methods of state welfare administration"—truly a friend in need and deed. A nation suffers when such a woman dies.
Anne Morgan has been given the rank of commander in the French Legion of honor in recognition of her services towards the restoration of the Chateau de Blerancourt. It is now a Franco-American Museum.
Madam Schroeder, of Vienna, has given most of her fortune to help out the exchequer of the Austrian government. Truly a loyal patriot.
Mrs. Mary G. Coulter, of Ogden, Utah, state representative in 1902 and prominent clubwoman has been given a diploma by the French Academy of History and a life membership in the Societe Academique d'Histoire Internationale. Mrs. Coulter, well-versed in International law rendered helpful service in post war days.
"Waterless Mountain," by Laura Adams Armer, an Indian legend, was awarded the Newberry Medal as the most distinguished contribution to children's literature in 1931.
"The Good Earth," by Pearl S. Buck, won the Pulitzer prize for 1931 as the best novel published by an American author. "Shadows On the Rocks" and "The Good Earth" are the only two novels by women listed among the fifty best books of the year by the American Library Association.
"Land," a short story by a Utah girl, Miss Wanda Burnett, is to be included in O'Brien's collection of the best short stories of 1932.
Political Science, instead of "pink teas," is the popular diversion this year among social leaders. Many prominent society women are already campaigning for favorite candidates.
Senator Caraway of Arkansas held the gavel over the United States Senate one day this session. She has announced that she will be out for re-election this fall.