CONTINUED.

	After having made this preface to my
short narrative, I will introduce myself to
the readers of the EXPONENT, by telling
them I was born in the first year of the
19th century, (and must confess myself as
being proud of my Yankee origin,) in one
of the quaintest and most primitive little
villages near the seashore opposite Long
Island, in the State of Connecticut. ten
miles only from the beautiful city of New
Haven. The family from which I was de-
scended, ranked as one of the oldest in the
country.
	I was the eldest child, and grew up in
an atmosphere of love and tenderness. I
received all the advantages of education,
such as young ladies usually enjoyed at
that time, and was taught dancing among
other things, which, in the religious world
in that day, was not considered orthodox.
My parents were not members of any
church, and they wished me to enjoy life,
and thought dancing added grace and easi-
ness to one's manner.
	My father had no sympathy with any of
the priests of the day, although he was
honest, moral and upright in all his acts.
In looking back over the long vista of years
which have intervened since that time,
the[-]e is nothing connected with my child-
hood and early girlhood upon which I dwell
with more satisfaction than the companion-
ship of my father. My mother was of
a delicate, nervous temperament, and with
household duties and younger children to
occupy her, she allowed me to choose my
own society, and I clung more closely to my
father. Shortly after I became of age a
new era of my life opened, and the whole
current of my fortune changed. I was sepa-
rated from my parents, and through a com-
plication of circumstances which followed,
was debarred from ever seeing my mother
again.
	A maiden aunt of mine, very independ-
ent and self-reliant, concluded to go to
Ohio and make a home. It was then a new
country, comparatively, and to undertake
so long a journey was almost as remarkable
then as to go round the world would be
now. She entreated my parents to allow
me to go with her, and after much inter-
ceding and many promises they at last con-
sented, realizing that she would be faithful
in her office as guardian and protector, and
knew her to be competent to act for herself
and her niece, and as she had property at
her own disposal, felt I would be well off
and should gain a new experience and see
something of the world.
	The journey was particularly pleasant,
the scenery upon the way was a rich feast
to me, who had never been far from home;
New Haven and the seashore were to my
mind beautiful indeed, but traveling over
this wonderful country was like the land of
enchantment.

[Column 2]
	We settled a few miles inland from Lake
Erie; the country was new and wild, which
added to its picturesqueness, and I was
happy in my new home and surroundings.
My beloved aunt was a true and affection-
ate friend to me, and had great influence
over me in molding my character and de-
veloping my strongest attributes. We were
sincerely attached to each other, and no
young girl ever had a wiser or more judi-
cious guardian than was this maiden aunt
to me. My father made up his mind to
come West, but circumstances not proving
propitious, and my mother not desiring to
change her residence, they concluded to
remain at the homestead.
	There is little occasion to dwell long upon
the incidents which subsequently trans-
pired previous to my becoming acquainted
with one who afterwards became my hus-
band. Suffice it to say he was a young man,
and had come out West to "seek his for-
tune." He had thrift and energy, and he
accumulated property faster than most of
his companions and associates. Indeed, he
became proverbial as being lucky in all his
undertakings. He had been trading at
Green Bay, buying furs and skins from the
Indians and trappers, for the Eastern mar-
ket, exchanging them for goods suitable
for the wants of the people in that locality:
In his travels to and from New York he
passed through the country where we re-
sided, and "we met by chance." became
attached to each other, and my aunt grant-
ing her full approval, we were married
after a courtship of reasonable length, as in
those days girls were not allowed to marry
without the lover paying court for a certain
length of time. Yet ours was strictly a
marriage of affection. Our tastes, our feel-
ings were congenial, and we were really a
happy couple, with bright prospects in
store. Our marriage was looked upon by
our relatives and friends, according to the
old Yankee phrase, as highly proper and
decidedly respectable.
			(To be continued.)


AN ASSOCIATION of women is being or-
ganized in Berlin, Prussia, to furnish free
medical advice for poor, sick women. Med-
icines will be furnished gratis. The phys-
icians who have offered their services to
this institution are the Misses Tiburtius
and Lehmus, doctors of medecine. These
ladies have studied at Zurich. The cousul-
tations will be given twice a week.—EX.

	WE HAVE upon our list of exchanges two
papers new to us, published by women, and
ably edited. "The Physiologist," by Sara
M. B. Chase, A. M. M. D., New York City,
is devoted more especially to the laws of
life and health, etc. "The Beacon of Pro-
gress," edited by Mary E. Haggart at In-
dianapolis, is a smaller paper now in its
second volume. It treats on the equality
of sex, universal suffrage, woman's ad-
vancement in business, education and poli-
tics, etc., in a fair and just manner. The
editor evidently is not afraid of Mormon
writings, as we notice she has reprinted
one of our editorials, for which favor we re-
turn our sincere thanks. We believe it is
the best policy to help each other, and that
in mutual help there is much strength.


