LITERATURE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

	In the past history of this people there was
little time or opportunity to bestow careful at-
tention upon educational interests. Many pe-
culiar circumstances induced this state of af-
fairs. Everything was new, crude, hard and
severe in this land of sage-brush and saleratus;
he people were compelled to labor constantly
for their maintenance, to secure shelter, food
and raiment, day by day; consequently the
finer faculties, the intellectual and spiritual
attributes were neglected, and had not the pro-
per nourishment, or stimulus.
	The Lord has blest his people in a wonderful
manner; prosperity has crowned their untiring
and energetic efforts, and they possess now, in
a great degree, the facilities and resources
through which they may obtain and give to
their children the advantages of a liberal edu-
cation. Parents should give this subject se-
rious thought, and while they are generously
allowing their children time and educational
advantages, that they may gain correct knowl-
edge of men and things, and become instructed
in all the branches of education that will pre-
pare them to be great, good and wise men and
women, watch carefully the manner in which
they spend their precious time, and the use
they make of these excellent opportunities.
	The world is full of books, magaz[-]nes, jour-
nals and newspapers, and they are not all good.
There is more trashy, cheap literature than
that which is pure and good; and there is a
powerful influence for evil in reading, and it is
not so perceptible at the time, perhaps, as
other evil influences, because of its silent pow-
er; but it is nevertheless as dangerous and as
much to be guarded against, and in our opinion
it is more difficult to detect.
	Mothers are neglectful in this matter, no
doubt it is for want of thought; some mothers
SEEM to be under the impression that if their
children read it keeps them out of evil associa-
tion, that it is a sort of safeguard, but books
and papers are companions, and they speak di-
rect to the heart in a language of silent power,
and they produce lasting impressions, and it is
just as essential that books and reading matter
should be carefully chosen as that other com-
panionship should.
	This subject has been lorcibly brought to our
mind very recently by seeing in the hands of
young ladies, in fact seeing them purchase,
such literature (if it can be so designated) as
should be gathered together and burned.
	The expression is often made "How can we
judge of a book unless we read it?" but our
opinion is that young people should take coun-
sel of older and wiser heads, be guided by the
judgment of persons of larger experience, even
though their school education had been limit-
ed, for all learning does not come from books,

[Column 2]
and the Spirit of God is a safer guide than all
the education of the world.
	We have written these few words to call the
attention of mothers, and teachers, and those
who have an influence with young people, to
this important subject. We have heard some-
where a remark like this: "Tell me what books
you have read and I will tell you what you
know." It is not the quantity of reading, but
the quality of it that should be considered;
and in our opinion it is much more injurious
to gather into the storehouse of the brain indi-
gestible and corrupt mental food, than to take
unsuitable food into the stomach; for the stom-
ach may be easier corrected, and the effect can
scarcely be as lasting. Some will say, O, I read
so and so for pastime, it goes in at one ear and
out at another, but we doubt very much that
it does not have an evil effect. At any rate, it
is a risk to run.
	If this people want the rising generation to
be intelligent, to be superior in their attain-
ments, to distinguish themselves in knowledge
and in science, then they should take heed
what they read and how their minds are dis-
ciplined.
	Some mothers are very careful in regard to
the clothing of their children, the selecting of
material, the manner of making up, but ut-
terly regardless of the books they purchase, or
read; whereas there is really no compa[-]ison
whatever between the two. The tendency of
immoral literature, and such as inculcates false
ideas of life and happiness, is vi[-]iating and 
weakening, and cannot be too strongly spoken
against and deprecated; and unless this course
is pursued, and persons of influence protest
against this pernicious and insidious power. it
will gain strong vantage ground even among
the children of the Saints. This is an evil
that is growing in this community, and if any
check can be put upon it, any restraining in-
fluence brought to bear in favor of good read-
ing, in favor of truth, it should be done.
Through the young people's organized associa-
tions a great deal has been done to improve
the mental and spiritual condition of the
young, but there is a vast amount of work yet
remains undone, and there is much apathy
and indifference where there should be activity
and diligence. Mothers and sisters, this is a
part of your work. Wake up to your duty, for
this is one part of your mission.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
