R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, July 20, was intensely interest-
ing, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding, Mrs. E.
B. Wells Sec'y. "pro. tem." The minutes
of the young ladies showed a marked im-
provement which is most encouraging, and
the speeches all seemed spirited and full of
light. President M. Isabella Horne, Coun-
selors S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith, Phebe
Wooodruff, and Mrs. Hannah T. King, Mrs. S.
M. Heywood, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, and Mrs.
E. B. Wells each addressed the meeting.
The subjects were the organizations of the
sisters, the good they had accomplished,
the future field open before them, home
duties, the training of children, decorum
in public meetings and especially the
House of God; night excursions, molding
of character, faith in sickness, the adminis-
tration of the ordinance for healing, the sick.
The "franchise," the coming election, wo-
man's duty on petitions, naturalization
papers, the Rochester Convention, the stor-
ing of grain, the raising of white beans,
the class of reading most suitable for the
young people of Zion, keeping the Sabbath
day holy, regarding the feelings of others,
home industries, and how we could best
promote them, and a great many other
points were spoken upon in an earnest and
impressive manner.

	General Retrenchment Meeting, Satur-
day Aug. 3, at the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, was well attended and very
interesting. Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding
and on the stand with her were Counselors
Miss Eliza R. Snow, B. W. Smith, S. M.
Kimball, Phebe Woodruff, and other promi-
nent sisters. Mrs. E. B. Wells, acting
Secretary. The President made opening
remarks upon the care of children during
the hot weather, exhorted mothers to be
careful about the food they give the child-
ren, and exposure to heat and draughts;
said she felt pleased with the movements
made recently for woman's advancement.
She felt the Lord had heard the cries of
his daughters and was blessing them. In
all great questions there was always more
or less opposition. Counselor E. R. Snow
was the next speaker, she had been absent
from three meetings and during that time
had visited the societies in many places;
she gave a short sketch of her travels and
meetings with the sisters, their organiza-
tions and the great work that was being ac-
complished little by little. Miss Snow said
wherever she had visited she had instruct-
ed the sisters to take out naturalization pa-
pers, those who were not citizens. Wo-
man's cause is man's cause there is no sep-
arating the two, but woman's work and 
man's work are different. God is at the
helm, and he chooses such instruments as
He sees fit to do His work; it is all one with
us, it is a universal interest. We can see
the sphere of man is extending and wo-
man's place is at the side of her husband,
as his counselor not dictator. Miss Snow
said during her journey whenever she
visited a new place, she told the people if
she knew the character of the women of
the place, she would know the state of so-
ciety; she entreated the sisters to read the
newspapers, and learn the condition and
needs of the country, what was going on
in the world, if the mothers were too busy
to read the news, let the children read to
them while they were at work, and keep
posted on all affairs of public interest; spoke
earnestly on the subject of storing grain

[Column 2]
and beans and preparing for a day of need,
said our motto should be "make hay while
the sun shines," and lay up our stores now
when there is an abundant harvest. Mrs.
Hannah T. King next addressed the meet-
ing; she remarked that Miss Snow's dis-
course was most excellent and ought to be
written word for word and published to the
world. She felt strengthened by it, and
that the spirit of the Lord was there, she
rejoiced in the sisters meetings; she felt
the women of this church had passed
through such experiences as had prepared
them to fill important positions. She also
felt that some of us had been called upon
lately to act in places that woman had nev-
er filled before. Whom the Lord loveth
He chasteneth, woman had been consider-
ed subordinate, but she felt was now mov-
ing forward and occupying a broader and
higher sphere. She would not arrogate to
herself the title of a woman's rights advo-
cate, but gloried in woman's capabilities:
bore testimony to the efficacy of the Gos-
pel to comfort at all times and through all
trials.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the relation
of woman to society, her influence for good
when properly directed, the necessity there
was of preserving an equal balance on all
subjects, not to be extreme, but to ask for
wisdom and use every means given us ju-
diciously; said there were many causes
which had induced the women of the
world to battle for the Suffrage and one of
these was intemperance. There was a 
spirit and influence now brought to bear in
the work women were doing, that was
scarcely understood, but she rejoiced in the
stand now being taken by women of judg-
ment and intelligence.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney said when we assem-
ble ourselves together we always feel bles-
sed and comforted, she felt there had been
a great deal of instruction given in the
proper course of improvement, "it will be
well for us all to take the noblest methods,
all have not the same capacity, if we listen
when we come here we will learn many
useful items. The training of our children
is of the most serious consequence. I
wish our girls could be better trained, many
of them. I do not like night excursions,
nor to see our girls hanging over the gate
post, such conduct is beneath them, but we
cannot any of us walk the perfect mark,
I expect to miss it many times, but I in-
tend to keep on trying, I hope that we will
so faithfully serve "our Father" that we
will be fully satisfied with our reward."
Pres. Horne said she would like to mention
the election, it was to take place on Mon-
day next, and we should all go to the polls
and vote that were legal voters, and had
been registered under the new election
law, and maintain our own institutions; "our
votes count just as much as those of our
brethren, and we are becoming a power in
the land; this reminds us of what Bro. D.
H. Wells once said in one of our meetings,
he said "the sisters are becoming quite a
power, and for my part I am not afraid to
trust them." These meetings are of
great benefit to the sisters; they obtain
through this medium much spiritual
strength as well as knowledge on a variety
of subjects which if properly applied will
aid them in every day life, as well as help
them to attain to an exaltation in the fu-
ture.

