	SCIPIO, MILLARD CO., UTAH,
	August 2d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The Relief Society in this place was or-
ganized July 29, 1870, and was in a quiet,
humble and meek condition.  The mem-
bers endeavored to assist the poor and dis-
tressed, and also donated means to bring
our poor brethren and sisters f[-]om their 
native lands here to Zion; and have like-
wise donated liberally, considering our
means, towards the erection of the St.
George Temple.  Mrs. Sophrona Martin
had been the President from the first or-
ganization of the Society, but at our An-
nual meeting, in 1877, she resigned her
office, and Mrs. Elizabeth Yates was elected
in her stead.  The officers and members are
energetic in the discharge of their duties,

[Column 2]
and in accordance with the wishes of our
late lamented President Brigham Young,
are storing up grain for a day of famine.
Last year the President called on the sis-
ters of the Society to go into the harvest
field to gather up the golden heads of grain,
that would otherwise have been destroyed.
The sisters responded heartily to the call,
and children from four years old up to
eighty-nine went in the field to glean, and 
I think if you could have seen us you
would have thought we were in earnest;
this season we calculate to perform the 
same labor.  The sisters have purchased a 
city lot, paying one hundred dollars for it;
we have planted it with two hundred and 
fifty mulberry trees, and calculate procur-
ing more as quickly as possible.  We ex-
pect this fall to erect a good and substantial
building for the purpose of holding our
meetings in and storing away our grain.
The plan was resolved by the sisters, that
straw should be procured for the purpose of 
braiding and manufacturing men and boy's
hats; also that we would procure cloth to 
make overalls, pants and shirts.  We have
also been making quilts, knitting stockings,
crocheting tidies and lace, etc.
	Our Annual Meeting was held July 29th,
the officers were re-elected as follows:
	Elizabeth Yates, President,
	Lorinda Thompson,
	Mary Croft,
["Counselors" is typed next to "Lorinda Thompson" and "Mary Croft"]
	Mary Wasden,
	Eliza M. Wasden,
["Secretaries" is typed next to "Mary Wasden" and "Eliza M. Wasden"]
	Annie Brown, Treasurer.
	Our Society numbers one hundred and 
twenty-one.  Our Financial Report from
July 29, 1877, is as follows:
Donated to the Society..............$73 42
Disbursed to the poor................ 71 77
Have now in treasury, in quilts and 
	sundries.................................... 19 46
Grain stored amounting to......465 bu. 31 lbs.
	There are several copies of the EXPONENT
taken by the members of the Society here,
and the instructions are read with great in-
terest.  Your sisters in the Gospel, etc.,
	MARY WASDEN, Sec'y,
	ELIZA M. WASDEN, Ass't Sec'y.

