		BUSINESS MEETING.

	Thursday forenoon, July 10, a prelimi-
nary meeting of the National Woman Suf-
frage Association was held in the Unitarian
church, North Fitzhugh street. The as-
semblage comprised quite a number of the
representative women of America, beside
a goodly gathering in the rear body of the
church, comprising several well-known
Rochester men and women. When the
meeting was called to order by the presi-
dent, Mrs. Clemence S. Lozier, M. D., of
New York, the following named ladies were
recognized among those in attendance: Lu-
cretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan
B. Anthony, Belva A. Lockwood, attorney-
at-law, Washington, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Mrs. Dr. Arter, Mrs. C. S. Lozier, president
of the Woman's Homeopathic Medical Col-
lege of New York, Lavinia C. Dundore,
Mrs. Jarvis, Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith,
Mrs. Lloyd, Mrs. Gardner, Mrs. Slocum, of
New York, Phoebe Couzins, St. Louis. Mrs.
M. W. Lois, Mrs Robinson and daughter
of Boston, Mrs. Plumb, of New York, Mrs.
Stebbens, of Detroit, Mrs. Spencer, Mrs.
Senator Sargent, and Mrs. Dr. Winslow, of
Washington, Amy Post, Sarah Pugh, of Pa.,
Lucy N. Coleman, and Dr. Amelia Ray-
mond, of Syracuse, Mrs. Fray, of Toledo,
Martha Schofield, of South Carolina, and
Mrs. Thompson, of Indiana.
	Mrs. Lozier, who presided, called the
meeting to order, and after advising that
the addresses be short and to the point, that
above all things the members keep cool,
introduced Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, of
Washington, the chairman of the commit-
tee. 
	In giving a "resume" of the recent move-
ment in Washington during the last session
of Congress, Mrs. Spencer said:
	"The work of the National Association
in securing petitions to the 45th Congress
began Jan. 19, 1877, with an empty treasu-
ry. They were encouraged from every
section of the country, by everything else,
except money. Miss Anthony sent word
from the West, Address every postoffice in
the United States: To the friends of Wo-
man Suffrage, Care of the Post Master.
How could it be done? Her appeals to
friends of the cause at last brought the
means and two-thirds of the great pro-
gramme was carried out, but owing to finan-
cial hindrances, so late that only forty thou-
sand friends of the cause were reached.
That this was not a fair representation of
the friends of the cause was indicated by
the fact that in the State of Michigan alone,
men only voting, forty thousand votes were
cast for a woman snffrage amendment to
the State constitution. Mrs. Spencer said
that with one or two exceptions the Sena-
tors and Representatives vied with each
other in courtesy to the petitions, and
many of them improved the various occa-
sions to earnestly commend the question of
the Sixteenth Amendment to the consider-
ation of the committee and the Senate.
The reports which had been circulated to
the contrary were unfair, untrue and dis-
couraging to the patient, faithful workers
all over the land. She said Senator Wad-
leigh's hesitation and delay in making a
report on behalf of his committee was that
he could not find a respectable argument
against it, though he sought for it diligently.
As it stands, it is so altogether frivolous
and inconsistent that she asked him to or-
der a million copies printed that the friends

[Column 2]
of woman suffrage might circulate it as a
campaign document."
	After interesting and eloquent speeches
from Mrs. M. W. Thompson, of Indianapo-
lis, Mrs. Phebe Cousins, of St. Louis, Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, of New Jersey,
Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith, of North Caro-
lina, Miss Anthony moved that the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Lozier, now appoint the differ-
ent Committees. The motion was sus-
tained, and Mrs. Lozier announced the
Committees: To Nominate Officers, Com-
mittee on Resolutions, Committee on Fi-
nance, Auditing Committe. Adjourned to
4 o'clock.
		AFTERNOON MEETING.
	The closeness and warmth of the atmos-
phere gave ample opportunity for the ex-
ercise of that common right and privilege,
the wielding of fans. Though this oppor-
tunity was generally improved, it might
be added that the plain yet fresh and invit-
ing appearance which the Quaker element
gave to it made the congregation appear as
cool as it was free from agitation.
	The president, Mrs. Lozier, again occu-
pied the chair, and by her the meeting was
called to order.
	Sara A. Spencer, from the nominating
committee, then read the list of officers.
	A separate vote was taken for the presi-
dent, Mrs. Stanton being unanimously
elected.
	The other officers were voted for collec-
tively.
	Mrs. Ellen Clarke Sargent, wife of the
Senator from California, then presented her
report as treasurer of the association for the
past eighteen months. The receipts from
members residing in the various States and
Territories, were read in the alphabetical
order of the States and Territories. The
report was adopted.
	After the business of the meeting had
been transacted, Susan B. Anthony made a
few remarks, alluding to the advisability
and necessity of circulating newspapers
through the country which should be ex-
ponents of the cause of woman suffrage.
She emphasized the importance of the as-
sociation having one recognized exponent
or organ, in the shape of a newspaper. As
such an exponent of woman suffrage she
warmly recommended the "National Citi-
zen and Ballot Box," edited by Matilda
Joslyn Gage, at Syracuse.—Ex.


