		NOTES AND NEWS.

	ONE OF the commendable features of the
Rochester Convention, (and it is one which
should stand as a precedent) was that the
entire convention rose in honor of Mrs.
Lucretia Mott, as a tribute of their high
esteem and just appreciation of one now
bending under the weight of years, whose
white hairs and beautiful smile, with her
quiet Quaker demeanor and cordial appre-
ciation of others, was a potent power in
that great assembly.
	THE "WOMAN'S Journal" of Aug. 3,
contains an article entitled "International
Manifesto." It was signed by Marie Mal-
liani, Countess Traversari. It appeals in
the strongest and most eloquent terms to
the women of Europe to send representa-
tives to the International Congress. She
alludes to the solid support this Congress
would have in distinguished scientists, il-
lustrious and meritorious authors, senators,
deputies and municipal counselors of Paris.
She says, "A man known in two worlds, a
historical personage, whose writings and
sayings have long sustained the thesis that
the inferiority of woman with regard to
civil rights is a manifest injustice, has ac-
cepted the honorary presidency. He is
ready to prove that the social reform which
he seeks for woman (the being who is civ-
illy a minor and morally a slave, as he so
well expressed it) is an object earnestly de-
sired and profoundly felt by him, and that
he is ready to break a lance in its cause,
even as he has broken so many against all
sorts of oppression; injustice egotism and
abuse of power."
	That man is Victor Hugo. The writer
appeals to Madame Maria Goegg of Gene-
va, President of the International Associa-
tion for the Defence of Woman's Rights.
She explains "the five Swiss codes which
put the Swiss women on a footing with im-
beciles, and married women below the
grade of minors, will be a spur to them."
	In another paragraph she says: Sisters—
Germans, Spaniards, Portuguese, Holland-
ers, Russians, daughters of Scandinavia
and Denmark! honor us with your pres-
ence, assist us with your councils, aid us in
your inspirations. Towards the close of
this brilliant letter she calls upon the noble
supporters of the scientific emancipation of
Woman, students of generous Zurich which
gathered together the flowers of female in-
telligence, while the narrow jealousy * *
shut the doors of English and Scotch Uni-
versities in your faces do not fail to come
and rejoice with us at the triumph of a
great philosophic idea, sustained by Maz-
zini, Stuart Mill, Lord Beaconsfield, Jacob
Bright, Fawcett, Trevalyan, Courtney,
Legouve, Emile Girardin and many others
she enumerates, of distinguished men and
women.
	MISS ABAGAIL Hadassah Smith, one of
the famous Smith sisters of Glastonbury,
Conn., who practically protested against
"taxation without representation," depart-
ed this life July 23d, eighty-two years of

[Column 2]
age. There were five sisters but none of
them ever married; Julia Eveline is the
only one  living, and she is eighty-six.
Miss Julia is a literary woman and has dis-
tinguished herself by translating the Bible
from the original Hebrew and Greek. Miss
Abby is said to have been the business
manager of the household, and her loss
will be most keenly felt by her sister Julia,
who always counseled with her on all sub-
jects of importance. The funeral was char-
acteristic of the family eccentricities. The
Hartford Post says *  * "The services at
the funeral were very simple. A gentle-
man, an old friend of the family, read a
part of the 6th chapter of St. John and the
latter part of 1st Corinthians, these chap-
ters having been read at all funerals in the
family. No prayer was made, Julia's relig-
ious views being similar to those of her
father and mother which were, that minis-
ters were of no use, and that the system
that maintains them is entirely wrong. To
pay for having the Gospel preached—to
have men fit themselves for the pulpit for
the purpose of earning their bread and
butter by it, which in the majority of cases
is  the truth, and which is simply making
merchandise of the Gospel—these things
they maintained were disastrous to all true
religion. Julia's father gave up his pulpit
after having preached five years, his con-
science not allowing him to preach any
longer. He said the whole theological sys-
tem was upheld by money, take that away
and it would fall flat. And so in accord-
ance with these original and sensible ideas,
the family have worshiped in their own
peculiar way, and kept their religion a pri-
vate, sacred affair between themselves and
God, claiming that no hireling preacher
should come between them, and their own
individual interpretation of the Gospel.
And so none of the common ceremonies
and no prayers were said, save the silent
prayers of the lone woman and those who
sympathized with her. After the chapter
was read, Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
made some very appropriate remarks, and
the quiet sleeper was borne to her long
home."
	The sisters Julia and Abby, it is said,
were strongly attached to each other, and
Miss Julia will be very lonely, but she will
have the sympathy of a great multitude of
friends. These sisters have done much by
their persistent resistance of paying taxes
to rouse others to a sense of the injustice of
woman's being taxed and having no vote
and no voice in making the laws by which
she must be governed.


[Column 1]
