EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a short sketch of a Royal visit
to our isolated home might be of interest
to some of the readers of the EXPONENT,
I forward the following. Her Majesty
Queen Kapiolani, arrived here just at the
close of our morning services. Her design
was to reach here in time for our meeting,
but on account of the illness of one of the
party she was detained. Her attendants
consisted of her sister Pooloku, Col. Judd,
and Miss Pitman, with a number of servants
all bearing some big title pertaining to the
Palace household, such as cup bearer, cham-
bermaid, steward, etc. She was making a
tour around the Island for pleasure, and in
the interests of the Hui Hoola Lahui (Re-
lief Society.) We bade them welcome in
an easy manner, leaving out no doubt many
of the court titles usually applied to people
holding such positions, which appeared to
have the effect of making them feel at
home. At 1 o'clock p. m. a messenger ar-
rived to tell her Majesty the people were
assembled ready to receive and hear her
instructions. We all walked to the meet-
ing house which was filled to overflowing,
anxiously waiting her arrival; as she en-
tered, the people arose to their feet, the
choir singing a song of welcome composed

[Column 2]
for the occasion. The house was nicely
decorated with evergreens, with appropri-
ate mottoes on the walls, and a beautiful
crown composed of ferns just over her Maj-
esty's seat. The meeting being opened,
she arose and read her speech, which was
short but to the point, urging the people to
continue in the good works of administering
to the afflicted and destitute, gave some
good advice in regard to the management
of the society, disbursements of means, etc
Col. Judd followed, spoke of the prosperity,
union and contentment of the people here;
thought much credit was due to the foreign
Elders; after which Elders Molen and Rich-
ards occupied a few minutes each, in sup-
port of the Queen's instructions, eulogised
her in her work of charity among the peo-
ple. 
	After returning to the house the natives
were permitted to shake hands with her
Majesty and say "aloha;" many of the old-
er ones who had not entirely forgotten their
ancient habits of showing deference to
their nobles, approached her on their knees,
or with heads almost bowed to the ground;
while the more enlightened ones only
showed due respect. This over, we all,
(the Queens party and members of the Mis-
sion) sat down to the table and partook of a 
plain but hearty dinner. The Queen is a
nice looking woman, very affable and kind,
but not loquacious. Her sister, Pooloku, is
more of a lively turn, appears to enjoy a
good joke and quite as ready to take as give
one. Miss Pitman has traveled considera-
bly in the U. S., is well informed and quite
a talker; she visited S. L. City not long ago,
and is full of praise and admiration of that
place and the people.
	By previous invitation they were the
guests of Bro. Kaleohano where they re-
paired in the evening. They felt so much
at home their stay was prolonged two days.
	The natives flocked around them by hun-
dreds, and did all in their power to make
them comfortable. We rode up in the
mountains with them, gathered ferns, and
lunched under the boughs of the evergreen
trees, by the side of the beautiful cool
stream of water that sinks long before it
reaches the parched cane fields below.
	They were surprised at the number of
children compared with other places they
had visited; and judging by remarks she
made to some of our natives, she was con-
vinced that our Elders were doing all that
could be done towards carrying out the
King's motto "save and increase the na-
tion." The feeling of hatred and persecu-
tion against our people has but little space
in the hearts of the native population, only
as it is instilled into them by hireling
Priests; but the straight forward course of
our Elders has done much towards dispell-
ing prejudice. The members of the mis-
sion are all in tolerable health.
	The drouth on this side of the Island
still continues, and to add to this calamity,
the "Peluas" (an army worm,) has swept
over the face of the country and taken
every green thing near the shore, except
some of the cane which has become so
toughened by drouth that their voracious
stomachs could not digest it.
	The Relief Society held their third An-
nual Festival Meeting to-day, which was
really a credit to our native sisters; they
were all dressed in white and made a
grand appearance in the procession. They
seemed to be filled with the spirit of the
Gospel, and from their own earnings they
feasted some two hundred persons, which
is no small matter these hard times; they
have done much towards administering to
the poor and needy of this place; and not-

[Column 3]
withstanding their many imperfections
which are the effects of surrounding cir-
cumstances, my heart leads me to say,
God bless them.
	Your sister,
