THE MEMORIAL.

	The following memorial was presented in
Senate and House, June 15, by Senator
Terry and Speaker Randall.
	"To the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States in Congress as-
sembled.
	"Whereas, The acknowledged errors,
discrepancies and incompleteness of the
ninth census render it an unsatisfactory and
unreliable record of the population, wealth,
industry and physical, mental and moral
condition of the American people, and,
	"Whereas, The home and woman as a
Housekeeper have no place in the report,
only the occupations called 'gainful' being
noted, and more than twelve millions of
American women being overlooked as la-
borers, or producers, are left out in com-
mo[-] with those pursuing disreputable em-
ployments, and not even incidentally named
as in any wise affecting the causes of in-
crease or decrease of population or wealth,
and,
	"Whereas, Gross errors in enumerating
the births, ages, diseases and deaths of


children, are the inevitable result of the
natural barriers in the way of men as col-
lectors of social and vital statistics, who
frequently obtain information, in the lan-
guage of the report, from 'fathers, nurses,
servants, and unsympathetic fellow-board-
ers,' and
	"Whereas, There is obvious justice and
propriety in the employment of intelligent
women to collect vital statistics concerning
women and children; therefore,
	"We pray your Honorable body in enact-
ing a law providing for the taking of the
Tenth census to make provision for the
more careful and just enumeration of wo-
men as laborers and producers; for a record
of the wages of men and women in all oc-
cupations; for a record of causes of pauper
ism, vagrancy, vice, crime, insanity, idiocy,
blindness, deformity and disease; for the
enumeration of all men and women en-
gaged in disreputable occupations; for full
statistics concerning all reformatory insti-
tutions; and
	"We further pray that you will enact
such laws, or amendments, as may be re-
quisite to secure the employment of a fair
ratio of suitable women as collectors of the
Centennial census.
	KATE M. DAGGET, President of Associa-
tion for Advancement of Women.
	Secretary, MARY F. EASTMEN, Mass.
	Treasurer, HENRIETTE S. Y. WOLCOTT,
Mass."
	Auditors, Vice-Presidents, and Directors
number many ladies of distinction from
various states, some of the most earnest
and devoted writers and workers in all that
is elevating and calculated to benefit men
and women. We noticed the names of
Abby W. May, Sarah Andrews Spencer,
Antoinnette Brown Blackwell, Elizabeth
K. Churchill, Prof. Rachel L. Bodily.


For the EXPONENT.
