HOME AFFAIRS.

	REPORTS RECEIVED and laid over for publica-
tion from Spring City, Heber City, Manti,
and Kingston. Correspondence from May-
field, Clarkston, Honeyville, Goshen, St.
Charles.

	DIED, IN the 13th Ward, S. L. City, of con-
sumption of the bowels, after an illness of
little more than two weeks, Launcelot William,
infant son of Dr. William and Ellen B Fergu-
son, M. D. Deceased was born April 27, 1878,
and was three months and eighteen days old
when he died. We condole with the parents
of this little one in their sad bereavement.
Funeral will take place at the residence of the
parents to-day, Aug. 15, at 4 o'clock.

	MISS ELIZA R. Snow and Mrs. E. Davis
have been making a tour in the Northern set-
tlements, in the interest of Relief Societies
and Young Ladies' Associations, holding meet-
ings at Mendon, Hyrum, Wellsville and other
places, stimulating and encouraging the sisters
in home industries in home education, and ex-
horting them to good works generally. It is
expected they will be in Ogden to-day, attend

[Column 2]
the Conference there, and then proceed to Por-
terville, in Morgan Co.

	THERE WILL be a two day's Conference of
Weber Co. Relief Society, commencing to day;
held in the Tabernacle at Ogden. This will be
the first Woman's Conference held for two
days. It is expected that there will be an un-
usually large gathering from adjacent towns,
and representative women from Salt Lake
City and other places will attend. Reports of
the condition of all the branches of the Relief
Society in the Weber Stake of Zion will be
read. The Young Ladies' Association will
combine with them on this occasion

	CONSIDERABLE HAS been said through our
columns on the subject of foreigners taking
out naturalization papers, so as to become citi-
zens. In Utah, where women have the "fran-
chise," it is necessary that women should be
naturalized as well as men. We would say, for
the benefit of those who may not be informed
on this subject, that if the person desiring to
become a citizen emigrated previous to 18 years
of age, and has been a resident in the United
States five years, and in the Territory of Utah
six months, then she can take out full papers at
once, by substantiating these facts with two
witnesses and being sworn to that effect. We
would urge upon the sisters who have not acted
in this matter to delay no longer; those who
have to take out two sets of papers must wait
two years after taking out the first before they
can vote; though they can take up land, but
can obtain no patent from government.

	WEDNESDAY EVENING, Aug. 7, we attended
the meeting of the Young Ladies' Association
of the 8th Ward, Mrs. Mary Leaver presiding.
We were pleased with the manner in which
the meeting was conducted. Excellent re-
marks were made by several sisters. It is
truly encouraging to hear the young sisters
speak understandingly and with eas[-], as did
Miss Agnes Pickett at that time. Mrs. Eliza-
b[-]th Thomas, President of Y L. A. of the 13th
Ward, addressed the meeting for a short time,
and said many good things to the young sis-
ters. We feel it would be well if the presi-
dents and members of Associations would visit
each other frequently, and many good ideas
might thus be interchanged, which would re-
sult in good. Too much cannot be done to
stimulate the young people in cultivating their
precious talents. Sisters, you who are older
and wiser in experience, visit the young ladies'
meetings, you will benefit them and be blest
yourselves by so doing.

	WE HAVE received "Woman's Words" for
August. It is an excellent number, containing
many notices of women and their efficient la-
bors in the cause of Suffrage, of education in
the various associations where they are per-
mitted to labor; notices of business women in
Philadelphia and Washington. It has a well-
written and comp[-]ehensive account of the
Third Decade Celebration in Rochester. On
the title page is a woodcut of Miss Frances E.
Willard, with a sketch of her life. Miss, Wil-
lard is one of the most noted women of our
time. She is a warm philanthropist, and has
been a zealous worker in the cause of Temper-
ance since Oct., 1872. "Woman's Words," al-
though only in its second volume, has attained
great popularity. The ladies who are now as-
sociated as editors are extensively known, not
only as writers, but active workers for the ad-
vancement of education and culture, as well
as equal r[-]ghts and universal suffrage. It is
certainly one of the very best papers published
by women. The language is always choice
and elegant, the whole tone of the paper intel-
lectual and elevating.


[Column 1]
	THURSDAY MORNING, Aug. 8, we started, in
company with Mrs. M. I. Horne, President of
S. L. Stake Relief Society, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
her Counselor, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Presi-
dent of Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, on a
visit to North Jordan and Union Relief Socie-
ties, We arrived at North Jordan about eight
o'clock, where we were greeted by the Presi-
dent of the Society, Mrs. Eliza S. Spencer;
and other sisters, and were most warmly wel-
comed and hospitably entertained. At 10
o'clock we repaired to the New Meeting House,
a very substantial brick building; which has
been built very recently and speaks well for
the energy of the people of that district. Af-
ter the opening exercises and a few introduc-
tory remarks by the President, Mrs. Spencer,
Mrs. Horne was the first speaker; she spoke
eloquently and earnestly; her subjects were
woman's position at the present day at the
side of her husband, and referred to the proph-
ecies of Malachi concerning the work of the
latter days. She said that the Prophet Joseph
Smith, when he organized the Relief Society
in Nauvoo, recommended to them to do business
and conduct their meetings according to par-
liamentary rules. Said she believed the Lord
had accepted the sacrifices of His daughters.
She exhorted the sisters to seek knowledge
from the best books, as the Prophet Joseph
had advised, and cultivate their spiritual facul-
ties; told the sisters to read the Book of
Isaiah, where the Lord calls npon the women
of Zion. She exhorted mothers to discipline
their children in obedience, honesty, and
truthfulness. Advised the storing of grain
and the raising of white beans. Said the Gen-
tiles were watching the fulfilment of prophecy;
for already they had expressed them[-]elves as
believing that, when Lord Beaconsfield (Dis-
raeli) presided at the recent Congress at Berlin,
the prophecy of Zachariah was fulfilled, that
"ten men shall take hold, out of all languages
of the nations, even shall take hold of the
skirt of him that is a Jew," &c. Mrs. Horne
also spoke upon the growing evil of intemper-
ance.
	We were next called upon to address the
meeting, which we did briefly dwelling mostly
upon the education and cultivation of the
young people, the observance of good order,
courtesy and politeness in the home life, and
other practical matters which tend to lay the
foundation for improvement. Spoke upon in-
temperance, and that men and women should
be mutually helpful, and work harmoniously
together, otherwise they could not be success-
ful. Mrs. E. S. Taylor said she realized that
more real good had been accompli[-]h[-]d through
the organization of the sisters than could have
been done in any other way. She spoke upon
drunkenness and rowdyism; said the Saints of
God ought to be a temperate and [-]conomical
people. She said every mother's heart is inter-
ested in the training of children; she felt that
the great cause of recklessness and want of
spiritual activity among the children was not
for lack of instruction so much, as because the
principles of the Gospel had not been cor[-]ectly
carried out in the lives of the parents. Urged
the young sisters to use their influence with
the young men in the work of temperance; to
let them know they would not countenance
any evil practises, or associate with any who
were given to them; told the girls not to be de-
ceived into the idea of reform after marriage,
for that it could not be trusted.
	Bishop Bennion made a few remarks, ex-
pressing his satisfaction, and said the sisters
could not have touched upon subjects that
would have done more good. Said he was sure
great improvements could be made, if the peo-

[Column 2]
ple lived up to their duties. He spoke of the
hard work the brethren had to do there to get
water on their land, and even [-]ft[-]r they had
built the canals and dug the di[-]ches the water
was not sufficient; but there had been almost a
miracle accomplished this year in the raising
of good crop[-] of wheat, without watering and
without fencing. After very excellent remarks
from the President, Mrs. Spencer, meeting
closed with singing and prayer.
	At 2 o'clock the Young Ladies' Meeting was,
held in the same place. The first speaker was
Mrs. S. M. Kimball. She commenced by say-
ing, "What course can we pursue in life that
will produce the best results?" She felt we
had no right to abuse our bodies by overwork,
and cramp our spirits, for we would thus dwarf
our minds. She said we owe duties to society,
to each other, to the world at large, and we
could gain much by reflecting upon the sub-
jects brought up in speaking and praying.
Thought the class of reading suitable for young
mothers was the laws of life and health.	*	*
Mrs. Kimball said intelligent men are needed
to carry on the work of the last dispensation,
and such men need intelligent wives, those to
whom they can speak their best thoughts. She
alluded to the International Woman's Con-
gress in Paris, and said it was a proof that the
world was awakened to the true condition of
women. She said much could be done by both
men and women to lighten the burdens of each
other; we are in duty bound to do good. She
exhorted the young people to honor grey-hairs,
said "They'll be laid away by and by to make
room for you."
	Mrs. Prescinda Kimball said the day had
come when we must seek to be self-sustaining;
the children of Zion were naturally intelligent
and talented, they should improve their oppor-
tunities. She said, "Young ladies, honor Ce-
lestial Marriage, sustain your husbands in its
practise. Children, obey your parents, and 
walk in the path that leads to eternal lives;
there are many mansions in the kingdom of
God, let us please God and work righteousness.
Instruct your little ones, sisters, make your
homes pleasant, and let your children see your
lives correspo[-]d with your teachings."
	Mrs. Pixton said, in all her trials she had
found the truth of the Savior's words, "as thy
day so thy strength shall be." Some of the sis-
ters had better opportunities than others had.
Spoke of the rearing of children, the choosing
of a companion for life, said girls should make
it a subject of prayer. Also spoke strongly
against night excursions.
	Mrs. Horne made some brief remarks, said
we need not partake of evil because it was
around us, we want to be pure and virtuous.
"Life is real and earnest;" we have great privi-
leges. She spoke of the class of reading which
should be encouraged; said we have books and
newspapers of home production; we shonld
also become informed on the topics of the day.
	Br. Harker spoke to the mothers, and referred
them to the Book of M[-]rmon and the 2 000
children among the Lam[--]it[-]s, who feared
the Lord and worked righteousness because of
their mothers' fai[-]hfulness and prayers; he
said we cannot retrace the past, but we can be
careful in the future; let the parents do as
they promise their children, and live better
lives.
	The Bishop made some appropriate remarks,
and the meeting closed in the usual manner.
	Friday morning, August 9, at 10 o'clock, we
attended the First Annual Meeting of the Re-
lief Society at Union, S. L. Co. This was
formerly included in South Cottonwood, but is
now divided. Mrs. Elizabeth Richards, Presi-
dent, Mrs. Ann Grif[-]iths and Lucy Brady,

[Column 3]
Counselors, Mrs. M. A. Smart, Secretary, Mrs.
Lucy Brady, acting Treasurer. After the
meeting opened with singing and prayer, min-
utes of the previous meeting were read, also
the annual report, which was a good one finan-
cially. The sisters in that district have cer-
tainly been generous in contributing. Presi-
dent Horne spoke upon the blessings enjoyed
by the sisters, urged upon them the duty of
taking out naturalization paper; referred to
the blessings bestowed upon as in this once
desert land. Said we have been slumbering
and sleeping, but we must awake and seek to
save our children. Referred to the boy Samuel
being told by the angel of God to tell Eli, the
great High Priest, his sons should be cut off,
because he had not restrained them in their
wickedness.
	We were next invited to speak: referred to
woman's position now and in the past, the nec-
essity of education and culture among the
young, but more especially the spiritual educa-
without which all other advantages were fruit-
less to us as a people. Touched upon several
topics on which the sisters should inform them-
selves; mentioned the storing of grain and of
white beans, and referred the sisters to the ar-
ticle on the subject, written by suggestion of
President Brigham Young, and published Oct.
15, 1876.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said so much had been
said for woman she wanted to advocate the
cause of the brethren, but in the course of her
remarks referred to the reasons why the wom[-]n
of the world had taken it upon themselves to
represent their own cause; and said she was 
very forcibly reminded to-day of one of their
meetings, when, after they had spoken strongly
of the wrongs women had suffered, etc., some
man arose to defend the sex, but the women
cried out to him to keep his seat, they had been
listening to men for all these hundreds of years,
now they would speak for themselves. Mrs.
K. made many other pertinent remarks.
	Mrs. Prescinda M. Kimball said, this being
the fulness of all dispensations, there was much
to be done, prophecies to be fulfilled, and Tem-
ples built, the dead administered for, and we
must qualify ourselves for this work, for the
wife stands by the husband in all the work to
be done; women had now great opportunities,
etc.
	Mrs. Pixton spoke upon gl[-]a[-]ning and other
subjects.
	Bishop Ishmael Phillips then made some
most excellent remarks upon the woman ques-
tion—aid he considered it one of the greatest
questions of the day. He alluded to what had
been accomplished in the recent Convention of 
S. L. Co.; he felt these things were suggestive,
that there was a power behind these move-
ments, and they were a part of some great
work for the future. He also spoke upon the
gatheting of the Jews, the significance of the
movements made during the late war in the
East. His speech was so full of true and just
appreciation of woman's help and worth in so-
ciety, in politics, and elsewhere, that it was
moved and seconded by the President and offi-
cers of the meeting that the ladies give him a 
vote of thanks for his warm advocation of
woman's cause, which was heartily responded
to by all present.


