Within this territory, probably the last removal before Mosiah I's time, was a smaller district called by the same name, the Land of Nephi, but sometimes also called Lehi-Nephi. It was here that Mosiah I lived and reigned in his earlier years. As often occurred among the Nephites, the people were divided as to their disposition and works. Some were what the Book of Mormon calls "wicked," and others were "righteous." Besides, the Lamanites were becoming more and more troublesome. And so the Lord instructed Mosiah to take all those who would go with him out into the "wilderness", and He would lead them to a place of safety. This Mosiah did. We are not informed how many remained behind nor what became of them. But this fact we must not lose sight of?that it was the Land of Nephi or Lehi-Nephi which Mosiah I and his people abandoned.
Now the place to which the Lord guided these emigrants was called the Land of Zarahemla. But Zarahemla, too, had a larger and a smaller territory called by the same name, with a city of the same name, situated in the heart of the smaller district. And it had a numerous population, under the rule of a man named Zarahemla. These people were also Israelites, probably of the tribe of Judah, who had come to America under divine guidance not a great while after the Lehites landed in America. Having come here without records of any kind, their religious habits had degenerated to a point where they no longer believed in God, and their language had become so corrupted that Mosiah's people could not understand them. All this had taken place in about four hundred years. The two people became one, with the ruler of the superior as head of the government. And here we come to the lesson of today.
2. The Zeniff Colony. As time went on, those who had left relatives and friends in the old home, naturally wanted to know what had become of them. You know how it would be. For religion often divides husbands and wives, sweethearts and lovers, parents and children, brothers and sisters. It is assuredly a two-edged sword, as we are told in the Good Book. Well, one of these anxious ones was a man named Zeniff:
Zeniff says of himself, as you will read in the Record, that he was "taught in all the language of the Nephites," that he had "a knowledge of the Land of Nephi", and that he was by profession a spy for the Nephite army in their encounters with the Lamanites. In this business of spying out the enemy's secrets?and this is an interesting point?he had learned that the Lamanites were not such a bad lot after all. And so he was for entering into a treaty with them and teaching them the ways of peace and civilization through ideas rather than the sword. A very good suggestion, as we think today. But the ruler?by which term it is presumed he meant the head of the army?would have none of it. Being "an austere and blood-thirsty man," we are told, he was not only against the idea, but against the man who suggested the idea. And so Zeniff had to be rescued by his fellow soldiers. He was avenged, however?if he needed vengeance?by the great slaughter of Nephite forces in their encounters with the Lamanites, for the "greatest number of our army was destroyed", and the survivors went home to tell the tale to the widows and orphans. A wonderful lot of romance, philosophy, adventure, emotion, what not is packed away in those twenty-five lines about Zeniff before his great adventure to the southland.
3. This Picture and That. The Nephite Record abounds in contrasts?contrast of character, of ideas, of setting, of emotions, of everything in fact. One of the most illuminating of these is the character of King Benjamin set beside that of King Noah.
Noah had the usual kingly impression that he was of better clay than his subjects; Benjamin, that he had come from the same mold as those he ruled. Accordingly, while Benjamin earned his own living by hard work and did only what he thought was for the best good of his people, Noah taxed his subjects heavily in order that he might live sumptuously in "spacious buildings," ruling from a costly throne and surrounded by a group of corrupt, hypocritical sycophants. Benjamin saw to it that his home was a source of pleasure and benefit to his children; Noah had "wives and concubines," and encouraged a life of harlotry in his priests. The difference lay in their conflicting root qualities. The ideal of Noah, if it can be termed an ideal, was selfishness; that of Benjamin was service. And see how they ended?the one in a peaceful bed, surrounded by a nation of weeping friends; the other in bundles of faggots, set on fire by a host of infuriated enemies.
4. Community of the Spirit. One of the singular things about the Nephite prophets is that they seem to have known as much as, and some of them more than, we do about our Savior. And yet they lived, most of them, hundreds of years before his advent. This is especially true of King Benjamin, whose life we studied in the last lesson, and of Abinadi, of whom we read in this lesson. And the delightful thing about it all is the great clearness of the views expressed. Here are some of the high water marks in the teachings of Abinadi-
(a) His views of Christ. Opinion is divided today among Christians as to whether Jesus was divine or not. Indeed it is coming to be more and more the sentiment of people that He was not. And this in the face of a belief in the New Testament. But there can be no two opinions on the subject with those who accept the Book of Mormon. "God himself," Abinadi says, "shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people. And because He dwelleth in the flesh, he shall be called the Son of God." And this agrees with what Benjamin said before him, that "the Lord Omnipotent...... Who is from all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay...... And He shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things."
(b) His views of the law of Moses. These are clarity itself compared with what we find in the Old Testament, and are on a par with the utterances in the New Testament on the subject. "It is expedient," he says to Noah's priests, "that ye should keep the law of Moses as yet, but the time shall come when it shall no more be expedient to keep the law of Moses." This "strict law," he further explains, was given to the Children of Israel because "they were a stiff-necked people." And he calls it "a law of performances and ordinances," a law to keep them in remembrance of the Lord. It was a type, a shadow of things to come.
(c) His Views on Redemption. All men are "carnal, sensual, devilish," subjecting themselves to the devil, although they know good from evil. This has come about through the "fall" of our first parents. Now, unless something occurred to redeem them from the consequences of this "fall," all mankind would be lost "endlessly." But God has provided a means of redemption through Christ's death and resurrection. It is effective, however, only where man repents and mends his ways; for if he "persists in his own carnal nature," he is as if "there was no redemption made." Christ breaks the bands of death, robbing the grave of its victory. And so "there is a resurrection" from the dead, and "this mortal shall put on immortality, and this corruption shall put on incorruption." It is all as clear in the mind of Abinadi as if he were speaking of the events after they had taken place. This is the true fellowship of the Spirit, the communion of souls that have drunk of the same all-pervading influence, though separated by hundreds of years in time. Christ is eternally the same, whether He speaks to Moriancumr on the mount, to King Benjamin through an angel, to the poetic intelligence of Isaiah, to a humble farm-boy in the nineteenth century, looking for light and wisdom ?they are all one in spirit and purpose and heart.
Questions
1. Tell how the Nephites came to Zarahemla. Who was their leader? Whom did they find there? What was their condition after four hundred years?
2. Contrast King Benjamin and King Noah. Who was Zeniff?
3. Describe the conditions of Zeniff's colony under Zeniff and under Noah. How do you account for the difference?
4. Who was Abinadi? What kind of man would you think him to be from what he says and does? Was his fine exposition of doctrine wasted on the priests? Explain.
5. Who was Alma? Describe his character from the things he does in the text.
6. Who was Ammon? Limhi? Gideon?
LESSON II
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in March)
COURAGE
I. Courage enables us to encounter danger and difficulties fearlessly. It makes us stronger, braver, and more resolute. "Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord."?Psalms 31:24.
II. Moral courage or the courage of one's convictions. A. Joseph Smith the Prophet Inception of Relief Society movement. B. The L. D. S. Missionaries. C. Pioneers. D. Historical examples among women.
1. Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, in the face of ridicule, worked for women's suffrage.
2. Harriet Beecher Stowe worked for the abolition of slavery.
3. Florence Nightingale, first as well as one of the greatest of war nurses, devoted her life to the care of the sick.
III. Physical Courage?the type displayed by the soldier. A. David, the shepherd lad who slew the great Goliath. B. Washington at Valley Forge. C. Examples from the World War.
IV. Everyday Courage. A. Do daily tasks cheerfully. B. Make
brave decisions. C. Go on on with our work, even though unjust things are said of us. D. Seize opportunities with eagerness and zeal. "If I want to be a happy, useful citizen, I must be brave?This means I must be brave enough and strong  enough to control what I think and what I say and what I do."'?Colliers. "Be strong! We are not here to play, to dream, to drift; We have hard work to do and loads to lift; Shun not the struggle?face it Tis God's Gift.""?M. D. Babcock. V. Courage to observe Church standards. A. Is of vital importance in Relief Society work. B. Is a positive force in character building. Two Artists Two Artists stood at the dawn of day Where the way of life before them lay; Each felt the urge that is heaven lent To whom the God of Arts hath sent. Said the first, "I will paint for the world to see A masterpiece of artistry; At my touch, all men and the crowned king Will hold my name, and my praise will sing!" So he caught its gleam from the golden cloud, And the ocean's blue, and the morn-mist's shroud; Then with master stroke he flung them high? A scene of grandeur beneath the sky. The crowds came fast with praises free; The Artists gazed at his artistry? But when he viewed what his hand had wrought, *Twas not the thing himself had sought. The second, too, would win high place, An honored name in the world's great race; He, too, would work; his highest goal To put on his canvas a bit of soul. He wrought all day with patient skill. He wrought all day with his brush, until A little child with tear-filled eye And quivering lips came slowly by. Then the Artist turned from his mastery, For his soul was filled with sympathy; And then, with tender touch and mild, He drew a sketch for the little child. Till the baby smiled and raised his eyes In all of a baby's glad surprise. The Artist, thrilled with loves increase, Knew not?that the sketch was his masterpiece.. ?Alice Morrill. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 37 LESSON III. Literature (Third Week in March) AUTOBIOGRAPTHY OF JOAQUIN MILLER 24 PT HS The Autobiography of Cincinnatus Hiner (sometimes written Heine) "Joaquin" Miller has been published in various places and will probably be available in almost any library in the country. Volume one of Joaquin Miller's Poems, published in 1917 by the Harr Wagner Publishing Company of San Francisco, is a convenient one to use, if available. Joaquin Miller was a strange being, so strange that even Western people who should know him best scarcely know him at all. This is due partly to his reported eccentricities and partly to the fact that it has been popular among critics either to distort the peculiarities or else to ignore him entirely. Now that he has joined the immortals, perhaps a calmer, saner attitude will be taken toward him and his work. His autobiography is a naive statement of his experiences. It is not long and gives no very adequate picture of him; but with his poems, which he says are foot-notes to his life, it does round into something like a complete likeness. His habit of calling his father papa throughout the autobiography adds to the spirit of simplicity, causing the reader to wonder if the poet ever did grow into manhood. That he felt the American attitude toward him and his works to be unfair is indicated early in his notes. He says, "In dedicating this final edition of my poems to the memory of my parents, please let me introduce them to you, and, incidentally, introduce myself; for it really seems to me that from the day I was suddenly discovered and pointed out in London I have been an entire stranger in my own land?the land I have loved, lived for, battled for from the first. As for that red-shirted and hairy man bearing my name abroad and "standing before kings", I never saw him, never heard of him until on returning to my own country I found that this unpleasant and entirely impossible figure ever attended or even overshadowed my most earnest work. I desire that my lines shall be read and remembered for the merit which the British seem to have discovered in them, and quite apart from that creation of the American imagination, the stalwart, red-shirted and six-shootered hairy man of the Sierra Nevada mountains. Hence this sketch of my gentle and pious parents, involving the story of my stormy youth." The poet's story might well be a page from the journal of  some good Latter-day Saint, so similar were his experiences to those of many of our own ancestors. "My cradle," he says, "was a covered wagon pointed west. I was born in a covered wagon, I am told, at or about the time it crossed the line dividing Indiana and Ohio, wherein my mother was born." The wagon housing this pious family of Quakers continued pointing west at intervals until the boy at last found himself on the shores of the "Sundown Seas." The father, a gentleman, according to his son, never in his life fired a gun. In fact, he had a great horror for fire arms and found it unnecessary to resort to their use in any of his pioneer experiences. Being a school master, the father of Joaquin Miller spent much of the time on Sundays and in the evenings reading to his little flock. He was devout in the matter of prayers and blessings on the food and reared his children to be the same. As in so many pioneer households, the mother seemed to be the better manager of the two. Trundle beds, homemade clothing, scant rations, heart breaks, ecstacies, troop through the pages of this simple narrative just as they do through the majority of nur own pioneer literature, for the Millers were pioneers in the finest sense of the term. Bits like this make all of us kin: "A few days before this little rebellion by the baby boy in his first pantaloons," (the boy refused longer to sleep in the cradle) "an honest man and a pretty young girl, really the prettiest woman I had ever seen except my mother, came to papa to be married, and, as usual, where money was so scarce, brought two coon skins. And they were very fine skins, killed in the heart of winter and dressed to perfection......... "Mother had claimed these two beautiful skins for some special purpose of her own and put them away under her pillow, where she always kept the money when there was any money, and she now brought out the beautiful skins, which Jimmy had also admired very much and she put them carefully and tenderly in the cradle, smoothing them down with her hands and talking gently baby talk to Jimmy........ No cradle for Jimmy Miller. So mother took the coon skins out, for a time at least, and the cradle was put back in the smoke house. "Soon after, a good old Southern woman came from the Billy Fields settlement and sent us little folks away to Billy Fields and his house full of girls. And when the old woman went away we were all back home and very, very happy. "But let me tell you the end of this chapter in verse. For there are things that are sacred from severe prose and a song suits better the theme. This is from Harper's Magazine: GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 39 WHEN LITTLE SISTER CAME "We dwelt in the woods of the Tippecanoe, In a lone, lost cabin, with never a view Of the full day's sun for a whole year through. With strange half hints through the russet corn We three were hurried one night. Next morn There was frost on the trees, and a sprinkle of snow And tracks on the ground. We burst through the door And a girl baby cried?and then we were four. "We were not sturdy, and we were not wise, In the things of the world, and the ways men dare; A pale-browed mother with a prophet's eyes A father that dreamed and iooked any where. Three brothers?wild blossoms, tall fashioned as men And we mingled with none, but we lived as when The pair first lived, ere they knew the fall; And loving all things we believed in all."