[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | May | Issue: 19 | Title: MEN OF THE REPUBLIC. | Author: Unknown]

MEN OF THE REPUBLIC.

[Read, at the National Council of Women,
Washington, D. C.]
	THE women of the Republic are the
direct heritors of the women of the Revolu-
tion. All talk of a new woman is a mere
fable. There is no new woman.
	Ever and always it is the same woman;
the woman who went forth from Eden with
never a flimsy excuse upon her lips; the
woman who sang thepaeons of the Exodus
the woman who spins among her maidens
while Ulysses roams the seas; the woman
who proves to her Roman neighbors the
redeeming power of Christianity upon a
husband by showing the healed wound up-
on her arm; the woman who launched the
bark of Columbus; the woman kneeling on
the bleak shores of Plymouth; the woman
who made the homespun suit for the in-
augural of her husband as first President
of the Republic; the woman who taught
that President, when yet a little lad, that it
is better to trust in the Lord than to put
confidence in princes.
	Blessed womanhood of the world! With-
out it earth would be a howling wilderness,
such as Dante saw and was afraid.
	Behold the women of the Revolution!
They roll the logs beside their husbands to
build their rude cabins; they sow, they reap,
they card and spin and make the garments
of the household; they rear rosy sons and
daughters; they teach them the Sermon on
the Mount—reverence for holy things, re-
spect for authority; courage, reliance, self-
control; but, above all, that it is the right
of every soul to be free to follow the dic-
tates of conscience, and that resistance to
tyrants is obedience to God.
	When the great conflict comes they are
ready, and when the husband and father
and the older sons join the patriot army
they gather their little ones around them,
and their faith and fortitude hold them true,
fleeing now from the hostile savages on the
wild frontier, now from the the harrying
Hessians scou ing through farms and ham-
lets, but oftener with busy wheel and
loom and kneading-board hoarding their
resources, their struggling country’s needs.
	Martha Washington kept thirteen spin-
ning-wheels running at Mount Vernon, to
make clothing for men, women, and child-
ren. Women in the towns banded them-
selves together to wear homespun, to give
up laces and frills of foreign make—just as
men gave up their ruffled shirts and their
broadcloth and their silken hose. And let
it stand forever to the credit of the women
of the Revolution that, in the darkest
hours of the struggle for independence,
when plottings and conspiracies were under-
mining the influence of Washington and
tying the hands of the Continental Con-
gress, they never lost their confidence and 
courage, but fed, clothed, and inspired
with never-failing hope the barefoot patri-
ots of Trenton and Valley Forg .
	John Quincy Adams, in a speech before
the United States Congress, asserting the
rights of women to petition on political
subjects, said, “The voice of history
speaks, trumpet-tongued, of the daring and
intrepid spirit of patriotism burning in the 
bosom of the woman of that day.” Yet
when we search for facts concerning wo-
man’s part in the history of the Revolu-
tion, it is like culling flowers by the
flashes of midnight lightning. Washington
Irving, the beloved, has not so much as a
word even for Martha Washington’s work
at Mount Vernon.
	As in all times and nations, the women
of the Revolution must be studied chiefly
through the deeds of their husbands and 
fathers, in the reflected light of their sons
and daughters. They were the supporting
columns of the Revolution, investing the
patriot army as the gods of Olympus did
he contending hosts of Troy.


[Column 1]
Of all the men of the Revolution who
signed the Declaration of Independence,
there is but one who was early orphaned
and without a patriot mother but he was
early wedded to a woman who was wife
and mother in one in all that was strong
and sweet and wise and helpful and self-
sacrificing. The mothers of Washington
and Adams and Jefferson were especially
great and a historian of the period says,
“If the Adamses were more pronounced
patriots than the Dickenses, it was because
the women of the family were less afraid
of the executioner’s axe.”
	Whether among the exiled Scotch-Irish
of North Carolina, the persecuted Catholics
of Maryland, forbidden to teach their
children in their own schools, in a colony
they had founded on religious toleration,
the Quakers and Huguenots and Palatin-
ates of Pennsylvania, the freedom-loving
Hollanders of New York, or the Puritans
of New England, the history of the women
of the Revolution is deep graven with the
deeds of men on the foundation-stone of the
Republic.
	Education in those days began at the
mother’s knee the object lessons were
example and precept rather than book and
rule In Jefferson’s resolve never to en-
gage, while in public office, in any enter-
prise to improve his fortune, is reflected the
brave mother, Mary Randolph, who taught
her children to live the songs of freedom
she sang to them so sweetly beside the
blazing log fires of old Virginia.
	George Washington inherited his military
genius from his father through a long line
of Norman warriors; from his mother his
indomitable will, his imperious temper, his
endurance, his practical insight into the
affairs of men. When, allured by the
spirit of adventure, he was about to enter
the British Navy, she turned his attention
to civil engineering, through which he was
trained for the rigors of a seven years’ war.
	His faith in the triumph of right and
sublime modesty in success was illustrated
in his mother when Lafayette called upon
her, after Cornwallis’s surrender, to con-
gratulate her upon the victories of her son
—“I am not surprised at what George has
done; he always was a good boy.”
	Washington’s reverence for his mother
was shown when he hastened to her side
upon his election as first President of the
Republic. “Go, George,” was her good-
bye, ‘‘fill the destiny Heaven has assigned
you you have your mother s blessing now
as in the past. You will see me no more.”
And the hero of the continents laid his
head on his mother’s breast and wept like
a child.
	Show me your ideal woman of the Revo-
lution and I will show you the woman of
which she was the prototype. Conditions
change—womanhood never!
	Do you tell me of Elizabeth Schuyler,
wife of Alexander Hamilton, the Nestor
of the Revolution, his counselor, secretary,
compiler of his records, who preserved the
manuscripts of 1775—1804. acquired by
the government in 1849,and which brought
to light the true history of revolutionary
events?
	Then, I will tell you of Jessie Benton
Fremont, wife of the great “Pathfinder,”
who led his famishad men over the snow-
capped Rockies to richer conquest than did
Hannibal crossing the Alps. I will tell
you how a brave young daughter of a
United States Senator gave up the pleasures
of the capital to follow the fortunes of a

[Column 2]
fearless explorer; to cheer him in his
perilous campaigns of exploration, in the
savage conflicts of the political arena, on
the sanguine field of battle, keeping his re-
cords, compiling his reports, preserving his
memoirs for the grateful day to come.
	Do you tell me of Hannah Adams, the
woman of higher education, the first Ameri-
can woman to make literature a profession,
whose work on the religions of the world
gave her precedence in England overall
the men of letters of America?
	Then I will tell you of Maria Mitchell,
walking among the stars, leading the
scientists of the world, winning the medals
of kings and potentates.
	Do you point out the woman who has
taken upon herself holy vows, Elizabeth
Bollinger Collins, stirring up her followers
to purity of life, and exemplifying in her
conduct the truths she committed to others?
	Then I will tell you of Lucretia Mott,
persecuted for righteousness’ sake the
purest, sweetest, whitest soul in all the
swelling retinue of women who emulate
her virtues and carry on her work.
	Do you tell me of her whose blessed
mission it is to "cheer and comfort and
command?” Of Harriet Chew, whom
Washington chose as a companion when he
sat for Gilbert Stuart’s celebrated portrait,
because, as he tells us, “her genial conver-
sation will give my countenance its most
agreeable expression” lovely and excellent
Harriet Chew, to whom we owe that per-
petual peace upon the benignant face of
Washington!
	Then I will tell you of Harriet Dane,
that beautiful spirit of light flashing
through the sombre shadows of Buchanan’s
administration or of that marvel of the
World's Fair era, Bertha Honore Palmer,
winning the plaudits of two continents by
the imperial power of womanly graces.
	Do you tell me of Ann Gooch, of Virginia,
mother of the great Thomas L. Benton,
who taught her son to be pure in his life
and habits as a girl who in all his long
public life, when the standard of manhood
was trailed lower than now never drank,
smoked, or gambled because he promised
his mother never to do so?
	Then I will tell you of Lucy Webb
Hayes, holding to her convictions through
storms of calumny and ridicule, never to
place the wine-cup on a table of her serv-
ing; Lucy Webb Hayes, whose smile was a
benediction, whom men loved, women
praised, and little children, rising up,
called blessed.
	Do you tell me of ‘‘Mother” Bailey,
searching for the wounded among the mass-
acred at Fort Griswold, bringing the wife
and the child to receive the last blessing of
the dying patriot?
	I will tell you of “Mother” Bickerdyke,
on the battlefield at midnight, holding
down her lantern to the faces of the dead,
lest, perchance, some poor wounded boy
had been left by the stretcher-bearer to die
alone and uncomforted.
	Do you tell me of Sarah Franklin Bache,
daughter of Benjamin Franklin, minister-
ing with her own hands to the sick and
wounded in the Philadelphia hospitals,
collecting food and money and medicine,
directing twenty-two hundred women in
the sewing rooms, making garments for
Washington’s half-clad army, yet withal
the helpful mother of a brood of little
children, and the exemplar of domestic
virtues held up by Marquis de Chastillux to
the women of France?

[Column 3]
	I will tell you of the deeds of Dorothea
Dix, of Mary A. Livermore, of Clara Bar-
ton, of the women innumerable of Boston,
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Cin-
cinnati, Chicago, of the whole mighty
North of the aid societies and sanitary
commissions and the millions of dollars
they raised and expended in time of war
of the homes they have founded, the hos-
pitals they have built, the hosts they have
comforted and assisted since the dawn of
peace.
	Yes, and I will tell you of the women of
the South of their hardships and priva-
tions in the cause they believed to be right
of the sacrifices they made, beyond the
sacrifices of the women of the North, be-
cause of their isolation and lack of means
—sacrifices reflecting undying splendor up-
on the courage and endurance and faith of
the womanhood of America.
	Do you tell me of that strong woman of
the judicial head and the gentle heart,
Abagail Adams, first American patriot to
declare for independence, first to demand
better care for women in the laws of the
Republic that grand woman, maligned by 
pretty politicians, scorned by the ignorant
and tyrannical.
	I will tell you of Lydia Maria Child, the
first American to write a book demanding
the emancipation of the slave, and press
the rights of women over whose bier
Wendell Phillips said, “She was the kind
of woman one would, choose to represent
woman's entrance into broader life—modest,
womanly, sincere, solid, real, loyal, to be
trusted, equal to affairs and yet above them,
a companion with the password of every
science and all literature.”
	Beautiful are the women of the Revolu-
tion in the reflected light of their daughters.
Lucretia Mott, chosen by the United States
humanitarians to represent the Republic in
the World’s Anti-Slavery Society in Lon-
don, denied a seat because she was a wom-
an, and raising a storm of indignation
which has opened the schools and colleges
and conventions of the world to women.
	Jane Gray Swisshelm, whose printing-
office was mobbed in Pittsburg and its con-
tents thrown in the river because she de-
manded the repeal of the old chattel laws
in Pennsylvania relating to women and
children, thus starting an agitation that led
to humane legislation. Lucy Stone, howled
down by a mob in New York, yet living to
see the day when she was carried in the
arms of that magnificent army of women,
of whose cause she was the pioneer, at the
World’s Fair Congress of Women. Julia
Dent Grant, going down with the general
of the armies under the guns of Vicksburg,
to give her personal support to Annie
Wittenmeyer, bearing comfort to the wound-
ed men in the neglected field hospitals.
Anna Ella Carroll, true to the name and
fame of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, free-
ing her slaves to convert her patrimony into
literature appealing to Maryland, by all her
glorious past, to hold herself true to the
Union. Anna Ella Carroll, counselor of
Lincoln and Stanton, author of the Tennes-
see campaign, for whose reward her country
gave a cot in a free hospital and the martyr’s
entrance into the ranks of the immortals.
Susan B. Anthony, tried and fined for vot-
ing at the Presidential election of 1872—a
fine that still stands unpaid, because those
who passed sentence believed her plea that
“resistance to tyranny is obedience to
God.”
	But, like Paul, what shall I more say?


For the time would fail me to tell of all
those who, through faith, have subdued
kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained
promises, escaped the edge of the sword,
out of weakness were made strong, of
whom the world was not worthy; of the
women who have let the oppressed go free,
who have girdled the earth with a white
ribbon, who have opened the harems and
zenanas of the Old World, who are found-
ing homes and reformatories and hospitals
and schools; who are standing by the
strikers and the labor unions, and assert
the might of right against the right of
might; who proclaim the glad message of
peace at home and abroad; who are destined,
in the providence of God, to make and
keep this American Republic the land of
happy hearts and busy lives, and the im-
partial dispenser of every good and perfect
gift ordained of Heaven and esteemed of
men.
