[Early Sunrise by Gertrude Kovan]

early morning sunrise, Warming all earth in its glow. Then, as the sun climbed the heavens To hang in the skies above, LNs & Make Wittens From Each tiny, golden sunbeam Filled the day with eternal love. Now, as the hours of evening Draw closer, and sunset is here, I pray that tomorrow's sunrise Will be always, forever near. As x | a orn-Out Sweater Thalia Black Us UL and attractive mittens may be made from a worn-out sweater. To cut the pattern, place the child's hand on a piece of heavy paper, with the fingers close together and the thumb extended. Draw a pencil line around the hand one inch from the edge, to make an allowance for the seam. Pin the pattern on an old sweater with the wrist down, so that the bottom of the sweater may be used for the cuff of the mitten. Cut two pieces of the sweater for each mitten, one for the top and one for the bottom. Seam carefully on the sewing machine, using a small stitch and going around the mitten twice, for extra strength. Be sure that all of the ends of the yarn are securely caught in the stitching. The mittens may be trimmed with attractive designs, using bright-colored yarn or embroidery floss. Buttonhole the edges with yarn or embroidery floss to match the color used in the trimming design. WINTER QUARTER at the REGISTRATION JAN. 3
Make plans now to enroll at your state university where you are offered unexcelled study opportunities and the chance to prepare for the future in the wholesome environment of your state school. Classwork will start JAN. 5
For full information write or call Office of the President University of Utah Salt Lake City 1, Utah of peisrmas MUSIC for LADIES THREE - PART CHORUSES z= Alleluia, Christ is Born—Luvaas.15 —_ Angels O'er the Fields—Carol 15 es Birthday of a King—Neidlinger.15 — Carol of the Bells—Wilhousky 20 a Christmas Bells—McCollin 25 ae Christ Child, Divine—Shumaker 18 = Christmas Bells—Youse 20 Pa Innkeeper's Carol—Warner 22 ones Little Boy Came To Bethlehem Town— OS: 22 ee Nativity Carol—Graf - 18 - — Nowell—Brett -00----00---0--20--e--s 0 6 a Silent Night—Epperson 12
Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as a order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. (1 On Approval [] Charge C] Money Enclosed Name 0.0.0---ecccccceceeeeeeeceeceececeeeceeccueceeeeseeeceeeeeees Address -.-----------eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeececececeenees City S Stette occ ccc cee ceeereeeeeeeeneie ee ere eee ete Oe 45-47 a FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY SALY LAKE CITY 5, UTAN ] Plan Your Vacation NOW! TAKE A VIDA FOX CLAWSON TOUR Personally Conducted OLD MEXICO Visit the mountains and the seashore. See the ancient temples and modern cities. ¥ ¥ ¥ — EUROPE — See the architecture and art of the past. Watch history in the making. Attend the coronation of Queen Elizabeth the Second For complete details, write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966
East South Temple — Tel. 4-2017 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH There's still plenty of time to gift shop from Sears Catalog Order Desk. Tens of thousands of wonderful gift items await your selection. Helpful personnel will assist you in making out your order. Basement—Salt Lake City Store There are Catalog Order Desks in Ogden, Logan, Provo—many smaller towns, too.