[A New Method of Map Construction by Rose A. Openshaw]

A New Method of Map Construction Rose A. Openshaw NYLONG COMPANY P. O. Box 1436
Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send me ----- packages NYLONG for which | enclose ) eeepibdel oil painting and the composition of prose and poetry are major sources of delight in my life, there are other hobbies also that engross me, and mapmaking is one of them. I find it a joy to construct maps, especially those of the Holy Land where Jesus trod. Time-consuming—yes, but when completed you have not only the map (and its texture is beautiful) to lend lasting interest and pleasure, but a mind filled with information as well. My method of map construction, which I find entirely satisfactory, is all my own and is a possible shortcut over many others. | Laid over the original I wish to duplicate (maps may be borrowed from schools, churches, seminaries, libraries, etc) is a sheet of plain white tissue paper (such as is used for gift wrapping) and the map's outline, with the cities, rivers, and mountains, is carefully traced with pencil. Then, spreading warm paste (made by boiling water and flour to the right consistency) onto a piece of old sheet or other used or unused white material, and somewhat larger than the map, to allow for a hem, I lay the tissue paper, traced side up, pressing gently into the paste.: When thoroughly dried, the map may be ironed on both sides, and the edges trimmed and hemmed. For greater clarity and permanence, which also doubly impresses the locations on: the mind, the pencil marks should be retraced with pen and ink (crayons may furnish color, blue for water, etc., following the tints of the original map).  
864 
The finished production may then be tacked to a long, narrow board, and a key ring inserted in the center for hanging purposes. (An ice pick is excellent for puncturing holes.) Several maps of this variety are in my possession, all too choice for money to buy; and I use them over and over in teaching and in talks. For charts, too, so essential in impressing facts, all that is required for material is a poster (these can be had in various sizes and are simply a pliable cardboard from your school supply store), a ball-point pen, and a bottle of India ink (a dollar's outlay, perhaps, in all). A key ring may be used for hanging, and a bit of adhesive tape reinforces corners at the back. An eighteen-inch pointer, slightly larger in circumference than a lead pencil, so essential in directing the eye when using maps and charts, may be whittled by anyone handy with the knife, and will prove a most lasting treasure. YO Reh eee ADDRESSES OF SERVICEMEN NEEDED! The Servicemen's Coordinator at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, is compiling a list of all former students who are now in the armed services of the United States. "It is our wish," the coordinator states, "to send all former Brigham Young University students now in the service a monthly letter containing campus news and describing important religious functions. In addition, we plan to send a copy of every edition of our campus paper, The Brigham Young Universe. To those on active duty we will send Christmas packages. Please send us the name and the full military address of the servicemen, as well as the address of his parents or guardian." Servicemen's Coordinator, Box 2, station 1, Provo, Utah WO ALL YOUR Cpr ONE re nr CHRISTMAS FORTY EMPLOYEES WHO SERVED FOR A TOTAL SHOPPING for OF MORE THAN 1400 YEARS AT EVERYTHING THe DEsERET News PREss WISH YOU A Merry Christmas AND A Happy and Prosperous New Year MUSI Cc CO. 70
South Main Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH MUSICAL at PH {{f{Llle HE MILLIONS jug LISTEN EACH sunnay is OR}.: iS 3 GRRE iNng> g ids
THE SPOKEN WORD FRM
Tag CROSSROAT OFTHE Wes'
ILL WELOONG THIS NEW BOOK
Ry Richard £ Evang MARPER & BROTHERS Na CATH ais tit blll Christmas Transara 1.
TONIC FOR OUR TIMES
Richard L. Evans Newest of the famous series from the ''Crossroads of the West'