[Work Meeting: Household Cleaning by Rhea H. Gardner]

Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Household Cleaning Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, March 10, 1953 "Cleanliness is.. Clean, orderly home is a mark of a good Christian home. It sets the background for peace of mind, contentment, clean thoughts, and wholesome _ telationships among family members. A clean, orderly home is also a mark of a good homemaker.
Cleanliness and orderliness save furnishings, time, and energy, and contribute to the health and safety of the family.
Since cleaning is the removal of accumulated dirt, anything you can do to keep dirt out of the house will minimize the efforts required to clean.
Mats and scrapers placed near entrances serve as reminders as well as a means of removing dirt from shoes.
They will pay for themselves many times over by preventing wear on floors that results when dirt is tracked in on them, not to mention energy saved in cleaning.
Every home needs a thorough cleaning and face-lifting occasionally.
This doesn't mean, however, _that the whole house must be put in a state of disorder and cleaned all at once.
When the urge to give your home a thorough cleaning strikes you, don't grab a pail, a mop, and cleaning cloths with the idea that you're.
Next to godliness."" —John Wesley ready to plunge right in. 'Take stock of what you're going to do; when it will be best to do it, and the supplies you will need to do it really well.
Because home situations vary, each homemaker must make her own plan for cleansing, so that everything will proceed in an orderly way and with a minimum of disorder while the cleaning is being done. It can be as simple as deciding that you will first clean and put in order all the closets, cupboards, and drawers.
Before you begin the big jobs, you may want to clean and store in a safe, clean place all the wall hangings, lamps, bric-a-brac and pictures.
While cleaning, take stock of needed repairs, such as electrical wiring, chairs to be reglued, loose tailings, frayed edges on rugs, and other danger spots. See if light is needed in the halls or on the stairways to save someone from a dangerous accident.
Housecleaning need not be the dreaded job that it sometimes is, if you will follow a few practical, healthful work habits. Don't let your ambition run away with you! You can clean well, without driving yourself. Put into practice the following advice:  

850  1.
Wear comfortable shoes and _ attractive but suitable clothes for the work you have to do. A neat appearance can do wonders in keeping fatigue down and one's morale up. 2.
Rest before you get tired.
Take frequent, but short rest periods throughout the day.
Prop your feet up and relax and try drinking a glass of cold water or milk. The way women work is of great concern and the subject of much research, particularly of heart associations and larger factories employing women. The result of this research proves that frequent short rest periods boost production to two, and sometimes three times the output of continuous work without short rests. The strain on the heart and other parts of the body is very greatly lightened.
Women are prone to allow their own "motors" to go much faster, for longer periods of time, than they would allow their vacuum cleaners or mixers to go, for fear of burning them out. 3.
Develop a kind of rhythm in your work.
There is good form in housework just as in sports.
Good form is simply performing a skill properly and with the least outlay of energy.
Much energy can be saved and tiredness avoided if bodies are used properly. If the back is kept straight and stooping done with the leg muscles which are stronger than back muscles, another cause of fatigue will be avoided. It requires nineteen times more energy to stoop to pick up an object than to grasp it at waist level..
Learn to relax even while you work. Do not dash around with tensed muscles. Sit on a comfortable chair to do every task you can, such as polishing silver, cleaning lamps, etc.
Learn to relax your legs, back, and neck muscles. S.
Housecleaning time is too often home accident time. A good stepladder is a necessity in most homes. Do not use as a substitute the edge of a chair, or a box or piece of furniture not made for such sturdy use.
They would be expensive substitutes, if the worker slipped or if they crashed to the floor.
Many cleaning compounds are poisonous and some are inflammable.
Keep them out of the reach of children and always carefully labeled.
Make a practice of washing out oily cloths after you have used them;*burn those that cannot be used again.
Oily rags left carelessly around have been the cause of many home fires. | 6.
Cultivate pride in all you do.
Doing a job you can be proud of provides an incentive for work and holds back fatigue. Remember, boredom causes fatigue. A study of twenty women (as nearly alike as twenty women can be) doing the same task, showed that those whose mental attitudes toward that task were good, performed it much easier, quicker, and with less fatigue than those who disliked it. SUGGESTIONS Do you have a stock of the latest recommended cleaning supplies? Are the methods you use for cleaning up-to-date and in keeping with the best and easiest ways of doing each part of your housecleaning?
Have you tried: Cellulose sponges in place of cloths?
Modern window cleaners in place of soap and water?
Easier tile and stove cleaners?
Sponge mops in place of old fashioned scrubbing brushes? Self-polishing waxes on linoleum? New woodwork and wall cleaners that require no rinsing?
Methods of cleaning are given in the following bulletins: "Household Cleaning" "Beauty Treatments'—No. 196 "Wood Finishing'—No. 171
Single copies are available without cost, and quantities for a nominal cost, from the Utah Extension Service, Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Similar materials can be obtained from _ other state extension services. rege aie