EDITORIAL ~~VOL. She Pioneering Heritage THE word "pioneer" usually symbolizes the successful surmounting of physical obstacles and hardships, the performance of deeds of courage and heroism. One pictures a long line of covered wagons lumbering heavily, clumsily, over rough, uneven ground. One hears the rumble of slowly-turning, creaking wheels, the dull thud of oxen hoofs, the crack of whips and the sound of raised voices, barely distinguishable through the thick, enveloping dust which seems to hang motionless, half obliterating the wagon train in the stifling, noonday heat. Or one may call to mind a more poignant scene one in which the company of pioneers moves even more slowly, more laboriously, as human beings pull and push rudely built handcarts, wearily, haltingly, agonizingly trying to keep moving by counting the steps taken, by counting the revolutions of the large wheels, seeking to refresh the mind with the remembrance of flowered hedgerows, of cool, flowing waters, far from the hot, parched plains stretching endlessly before them. Gone, however, are these pioneer modes of travel, and, in their place, today a low-slung, streamlined car races over that same road, now smoothed and graded, and, high in the air above, a plane spans the horizon in a matter of minutes. When one compares the two epochs there would seem to be little Page 448 in common between the pioneer folk of that earlier period and the folk of the present time. These contrasting pictures, however, do not take into account the woman seated in the covered wagon, the woman trudging along with the handcart, the woman driving the speeding car, and the woman in the plane. Human frailties and human strengths are found in each of the four women. Each passes through the same fundamental experiences birth and death, sorrow and anguish, happiness and joy. The type of home in which one lives, the mode of travel one uses, are not the deciding factors in whether or not one yields to temptation or overcomes evil and leads a life of righteousness. That is dependent upon the manner in which one meets disappointments and sorrows, on the inward growth one achieves through the exercise of faith, of moral courage, and of love. Ninety-nine years have passed since the entrance of the first pioneers into the valleys of the mountains. Those pioneers have all departed from this scene of existence with their great work accomplished. Unknown now are the physical perils and dangers of that earlier day; however, the spirit of pioneering continues to burn bright in Latter-day Saints who have had it bred in their bones and sinews by the strength and power of the gospel. EDITORIAL Latter-day Saints today pioneer in living according to Church standards in the midst of Babylon. Amid an orgy of waste and extravagance, they pioneer in frugality and saving. During an era of curtailed production and destruction, they pioneered in bounteous production and conservation. While idleness is being rewarded, they pioneer in earning their needs. At a time when evil forces strive to loosen and weaken family solidarity and family responsibility toward each other, they pioneer in loving care for their own, and even are setting forth 449 into an uncharted land seeking unselfishly to become their brothers' keepers. By ever following the call of divinely inspired leaders, Latter-day Saints will always be pioneers in traveling along a straight and narrow path, and as each generation emerges from the mountains of deception and worldly sophistries into the great valley of righteousness and the kingdom of heaven, it will pass on to its children the great pioneering heritage of its noble forefathers. M. C. S. Congratulations to Sister Augusta Winters G. Rant HE General Board of Relief Society, on behalf of its members in all the stakes and missions of the Church, takes this opportunity to congratulate Sister Augusta Winters Grant on her ninetieth birthday, July 7, 1946. It is with great appreciation for her fine example of Latter-day Saint womanhood, and for her years of service to the Church, that we pay tribute at this time. We are mindful of her devotion to our beloved President Heber J. Grant; we are grateful for the pattern of motherhood which she has set before us; and we rejoice that we are all heirs to the breadth and beauty of her spirit. Sister Grant, we wish you many happy returns of the day, and may you enjoy many more years in which to contribute the graciousness and the love which radiate from you to the women of the Church.