NOTES FROM THE FIELD 467 WASHINGTON STAKE, WASHINGTON (D. C.) WARD ANNUAL ANNIVERSARY PARTY Front row, left to right: Iola Sabin, Second Counselor; Virginia Clark, First Counselor; Mary E. Stimpson, President. Second row: Marian Beacham, Secretary; LaRae Mortensen; Barbara Lewis. Third row: Ouida Wootten; Maria C. P. Olsen, eldest member of the Relief Society in Washington Stake; Lorraine Ingersoll; Amelia Bowers; Hope Reeder; Karma J. Robinson. Fourth row: Catherine Lund; Effie Thompson; Theresa Nilsen; Betty Kirkland; Dorothy Billings; Jean Daines; Kathryn Woolley. Fifth row: Clara Johnson; Zina L. Willey; Milton A. Barlow; Dagma Palmer; Nada Smith; W. Haven Willey; Eleanor M. Farr. The annual birthday party commemorating the organization of the Relief Society was held March 15, 1946. As part of the evening's program, a very splendid presentation of the play "An afternoon at Emma's," was presented under the direction of Sister Clara Johnson. The party was attended by 150 people. Photograph submitted by Mary E. Stimpson. 58 miscellaneous household articles donated to the Good Neighbors and the Salvation Army. Sister Ross explains, "We have earnestly tned to follow the admonition 'He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none' (Luke 3:11). Since most of the women in our Society have jobs outside their homes, we feel that we have had unusual success in our charitable efforts. There are only five families who live here permanently. The other members of our group are university students who stay with us a year or so. Their presence enriches our experiences but their departure leaves us desolated until new students come and are affiliated with " us. 468 ? TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT GROVE THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS Seated, left to right: Minnie Anderson; Anna Johnson; Margaret Holdaway; Matilda Christensen; Erika Anderson. Standing, left to right: Margaret Barney; Mary Wadley; Ellen Sjoberg; Perlinda Radmall; Stena Christensen; Laura Lim; Margaret Shoell; Delilah Fugal, Annie Anderson. All of these sisters have given outstanding service. Laura Lim has been a visiting teacher for fifty years, with the exception of the time she spent as a counselor in the. Ward presidency. The others. Have served from twenty to thirty-nine years, and most of them are still active teachers. At the age of eighty-six, Anna Johnson does much of the sewing of burial clothes, and, when the weather permits, makes her regular teaching calls. Sister Minnie Anderson, eighty-five, also makes her regular visits. Three of this group have served, also, as ward presidents. All of these sisters work with the younger members and are an inspiration to the organization. Photograph submitted by Geneve J. Dalton, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society.