A Prince of Ur. Homespun. Abram had many charges to execute on that momentous day. He knew by this time that his father's palace was to be no longer hisdwelling place that his steps must be turned forever away; from the scenes of his childhood and from the loveliness of his native land. He knew that his own life should not be taken, for he had the promise, but others were in dire distress and danger. Moreover, he had much to do to prepare for that exodus which might come at any moment. His great library must be prepared for passage over plain and river. His delicate astronomical in- struments must be carefully packed and made ready for the camel's back. While his altar accessories, sacred as life itself, must be securely folded away by his own hands only. And most sacred of all, was the one precious relic which had come down to him from his great-grandfather Noah in a direct line for nine gen- erations — the one thing which was proof to God and His angels that Abram was the vice-gerent of God upon this earth, that he was by endowment and ordination a prophet, seer and revelator, that wondrous instrument by which Abram could commune with his Maker when it was necessary and wise. That instrument called even in those early days, the Urini and Thummim — this was to be most sacredly disposed about his own person, for in no other way could it be conveyed out of Chaldee and into that Promised Land beyond the river of waters. All this lay upon Abram's heart for careful consideration and preparation. As Abram kneeled at sunset, in the altar chamber of his high tower, he poured out his soul in agonized prayer. Abram's temper was not of the volatile and firey quality which marked the As- syrin hosts about him. His own was that superbly quiet spirit that lies like the pool of Siloam deep in the shoulders of the rock-ribbed hills;hushed and still yet ready always to be poured out in lavish warmth and fulness when the angel of the Presence touched its surfaces. Abram could be roused, but never excited. He needed time to map out his plan of action, and to mature his best wisdom. If action was required, he depended upon the Spirit of the Lord to give swiftness to his voice and to quicken his arrow. But his was rather the dee]:) and changeless sea than a trickling stream of uncertain sound and depth. He had counseled long with Lot and Eliezer. Swift runners were sent out into every camp of Shemites on the plains of Shinar. The servants had worked faith fully, had Inlinrcd quietly, and all were waiting the word 
 of command. All were loyally ready for quick marching service, if occasion required, for each of them knew the perilous condition of his master. As the evening- closed Abrani laid his tlark abaya over in, his robe, antl with quiet steps, he descended from his tower and guided his way into the park gardens of the palace. As he passed the woman's courtyard, he saw down one of the dim aisles the flutter of a scarf. His pulses leaped with human fire, for his mind was now sufficiently delivered from the fierce anxiety of his preparation and the discharge of his most sacred duty to permit his thoughts to go searching- after his beloved. And that flutter- — ing scarf might be Sarai's. Might be why, who was it? Abram stood glued to the spot. "My lord Abram?" called Iscah. "Here, come here." The voice was boldness and cajolery itself. 'Abram," she cried again, more shrilly than before. "Come hither. It is T. Iscah. Do you think my robes are regal? What say you? Shall we walk in the cool of the evening on the turret gardens?" Mardan suddenly appeared close beside them. But with a grimace and a sharp thrust of her hands, the wilful girl said, "Marc^an, go you on. I will walk with Abram. I have much to say." Then as aMrdan demurred, she threw back her head and cried loudly, "Am I a child, or am I the Princess Iscah? Shall I not be obeyed? To be a courtier of the palace of Ur requires that prince- esses shall be obeyed by courtier! Besides, Mardan, you might just as well go on, for I shall not come 'till I am quite ready. If you like, you can wait at the southern gate of the king's apart- ments. Go, like a good Mardan. there now." Mardan was too crafty to try to check the wild impulses of a half crazed girl. He knew by the smouldering fires in her eyes that her recent experience had affected her as they usually did all jealous women, with a sort of temporary insanity. She must be humored at any cost. For her possible disclosures would per- chance involve himself, and at least might warn Abram. How- ever, all that was left for him to do was to trust to the black luck which had so far followed him in all his easy.-luxury, loving life. He silently brought out his hidden phallus, and as he turned away, he kissed its revolting image to insure its protection for his superstitious mind. "Abram. dear, sweet kinsman x^bram, let me walk bv your side. I am very distraught," said Iscah. With the deep courtesy which was so much a part of his kingly nature. Abram at once turned, in spite of the distaste he felt, and kept step with the fluttering swiftness of the gavb- dcckcd maiden licside him. He was too wise to make an^- comment A PRINCE OF UR. 93 npon the high painted cheeks and Hps. the drug-widened eyes and penciled brows, the jeweled tresses, curling in studied abandon down the maiden's shoulders nor did he comment on the richly; embroidered dress which left the beautiful arms, neck, and breast of the girl fully exposed, clasped as they were with necklaces and bracelets of pearls and sapphires, with amulets and rings about her fingers. It was the first time Abram had ever seen one of the women of his father's household clad in the gala robes of the Assyrian lady of fashion. But he still said nothing to the excited girl, who chattered on by his side. He scarcely knew what to say to her, and gravely prayed to God for wisdom in this domestic crisis. 'My dear Lord Abram. 1 have reached the very turning point my life. You have never understood me" — here the vermillion in lips pouted with petulent grief — "and you have always turned aside my deepest impulses." "Nay. lady, let not thy lips deceive thy heart. If thou wilt speak truly, thou nuist say that Abram hath truly loved and would fondly cherish his kinswoman Iscah." "Aye, that would be true. But how loved?" "As truly loved as ever pure and gentle maidens should bo loved, my lady." "Nay, but even now. in my last wild extremity, you turn aside my attempts to reach your heart with your sweet phrases coined of generalities which mean nothing. Speak from thy heart, notfrom thy head." Abram. like other great and lonely natures, was quite imable to parry with craftily turned sentences, or sudden thrusts. So he retreated into silence, as was his wont. "And now. when you have nothing to say which would really save me from madness and destruction as usual in such cases in your intercourse with me. you just shut yom- close lips and will not speak at all." The wiUl. yet certain, at'fection in the girl's tone smote Aliram like a knife. "My child, ni_\' iX)or, unhappy child, speak plainly. Tell me what you mean? What reckless threat lingers in the background of your speech. Remember that Abram loves you like a brother, that he would shield you and protect you from every harm — woidd give his very life, if necessary."' "Oh, dearest and noblest of kinsmen, say that once again. Speak with trembling love in your tones like that to me always, and I will fly to the uttermost parts of the earth for you, with you. T will be vour slave, your maid-servant, bought with a price!" ^^^ith wild al)andon the p()t)r crazed girl had thrown her arms 
 about his neck and now clung to him, sobbing, chnging to him so closely that she was trembling and breathless. "My little dove, my poor little kinswoman." 'Nay, call me not by that distant hateful title of kinswoman. Call me thine own true love — call me by all those endearing titles mine ears have ached to hear from your beloved lips. Hold me close in thine arms." This outburst of passion was more than Abram was able to bear quietly, although it shook him from head to foot, he was more profoundly antagonized than words could have expressed. How had this pretty ignorant child so suddenly developed a power which he in common with good men despised when it was left to flood unliscensed over the human soul. He took the girl's arms from around his neck, and said with firmness, "Iscah, I don't pretend to deny that I have at last fathomed the cause of your strange conduct to me these last few days. I have sought to excuse and extenuate, but tonight, I can bear no more." "Shall not a maiden have the right to love?" she asked sneer- ingly, while her lips curled scornfully over the pretty white teeth. "Yes, indeed she shall. But there are two kinds of love, Iscah, as there are two kinds of religion. And the human heart that gives place to one in truth has no room to accomodate the other." "And do you mean thus to tell me that my love for you is base and false?" "I would urge you to see for yourself that love purifies, en- nobles, glorifiesman or woman who enjoys its presence. No — matter if the object of that love is never gained in life if the love be pure and constant, the future realms of Silver Light, as these Assyrians call heaven, are but the more eagerly sought, the more devotedly prepared for, in order to attain the bright fulfilment of that cherished love. The passion which is never satisfied except when selfishly gratified and ruthlessly demanded, can never do aught but degrade the human soul." — "Abram, answer me one question, do you love my kins- woman Sarai?" Abram stood with his arms folded across his breast, his eyes bent upon the groimd. Tt seemed a sacrilege to thus flaunt the name of this beautiful lady in the public alleys of the palace, and to lift his eyes to the face of this fiercely angrv and jealous rival. But he reasoned, that if he remained silent, the hope thus again kindled in the unhappy girl before him might only prolong her misery and his own sorrow. Meanwhile, the girl was watch- ing him with cat-like c\-es. His whole bodx- was crouched as if ready to spring panther-wise. Ylev arms hugged her sides closelv. " ; A PRINCE Of [JR. 95 At last, Abram spoke, "I have loved the Princess Sarai since I was a boy. And I shall love her through eternity, no matter whether I am so blessed as to claim her on this earth or not." With a cry as of a wounded animal in pain, Iscah tore his arms from his breast, and flinging herself into them, she clung to him with the desperation of madness. "O, I could kill you both for that. Sarai has always won the very things I most desired. With her beauty and her cunning powers, she has stolen from me my father's best affection the; very servants obey her gladly while they fear and dreal my ap- proach. She has gifts and graces God denied to me kings desire; her and nations conspire for her possession. O, why has this been? And now, to know at last that she has entered the citadel of a heart I have so passionately desired to capture as mine own that Sarai is the beloved of Abram as of all others whose love I so desire. — O, I could kill you both kill you both kill." — The girl sobbed and moaned while Abram tried to sooth and quiet her. Suddenly, she sprang from him, and like a tigress, she dug her nails into his bare arm. Then she hissed in his ear. — "You could have saved me if you would you could, you Remember that and now you have doomed me to the could. lowest depths of hell — ; "Nay, Iscah, I will not hear you speak so; I have had little to do with you or your love. God knows that I have been patient and fair, and very tender, but the passion you speak of does not originate in heaven, nor does it save people. Sometime, some- where, you and all others must meet the lions of fierce temptation — and conquer them, alone alone, without one soul to help or hinder you. All the acts and words of your life will go towards making of that strugggle a triumph of faith or a descent into purgatory. I could not help you from reaching that place in your life, for you must meet it here or hereafter. That trial is upon you now. This is your moment of choice. I beseech of you to think, to fight this fiend, to put far from you this wild temp- tation. Come to me, with me, fair lady, be sane, be wise." "Will you take me as your wedded wife?" she asked in low and vibrant tones. And the man bent above her sorrowing, for he knew that what he said he would do, though the heavens fell. "Yes, Lady Iscah, I will take you for my wedded wife." "And will you cast Sarai out of your heart forever and for- ever?" "You have no right to ask of me such a thing. I refuse to allow you to enter into my soul's problems thus." "Then," she cried wildly, "then it means that you would make of me just what I have always been, a dimmed star, a secondary light, a servant, a slave of proud and haughty Sarai. Nay, nay, 
 Abram, go thy way, and I shall go mine. Seek thy Sarai, but seek her on the altar of Elkanah. Either or both of you shall pay for this insult with your lives. Remember what I say. Sarai may be beautiful, but so am I. Sarai may win the king's regard, so can I. She may be the bride of a prince; I shall be the mistress — — and the priestess of the king. Ha, go thy way go thy way." With a hissing Assyrian curse upon her lips, she eluded Abram's outstretched arms, and like the comet she was, she flew through the gateway with her eunuch close behind her. As Abram started in pursuit, Mardan barred the way, with a dozen soldiers of the king's guard. Mardan smiled sneeringly as he turned and counterturned the soldiers to prevent Abram's egress from the gateway. "Abram is soon to be the king's prisoner," sneered Mardan. And thus Abram took his final way through the gardens of the palace. Iscah flew to her apartments. On her way she met Lot who confided to her ears the hurriea wedding preparations wrich were going forward for that night. Iscah scarcely heard him. She sped on. She cried out loudly, "Serim, Eros, quick, bring me coifee, bring me wine, bring me my sandals, prepare my bath." As the slaves flew to carry out her peremptory orders, a ennuch entered backwards, and prostrating himself before her, he threw up his hand in a secret sign. "What is it, Irad? Quick, speak, or thy tongue shall be!" slashed "The Cushite priestess, Zillah, waits without." The ennuch had brought Iscah good news. Her unstrung nerves, her sense of utter shame, and her new abandonment need- ed just the stimulus of this powerful priestess of a cult which had but just gained the Hebrew maiden for its votary but which lustful worship was old in all its powerful hideousness to the Cushite who waited without. "Room, room," muttered the Cushite, when she had bowed low at the couch of her mistress. Priestess she might be, but in the household of Terah which claimed her presence, Zillah was still the bondwoman of the princess whose father had bought her in the open market place. "Leave us alone," cried Iscah loudly to her attendants. They all scampered at her tone, fairly falling over each other in their endeavor to get behind the door draperies, and then out beyond, the corridors. Only the eunuch remained behind, standing silent but menacing enough, a figure carved as if in bronze marble, just beside the curtained entrance to the chamber. With another sign, Zillah looked furtively at the eunuch. But Iscah said savagelv, A PRINCE OF UR. 97 "Say on, thou bird of ill-omen, I will not send my bod}-- g'uard away. His ears have outlets only behind my own tongue. Speak on, I say." Zillah looked with some natural apprehension at her young mistress. Impatient and quick-spoken, proud Iscah had always been but there was a metallic ring to her voice, a glare of; smouldering fire behind her eyes that made even the hardened black wench wince with fear. "My gracious princess, queen of loveliness and lady of the Silver Light, I have come to thee with news most important." "Well, cease thy sophistries, for I have now graduated in thine own bestial university; tell thy quick, unvarnished tale. Quick, I say!" "Princess, knowest thou that the Prince Abram has come under the dire displeasure of the Emperor Nimrod? He has sought to prevent the very noble and glorious offering of mine own husband's daughters on the dedicatory altar of Elkanah to- morrow night. Moreover, he has presumed to argue on points of religious doctrine with the very God Nimrod-Merodach, speak- ing blasphemy, in the presence of the Father god, the Lord of the Alabaster House, the Lord duly returning! Nimrod is justly of- fended and has decreed the quick punishment of Abraham." "Wait, Zillah," cried the princess, her brows knitting in sud- den pain. She had no intention of allowing such meddling with her own angry punishment of her Cousin Abram, for she was cunning enough to hope she could devise ways to bring him yet bending to her feet, if she could but be left alone. "Hold, I say. What fool has been prating our afifairs to Nimrod?" "Sarai, my mistress, 'twas thy Cousin Sarai, sweet mistress" and the wicked voice of the Cushite rolled again and again this sweet morsel over her huge lips as she repeated the name in oily accents. "Sarai? Tell me the story." Thereupon, the black woman detailed the interview between Sarai and the emperor, and the terrible scene which had followed. But there she paused. Her cunning brain taught her how to pre- pare her climax so to bring about the fierce storm she knew would rage. "So! Sarai has been meddling with my business. She has betrayed my generous intentions to his gracious majesty of of- fering my slave-girls to dedicate the new altar! But I fancy Nim- rod gave her no thanks for trying to stop the glorious sacrifice hey?" "Nay, nay, princess, quite the contrary." "And Sarai? What said Nimrod when he saw her?" " " — ! 98 RliLllil' SOClEiy MAGAZINE. "The emperor, he was quite undone, your highness. He gaped at her with both open eyes and mouth. He was hke to one crazy. He let his great chops down as if they were a secret door opened, and they ready to close over her beauteous lips." "Pah, Cushite wench, you sicken me!" Indeed the rush of swift memory of her own recent.bitter humiliating experiences had notfaded, nor had her passions yet seized upon the blackest chambers of her secret soul. Poor misguided damsel She stood at the threshold of her whole eternal existence. The small vanities, the crude selfishnesses of her petty vagaries, the subtle and captivating coqueteries of her youthful impulses had now been changed into the very snares and fires of the deepest hell. But at its mouth, she stood with terrified gaze, her own slendf^r feet half unwilling now to enter into that awful vortex of human depravity. Her delicate sensibilities were still dreading to fasten upon her body the chains which would sink with cor- roding fetters into her very vitals and soon or late destroy her, body and soul. At such moments, the sum of our existence is told by the lifting of an eyebrow, the tone of a voice, the lilt of a song, the lack of a prayer, and the absence of an angel. O, where was Iscah's angel? There stood before Iscah only the leering face of that Cushite devil in woman's form — and she subtle wench that she was; lifted up her head with proud abandon, feigning indifference, as she said with studied accents of light import: "That is not all your Cousin Sarai hath done." "No? Then quickly tell the rest. Or out of my presence you will pack, forever, or I will have Irad fling you out head first." The woman threw up her head proudly. She was no coward. "Guard thy tongue, princess though thou art, or I shall lift mine hand seven times to Elkaneh with thy name upon my lips." This dark threat of some unknown evil curse, quelled the irritable girl, but she still stamped her delicate foot impatiently. "Go on," she cried. "The princess Sarai has learned of the determination of the emperor, and she has incited her brother Lot to sly rebellion against his father and his king. Lot is now gathering the shep- herd forces of the tribe of Tereh, and this night they will be scat- tered amongst the soldiery of the king, as they ascend the temple Asurprise will not be difficult, and in the confusion, sanctuary. Abram and Sarai — "Abram and Sarai, say you — "Aye, your highness, Abram and Sarai! Know you not of their love? They will escape to the plains outside, and then ho for liberty and a foreign land." ! ! A PRINCE OF UR. 99 — "We shall see we shall see," cried Iscah, as she led the way furiously to the palace gardens. — "Ho, slaves approach, quick," cried Iscah as she regained her apartments. And the now angry and wildly excited princess clapped her hands with furious impetuosity. "Here, all of you, quick, my bath, my royal robes, my jewels, my perfumes, my gods, — aye every one of those precious little augurs. Bring them all Throw incense before them, bring me my phallus, wreath it in roses of Damask, and bear it before me. I shall seek the halls of the emperor. If he desires to see beautiful women, shall I not be there? Zillah, is not my face as fair, my hair as dusky, my lips as seductive as can be claimed by my hated Lady Sarai?" The slaves flew hither and thither, in vain endeavors to exe- cute the crazed orders of their mistress. Zillah saw the havoc she had wrought, and fearing lest her plans would not mature, she said craftily, "Let my princess be assured that if the Lord of the Alabaster House once gazes upon her countenance, his eyes will never leave her face. But be not too hasty. Kings like the fruit which hangs too high for mortal plucking. Let me summon Mardan. He shall excite the curiosity of our lord the king, and thou shalt come in after. Meanwhile, shall not Sarai be taught her lesson? Why shall not the altars of Merodach be purified and cleansed by the blood of the daughter of this house, Sarai? What thinkest thou? Let me summon Mardan." "'Tis my own plan, Zillah. Let me but catch the ear of Nim- rod, and I will risk my powers to please and thus secure my will. Bring Mardan. That is well put. He will help me, that I know." The running of many feet, the tiring of many maidens, with quick and trembling hands, were all too slow for the fierce and jealous anger of the Princess Iscah. But she soon had Prince Mardan beside her, even as she was robing, and shame now hav- ing left her, she laughed in wild abandon at his wily pleasantries concerning her exposed beauty and her power to allure. Woe is Iscah What vortex is too deep for the foot of a jeal- ! ous woman, whose passion is lashed by selfishness and driven by vanity As they entered the inner courtyard, Mardan halted. He had been commissioned to deliver Sarai that night into the arms of Nimrod. His own puzzled brains were at work to both satisfy and to defeat his father and king. That he. Mardan would try to convey Sarai into the precients of the temple of Mylitta, except when he himself were the ruling spirit and priest of the voluptu- ous spot, was quite out of the question. But he well knew that liis life would not be w^orthy half a maneh unless that peremptory 
 order was compiled with. So here was Mardan, and here was the night coming on. What was to be done? "Mardan" — called Iscah impatiently —"how may I see the king? I must see him, and see him I will, if the stars fall at my feet as I reach his throne." "That is very easy, the seeing of my father. But why? Tell me of thy trouble, for I can tell that trouble is there from the flash of thy bright eyes and the scarlet of thy cheek. Tell me. kinswoman, thou canst trust Mardan." "Tush, Mardan, 1 knew thee and thy ways. But still I say, find I have my speech a-preparing." me a way to reach the king. — "The very thing" for a scheme flashed across Mardan's quick brain. The haunting image and likeness of Iscah to Sarai, so often a provoking and a dismal illusion, would now make Sarai 's safety sure and would also be the greatest possible earthly glory to this passionate girl who was determined to throw her life away on a single act of vengeance or spite. "I have an idea," he said ingratiatingly, too subtle to show the girl his real mind, but quite content to lead her on through her vindictiveness to her own utter ruin. "Canst thou attire thy- self like Sarai? Canst thou robe thyself and tire thy hair, and so enrich thy carriage that the king will think thee Sarai?"' "Why should I try to be aught but myself? Am I not proud and lovely. vSarai's equal in beauty, and far surpassing her in warmth and alluringness?" Mardan smiled into his discreet hand, as he said in oily tones, "Thou damsel. art a peerless The stars would swing in their courses to pay thee homage and make thee their moon if thou were one of them. But your highness, the king hath seen Sarai, and hath not seen thee. So that he hath bethought himself to send by me his gracious invitation to Sarai to come to the Pavilion of Mylitta this very night and there be glorified by entrance into the Babylonian cult through his own gracious per- son. Now, as I look upon thy radiant beauty, it hath occurred to me that if the king were to see thee approach him in thy splendor, yet veiled as becometh a Shemmite maiden, he w^ould surely be- stow upon thee the full glory of his love, and it would be most easy for thee to thereafter disposess him of his last design and thyself become his queen, the high priestess who shall herself give the royal portents from her couch of gold in the Ziggurat in Nippur. To be the wife of Abram would be a small thing but to be the queen of Nimrod — Nimrod the mightiest hiuiter since time — began and till time shall end this is an honor that should fix the ambition of any daughter of man." (to be continued.) Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. China is once more a monarchy —and a good field for another revolution. Football fatalities have become so numerous as to suggest "safety first" for a timely college "yell." "Made in Utah," or even "made in America." will not fit some of the furnishings of the new State Capitol which have been shipped from foreign countries at great expense, and not of necessity. Sugar statistics show Utah to be the fourth in production among the beet sugar states, California, Colorado and Michigan being ahead. Another Utah beet sugar factory for Box Elder County has been decided on. The Presidential campaign of 1916 is fairly inaugurated by the selection of Chicago as the place for one of the two great national conventions, and St. Louis for the other place the Re- ; publicans on June 7 and the Democrats on June 14, respectively. War-preparedness as a safeguard for peace is one of the chief arguments urged by the ultra-advocates of a big army and navy for the United States. It hasn't seemed to work that way re- cently in Europe. Reduction of taxes is sought by farmers' organizations in Cache County. A considerable reduction in the unnecessarily large number of public employes would help to check the evil complained of. Recruiting for the British army in five days from the 7th of December brought 2,000,000 new men into the field for war. The British nation seems at last to be awakened to the seriousness of the struggle in which the nations of the Old World are engaged. "Profanity" — In discussing this subject an influential New York journal remarks: "Nothing can be said in favor of swear- ing. As a habit it is disgusting." Yet the must notable display of vulgar language and swearing in public seems to be observed among peace officers chosen to protect public morals. 
 Marquis and Lady Aberdeen, who visited Utah in December, in the interest of the Aberdeen fund for the betterment of social and industrial conditions in Ireland, were given a most cordial reception in this state, and appear to be fully appreciative of the hearty welcome accorded them. Six hours as a full laboring-day is the demand made by the building trades department of the American Federation of Labor. Possibly that is so the men may go home and do the washing and cleaning for their over-worked wives. Educational purposes in Utah get 88.1 per cent of the state taxes, or 64.5 per cent of all the state revenues comprised under regular state taxes, licenses, inheritance tax, etc., as shown in the report of the state auditor. This is a very liberal endowment for the state toward its educational institutions. Turkish atrocities in putting to death 15,000 Armenians at Bitlis consisted in forcibly extracting fingernails and toenails of their victims, knocking out their teeth, whittling ofif noses, assault- ing the women, and putting the doomed human beings to death under lingering, shocking agony. Henry Ford and his peace-mission associates did not find the European field prepared for their activities, at present. The ini- tiated will understand that the present world-war is not to be terminated so long as the Turkish government is classed among the dominant factors in world-politics. Free speech in the United States Senate is likely to prevail in the present session of Congress, since the party now in the ma- jority there could not agree on a cloture rule. A strangling of free speech among the Senate solons likely would give more real cause for complaint than an occasional filibuster has done. Austria and the United States were said to be on the verge of a breach of official relations, owing to the American demands for apology and reparation in the case of Americans killed in the sinking of the Ancona; but Austria, no more than Germany, could aflFord to defend the unprovoked killing of neutrals on unarmed ships at sea, so she has punished the guilty officer. "Throw spelling books into the furnace," advocated H. B. Wilson, superintendent of schools at Topeka, Kansas, at the Utah Educational Association convention in Salt Lake City during the winter holidays. The extremely bad spelling in communications