CURRENT TOPICS. ' 103 publication, received by the press throughout the country, for from people (not excluding school teachers) indicates that Mr. Wilson's advice is altogether superfluous. The Suez Canal is being threatened by Germany, Austria and Turkey, and is being fortified as a base for the advance of British and French troops into Turkey through Syria, along the western slopes of Palestine, where the latter forces will be within reach of support in men and munitions from a war fleet in the Mediter- ranean. Truly Syria is a prospective sanguinary field. An anti-suffragist, Mrs. George, of Brookline, Mass., went before the U. S. Senate suffrage committee and endeavored to turn the Senators there against the equal suffrage amendment by injecting anti-"Mormon" prejudice in behalf of her contention. Fortunately, Senator George Sutherland of Utah was present, and under his questioning Mrs. George was brought to the necessity of retracting some of her falsehoods against the "Mormon" people. Bagdad, in the valley of the Euphrates, once withstood the assault of more than 300,000 men. The British tried to take it with less than 30,000, against a much superior force of Turks, and have been forced back 95 miles along the Euphrates, after getting to within ten miles of the city. The next effort will be by a much increased army, which Britain now has available. Foreign official representatives in this country may yet learn how to confine their warlike proclivities to their immediate antag- onists and to outside of American soil, if the United States gov- ernment continues its activity against those who violate neutrality in Uncle Sam's dominion under the cloak of official guests. Two representatives of Germany have been required to go home, an- other is under indictment and arrest, and still others are being investigated as within suspicion of criminality. Parental control appears to be relegated to the background in some of the Eastern states, according to an influential New York newspaper, which says: "If the children don't rule the house- hold, they at least shape their own course with scant respect for the wishes of their parents. The rudeness of boys is only matched by the brazenness of girls you pass on the streets." Un- fortunately, this word-picture is descriptive of conditions occa- sionally observed in more western localities. —— : : —