Query Box. Conducted by Haael Love Dwiford. We are opening this month a department for the asking and answering of questions, covering any and all phases of woman's interests. We have secured the services of a trained domestic scientist, who is a mother of several young children, herself a broad-minded, intelligent Latter-day Saint worker, in private and public affairs. We invite the attention and co-operation of our readers and friends. There is, of course, no charge attached to answers. But if you wish personal information which cannot be answered in this Department, send stamps for reply. Address questions to Query Department, 1 , Room 29, Bishops Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Query Department Recently I wore a white chiffon waist: with my navy blue suit. When I came home I was horrified to find my waist was badly discolored under the arms. Is there any way I can remove the coloring? Mrs. L. C. Y., Salt Lake. Mrs. L. C. Y. : Try dipping the discolored part of your waist in a little ammonia. Editor of the Query Department My husband is very: fond of brown gravy. How can I satisfy him in this regard, and still have my meat just a nice brown. Are the colorings I buy in store harmful? Mary B., Centerville. Mary B. No, the colorings, such as Kitchen Bouquet, etc., : are not harmful, but are expensive. Try this recipe for home- made colorings 2 c. sugar. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 1 c. water. 2 bay leaves. 1 t. salt. Put the sugar in a granite pan, or frying pan, and brown until it is almost burnt. Then add the seasonings and simmer slowly thirty minutes and bottle it. It will keep indefinitely. Query Department Will you kindly give me a good recipe: Fanny D., Kanab, Utah. for potato soup? FannyD., Kanab: All cream soups are made much the same. They are composed of white sauce with some vegetable to flavor and a little seasoning, such as salt, pepper and onion. : . QUERY BOX. 105 Potato Soup 1 c. mashed potatoes. 2 tb. butter. 1 qt. milk. 2 tb. flour. 1 t. salt. 1 small onion. Pepper. 1 t. minced parsley. Scald milk thicken with the flour stirred with a little cold; milk. Add potato and strain. Add butter and seasonings. When scalding the milk put in the onion. Dear Editor My little boy is a very rapid eater. I know: it not good for him to bolt his food as he does. Can you sug- is gest any way I could break him of this habit. E. M., American — Fork. E. M., American Fork You are right when you say you: know it is not good for your child when he swallows his food whole. I would suggest that you take time to sit down with him and tell him a story while he eats. For instance, while he eats bread and milk, tell him how the old cow walks around in the pas- ture picking out the very best grasses, and there she lies in the shade and chews and chews so slowly on every bite, and in this way you will find the child will soon get. the habit of eating slowly and chewing his food well. I have been looking for a good vacuum sweeper. Can you giveme any information as to kinds, and their relative value? Thanking you in advance, I am Yours truly, Mrs. Mable. Mrs. Mable: There are many different vacuum sweepers on the market, ranging in price for from five to twelve dollars. A good company will always give you a trial, and you can use their sweeper and see how it works, for yourself. There are several different sweepers recommended that do good work. Some of these are the Bissel, the E. Z., and the Argyle. The Argyle is ex- pensive, but does the work thoroughly. Any woman who wishes to make her work easy should have a sweeper in her home. It saves work in many different ways. . Question in Genealogy: How shall we record a child, when only the sex is given, as "son" or "daughter"? Answer: Record exactly as written, as: John Smith. Mrs. Mary Smith. Child. John daughter. Mary son any evidence that the son or daughter became old If there is enough for baptism, record them as "Mr. Smith" or "Miss Smith.