XVIII JANUARY, 1931 No. 1931 Welcome Cl bells are ringing out a requiem mass for the old year and a welcoming challenge to the new.

Nineteen thirty with its joys and sorrows, its achievements and failures, has passed into history, and 1931, with its hopes and promises and possibilities is here.

There is something sad in the passing of the old; there is something mystic in the birth of the new.

W* send hearty good wishes and Happy New Year Greetings to all our officers, members.

And magazine readers.

We deeply appreciate the many greetings and good wishes we have received during the Holiday Season.

It is sweet to be remembered and to know that there is a feeling of good will and fellowship existing between those who labor together in this great cause.

The past year has seen much suffering.

The way people have given of their time and money and substance to alleviate the hardships of the unemployed has shown that never heretofore were so many people socially minded, so deeply interested in the welfare of the unfortunate and needy.

The largess has been unprecedented.

Farmers, merchants, coal dealers, milk distributors, and bakers have given as never before to agencies for a wise distribution to the needy The employees of many firms have given a day's salary a month that work might be provided for the unemployed.

Mayors, governors, congressmen, senators, the President of the United Editor Mary Connelly Kimball.  States, have been deeply concerned and anxious that public work be undertaken to lessen the suffering.

Cities, counties and states have undertaken public improvements that work might be provided for the unemployed.

Our Relief Society officers and members have worked more diligently than ever in helping the hard pressed.

MAY the year which has just been ushered in bring a return to normalcy.

May people learn through the pressure of the past few months to provide in the days of prosperity for the time of unemployment and sickness and financial depression.

May all emerge from the clouds which have been so lowering into a saner and more stable way, of living.

May your opportunities for service be greater than ever before and may your work be more efficiently done.

May blessings unmeasured be yours.

May your cup of joy be full.

May peace and wisdom be your portion during 1931. Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, General Presidency of the Relief Society.