[Vol18 | January 1931 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Prohibition]


Massing for Prohibition's Greatest Drive No wonder public sentiment against prohibition is gaining.

Often the press seems to avoid printing the dry side of the story.

Facts favoring prohibition are frequently lost in a maze of wet propaganda.

Often items concerning prohibition are twisted into an argument against prohibition... A Federal officer is killed by a bootlegger with a criminal record of twenty years, and, the news headline is "snooper killed." Unfortunately for the common good, facts are distorted; editorials are often assaults on prohibition; nothing is left unturned by the wet radical papers to discredit the greatest moral reform of the century.

The majority of the people in the most populous centers of the United States form their opinion from the mass of liquor propaganda.

Why shouldn't they wonder about the benefits of prohibition?

Why shouldn't they begin to think or act against the Eighteenth Amendment?

It's time to do something.

Let's give the people the facts about prohibition.

Despite the excellent work done by the religious and other law-upholding publications of the nation in telling the true story, much work is yet to be done.

We must reach the masses, who read only the daily newspapers, whose thoughts, actions and votes, are controlled by the papers.

LET'S HAVE THE TRUTH ABOUT PROHIBITION The American Business Men's Prohibition Foundation is incorporated in Illinois "not for profit" And is a voluntary association organized to collect, correlate and disseminate facts regarding the results of National Prohibition and its relation to the welfare and progress of the people of the United States.

Advisory Board FRANCIS E. BALDWIN P. W. MORGAN Manufacturer, N. Y. Banker, WILLIAM LOWE BRYAN W. R. NICHOLSON, JR. Pres. Indiana Univ.

Manufacturer, ANDREW B. CRICHTON Philadelphia JAMES C. PENNEY Merchant MRS. JOHN F. SIPPEL Pres. Gen. Fed.

Of Women's Clubs JOHN TIMOTHY STONE FRANKLIN S. HARRIS Pres. Brigham Young Univ.

R. J. KITTREDGE Manufacturer, Let's give them the real facts: that drinking has decreased; that crime has lessened; that the death rate has been lowered; that the standard of living has been raised; that the nation as a whole as well as the individual has been materially benefited.

The people should know the truth about prohibition.

Only the truth, told now in a forceful manner, will save prohibition.

The American Business Men's Prohibition Foundation after months of exhaustive research has gathered, the facts that prove conclusively the great success of prohibition.

It has given the facts.

Through its press bureau, to the newspapers of the country.

Papers that are fair have printed them.

But many wet papers have ignored them—and it is to the twenty millions of readers of the wet press that we must give the facts.

To reach this mass of readers— most of whom are fair-minded and who will appreciate the truth —this Foundation is going to advertise nation-wide.

Full pages of paid newspaper advertising will be published in wet as well as dry papers—to reach everybody!

The work of spreading the truth to the largest reading public can be accomplished in no better manner.

Paid advertisements will tell the actual facts as they exist.

HERBERT T. AMES Lawyer, Pennsylvania WILLIAM LOWE BRYAN Coal Mines, Pennsylvania ZANE GREY Author Chicago HENRY M. LELAND Manufacturer, Detroit S. S. MCCLURE Editor, Publisher J. KNOX MONTGOMERY Pres. Muskingum College Pennsylvania MRS. H. W. PEABODY Chairman, Woman's Nat.

Com.

For Law Enforcement CYRUS H. MCCORMICK McCormick Harvester Chicago MASTER NATIONAL GRANGE FLOYD W. TOMKINS Author, Pa.
