[Vol18 | January 1931 | Sequence: 21a | Category: Article | Title: Notes to the Field]

Notes to the Field The Board hopes through this department to keep in closer touch with the stake workers.

As soon as your Magazine comes, turn to this page to get the latest word from the General Board Social Work Contemplate the scope of social work" all conscious effort to help human beings, including mass betterment as well as individual betterment"—-comes under its aegis.

It includes preventive as well as corrective work., With this in mind, one sees the many problems that may engage the Relief Society worker.

We thought a special number of our Magazine, giving the history of social service and some of the work being done among us, would be interesting and profitable to our readers.

Magazine Agents We cannot publish the honor roll promised in our letter of August 6, 1930, until more of our stakes send in the information asked for.

Kindly let us know at once what your membership was in 1930 and how many Magazines were subscribed for in your stake.

What is your membership in 1931 and how many subscriptions have you sent in for this year?

In response to our 'August 6, 1930, asking that a house to house canvass be made in the interest of Magazine subscriptions, Grant Stake Board offered a prize of ten annual subscriptions to the ward that should get the highest percentage of its members as subscribers, and five annual subscriptions to the ward that should secure second place in the contest.

Later, a third prize of five annual subscriptions was given, as one ward had made such an exceptional record in both letter of yearly and half-yearly subscriptions.

Burton ward won the first prize with this record: membership, 69, yearly subscriptions, 62, half-yearly subscriptions, 10. Whittier ward secured second prize, with 58 yearly subscribers among their membership of 65. The third prize went to Southgate ward, with a membership of 41, which secured 23 yearly subscribers and 34 half-yearly subscribers.

We congratulate Grant stake, which is the first, and at the present time, the only stake which has sent in the information asked for in our above mentioned letter.

In 1929 they had 465 subscribers, or 43% of their enrollment.

This year (1930) they have 652 subscribers, or 52% of their enrollment.

Subscription Lists Relief Society Presidents: Kindly instruct your Magazine agents to state which month to begin subscriptions with when sending in orders for the Magazine, so as to avoid duplications, as it is our custom to commence subscriptions with the current issue, unless directed otherwise.

The Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest The interest in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest increases from year to year.

There were 77 entries this year, eight more than for 1929. The winner of the first prize is Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson of Rexburg, Idaho, for "Abraham Lincoln." The second prize is awarded to Merling D. Clyde of Price, Utah, for "Unto the Least of These," Honorable mention is given to Claire Stewart Boyer of Salt Lake City, for "Up Past the Stars to God," Edith E. Anderson of Tremonton, Utah, for "To a Relief Society Worker,' and to Katheryn L. Clyde, Heber City, Utah, for "My Masterpiece." The judges of the contest were Dr. Sherman B. Neff, head of the English Department of the University of Utah; Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley, associate editor of the Improvement Era; and Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter of the General Board.

We congratulate the winners and express appreciation for the many excellent poems that were submitted.

Give Alloted Time to Class Leaders The success of our meetings, as well as our educational program, depends upon the efficiency of our Class Leaders.

When these faithful women spend hours, often days, preparing their topics, it is discouraging to have the lesson period shortened.

Reports frequently reach the General Board that Class Leaders are curtailed in the time for giving lessons.

One capable, enthusiastic sister prepared a Theology Lesson, expecting to have forty-five minutes for the presentation.

Meeting began a few minutes late, full fifteen minutes were used in singing practice; a Stake Board member in attendance was asked to speak, and twenty-five minutes time was reserved for testimony bearing, leaving far too short a period for the Theology Lesson with its vital and inspiring message.

The General Board recommends that announcements be made when the meeting is called to order; that as far as possible the business of the Society such as receiving new members etc. Be transacted in Work and Business Meeting; that there be no singing practice on Theology and Testimony day.

We hope our Presidents will carefully plan their meetings and not permit anything to interfere with the time allotted to our Class Leaders.

Music in Our Organization Choristers and Organists, how are you succeeding with the music in your organization?

Is it representative of your ideals?

Are you using successfully the ten minutes allowed for good lively community song practice?

Are you teaching new songs and creating a renewed interest in good singing?

Does the music in your ward reflect the standards of our people?

Is the character of the music in your organization such as would attract and increase the enrollment of new members?

Is the music of your organization keeping pace with the other fine intellectual activities of the Relief Society?

Are you yourself so enthusiastic over your work that your enthusiasm is contagious?

Choristers and Organists, emphasize a more active participation in music on the part of the Relief Society members.

Help them to realize the value of preserving in adult life the musical aptitudes which were developed through public school music, and other musical activities.

The product of this training must have found its way into our Relief Society groups.

Try to establish in the hearts of our sisters this idea, this desire.

Hear Music, Make Music, Enjoy Music.

Let us all remember there are no age limits to music—that music is the real fountain of youth.

Music is a sacred, a divine thing that lifts us up to God.

(Continued from page 43)

*Special Instruction For Choristers and Organists:*

DURING the month of January a specially designed course for stake and ward choristers and organists will be commenced in Idaho Falls, Logan, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Provo, Ephraim, and Richfield. The course, which will be made up of six free lessons given over a period of six weeks, has been outlined by the General Music Committee of the Church with the assistance of the Church's music institution, the McCune School of Music and Art, and six prominent music leaders from the faculty of that school have been selected to present subjects included in the course.

These instructors are: Edward P. Kimball, Organist of the Tabernacle; Lester Hinchcliff, Director of the Ogden Tabernacle Choir; C. W. Reid, former director of the music department of the B. Y. University; Anthony C. Lund, Director of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir; Reginald Beales, violinist and teacher of violin and ensemble groups at the McCune School of Music and Art; and Tracy Y. Cannon, Director ot the McCune School and former organist of the Tabernacle.

This valuable series of lectures and class discussions is intended not alone for the Church musicians in the centers mentioned; it is sincerely hoped by the General Boards of all the Auxiliaries that all the music officers in their organizations within convenient traveling distance of a class meeting-place will attend the six classes. The first class in each

locality will be given on the following dates: January 5, Ephraim; January 10, Logan; January 12, Richfield; January 17, Provo; January 19, Salt Lake City; January 24, Ogden; Januay 26, Idaho Falls.

We especially urge all choristers and organists in our Relief Society organization to take advantage of this exceptional opportunity wherever possible.

This instruction is given to the Relief Society free, through the courtesy of the General Board.

*The Russell Sage Foundation:*

THE Russell Sage is one of the seven great foundations, and is an institution established in 1907 by Mrs. Russell Sage, with an endowment of ten million dollars. The purpose of this was to establish a Foundation for the improvement of social and living conditons in the United States. The Foundation does not attempt to relieve individual or family needs, but merely to study and investigate, in order to eradicate the causes of distress The work is distributed among several departments, including the Charity Organization Department, the Department, of Industrial Studies, Division of Remedial Loans, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, the Division of Recreation, Division of Publication of Library and Statistics.

It is with the Charity Organization and with the Library and Statistics and Survey, that the Relief Society has had most contact. The Charity Organization Department

has made studies of Marriage Administration in the several states, with the object of announcing a year minimum age law for girls. The Division of Recreation has done much to develop the Community Center idea, the Division of Remedial Loans has thrown light on the methods of loan sharks, and has promoted co-operative Loan Societies. Through its library many of the very finest works on social service have been published and made available at a minimum cost. The Foundation has also supervised the development of the model suburban community at Forest Hills, Long Island.

The Department of Surveys and Exhibits has, by constant effort, kept the community informed of its problems, and therefore has served as a great educator of public opinion. It is in the Department of Surveys that the present Year Book has been completed, and is the most comprehensive thing of its kind ever attempted in the United States.

When assembling the material for the Social Service Year Book, Mr. Fred S. Hall, the editor wrote to the secretary of the Relief Society, and expressed his thought that the book would not be complete without an article on "Mormon Social Work," Mrs. Lund wrote the article asked for and we are happy to have it appear in this valuable book.



