[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: His Wifes Talents]

His Wife's Talents. By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. "O, by the way, Kate, I met Blanche Norris this morning and she wanted me to ask you if you would play in an entertainment. The Relief Society is going to give next week to raise funds for our stricken Saints in Europe." Congratulating himself on his memory, Frank Ashton folded his napkin and pushed back his chair. "Me play in a public entertainment!" gasped his wife. For goodness sake, Frank, what did you tell her?" "Why, I told her I was sure you would be glad to do so and thanked her for giving you a chance. You don't get out enough, my dear. There is no need for women staying as closely at home as most of you do. You would make better wives if you didn't. I hope you won't miss an opportunity like playing in this entertainment." Kate swallowed hard to keep back the tears that suddenly sprang to her eyes. Why couldn't men understand? She had a mingled feeling of self-pity and resentment, but she said as calmly as possible, "Why, Frank, you ought to know that I could no more play the piano in a public entertainment than Kathryn could." It was the husband's turn to look surprised now. "Well, I should think you would hate to admit that all the time and money you spent on a musical education has been wasted," he remarked critically. "You know very well, Frank, that I have scarcely touched the piano since we were married and it doesn't take six years to forget a good deal of music." "Well, why haven't you been practicing up? You have a piano now." (He had surprised her with one on her birthday two weeks before.) "What do you suppose I sunk five hundred dollars in a piano for, anyway, if you are not going to do anything with it? You know I have felt guilty ever since we were married to think that you were giving up your music because I could not afford a piano for you. So the first five hundred I could clear above actual necessities went for that. That five hundred would have bought five shares in the new Irrigation Company and would have netted us a hundred dollars a year and maybe more. Not every man would miss a chance to go into a paying proposition like that just to give his wife something he thought she would enjoy, I thought you would at least appreciate my side of it." "I do, Frank. It was lovely of you. But you don't know — I hardly have time to dust the piano, let alone to practice on it." Again Mr. Ashton looked his surprise. "Well, if I remember correctly when I first met you you were teaching fifty children, and still you found time to practice then, and to play in every entertainment that came along. It is the strangest thing to me how easily you women give up your talents and ambitions. You never see us men settling down so completely that we forget all the interests we had when we were boys. What would the world come to if we did? But you women — here you have only four children to take care of now, instead of fifty, and yet you say you haven't time to practice. Why, Kate you were the best pianist in the country when I married you. Why do you want to bury your talent? It is not right. I don't understand." This was no news to Kate. But how could she make him understand? When she married she had made up her mind to keep all the petty little worries of the home to herself. If the man earned the bread, she told herself, the woman should not trouble him with how it was to be mixed and baked and eaten. And so she had done her best to make her home attractive and cheerful, and had kept all her own difficulties and perplexities in the background. And now it seemed to Frank that the keeping of a five-roomed cottage and the care of four small children was a mere pastime. The man saw that somehow he had hurt his wife, so he mollified his tone as he continued. "I don't mean to be harsh, my dear, but I'm really in earnest. You have a wonderful talent in music and I don't want you to neglect it. You say you haven't time to practice. Let me give you a recipe to make time. Plan your work. Go at it systematically as we men do in our business. That's the secret of success every time. System. That's the whole thing in a nut shell. Try it, my dear, and I'm sure you'll find that you have time on your hands." Glancing at his watch, Mr. Ashton grabbed his hat, and hastily kissing his wife goodbye left the room. He poked his head in at the door a moment later, however, and exclaimed irritably, "What do you suppose those youngsters have been doing? They've driven my bicycle tires full of nails. It seems to me that they are always up to some such mischief and they ought to know better. They need a little systematic discipline. Now this means that I will be late to the office, and no doubt a new pair of tires as well. You must look after them a little closer, Kate, or I don't know what the little reprobates will come to." Kate sighed as she went to the front porch where the culprits, the five-year-old twins, Farrel and Barrel, a little subdued by their father's reprimand, were trying to think of some new outlet to
their overabundance of energy. She took them to the back of the house and improvised a work-bench before she went in to clear up the table. Naturally she fell to thinking of what Frank had said. She wondered if she could plan her work a little better and find time to practice. She would try. Now, this afternoon there was the dinner work to do up, the beds were not made, there were the basement shelves to clean and Kathryn's dress to finish. Perhaps if she hurried and could keep at it she could get through before supper time. She began to sing as she worked, with this thought in mind. "Mama, please dress my dolly, and see, she is bleeding sawdust." It was three-year-old Kathryn holding up her wounded baby for mother's help. Kate wiped off the sink and washed her hands, then took the doll and mended and dressed it. This done she hurried down to the basement shelves, hoping to get this task finished before the baby awoke. She had just started, however, when his cry called her, and with a little sigh she thought how futile after all are a mother's plans. She took the baby up and gave him something to eat, then setting him in the high-chair went back to her work. Before she had finished she had stopped once to do up a twin's thumb, again to put the baby into his buggy and wheel him onto the lawn where the children could amuse him, and once more to rescue a doll's bonnet from the irrigating ditch where a teasing brother had thrown it. It was now almost four o'clock and the dress had not been touched. Kate was not easily discouraged, however, and decided to leave the sewing and practice a little just to make a start and to convince Frank that she did have an interest in her music, even if she had uncomplainingly given it up to the service of him and their babies. She hurriedly slipped on a fresh dress and went into the parlor, glancing out of the window to see that the children were all right, and sat down at the piano. As her fingers wandered carelessly over the ivory keys she felt all her old passion for her art returning. If she only could have an hour or so with her music every day, how much it would add to life for her. She went on picking up old forgotten melodies one after another, and living over the carefree days that had gone with them. She forgot the children; she forgot the present and was again pretty Kate Wheeler pouring out her soul in exquisite sound. A baby's frightened scream brought her back to the world of reality. She rushed outside just in time to see Barrel drag the baby from the ditch. The other three children resembled so many muddy, bedraggled rats. 
 Just then Frank entered the gate. "Why, what in the world does this mean?" he demanded. "It means that I took your advice and tried to practice a few moments on the piano," Kate answered, snatching up the baby and hurrying into the house to hide the tears of vexation that choked her. After the children had been bathed and fed and put to bed, and Frank and Kate sat at their own supper, he remarked thoughtfully, "I've been thinking, Kate, about your music and I think I have a plan." "Please don't mention it, then," she replied rather sharply. "I can see plainer than anyone else that it is impossible. Since I am the loser, why worry about it?" "Now, Kate, you have the wrong attitude. You are not the only loser if you bury your talent, and I am going to see that you do not do it." "Are you going to hire a nurse to take care of the children while I practice?" she demanded sarcastically. Her husband flushed. "You know I would if I could, but since I can't do that I'm going to offer myself." It was Kate's turn to be surprised. "Now, I'm sure you found time to practice today and all would have gone well if it had not been for the youngsters. Here's my plan. I am going to bring some of my work home every afternoon and relieve you for an hour or so. Abstracts and documents like that I can do just as well here as at the office. You see I take the active part of the office work in the forenoon anyhow, so can easily arrange this plan with McGregor. I'll take the whole responsibility so you can be perfectly free with your music. It will be a good thing for me and the youngsters as well. Why, I'll have to admit that I hardly know the little beggars. And the twins, I can see, really need a father's discipline." Kate smiled at the first part of the proposition a little doubtfully, but suddenly she acquiesced with the thought that if she did not gain much from the arrangement musically, Frank's eyes might be opened to some things he had not seen before. Accordingly, the next day found Frank leaving the office at three o'clock, hurrying toward home with a roll of legal blanks in one hand and a couple of law books in the other. (to be continued.)