[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: A Prince of Ur]

A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. The long, winding stone steps, leading from terrace to terrace in the eastern corner of the palace of Ur, resounded to the measured tread of Abram, as he climbed to his great chambers in the dizzy heights of that remote eyrie, that eventful evening of the fifth week day. His brow was still knitted with the sadness begotten of his unhappy encounter with his pretty but intensely selfish kinswoman that afternoon, and yet his face was very calm with the serenity of an inner light which shone upon his soul. At his feet trotted the little black child who had again broken away from her Cushite half-sisters and mother, to follow the prince in his ascent to his room of meditation. With a sigh, he laid the little one down, and motioned to his servant to approach with fans that the slumber of his pet might be made the more tolerable in the heated close of the day, and in that exposed tower. Abram's thoughts centered about Sarai as her gracious and lovely image rose before him. Where in all the wide world was there such glowing, radiating beauty as his fair kinswoman had possessed, even as a tiny child. She was very good, and very fair, and majestically beautiful. Yet in all their intercourse as children and youths, had he never been encouraged to presume upon his kinship. He might admire her dark curls, as they fell like misty showers about her white-robed form, or long for a glance of her exquisite brown eyes as she dropped her veined lids over their melting charm; but the Princess folded within her soul her secret thoughts and allowed no man or child to idly lure them from that hiding place. The gemmed girdle of her waist was shamed in its beauty by the delicate pearl-like teeth which parted her lips of coral. Her white sandaled feet were clasped with anklets of pure, beaten gold. Who in all the earth might hope to mate with the Princess Sarai? The noise of some visitors climbing to the tower of Abram sent his new friend Eliezer to the edge of the upper terrace to discover its source. The Damascan smiled to find that the black baby had awakened, and was now close to his own heels as he stood intently listening to the upsounding babel of voices. "Little one," he said in Accadian tongue— for the child understood but little of the pure Semitic language of his new-found master and friend, Prince Abram— "thou art born under the star of evil in Tammuz; but thou hast chosen thy place in in455 fancy amongst the great. The God of Abram will surely shield thee from all harm, if that may be." The child spread out his arms and the Damascan tossed the black body lightly to his own brown-girt shoulder. "Prince Abram! Brother of my soul! Reader of the stars! Ruler of heaven and earth! Projector of great missiles which bring pestilence or send fire from heaven! Abram, Prince of Ur, where art thou?" The shrill voice was far below, in the lower terraces. The Damascan smiled again and again, as he heard the loud insistent voice, followed by more or less din of others following after. He knew the owner of that nasal call, and he still smiled. With a tightening grip around the form of his little charge, Eliezer stepped silently and gravely around the edge of the tower, which hid him from the long and tortuous flight of steps, leading to this ziggurat. "Ho, there, Abram, friend of the husbandman, patron of the seed-sower, teacher of the mysteries of Egyptian's Ennead — reader of the stars and worshiper of the great Unknown, where art thou?" Down from the upper sanctuary came Abram, his calm face now wreathed in a sunny gleam that might have been humor, if one so sage and sorrow-laden could be found to smile. He stood, a beautiful figure of supreme young manhood, his white-robed form draped only