[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL . Motto ? Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice MerrillHorne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. II. OCTOBER, 1915. No. 10. THE SPOKEN WORD. So much of stress has been laid on the statement that "prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed," that we have come to accept that definition without qualification. While there is a subtle truth in this poetic expression, it is also true that words clothe the thought as the body covers the spirit. The universe might be filled with potential desires, wishes, hopes and aims, yet. unless the word focuses and makes of the thought a created force, there will be no resultant action, no impact of will upon matter. We are told in the seventh Lecture on Faith in the Doctrine and Covenants, that "when a man works by faith, he works by mental exertion instead of physical force. It is by words, instead of exerting his physical powers that every being works when he works by force. God said, 'Let there be light, and there was light. Joshua spake, and the great lights which God had created, stood still. Elijah commanded, and the heavens were stayed. Faith then works by words; and by these its mightiest works have been, and will be performed." What clearer or more definite description of the manner in which the power of faith can be invoked and exercised, could be imagined than this pellucid statement. A word is a powerful thing. It is the tabernacle of the thought; and when once called into being can be killed or destroyed only as the body is destroyed by natural process of change and absorption. Solomon's beautiful allusion to "words fitly spoken" is familiar to all. Isaiah tells us "the Lord has sworn by myself, the word has gone out of my mouth — and shall not return." The Lord sternly reminds us that "for every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words shalt thou be justified, and by thy words shalt thou be condemned." Not for our thoughts, for they may be strangled, but for the embodied thought, the tabernacled thought. St. John calls the Savior The Word, and says, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God — and the Word was made flesh." Our words are a savor of life unto life, or a savor of death unto death. When your heart is crushed with loneliness, or your soul torn with loss, how comforting is a loving word, a tender caress. When words of unjust criticism flow out of our lips, how quickly they react in the distress of our body or the destruction of our peace. We may not know always why we suffer, nor why our desires are not given us. Perhaps it is sometimes because our desires are voiceless, wordless. The spoken word of prayer, the spoken word of gentleness to an enemy, the spoken word of comfort to the downcast — all these help to flood our souls with light and peace. The spoken word is the switch which turns on the light, the "current" which feeds the engine, the match which lights the candle, the source of ignition and explosion. The power, the force is all there — it must be "touched off," so to speak; it must be ignited by the Word, the spoken, living, palpitating Word. Speak, then, the word of encouragement to your repentance, of hope to your sorrow, of rebuke to your temptation, and of petition to the Almighty. Make thy words, not thine enemies, and thine avengers, but thy servants and thy friends. By thy words shalt thou be judged.