[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Home | Title: In the Kitchen Laboratory]

In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hazel Love Dunford. RELISHES AND PICKLES. The season of pickling time has rolled around once more, and no matter how much dietists write about the indigestibility of pickles, housekeepers will still make and serve them. Most people concede they are not good for man, woman or beast. In my own home I make my relishes very mild; and I do not make a practice of serving them regularly. In making pickles, never use metal vessels. A tiny piece of alum scalded in the vinegar, makes the pickle crisp. If vinegar has to be boiled, never boil it more than three or four minutes, as it loses in strength. Always buy the best cider vinegar to be had. Put pickles away in glass or stone jars. If, at any time, the pickles have the appearance of spoiling, pour off the vinegar and put fresh scalded vinegar on. Small cucumbers can be pickled early in the summer; put in brine for a time, then put into vinegar and they can be used later on in chow-chow and many other pickles. Pickled peaches, pears, grapes, etc., make extremely good relishes. They are more easily digested than pickles made of cucumbers, cabbage, etc. Compared with purchased pickles, those that are made at home are much cheaper and safer. Chili Sauce. 1 pk. tomatoes (skinned) 6 onions 1 c. sugar 1/2 c. salt 1 qt. vinegar 1 ts. celery seed Chop vegetables fine, add the other ingredients and boil until thick. Mustard Pickles. 3 qts. cucumbers cut up 1/2 c. mustard 2 qts. cauliflower 1 cup flour 2 qts. small onions 2 tb. turmeric 2 c. sugar Use enough brine to cover, allowing four quarts of water to one pint salt. Pour over the mixture and soak over night. Drain in the morning. Put vinegar on stove and add vegetables, when boiling. Mix flour, sugar and turmeric with a little cold vinegar, and stir into the pickles, and cook until smooth, and the vegetables are tender. 
 Tomato Meat Relish. 30 ripe tomatoes 12 sour apples 10 onions 6 green peppers 4 tb. salt 1 qt. vinegar Scald and skin tomatoes. Pare and core apples. Peel the onions and remove stems and seeds from peppers. Chop all fine. Mix thoroughly; add vinegar, and cook slowly one and one-half hours, and then add 4 tb. mustard seed, 1/2 tb. cloves, 1/2 tb. cinnamon and 1/2 tb. pepper. Seal in air tight jars. Pickled Onions. Select small onions. Make enough strong brine to cover, and let stand 24 hours. Replace the old brine with new, and let stand again 24 hours, and change again on the third morning. On the fourth day, wash onions and put cold water on and bring to the boiling point. Drain and rinse in cold water in a jar, and distribute slices of red pepper among them. Pour boiling vinegar over to cover. Spanish Pickles. To one peck of green tomatoes, cut in thin slices, put one-half cup salt. Let stand over night, then add one and one-half pints green peppers cut fine and three pints of onions. 1/2 tb. ginger 1 tb. celery seed 1 t. cloves 1/2 c. mustard 1 t. allspice 1 c. sugar Vinegar to cover, and boil hard five minutes. SALAD DRESSING. 3/4 cup tomatoes. 1/2 teaspoon pepper. 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 1/2 teaspoon mustard. Beat eggs and water and vinegar, add mixed dry ingredients; cook until thick, stirring constantly. Cut hard boiled eggs and cress fine. Do this separately, then combine with the dressing. A little whipped cream will improve the dressing. Rub a freshly-cut lemon over ink immediately after it has been spilled on carpet. No matter what the color of the carpet this will take out the fresh stain without injury to it. Remove the odor of food from a wooden chopping bowl by soaking the bowl in boiling water in which a little soda is dissolved. A tablespoonful of soda to a gallon of water is the proportion.