THESE ARE THE THINGS I HOLD OF DEAREST WORTH Roberta Bates These are the things I hold of dearest worth; An evening sky of gold, And rose, and blue, The peace of wooded hills, Bird song, the murmuring of rills, Green lace upon each April twig, And, after showers, The scent of good black earth Mingling with flowers, And, best of all, as each day ends? Laughter and friends. I Remember? Elder Rodney B. Taylor 

Corrected OCR Transcription
RECENTLY while attending a reception in a Utah community, the discussion of the Women's Clubs came up. It seemed that most of the matrons present belonged to at least one club and some to more than one. These women were sort of the town's "four hundred," and spent considerable time discussing the merits and demerits of their respective clubs. Previously, a member of one had referred to another club as the "tea drinkers' club."
This sort of split the community wide open, and at this gathering the crack had not entirely closed. These women were considered good Latter day Saints, and I wondered why more of them did not give vent to their energies through the Relief Society, my pet organization of the Church. They seemed to crave excitement or glamour and to consider the Relief Society a little, should I say, too sedate for them.
In reading our Church history, one is particularly impressed by the number of doleful, mournful experiences our people passed through, leaving one to wonder if they ever had any pleasure or joy?and so with Relief Society. I don't believe the Society puts its "best foot forward." Let me tell you about one of the times when it entertained Nobility, and said, 'Let there be a feast,' and there was a feast."
While I don't profess to remember way back when knighthood was
recall the tail end of the Gay Nineties. Much has been written about the American way of life during this time, but, as Mormons, I suppose we were so busy cutting sagebrush, digging ditches and killing the snakes, that there was not anything very gay about it for us. However, this was not the case up in a little Mormon community in Canada. I'll never forget mother trying to dress up to look like a Gibson Girl!
We had only been up there a few, short years, and had succeeded in establishing an outpost of civilization; it was just a year or two before the turn of the century.
Most of the saints made this eight-hundred-mile trek by wagon train in quest of land. A few were called by the Church to colonize this prairie, and, rather hurriedly, others joined them.
For those who came in quest of land their every wish was satisfied. The prairie spread out for hundreds of miles with not a fence in sight. It was all covered with luxuriant wild hay. Why the grass grew so high that I, as a boy, couldn't find a bare spot on which to play marbles. Prowled up, this land would produce sixty bushels of wheat per acre; however some years we would have a drought, wouldn't raise anything. Most of us, coming from Utah, were irrigation-minded, and so we set about digging a canal and making an irrigation system. Nowadays we get the money from Government and call it a project; but in those days we had to do it ourselves, and we didn't have much with which to do it. Page 208 I REMEMBER 209 It was the first irrigation system in Canada, and caused favorable comments for us, as a people, throughout the country. This was indeed welcome as we had been followed by much ugly rumor from Utah.
Shortly after the completion of the canal, the bishopric received a letter saying that a person of noble lineage, who was also a very high Government official (actually a real English Lord) had condescended to pay us a visit ostensibly to inspect the canal, however we had a pretty good idea that we, as a people, would be scrutinized. At any rate, we were indeed thrilled at the thought of entertaining His Lordship.
Of course every privilege has its responsibilities. There was the problem of entertaining His Lordship which was brought very vividly to our attention by a little English doctor, recently from England, and who was about the only gentleman in our midst. While the saints bragged of having an M.D., it sort of had a hollow ring to us. It seems in those days, when an English boy graduated from a medical school, he invariably went to the colonies to "practice" on the colonials for a couple of years before returning to England to establish his profession. We knew we served more or less as guinea pigs to him, but we also knew that he was better than no doctor at all.
Upon hearing of His Lordship's intended visit, the little doctor was more or less terrified at the thought of us entertaining him. He knew only too well that our facilities for such an occasion were somewhat limited.
There were about fifty houses in the town, some of them being sod. There were also three business houses, a little general store, a blacksmith shop and?you would never guess the other so I'll tell you?a millinery shop! My father ran the general store; he used to advertise everything from candles to coffins but there wasn't much in the store. He used to make the coffins "on order" and I used to dread hearing of someone dying of pneumonia or being drowned to death by a horse, because it meant an all-night vigil for me, holding a light by which father might see to build the coffin. He had learned the carpenter trade working on the Manti Temple before going to Canada, so bending and gluing boards, lining them with white satin inside, and white figured plush outside, and mounting the silver handles seemed to be no effort for him. But as for me, I'd get sleepy and let the light fall over, and sometimes the chimney would fall off and smash on the floor?not only that, but the next day I'd be so sleepy I could not go to the funeral. The funeral was something not to be missed in a country where nothing ever happened except snow, wind, wheat blizzards and more wind. Among the bishopric they owned a pair of beautiful black percheron stallions imported from France. In the event of a funeral, they would be hitched together to draw the hearse. It was an inspiring sight. Sometimes right in the procession they would get in a fight, but several sharp cracks of the bishop's whip would fix them. It was a sight not to be missed by any boy.
And now for the millinery store. It seems the sisters could put up with sod houses, wind, snow, and mud, but they must have their hats. In those days a hat really meant something. A man's standing in the community might be judged by the number and quality of the ostrich plumes in his wife's hat. So you see, hats were important. Hence the millinery shop on this outpost of civilization held a high place.
Mother used to keep her hat on the highest shelf in the house, totalling two or each of us youngsters. About twice a year she made a trip to the hat shop to have the artificial fruit updated, the moths killed in the ostrich feathers, and perhaps a little bunch of flowers added. After a few years of this the hat was indescribable. When mother would reach up and get that hat down, we youngsters knew something big was "brewing," perhaps a long trip, a visit by a General Board member from Salt Lake City or, in this case, Nobility.
As the day for the reception drew near, the little doctor became a little more panicky. The millinery store became more a beehive of activity. The bishopric contented itself with writing the speech of welcome.
The speech of welcome, we considered a masterpiece. Nearly everyone in town having had a hand in writing it. It started out by saying how proud we were to be residents (not citizens) of Canada (most of us were homesick for Utah). Then it continued by telling His Lordship in a roundabout way what fine people we were, and ended by asking him for a telegraph line, a railroad, a bridge across the St. Mary's River, and a schoolhouse. It was deemed wise not to ask him for too much at one time.
Inasmuch as the doctor spoke very good "Oxford English," it was decided he should read the speech of welcome. Not only that, but the doctor owned a pair of highstepping English hackneys coach horses, and a rubber-tired rig. It was a luxurious outfit to be sure. So it was decided to have the doctor and his wife represent the official welcoming committee.
I might add that this pair of hackneys were fed from seed cold oats in slats in the roof of the hayloft. Their water was equally high, consequently their necks grew straight up. When traveling their heads were very much erect. Should they have been turned out to pasture they would have starved, as they couldn't get their heads down to the level of the grass. I suspect the little doctor of importing these horses to impress upon us that, after all, we were just "colonials."
Nevertheless, I, as a boy, tried checking up the load of my deliveries to see if I could look like the doctor's horses but I didn't accomplish much. The first trip out he fell down and broke the shafts of my delivery wagon.
The bishopric in those days was our police department, fire department, judge, jury and all, rolled into one. They gave the orders and we followed them out as best we could. We knew that inasmuch as the bishopric had brought us through this far, they would have no trouble in entertaining an English Lord. The really hard part of the reception, that is the giving of the banquet, was turned over to the Relief Society. Mother used to say it seemed no that when a job became too big for the bishopric, they turned it over to the Relief Society sisters.
The next few days drifted rather quietly along. The sisters checked their respective silverware and table linens. The bishopric put the finishing touches on the speech of welcome. The doctor and his two hackneys clipped and groomed to a state of perfection. Then another letter came saying that not only was His Lordship coming, he would be accompanied by his two beautiful daughters. To the bishopric this just meant the setting of two more plates; however, Father Bill, to realize the repercussions the news would cause among the sisters.
From reading English newspapers, the sisters knew full well the two ladies in question. They were the "toast of the Empire" and had been entertained extensively in the stately halls of Europe?Paris, Vienna?and other parts of the world. And further, the sisters felt that they would be met and would not face them in their present wardrobes, shabby from the trip to Canada.
After considerable tumult, meager savings were dug up, livestock sold, and a messenger was dispatched posthaste to the nearest city to replenish our stocks of apparel. The millinery shakes were long since bare.
Dressing up mother in those days was some job. Nearly every member of the family would help. There was the matter of the skirt, a much pleated, folded, voluminous affair of many layers. Mother, being the wife of the Store Owner who was also a High Councilman, had to dress like part. In this case she had gained a few pounds, and waist lines were supposed to be very small. We fit her to the dress, which was a simple matter. She meekly went without her dinner and then, by holding her breath and wiggling a few times while father drew the corset strings taut, we got her down to a size where she could get into her dress and the "Gibson Girl" effect. But some of the sisters required a complete new outfit.
For the few days before the big event, the town was a bedlam of activity. But the day before His Lordship's arrival found everything in readiness. Table linens all pressed, silverware highly polished, and wardrobes in tiptop shape. The place of meeting was the only large house in town, and, by opening some doors, two rooms could be made into one.
After the banquet, the plans called, for the townspeople to drop by in twos and threes to meet the party. After which, the doctor would drive them and the bishopric on an inspection tour of the canal. At long last, we were ready.
Early the next morning, the sisters could be seen converging on the reception house from all directions, carrying food, silverware, linen, flowers, dishes, and even furniture! It looked like a gala day except for the fact that a strong north wind had sprung up, which immediately was followed by a thunderous downpour of rain.
The rain being very flat, soon there were floods, and after a couple of hours of this deluge, the countryside took on the aspects of the Pacific Ocean. Every few blocks in this prairie were buffalo wallows, and, when wet, they were bottomless pits for a carriage. We began to realize that all our plans and preparations were all for naught if it did not stop raining, when up drew a carriage bearing some Church officials, members of a General Board from Utah. This sort of complicated things for the sisters, but at least if the rain did not abate, there would be someone to eat up this feast. Needless to say these Church officials were very pleasantly surprised, if not awestruck, when they came in and beheld this banquet room resplendent with gleaming white linen, highly polished silverware, the most delicate and lovely chinaware decorated with wild flowers, and at the end of the table a beautiful red plush chair standing. It was sort of a sentinel for all that was grand. I never knew that such things existed. Needless to say being a boy I was not privileged to try it out. Some sister evidently had smuggled that chair through from Salt Lake in the back of a covered wagon, perhaps unknown to her husband. Now here it stood in all its glory surrounded by a wilderness, waiting the touch of Nobility. As the morning drew on, the storm grew in intensity and assumed proportions of a cloudburst, and we began to realize that our chances of shaking the hand of Nobility were very slim indeed. By noon, the skies seemed to split wide open, the rain fell in sheets and the whole countryside was swimming. Luckily, we had these Church officials with us, and in those days they were always hungry, so that all our efforts wouldn't be wasted. Shortly after noon, we had several more terrific claps of thunder and the wind and rain continued. The bishopric went into a huddle with the Relief Society president. After all the dinner was ready to be served, it seemed the Relief Society, too, had a weakness for visiting General Board members, and Nobility or no Nobility, the dinner was served. Occupying the brilliant red plush chair in all his splendor was the bishop. He was flanked by his counselors, the Church officials, and a few prominent townspeople. Judging by the appetites of these visiting churchmen, they must have been on the road quite some time and perhaps traveling without purse or scrip. Eventually, the dinner was all eaten up, the sisters were congratulated on being such good cooks, after which the organ was rolled out and the brethren sang a few songs. However, having just partaken of such a sumptuous repast, they soon all settled down in chairs. The room echoed to their hymn "All Is Well, All Is Well" accompanied by the gentle patter of rain on the windows. The brethren were soon drowsy and some cat napping. It was a peaceful scene to behold indeed-"All Is Well, All Is Well" with the exception of one little lively girl of 'perhaps eight years with long spindly legs, who was upstairs, downstairs, hither, thither and yon all at the same time, followed by her two pigtails. I Remember 213 ON one of her numerous trips, she happened, by chance, to look out the window, and wheeled and screamed?"The Lord is coming, he's coming, he's coming?and he is bringing the whole British Army with him."
Instantly the whole house seemed to be electrified?British Army, British Army, the Lord?rain?mud?no dinner?these murmurs seemed to permeate the very atmosphere of the room. At this time His Lordship's appearance would be distracting enough, but a British Army besides, in fact any army, would be most unwelcome.
The saints swarmed to the windows, and sure enough coming across those golden, rain-soaked prairies, was a large body of horsemen. They were surely but slowly making their way straight for the house.
Only a few minutes previous, observing the bishop "enthroned" on that red plush chair, I had decided that when I grew up I wanted to be a bishop?but he was now a very distracted figure, which somewhat dampened my ardor?and the rest of the men looked as if their dinners had turned to lead.
Eventually, the party drew up on the front lawn?preceded by the little doctor bearing the speech of welcome, who took up his prearranged post on the porch.
His Lordship was thoroughly chilled and soaked and had to be pried out of the saddle, and he stomped into the house right past the doctor, speech of welcome and all.
His Lordship's beautiful daughters did not fare much better. He looked like two hens who had been out in the rain all night and were more to be pitied than envied.
It seemed that back at His Lordship's starting point that morning, Canadian officials had tried, in the face of such threatening weather, to prevail upon His Lordship not to attempt the trip, but he had merely shrugged his shoulders and inferred that the punctuality of the British Aristocracy was a thing not to be trifled with, and go he would, also his daughters.
Since a carriage would probably have stalled, they were all mounted. In normal weather an honor guard of perhaps twelve Royal Canadian Mounted Police would have accompanied persons of such lineage, but in this case the guard was not only doubled but trebled. We were indeed relieved to learn that "the whole British Army" had turned out to be mostly "Mounties" whom we had learned to know as protectors. As a boy, when I used to see one coming in his scarlet red coat I thought of all the bad things I'd ever done.
The Indians around us were taught that the Royal Canadian Mounted Police were the sons of the "Great White Father" (King of England) and if they displeased the Mounties, the "Great White Father" would wreak vengeance on their heads.
At this point, to use a military phrase, the Relief Society "took over." They immediately discerned that what His Lordship and ladies needed most was to get warm and have their coats and other clothes dried. They went into a huddle, and after a few hurried whispers they would now go to work with clocklike precision. Several slipped out the back door and began catching, killing, and frying chicken as they have never done before or since. Youngsters were sent around town to spread the alarm that we were all caught "flat footed." Other sisters set about drying His Lordship's tunic. Imagine the thrill the sisters in this outpost of civilization must have received in carefully untangling and drying the gold braid with which it was draped. One of the bishopric was dispatched posthaste to my father's store to see if, perchance, there was anything left in it after the previous dinner. He came in the store all excited and said, 'The Lord has come and there is not a bite in the house to eat! Have you anything?" My father replied, "Well I'm not surprised. I've been preaching for years if we were not more careful, the Savior would be dropping in on us and our lamps would be empty, and now this?" They went over the store shelves and discovered seventeen cans of oysters. They were stocked in the store for such occasions as wedding receptions, visiting apostles, or, in this case. Nobility. They were so expensive it was considered next door to sacrilege to use them for anything else. The Mounties dismounted and we turned their horses, all fifty head, into the host's haystacks. At least they were going to be well fed. The sisters hurriedly summoned Brother Fofalite, an Italian convert, a very fine musician and our choir leader. It was common knowledge about the town that the bishopric was not any too well pleased with Brother Fofalite?it was thought that he had the choir spend too much time on operatic arias and neglected such good old hymns as "Come, Come Ye Saints" and "High On the Mountain Tops." Nevertheless, Brother Fofalite was an expert musician, but in twenty years of farming, he was never known to raise a crop. The sisters soon had the banquet room again in order. With the splendor of the Mounties and their scarlet red uniforms, the atmosphere of the room took on a tone of brilliance. Eventually, His Lordship and Ladies regained their composure. Brother Fofalite appeared and accompanied on the organ a quartette of the sisters who sang, artistically, several difficult operatic renditions with which the Noble Party was very much surprised. Following this the town's "Oomph Girl" (yes, we had them in those days, too) sang a song in "rag time" which immensely pleased the Mounties, but evidently passed clear over His Lordship's head. By this time the rain having subsided, once more the sisters began converging on the banquet house from all parts of town, bringing even more dishes, furniture, and food. My admiration certainly went out to the Relief Society sisters, even though I knew full well we'd probably be on a mush and milk diet for the rest of the summer. The dinner was served in excellent style. The whole party was enthusiastically pleased with its reception "at the hands of the Mormons." The storm lifted and they were shown the canal and sent happily on their way. Thus the Mormons in Canada were judged and came through with flying colors. Thanks to the Relief Society and all seventeen cans of oysters, the day was saved, and we all lived happily ever afterwards. Mysteriously, that red plush chair was never seen again from that day to this.