Samuel Otis Bennion President Antoine R. Ivins Of the First Council of the Seventy IN the death of Samuel O. Bennion the Church has lost one of its most valued and valiant servants. He leaves behind a vast multitude of friends. While we knew he had been laboring under the handicap of an uncertain heart for some time, none of us expected him to leave us when he did. Practically all of his mature years have been devoted to the missionary work of the Church, for it was soon after his marriage that he accepted a call to the Central States Mission where he spent the next twenty-eight years of his life, presiding over the mission for twenty-six of them. Upon that mission he stamped his personality, and to an even greater extent he leaves his mark upon the Church through the many men and women who worked under his direction in spreading the 'glad tidings of great joy" to the world. He taught them faith in God and humility, honesty, devotion, integrity, industry, and the other virtues which characterize true Latter-day Saints. From the Central States Mission he came to the First Council of the Seventy which gave him another wide field of activity. Here he came into closer touch with the presiding officers of the Church, in its general offices, and throughout the wards and stakes, and widened the circle of his influence. While at Independence he had the Liahona and printing plant to manage which experience qualified him to direct The Deseret News when he moved to Salt Lake City. President Bennion's parents were sturdy pioneers and he gained from them a physical and intellectual endowment which qualified him for life, under the rigorous conditions of our beloved West. ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION (Died March 8, 1945) He was equally at home as a stockman and farmer, a business man or a preacher of the restored gospel. Almost seventy-one years was the measure of his mortal life, and they were filled with acts of kindness and helpfulness. Our prayer is that God will give strength and courage, confidence and solace to his good wife who through all of these experiences stood by him. Page 201