Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MRS. MARTHA SPENCER WOODWARD has passed away at the age of ninety-six. She was a daughter of Martha Knight Spencer and Orson Spencer, pioneer author and first regent of the University of Deseret. Inheriting her father's literary tastes, she was the prime mover in organizing the Ladies' Literary Club in Salt Lake City. DETURNING from European battle fronts, Anne O'Hare Mc-Cormick says that, seen from a cold spur of the Apennines, the old Main Street that had seemed "drab and standardized and cramping" to American boys, looks like "some gold-paved thoroughfare in Paradise." IN her medical student days, Mrs. Lillian Bettinger developed a "guilt feeling" because of the destructiveness of dissecting human bodies. She compensated by sculpturing as a hobby. Later as assistant to a famous plastic surgeon, she utilized both these anatomical and artistic skills in developing the best method known today of making artificial fingers, noses, hands and other "prosthetic" parts, even matching remarkably the shade of human skin (and there are two million shades of skin). People type-write and perform other near-miracles with these parts. Her system has helped thousands of soldiers; she hopes soon to help war-crippled children. VIEING with General MacArthur in popularity among service boys and girls. Lieutenant Colonel Jane ("Ma") Clement, director of nurses in the entire Southwest Pacific area has been retired after two years' incredibly strenuous service overseas. She was fifty-six, and long past the retirement age. BEULAH GREENWALT and three other army nurses of Cor-regidor and Bataan were among the prisoners freed in Luzon. Miss Greenwalt was the "Peggy" of They Were Expendable. ANNALEE WHITMORE JA-COBY, former top movie-script writer, who miraculously escaped imprisonment at Bataan, is now in Asia reporting war news, one of the most strenuous and difficult assignments possible for a woman. ROSEMARY TAYLOR'S Ridin the Rainbow, the story of her father's life in Tucson, is a humorous sequel to the story of her mother, Chicken Every Sunday. OOSE FRANKEN, author of Claudia, has produced another play on Broadway, Soldiers Wife. Page 217 EDITORIAL VOL. 32 APRIL 1945 NO.