Ten Miles to Calico Martha Roheson Wiight THE autumn sun poured in through the open windows of the pioneer Mormon meetinghouse. As Mathilda Dawson sat down, it touched with gold the tawny braids wound round her restless, young head. It even brightened somewhat the drab hair of the girl's work-worn mother beside her on the split-log bench. But no sunlight, Tilda thought, could lend any luster to their dull-brown, homespun dresses. This was the Sunday-afternoon sacrament meeting, so her father sat with the Seventies, just behind the Elders at the front of the room. Tilda glanced around. Frank Robinson was in his usual place on the opposite side of the meetinghouse. Every Sunday she felt the same tingle, seeing him there among the Elders. This time, though, his twinkling gray eyes were not waiting for her to look his way. Tilda followed his gaze across the aisle to the women's side, a little in front of her seat. What she saw tightened her throat. The strange girl must be from Salt Lake City. She was gay and dainty in pink, white-sprigged calico. She had a clear white skin, and cheeks that glowed like the pink of her dress. Her hair was dark and shining beneath the perky yellow straw hat with pink ribbons on it. Her hands were white and graceful. They would be soft to touch. Tilda scowled down at her own hands. They were tanned almost black, rough and calloused, with Page 242 cracked nails and knuckles. Quickly she hid them in the folds of her skirt. Any girl could look pretty if she had the clothes, and never had done a lick of work in her life. What good would that one be in the country? Wouldn't her hands look like something when she got through scraping black pots and washing dishes in hard water and lye soap! Imagine those French kid shoes after a day's farm work, plowing, planting, hoeing, chopping wood. Wouldn't be worth sic'em! The congregation stood for the opening song. Now Tilda saw the nice fit of the city girl's dress?snug at the waist and with a billowy skirt, three tucks featherstitched in with white floss. "Come, Come Ye Saints!" Tilda sang lustily to hide the ache in her heart. That girl was like a princess. Frank couldn't help looking at a princess. Just the same, it hurt. After the song they sat down. Tilda wanted to crawl off somewhere. She clenched her fists during prayer. Automatically, she put the small piece of fine white sacrament bread in her mouth and swallowed. She sipped the water, passing the large goblet on to her mother. She scarcelv heard First Counselor Williams bearing testimony and telling how glorious it was to be out here in Zion where the Latter-day Saints might worship as they pleased. By the time of the closing song, Tilda had made up her mind to get some calico herself, for a dress as TEN MILES TO CALICO 243 pretty as that pink one. Prettier! As they walked out of meeting, she hurried ahead of her mother to avoid Frank. She wasn't going to have him look from her to the princess, comparing them. But he called, "Tilda! Tilda!" She turned, then seemed to freeze. He was talking to that girl. Tilda had to stand and wait until they caught up. 'Tilda, I want you to meet Clarissa Wilkins, from Salt Lake City. She's visiting our ward today." Smiling, Clarissa held out her hand, "How do you do, Tilda." There was nothing to do but take the white hand. It was as soft as Tilda had thought it would be. Clarissa gave her rough palm a little squeeze before she let it go. "Pleased to meet you," said Tilda. Clarissa acted friendly. "I've never been to Ogden before, or out here to Lynne Ward, either. It's beautiful." Tilda always had loved her mountains and this sky, but she only said, very shortly, "I guess so." What if Frank Robinson was squirming with embarrassment? Well, he didn't need to bring her and this girl together. "Nice day to make the trip up, Sister Wilkins," he offered. "Yes," she responded brightly. "Oh, there's my father! I have to go. Pleased to have met you. Sister Tilda. Goodbye." The princess floated away, a slim tree in full, pink blossom. Tilda watched Clarissa approach a surrey and fine team of horses. Some of the families in Salt Lake were rich. Clarissa stepped up gracefully into her carriage. Unshed tears stung the country girl's eyes. Frank flushed as his glance met hers. He probably was thinking how funny she looked. He might never have noticed that her dress was ugly if Clarissa's pretty one hadn't come along. The city girl had her hair fixed with long, slender curls pinned up in the back. Tilda's wasn't fixed at all?just wound in braids around her head. Tilda wanted to say out loud, "I'm going to get me store cloth for a dress. It won't be pink, either. I don't like pink. It'll be a lot prettier than Clarissa's." Frank wouldn't understand, though. Showing him would be better. "Got to go," Tilda said suddenShe joined her parents outside the meetinghouse door. Walking home with them, she tried to think of some way to get the calico. Home! This one-room dugout! Three years ago Tilda had helped her father spade the square hole into the ground, and securely pound logs on all sides. Across these they had placed roof poles, covered them with vdllows and sod. There was only one door and one vdndow. The floor was of earth, with loose boards laid over it. Tilda followed her parents inside. Mrs. Dawson scraped the ashes on the stone hearth, blew gently on the embers, and spread some chips over the bright glow to get the fire going. This was to take off the chill. A pair of three-legged kettles squatted beside the hearth. The room was furnished with three wooden stools and a hewn table, a corner cupboard, and a bed of poles with a cornhusk mattress. Tilda slept on the lid of the wooden chest opposite the bed. Her mattress was an old comforter doubled; her cover, a buffalo robe. As usual on Sunday, she helped her mother prepare supper. She turned the cold cornmeal mush out of the bowl onto a plate to slice. While she was getting the knife, Tilda noticed that the pen-and-ink sketch of her mother's "caster" was dusty. The life-like drawing, pasted on a thin board, stood propped against the earthenware jar on the ledge of stone above the fireplace. When the Dawsons came West, the actual silver caster had been left behind. Long after her parents slept, Tilda lay awake. Yard goods cost a lot. How could she get something to trade at Horrock's store in Og-den for the calico she coveted? Finally the idea came to her. The Burnetts had cut and stacked their wheat. There were always scattered, loose wheat stalks left among the stubble. Tomorrow she'd ask the neighbors if she might glean their field. AT daybreak, Tilda slipped out. Brother Burnett, just up, granted her request at once. "Why, sure, Tildy. You go right ahead. That's pretty hard work, 'specially after you do all your chores, but you're welcome." Tilda hurried home. She gave a little skip through the door. Her parents were eating their hot mush breakfast. ?Ive been over to Brother Burnett's," she reported breathlessly. "He'll let me glean his wheat field. "I'll do it after my regular chores. Pa. You won't notice the difference." He had a spoonful of mush on the way to his mouth. He ate it before he spoke. "What's all this about?" "Some calico. For a dress. Did you see the new girl at meeting? I want some calico like her dress. Only not pink. I'll work 'till Ihave a whole sack of wheat ready to take to town." Her father shook his head. "You'd trade weeks of gleaning, flailing, and winnowing to Hor-rock's, just for yard goods?" Tilda nodded eagerly. "You females! What do you want another dress for?" She gulped in astonishment. "Why ? a bright, pretty color. Please let me get the wheat, Pa. Please!" Tilda stood in front of him, her hands clenched so that the knuckles showed white. Her father said, "You can glean the wheat. But this new dress business?it just ain't seemly." Her mother spoke. "The dresses I make you ain't so bad. Took me nigh a month to spin and weave that cloth for your Sunday dress. And dyed floursack dresses ain't so bad for working." "Oh, everything we've got is so ugly. Ma! Blacks and browns! We look like mudhens. I've got to get calico somehow!" Her father rose, put on his hat. "Don't expect any help." "We need variety in eating," her mother wished. "It's mush, mush all the time. If you got a bushel of wheat, we could use some butter. Maybe a little white flour. Or salt pork." Tilda choked out, "I got to have want him to see her close until she something pretty. I got tor was wearing calico. She waved back Her mother said nothing more, brusquely and went on flailing. Her father scuffed through the The following Sunday she told door. Her mother that she was too fagged When the dishes were done and out to go to Sunday School or the room was tidied, Mrs. Dawson afternoon meeting. Mrs. Dawson went over to the fireplace shelf. She let her stay home. Her father muttook down the sketch of the caster tered disgustedly, "Dress!" But he set, looked at it a long minute. Then didn't order her to get up and come she dusted the picture with a cor along. Ner of her apron and put it back Tilda lay abed on the hard chest against the jar. Somehow that gave top. The soreness of her muscles Tilda hope that Ma might under and the cuts made every movement stand in time. Painful, but this morning her aches At first, she gleaned in her bare and smarts didn't matter. In the feet to save her shoes. Her legs were corner squatted the great sack, near-cut and bruised by the stubble. Her ly full. Tomorrow would be the arms ached. Her back felt as if it last of the gleaning, and she'd have had a rusty hinge at the base of her a big pile of wheat stalks to flail spine. Yet she kept on doggedly, and winnow. Then only five miles gathering wheat stalks one by one. To Ogden. Only five miles to calTilda carried her gleanings home ico! The words repeated them-each day. She had stretched a tar selves over and over in Tilda's head, paulin over the levelest ground near Five miles to calico! Five miles to the dugout. On this, every evening calico! It was like a song, she threshed out the grains with a Despite her ruse to avoid meet-flail. Then she winnowed the ing Frank again before she'd be wheat and put it into a big, old sack dressed up, he saw her in her work-she had found. The sack would hold ing clothes on Monday. It could considerably more than a bushel. Not have been worse. Tilda was The sparrows bothered Tilda, gleaning in Brother Burnett's field. Wheat was too precious to have With her back to the road, she bent them gobbling it. She scared the far over to pick up several stalks, birds away with well-aimed pebbles The sun beat on her uncovered from her slingshot that she used to hair, which matched the color of hunt rabbits. Slowly her hoard of the ripe wheat. Perspiration streaked grain grew until the big sack her dusty forehead and ran into her bulged. Blue eyes. It even trickled down In the middle of the second her slender, bare, brown legs and week, when Tilda was threshing into her high-laced shoes. Her full just before supper, Frank Robinson skirt and petticoats were fastened and his grandfather, Bishop Robin up around her thighs, son, rode by. Frank reined up his Frank Robinson wasn't in her horse as if he meant to stop, and mind. Her thoughts were only of waved. Tilda had on her brown, her beautiful wheat, and calico. A flour-sack working dress. She didn't voice came from the road. ?A Howdy, Tilda." She jerked upright, clutching at her half-filled apron, and wrenched around. Her skirts swirled above her knees. Her heart first jumped into her throat, then dropped into her shoes. Frank sat there on the slate-colored mare, his long legs dangling. He brushed a lock of black hair from his eyes to see her better, and tried to keep a smile from coming on his mouth. No wonder! She looked her very worst. Breathing quickly, Tilda fumbled to button her waist, which was too far open at the neck. "I?I didn't aim to scare you." Frank's smile came out. Tilda blushed furiously. Her eyes flashed. "You didn't scare me!" The words were curt and sharp. "But you thought you were smart to sneak up on me like an Indian." She'd seen him look at her legs when she whirled. And what a sight she must have been stooping 'way over with her back to him! "Honest, I didn't sneak up." His tone begged her not to get any madder at him. "I was just doing an errand for grandpa and thought I'd pass the time o'day." "Well, you passed it." Tilda turned away, being careful not to have her skirts flare out, and resumed gleaning. Now she half knelt as she picked up each wheat stalk. Frank sat still on his horse as if he didn't understand. Humph! After a minute or two he went loping down the road. Tilda crumpled on the ground, her head on her knees. She'd got her legs cut raw, her back nearly broken, her hands looking awful, to get a calico dress so that Frank would think she was as pretty as Clarissa. And how he had just seen her! He had laughed! What difference would a new dress make now? She wiped her hot, teary face with her apron. It was no use. Her conscience would nag her anyway if she had the calico. She'd be thinking of her mother needing a variety of food instead of mush. Tilda stood up listlessly. She would finish gleaning, and thresh and winnow the last of the wheat. Pa could take the sackful to town to trade for something to eat that would be a change. Out here all people did was work to get enough to eat. Tilda saw her mother trudging across the field toward her. She hadn't realized before that ma looked like an old, old woman. She plodded over the stubble as if walking in her sleep. It was from so much hard work. Ma never complained, but neither did she ever seem to take much notice of anything nowadays. Even of that picture of her precious caster set. "Got the soap a-cooling," Mrs. Dawson called. There was no expression in her voice. Automatically she began picking up wheat stalks and stowing them in her apron. "Thought I'd help you." Tenderness stirred Tilda. "You got no call to do this. Ma. Go back to the dugout and rest yourself a little." "I'm tired of being in there. Nothing else to do but this, for awhile. You? you'll get your wheat to town sooner." The lump in Tilda's throat choked her. Ma meant she should TEN MILES TO CALICO 247 get the calico. Ma was on her side. Tilda swallowed hard. Then, with the shock as of cold water thrown in her face, it struck the girl that her mother looked like a squaw. Her skin was lined and weatherbeaten, her dark hair lifeless. Her arms were thin and sinewy. Her hands resembled leathery claws. That stoop in ma's back came from bending, lifting, washing, laboring all the time. The one variety in her life was going to meeting on Sunday, seeing other tired, worn women like herself trying to keep awake during the sermon. Ma had grown old at thirty-five. Tilda thought, Fm past sixteen. How much longer will I stay young looking? She was awful tired right now. She might wear out even quicker than her mother. Oh, she musn't let herself get like ma! Whether or not Frank liked her in the calico didn't matter so much. She had to get it so she wouldn't wither up as her mother had done. Desperately, Tilda resumed her gleaning. That night her father asked if her task wouldn't soon be finished. He hadn't mentioned her work since she started. Why had he asked that? Rather worriedly she answered, "Yes." 'I?ll get you a piece of twine to tie the sack. You maybe'll have over a bushel. Still set on the dress goods?" More worried, she replied, "Yes, sir, and thanks for the twine." Her father said nothing more, but the room seemed brighter to Tilda. Perhaps pa had joined her side. No doubt his interest was because she had worked hard. He always admired a hard worker. Tuesday afternoon Tilda worked at her threshing with a light heart. Thump! Thump! Went the flail. This was the very last batch of wheat stalks?she wouldn't mind how her back hurt. Her mother came from the dugout with a bucket of water. Tilda let the flail drop. She sat down against a stump to ease her backache. "Seems like you'll 'most kill yourself just for a dress," her mother said, setting the bucket beside her. Tilda wiped her forehead with her forearm. She reached for the bucket. "Thanks, Ma." She drank long and washed her hot, red face with the remaining water. She smiled up at her mother. "It's sure nice wheat." "Come winter you'll wish you'd got something heavier than calico." But Tilda sensed that her mother didn't really mean it. The sparrows were gathering near the tarpaulin. Tilda took her flipper and a stone from the top of the stump. She placed the pebble in the leather piece and pulled the elastics back until the two rubbers fastened to the sides of the fork were taut. Without aiming, she shot the missile toward the birds. They whirred away and Tilda replaced the flipper on the stump. "Makes no difference if there is a bounty on the pesky sparrows," she said. "I can't seem to want to kill 'em." Painfully she got to her feet. Her mother picked up the bucket and remarked, "You don't have to get done tonight." "Yes I do. I'm going to take my wheat to town tomorrow." "To trade just for calico?when you could get?" 

Her mother checked the wish, shadows shd over the surrounding Tilda flushed and glanced down at mountains. The last operation, her dull-brown, sage-dyed, flour sifting, required little time. Finally sack dress. The waist was opened she shoveled the sieved grain into at the neck to where the gentle the fat sack. Before tying the swelling of her firm young breasts mouth with the heavy twine her began. She drew a sobbing breath, father had provided, she ran her lifted the flail, and thumped the fingers down into the wheat caress-wheat stalks at her feet emphatical ingly. V Tilda pushed the sack over and "One more winter of poor fare stretched herself out beside it. She won't hurt us. Ma. I got to get lay watching the sky, where bright that calico! I won't look so dead paint had been thrown all across any longer!" the heavens. The calico in Hor- 'Tretty is as pretty does." But rock's store would be colored like ma's eyes didn't match her sharp that. The piled bolts would make tone. They were tender. "Frank'll a rainbow against the drab, plank like you anyway." shelves. Tilda reddened. She doubled The triumphant sunset was Joath her fists on her hips, left the flail to bid good night, but after a while dangling. 'The dress isn't for him, the colors faded to a soft blend. Ma. It's just to have something Rested, Tilda scrambled up. She pretty for once. I got a right to, took her flipper and pebbles from haven't I?" the stump and dropped them into "Yes. And you're grown now. " "'ge pocket inside her skirt. But how are you going to get your *"pulled and tugged the sack of wheat to town? We have no horse wheat to the dugout. Her moflier or oxen." helped her drag it in. ' get it there." Tilda's blue "*t all you need now?" Mrs. Eyes glinted. "Perhaps somebody Dawson asked, from Burnett's '11 be going to Og Tilda nodded. As she washed up den tomorrow." she glanced at the sketch of the Mrs. Dawson returned to the """ter. There was no dust on it. dugout. Tilda finished threshing. "!,'/? tuckered out. Ma. Coin' to Then she turned the stalks over '4*"? with a pitchfork until she felt sure Mrs. Dawson stopped stirring every head of wheat was off. She the contents of the black kettle that pitched the straw onto the stack, hung over the fire. "Not eating That left only the grain and chaff any supper?" on the tarpaulin. Tilda, looking "Too all-fired tired." Tilda like a young Norse goddess, began kicked off her shoes, crawled onto throwing handfuls of wheat into the wooden chest, pulled the bufair and letting it fall to the canvas, falo robe over her. Her wheat sat It took her three hours to win there in the corner, ready. Oniy now?three hours of stooping and five miles to calico! Straightening and tossing. The {To he continued) ARTS FRO!