[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 600 | General Feature | A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtub Edythe | K. Watson]
Clough A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtuh Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society @ Summer picnics can be great fun, whether you and your family take to the canyon, the woods, or the beach, or whether you prefer just to relax and enjoy a cookout in your own back yard. What could be more satisfying on a warm summer day than a delicious thirst-quenching cold drink or a slice of cooled melon? But how to keep the melons and the drinks cold is the question. For this practical purpose, and for aesthetic appeal, as well, the washtub in the picture was painted and decorated. Such colorful tubs, when not in use for keeping foods cold, can serve, also, as containers for special arrangements of flowers and greenery for enhancing the attractiveness of the outdoor rest and recreation area. The project of decorating washtubs proved to be one of the most exciting and rewarding homemaking projects sponsored by the Relief Society sisters of the Parley's Sixth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah. Even those with no acknowledged creativity found real satisfaction in wielding a paint brush with such delightful results. Originality was the key word. White, black or red paint was used to cover the tubs, with a variety of colors and designs used for trim. Sisters with some artistic talent painted original, free-hand designs, such as the one shown in the picture. The more timid ones used decals, stencils, or tracings. Some sisters even discovered artistic talents they were not aware they possessed. All who participated were amazed with the beauty and utility they had brought to the 598 lowly washtub. Some coal buckets were also painted in a like manner for those who wanted something a little smaller. These were later used at their bazaar as containers for popcorn balls, apples, and the like. EQUIPMENT NEEDED Tub—these can usually be found in hardware stores. Round bottom tubs are easier to handle. Rust inhibiting paint Enamel paint in the color of your choice Additional enamel paints for trimming— small cans of enamel are available in many colors Clear varnish—exterior, interior, or marine 1 or 1%-inch bristle brush Decals or stencils—available variety stores Small artist paint brushes for trimming and designs in most PAINTING THE TUB Clean the tub thoroughly. Apply an undercoat of rust inhibiting paint on the outside and down about six inches (to the estimated water line of the tub when in use). When dry, apply a good quality enamel paint. White was used on the tub in the accompanying picture, but almost any color would be attractive. Use one coat of enamel, or more, for adequate coverage. Allow to dry thoroughly, then cover the entire exterior of the tub with clear varnish for protection and durability. APPLYING DECORATIVE DESIGNS When the varnish on the outside is thoroughly dry, apply decals, stencils, or free-hand painting. Interesting designs can be found in children's picture books, magazines, or in wallpaper prints. These can be traced and Photo by Dorothy J. Roberts a ——— then filled in with paint, or they can be glued to the tub and covered with one or two coats of clear varnish. Fill the decorated tub with favorite drinks, fruit juice, milk, homemade rootbeer, lemonade, or melons. Pack with ice, and a large part of the picnic preparations have been completed.

SCUITS SUPREME Vp tsp. Cream of tartar 2c. Flour Yo tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Sugar 4 tsp. Baking powder Ye C. Shortening 2, c. Milk sift together flour, salt, baking powder, cream of tartar, and sugar. Cut in shortil mi is like coarse crumbs. D k all at once, and stir just enough, until doug around bowl. Pat or roll ick on lightly floured sur tter. Sed baking sheet I face, and for 10 to 12 minutes. 

600 August 1969

 DORA'S LEMON SOUFFLE a Fo 4 egg a beaten lightly 4c. Flour c. Mi ¥ tsp. Salt 12 tsp. Lemon rind, minced lg tsp. Baking powder 3 tbsp. Lemon juice 3 tbsp. Butter 3 egg whites, beaten stiff Sift dry ingredients together and mix with the butter. Add egg yolks, milk, lemon rind and lemon juice. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and pour into lightly buttered baking dish. Bake in pan of water 350° for 40 minutes, or until lightly browned. Cake will rise to top, leaving custard on bottom of dish. Cool. Serve with whipped cream. The memory I call Aunt Alice comes out, smiling her gentle smile. She knows she is my favorite of them all. Our families were the closest of friends, and we were often guests at their big holiday dinners. Uncle Jim was a gentleman of the deep South, and the family lived in the old plantation manner. All meals were served on elegant china with heirloom silver, and usually by candlelight. Her Maple Pecan Creams, her fudge, her divinity, tasted like no other, and could have made her a fortune in the business world. Now, just as the memory disappears, I remember that her secret was that she always kneaded the candy on a marble table top. AUNT ALICE'S MAPLE PECAN CREAMS 2 c. Sugar ec. Cream Yc. Real maple syrup Yo ¢. Pecans, chopped Combine all ingredients, except nuts, and stir constantly over low flame until mixture begins to boil. Continue to cook slowly until candy reaches soft ball stage. Cool. Beat until candy begins to thicken, then add pecans. Drop with teaspoon onto waxed paper. Thin with a little more cream if necessary.