[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 2 | General Feature | Social Relations— Restraint— Road to Freedom, Part | ]
[Social Relations— Restraint— Road to Freedom, Part]

The Relief Society Magazine AUGUST 1969 uh wre —— \ od 7 in ri A ge tt MUP eS aii The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: CLIMATE FOR LILIES There is a climate for lilies—in the tomorrows, In a plain, in the fertile loams of the future, In the gray bestowal of rain and intermittent sun, Lavish on the plain. There will be the pale burgundy of buds, The bloom with its trilogy of petals, Its triumvirate of gold. There is that next of summers, With trine of dreams and gold of hopes, And pale, pure satin Spilling gold from heart of gold. Though wind is a wall between, listen... A plea on the prairie strives Over wood fences weathered to pewter, Along the sea with its green, curling leaf of wave: After the winter of want There is a

Society is. How blessed we are as wives and mothers to have the privilege of walking beside the priesthood of God. How good it is to be guided by the Magazine. I enjoyed the article on the new Giant System in genealogical research. Too often this work is left to a later date. To bring it to life out of the Magazine can help us to be mindful of our callings as missionaries for our dead. I find great joy in doing this work (see the Magazine for March 1969). Alvina Shore, Solihull, Warwickshire, England Thanks so much for The Relief Society Magazine. -I always enjoy it and the lessons it gives to us. I want to thank you especially for the story ''Mama and the Teddy Bear'' by Lael J. Littke, in the April issue. I am also very hard-headed about accepting help from others, and since reading this story I have been striving to overcome this fault. With the inspiration received from this story, and much help from my Heavenly Father, I feel that I am making progress. It has been a wonderful experience learning to receive, and I thank the Magazine and Sister Littke for helping me to develop this quality. Janie Cooks, Kansas City, Missouri The Relief Society Magazine has been a source of inspiration and aid to many of our young members. Many are attending Relief Society for the first time. We feel the greatest gift one could give a loved one away from home is a subscription to this gem of a Magazine. The articles are adaptable to all situations and needs. Margaret Perry, President, Junction City Branch Relief Society, Junction City, Kansas The reason I am writing is because I have in my hands a copy of The Relief Society Magazine for January 1968 which was given me by Elder Winston Palmer. As I thumbed through the Magazine I marveled at the rich reading material, the recipes for the kitchen, the stories and reports of activities provided for the sisters of Relief Society. Elder Arturo Arroyo, Los Ralos, Provincia de Tucuman, Argentina 562 The Relief Society Magazine  563 Tithing Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of The Twelve Apostles:. Ss. 4 Dear Relief Society Sisters: I have been asked to discuss with you the Lord's law of tithing and in doing so, I want to bear my testimony to the truth of this principle. Having served as a branch president, three times as a ward bishop, once as a stake president, twice as a mission president, and fourteen years as the Presiding Bishop of the Church, I have had much to do with tithing records, and I am. Convinced that the Lord has not forgotten his promise that if his people would return unto him, he would return unto them. THE LORD'S LAW OF FINANCE It seems that the Lord had two major objectives in mind in giving to his Church the law of tithing in these Latter-days: First: The most equitable manner of financing his Church, for the burden is distributed according to one's ability to pay, the penny of the widow being equal to the gold piece of the rich man. Second: To test the faith of his people, obedience to the law of tithing being accompanied by a promised blessing. Hence, it is the Lord's law of blessing his people. The Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith this revelation at Far West, Missouri, July 8, 1838, in answer to his supplication: 564 O Lord, show unto thy servants how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing: Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my Church in Zion, For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people. And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord. Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you. And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you. And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen. (D&C Section 119.) THE PURPOSE AND USE OF TITHING While the Saints were attempting to establish Zion in the land of Missouri, they followed this requirement as given by the Lord and placed all their surplus property in the hands of the bishop of his Church in Zion. Since that time they have endeavored to comply with the "standing law" given "unto them forever." And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord. (D&C 119:4.) In this revelation, the Lord indicated the purpose for which the tithing shall be used: For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. (D&C 119:2.) The Lord further directed who _ Shall be responsible to dispose of the tithing: it [tithing] shall be disposed of by a council, composed of the First Presidency of my Church, and of the bishop and his council, and by my high council; and by mine own voice unto them, saith the Lord.... (D&C Section 120.) The Law of Tithing In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland Ohio, September 11, 1831, the Lord made very plain the importance of observing the law of tithing: Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming. (D&C 64:23.) How could one's conscience help but burn within him upon the "coming of the Son of Man," if he realized that he had made no contribution to the expense of establishing God's kingdom in the earth, especially when he came to a realization that all he has he obtained from the Lord, for he created the earth and the fulness thereof, and gave us our lives and our being upon this earth, with a promise that we might "inherit the earth" eternally, if we are faithful. Should we, then, not be willing to pay something for such an inheritance? It is not uncommon for a man in this life to pay money for ten to twenty-five years to purchase a small plot of ground for his use while he lives upon the earth. Should he be less interested in acquiring an eternal inheritance? PAYMENT OF TITHING DEVELOPS FAITH The Lord has always understood that to ask one to surrender, as evidence of religious faith, part of what he has acquired of this world's goods, requires a great measure of faith in obedience. Therefore, in order to develop and test the faith of his 

565 August 1969

 children, the law of sacrifice has been given unto them even when the Lord did not require their gift for the financing of his Church. Take, for example, Cain and Abel—to them was given the law of sacrifice:... Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering: But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door.... (Gen. 4:3-7.) The Lord did not need the fruit of Cain's land or the firstlings of Abel's flock, for they were burned as an offering unto the Lord, but Cain and Abel needed to make this sacrifice to prove their love of God and their faith in him. A careful reading of this text will indicate that Abel's heart was right so he brought "the firstlings of his flock, and the fat thereof," while Cain's offering was made as Satan commanded. (See P. Of G. P., Moses 5:18.) Hence, "the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering: But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell," and darkness entered his heart, and he slew his brother, Abel. Let us now consider Jesus' experience with the rich. Young man: 566 And behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life. And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life keep the commandments. He saith unto him, Which?... (Matt. 19:16-18.) Then Jesus enumerated most of the Ten Commandments, to which the young man replied:... All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet? Jesus said unto him, /f thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. (Matt. 19: 20-22.) It should be noted that the rich young man asked: "What good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?" Then it was that Jesus told him to keep the commandments. When the young man informed him that he had done this from his youth, Mark tells us that "Jesus beholding him loved him." (Mark 10:21.) How wonderful! Jesus loves every man who keeps the commandments, but Jesus tried to teach him the law of perfection, so in answer to the young man's further question: "What lack I yet?" Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. (Matt. 19:22.) In this experience, the Savior taught the rich young man that he should be ready to sacrifice all he had, including his time, and follow Jesus in order to obtain perfection. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored to the earth in these latter-days, would not be perfect did it not provide all the requirements for our Father's children to reach perfection, for this is what Jesus taught: Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. (Matt. 5:48.) Our consideration of the experience of the rich young man will better enable us to understand this teaching of the Master: No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. (Matt. 6:24.) Abel chose to serve the Lord, "and the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering." Cain apparently, in his heart, had greater feeling for Mammon, and his offering was not accepted. The rich young man could not part with his earthly possessions, thus exercising his right of choice, and "he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions," thus evidencing the fact that he chose to serve Mammon rather than God, thereby proving that he could not live the law of perfection which Jesus attempted to teach him. The Church of Jesus Christ provides an opportunity for all men to express their choice. Jesus made this plain: The Law of Tithing Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? Or, What shall we drink? Or, Wherewith shall we be clothed? (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. (Matt. 6:31-33.) THE LAW OF TITHING IN ANCIENT ISRAEL The law of tithing was observed by the prophets of Israel. Abraham paid tithing to Melchizedek: For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him; To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace; Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils. (Heb. 7:1-2, 4.) The Lord gave this commandment to the children of Israel on Mount Sinai: And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is the Lord's: it is holy unto the Lord. (Lev. 27:30.) Thou shalt truly tithe all the increase of thy seed, that the field bringeth forth year by year. And thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God, in the place which he shall choose to place his name there, the tithe of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herds and of thy flocks; that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always. (Deut. 14:22-23.) 

567 August 1969

 Thus the purpose was then as it is now: "that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always." And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly. (II Chron. 31:5.) Honour the Lord with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase. (Prov. 3:9.) Jacob promised a tenth of all the Lord gave him: And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee. (Gen. 28:22.) The sons of Levi were appointed to receive the tithes: And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham. (Heb. 7:5.) OPPOSITION TO THE LAW OF TITHING IN MODERN TIMES When the Latter-day Saints first taught the law of tithing as a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they were opposed by clergy and laity alike, on the grounds 'that tithing belonged to the law of Moses, which was fulfilled in Christ, but that it was not a part of the teachings of the New Testament. It is clear, however, that Jesus taught that they should not neglect the payment of their tithes: Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. (Matt. 23:23; see also Luke 11:42.) Opposition, however, has now ceased and many of the churches have attempted to adopt the law of tithing with questionable results. We know that tithing belongs to the gospel of Jesus Christ, for, as we have already indicated, the Lord gave this principle unto his Church by revelation to his prophet of this dispensation, to "be a standing law unto them forever."