[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 631 | General Feature | Alberta | H. Christensen]
[Alberta H. Christensen]

631 August 1969

 learning but also the cultural arts. The goal has always been to build in the hearts of Latterday Saints an informed faith, an enlightened testimony. Rather than being hostile to knowledge and the arts, the Church has encouraged and sponsored them —hence the rich program of cultural activities emphasizing drama, dance, music, literature, public speaking, etc., in the auxihlary organizations as well as the vast network of schools, seminaries, institutes, and colleges provided by the Church. Nor are these just modern developments. A study of the pioneer days of the Church will reveal that in spite of the struggle for food, clothing, and homes, priority was given to schools, theaters, and music halls, along with chapels and temples, for the pioneers understood that the mind and the spirit need food for growth just as vitally as does the physical body. Their westward-bound wagons were loaded with books and musical instruments as well as spinning wheels and blacksmith forges. Many of the pioneers were self-educated, but most of them were nevertheless educated, even to the point of consciously cultivating skill in elocution, rhetoric, and penmanship. This is our pioneer heritage! No wonder we look back with admiration and a glow of pride, not only for the pioneers' great spiritual and physical courage as they triumphed over human persecution and the hostile, barren desert lands, but also for their love of the beautiful and the intellectually uplifting. "... Seek ye diligently and teach 632 one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." (D&C 88:118.) Thus the Lord gave counsel through the Prophet Joseph Smith as the gospel was being restored, urging us above all else to study the scriptures but also to study other things. What other things? In Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord instructed us that we are to "... Teach one another... In all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God...." including, in_ his words, "... Things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." (D&C 88:77-79.) In Section 90 he advised us to "... Become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people." (D&C 90: 15.) In Section 93, we are counseled to "... Obtain a knowledge of history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man, and all this for the salvation of Zion." (D&C 93:53.) We are even promised that "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection," for "... If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D&C 130: 18-19.) Not only Joseph Smith as he was inspired of the Lord but also Brigham Young stressed the need for learning. Listen to the words of President Young: All the knowledge, wisdom, power, and glory that have been bestowed upon the nations of the earth, from the days of Adam till now, must be gathered home to Zion. Every art and science known and studied by the children of men is comprised within the Gospel. See that your children are properly educated in the rudiments of their mother tongue, and then let them proceed to higher branches of learning; let them become more informed in every department of true and useful learning than their fathers are. When they have become well acquainted with their language, let them study other languages, and make themselves fully acquainted with the manners, customs, laws, governments and literature of other nations, peoples and tongues. Let them also learn all the truth pertaining to the arts and sciences, and how to apply the same to their temporal wants. Let them study things that are upon the earth, that are in the earth, and that are in the heavens. (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 245-46, and 252.) Now, as in the past, those we sustain as our living prophets encourage us to develop our talents and widen our intellectual and cultural horizons as evidenced not only by their encouragement of education but also by the breadth of their own reading. All of us know how abundantly President McKay and the other General Authorities enrich their talks and writings with passages drawn from the great literature of the world. Listen also as President McKay counsels us to harmonize learning with character: Lesson Department Wisdom is the right application of knowledge; and true education—the education for which the Church stands— is the application of knowledge to the development of a noble and a Godlike character.... True education seeks to make men and women not only good mathematicians, proficient linguists, profound scientists, or brilliant literary lights, but also honest men combined with virtue, temperance, and brotherly love—men and women who prize truth, justice, wisdom, benevolence, and selfcontrol as the choicest acquisitions of a successful life. (From Preface to booklet on L. D. S. Church Schools, 1968.) Our first responsibility as members of the Church is to study the scriptures and the words of the modern prophets for the fullness of the gospel that they contain. But beyond these we are invited to explore the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At their best both religion and literature are concerned with building faith and affirming spiritual values and with opposing and exposing evil, worldliness, superficiality, and all things base and. False. Space for this lesson allows us to print only three brief selections on education: Excerpts from "What Makes a Great Book?" by Mortimer Adler, "Cipher in the Snow" by Jean Mizer, and "He Ate and Drank the Precious Words" by Emily Dickinson. In the textbook five other selections are printed with questions and comments intended to stimulate thought and discussion about the proper goals of education and about techniques teachers can use to achieve those goals: (1) an essay by Samuel Scudder describing how famous 

633 August 1969

 Professor Louis Agassiz taught a great lesson about learning through observation, (2) some excerpts from the dialogues of Plato showing how the great Socrates provoked his students into thought by asking provocative questions, (3) a short story by Irwin Edman showing a modern Socrates in action, (4) some excerpts from the writings of the author identifying some of the goals and techniques of good teaching, especially for Latter-day Saint teachers, and (5) ahumorous poem with a point by Leigh Hunt. "WHAT MAKES A GREAT BOOK?" BY MORTIMER J. ADLER In Volume 1, p. 19 of Out of the Best Books, we printed an essay by Mortimer Adler, a distinguished American educator. Because it is such an excellent statement on the power of great books to enlarge and elevate the mind we have decided to reprint it in Volume 5. The following are excerpts from this essay: Great books are those that contain the best materials on which the human mind can work in order to gain insight, understanding, and wisdom. Carl Van Doren once referred to great books as "the books that never have to be written again." They are the rare, perfect achievements of sustained excellence. The richness of great books shows itself in the many levels of meaning they contain. They lend themselves to a variety of interpretations. We need not read other books more than once to get all that they have to say. But we can always go deeper into great books. As sources of enlightenment, they are inexhaustible. 634. Great books transcend the provincial limits of their origin. They remain as world literature, the ones men everywhere turn to again and again through the centuries. Mark Twain once remarked that "The great books are the books that everyone wishes he had read, but no one wants to read." Great books are not easy to read. No one should expect to understand them very well on a first reading, nor even to master them fully after many readings. I have often said that they are the books which are over everyone's head all of the time. That is why they must be read and reread. That is also why they are good for us. Only the things which are over our head can lift us up. "CIPHER IN THE SNOW" This dramatic real-life story was written by Jean E. Mizer, a teacher and counselor in Wood River High School, Hailey, Idaho. The story received the first-place award of $1000 in the National Education Association's 1964 Teachers' Writing Contest and was published in the NEA Journal for November 1964. According to the author the story is true but the names and location have been changed. Cipher in the Snow It started with tragedy on a biting cold February "morning. I was driving behind the Milford Corners bus as I did most snowy mornings on my way to school. It veered and stopped short at the hotel, which: it had no business doing, and I was annoyed as I had to come to an unexpected stop. A boy lurched out of the bus, reeled,. Stumbled, and collapsed on the snowbank at the curb. The bus driver and I reached him at. The same mo- ment. His thin, hollow face was white even against the snow. "He's dead," the driver whispered. It didn't register for a minute. I glanced quickly at the scared young faces staring down at us from the school bus. "A doctor! Quick! ['ll phone from the howel." "No use. I tell you he's dead." The driver looked down at the boy's still form. "He never even said he felt bad," he muttered, "just tapped me on the shoulder and said, real quiet, 'I'm sorry. I have to get off at the hotel.' That's all. Polite and apologizing like." At school, the giggling, shuffling morning noise quieted as the news went down the halls. I passed a huddle of girls. "Who was it? Who dropped dead on the way to school?" I heard one of them half-whisper. _ "Don't know his name; some kid from Milford Corners," was the reply. It was like that in the faculty room and the principal's office. "I'd appreciate your going out to tell the parents," the principal told me. "They haven't a phone and, anyway, somebody from school should go there in person. I'll cover your classes." "Why me?" I asked. "Wouldn't it be better if you did it?" "I didn't know the boy," the principal admitted levelly. "And in last year's sophomore personalities column I note that you were listed as his favorite teacher." I drove through the snow and cold down the bad canyon road to the Evans place and Lesson Department thought about the boy, Cliff Evans. His favorite' teacher! I thought. He hasn't spoken two words to me in two years! I could see him in my mind's eye all right, sitting back there in the last seat in my afternoon literature class. He came in the room by himself and left by himself. "Cliff Evans," I muttered to myself, "a boy who never talked." I thought a minute. "A boy who never smiled. I never saw him smile once." The big ranch kitchen was clean and warm. I blurted out my news somehow. Mrs. Evans reached blindly toward a chair. "He never said anything about bein' ailing." His stepfather snorted. "He ain't said nothin' about anything since I moved in here." Mrs. Evans pushed a pan to the back of the stove and began to untie her apron. "Now hold on,' her husband snapped. "I got to have breakfast before I go to town. Nothin' we can do now anyway. If Cliff hadn't been so dumb, he'd have told us he didn't feel good." After school I sat in the office and stared bleakly at the records spread out before me. I was to close the file and write the obituary for the school paper. The almost bare sheets mocked the effort. Cliff Evans, white, never legally adopted by stepfather, five young half-brothers and sisters. These meager strands of information and the lst of D grades were all the records had to offer. Cliff Evans had silently come in the school door in the mornings and gone out the school 

635 August 1969

 door in the evenings, and that was all. He had never belonged to a club. He had never played on a team. He had never held an office. As far as I could tell, he had never done one happy, noisy kid thing. He had never been anybody at all. How do you go about making a boy into a zero? The gradeschool records showed me. The first and second grade teachers' annotations read "sweet, shy child": "timid but eager." Then the third grade note had opened the attack. Some teacher had written in a good, firm hand, "Cliff won't talk. Uncooperative. Slow learner." The other academic sheep had followed with "dull"; "slow-witted"; "low Il. Q." They became correct. The boy's I. Q. Score in the ninth grade was listed at 83. But his I. Q. In the third grade had been 106. The score didn't go under 100 until the seventh grade. Even shy, timid, sweet children have resilence. It takes time to break them. I stomped to the typewriter and wrote a savage report pointing out what education had done to Chiff Evans. I slapped a copy on the principal's desk and another in the sad, dog-eared file. I banged the typewriter and slammed the file and crashed the door shut, but I didn't feel much better. A little boy kept walking after me, a little boy with a peaked, pale face; a skinny body in faded jeans; and big eyes that had looked and searched for a long time and then had become veiled. I could guess how many times he'd been chosen last to play 636 sides in a game, how many whispered child conversations had excluded him, how many times he hadn't been asked. I could see and hear the faces and voices that said over and over, "You're dumb. You're dumb. You're a nothing, Cliff Evans." A child is a believing creature. Cliff undoubtedly believed them. Suddenly it seemed clear to me: When finally there was nothing left at all for Cliff Evans, he collapsed on a snowbank and went away. The doctor might list 'heart failure" as the cause of death, but that wouldn't change my mind. We couldn't find ten students in the school who had known Cliff well enough to attend the funeral as his friends. So the student body officers and a committee from the junior class went as a group to the church, being politely sad. I attended the services with them, and sat through it with a lump of cold lead in my chest and a big resolve growing through me. I've never forgotten Cliff Evans nor that resolve. He has been my challenge year after year, class after class. I look up and down the rows carefully each September at the unfamiliar faces. I look for veiled eyes or bodies scrouged into a seat in an alien world. "Look, kids," I say silently, "I may not do anything else for you this year, but not one of you is going to come out of here a nobody. Ill work or fight to the bitter end doing battle with society and the school board, but I won't have one of you coming out of here thinking himself a zero." Most of the time—not always, but most of the time—I've succeeded. For Discussion 1. What is the meaning of the title "Cipher in the Snow''? 2. If the need to reach the lonely, insecure child is urgent in public school teaching, why is it equally urgent: (a) in our teaching within the Church? (b) to the woman in Relief Society? And (c) for the mother to reach the child in the home? "HE ATE AND DRANK THE PRECIOUS WORDS" We will give Emily Dickinson the final word in. This lesson on education as she talks about the power of books to liberate and give wings to the human spirit. After all that other people can say in essay and in speech, the poet—the great poet—can often say it better and in fewer words as Emily Dickinson does here: He ate and drank the precious words, His spirit grew robust; He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was dust. He danced along the dingy days, And this bequest of wings Was but a book. What liberty A loosened spirit brings! These selections should aid us all in taking advantage of our opportunities for education. And always we have before us the example of the world's greatest teacher, Christ himself, who exemplified in both his life and his words the statement by Thomas Henry Huxley that the ultimate goal of education is "to learn what is true in order to do what is right."

Lesson Department Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces with commentaries... Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12'', 331 rpm record) with commentaries Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced by Educational Media Service of Brigham Young University May be ordered or picked up from Deseret Book Company outlets in Orange, California; Ogden, Cottonwood Mall and Salt Lake City, Utah PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th * Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 

637 August 1969

 AT THE PIANO My little girl is practicing At the piano, can you hear? Her tiny fingers falter, The notes are not quite clear. Her head is tipped so earnestly As key is matched with note; She doesn't play the melody That the composer wrote. She'll be no concert artist, There's not talent or the time. If she can play the Hymn Book We'll both be suited fine.