NATIONAL RELIEF SOCIETY.

	THERE was a semi-monthly meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society held
at Social Hall on State street, in this
city, on Tuesday April 5th, at 7 o’clock in
the evening. President Zina D. H. Young
in the chair, Vice Presidents Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith were present
with her in the stand, and Emmeline B.
Wells, secretary. There were of the board
of directors a sufficient number for the trans-
action of business and a goodly number of
members. The constitution and by-laws
were read by the secretary; also the min-
utes of the meeting held at the time of the
incorporation.
	Remarks relating to the business of the
meeting and the benefits that would be
derived through the incorporation were
made by President Mrs. Young, and
Vice-President Mrs. Richards.
	The first business was the filling of va-
cancies in the board of directors caused by
the death of Elizabeth Howard and Harriet
D. Bunting since October last.
	Mrs. Adeline S. Barber of Logan was
elected to fill Mrs. Howard’s place in the
board and Mrs. Harriet Y. Brown of Kanab
to fill the place of Mrs. Bunting.
	Fifteen new members were admitted by
vote, and several of the ladies present spoke
briefly upon matters of importance connect-
ted with the organization.
	On Wednesday evening the annual con-
ference of the Relief Society was held at
the same hour, 7 p. m., in the same place,
at which the president, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, presided. There was a very full
attendance, the house being crowded to
overflowing. Verbal reports were made by
presidents and representatives from many
parts of the Territory also from adjacent
states and territories and from Canada and
Mexico.
	Susan E. Martineau, the representative,
had come four thousand miles to attend the
meetings and conferences at headquaters;
other representatives had come from Canada,
New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho,
Wyoming and other far distant places.
	In addition to reports, interesting
speeches were made by the president and
vice-presidents. The conference was con-
tinued on Thursday evening at the same 
place with a full attendance, and other
representatives made reports. Mrs. Burton,
of Arizona, told some very interesting
things concerning the Lamanites in Arizona,
among whom there seems to be great im-
provement.
	Mrs. M. A. Winters, of Pleasant Grove, 
made some explanations concerning a work
she was doing for those who had suffered
during the journeyings and persecutions
of the Saints.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


