A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	DIED on the 26th, of January 1893, at Kanab,
Kane Co. Utah, our much esteemed, Stake
President, Harriet Dye Bunting wife of James L.
Bunting, born Jan. 31st, 1843, at Wymondham
Norfolk, England emigrated to Salt Lake with
her parents in 1853; married at the same place in
1859, moved south to Kanab in 1870, was the
mother of twelve children, nine of whom are liv-
ing, two daughters reside in Arizona and one son
now laboring in the missionary field in West
Virginia; the rest of the family with many friends
surrounded her peaceful death bed. She has
ever been a faithful, wife and mother and an earn-
est worker in the cause of truth, she was selected
as treasurer in the first organization of this Relief
Society, which was effected Nov. 12, 1873; four
years after, Dec. 15th, 1877, was chosen President of
the Kanab Relief Society, which position she
efficiently held until June 14th, 1885 when she
was sustained as President of the Relief Society
of Kanab Stake, which office she still held at the
time of her death—has also been an earnest
Teacher in the Sabbath School, as well as a faith-
ful leader in the choir, was always prompt and
reliable and we can truthfnlly say she has magni-


fied every position where unto she has been
called. Therefore be it,
	Resolved:—That after a life of usefulness our
beloved sister has paid the debt of nature and
gone to rest, and that she was fully prepared by
her exemplary life, and while we do not regret
the change on her part, still we will miss her
kindly presence and influence at our meetings.
	Resolved:—that while we feel sad at parting
with our sister, we will remember her earnest 
exhortations and practical faith in her religion
which has so often imparted encouragment, hope
and comfort to our hearts. Her words of wise
counsel still fill our minds with admiration for
this our noble sister.
	Resolved:—that while words are inadequate to
express her many virtues we will strive to emu-
late her faith and follow her good examples; and
that while we extend our sympathies to the be-
reaved family, yet we congratulate the sons and
daughters of the deceased on the pattern of her
patient and noble life.
Resolved:—that we present a copy of these
resolutions to the bereaved family, that also one
be sent to the EXPONENT, and they be spread
upon the records of this society.
'Tis hard to break the tender cord when love has
	bound our heart,
'Tis hard,so hard to say the  words, must we for-
	ever part?
Dearest loved one we have laid thee in the peace-
	ful grave's embrace,
But thy memory will be cherished 'till we see thy
heavenly face.
ELIZABETH PUGH, Prest.
MARGARET BAIRD,
EMMA WOOLLEY Coun's.
