[column 2]
shed type of all, and yet we who live in
this day and age expect greater results to
follow the dedication of this Temple just
dedicated than any other ever erected to the
most High.
	The prayer offered by President Wood-
ruff on the occasion of the dedication was
the most inspirational and wonderful ex-
pression of power and intercession with the
heavens that we ever have heard. It com-
prised everything essential to the salvation
of the world, and no order or organization
was forgotten, but the blessing of God
earnestly invoked upon all. 
	The sermons and discourses by the First
Presidency partook in a great measure of
the nature of the prayer and were full of
charity, long suffering, forbearance, and
forgiveness. The spirit of love, the love of
the Gospel was apparent through all the 
services. The choir which consisted of three
hundred voices (the ladies all in white),
under the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens,
rendered the most excellent music, but the
most striking feature of the dedicatory
exercises was the “Hosanna Shout,” three
times repeated by the entire congregation
who rose to their feet and remained stand-
ing during the time. This shout of Hos-
anna thrilled the hearts of the vast multi-
tude, and echoed grandly through the mag-
nificent building; so exultant and enrap-
tured were the saints in their rejoicing that
their faces beamed with gladness, and the
whole place seemed glorified and sanctified
in recognition of the consecration made on
that momentous and never-to-be-forgotten
occasion. The prayers of the people had
been answered, that their venerable  and
beloved President might live and preside at
the dedication of this Temple, the most
important one yet finished or ever begun in
this generation. This was an accomplished
fact and there and then it seemed to some
at least who witnessed the ceremonies, that
angels and celestial beings were there in
power though not visible to human sight.
	The day was one looked forward to,
finally and longingly by many thousands
who have already passed to “the other
side,” and their joys was as great perhaps
greater even than ours who are here, as
the increase of knowledge in a higher
state, which they have doubtless attained,
must exceed that of finite minds.
	The services of the Dedication continued
until April 24, thirty-one meetings had
been held at which the First Presidency
and Apostles with many other leading men
of the Church were regular in attendance.
The same order of exercises was observed
all the way through, and from first to last
the most intense interest prevailed.
	The Sunday School children passing
through the Temple and joining in the
“hosannahs” must have been a sight for
angels to gaze upon, and undoubtedly
myriads of them were present.
	The Latter-day Saints look forward
with anxious expectancy to the building of
the Temple so long talked of and prophe-
sied of in the center stake of Zion, many
have been the prophecies concerning it, and
their fulfillment is as firmly believed in as
though it were an accomplished fact.
	The spirit of charity has been very appar-
ent and its influence has been comforting
and encouraging to the people. President
Woodruff and those associated with him
have set an example for the Latter-day
Saints in this respect that should be wide
spreading in its effect through-out the
length and breadth of Zion.


