NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. FENWICK MILLER will attend the
World’s Congress of Representative Women
as an official Representative from the
Women’s Franchise League of England,
and will deliver an address upon “Wives
and Mothers: Their Civil Duties,” in the
Department Congress of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association.
	“SOME of our most celebrated women
are going over to Chicago for “The World’s
Fair.” Among them are Mrs. Fenwick
Miller, the distinguished authoress, journa-
list and lecturer. Mrs. Miller will doubtless
write an account of the Fair for some of the
London papers, and I am glad to hear that
she is also going to show the Americans
how an Englishwoman can speak. Among
our platform speakers Mrs. Miller is almost
supreme. She is never nervous, she has
a good presence, an excellent manner, and
a beautiful voice. And she has the subtle,
incommunicable art of being able to enchain
the attention of large crowds of people. I
believe she proposes to be absent for about
two months. I wonder if she will intro-
duce to Brother Johnathan her lecture on
London Society? I fancy it would prove
one of the most popular lectures ever de-
livered in America.”
	From the “Hearth and Home” of Eng-
land.
	NOT long since the Roman Church was
the only one to observe the Easter season,
but of late years the custom has spread all
over the Christian world and at Easter tide
the churches vie with each other in their
beautiful floral decorations, trailing vines
and potted plants are on every side, but the
flower most used for the Easter decoration
is the fair tall Easter lily. In Bermuda at
this time of the year there are vast fields of
these glorious lilies bowing and swaying in
the April winds. What a wonderful sight
this would be to us who so admire but rare-
ly see this graceful flower.
	'If I only could write the colors
		Of the lilacs towering plumes,
	And make you feel in a sentence
		The spell of its sweet perfumes.”
	APRIL—the month of hope the month of
promise. How we laugh in its sweet sun-
shine, how we weep it its soft rains. What
fanciful thoughts possess us as we watch the
purple glow in its twilight—thoughts of old
folk’s love— sweet memories of the past fill
our soul and with the setting sun tears fall
from eyes that but a moment since were
radiant with smiles.
How sweet the poet sung who said, “My
love is like an April day, all smiles all
tears.” It is the month dear to the heart,


so tender, so gentle, like a little child it
seems, and every bud on the trees, every
leaf, every blade of grass is tenderly
watched for, do they not refresh the sight
after the long cold barren winter. How
eagerly we listen for the first sweet notes of
the “meadow lark” and how gently we turn
the soil for the first sight of the fragrant
violet, then to rejoice when the dark green
leaves and fair purple blossoms of the stately
lilac bush present themselves. Dear, ten-
der April we welcome thee.


