by the other he is enticed to the evil and
the wrong. Upon the choice he makes,
either happiness or misery ensues. The
consequences of that choice cannot be
avoided.
	Man, the lesser, by submitting to God
the greater has claim upon His support,
protection and that genial companionship
that contributes to his happiness, and makes
him a sharer of all the good that can be
bestowed by the strong upon the weak.
Like considerations apply in the relation of
the sexes.
	In either case the consequences of the
choice made effects both the present and the
future, reaching into Eternity for its final
adjustment and realization.
	This right of choice is of comparatively
like importance in establishing family re-
lations, as in the higher relation; and simi-
lar rules may be observed, to secure like
advantages, whether of a temporary or per-
petual mature.
	First the woman being the lesser, has the
right of choice as to who shall be her pro-
tector and to whom she will give her
allegiance. This right and exercise of
choice is what creates the obligation she is
under to the person chosen who may accept
the union desired. Of this right, above all
others, she should not be deprived. By per-
suasion she may be restrained from exercis-
ing it to her injury.
	The union consummated, rights involving
duties are secured by the man, and obliga-
tions are accepted by the woman.
	The important question now is, what are
these rights, duties and obligations? A
summary answer may be found in Scripture
language, “As Christ is the head of the
Church, so is man the head of the wo-
man.”
	Christ has promised that all those who
will live in unison with him and labor to
build up his kingdom, shall be made equal
with him, as he claims the right to be
equal with his Father, by laboring to
build up his Father’s Kingdom. The wife
has a right to claim like consideration from
her. husband.
	As the spirit of Christ, a spirit of love
and kindness, is given to and is exercised
toward those who are one with him; so the
wife has the right to demand and receive
like generous and ever-loving consideration
from her chosen head. All the promises
Christ has made to his followers, of peace,
joy and spiritual development, the husband
should use his best endeavors to secure to a
devoted wife. The husband must be
righteous, just and merciful in all his re-
quirements, to entitle him to the confidence
and love of his house hold.  He is only en-
titled to the love and regard of those who are

[Column 3]
in his care, as he shall love and honor Christ
in whose care he is. Indeed, a man must not
only be a Christian, but should have priest-
hood—the right to preside over the destiny
of others, before entering upon the duties
which he would owe to wife and family.
The family relation is in all respects an or-
dinance of Heaven, and can only be honor-
ed by carefully observing the order and
laws of its creation, and appointments.
	Only by the inspiration of God’s love
can any man fully appreciate what he owes
to a virtuous and devoted wife. "She is
more precious than rubies." But what of
the wife! This question of choice may be
a delicate one to a sensitive young lady as
most of them are; but as it has to be made
sooner or later, the question arises, by what
rules should she be governed in making it?
The nature of the covenant entered into
determines this. It is an eternal covenant
made in view of securing eternal blessings,
everlasting honor, glory and dominion.
These cannot be obtained through any un-
holy alliance or association. It is written,
“be ye not unequally yoked together with
unbelievers.”
	For a young lady to give herself to any
one who could not secure to her the object
of that union, would certainly be a very
great mistake. Nay, more, a most lament-
able calamity. While she is one with, she
cannot rise above the condition of excellence
in the one to whose destiny she is allied.
	The woman may be all that was designed
she should be, an help-meet for the man,
but the unappreciative man may not be
willing to receive help from her and by
her, all along the pathway to the exal-
tations and the lives that are glorified;
but however willing he may be, his ability
to do for her can only extend so far as he
has knowledge of the divine purpose, ac-
quired by divine inspiration. To obtain
this he must live by the laws of God; must
be a saint to be entitled to the blessings of
Abraham in the family of the faithful.
	It is most essential then, that on the
part of the woman, her choice be wisely
made; that she be able to discover elements,
attributes and desires, in the one to whom
she gives herself and love, able and willing
to secure to her and her increase, all that
God has promised to bestow upon those
who love Him.
	This family relation growing out of the
union of the sexes is of God for and to His
glory, and only by and under the influence
of His spirit and authority can its anticipated
results be realized.
	Would to God that more of the young
men in Zion were worthy of that fair
maiden’s love waiting to be theirs in the
new and everlasting covenant.
	In the home thus sanctified by the
presence of a bride, pure and lovely in her
sphere, as the Bride the Lamb’s wife must
be to her coming Bridegroom, Motherhood
is acquired; and by her, the increase in that
home in lives of innocence, purity and
loveliness, through which is to be developed
under that mother’s guidance, virtues of
faith, hope and charity; the same eternal
principles that find an abiding home in


heaven from whence the spirit-child has
come. An evidence of heaven’s approval
of such a place as home made holy by a
mother’s sacred presence and devotion.
	Home influence exerted and directed by a
mother’s love, is an abiding one, with those
who listen to her gentle teachings. It
reaches to old age, and brings the wanderer
back; it takes deep root down in the soul
where no evil can reach to entirely eradicate
it. It is an inheritance a mother bequeathes
to her children, and through them to gen-
erations yet unborn; a legacy more precious
than fine gold. Such a wife and mother
the husband and father delights to honor,
the heavens smile upon her with admiration,
and angels are the companions of her home
as ministering messengers, to the cherubs
in her care.
	Husband and wife, parents and children
are the prominent relations that constitute
the family and from which others grow.
	The family soon grow into a community,
which soon develops into society, and
society when properly organized becomes
the State, and as such demands recognition
everywhere. The State enacts laws for the
protection and well being of its citizens and
the perpetuity of its dominion. Judges
administer the laws, and justice by judg-
ment will maintain the rights of all; and if
righteousness is the foundation of all this
development, as determined by the law of
God who governs the universe and all things
therein, it becomes a part and parcel of our
Father’s dominion. He is from everlasting
to everlasting, and is King of Kings; or,
otherwise expressed, is King ever many
kings all of whom are reigning over their
own, and in their own right as kings and 
priests unto God. Their kingdoms also
shall be everlasting, and their dominions
shall never pass away.
	All this is to be realized in the family
relation, and can spring from no other
source. It is God’s plan, is of no human
device; as man’s organization perfectly
adapted to its consummation fully proves to
every intelligent being engaged in so grand 
a creative world. This wonderful adaptation
of the family for the object in view is suf-
ficient evidence of its divine origin.
	The foundation of kingdoms is thus laid
under the mutual guidance of father and
mother and the power of its endurance will
depend entirely upon the spiritual element
in which that foundation is laid. The
temporal, that which is of the earth, must
pass away; that which is spiritual and is from
heaven, must remain, and be held account-
able for the choice made while in this pro-
bation; if good, then peace and glory the
reward; if evil, then sorrow and misery; as
the justice and mercy of the father of the
spirits of all flesh shall determine.
	Our Father’s words and works are for
the “immortality and eternal life of man.’’
Man is the child of God, partaking of his 
spiritual and eternal nature, and how fear-
ful the responsibility of those to whom they
are entrusted for their education and 
development; that they may be able to 
dwell in His presence and abide His glory.
All such will have power to do for their
children, what God the Father has done for
His. The consummation of sublimest
thought—of heaven’s grand design.


