	IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNATURE
	(By Frances E. Lvnigan.)
	IN these days of multitudinous correspon-
dence the necessity for some way of show-
ing in a woman's signature, whether she

[Column 3]
be maid, wife or widow, whether she be of
the married orunmaried estate, is realized
as never before.
	The mystery of the usual feminie sig-
nature when it is attached to a business
letter, leads almost invariably to embarass-
ment on the part of the answered.  No
woman likes to be addressed with the Quak-
erish simplicity of "Mary Brown" whether
she be matron or maid, nor if she be the
former does she wish to be addressed as the
latter.
	In proceeding to some opinion as to the
best course to be adopted, the thing which
must not be done should first be thoroughly
understood.  The vulgarity of the titular
signature "Mrs. Mary Brown," or "Miss
Susan Smith," affixed after a "yours very
truly" can only be excused by its evident
intent to be one of the solutions of the
problem.  This form is the one to be
avoided.  A fashion recommended by com-
mon sense,simplicity and good taste, is that
of placing "Miss," in brackets, a little to
the left of the name,as:
	Yours very truly,
	[Miss] Mary Smith.
	Its equivalent for the married woman is
found by writing below her signature, “Ad-
dress Mrs. John Smith,” as:
	Yours very truly,
	Mary Smith.
	Address Mrs. John Smith.
	The value of concerted action is un-
questioned, and the necessity for it in the
accomplishment of any given purpose quite
as evident, therefore, if this problem of
identification of signature is ever to be
solved, it can only be by united agreement
on the part of women to adopt for all time
some such form as the above in their busi-
ness correspondence.
	The growing fashion of giving girl-
children but one name, as "Helen" or
"Katherine," so that when, if they marry,
they may retain, with their new signature,
their full maiden name; is part of this
subject of identification of signature.
"Mollie Irene Brown" is not as euphonious
nor as sensible as "Mollie Garfield Brown"
or "Nellie Grant Sartoris."  This custom
has the further advantage of securing the
woman's immediate recognition not only as
her husband's wife but also as her father's
daughter.  Mrs. Brown or Mrs. Sartoris
signifies but little, but Mrs Garfield Brown
or Mrs. Grant Sartoris tells its own story.


