[Column 2]
had a valuable companion, a woman of wit
and of tact, and she herself was bright and
of a charming personality. Her years
added dignity to her position and manner,
and left to herself, she had the self-poise
that gave her prestige wherever she went.
There was no hesitation about her as in the
days when Lord Walton was living to
scrutinize her every look and action. Be-
sides the bitter experience of the last few
years had so subdued her former imperious-
ness that her good qualities were more
noticable.
	The news she recieved from England was
not exactly satisfactory, but Maitland put
everything in the best light possible and
his letters were her chief source of informa-
tion. The young heir of the Walton's was
growing finely, the mother was regaining
her usual health again, and Dr. Bland and
family pursuing the even tenor of their
way. Word has been received form Clair
and Mr. Harrison who were enthusiastic in
regard to the country, the tropical fruits etc.
but no word came of their return to England.
	Lady Anna Walton as soon as she was
able to go out, rode over to her counsin's and
from thence to the old castle to which she
seemed now more fondly attached than ever
before. The romance of her courtship and
secret interviews with Maitland (her lower)
were sweeter in her memory than the
realities of her everyday life with the hus-
band. She loved her babe in her own
dreamy way, but she only saw him now and
then when the nurse thought proper, when
she had asked for him at first, she was re-
minded that she was not equal to such an
exertion, and her maternal affection had not
been strengthened by the constant care and
hourly association of mother  and child, as
in the case of women who nurse their own
infants. She noticed on her first visit to
Dr. Bland's how very tender and solicitous
her cousin was with her little boy, and re-
marked languidly, "Cousin mine, how I
wish I could be allowed to have my baby to
myself as you have, I should be so much
happier, I am so lonely and Maitland is
never at home, my fancy work don't inter-
est me now and Clair is away, and there is
no music, and I am too weak to play by
myself, besides when I touch the harp, my
heart is too full-and-" here Lady Anna
broke down with a sob and a sigh, too much
overcome to proceed further. Her cousin
was deeply affected and scarcely knew
what she ought to say—but simply replied,
"that is one of the disadvantages of titled
people, there are so many things that people
enjoy that would not be 'correct' in society
where you move; I would rather be associated
with my babe than have the distinction of
nobility of rank!”
	“Sometimes I think so,” replied Lady
Walton, “but I am not even privileged to
think for myself." though her sobs almost
choked her utterance. Mrs. Bland was
careful not to say too much on this subject,
she would have been glad to take her to
her bosom and caress her, as one would a
child, but she dared not lest it would have
caused still further excitement, and she
knew how necessary it was that she should
be kept as calm as possible, for her condition
was such as to cause one who saw it plainly
great anxiety. Maitland knew very little
about women, or how to care for one so
fragile as his young wife; his mother was
comparatively strong and he had known
very little sickness, in fact his life had been
a very idle and useless one, and now in his

[Column 3]
manhood he was not prepared for any strug-
gle with difficulties, or any emergency, but
shrank from all that was in the least of an
unpleasant nature.
	At the time of this interview with Lady
Walton, Mrs. Bland was in her own morn-
ing room, with baby amusing himself while
she industriously plied her needle, and in-
deed the room and its inmates were a pretty
picture of serenity and content. It was a
plain room with only simple furniture, for 
the doctor was only well to do and his wife
had too much thought of the futre to be
extravagant in her home. The windows
looked towards the garden and the sweet
perfume of the flowers was in the air, and 
the scene was pleasant; it was a chilly
morning rather, and there was a bright fire
in the grate, and a brighter smile on the
face of mother and child.
	Lady Anna sat thinking of the spirit of 
happiness that rested upon her cousin and
wondered at her own discontent, her cousin
half divining her thoughts said, "Anna
what would make life happier, is there any-
thing I can do for you or my husband?"
Meeting no response she added, "would
you like Clair to come back or your uncle
Robert?" Mrs. Bland was always cautious
in mentioning the name of Rob Harrison,
it gave her an indescriblable thrill, she
could not account for. Lady Anna replied
"no cousin Jane there is nothing I can ask
for that you or anyone can give me, some-
times I think I would like to go away to
another country, where no one would know
me, and I could be natural and not have to
dress and be gay, and go out and meet
people that criticize my every word and
look. I should like to be with you and
baby and the doctor, and uncle Robert and
Clair and my baby and Maitland always, 
on an island or away from the rest of the
world.”
	“I’m afraid that can never be cousin, we
would have to mingle with some society,
and it might not be as agreeable as that you
have now, people cannot have things their
own way in this world, it seems to me we
ought to make the best of our surroundings
and not murmur against our fate. Don't
you remember before your marriage you
thought if only you and Maitland could be
united, all sorrow would be at an end, and
now that things have turned out so much
more favorable than we anticipated, and
yet you are less satisfied than ever before.”
	‘Well cousin Jane, let us go away from
England, would the doctor consent to it?
Do you think if I could persuade Maitland,
it might be better for him, new scenes, and
things that might interest him and awaken
new thoughts turning his mind in a differ-
ent direction?”
	“To your first question whether the doc-
tor would consent, I cannot possibly tell,
having never entertained such an idea, but
I will speak of it, inadvertently at first and
see what his mind is; I don't think he is at
all fond of new places and I fear he would
dislike a new country still more. ’’
	‘Ah me, I wish I knew what would be
the best course to pursue to ensure peace of
mind if not real happiness. Come cousin
Jane let us go over to the old place, it may
be it will bring back pleasant recollections,
I should like to see some of the rooms
again, since they have been remodeled and
re-furnished. My mother's room where she
died, where I was born, when I lived there
I had none of this sentiment; it has come
with my experience, these last few months,


O,I have grown ages older, how different
everything seems, you who are so much
older appear even younger than I do.”
After their conversation Mrs. Bland and
her cousin drove over to the Castle, and
went through some of the rooms, but Lady
Anna was so much affected that her cousin
hurried her away lest she should give way
to excessive weeping.
	The garden the shady walks and corners,
the old lodge where she had often waited
under the great sighing elms, for her sweet-
heart in the days gone by that were so
sweet to her now seemed more to her than
people, she loved them more and in fact
they seemed more companionable. These
haunts were very dear to both these young
women for many reasons. Recollections
that were unpleasant even, were almost
hallowed by time; though the time had been
short so much had occurred that it
seemed as Lady Anna had remarked, that
ages had transpired since they were all at
home in the old place.
	The only thing considered afterwards in
regard to leaving England, was whether
Lady Walton Sen. would consent to going
with them, or their leaving her and the estate
for her to manage. Lady Anna felt re-
lieved in having had this talk with her
cousin, and her mind seemed made up to
leave her native land and go among new
scenes and society.


