PERSONAL REMINISCENCES.

	My husband cut a large heap of tender
twigs, placed them evenly, then placed a
Buffalo robe over them which, with plenty
of covering made a comfortable bed. The
fresh air, laden with the odor of the pines,
the gentle swaying of the trees was all
novel and delightful to me and while the
rest of the camp slumbered restfully, my
mind wandered away to my home, far
across the seas, and to the loved ones there,
but joy and thankfulness mingled lovingly
with the sadness. Not then, or ever since,
have I regretted the ties I had found which
were so different from the majority of man-
kind. One of the first things my husband
did, was to overhaul our supplies, take out
the seed grain, then carefully estimate the
probable length of time before harvest,
How many were depending upon him for
sustenance, ration them accordingly. He
concluded that if we had our wheat ground
into unbolted flour, we could have from
half to three quarters of a pound a day to
each person. This might seem ample, but
when it is remembered that we had no
vegetables, milk or butter, and hungry
winter coming on, it was but short allow-
ance, to eke out our bread, a steer, the best
one we had was killed; and there was not
fat enough in the whole creature to fry the
liver. This was put down in salt, (we had
plenty of that) so you see what our fare
was, plenty of lean corned beef and a little
Graham bread, what little groceries we had
left at the end of our journey were re-
served for sickness.
	We held meetings, visited each other and
were comparatively happy and contented,
and the winter passed away. As early as
possible in the spring the brethren made
preparations to put in garden, and plant
corn, most of the wheat had been sown in
the fall. About the 18th of March the
equinoctial storm set in, and it began to
rain, and it kept on raining for over a week.
We were told that there was no rain to
speak of in this country, so, in building
our roofs, they were made nearly flat.
They were constructed of—first poles put
as closely together as possible, then dried
grass and weeds, then a good layer of
earth, which made a warm roof, but alas!
not impervious to rain. So we had rain
out of doors and a mud-fall in the house,
for the continued fall of rain so thoroughly
soaked the earth over head that the down-
pour was mud, good-honest-mud. You can
imagine the condition our beds and bed-
ding were in, as long as there was a dry
spot, we would move it there, but after a
while there was no dry spot. One of the
family had a babe nine days old, she stayed
in bed till it was soaked through, then she
was placed in a chair before the fire with an
umbrella over her head. Sometimes the
rain would cease, and the sun show his
face, and we would put out the bedding to
dry but alas; it would cloud up again and

