[Column 2]
was going on, until some of the sisters came
and said Brother Maiben was waiting for
us.  Hurrying with them, imagine my sur-
prise when I entered to see so many seated
around the room, I began to feel that some-
thing was up, but was not certain until Bro.
Maiben arose and spoke very beautifully
and feelingly upon our associations and
Temple labors and announced that our
gathering was in honor of the seventy-first
anniversary of Sister Snow's birthday.
	He was followed by Andrew Thompson
and others after which President Maiben
called on me to speak.  I arose feeling
very humble and full for gratitude to my
brethren and sisters for the kindness ex-
tended to me on this occasion. The meet-
ing was clo ed by singing Doxology, after
which a few moments were spent in hand
shakings, congratulations and good wishes.
Supper was then announced and President
Maiben kindly invited us to go to the
dining room where a large table was spread
and beautifully decorated with fruit and
flowers and loaded down with the bounties
of the earth.  About forty persons were
seated around the table, and everything the
heart could wish spread before them.
Near the head of the table was a large
beautifully ornamented cake, prepared by
the ladies of the Temple and bearing the
inscription.  "M. W. Snow, aged seventy-
one.'  We enjoyed ourselves until about
dark, when all returned to our homes with 
blessings for each other n thankfulness to
our Heavenly Father.
	"I feel that great credit is due to Sisters'
C. A. Conover, Christina Willardson and
Nellie Jensen, the committee who instituted
the surprise and also to Brother John Whit-
beck for his generosity and able assistance.
Nor must we forget President Maiben, who
in his kind and friendly manner made the
occasion as pleasant as possible. President
Lund was called away to the city, which
we very much regretted, but he left his
blessings and approval for the day.  We
pray the blessings of heaven may rest upon
him, for we love, honor and respect him in
this holy Temple.  All present contributed
to the occasion.  About fifty persons were
present, many of them presented me with
beautiful tokens of their love and remem-
brance, helping to make it one of the fairest 
flowers in the garland of memory."
	Upon reading this correspondence, I felt
that it would be only proper to send it to
the EXPONENT,  believing that its many
readers would be pleased to know of the
honor conferred upon one so widely known
and dearly beloved as is Sister Minerva.
