[Column 2]
the weather would resume its normal con-
dition All were not quite as bad off as we
were, for some had better roofs, and one
man had built a gabled roof, and I can
assure you he had plenty of company while
the storm lasted.
	But there came a change the sun’s genial
rays smiled on us once more, and soon
everything was made comfortable, and no
one of us sustained colds or injury in any
way.
	By this time our provisions began to get
very short. We were working very hard
to help get in the corn of which my hus-
band put in a large area. He had built a
dugout in the side of the bank close to the
land he was planting and tending, I some-
times drove the oxen while he held the
plow (I had learned how the year before) I
dropped corn, while he covered it, cooked
our thistle greens, and often walked a mile
over plowed ground to get a pail of butter-
milk from some more fortunate, but kind
neighbor to wash down the greens.
	Thus we toiled and starved through our
labors. I well remember one afternoon
several of the family with my husband
going to look at our wheat. It was a
sickening sight, every stalk was bowed
down by large crickets. We looked on it
in silence a little while, then my husband
said:— “Here is our wheat covered with
devouring crickets, we are a thousand miles
from supplies, unless God interposes,
starvation stares us in the face.” Yet even
in this great strait, not even a doubt
entered our minds, for we firmly believed
in, and trusted that God, who had kept and
preserved us hitherto. And every one has
heard how the gulls came, gorged them-
selves with the crickets, flew to the lake,
disgorged themselves, came again, till the
plague was stayed, and we harvested more
wheat to the acre than seemed possible
under the circumstances, for we had not
then learned to irrigate.
	My first babe was born on the 7th day of
July 1848. Through my illness (which
was protracted) I had no bread, for the
last few days I had managed to make a pan-
cake, but I had got to the last ounce of
flour. The midwife kindly brought me a
piece of bread, and, some of my neighbors,
whose kindness I shall never forget,
brought me a little of their little. On the
Monday, the 10th, my husband went early
in the morning sickle in hand, cut a little
wheat here and there where it had ripened,
threshed it with flail, and wagon cover,
took it on his shoulder to Brother Neff’s
mill, had it ground, brought it home, had
a big loaf baked in a bake kettle, and the
whole family sat down to dinner in the
room where I was, so that I might enjoy it
with them. Just think, what a feast! The
first time in nine months we had all the
bread we could eat. My husband remarked
while eating dinner, “This is the first time
since I came into the church that I have
reaped what I have sowed, I have either
gone on missions, and left my labors for
others to reap the benefits, or I have been
driven by mobs from my possessions.”
	Though I had not had scarcely a full en-
joyable meal through the nine months
previous to the birth of my babe, yet she
was a plump healthy child, with apparently
no particular craving and has always been
a rather small eater. On the 10th, of Aug.
we had what we called our "Harvest feast,’’
the brethren built a bowery and stand, and
raised a liberty pole, on which was corn
eight feet high, large sheaves of wheat,

[Column 3]
oats, barley, rye and other productions for
exhibition; we feasted on the good things
we had raised, we had bread, butter, cheese,
pastry, melons, green corn, beef and so on.
We had music, songs of praise, prayer and
thanksgiving, congratulations, speeches,
recitations and dancing; but the most grand
and impressive of all to me was, the great
and united shout of Hosanna, “Hosanna!
Hosanna! to God and the Lamb.”
	It surely was a shout of heart-felt praise
and thanks to God. Scarcely a year had
elapsed since we had arrived here in an al-
most starving condition, and now we had
plenty to eat, though we, as a family had
not raised enough wheat, we had plenty of
corn-meal. The corn we planted was a
late variety called “Missouri Shoe-peg,”
which yielded well, but did not fully ripen.
The way we used to manage when we
wanted a grist, was to spread a lot of ears
on the loose boards over head; when dried
by the heat of the fire (we had big fires on
the hearth,) the men folks would bring
down the pile, get a washtub, put a board
across for a seat, then put a sharpened spade
face downwards across the board and by
sitting down on it hold it in place, then
draw the ears along the sharp edge of the
spade. If the corn was dry, a bushel was
soon shelled, taken to mill and ground,
then sifted at home. Happy were they who
owned a seive, for several families had to
use one, and those who had none of their
own, had to borrow of their neighbor.
Our cattle had become very fat and we had
a dry cow that, when killed, yielded nearly
a hundred ponds of fat, besides the great
amount we tried out, every piece we cooked
yielded so much dripping that we had
plenty for shortening and to make our rath-
er musty corn bread very enjoyable.
	One little incident I must not forget to
mention. My shoes were worn out, and
when I wanted to join in the festivites, the
question arose as to what I should wear on
my feet; there were no stores to go to, I
could not have bought a pair of shoes for
love or money. What little people had, they
had brought with them a thousand miles,
and for their own use most decidedly.
	At last I heard of a lady who had bought
a buckskin of the Indians, of which to
make her son a pair of pants. I went to
her and asked her to sell me the pieces to
make a pair of moccassins, she said “I
have no use for money, but if you will let
me have a cravat I have seen you wear, you
can have them.” She had noticed a neck-
tie I had worn which she coveted, so I was
glad to make the exchange. I made me a
neat pair of mocassins of which I felt
very proud. I went in them to the
festivities danced my first dance in them and
felt as if I was treading on air.
	There was a song composed for the oc-
casion by Elder P. P. Pratt which touched
upon the death of our Prophet and Patriarch,
the driving from Nauvoo, the wanderings
and trials of the saints and our safe arrival
in this our mountain home. I remember a
line here and there and the last verse entire,
“Long, long have we wandered as exiles forlorn,
Without any harvest, without any home;
But Lo! in the mountains new sheep-folds appear
And a harvest of plenty to crown the glad-year.
CHORUS.
So we’ll join in the dance and we’ll join in the 
	song,
To thee, Oh! Jehovah, new praises belong;
All honor, all glory we render to thee,
For here in the mountains thy people are free.
	LAST VERSE.
Tho’ storms of commotion distress every realm,
And dire revolutions the nations o’er whelm;


Tho' Babylon trembles, and thrones cease to be,
Yet here in the mountains thy people are free.
	CHORUS.
Let us join in the dance, let us join in the song,
To thee, Oh! Jehovah, new praises belong;
All honor, all glory, we render to thee,
For here in the mountains thy people are free.
	In what I have written, I have used the
expression, "my husband" when some-
time I should have said "our husband"
for I was one of several wives, some of
them as noble women as ever lived. The 
one I traveled and drove team with was one
of my husband's wives. A better, or more
noble woman I never knew. In our travel-
ing together we sometimes took turns, she
driving one day and I the next, she had a
delicate babe, and when she drove I took
care of it, and vice versa, and through all
the vicissitudes of our life together we have
loved and respected each other greatly, and
she has always been very near and dear to
me, and her children are next to my own.
	This principle of marriage if understood
and lived rightly, does not, as many sup-
pose, develop the baser feelings common to
fallen humanity; but rather the higher and
nobler attributes. It teaches unselfishness,
that the world and all it contains was not
made for you alone; but that others have
feelings, rights and privileges as well as
you have and are just as worthy of con-
sideration. If lived prayerfully and patient-
ly it tends to purify and ennoble the heart,
expand the mind, and one to understand
and comprehend a higher life which can be
learned in no other way.
	GATHA.
	March 7th, 1893.


