SANPETE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion held in Ephraim,
March 11, 1893. Counselor Sarah Petersen
presiding. Singing, "O give me back my
Prophet dear." Prayer by Bro. R. N.
Allred. Singing, "Prayer is the soul's
sincere desire." Statistical and financial
report of the Relief Society of the Stake
read, also a letter from President M. A. P.
Hyde. The Relief Society of Mt. Pleasant,
Fairview, Fountain Green, Ephraim and
Fayette were each reported as being in a
flourishing condition. Counselor Minerva
W. Snow felt that we had been edified by
the sisters that had spoken. Said here be-
fore me are some of the children of our
Father in Heaven and those who are striv-
ing to keep the commandments of God.
Seek unto the Lord in humility. The
Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet Joseph. We are working with
men who hold the Holy Priesthood. We
are wonderfully blessed by having the
privilege of working in the Holy Temple.
Spoke at some length of her labors in the
Manti Temple. Advised us to study our
duties to the best of our ability and ask the
Lord to assist us. We should prepare our-
selves that we may be worthy of going in-
to the Salt Lake Temple. Let us be hum-
ble and prayerful continually that we may
be counted worthy of the blessings of our
Heavenly Father. If we see a sister that
seems to be on the downward track, let us
go to her and speak kindly and try to lead
her in the right path. She may have had
trials that have been hard to bear. Ex-
horted us to try and be more united and
strive to live lives of holiness.
	Apostle Lund expressed his pleasure in
meeting with the sisters in their conference.
Said, "We do not live this life only. A
greater object is in view, viz., eternal life."
	The good you do here is preparing you
for hereafter. In doing good you bless
yourself as well as your husband. Do not
speak of the evils of others but be kind and
charitable to all. Strive to help bear the
burdens of others and your own will be-
come lighter. Blessed the sisters in all
their endeavors to do good. Sister M. W.
Snow requested the sisters to remember
Sister M. A. P. Hyde in their prayers.
Counselor Sarah Peterson exhorted us to all
diligence in keeping the commandments of
God. Said we did not comprehend the day
in which we live, that we have the privilege
of going into the Temples.
	Sister Helen Armstrong was unanimousiy
sustained as the corresponding secretary of
the Stake. Conference adjourned for three
months. Choir sang, "We thank thee O,
God, for a Prophet." Benediction by Bro.
N. Christensen.
		MARY ANN FRANTZEN, Stake Sec.


