							VIOLET IVIE.

Editor Exponent:
	OUR little town of Escelanta has had a shadow
of gloom cast over it, caused by the death of two
of our noble sisters. The first was Sister Lucy
Cooley who passed away Dec. 30th, 1892, she
was the daughter of George and Sarah Prince
born Dec. 29th, 1861 at Kaysville, Davis Co.
She was a kind and dutiful daughter ever obe-
dient to her parents and always of a religious turn.
She formed the acquaintance of Joseph Woolley
and was married to him Sept. 12th 1878. She was
a faithful member of the Relief Society, and an
energetic teacher, on her death bed she expressed
a desire to soon be able to go round teaching.
She was a good, exemplary teacher always striv-
ing to do her duty. She was a devoted wife and
mother. She leaves a husband and six small
children to mourn her loss. She was loved and
respected by all who knew her; she suffered
greatly but never murmured; she died as she had
lived firm in the principles of the gospel in hopes
of a glorious resurrection. Blessed are they who
die in the Lord.


AT the same place March 26th 1893, Sister
Elinor Barker was called to leave this world of
sorrow. She was the daughter of Thomas and
Susannah Heap, born in Yorkshire, England
Dec 3rd 1858, Emigrated with her parents in 1863
in Brother McArthur's company; they settled in
Toquerville where she was inured to all the
hardships of the early settlement of that district
of country; they were pioneers in many of the
settlements of the saints; she was one of the first
women that crossed the rough and trackless
mountains into this valley, where the flourishing
town of Escalanta now stands. Soon after her
arrival here she gave her heart and hand in
marriage to Peter Barker a worthy young man;
she was a faithful wife and mother ever working
for the comfort of her husband and children.
She was a member of the Relief Society in good
standing. She was the mother of eight children.
two of whom went before her to the spirit world.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She leaves a husband and six children and a host
of relatives and friends to mourn her loss. Peace-
ful be her repose.
	MARY T. WILCOX Cor. Sect.


