TEMPLE DEDICATION.

	THE General Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which
was held this year, commencing on Tuesday
the fourth of April, 1893, in the large
Tabernacle in this city at 10 o'clock a. m,
was one of the most important Conferences
ever held. President Wilford Woodruff
presided, which fact was very gratifying to
all who attended. People came from far
and near all over the country and from
various parts of the United States, Mexico
and Canada. President Woodruff's sermon
was very comforting, his kindly counsel
and tender manner of expressing himself
working a deep and lasting impression upon
all those who sat within the sound of his
voice.
	The two days of the Conference were
occupied by the Apostles and leading
authorities of the Church, much of the
teachings being in regard to the Temple
dedication and the preparations necessary
to enter in-to such a sacred and holy place.
	The dedication services commenced on
Thursday morning, April 6th, in the audi-
torium of the Salt Lake Temple forty years
from the day when the corner stone was
laid. The interest attached to this impor-
tant event has a greater and deeper sig-
nificance than appears from the outward
seeming.
	In fact no event of modern times is so
important, and fraught with such momen-
tous consequences to the world and its in-
habitants as the opening of this holy edifice
for the administration of ordinances that
pertain to the living and the dead, to the
past and the present, to the endowments
and covenants that unite families and kin-
dreds in bonds inseparable.
	By the Latter-day Saints great things are
anticipated in these places of worship, and
the revelations of heaven and ministration
of angels is a part of the expectation looked
forward to and firmly believed in.
	Therefore when the dedication of this
Temple, “the house of the Lord in the tops
of the mountains” actually transpired, it
did not seem strange that atthe same time
a tremendous wind should arise, con-
sidering that the Prince and power
of darkness is always opposed to the work
of the Lord. 
	The Bible and sacred records refer to the
Temples built in former days. Some of
them were of magnificent proportions and
beautiful, splendid and gorgeous even in
their appointments and surroundings. Solo-
man’s Temple is considered the most fin-

