JUAB STAKE.

    THE Quarterly Conference of Juab Stake
Relief Society was held at Nephi, March
19th, 1893. President Mary Pitchforth
presiding, after opening exercises, of sing-
ing and prayer, President Pitchforth address-
ed the conference, referred to the first
organizations in Nauvoo, fifty-one years
since, spoke of the circumstances of those
early days, felt thankful for these as-
sociations; spoke of  the circumstances of those
early days, felt thankful for these as-
sociations; spoke of the dedication of the
Temple, of the benefits and blessings
that we may derive therefrom, urged the
sisters to look into their hearts that there be
no feelings or obstacles in the way to pre-
vent them recieving a blessing.
    Sister Ann Wilhey represented the South
Ward of Nephi, the officers and teachers
were faithful and diligent in preforming
their duties, the poor, were well provided
for. Had a great desire to attend the dedica-
tion of the Temple.
    Counselors Amy L. Bigler expressed
thankfulness at being present, sickness pre-
venting her meeting with us for some time,
desired an interest in the prayers of the
society, that she may ever be faithful to the
cause, and do the will of her Heavenly
Father continually. Sister Rebecca Udall,
praised the energy and faithful labors of the
sisters of the North Ward of Nephi, her
faith in the Gospel had never faltered, desired
to be present at the dedication of the Tem-
ple of Temples.
    Counselors Hannah Jones, urged the
sisters to criticize their hearts that no wrong
feelings exist therein, bore a faithful testi-
mony to the religion we are engaged in.
    Sister Bessie Kendall and Sister Elizabeth
Miller rejoiced in the work, desired to live
firm and faithful.
    Mrs. Langley Bailey then read resolu-
tions of respect gotten up by the sisters of
the Juarez Relief Society, Mexico, in
memory of our beloved friend and Sister,
Matilda E. Teasdeal. 
    Bro. Charles Sperry felt that each as-
sociation were mutually interested together
for the same cause, desired those that
should go to the Temple to have their
lamps trimmed and burning, hoped none
that felt themselves unworthy would enter
that holy Temple, felt that the Spirit of
God was in our midst.
   Prest. Pitchforth spoke of the non repre-
sentations of the Juab, Levan and Eureka
branches, the unfavorable weather having
prevented their attendance, had recently
visited the branches,they were in a flourish-
ing condition, all seemed to enjoy the spirit
of their callings, felt to rejoice in the hum-
ble spirit of our meeting, prayed that the
Spirit of God might rest on all present.
    Bishop Warner felt that all who entered
the Temple would recieve a blessing there-
from, exhorted all to live up to their
priveleges. Sister Bessie Kendall was set
apart as first Counselor and Emma Cole as
second Counselor of the North Ward of
Nephi.
    The Spirit of God was poured out in
rich abundance upon the speakers and an
humble forgiving spirit prevailed with all
present. 
   Benediction vas pronounced by Patriarch
Udall. Conference adjourned for three
months.
			ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH.
				                Stake Sec. R. S.


