	HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD.
	
	IT seems preferable to use the appellation,
Mrs. John Brown, rather than Mrs. Mary
Brown, when, because of the husband's
prominence, explanations and misunder-
standings may be avoided.
	Not many decades ago it was woman's 
highest ambition to become a wife, and she
who had reached the age of thirty without
having attained this result became an ob-
ject of pity and reproach.  Many a girl has
given her hand in marriage, unaccompanied
by her heart, rather than incur the unpleas-
antness of advanced maidenhood.  To be
an "old maid," in that earlier day, was to
invite criticism and derision.  At one time
woman was a helpless creature dependent
upon the strength and chivalry of man.
She not only bestowed her hand and heart
upon her home-giver, but her very identity
was sacrificed upon the marriage altar.
There are many Hannah Janes who, like
the heroine of Locke's pathetic story,
learned too late that the "rubbing out" of
self brought unhappiness to the one they
hoped to benefit.  It was very appropriate
at that time, when woman was known only
as the wife of her husband, that her identity
become merged in his. Mrs. Dr. Jones
was never suspected of being a practicing
physician; she was only the wife of one.
	Higher education for woman, resulting in
a broader field of usefulness, is gradually
changing many long-established customs.
The wife now recognizes the fact that for
the security of home happiness she must
not only be the moral leader of husband
and sons, but intellectual companion as
well.  In the larger development of her
mental and physical powers she naturally
desires to set aside the props and shields of
former ages, and to bear the responsibility
of her opinions in her own name.
	I would advocate that woman retain her
maiden name through life, and at marriage
annex the name of her husband.  Why
should Mary Clark become lost to the
friends of her youth, except to the few who
are acquainted with the fact of her marriage
with James Howard, when Mary Clark
Howard would convey her girlhood’s iden-
tity as well as that of her married life?
