[Column 2]
a bill giving women school suffrage and 
making them eligible to membership on 
school boards. 
	APRIL, 1893, is a bright month for the 
friends of equal rights for women. Kansas, 
Illinois, Arkansas, Colorado, Ontario and
Nova Scotia!
	MRS. SUSAN S. FESSENDEN addressed 
the committee on woman suffrage of the 
Connecticut Legislature on April 12, in 
behalf of the pending woman suffrag
bills.
	BOTH houses of the Colorado Legislatu 
have voted in favor of a constitution 
amendment extending suffrage to women. 
Gov. Waite signed the bill April 7. 
	THE lower House of Nova Scotia has 
passed a bill giving full parliamentary suf-
frage to women. A bill of the same nature 
has passed the upper House in Ontario. 
The Arkansas Senate has passed a bill giv-
ing women school suffrage. 
	MRS. M. E. LEASE has been appointed 
by the Governor of Kansas, president of 
the State Board of Charities and the New 
Forum is our authority for stating that 
she has been ordained a minister in the Christian
Church.
	THERE was a large attendance at the
meeting of the Women's National Press 
Association, the evening of April 21. 
After some announcements made by the 
president relative to Woman's work at the 
World's Fair, Mrs. Gillen, of England, 
gave a short talk on the subject, "Every 
Man a Genius," which was interesting and 
suggestive. Mrs. Laura de Force Gordon's 
all around" talk was replete with thought, 
and clearly manifested the broad culture of 
the woman who spoke. 
	CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON, the
poet-authoress, was born in Claremont, N. 
H., lived in Florida during the years 
when she was best known to Americans, and has 
for some time lived in England, but grew 
up, developed and first became famous in 
Cleveland. Her mother was a niece of 
Fenimore Cooper, and the daughter received
his name along with a large share of his 
talent. Miss Woolson is forty-four years
old, and quite alone in the world since the 
death, in 1879, of her mother, to whom she 
was devoted. 
	TO attend the World's Fair one would find 
a pleasant stopping place on the west side 
away from the noise and confusion of the 
fair, yet with a railway station at hand so 
it would cost but little time and strength to 
reach the grounds. A lady known to the 
editor of the Tribune has taken a house to 
enable herself and sister to spend the season 
in Chicago and will have a few rooms to 
spare which she will rent at reasonable
rates—$30 per month, with opportunity to 
take meals if desired, in the house. The 
lady is especially anxious to have as her 
guests the progressive women of the day 
and this place will be especially desirable
for those who are planning to attend the 
Congresses. Address, W. W. care of 
Woman's Tribune, Washington, D. C.
	SENATOR INZER, of St. Clair, has offered 
in the Alabama Senate a joint resolution to 
submit to the voters a constitutional 
amendment authorizing the General as-
sembly to extend suffrage to women in 
municipal elections involving the sale of
liquor.
	WHOEVER else was disappointed in the


fall elections, there is one candidate who
is not. This is Miss Ella L. Knowles, the
pretty and plucky girl attorney general of
Montana. The People’s party nominated
her, and she did the rest. Miss Knowles
is a college graduate—a master of arts from
her alma mater, Bates college, Lewiston,
Me. She is a New Hampshire girl, and
studied law in that state first and afterward
in Helena, Mon.


