[Column 2]
the mountains I felt the same sensation,
and I am only one of thousands who have 
watched the rearing of those walls and
seemed to be a part of them, so much have
our thoughts dwelt upon and longed for
the day of completion.
	On the sixth of April, 1853, when the
corner stones were laid perhaps those dear
ones who took part in the services hoped
and believed to also take part in the dedi-
cation, but alas! how few are left, only three
of the apostles, one patriarch and one high
priest, some few of the choristers and 
musicians, can any of us of a later gene-
ration imagine the intense delight of them
at this time when they look back over
those forty years of temple building and 
now realize the consummation of their
hopes and prayers. The thought is beauti-
ful to me, it is almost heavenly, and I 
greatly enjoyed seeing the greeting of those
aged fathers and mothers within the blessed
walls, and marked the happiness in their
faces as they seemed to say, "it is finished,"
and as I watch them and think of them I 
feel to say God bless you and may you yet
live many years to enjoy that house your
labor and prayers and faith have built. How
well repaid the saints all feel when they
behold the elegance and grandeur of this
temple with its massive walls, its frescoed 
ceilings, its marbled and inlaid floors, its
elegantly wrought and carved founts and 
baths, its soft carpets, its dainty hangings, 
its art windows, its exquisite furnishings all
blending and combining making a Temple
perfect and complete beyond compare.

	MUSIC:—During the temple dedication
the people of Utah had a wonderful and 
beautiful revelation concerning the divine
art. Did any of us really know before the
talent of our musicians? From the morn-
ing of the first meeting, when the three
hundred trained voices, under the baton of
our admired Evan Stephens, peeled forth 
those beautiful anthems and hymns until
the close of the three weeks during which
not only the Salt Lake choir but also the 
choirs of Utah, Weber, Cache and Sanpete
Counties sang for us there was a continual
and delightful surprise. The capability of
the Utah choirs has long been known and 
commented upon and their renditions of
difficult music have been much admired,
not alone by our own people but by 
strangers who have visited us,and our choir
leaders have had many deserved compli-
ments but their fame as composers has not
been so widely known. Surely all who
listened to the divine and inspiring strains
during the conference will no longer doubt 
their ability to compose and will bestow
just praise on all. The words alone, so 
appropriate and sweet, the music tender yet
sublime and the most perfect rendition 
made a feast for the soul.
	There was not a little surprise afforded us,
when we learned that the beautiful words
of one of the anthems, was composed by 
Miss Domettie Smith, daughter of Prest.
Jos. F. Smith, a young woman so modest
of her talents that this is the first public
use she has made of them and what a 
glorious occasion it was; surely it was well
chosen.
	The concerts in the large tabernacle af-
forded much pleasure to our visitors as well
as ourselves. Being a people gathered
from all parts of the world it is very de-
lightful to listen now and then to the
national songs of our native lands,especially
when so enthusiastically sung by our little

[Column 3]
children. Our own dear song, “The Star-
spangle Banner," is always new,though we
heard it every hour and the heart beats a
response to every word like a martial ac-
companiment. If ever I lived in another
land and that land became my home I know
that the words and notes of that song would
bring the tears from my eyes,the sighs from
my heart, at the same time my soul would
throb with pride and joy at the thought of
that precious flag. Feeling all this I know
that others feel the same and it was a 
happy thought to have the national concerts
at this time for every Englishman loves
to listen to the strains of “Rule Brittania,”
the Irish weep at the thought of "The
Dear Little Shamrock,” the sturdy Scott is
ever proud of “Auld Lang Syne,” and so
do the Welsh, the Swede, the Dane and
Swiss, the German, the Italian and the
French love their native land and all that
calls forth sweet memories of it. Truly
asks the poet:
	Is there a man with soul so dead
	Who never to himself has said,
	This is my own, my native land.
	Of all the national airs the one most
widely known and sung in other countries,
not its own, is the song of France—"The
Marseillaise," and the history of this won-
derful hymn recently published in music
is so interesting that I shall glean the
principal points for the EXPONENT. 'On
the 20th, of April, 1792, France had de-
clared war on Austria and Prussia and a 
feeling of intense patriotism pervaded the
French empire. Four days later the may-
or of Strassburg gave a banquet and
among the guests was Claude Joseph
Rouget de Lisle, captain of engineers, a 
young man popular and some what noted as
an amateur poet and musician. The host 
asked the captain if he could not write a 
war song for the departing volunteers and 
Rouget de Lisle answered yes, and went 
home. That whole night he sat at his 
desk, and when the morning of April 25th
dawned the "Marseillaise" was finished.
It was the result of one night's work and 
he called it the war song of the army of the
Rhine. On that very day it was played by
a full orchestra on the market place in 
Strassburg, and the "Marseillaise" cele-
brated its first triumph. The northern
wing of the French army brought the song
with them to the seat of war and copies of
it were quickly scattered over the whole of
Alsace. In Paris it remained unknown for
some time. First it must pass through
Marseilles. In June, 1792, the council of
Marseilles had collected a number of volun-
teers who understood how to die and whose
moral worth was generally such as to
deserve death. These Marseilleans were
feasted by their fellow citizens on June 25.
A citizen by the name of Mireaux from
Montpelier, rendered Rouget de Lisle's
song, the enthusiasm it created was tre-
mendous and on the following day a leading 
journal of the city printed the song under 
the title, "The war song of the frontiers.'
	The soldiers of Marseilles who went to
Paris brought copies of the song with them
and sung it while entering Paris July 13th, 
and again in August while the Tuilleries
were stormed it was sung by the whole
populace. In Paris, where the history of 
the song was unknown, it was called 
'Hymn des Marseillaise;' this became its
final name. As 'La Marseillaise' it is not
alone the patriotic song of the French
Republic, but the song of liberty or rather
of revolution for the whole world. There


are various opinious about the origin of this
song and many believe it to have been
really of German origin, the latest researches
however would show it to have been taken
from an oratorio called Esther by Grison
and thus of French origin.”
	The Marseillaise is now a hundred years
old. It is sung in every land and grows in
popularity every year. It is one of those
things that can never die. 	
