				AMELIA E. BARR.

	I DO not know that I recognize any code
in this matter, because a  woman  who  has
given her name to the public while unmar-
ried cannot expect that public to  observe a
strict social code when she marries.   At the
same time, I like to have my  social letters,
and all home and domestic correspondence,
addressed to Mrs. Robert M.  Wilcox, as it
is to my husband that I owe my home, and
the social position of a respected and pro-
tected wife.
	I do not expect editors and publishers to
take this matter  into  consideration,  how-
ever, as it is my work, and not my  person-
ality, which has made  me  known to them.
I expect them to address  me  by the name
which has made me of interest to them as a
correspondent.
	But there is always a greater pleasure to
me in seeing a letter bearing my husband's
name than those  which come simply ad-
dressed to	ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


THE question seems to me a matter of
very simple solution.  Looking on it as
custom founded on reasons of propriety,
convenience and natural sentiment have al-
ready settled it.  A man marries a woman
to give her, upon her own consent, the
place and title of "Mistress" of all of
which he is "Master," his honor, his home
his family and his name.  The two become
one, and one name is therefore becoming
for the two.  Upon this theory of things
long established, the custom founds itself
and is perpetuated; the man's name is the
wife's name, as it is to be his children's,
and it is that by which, in all their joint
life and interest, domestic and social, they
are known and recognized as a pair.
Neither relinquishes individuality; each
has a personal name still.  Mary Brown is
not John Brown, of all that concerns them
together.  If he is Doctor Brown she is not
"Mistress Doctor," but still simply Mrs.
Brown.  This is also the case if he is
Reverend, Right Reverend or His Ex-
cellency.
	If Mrs. John Brown transacts business,
signs a deed, makes a will; if she keeps a
shop or a school, or is herself professional;
if she should become known as an artist,
musician, author—she does al these things
personally as Mary Brown; "Mrs." only
because of her married estate and surname;
and it is needful that her personal signature
shall be used and shall represent her. Mr.
John Brown is not herein responsible.
	I think a true wife will like best to be
known, to her life's end, by the name sh
would wish most of all to honor.  If she
become a widow she will prefer to keep it,
as in memory and faith; only waiving it,
perhaps, when a son's wife comes to bear,
in her turn, the very same.  Then the
elder wife and mother may retire, in a
modest dignity, upon her own personality.
It used to be a beautiful courtesy, in such
cases, for the world outside to distinguish
her as "Madam" Brown.
