MARY E. ERICKSEN.

	ONCE more we are called upon to record the
death of one of our young ladies, who died Nov.
24, 1892, Mary E. Ericksen. She was born at
Round Valley, Morgan County, September 16,
1874, and was at the time of her death eighteen
years two months and eight days old.
Desceased was a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints and a teacher in the
Sunday School, she was the daughter of Michael
and Mary E. Ericksen; her death caused a cloud
of gloom to come over us; and at the Sunday
School resolutions of respect were adopted.
	Resolutions in memory of Mary E. Ericksen
who departed this life Nov. 24, 1892:
	Whereas, an Allwise Providence has in his wis-
dom and in a sudden and unexpected manner taken
from our midst by death our beloved sister and
col-aborer Miss Ericksen, and
	Whereas: we the members of the Willard
Sabbath school, while humbly submitting to the
will of Heaven feel it a duty to express our ap-
preciation of her labors and our sorrow at her
seemingly untimely death.
	Resolved I. that the faithfulness and energy
manifested by her in her labors in the Sunday
School, Y. L. M. I. A. Choir, and the Ward be
held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved II that in her death this Sunday
School has been deprived of one of its faithful
teachers and the Ward of one of its promising.
members.
	Resolved III. that we share the heavy burden
of sorrow which weighs upon her relatives, and
extend to them our heartfelt sympathy in the sad
bereavement.
	Resolved IV. that these resolutions be kept in
the record of the Sunday School and that copies
be sent to her parents and to the county papers
for publication Jas J. Chandler, Ellen Ward and
Jane Hubbard, Committee.

		"We miss thee from our home dear,
			We miss thee from thy place,
		A shadow o’er our life is cast,
			We miss the sunshine of thy face.
		We miss thy kind and willing hand,
			Thy fond and earnest care,
		Our home is dark without thee
			We miss thee everywhere.

		Peaceful be thy silent slumber,
			Peaceful in thy grave so low,
		Thou no more will join our number, 
			Thou no more our sorrows know, 
		Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When the day of life is fled;
		And in Heaven with joy to greet thee. 
			Where no farewell tears are shed.”
										M.


