U. W. P. CLUB.

	A MEETING of the U. W. P. C. con-
vened in the new EXPONENT parlor April
29th, 1893, with a goodly number of the
members in attendence. Mrs. E. B. Wells
presided, and Mrs. Lucy Clark offered
prayer.
	The minutes of the March meeting were
read and the roll call was responded to by
choice sentiments or verses.
	Miss N. V. Davis gave an interesting
and instructive lecture on the different
kinds of verses, lucidly explaining the
construction of the different stanzas, and
aptly illustrating the same.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze read an original
article, entitled, “What is Religion,”
written in the lady’s usual able manner.
Gladys Woodmansee sang a song, which


was followed by an interesting and humor-
ous verbal description of Samoan women
and their customs, given by Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze. Miss Mamie Freeze favored
the club with some very fine instrumental
music, which was much appreciated. The
President spoke regarding the U. W. P. C.
becoming associated with the Territorial
Federation of Clubs, read the constitution
of and a communication from the Federa-
tion, and explained some of the benefits to
be derived from the connection. It was
moved and seconded that we join the
Federation. Remarks were called for, and
the members expressed themselves as
being in favor of the connection, the
motion was carried.
	Article second of the By Laws was moved
by motion, and Mrs Lizzie Wilcox, Mrs.
Ida Haag, and Miss Mamie Conrad were
voted in as members of the U. W. P. C.
In connection with the Prest. Miss May
Preston was voted to act as delegate for the
club, at the convention to be held in
Chicago during the World’s Fair.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of her expected
absence at the time of our next meeting,
but hoped we would carry on the meeting
as usual. Miss Pearl Russell kindly
favored the club with a vocal selection, and
benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Phebe
C. Young.
	Program for next meeting: Article on
the Sixth Sense, Mrs. L. G. Richards;
recitation, Miss N. V. Davis; music Mrs.
Maggie Bassett.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Secretary.


