U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE monthly meeting of the U. W. P.
Club convened at the EXPONENT parlor
March 22nd 1893. Prest. E. B. Wells in
the chair. Prayer was offered by Lydia D.
Alder. Roll call responded to with senti-
ments from the writings of Longfellow.
Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved. The programme was carried
out as follows. A song by Miss Pearl
Russell. Nevada V. Davis recited in a
pleasing manner, selections from favorite
American authors, Ruth M. Fox recited
an original poem entitled “My Fortieth
Year.” Interesting article on “Ignorance
and Superstition” by Phebe C. Young,
Miss Maude Pratt favored the company
with two songs the music was very much
enjoyed. The meeting was then thrown
open for members to discuss business and
express their ideas. N. V. Davis thought
the good things we had, should not be
kept to ourselves, but should be imparted
to others, our knowledge was given to
us to hold in trust. When we read
good books and get new ideas,
others should be benefitted by them.
	Mary A. Freeze related some interesting
incidents in the experience of her son-in-
law who had just returned from Samoa;
described tropical fruits and palms, Prest.
Wells said the idea of imparting what we
knew to others was a correct principle, and
one in which she firmly believed, thought
the sixth was the spiritual sense. The
subject was discussed by members, Lucy
Clark recited some verses in connection with
the subject. N. V. Davis reported what the
committee had done in reference to the
badge presented two designs to select from,
one with a Bee, and one with a Greek
Lamp, it was decided to have a gold pin


with a Greek Lamp, with U. W. P. C. in
raised letters.
	The program for April 30th was read.
Different styles of verses, N. V. Davis.
Original article or poem, Lillie T. Freeze.
Article on Woman, Ella W. Hyde. Song
and music, Gladys Woodmansee. Sketches
of Samoan Women, Mary A. Freeze.
Article on the sixth sense, L. G. Richards.
Music Mamie Freeze. Lydia D. Alder was
voted a member of the club. Benediction
was pronounced by N. V. Davis. Refresh-
ments were then served, and the usual
pleasant chat followed.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. Pro Tem.


