WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MISCELLANEOUS.
	NO wound can be so deep as the one
inflicted by a friend.
	BETTER three hours too soon than one
minute too late.—Shakspeare
	THE supreme fall of falls is this—the
doubt of one’s self.—Countess de Gasparin.
	It is our own vanity that makes the van-
ity of others intolerable to us.—Rochefou-
cauld.
	SLANDERS are like flies that pass over a
man’s good parts to light upon his sores.—
Rule of Life.
	THE love that has no form of expression
may be very deep and true, but it is practi-
cally useless.
	A WOMAN'S sympathy, instead of scorn,
should go out to one of her own sex who
has gone wrong. 
	IT will be an ill day when we are so en-
gaged in seeking lost sheep that we forget
the lambs.—Spurgeon.
	I SUPPOSE it’s a bit hard to think any-
thing’s over and gone in our lives; and
there’s a parting at the root of all our joy.—
George Eliot.
	INVIOLABLE fidelity, good humor, and
complacency of temper outlive all the
charms of a fine face and make the decays
of it invisible.—Tatler.
	CHARITY is a principle of prevailing love
to God and good will to men which effectu-
ally inclines one endued with it to glorify
God and to do good to others.—Gruden.
	SINCERITY is to speak as we think, be-
lieve as we pretend, act as we profess, per-
form as we promise, and really be what we
would seem and appear to be.—Rule of
Life.
	CHILDREN have always a sympathy in
the agitations of those connected with them;
always, especially, a sense of any trouble or
impending revolution, of whatever kind, in
domestic circumstances.—Hawthorne.
	THE noblest contribution which any man
can make for the benefit of posterity is that
of a good character; the richest bequest
which any man can leave to the youth of
his native land is that of a shining, spotless
reputation.
	ONE of the easiest things in the world is
to find fault, and in no place are there so
many opportunities for doing so as in the
home. There are so many little things
occuring daily in any good-sized family;
such as misplacing a garment, leaving a
door ajar, and a thousand and one trivial
things that readily provoke the fault-finder.
	Few people would be willing to answer
“present” to the roll call of fault-finders.
Indeed, so insidious is the ugly fault when
once formed that it blinds its victim to the

