OBITUARY.

	DIED at Mill Creek Ward, April 11th, 1893,
Ann, wife of Patriarch Washington Lemmon,
daughter of John and Hannah Cook, born Dec.
29th, 1819, in Newthorpe, Nottinghamshire, Eng-
land. Emigrated to Utah in 1853. Resided in
Salt Lake City till the year 1860 then removed to
Mill Creek Ward where she resided until her
death.
	In Aug. 1877, she was chosen Counselor in the
R. S., June 24th, 1880. When the Primary As-
sociation was first organized in the ward, she was
elected President of the first District, the first
position she held until her demise, from the latter
by her request, she was honorably released May,
1890, on account of failing health, in each of
these positions, she was faithful in the perform-
ance of her duties.
	Sister Lemmon was very much interested in
Primary work, the children loved her and felt
grieved when she resigned.
	The Relief Society will feel the loss of this dear
friend,her counsel was ever fraught with wisdom
and encouragement, many times she has said,
there was nothing outside of Mormonism that


was of any interest to her, for therein was con-
tained everything that was pure and noble and
calculated to exaet the human family. At the
meeting held in March she was in her accustomed
place, but when the ladies met in April one month
later, and was informed that she had died that
morning, the deepest sympathy was felt by all
present.
	She embraced all the principles of the Gospel
as far as they were revealed to her, truly she
could say, I have finished the work Thou did’st set
me to do.
	Funeral services were held at the family resi-
dence, there was a large attendance of relatives
and friends to take part in the last sad rites of
the dear departed one.
	The remarks of those who spoke were very
consoling to the bereaved family.
	The remains were laid to rest in the ward
cemetery there to await the resurrection of the
just.
	The members of the Relief Society extend
their heart felt sympathy to relatives and friends.
There is consolation beyond the grave, the promise
of eternal life to those who love and serve the
Lord and obey His commandments.
								COUN.


