[Column 2]
quarters at the Chicago Fair will be located
in the Woman's Building within the Fair
grounds. Here, from May to November,
some one of a numerous committee will be
found in daily attendance, to receive visitors,
answer questions, distribute literature, and
arrange for subscription to native and
foreign suffrage periodicals. But all meet-
ings of a public character will be held in the
new Art Institute not within the Fair
grounds, but on Adams St. and Michigan
Ave. near the center of the city; admission
to all Congresses, Conferences etc., being
free.
	Public representation for the work of
Suffrage Associations will be given in two
of the series of Congresses which are to be
conducted in the Art Institute, the first
being the "World's Congress of Representa-
tive Women," assembled from May 15th, to
22nd, the second being the "Governmental
Congress" which will convene during a
week in August.
	On the main Program of each of these
two Congresses, Woman Suffrage appears
simply as one phase of the world's interests,
briefly set forth by its representatives, but
in one of the Department Halls of the Art
Institute on one day during each Congress,
a special program will be presented giving
the subject to the public with greater detail.
Thus in May on the main program of the
World's Congress of Representative women,
Elizabeth Cady Stanton will speak on the
subject of the "Civil and Social Evolution
of Women," and in another session, Susan
B. Anthony will address the audience on
"Organization Among Women Considered
in Respect to Civil Liberty," while an of-
ficially appointed representative of the
National-American Suffrage Association,
Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, will participate
in the discussion following.
	But in the Suffrage Department Congress,
to be held for one day in a Hall of the Art
Institute simultaneously with the World's
Congress of Representative Women, the en-
tire program will be filled by woman suf-
fragists, the officers of Suffrage Associations
presiding. The following speakers have
been invited to speak on appointed topics:
Lady Henry Somerset on "Woman's Grow-
ing Sense of Responsibility towards her
Country," the Countess of Aberdeen on
"Domestic Legislation," Mrs. Cobden Un-
win on "Woman's Legitimate and Illegiti-
mate Influence on Politics," Lucy Stone on
a theme of her own selection, Clara Bewick
Colby on "Wyoming," Helen H. Gardner
on "Woman as an Annex," Laura M. Johns
on "Woman and the Municipality,"
	Carrie Lane Chapman on the "Evolution
of Woman Suffrage,,' Mademoiselle Marie
Popelin, of Brussells, on the "Struggle of
Professional Women in Belgium," Mrs. F.
Fenwick Miller on the "Woman as a
Factor in the Future of Government."
Sessions, morning and evening, being ar-
ranged for the representation of this pro-
gram.
	Prominent speakers have also been in-
vited for the Governmental Congress in
August, full particulars of which will be
published as the time approaches.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Ch. Columbian Exposition Committee
for the N. A. W. S. A.


THE Illinois Senate, on April 6, passed
the bill giving township suffrage to women,
by a vote of 27 to 10.


