W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly Rooms, April 18th,
1893. Pres. Nellie C. Taylor ln the chair.
Opened by singing, “New America.’’
Prayer by Vice Pres. Elizabeth M. Price,
Singing, “Help the Working Women.’’
Roll called and minutes of previous meeting
read, amended and accepted.
	Vice Pres. Elizabeth M. Price suggested
that each one express her ideas; she won-
dered if something could not be thought of
to make the meetings more interesting, and
draw people out. Spoke of visiting people
at their houses, found they did not under-
stand these subjects, thought if they were
explained, more interest would be taken.
Spoke upon the law of consent. Mary P.
Silver gave her experience in visiting peo-
ple, not very satisfactory. Susanna Water-
fall thought women could do a great deal
of good, asked the Lord to prosper this
understanding. Mary A. Irvine said she
was heart and soul in suffrage, wished more
would attend the meetings, thought people
had wrong ideas concerning it, if women
could vote we would not have so many
dens of infamy.
	Julia Druce like the rest was a true suf-
fragist, did all she could to help the cause in
talking with others, thought we should
gain each other’s confidence, and should
ntroduce these subjects in other meetings
and sociables. May Talmage was interes-
ted in suffiage, she had also visited around
soliciting names, thought the greatest point
to be gained was to get people to under-
stand what suffrage was, hoped we would
get the interest revived. Had always en-
joyed the meetings, they were for our own
benefit, thought the more we came the
more we would want to.u
	Ella W. Hyde thought if we were united
in trying to create an interest in the meet-


ings we could make them a success. We
should each try to bring a new member.
	Pres. Nellie C. Taylor said that woman
was her own enemy in speaking against suf-
frage, they did not understand it, we do
not want to hold the reins but we should be
true to each other and uphold women and
seek to elevate man kind, thought it a good
dea for each one to bring a new member.
Meeting stood adjourned until the third
Tuesday in May.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. pro. tem.


