EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE readers of our little paper will
doubtless be glad to know that a volume
has been prepared for the exhibit in the
Utah Building at the World’s Fair in
Chicago together with the books by Utah
women. It contains one copy of each vol-
ume for twenty years and all the copies of
Vol. 21, except April 1st, which was not
ready when the book was bound. It is
handsomely bound in red morocco with the
name in gold letters on the outside, and
will speak better than mere words for the
women of the Territory.
	THE Committee in silk called by Mrs.
Salisbury just before leaving Utah for the
World’s Fair are doing excellent work.
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, the Secretary of
the Committee, has been both North and
South and devoted much time and been
very energetic to look up cocoons, and a
variety of articles as well as reeled and
spun silk etc. The exhibit of silk is likely
to be very good and quite elaborate from
present indications. Mrs. C. W. Burnett
the Chairman, is deeply interested in mak-
ing the affair a success.
	The ladies of the Salt Lake County As-
sociation really deserve credit for what they
have accomplished towards the Columbian
Exposition! The several World’s Fair
Clubs in the county have done very well
indeed and deserve great praise for their
efforts, and the Chairmen of Committees
who have had special work entrusted to
them have not only been diligent in collect-
ing and looking after the specimens of work,
but have done much at their own expense.
The means used has been from member-
ships to the Association and from lunches'
given by the ladies’ and their proportion,
from the proceeds of the Columbian ball.
Some of the work has been very expensive
but the management has been judicious, as
will be seen when the accounts are' all
handed in. The ladies have worked to-
gether in the Board and in Committees in
harmony, and have really become much
endeared to each other through the pleasant
association.
	The books by women include nine by
Sister Eliza R. Snow, three by Sister Han-
nah T. King, three by Augusta J. Crocheron,
others are Mary J. Tanner, Reba B. Pratt,
Cornelia Paddock, Jennie B. Frasieth, Mrs.
W. S. McCornick, translations from the
German, Mrs. Mary E. Almy, Emily B.
Spencer, Hannah Cornaby, and other Utah
women. Another edition of Sarah E.
Carmichael’s book of poems is to be issued
by the Ladies’ Literary Club of this City
and will be placed in the Utah Building.
	Songs and flowers of the Wasatch, the
book of poems mentioned in the paper be-
fore will soon be completed it is beautifully .
llustrated in water colors by Edna Wells
Sloan, and will be dedicated to Mrs.
Margaret Blaine Salisbury. The very
large book of photographs of Utah
architecture prepared by a committee of
ladies contains views of the oldest and
newest residences with many public build-
ings, some of the oldest and
newest residences with many public build-
ings, some of the oldest style and others
more modern—a large picture of the Salt
Lake City Temple. The book is very large and
weighs fifty pounds. Mrs. Rhoda B. Lip-,
man and Mrs. Lizzie K. Crismon worked
very diligently in this Committee, and they
are justly entitled to praise from those in-
terested in the Utah exhibit


