	SAYS OF LONG DRESSES.

	Our landlady's daughter is a young lady
of some pretentions to gentility. She wears
her bonnet well back upon her head which
is known by all as a mark of high breeding.
She wears her trains very long, as the great
ladies do in Europe. To be sure their
dresses are so made only to sweep the tap-
estried floors of chateaux and palaces; and
those odious aristocrats of the other side do
not go dragging through the mud in silks
and satins, but forsooth, must ride in coach-
es when they are in full dress. It is true
that, considering the various habits of the
American people, also the little accidents
which the best kept sidewalks are liable to
a lady who has swept a mile of them is not
exactly in such a condition that one would
care to be her neighbor. But confound the
make believe women we have turned loose
in our streets! Where do they come from!
Not out of Boston parlors, I trust. Why
there isn't a beast or a bird that would drag
its tail through the dirt in the way these
creatures do their dresses. Because a queen
or a duchess wears long robes on grand oc-
casions, a maid of all work or a factory girl
thinks she must make herself a nuisance by
trailing about with her—pah! that's what I
call getting vulgarity into your bones and
marrow. Making believe what you are not
is the essence of vulgarity. Show over dirt
is one attribute of vulgar people. If any
man can walk behind these women and see
what they rake up as they go, and not feel
squeamish, he has got a tough stomach. I
would not let one of them into my room
without serving them as David served Saul
at the cave in the wilderness—cut off his
skirts. Don't tell me that a true lady ever
sacrifices the duty of keeping all about her
sweet and clean to the wish of making a
vulgar show. I won't believe it of a lady.
There are some things that no fashion has a
right to touch, and cleanliness is one of
those things. If a woman wishes to show
that her husband or father has money, which
she wants and means to spend, but doesn't
know how, let her buy a yard or two of silk
and pin it to her dress when she goes out to
walk, but let her unpin it before she goes
into the house.


