WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
MORTAL AND IMMORTAL ELEMENTS
		OF THE HUMAN BODY.
A PHILOSOPHICAL OBJECTION TO THE RES- 
		URRECTION, REMOVED
		BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.
[This article was published in No. 13, vol.
2 of the EXPONENT, but as it has been so
often called for we have decided to repub-
lish it. Both strangers and saints have
been much interested in the explanations
made in it concerning the future disposal of
the elements composing the material body.]
	The subject of the resurrection of the
dead, although of inexpressible interest to
all of the human family, is very little un-
derstood by man in the flesh, and will not
be explained until he who holds the keys
pertaining to it for this dispensation, shall
develop its principles.
	Although we cannot penetrate the cloud
of obscurity which envelops this subject;
knowing, as we do, that death is certain, it
is natural that we should enquire in the
depths of our souls, What and where is our
future? Who, that does not altogether ig-
nore the idea of a resurrection of the body,
but experiences at times, a bewilderment of
thought concerning it.
	Realizing that, in accordance with estab-
lished laws of nature, the substances which
now compose these bodies of ours, will, af-
ter death, become identified parts of innu-
merable other human bodies, also be incor-
porated into the bodies of beasts, insects,
fowls &c. and through them bequeathed to
others; the question naturally arises, 'How
can they be again restored to us? And, if
restored to us, from what source will the
deficiency be supplied to other bodies?'
	This is a problem which neither the rules
of science nor the wisdom of man, unaided
by revelation, can solve—a problem which
infieity very plausibly applies as a settled
refutation to the doctrine of the resurrec-
tion—one in which the worldly wise phi-
losopher finds a palpable inconsistency, and
one which in the face of sound reason
amonts to the impossibility of a re-organ-
ization of a human body: for what reflecting
mind does not see that the laws of nature
which apply to the decomposition of the
elements which constitute the living body,
preclude a possibility of the same material
being restored, at one and the same time, to
all bodies of which it has comprised compo-
nent parts in millions of instances, at differ-
ent times; and, believing God to be a con-
sistent Being, and acting in accordance with
eternal, unchanging laws, and admitting
that these laws are harmonious—that the
higher operate in consonance with, and are
never antagonistic to those of a lower order,
it is a matter of surprise that thinking peo-
ple of a highly intelligent class, in many
instances, yield to infidelity and adopt the
humiliating conclusion that the resurrection
is only a phantom of the brain: while oth-
ers, with little or no reflection, content
themselves by admitting that, "with God
all things are possible," without questioning
in what manner, or by what means the re-
sult will be effected.
	His communications to, and the dealings
of God with man, so far as they are made
known to us, are characterized as those of
an intelligent Being conversing and dealing
with intelligent beings of the same order,
but in a vastly lower state of development.
	In His works, order is every where strik-
ingly apparent, and we find law, or rather
codes of law regulating and governing, not
[Column 2]
only every department of life, but also every
grade and variety of matter. From the
smallest speck that glitters and dances in
the bright sunshine, to the glowing galaxy
above us, representing system on system of
worlds in the mighty distance, order is
everywhere manifest. Each department,
whether of life or inanimate matter, is gov-
erned by laws particularly adapted to the
peculiarities of its own identity, and in reg-
ular gradation from the smallest atom and
the most diminutive animalcule to the high-
est intelligence above and all, whether as-
signed to different localities or interming-
ling in countless varieties—all operating in
harmony and not interfering with, or tres-
passing on each other.
	Just so far as those laws are developed to
our understandings we pronounce them nat-
ural principles; and what, with us consti-
tute a miracle, is nothing more nor less
than our ignorance of the process of law by
which the result is produced: for instance,
when our Savior in Cana of Galilee, chang-
ed water into wine, it is evident that he
manufactured the wine through the agency
of chemical laws of a higher order than
those taught in the schools, hence the peo-
ple were filled with astonishment, for to
them, the performance was a miracle, they
probably being as ignorant of the laws
through which the result was obtained, as
we now are concerning the resurrection of
the dead. 
	In relation to the objections urged against
the re-organizing of the human body, we
are in possession of a very important and
beautiful principle which pours a flood of
light into the mind—obviates a heretofore
insurmountable difficulty, and disarms infi-
delity of its strongest plea against the res-
urrection, and puts impossibility to silence.
	By this we are instructed that the resur-
rection of the body is independent of all
gross, divisable and transferable matter,
and this removes every rational objection
against the reunion of body and spirit,
based on the incontrovertible laws of nature
pertaining to the decomposition of the
body, and the subsequent transformations
and reproductions of the material of which
it was composed. These are substances
borrowed for this probationary use—to sub-
serve the necessities of this mortal exist-
ence—to render us tangible to gross tangi-
bility, and for which, after death, our bod-
ies will have no further use.
	As soon as the spirit leaves the body, and
frequently before nature's great work of de-
composition commences, and continues un-
til every particle of gross, volatile matter
is disengaged and by natural laws of affinity
passes into other forms, combining with oth-
er substances through an infinitude of
changes; and co-operating in an endless va-
riety of reproductions: as, for instance, the
grass that grows over the grave incorporates
a portion of the gross substance escaping
from the decaying body beneath: the cow,
the sheep and the goose devour the grass
which, through the natural laws of nourish-
ment produces flesh—people eat the flesh of
the cow, sheep, and goose, and thus we may
trace the same identical matter, perhaps
divided and sub-divided into infinitesimal
particles and passing into every form of hu-
man, brutal, insect vegetable and atmo-
pheric existence—going onward from gen-
eration to generation.
	But thanks to God for the key which
solves the mystery. Every organized human
body, independent of the spirit, (which is a
separate organization) is composed of two
distinct grades or classes of matter, and in
such natural combination as to serve the
purposes of this lower existence. One is
[Column 3]
gross, volatile—subject to change and decay
through a precarious union of earth, air, fire
and water—tangible to mortal sight and
touch, and subject to all the laws of decom-
position. The other is pure, invisible, in-
tangible and capable of resisting every law
of infraction or dissolubility. This, when
the spirit leaves the body, remains INTACT—
never being incorporated with other bodies
or substances. This is the precious material
that will be resurrected in perfect form, and
compose the immortal tabernacle of the im-
mortal spirit.
	It is well understood that resurrected be-
ings are invisible to these gross organs of
sight except when they are quickened by
immortal vision, that if the dead were
brought forth within viewing distance of us
we should not see them. Why not? The
resurrected body being composed of this
pure material can only be seen by organs of
sight formed by the same pure matter, un-
clogged with gross substances. 
	While the gross portion is disorganizing
and reorganizing, being perpetually chang-
ing and in motion—while the disembodied
spirit is associating in the worlds above; the
pure substance, the precious germ of an
immortal tabernacle, the jewel's casket,
quietly sleeps in the bosom of mother Earth,
awaiting an eternal mandate, which, in ac-
cordance with the higher code, the celes-
tial law, shall reunite with the joyous spirit
filled with eternal intelligence, no more to
be separated.
	The Earth also, combines in its present
organization, both of the above mentioned
classes of elements; and, as well as man, will
yet experience a process of purfication be-
fore it can become the habitation and ever-
lasting inheritance of resurrected, immor-
tal, embodied intelligences. "The elements
shall melt with fervent heat." After hav-
ing passed the purifying ordeal, of fire, and
having been cleansed from all combustible
and volatile properties, the earth will pass
from its present orbit, to the position among
the creations of God from which it has fall-
en in consequence of man's transgression;
and then will that prediction of our Savior
be fully realized—"The meek shall inherit
the earth."


