		RETRENCHMENT.

	As I am no speaker I feel impressed to put
a few of my thoughts on paper, taking re-
trenchment for my subject. The word re-
trenchment has a greater meaning than
many of us realize. It embraces all that is
Godly and all that is necessary for the sal-
vation and perfection of the daughters of
Zion. Pres. Young says the retrenchment
girls can do, what he cannot do; this is say-
ing a great deal, and I think we should be
encouraged to accomplish what is required
at our hands. There is a great responsibil-
ity rests upon our shoulders. Who are the
ones to carry out the purposes of the Al-
mighty? Is it those who follow the fash-
ions of Babylon and who have not the spir-
it of God in their hearts? No, it is the re-
trenchment girls who are now scorned by
those who do not know and understand our
aims, nor what we are striving to do; but
let us not be discouraged for we know we
are carrying out the requirements of hea-
ven. God and His holy angels are on our
side and we have no need to fear. We
should be proud that we have the privilege
given us to take part in so great a work.
	Let us not be ashamed of our religion in
whatsoever circumstances we may be
placed. If we are thrown in the com-
pany of outsiders, let us set an example
worthy of imitation, standing firm and
unshaken in the cause of truth, that
they who fight against it may be put to
shame. Let our motto be "The kingdom
of God or nothing."
	We have a wide field before us, and no
time to spare or spend foolishly; I think the
time is nigh at hand, when each one will
have to know for themselves that this is the
work of God or they will be liable to fall by
the wayside. Do not get weary in well do-
ing, for we have great things to live for,
there is a prize at the end of the race.
	I would urge my younger sisters to attend
strictly to their secret prayers, it is the
greatest source of comfort that we can
have, also a safeguard against many, I
might say every evil. If we go to the
Lord and ask a favor of Him in faith and
wisdom we are sure to receive the desired
blessing. Let us not speak lightly of any
of the principles of our religion. Retrench
ment teaches us to uphold all things that
come from God, and gives us wisdom to
judge between good and evil. Let us show
by our acts that we are saints in word
thought and action. We will be looked to
for example by those whose minds are dark
as midnight, who have not oil in their
lamps nor the spirit of God in their hearts.
Retrenchment girls have every advantage
that is necessary to make them pure and
noble women. We have set our mark high,
and let us not cease our exertions until we
have attained it.
				MISS JOSEPHINE MYER.
	11th Ward, S. L. City.


SISTER Smith a colored woman has gained
notoriety as a star of camp meetings. She
is described as a tall, erect, elegant figure,
and dresses plainly and simply, wearing no
jewelry. Her speech is very correct; she is
choice in her words, particular about pro-
nunciation, in her gestures graceful, with a
soft pleasing voice; she seems to have a
good idea of human nature, and in her anal-
ysis of it equals, it is said, "Dickins or Elli-
ot." She is a natural orator and herself and
her speeches as well as her manners are at-
tractive.


