		HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. M. E. Churchill from San Francisco,
gave us a call on Wednesday, August 15th. She
is here for a short time to write a chapter on
Salt Lake, in a new book she is about to pub-
lish; and also to canvass for her last work "Lit-
tle Sheaves.”
	THE DESERET University opened its regular
session Monday, Aug. 23rd. Prof. J. R. Park
President of the Institution, F. M. Bishop Pro-
fessor of sciences, Prof. K. G. Maeser theory and
practice of teaching, Joseph Toronto assistant
in mathematics. Incorporated with this in-
stitution is the teachers Normal School, Supt.
O. H. Riggs having charge of this department.
	ELDER ALBERT Carrington, wife and son
left home Aug. 25th, for England, where Elder
Carrington is to preside, relieving Elder Joseph
F. Smith who will return home this fall. It is
expected Elder Smith will sail from Liverpool
with a company of saints Sept. 15th. We most

[Column 2]
heartily wish Elder Carrington and family a
safe and pleasant journey to their destination.
	MONDAY, Aug. 30th, Miss M. E. Cook will
re-open her Graded School in the Social Hall.
This lady has just returned from a short visit
to the Eastern states, bringing with her, her
mother and little nephew. We welcome Mrs.
Cook to our mountain home, hoping that
she may find the climate congenial to her deli-
cate health, and advantages sufficient to induce
her to make Salt Lake her future home.
	WE WERE favored with a call recently, from
Dr. Mary E, Walker of Washington, the lady
whose peculiar style of dress has attracted so
much attention. She was accompanied by
Mrs. Gen. C. A. Van Cort, one of the Vice
Presidents and a member of the Executive
Committee of the Female Medical College,
New York City. Both these ladies express great
interest in "Woman's Work," and are devoting
their lives and faculties to the improvement of
the condition of woman according to their ideas
of progression. Dr. Walker, while here, de-
livered a lecture on "Cairo and the Pyramids."
She is pleasing in her address, and as modest
in manner as ladies who dress "a la mode."
	THE SILK culture is receiving special atten-
tion, and it has been positively demonstrated
that it may be made a success, if proper atten-
tion is given to its management. Mrs. Dr.
Dunyon has clearly illustrated this by example;
and in various parts of the Territory there have
been similar results. The next meeting of
those interested in this very important branch
of HOME INDUSTRIES will be held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Zina D. Young, three blocks
south of the Eagle Gate, on Wednesday, Sept.
1st, at 5 o'clock p.m.; all who wish to obtain
information in regard to silk worms, mulberry
trees, etc., are invited to attend.
	We have on hand several articles we are un-
able to publish on account of space. One from
Richfield, "Honor to the Memory of Pres.
Joseph A. Young," by Mrs. F. Anderson, Pip-
sey Papers by Mary, "Token of Respect" A Poem
by A. S. Armstrong, Extracts from a discourse
delivered by Elder J. F. Wells, Thirteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Aug. 19th, reported
by W. East. From the Seventeenth Ward a
Tribute of respect and a poem dedicated to
Mrs. E. A. Felt and read before the Semi-An-
nual Meeting by Mrs. G. A. Alder. Another
from the Seventeenth Ward, a farewell to Mrs.
R. M. Carrington, in the form of a surprise
party and pleasant re-union, and a very pretty
poem, appropriate to the occasion, by Mrs. G.
A. Alder.
	THE EDUCATIONAL Excursion  to Lake
Point, Aug. 13th, was a most delightful affair
until about 4 o'clock, while out upon the Lake,
the "Prince and Power of the air," perhaps
thinking we all were too happy, blew up a terri-
ble gale, which gave some of the party a new
experience of sailing on the water. From the
extreme heights of gaiety on deck, etc., the
company were removed to the depths of sorrow
and the lower story of the boat. However, all
came safely to land, and three hearty cheers
were given to Captain Douris at the landing for
the efficient manner in which he managed the
boat during the storm. Altogether the party
was a success and will be remembered as afford-
ing many pleasing remniscences of the day.


SARAH A. Hobart, of Freeport Maine,
has given to the American Colonization So-
ciety $5,000, and $2,000 each to the Board
of Foreign Missions, Tract Society,  Home
Missionary Society, and Bible Society, all
Ameaican institutions.


For the EXPONENT.
