WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE KINDERGARTEN—UTILIZING
			PLAY.

	The desideratum with intelligent and
thoughtful trainers of these active little
folk—it being the main point, that they
are always doing something—is to make
what they do tell to advantage in their un-
folding ; to educate them not so much
by books and homilies as by practical illus-
tration and example adapted to their un-
derstanding and always nicely graduated to
that. "A child at play is histrionic. He
personates characters with costume and
mimic gesture. He also undertakes to rep-
resent whatever thing interests his mind by
embodiment of it in outward form." But
child's play does not end in itself, and Froe-
bel has taken full advantage of this under-
lying fact of childish being. Children, as
we all notice, delight in movement; they ob-
serve keenly; they also invent and construct
—all this naturally and spontaneously. The
child that does not love play is not, cannot
be a healthy child. But the "plays" of
Froebel's Kindergarten are with profound
philosophy systematized and possess a far
deeper significance than to while away the
time.
	The location of the Kindergarten should
be carefully selected, should be as little pub-
lic as possible, the building so constructed
and arranged as to meet the requirements
of health, freedom and comfort, in order
that the children may have undisturbed en-
joyment of their own little world. The
hall itself must be light and airy, spacious
enough to afford room for marching, danc-
ing and plays, especially in rainy and in-
clement seasons. There should also be
a large and shady yard or garden for
frequent out-door exercises. It is very
desirable that the hall, besides its necessary
furniture of large, low tables and benches,
blackboards, charts, etc., should be adorned
with flowers and pictures, rendered attrac-
tive in every way and calculated to call forth
and minister to the growing taste and sense
of beauty in the child. The hall, with its
appurtenances, should always be kept in
proper condition—so far as practicable by
the little ones themselves—that habits of
cleanliness and order may be early instilled
and naturally developed. A piano-forte is
an invaluable adjunct of the Kindergarten,
of which music and singing form one of the
main features.
	Leaping on tables and over benches, rac-
ing, whooping, tearing of clothes, indeed
all the rudeness and boisterousness insepara-
ble from undisciplined natures, whether
youthful or adult, are "ruled out" of the
well-ordered Kindergarten, from the fact
that music accompanies the gymnastics and
intersperses all the exercises, and from the
further fact that so much of healthful free-
dom and variety of occupation are afforded.
The administration of the true Kindergar-
ten being guided by love, gentleness and
well-regulated and fixed purpose, conduct-
ed free of all needless restraint, and still
avoiding, on the other hand, confusion and
disorder, there naturally springs up on the
part of the child a feeling of delight and
affection toward the teacher and toward one
another.
	It is indispensable that the teacher be al-

[Column 2]
ways the first on the spot, not only for the
purpose of getting everything in readiness
for the operations of the day, but also that
her own mind and thoughts be perfectly
calm and composed, for she must feel her-
self for the time being at least, the little
one's truest friend. The children on enter-
ing are expected to be clean and tidy, the
teacher—however ngracious this portion
of her task may possibly be—also discour-
aging all extravagance or gaudiness of at-
tire with which some foolish, short sighted
mothers delight to disfigure their offspring.
Of all resorts, a hall of learning should be
the last for such displays of fancy, and lit-
tle children should not be made to feel their
inequalities of social position by means of
them. The teacher welcomes each little
one alike with a smile and friendly greet-
ing, instructing them by example to return
the same, and at the appointed time order
is called. Then position; simultaneous ris-
ing and sitting without noise, all of which
requires quite a little time for drilling.
	Singing can be conducted by placing the
children in rows according to size and sex.
Then come various exercises alternating on
various days. As soon as the teacher ob-
serves that the pupils grow fatigued with
any one thing and become restless, the sub-
ject of the exercise should be changed rath-
er than let the children give up their occu-
pation regrettingly, thus retaining within
them a longing for "what comes next," and
not feel bored or worried, which is a sure
way to make them lose interest. The ma-
terials (or Toys) pertaining to a successful
management of the institution are many
and various, but all of a character to gradu-
ally develop the infantile faculties in com-
paring and organizing figures of all kinds
according to the laws of form and color,
either by imitation, or in already advanced
stages, by their own unaided invention.
And here it may be remarked that all occu-
pations in the Kindgergarten are called
"plays," and the materials for occupation
"gifts." These I shall explain in a third
and, for the present, concluding article.
