	SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT. 1, 1875.


[Column 1]
			A SHORT EXCURSION
	On the morning of the 27th of July, on my
way to Box Elder Co., I was joined by Sister J.
S. Richards at Ogden, and, exchanging the U.
C. for the U.N., arrived in Willard City in due
time.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society—
had a pleasant time, and, at half past 7 in a
general meeting, organized the young ladies
and girls in a Retrenchment Association, and
met with them on the following day at 2 p. m.
and instructed them in their duties and privi-
leges in an organized capacity. On that eve-
ning Sister Richards returned to Ogden; and
the next morning I went to Brigham City.
	Just after having been comfortably seated in
the house of my brother, Pres. L. Snow, I was
startled by a tremendous report of artillery,
which probably would have shaken a moder-
ately sized house into tremors, but, happily, the
one in which I was ensconced was proof against
that weakness. Surprised rather than terrified,
I hastily enquired to know what was up, and
was quietly informed that the warlike dis-
charge was in honor of my arrival, but, before
my "bump of esteem" had time perceptibly to
enlarge, I recollected that other ladies had been
announced, who should have accompanied me
but had been unavoidably detained, and the
thought suggested itself that, in all proba-
bility, a large portion of that thundering honor
was designed for them, and I concluded that,
had the master of that ceremony been notified
that I was a lone representative of the ladies of
Salt Lake City, he would only have discharged
one piece, and saved all extra ammunition for
other occasions. However, I accepted the dig-
nified expression, but a higher honor awaited
me.
	After this excitement had subsided, I was
escorted by ladies and gentlemen, to the Court
House where a very interesting exhibition—one
of more than ordinary importance, had been
gotten up in honor of the ever memorable 24th
of July, and was preserved intact awaiting my
arrival.
	As we approached the entrance of the Court
Yard, we were greeted with "WELCOME" so
conspicuously formed of evergreens on a white
ground, over the gate, and under a beautiful
arch of the same symbols, as to be distinctly
read in the distance and, as we passed through
we were gretted with "THE UNITED OR-
DER," under another arch surrounding the
steps leading into the Court House; and far-
ther on, "HOME INDUSTRY FOREVER."
	We then entered upon the extensive display,
consisting of choice specimens of Home Indus-
tries from the many departments in successful
operation in that thriving city, tastefully ar-
ranged, and filling every apartment up and
[Column 2]
down stairs. Already, thirty departments are
combined with a Superintendent over each—
these Superintendents all meet at slated times
to be farther instructed, as this great work pro-
gresses. I was informed that three depart-
ments were soon to be added, to wit, a tin-ware
establishment—one ladies' department for straw
manufacture, and one for Artificial Flowers.
Here, no complaint is heard for want of work—
this United Order furnishes employment for
all that want work, and pay from any or all of
these departments, with a specified percentage
from the Mercantile to supply necessary gro-
ceries, &c. But I must pass on from this im-
portant subject.
	At 2 p. m. a large congregation, in the capaci-
ty of a Relief Society, convened in the spacious
Bowery, presided over by Mrs. Harriet A.
Snow. Before the close of the meeting I re-
quested all those wearing home-made hats and
bonnets to signify it by rising to their feet. It
was judged by Pres. Snow, Bishop Nichols and
other brethren present, that two-thirds, at
least, of the congregation arose, including all
of the brethren.
	An expression from the young ladies was
called for, to ascertain if they wished to be or-
ganized into an Association for mental, moral
and spiritual improvement—decided in the af-
firmative, and a meeting was appointed for
that purpose, and all young husbands, beaux.
boys and parents, as well as young ladies and
girls, were invited to attend.
	The next morning (Friday) Sister Richards
rejoined me, and that evening the large public
Hall in the Court House was filled, (the speci-
mens on exhibition having been removed) and,
after appropriate instructions, I organized the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association with
President, six Counselors, Secretary and Assist-
ant Secretary. Over one hundred and fifty
were received by unanimous vote as members.
	Saturday afternoon the brethren held a gen-
eral Priesthood meeting of Box Elder Co., at
which Pres. Snow called for an expression to
ascertain how many were wearing home-made
hats, including fur, felt and straw. I was told
that there were not more than six exceptions,
which speaks well for the brethren of that
County. Many of them wear their home fac-
tory clothes summer and winter.
	Saturday evening Sister Richards returned
home, and Sunday morning, by kind invita-
tion, I went, with others, by carriage to the
tent village of the Shoshone Indians, whom
Brother Hill had been instructing in the culti-
vation of the ground, they being very desirous
of earning their subsistence and learning the
arts of civilization. When we arrived at the
location, we learned that their Bowery was
occupied by other Indians, just arrived from
the North, demanding baptism at the hand of
Bro. Hill, who was then giving them instruc-
tions necessary before performing the sacred or-
dinance. They were said to be from four to
five hundred in number, and I never saw a
more circumspect and attentive audience.
With the exception of the Sioux, these are the
finest looking Indians I have ever seen.
	After the meeting was dismissed, we all went
to the river and witnessed the baptism of per-
haps twenty braves—the brethren having left
an appointment in Bear River City on our
way to Shoshone town, we left Bro. Hill bap-
tizing, and three others confirming, as they
came forward, one by one, in perfect order. It
was an interesting and impressive scene—a liv
ing testimonial of the power of God operating
on the heart of the wild savage of the forest;
for, let it be remembered that these Lamanites
had not been sought after, nor preached to, by
the Latter-day Saints—they were instructed
[Column 3]
from on high, and the knowledge communi-
cated to them, without human instructors, to
whom they should go to receive the ordinances
of the Gospel of Christ.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting in
Bear River City, the rest of the company re-
turned to Brigham City—I stopped and met
with the Relief Society in the evening and
returned on Monday. Tuesday at 2. p. m., the
"Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association of
Brigham City" met in the public hall, and had
a very interesting time. The number of its
members was increased to over two hundred,
and it certainly gives promise of becoming an
instrument of great good for Zion.
	On Wednesday, by invitation of Bro. Jenson,
presiding Elder in Little Valley, I went to
Mantua, accompanied by Sisters H. A and M.
Snow and Sister Jenson—met with the Relief
Society in the morning, and in the afternoon,
organized the young ladies.—Thursday attended
fast meeting, and next day Sister H. A. Snow
and I took the morning train for Deweyville,
where we met with the sisters and assisted
Pres. Dewey in organizing a Relief Society,
and also organized a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association, and returned by the evening
train.
	In all our meetings, deep interest was mani-
fested by the sisters. and also by the brethren
who honored us with their presence, while we
earnestly tried to impress the necessity of
awaking to an active sense of our duties and
responsibilities as women of God, and exert a
united influence in promoting the interests of
Zion—in becoming truly a "peculiar people"
and exhibit the pattern of heavenly things in-
stead of the fashions of a corrupt generation.
Home Industries, as the only means of becom-
ing self-sustaining, was every where made a 
prominent subject. and considering the general
scarcity of money, I received liberal donations
from the Relief Societies of Brigham, Willard,
Bear River and Mantua Cities, and from indi-
viduals, in behalf of the Deseret Silk Associa-
tion.
	I have inadvertently omitted mention of a
pleasant meeting with the sisters at Three
Mile Creek, on the 30th, when a Branch of the
R. Society was organized. for the first time—
they having been previously connected with
that in Brigham City, over which Sister Har-
riet C. Snow presides.
	With a fervent prayer that the blessing of
God may attend the efforts of each organization
which has for its object the purifying and es-
tablishment of Zion, I close this hasty sketch.
				ELIZA R SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, August 12th, 1875.


