SEPARATE POCKET-BOOKS.

	Husbands and wives are not one in any
such sense as to obviate the necessity, or at
least the propriety, of each having a purse
with money in it that each shall feel free to
use as he or she chooses. Tastes differ, and
it is not fair that men or women shall be re-
quired entirely to subordinate their wish-
es in trifling matters to those of the oth-
er part. If they choose to do so, well
and good. Such deference to the opinions
of a husband by the wife is all the more
becoming when known to be voluntary
and not compulsory. A wife often wishes
to give money in charity, and she may
sometimes like to make a pleasant surprise
for her husband in the shape of some appro-
priate present. How can she do this if she
has to go to him and explain in detail what
money she needs and what use she propos-
es to make of it? In bestowing charity, we
are told not to let the left hand know what
the right hand giveth; but how is this pre-
cept to be fulfilled by the thousands of wo-
men who are the "right hand" of so many
households in works of charity where the
left hand, their husbands, keeps all the
money? A lady, evidently a farmer's wife,
writes very sensibly on this topic in the
Western Rural, as follows:
	"Every woman ought to have her own


pocket-book and some way of making mo-
ney that is her own. There are a number of
ways on a farm that this can be done, if one
has a mind to find them. I have a friend
who has all the butter she sells, or rather
all the money she gets for it, for her own;
she does with it as she pleases and accounts
for it to no one, and her husband (sensible
man) thinks it all right. I would not give
a snap to make my husband a present bought
with the money I had by hard exertions
coaxed from him. Who would? He per-
haps would not see what I wanted with it.
I do not want to tell him just then, there-
fore he does not think I need it. Perhaps
I don't; but I notice that the slippers I got
bottomed with it and gave to him on his
birthday or Christmas were thought by him
to be all right, and he didn't "see how he
had ever got along without them." Had I
told him at the time what I wanted of the
money, half the pleasure of receiving and
all the pleasure of giving would have been
gone.
	"Suppose you are out in company and the
ladies are raising a little private fund of
their own, as is often the case, how small a
woman feels to be compelled to say, "I
would like to give something, but Mr. D.
has got the pocket-book, and he is not
here!" Don't you think Mr. D. would feel
rather mean over it when she went home
and told him about it, as she would be sure
to do?
	"How many men can we pick out who
have every kind of improved machinery to
help along their work, who are every now
and then buying some patent right concern,
of no use to themselves or any body else,
while the wife doesn't have any of the
helps there are for her sex—often not even
a washer and wringer! I can find plenty
such. Would it be so if she had some of
the money to spend?
	"Does not a woman look better with a
neat dress, nice collar and a bow of bright
ribbon, than with the dress minus the collar
and bow? Still, if she had asked you to
get them, you would probably have told
her it was 'all foolishness having such fixins'
—she could do just as well without them.'
The woman who never has a little money
for her own use soon gets tired of trying,
and then is pretty sure to go to the other
extreme. Give me the woman that carries
her own pocket-book, and the man who
thinks it is all right for her to do so.
					AUNT PATSY.
	"Pleasant Hill, Iowa.


