A FEW DAY'S JOURNEY.

	What a difference a few miles will make
in surrounding scenery as you travel along,
and what is still more curious difference al-
so in climate, temperature and growth of
vegetation. Taking a north westerly course
from Fillmore, our route lay for the most
part through a vast tract of land covered
with grease wood, a miniature forest, in-
terspersed with broken glades grassy and
green, with now and then a flower lifting
its modest head to grace the beauty of the
scene; groups of trees, hill and dales, make
up the resemblance.


[Column 1]
	From this we passed over what is called
Rush Lake, now evidently completely
changed from what it was when first named,
as there is but little moisture remaining,
only a damp, rough and barren piece of
ground, with here and there bunches of de-
caying rushes. Here I met with a beauti-
ful plant growing near the outer edges,
which closely resembled the common dew
plant, though much more beautiful, having
very large handsome leaves and a small
starry flower.
	Crossing some sand hills we had a smooth
road for a few miles, then rocky black vol-
canic rock, which is considered very good
for building purposes; being porous it is not
apt to be so damp as the more solid material.
On our left, a huge mountain uprose, appar-
ently composed principally of sand stone;
the top of which the wind had swept into
queer cone shaped hills and hollows. Pres-
ently we came in sight of a beautiful lake,
on whose broad expanse sky, mountain
and tree were reflected as in a mirror; geese
and ducks, with other wild fowls were spor-
tively dipping and diving; who can com-
plain of want of water here? said we, but
alas! our lovely lake grew and less as 
we approached, until our eyes beheld (what
is called hereabouts) Mud Lake, and our
trees were sage brush, our water fowl a few
scattered rocks and stones. This so called
lake, is a large clear spot entirely destitute
of vegetation; varying in width from one
and a half, to two miles, and from six to
eight miles in length; it is of a chalky
whiteness interspersed with spots of slate
color, which combined, give the illusive ap-
pearance of water when seen at a certain
distance; very soft all seasons of the year,
and impassable in very wet weather; com-
posed of sand and chalk mixed with various
mineral substances of a soft nature. Gov-
ernment has not as yet surveyed this por-
tion of  country, and we know not what may
lie beneath this extraordinary composition.
The road at last brought us to another for-
est of grease wood, which appeared delight-
ful, being of a fresh green, exceedingly
restful to the eye after enduring the glare
of the sunlight on the mysterious Mud
Lake. Here on the banks of the Sevier
River are the remains of Deseret City, where
an immense amount of labor was expended
years ago which proved an entire failure;
the Sevier being an exceedingly treacher-
ous stream, and the people unacquainted
with any plan by which to secure a firm
bulwark against the water, unlike the little
animal called the beaver, which I am told
has formed dams at some point or points,
farther on toward the river's source. This
place is thirty-five or forty miles from Fil-
more. From this to Oak Creek, a distance
of about twenty-five miles north of East,
our road passed through sand hills and hol-
lows; within six miles of Oak Creek the
wind comes down through a gap in the
mountains and passing through a gentle
hollow, plays fantastic tricks with the sand
alternately tearing down, and building up;
scooping out and separating the white sand
from the black in a curious manner, form-
ing hills, the size of a small log cabin, only
a few rods distance from each other.
	Oak Creek is a small settlement nestling
closely to the mountain side, corn and su-
gar cane grow well here, with plenty of
vegetables; the inhabitants have built a
bridge over the Sevier river so as to cut off
some miles of travel to Sanpete Co., where
they go yearly to exchange corn and mo-
lasses, for wheat and flour. Fish in abun-
dance is caught from the river.
	The people are evidently wide awake in
their interests for the St. George Temple;

[Column 2]
The widow came also with her mite; they
gave liberally according to their means.
Bro. John Dudson of this place is making a
collection of ancient relics, found in plow-
ing his land; they are quite interesting.
More anon.		As ever yours,
						A. B. C.


