WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Associations,
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Aug. 14th, 1875, was characterized with
much of the spirit of the present reforma-
tion. The minutes from the different wards
were spirited and encouraging, the speak-
ers seemed filled with light and intelligence
from on high; and in all their exhortations
sought to inspire others with an interest in
those things which are most conducive to
union and peace.
	Minutes of a Retrenchment meeting held
at Payson City, Aug. 12th, 1875. After the 
usual exercises and reading of the minutes,
Mrs. Jane Cowens, Mrs. Almeda M. Snider,
Misses Ida Coombs, Jenny Winsley, Phebe
Davis, Mary Curtis, Ida Richmond, Alice
Courts, Tishy Davis, Martha Fairbanks, An-
na Searle, Mary J. Done, Lucinda Win-
ward, Mary Fairbanks and Eliza Jones, each
made a few remarks; after which Presi-
dent Miss Jane Daniels said we had made a
good commencement and hoped we would
prosper, said we would accomplish much
good in attending these meetings. Meet-
ing then adjourned for one week after sing-
ing and prayer.
			MARTHA FAIRBANKS,
			ANNA SEARLE SEC'YS.
	We are prospering and hope to continue
tinue so. We are gathering straw
and we hope soon to be engaged in
straw braiding. We feel to encourage all
the Retrenchment meetings throughout the
Territory and hope we will soon all be en-
gaged in HOME INDUSTRIES. Wishing you
success in your endeavors to do the will of
God, we subscribe ourselves daughters of
Zion in the Gospel.
	Minutes of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association of the First Ward. Af-
ter the opening exercises and reading of
the minutes an essay was read by Mrs. A.
Fletcher. President Mrs. Sarah Graham ad-
dressed the meeting in a very pleasing and
encouraging spirit, she was followed by her
counselors Mrs. A. Campbell and Mrs. J.
Van Tassell.
	Mrs. M. G. Chase President of the Re-
lief Society spoke in a very impressive
manner; after which Miss S. Smith, Miss A.
Adams and Mrs. A. Fletcher expressed their
feelings in an earnest and humble spirit.
Mrs. M. Hawkins bore her testimony also;
Mrs. Shipp from the Eleventh Ward then
spoke upon the subject of Retrenchment
and her idea of woman and her work; also
spoke of obedience. Superintendent Mrs.
E. Higgs also spoke upon obedience. Bish-
op J. Warburton expressed his satisfaction
with the improvement we were making and
desired us to persevere in the path of duty.
He made some excellent remarks in regard
to the United Order, said it was the only
thing that would do away with selfishness;
asked the people if they were ready for re-
baptism and spoke of round dances as be-
ing against counsel.
	The President Mrs. Sarah Graham then
called for a vote to see who would refrain
from round dancing, and the majority re-
sponded. With the usual ceremonies
meeting adjourned.
			S. SMITH, A ADAMS, SECY'S.
				MANTI, July 22nd, 1875.
DEAR SISTER SNOW:
	Pardon the liberty I take in addressing
you, but owing to the limited time you
spent here I was unable to say much in re-
[Column 2]
gard to silk raising, and knowing that you
and your co-laborers are doing everything
in your power to establish this most useful
branch of industry among the sisters in
Zion, I thought a few words from one who
has been accustomed to feeding worms and
making silk from her childhood might not
be amiss.
	I have had a few worms for the last three
years, but I have not taken sufficient to 
make a business of it yet, nevertheless my
experience proved conclusively that, if we
immediately take measures to procure mul-
berry trees and put them where they will
be most secure from frost and work with a
will, it will yet be a source of untold wealth
for Utah. There are quite a number here
who have a few of the trees on their lots,
and I have requested them to save the cut-
tings. If we can procure a suitable place
to set them out this fall, we shall send to
the City for a large quantity. Since writ-
ing the above I have applied to our County
Judge for a half block owned by the County
in the south eastern part of town, in a very
favorable locality as regards frosts. The
Judge could not say whether the County
would sell it, but thought perhaps the So-
ciety might obtain a lease of it for a speci-
fied time. If we can get it and are success-
ful in getting the trees started we can make
a very fair beginning with what trees we
have in the gardens. If you have any
suggestions to make, or a word of counsel to
offer it will be most thankfully received. I
think your visit to our place will result in
great good to the sisters here, I can already
see a marked change, and think we are
awaking to a sense of our duty.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
				REBECCA WAREHAM,
						R. S. Society.
	WEST JORDAN WARD, Aug. 13th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Please permit me to say that I have been
a member of our society since the date of
its organization and have perused with
pleasure your invaluable paper, have been
delighted with reading the letters from dif-
ferent settlements through the Territory;
hearing how their societies were getting
along. I have looked the papers over
and over again to try to find a letter
from our society but failed. Ignorant as I
am I will drop you a few lines. We held
our meeting on Sunday, the eighth of the
present month. Bishops Samuel Wooley
and A. Gardner were present, they gave us
good instruction on the principles of the
gospel and more especially on raising our
children. Bishop A. Gardner gave us
great praise, said we had taken a great
load from him in taking care of the poor;
told us to press forward and we should be
blest. Sister Cooper, the first counselor
then thanked them, and herself and a few
other sisters bore their testimonies and the
meeting was adjourned. Prayer by Sister
M. Turner.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
						R. M. W.
	17th WARD, S. L. CITY, Aug. 13, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Semi-Annual Meeting was held at
the residence of Mrs. Susan E. Smith, on 
Thursday, the 5th day of August, and not-
withstanding the extreme heat of the
weather, the attendance was very large,
every block of the Ward being represented
by its Teacher; something that has not oc-
curred in many months.
	Our Treasurer Sister Eliza A. Felt, was
taken from us by Death on the 19th of June
[Column 3]
which was severely felt by all in the So-
ciety, as well as those who ever had the
pleasure of her acquaintance. She had
faithfully discharged the duties of Treasur-
er for over seven years, and genuine sor-
row was felt at her death.
	Our President Mrs. Hyde, motioned at
our last meeting that the Secretary write a
few lines to the EXPONDNT to let them and
others know that we are doing all in our
power to aid in rolling on the great Work of
the Latter Days, said motion was passed by
a unanimous vote. As a Society we are
busy making quilts for the coming winter,
and the visiting committee who have just
finished one, are making another for the
Temple.
	At a late meeting Mrs. Harriet Doremus
was elected Treasurer of the society in
place of Sister Felt. We all feel well and
hope to be worthy to remain your sisters in
the Gospel.
		MRS. M. N. HYDE, Prest.,
			MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secy.
		SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT.
Received in donations half-year... $ 80 00
Disbursed to the needy.................  104 07
Articles sold.................................     31 00
At interest....................................    418 00
Cash remaining in the Treasury...      17 95
Mdse............................................      80 00
			MRS. HARRIET DOREMUS, Treas.
				MANTI CITY, Aug. 16th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The following resolutions were read and
adopted by the Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Society, organized at Manti Aug.
14th, 1875.
	Whereas realizing the importance of a
correct training of our influence as young
ladies of Manti in directing the actions of
society, and whereas, we realize we are in
a great measure the architects of our own
fortunes for weal or woe in the community,
and the necessity of our preparing our-
selves for more responsible duties in life,
	Therefore be it resolved that we form
ourselves into a society of Mutual Improve-
ment for the cultivation of our mind in lit-
erature, religion and science, and using our
talents in the noble purpose of benefiting
mankind and especially our own sex.
	Twenty-five young ladies were enrolled,
of which were chosen,
	Miss Hannah Billings President,
	  "	Dortea Hansen,     }
	  "	Marrion Grier,      }
	  "	Hattie Moffit,       }
	  "	Christena Mason, }		Counselors.
	  "	Mary E. Vorhees,  }
	  "	Rensie Anderson, }
	  "	Maggie Reid,        }
	  "	Mary E. Snow Treasurer.
