HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Broiled Tomatoes.—Cut medium-sized tomatoes
in halves and put them upon a gridiron, surface
down. When the surface appears to be somewhat
cooked turn them, and finish the cooking with the
skin toward the fire. The cooking should be
gradual, so as not to break the skin. Place upon
a dish, put a little salt and a lump of butter upon
each half, and serve quite hot.
	To Can Tomatoes.—Be sure they are perfectly
fresh and ripe; immerse them a minute or two in
scalding water—in an ox muzzle if you have one;
remove the skin, put the pulp into a colander to
drain; then put in the preserving kettle and boil
till just done; a minute to long will make the seeds
give out their bitter flavor, put at once in cans and
seal. If these directions are followed, you may
have tomatoes all winter as fresh as though just
from the vine.
	Chowder of Piccalilli.—To half a bushel of
nicely chopped tomatoes, which must be squeezed
dry, add two dozen onions chopped fine, one doz-
en green peppers chopped, one box of ground
mustard, one large root of grated horseradish,
nearly a pint of salt, four tablespoonfuls ground
cloves, four of allspice. Mix thoroughly in a
stone jar and cover with vinegar, making a hole
in the center to let the vinegar to the bottom.
	Chow Chow.—Take 3 pecks of ripe tomatoes and
3 of green ones, 5 large solid cabbage heads, 1 doz.
large onions, one doz. white peppers, 1 doz.
green peppers; 1/2 lb. celery, chop these all very
fine, cover with salt, soak 24 hours, then drain off
the brine, cover with vinegar, add 3 lbs. sugar, one
teacupful of grated horse raddish; 2 tablespoon-
fuls of white mustard seed, 1 of cloves, 2 of all-
spice, 2 of ginger, 1 of ground mustard, cover
all closely and set it aside for one month then it
is ready for use.
	To Remove Mildew.—We have several times
been asked for a valuable recipe for the removal
of mildew. We doubt whether there is any meth-
od that is infallible in all cases, but the following,
which we find in an English Journal, will often
prove effectual: Make a very weak solution of
chloride of lime in water (about a heaped-up tea-
spoonful to a quart of water) strain it carefully,
and dip the spot on the garment into it; and if the
mildew does not disappear immediately, lay it in
the sun for a few minutes, or dip it again in the
lime-water. The work is effecutally and speedily
done, and the chloride of lime neither rots the
cloth nor removes delicate colors, when sufficiently
diluted, and the articles rinsed afterwards in clear
water.—Boston Journal of Chemistry.


