		AN ESSAY ON PRAYER.

	What is prayer?—Most of us can answer
that question, it is the means ordained by
our Father in heaven whereby we can ask
for and receive blessings, to acknowledge
our faults and obtain forgiveness, to goto
Him when in trouble and get our wounded
spirits healed. Prayer is the greatest con-
solation the people of God have, for true it
is we are a tried people, and have great
things to contend with, it is therefore nec-
essary we should pray often that the good
spirit may reign predominant. We have
two spirits hovering around us, the good
and evil, each trying to obtain possession of
our minds, when the good spirit takes the
lead, why then the evil one has to leave, for
both cannot work together in unison. We
should endeavor therefore to always keep
the Spirit of God within us, and allow our-
selves to be led and guided by its dictates;
if we do not the consequence is it will not
remain, for the Lord says "My Spirit cannot
dwell in tabernacles that are unclean or im-
pure." Therefore my sisters it is necessary
we should guard our every thought, deed
and action, strive to do right as far as we
can, and pray for strength to resist evil; if
we do this, we need not fear but what the
Holy Spirit will be a frequent visitor; it
will prove the best company we can desire,
it will store our minds with good and use-
ful knowledge, which if put in practice will
bring forth fruit that will prove satisfactory
to ourselves and those whom we associate
with. Then let us not feel ashamed to ac-
knowledge to our brethren and sisters and
the world even that we have frequent com-
munications with our Heavenly Father but
feel proud that we have the privelege of so
doing.
	I will relate a circumstance that occurred
to me in connection with prayer about two
weeks ago, I started from home with the
intention of attending retrenchment meet-
ing in this Ward; on leaving the house a re-
mark was made to me which hurt my feel-
ings; I walked on a short distance, a spirit
that is not of God took possession of me,
and whispered do not go to meeting, and
in my weakness I gave way to its influence
and turned back. Did I feel happy and
contented? No, indeed. I felt wretched,
my conscience smote me the moment I en-
tered the house, I endeavored to drive
away that feeling of remorse and sought
amusement in music, but it had no charm
as at other times; after a while I went to
my room and asked God to forgive me and
take away the evil spirit that had prompted
me to do wrong. Did the Lord answer my

[Column 2]
prayer? Yes, immediately, I felt better be-
fore arising from my knees and resolved
in my own mind never again to give way to
the promptings of the evil one. I mention
this my sisters, as a testimony that the
Lord is ever ready and willing to forgive
and bless us if we will only humble our-
selves sufficiently to obtain forgiveness.
In speaking of prayer, it is necessary we
should exercise faith, for without it praying
would not avail us much, when we ask for
a blessing we must have faith that we will
get it; and sometimes we ask for things and
may probably exercise faith and do not get
what we ask for, we feel hurt and think the
Lord would not hear us. It is not so, they
are withheld by reason that the Lord con-
siders it not good for us to have them.
Then let us not feel discouraged or cast
down when our prayers are not answered,
but always bear in mind whatever happens
it is all for the best, for God's thoughts are
not as man's thoughts, nor His ways as
man's ways. My sisters ever strive for the
Holy Spirit that you may continue to be
humble and prayerful is my earnest desire
in the name of Jesus. Amen.
			  MISS LAURA CUSHING.
	Aug. 2nd, 1875.


