WHO IS RICH?

	A cultivated and refined imagination is the
greatest source of pure enjoyment  Wanting
this, persons may be possessed of wealth un-
limited and surrounded by all things cheerful
and beautiful, yet pass along without music in
their hearts or sunshine in their lives, because
of their inability to comprehend the true value
of the blessings vouchsafed; or (to a happify-
ing extent) the magnanimity and excellence of
the bestower of all good.
	But to those who have the faculty of appre-
ciation full and improved, there is no bound to
innocent and intelligent pleasure. For such it
seems the world itself was formed. All works
of art, the most magnificent structures, the
boldest attempts at imitation of the inimitable
—and nature's self, her hights and depths with
all that they contain, are food for their deft
souls to feast upon. Not sight alone, but every
sense is gratified through the abundant mea-


sures heaven ordains. And not alone has
grandeur or great worth, for them, the power to
charm; things of the least import are worthy
their attentive thought. The humblest mani-
festations of the matchless wisdom of Omnipo-
tence, have means wherewith to please, aston-
ish and draw forth adoration.
	A floating cloud, a leaf, a ray of light; the
streamlet's ripple or the winds soft sigh; and
myriads of kindred sights and sounds serve
each to afford its portion of delight, by which,
with studious and reflective thought, long trains
of happy, useful days are filled.
	There are loftier pleasures still, which are se-
cured or lost through the same medium  Smiles,
loving words or acts, the dear, sweet delicacies
and higher courtesies of life, calculated to serve
so effectually in smoothing the rough places,
softening many a hard lot and lightening many
a heavy burden, are all lost to the suspicious,
unreasoning, inconsiderate being who fancies
every soul as sordid and selfish as itself, and
believes its coarse, unfriendly ways more hon-
est than the kind and gentle manner of the
generous and humane.
	Yet to one possessing inherent gratefulness of
heart with ambition to improve the natural
gifts, the most sacred bliss that mortals can en-
joy arises from the holy sentiments, love and
trust and kind appreciation; which, fashioned
into speech and action, form rich embodiments
of thoughts sublime.
	Nothing adds so much to individual happi-
ness as the feeling of grateful appreciation; and
nothing can be offered in return for obligations
more gratifying than the manifestations of it.
	There is even more satisfaction in contem-
plating the divine works in the formation of
man; his character and attributes, than in
those of nature. And were this done more ex-
tensively and thoroughly than it is, and more
genuine appreciation shown to real worth
though it might be surrounded by disadvanta-
geous ciucumstances—and not so much fawn-
ing and flattery lavished upon worldly wit and
wealth though coupled with evil—the world
would, without doubt, be blest with more true
men and women than it knows anything of to-
day.
	The sin of ingratitude the Lord has pro-
nounced a grievous sin. But how shall grati-
tude exist without a realizing sense of benefits
received! It becomes, therefore, a direct reli-
gious duty, as well as a principle of good taste
and judgment to cultivate an appreciative dis-
position. They are rich who can appreciate
and enjoy the blessings which the Almighty
administers to His believing children.


