		THREE SABBATH MORNINGS.

Upon the new born earth the glorious sun
Of the first Sabbath rose. Around, above, beneath
Was one sweet scene of beauty, peace and joy;
All animated life, the beasts and birds, the trees
And flowers, were joined in one accord, to sing
Their Maker's praise on this the first sweet day of rest,
			Adam and Eve, whose hearts o'erflowed
With love and happiness, and praises to their
Father and their God, came forth to view
The glorious work completed. Hand in hand
They wandered 'mid the pure and holy scenes of
Edens heavenly bowers.
			But vain, all vain the effort
Of the pen to paint the picture, the mind which soars
Beyond the power of languag to portray its visions,
Fails to realize the glories of that Sabbath morn.
And now, how oft, with aching hearts in bitter
Anguish, do we ask the question—
Why could not this pure state of being last forever?
But no, it could not thus remain and God's great
Plan of being per ected, so Adam fell that
Man might be: might know both good and
Evil, might choose and win eternal life.
How often do we hear the thoughtless jest,
The harsh and cruel judgement passed
Upon the Parents of our mortal lives,
Where naught but love and gratitude should be
For those who knowing, nobly paid the price.
			Thus sin and death with their long train
Of misery crept in—all know what followed
How the earth was made to groan beneath the
Weight of crime and woe it bore, and how the
Gates of heaven were opened, and how the waters in
	mighty
Floods descended and earth received her baptism,
And her children a watery grave.
			How the one man and his family faithful to
Their God, dwelt safely in their little ark upon the
Bosom of the waters.
		Again the morning dawns upon the Sabbath day.
But oh! how changed from the first of the creation,
What must have been the feelings of Noah and his
Family as they gazed upon the ruin and desolation
Spread out on every hand?
Did their hearts not mourn for friends and kindred
Lost, ties and associations sundered, or did the
Visions of their mind expand, so they beheld the glory,
The wisdom and the love of God even in that; and
Feelings of mortality were hushed, and praise and
Prayer to the great King arose.
		Upon the cloud the covenant token between
God and man was placed, the Rainbow which in
Its radiant beauty still o'erhangs our earth,
Methinks I see them on that hushed and solemn Sabbath
Morn, kneeling around the altar which their hands
Had reared, in prayer to God, while sweet incense
From the sacrifice arose.
The sacrifice which was a type of Him whose life
Was to redeem the world from Adam's fall.

Time sped on, another people made their homes above
The graves of those who had been swept away.
For a time they dwelt in righteousness:
But Satan's hosts again gained power on earth,
And when he came, He whose coming had o'ershadowed
Earth even from the beginning came to His own, came
To redeem and lead them back to God, they knew Him not,
		He the meek and lowly Jesus went forth among
Them, healing the sick, speaking words of comfort to the
Sorrowful, and teaching pure principles of righteousness
And truth, yet in the hardness of their hearts did
They revile and persecute Him, even spit upon Him.
He would have blessed them as no other one could bless.

By and bye the cry went forth to crucify Him—
Crucify the Son of God.
		Is there a pain that's deeper, keener, deadlier,
Than all other woe that mortal be ings feel,
It is to have one we have known and called by
Friendship's sacred [--] betray our trust:
By such a one was Christ betrayed and with a kiss,
Which should be brought by loves [--] holy token
		They nailed Him to the cross alone, forsaken,
In that bitter hour by all, and for a moment even by His
		God.
Yet deep and clear His dying words came forth,
"Forgive them Father for they know not what they do,"

[Column 2]
	The sun in shame and sorrow hid his face,
And darkness deep and terrible spread o'er the earth,
Fearfully the lightning gleamed, the thunder's dreadful
Voice was heard, and Earth was shaken to
Her centre, then horror struck they gazed and
Knew what they had done.
Then when that fearful scene was o'er they who
Had loved Him well, bore Him away and with
Bitter tears and lamentations laid Him in the
Sepulcher.
		When the third morning dawned.
And the Sun arose his beams were faint as though
He thought earth needed not his light
For Christ the Son of God, the Savior of the
World had risen from the dead.
									Hope.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
