FLOWERS.

	A WHITE glove often covers a dirty
hand.
	God blesses not alone that which we do,
but that which we try to do.
	NEVER part without loving words to
think of during your absence.
	HE has the largest life who lives lovingly
in the hearts of the largest number of peo-
ple.
	IT is but a short step from modesty to
humility, but a shorter one from vanity to
folly.
	HEARTS have windows.  They should be
kept open at all times, that the glad sun-
shine of all that is true and beautiful in this
life may enter and abide therein.
	IF I were suddenly asked to give a proof
of the goodness of God to us, I think I
should say that it is most manifested in the
exquisite difference He has made between
the souls of women and men, so as to cre-
ate the possibility of the most charming
companionship the mind of man can imag-
ine.—Arthur Helps.
	FEELING maketh a lively man; thought
maketh a strong man; action maketh a use-
ful man—and all these together make a per-
fect man.  Now, abide these three: Feel-
ing, thought, action, and the greatest of
these is action; but neither can abide with-
out the others.  Some men think much,
feel little, and act less.  They are univer-
sally unsafe and unlovely men.
	THERE are some men who carry sunshine
and happiness, by their very presence,
wherever they go.  The ills of life sit
lightly on them; they make the best of
everything. They inhale and enjoy the fra-
grance of the rose while it lasts, without
pausing to lament that to-morrow its leaves
will be withered.  Their hearts swell with
delight at the many-colored rainbow, and
as its hues quickly fade, they say to them-
selves, Never mind, it was a bright bow of
promise, anyhow.
	Such people are the true, practical philoso-
phers.  They find in the fact that life is
short a conclusive argument in favor of en-
joying as nearly every moment of it as pos-
sible.
	They are not only the happiest of people
themselves, but they do a great deal to
make all around them happy.  Their pres-
ence is everywhere welcome; their absence
is felt and regretted.  They help the world
on, and contribute to make it joyous.


