SOLVING A PROBLEM.

	SINCE we read in Holy Writ that God
made of one blood all nations of the earth
I would ask are we all equal? It would
seem that all are of one family: but are all
brothers and sisters equal? Oh no! Some
have greater intelligence than others, ac-
cordingly some are qualified to be teachers
while others are only learners, yet at the
same time those teachers are still progress-
ing, learning from a fountain of light and
intelligence greater truths to benefit the
human family. Well since this is the case
do we not feel to pay honor and respect to
those who are teaching us; and also feel
regret and shame when we sometimes make
a mistake through neglect or indifference.
Now I would ask is this pride? if so do we


inherit it naturally.  I ask this question
because I learn from the Book of Mormon
that pride is a fearful attribute. (Also in all
sacred writings.)
	We read that Jesus after His resurrection,
came to this continent, to teach this people
the laws of life and Salvation.  He taught
them the same laws that He gave to those
at Jerusalem, called Christ’s sermon on the
mount, recorded in Mathew, 5 &6 & 7
chapters.
	I feel satisfied in my mind that while we
apply our minds to this study of the laws
of God we do not allow pride to have any
place in us.  We are all as children learning
the lessons we so much need, and applying
them to practice.
	We find in the Book of Nephi (3 Nephi)
that this people were blessed in like manner;
for four generations passed away in
righteousness.  But the next generation was
affected by pride.  There came strife and
confusion with all their attendant train of
evils.  Wickedness then prevailed and
righteousness ceased to bear rule.
	Now in these days great knowledge is
being restored to the earth, and we know
that knowledge is power, we see this in’
electricity and also in steam.  Let us also
remember St. Paul’s word, who said,
“Knowledge puffeth up but charity :
edifieth.” This being the case, do not we
have great need of caution and care.
Strictly applying our minds to the laws
given in Christ’s Sermon on the mount.
Then we will live by the golden rule, and
do to others as we would that they should
do to you.  Let us therefore apply our
minds to wisdom; for it is written that:
“Her ways are pleasant and all her paths
are peace."  By observing these laws we
may keep our balance and not fall; for
remember it is written.  “Pride comes
before destruction, and a haughty spirit be-
fore a fall.”
