and E. J. Stevenson. Meeting opened by
singing, “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation” and prayer by Maria L. Nebeker,
singing, O, ye mountains high etc.
	President Horne made a few opening re-
marks and spoke a short time upon the
World’s Fair, particularly of the manufac-
tures and the accurate representations of
different countries,and also agriculture, and
described some of the State Buildings,
mentioned Illinois, Iowa, South Dakota and
described the corn palace most definitely,
Canada was not forgotten nor the cheese
weighing 22000 lbs.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney spoke upon
spiritual topics entirely, and the many
testimonies we are receiving from day to
day.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells dwelt at some length
upon the World’s Fair exhibits, the
Woman’s Building including our own silk
exhibit, the Fine Arts, the Liberal Arts and
the General Buildings. 
	Dr. M. H. Cannon gave an interesting
account of the convent of La Rabida where
Columbus called on his way to the Court of
Spain to ask for bread for himself and his
boy, when the old monk encouraged him to
persevere in his endeavors to discover a new
land, told him it was the will of the Lord,
described the room where Columbus slept,
it was filled with the paintings of him, and
of the period,artists differed in their ideas of
the subject. She said she had been deeply
interested in the Cliff Dwellings and the
bearing it had upon the authenticity of the
Book of Mormon and the proofs of a pre-
historic people. Her address was specially
entertaining.
	President Horne in closing the Conference


talked of the need of help there would be this
winter, so many being out of employment
and enjoined upon the sisters to take care of
the poor and let none suffer for the 
necessaries of life.
	Officers of the Relief Society of the
Stake were sustained, and President Horne
spoke of the disasters that were coming 
which had been prophesied of by the 
Prophet Joseph, spoke of the sisters having 
been blessed in their absence and returning
