acting as Secretary in the absence of Margaret A. Caine. Meeting opened with
singing, “Lord we come before thee now,”
etc., prayer was offered by E. B. Fletcher.
Singing, O, my Father thou that dwellest,"  
ect. Roll called and was responded to as

[Column 2]
follows, 19 branches represented by Presi-
dents, 11 by Counselors, 3 by Secretaries,
Treasurer one, teachers two, making in all
36 branches, leaving ten without represen-
tation. The President made some opening
remarks, regretted the delinquencies and
urged those present to make every effort to
awaken others to a realization of the im-
portance of being diligent in the work of
the Society, and seek to become more intelli-
gent upon all subjects, and especially to set
good examples in all places and at all
times, in the home and before the world.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the silk in-
dustry the efforts that were being made to
encourage it and of Sisters Caine, Fosgreen
and Pyper going to Chicago to manufacture
it from the Utah cocoons, with the primi-
tive reel and loom that had been used here.
	Verbal reports—President Emma Wood-
ruff, Farmer’s Ward, Sugar House, President
Gibson, Mill Creek, President Hill, Union,
Secretary Smarts, South Jordan, Counselor
Holt, West Jordan,President Cutler, North
Jordan,President Pixton, Granger, Counse-
lor Park, Pleasant Green, President Hirst,
Riverton, President Silcock, Centre Ward,
President Whittaker, Brighton, President
Hazon. All the reports were favorable and
there seemed to be an excellent spirit
and feeling with them.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made a few re-
marks especially exhorting the sisters to
faithfulness and advancement in the practi-
cal work of the organization, said many
good things, cautioned all to act with wis-
dom. Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
Singing Doxology, benediction by E.
Stevenson.
	Afternoon session: On the stand with
President Horne were her Counselors E. S.
Taylor and H. M. Whitney also acting
Secretary E. B. Wells and Sisters E. Webb
