WOMAN.

	WOMAN, the master-piece, the finishing
touch of the Almighty. See her on the
sixth day of creation walking beside of
that noble being man, who was formed in
the image of his Maker. Not to be his
slave, nor to humor his every whim, but
his helpmeet and confident; to be the sharer
of his joys and sorrows. His equal in all
save physical strength. For centuries she
has played a subordinate part, but, as
civilization advances the natural rights of
woman will be more and more recognized
until each sex will stand equal before the
law, and finally her superiority in many
respects will be granted and she will reap
the rewards of all the advantage it brings.
Let us behold her as she enters upon mar-
ried life. Young, full of hope and ambition.
She gives herself freely to the man of her
choice believing him to be noble, good,
virtuous and true. He is her ideal, almost
her world. Her nature is loving, trusting
and confiding. In a year perhaps she be-
comes a mother. What a responsibility! 
	No matter what the husband and father
may prove to be, her little one in a few
short months begins to watch her every
look and action and soon learns to imitate.
Then as a mother to whom children are
confided, let her look well to it that she ap-
preciates, understands, and observes the
duties she has assumed. Her children are
her jewels. What a loving yet laborious
task she has to perform! Over half her
life is spent in rearing and caring for her
children, and what a debt of gratitude they
owe her. How she hopes and prays for
their welfare, that they may become useful
men and women. Even among her own
children how different are their dispositions.
	How careful she should be of the exam-
ple she sets before them. Once the famous
Garibaldi made the remark “Give me the
mothers of a nation to educate and you may
do what you like with the boys.”
	All women are not destined it would seem
to become wives and mothers, but, in this
day when so many avenues are open which
in the past were confined to men, it is to
her interest to improve her mind, broaden
her ideas, become more intelligent that she
may stand upon an equal footing with her
brother man, as a lawyer, physician etc. or
any other vocation she may choose to pur-
sue and the time will eventually come when
she will receive the same remuneration for
her labor. At the present time the
World’s Fair is demonstrating to all nations
what woman has and can do. Her future
prospect is bright. There is every thing to
encourage her to widen her sphere of action,
to more fully develop her mental faculties
that have lain dormant so long. The re-
sult will be shown in posterity.
