PASSING THOUGHTS.
	THE LAKE.—During the past month of
pleasure seeking and patriotism—not that
we are not patriotic in other months but
July always calls forth a little extra amount
of that quality—the world seems so sleepy
and weary and discontented after the ex-
citement of the noisy holidays are over that
every one who can seeks a change and rest.
This is the time when the leisure class seek
the cooler air of the mountain glades or sea
side villages, spending the greater part of
their time swinging in hammocks and read-
ing novels only indulging in such pastimes
as require little or no exertion. No doubt
the rest thus taken refreshes and revigorates
to such an extent that the cares of the
busy season are much more easily borne.
Would it were within the means and power
of every one to indulge in a quiet restful
change during the hot months, but unfor-
tunately it is not yet, here in Utah we need
not murmur on that account for at our very
doors lie the pleasure aud the enjoyment
others go miles to seek. Within a half
hour’s ride is our beautiful lake—the pride
of our territory. A favorite spot for artists,
where the laughing waves beat a steady
solemn dirge against the shores of its
mountainous islands, and the dark swaying
waters cause the gleams from the setting
sun to glow in crimson and green and gold
in the sky above and throw its glorious
colors on the purple hills beyond. A
blessed spot for the health seeker, where a
bath in the warm salt waters gives to the
body new life and invigorates one beyond
descrlption, while to the young who seek
only an hour’s pleasure,there with the bath
and the delights of the magnificent pavilion
there is nothing to be desired. Without
wishing to give the impression that I am
advertising a place I should like to simply
rave over our new resort Saltair, but as the
EXPONENT is not given much to raving, I
suppose I must subdue myself and simply
declare for my own part that the few
journeys out there have caused me to have
such an affection for the place that I would
be a very frequent visitor, and I am so
proud to think that Salt Lake can claim a
resort of such magnificence and beauty.
	Of course the scenery from any point
near the lake is beautiful, the air is refresh-
ing and the bathing delightful, yet each one
must choose for himself how, when and
where he can best eujoy the summer
months, for my own part and I wish all
Utah felt the same, I would say to my
friends, Stay at home and spend your
spare time and spare means among your
own people and enjoy the health giving
pleasures of your own territory In prefer-
ence to seeking them abroad.
	As for Saltair, too much cannot be said.
It far surpasses all one can imagine of a
seaside pavilion. I would not attempt to
describe it, to do so without illustrations
would be absurd.  It is enough to say that
it is large enough to accommodate any
crowd the territory might choose to gather
there. Its conveniences both for comfort
and pleasure are ample and complete, it is
perfectly free from every unpleasant or low
association, and a high toned and superior
air pervades it at all times to such an ex-
tent, that one has a perfect feeling of se-
curity even when alone among crowds of
unknown persons.
	I believe my expressions are but an echo
of what hundreds of others feel concerning
our new and fine resort, for on every hand
one hears only words of praise for the
projectors,and admiration for the picturesque
pavilion which if equaled in any land is
certainly not surpassed.

	MOTHER GOOSE AGAIN.—I suppose it was
while crooning some lullaby to my little
baby that the question arose in my mind
about Mother Goose and I ventured to ask
the EXPONENT readers who she was. My
question has been answered both from the
North and the South, and I laugh at my
own ignorance. I, a woman of New Eng-
land pedigree, who always have loved those
nursery rhymes not to know that the author
was from dear old Boston. The last EX
PONENT had a very interesting account of
Mother Goose from a Provo friend and now
comes another description from Idaho.
The two are so similar that we need not
publish the latter. Both tell that no monu-
ment or stone marks the resting place of
the dear old soul, though it is in the old
south cemetery in Boston near the grave of
Paul Revere. If times were not so hard
that every effort must be exerted for the
living, I think a subscription among the
world’s children for a monument to “Mother
Goose" would be quite a popular idea, but
Boston who claims her both in life and in
death would surely claim the privilege of
erecting it, though she might not scorn
assistance from other parts.

	A QUIETY CITY:—It was a holiday and I
knew all the streets would be deserted and
the houses closed and people would leave
the heated city to seek a change and rest
the quiet of the city was almost oppressive
no sounds from the engines of the factories,
no hammering on the blacksmith’s anvil,no
fire in the furnace,no tradesman’s noisy call,
everything was quiet as the sabbath and
the thought seized me to wander away from
home myself; my feet did not carry me
however among the gathering crowd of
pleasure seekers but far away on the hill-
side to the sleeping city of throbless hearts
and folded hands. One often calls on
friends and in a few moments of conversa-
tion and association many things are learned
but when one quietly and alone visits the
graves of those we loved, there is a sweet
communion of souls. In memory only do
they live, but at these sacred spots their
resting places, they nearer seem.
	Oh,how many are there now where only a
few short years agone not one dearly loved
one lay.
	I mark to day so many places as I pass
through winding paths and am almost start-
led at times as I unexpectedly behold the
white stone on my way the name of some old
friend. I have stood by the grave of my
grand, old father and in my mind his
mighty form and benign countenance


almost translucent seemed to rise before me.
I could feel the pressure of his soft hand 
and the warmth of his loving kiss, could
hear his gentle word of admonition and
blessing, just as in life he was wont to do.
	We pause and recall at each dear spot,
some memory of the loved one here but one
little grave far beyond like a magnet draws 
us on past sisters', children, past cherished
friends, and sisters fondly loved.  That one 
little grave took away all fear or death and
brought heaven very near.  It is the tie
between heaven and earth, all that lies here
is so pure and lovely, and the clasp of the
baby arms about my neck and the unspoken
thoughts in the lovely eyes are brought
back fresh before me.  Dear little baby!
God took you home to him but we claim
you still, to us you cannot die.  Was I
irritable and cross today, have I been unkind
and unreasonable, oh, how selfish I seem
to myself, how reproved! now I wonder if
she knew, my little one, what a discontented
perturbed spirit I had this morning, but I 
am better now, the tears I shed o'er your
little grave have done me good, I know
you await me and I hope to live that I may
see you once again; how mean we seem to
ourselves, how silly to be worried over the 
trifling everyday annoyances, that can't we
live above it all.  The memory of our dead
and the thought that may be they know
our troubles ought to make life easier and
and better.  'Tis hard to leave this little 
spot but time is passing and one cannot
always mourn, so backward we turn stopping 
now and again where a familiar name meets
the eye nor must we pass on this day, the
grave of a dear brother whose death just 
twenty one years ago so shocked and
grieved us.  A bright happy lad of twelve
stricken to death with the weapon in his
 own hands.  The thought of his death
makes me long for a voice of thunder to
warn the youth and those who idly toy 
with fire arms.  A boy beloved by all who 
knew him, obedient, unselfish and gentle,
stricken without a moment's warning by
the accidental discharge of an old weapon
some boys had found, and thought this July
holiday a fitting time to make a noise and 
disturbance.  What a shock to his play-
mates who stood around him, what a shock
to his loved ones at home. Gone, yes gone
forever, no more sweet loved ones only in 
memory to meet you.  Your graves are a
shrine and to them we bring our offerings
of love, and unfold our sorrows and
thoughts and fancies and some times our
souls are better for coming where you rest.
Lessons and truths you teach us for we
mark the spot where one loved one lies,
who sacrificed his life that others might
live, and from over the sea his body was
brought to be laid by the side of his noble
mother, and now as we go there is a little
grave just newly made, the flowers scarcely
withered, a little suffering soul laid down
his cross, and found a sweet resting 
place. Good night, the shadows gather
fast and musings and dreamings must give
place to realities.  
