		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Father in Heaven has called
from our midst Sister Janet Dowdle who was al-
ways true and faithful in the performance of her
duties in our Society and had by meekness of
spirit won the respect and love of all who associ-
ated with her, we feel to express our love for her
in these few lines.
	Resolved, that as a sister, associate, and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow submis-
sively to the will of Him who doeth all things
well and say “Thy will, O, Lord not ours be
done.”
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and fol-
low in the example she set us that of being a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family and relatives;
that one copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, and a copy be entered on the record of
our Society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
	Dear Sister Janet we feel that you rest in peace
and that your work on earth is done and well
done; may we, like you, prove faithful in all
things and when we go hence receive the wel-
come plaudit, “Well done ”
			ELIZABETH TITENSOR Prest.
			Jane R. Biggs, Secretary.


IT is with sorrowing hearts we the members of
the Wallsburg Relief Society report the death of
Sister M. L. Comic Kerby. She departed this
life May 9th, 1893; Was born September 19th,
1823, on the Island of Jersey.
	She was baptized July 12th, 1849 by Elder
William C. Dunbar. Crossed the plains in a
hand cart company with her husband and four
children, was the mother of ten children, was a
faithful member of the Society from its organiza-
tion, treasurer thirteen years and always ready to
help. Her counsel was wise in temporal as well
as spiritual things. Her energies were alive to
the interest of the kingdom of God. She worked
diligently to get the genealogy of her dead.
Worked faithful until the last one had their work
done.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Wallsburg Relief Society do sincerely
sympathize with her bereaved husband and family
and farther be it resolved that we strive to emu-
late her noble example.
	Farewell Sister Mary: We must bid you a fond
adieu a crown of bright glory awaits you and
shouts of Hosannah on the other shore welcomed
you—and the assurance that your work here was
well done must be our consolation and that a
starry crown will be your reward.
			ESTHER DABLING,
			M. A. BATTY COUNSELORS.
			M. A. BURNS Assistant.
			LUCINDA M. BOREN, Secretary.


DIED on the 9th of May 1893, in Spanish Fork,
Utah Co, Utah, of pneumonia. Sister Margaret
Miller, the beloved wife of James Miller, aged
63 years 5 months and 11 days.
	Deceased was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in


the year 1830. Emigrated to Massachusetts in
1851, then to Salt Lake City in 1852, and was
there married to James Miller.
	She is the mother of six children all of whom
survive her: She has been a faithful wife and
mother, and an earnest worker in the Relief
Society, having held the positions of Teacher,
Counselor, and President.

	Resolved, That while we deplore her loss yet
we know that she was a faithful Latterday Saint
and has gone to receive the crown which has
been promised to the faithful ones, and that our
loss is her gain.
	Resolved, That we extend to the bereaved
family our heart felt sympathies. We feel to
strive to emulate her many virtues and her
patient and noble life.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these
resolutions to the bereaved family and that we
have them published in the Woman’s EXPONENT,
and the Spanish Fork Sun, and that they be 
spread upon the records of this association.

	No more can care and sorrow come,
		To grieve that gentle loving heart,
	For all thy earthly toils are done,
		And with thee we must part.
				BARBARA C. BANKS,
				SARAH M. BOYACK,
				LIZZIE A. HUTCHINSON,
	In behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork.


