EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is a matter of regret that we have not
space this time for Rural England but hope
we may be excused, as we have many in-
teresting local matters that cannot be laid
over.

	THE 16th of July was the seventieth
birthday of one of our veteran sisters and
co-laborers in the Women’s Associations in 
Zion, Mrs. Margaret Steele, President of
the Relief Society of the First Ward in this
City.  Sister Steele was early connected
with the Retrenchment  Association in
which she labored several years faithfully
and efficiently, and we ought also to men-
tion that she has been a diligent agent for
the EXPONENT from its first issue.  On her
anniversary last month she received some
valuable gifts and a letter from her brother
W. A. Farquhar member of the City Coun-
cil of Glasgow and also a shipping merchant.
We wish the dear old lady many happy
returns of the day with health, peace and
happiness to enjoy the blessings of her well-
spent life.

	WE have received by courtesy of the
author, Elder Edward Stevenson, a copy of
the “Reminiscences of Joseph the Prophet.”
A cut of the author and of the prophet
Joseph, also of the Hill Cumorah and of
the angel delivering the golden plates to
the boy Prophet, some of the characters, etc.
also of Liberty and Carthage jails are
given in the book and are quite natural.
Elder Stevenson was well-acquainted
with the prophet and has given an au-
thentic account of what he was personally
conversant with.Therefore the book is 
thoroughly reliable.  It is for sale cheap
and Brother Stevenson has given away
many copies, he has agents in many
parts of the Territory.  It will be of great
interest to those who are not acquainted
with the history of the early days, as
well as those familiar with the subject.

	IN consequence of Dr. E. R. Shipp’s
sojourn in the east, she has suspended her
Obstetric School for the past year.  But she
has now returned after a systematic review
both in theoretical and practical work in the
Michigan University and Hospital, ready
to resume her labors of love in training
women for the responsibilities of nurses
and accoucheurs.  In addition to her own
ability and experience as a teacher, a num-
ber of other leading physicians have con-
sented to give occasional lectures to the
students upon chosen subjects; thus giving

[Column 2]
variety to the exercises, and securing for
the searchers after truth accurate and
correct knowledge in Obstetrics, and the
latest most improved methods of nursing
the sick.  We are assured that every effort
will be made to give satisfaction, and adapt
prices to the stringency of the times,
special reductions being made to societies
sending students.  Those contemplating
this course of study would do well to
communicate with Dr. Shipp at No. 18
Main St.  Salt Lake City.

	THE Old Folks Day July 18, was
fraught with real pleasure to those who
participated in the excursion. The day was
fine, the cars were clean, and conductors
pleasant, and the Committee were never in
better spirits. The choir sang as sweetly
as on any former occasion and the lemonade
buns and sweetmeats were as plentiful as
ever.  It was indeed a GALA DAY.  The
Ogden people came out in full force to
escort the company to Lester Park where,
tents, flags, banners, music and tables or-
namented with beautiful flowers and loaded
with the best of everything to refresh the
dear old people, and tempt their appetites
was prepared, and awaiting their coming;
and they were willingly and gladly served
by the people from the several wards in and
near Ogden.  Exercises were held in the
pavilion, and the day was thoroughly en-
joyed by all, the very oldest people receiv-
ing the most attention and the heartiest
congratulations.  It is a beautiful tribute to
pay to age, and teaches a useful lesson to
the younger people of the community.
	BY invitation of Sister Lucy B. Young,
widow of the late President Brigham
Young several of the Young family and
other friends, assembled at her handsome
new brick residence on Centre street on
Monday July 10, to congratulate her and
also to be present at the dedication of this
new home recently built.  Among the
guests was President Joseph F. Smith
whom Sister Young desired should offer
the dedicatory prayer,  President Smith
kindly consenting.  The prayer was earnest
eloquent and somewhat pathetic. Congratu-
lations from the assembled guests were
fervent and sincere, and some delightful
piano music helped to while away the
evening hours, also songs from Mrs.
Young’s daughter Mabel, and we must not
forget to mention a delicious dinner which
all present heartily enjoyed.  Sister Young
very much regretted however the absence
of several brethren and sisters whom she
had expected to have as guests.  It was an
interesting time, and we with her many
friends sincerely wish she may live long to
enjoy the delights, the peace and the
happiness of her pleasant home and sur-
roundings.


