meeting when seven thousand people were
assembled, a party of about fifty men dis-
guised as Indians boarded the vessels,broke
open the three hundred and forty chests of
tea that composed the cargoes, and poured
the contents into the sea. Such was The
Boston Tea-Party. Parliament made haste
to find revenge and in March 1774 the
Boston Port Bill was passed by which no
kind of merchandise should any longer be
landed or shipped at the wharves of Bos-
ton. The assembly stood stoutly by the
cause of the people. When the news of
the Port Bill reached Virginia, the Bur-
gesses at once entered a protest on the
journals of the House. In September the
Second Colonial Congress assembled at
Philadelphia.
	Eleven colonies were represented. It
was unanimously agreed to sustain Massa-
chussets in her conflict with a wicked
ministry. Before adjournment a resolution
was adopted recommending the suspension
of all commercial intercourse with Great
Britian until the wrongs of the colonies
should be redressed.
	Parliament immediately ordered General
Gage,now governor of Massachusetts to re-
duce the colonies by force. A fleet and an
army of ten thousand soldiers were sent to
America to aid in the work of subjugation.
The general assembly was ordered disband-
ed but, instead of doing so the members
voted themselves into a Provincial Con-
gress and voted to equip an army of twelve
thousand men for the defence of the colony.
There was no longer any hope of peace.
The arm of Great Britain was stretched out
to smite and crush the sons of the Pilgrims.
The colonies were few and feeble but they
were men of iron wills who had made up
their minds to die for liberty. As soon as
the intentions of General Gage were mani-
fest the people made preparations for war.
John Hancock and Samuel Adams went
abroad encouraging the people. The first
battle was fought on the night of the 18th,
of April 1775. The British firing first
after ordering the rebels to disperse from
where they had gathered on the commons
at Lexington. They then pressed on to
Concord. The Americans on attempting
to enter the village met a company of
soldiers. Here for the first time the
Americans fired under orders of their
officers. The enemy began to retreat and
the battle was kept up for six miles along
the road toward Lexington, continuing
even to precincts of Charleston. At one
time it seemed as if the whole British force
would be compelled to surrender; such a
result was prevented only by the fear that
the fleet would burn the city. The Ameri-
can loss was forty-nine killed and thirty-
one wounded, and of the enemy two
hundred and seventy three. The battle of
Lexington fired the whole country. Within
a few days an army of twenty thousand
men had gathered about Boston. John
Stark of New Hampshire, Israel Putman
of Massachusetts Nathaniel Greene of
Rhode Island, Benedict Arnold of New
Haven, and Elnathan Allen of Vermont,
were the first grand, brave leaders of the
American Army. After Ticonderago and
Crown Point were taken. The British

[Column 3]
General Gage issued a proclamation brand-
ing those in arms as rebels and traitors,
and offering pardon to all who would sub-
mit, excepting Samuel Adams and John
Hancock, who were to suffer the penalty
of treason, but we all know how this was
recieved by the Americans. The next
conflict was the memorable, terrible, battle
of Bunker Hill, which took place on the
17th of June I775 in which the British
lost a thousand killed and fifty four wound-
ed. The Americans one hundred and
fifteen killed and three hundred wounded
and thirty two prisoners. Here the brave
Warren lost his life. The . people now de-
gan to talk of the United Colonies of
America. At Charlotte, North Carolina
the citizens in a hasty convention startled
the country by making a Declaration of
Independence. Immediately preceding
this the Colonial Congress reassembled at
Philadelphia where we first hear of Wash-
ington in the struggle for Independence,
with John Adams, and Samuel Adams,
Benjamin Franklin and Patrick Henry
were there, Jefferson came soon afterwards.
A last appeal was addressed to the king of
England. Early in the session John
Adams made a powerful address in which
he sketched the condition and wants of the
country, and of the army. The necessity
of appointing a Commander in Chief and
the qualities requisite in that high officer
were dwelt upon,and then the speaker con-
cluded by putting in nomination George
Washington of Virginia. As soon as his
name was mentioned Washington arose
and withdrew from the hall. He was
overpowered with the responsibility which
was about to be put upon him, and to his
friend Patrick Henry he said with tears in
his eyes “I fear that this will mark the
downfall of my reputation.” On the 15th,
of June the nomination was unanimously
sustained by Congress, and the man who
had saved the wreck of Braddock’s armies
in the French and Indian War, was called
to build a nation. With great dignity he
accepted the appointment, refusing all
compensation beyond his actual expense.
He reached Cambridge fifteen days after the
battle of Bunker Hill. The army was ar-
ranged in three divisions, the right under
General Ward held Roxbury, the left un-
der General Charles Lee rested at Prospect
Hill, the centre under the direction of the
Commander-in-chief lay at Cambridge.
The Americans looked to Canada for
sympathy and aid. It was believed that
the Canadians would make common cause
against Great Britain. So General Schuyl-
er and Montgomery were placed in com-
mand of a division, and sent to Canada.
Late in Autumn Colonel Benedict Arnold
took a thousand men and proceeded to-
ward Canada. It was a campaign of un-
told hardships. Morgan, Greene and
Meigs three noted leaders of the Revolu-
tion, and Aaron Burr, one day to become
Vice-President of the United States were
in this company of suffering heroes. This
expedition proved a failure. The Ameri-
cans were beaten back with the loss of the
great Montgomery besides many of the
army. At last came the king’s answer to
the appeal of Congress. It was such an
answer as George third and his ministers
always made to the petitioners for human
rights. The colonies were insulted and
spurned and their petition was treated with
contempt. The first thing necessary was
to disband the army and submit without


[Column 1]
conditions. By this tyrannical and offen-
sive answer the day of Independence was
brought nearer. By the middle of Febru-
ary the American army had increased to
fourteen thousand men and Washington
felt himself strong enough to assault the
enemy. Until May it had been hoped that
the difficulty with the Mother country
could be satisfactorily adjusted without
breaking allegiance to the British crown;
but after witnessing the terrible prepara-
tions for war made by Great Britain the
sentiment of disloyalty spread with
alarming rapidity; finally on the 7th of
June 1776, Richard Henry Lee of Virginia,
offered a resolution in Congress declaring
that the United Colonies are, and of right
ought to be free and Independent States,
that they are absolved from all allegiance
to the British crown, and that all political
connection between them and Great Britain
is and ought to be dissolved. Thomas Jef-
ferson was made chairman of a committee
to prepare a more elaborate and formal
declaration. The members were John
Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Roger Sher-
man and Robert B. Livingston. The
special work of preparing the paper was
given to Jefferson and Adams, the great
document was accordingly produced in
Jefferson’s hands with a few interlinings by
Adams and Franklin. The discussion was
continued for several days and at two p.m.
on the afternoon of that memorable day
the 4th of July, the Declaration of Ameri-
can Independence was adopted by unani-
mous vote.
	All day long the old bell man of the
State House had stood in the steeple ready
to sound the note of freedom to the city and
nation. As the hours went by he grew dis-
couraged and said, “they will never do
it,” just then a lad ran out and shouted at
the top of his voice “Ring! ring!” and the
aged veteran did ring as he had never rung
before; everywhere the Declaration was re-
ceived with enthusiasm.
	At Philadelphia the king’s arms
were torn down and burned in the street, at
Williamsburg, Charleston, and Savannah
there were bonfires and illuminations, at
Boston the Declaration was read in Fanuil
Hall while the cannon from Fort Hill and
Dorchester shook the city of the Puritans.
At New York the populace pulled down the
leaden statue of George third and cast it in-
to bullets. Washington received the mes-
sage with joy and ordered the declaration to
be read at the head of each brigade.
Former suffering and future peril were
alike forgotten in the general rejoicing. It
is impossible to give a detailed account of
the events of the great war with the suc-
cesses and reverses attending the grand,
brave men composing the army. But right
here let me say that many of Washington’s
reverses and defeats were brought about by
the stubbornness and disobedience of his in-
ferior officers. When destruction seemed
staring them in the face, France came to
the rescue. From the day that Baron
Stuben, a veteran soldier, and disciplina-
rian from the army of Frederick the Great
entered the army there was a marked im-
provement in the condition and discipline
of the soldiers. The American regulars
were never again beaten when confronted
by the British in equal numbers. In Nov-
ember 1776 Arthur Lee and Benjamin
Franklin were appointed by Congress to
negotiate an open treaty of friendship with
the French king. Now it was that the
genius of Dr. Franklin shone with a

[Column 2]
peculiar lustre. No nation ever had an
ambassador of greater wisdom and sagacity.
In 1778 a treaty was concluded when France
and the United States entered into relations
of reciprocal friendship. In America the
news of the new alliance was received with
great rejoicing; in England with vindictive
anger. In 1778 George third became will-
ing to treat with his American subjects.
Everything that the colonies claimed was
ceded. Commissioners were sent to America
but Congress informed them that nothing
but an express acknowledgement of the
independence of the United States would
now be accepted. In July of 1780 a French
squadron and six thousand land troops ar-
rived to aid the poor discouraged half-starv-
ed men of the American army. Washing-
ton and Rochambeau together planned for
future campaigns. In July 1780 the country
was shocked by the rumor that Benedict
Arnold had turned traitor, and the news
though hardly credible was true. The
brave, rash man who on behalf of the
patriot cause had suffered untold hardships,
and shed his blood on more fields than one,
had blotted the record of his heroism with a
deed of treason. Plans were laid for his
capture but he escaped the penalty, while
young Mr. Andre through whom the cor-
respondence had been kept up was taken
and executed. In the opening of the year
1781 the condition of the army was desper-
ate, no food, no pay, no clothing; but on
the 19th of October that same year through
the united efforts of the two great leaders,
Washington and Lafayette, Cornwallis the
great English general was taken, which
virtually ended the war of the Revolution.
When the news reached Philadelphia, the
members of Congress assembled and the
dispatch was read from Washington. The
members exulting and weeping for glad-
ness went in concourse with the citizens to
the Dutch Lutheran church and turned the
afternoon into a thanksgiving. The note
of rejoicing sounded through the length
and breadth of the land. On the 30th of
November 1782 articles of peace were agreed
to and signed on the part of Great Britian
by Oswald, and on behalf of the United
States by Franklin, Adams, Jay and
Laurens. In the following April the terms
were ratified by Congress, but it was not
until the 3rd of November 1783 that a
final treaty was effected between all the
nations that had been at war. On that day
the ambassadors of Holland, Spain
England, France and the United States, in
a solemn conference at Paris, agreed to and
signed the articles of a permanent peace.
The terms of the treaty of 1783 were brief-
ly these. A full and complete recognition
of the independence of the United States,
the recession by Great Britian of Florida to
Spain, the surrender of all the remaining
territory east of the Mississippi and the
lakes to the United States, the free navi-
gation of the Mississippi and the lake by
American vessels, the concession of mutual
rights in the Newfounland fisheries, and the
retention by Great Britian of Canada and
Nova Scotia with the exclusive control of
the St. Lawrence. Such in brief is the
history of the great struggle of the Ameri-
can colonies for independence.


