WOMAN’S SILVER MEETING.

	PURSUANT to a call for a mass meeting
published in the daily papers of this City
the meeting convened as per appointment
in the Salt Lake theatre Wednesday even-
ing July 26.  Long before the hour for
opening, crowds of people were waiting for
admittance, and when the doors were
thrown open the house was immediately
filled with eager, intelligent looking men
and women,though women largely predom-
inated.  The platform and boxes on each
side were handsomely draped with the stars
and stripes, and when the platform was
filled with the women of the Committee
[column 2]
﻿and their friends who came on by invitation
it presented quite a brilliant appearance.  A
large and elegant jar of long stemmed
hollyhocks and vases of sweet peas and
other flowers in season, added beauty and
attractiveness to the stage.
	Most of the Committee were without
hats or bonnets and wore lovely bouquets of
flowers.  It was not a dress parade occasion
however for the women were intent and
earnest as their countenances proved and
were only there for a noble purpose.
	Mrs. George A. Lowe Chairman of the
Committee who had signed the Call
tapped the table with her fan and signified
the house should come to order, by her re-
quest the orchestra Prof. Geo. Careless lead-
ing opened with inspiring music and the
audience were gratified.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was elected Chairman
and Mrs. Ellsworth Daggett, Secretary,  A
quartette composed of Mrs.  Seigel,  Mrs.
Woodrow,  Miss Jennings and Miss St.
John accompanied on the piano by Mrs.
T. J. Almy sang very effectively the song
“Hard times come again no more,’’ the
audience joining in the chorus.  Mrs. F. W.
Norris read very gracefully and in a clear
voice the the MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

To the Honorable Senators and Members of
	the House of Representatives:
	In the face of unparalleled disasters the
women of Utah, in mass meeting as-
sembled, appeal to your honorable bodies.
	We respectfully petition that at the ensuing
special session of Congress,   legislative
measures be adopted to increase the use of
silver as money and enhance the price of
silver bullion.  We do not assume to speak
of the theory which should be adopted or
the means which should be used to attain
these ends, but we speak from a knowledge
of the distress and business disaster which
have already fallen upon our territory and
this whole intermountain region from the
partial cessation of silver mining, and which
must increase when this industry is more
completely abandoned.  Silver mining is
almost the only source of revenue of this
whole intermountain region.  The miners
consume the agricultural products, laborers
and merchants are paid by the products of
our mines, and with the cessation of mining
there will be common and widespread dis-
aster.  Already hundreds of working
women as well as men, have lost situations,
thousands of skilled laborers have been dis-
charged from our mines and with no oc-
cupation and no capital, will soon have no
food for themselves or families.  A few
mine owners are still working their mines,
but with reduced force and wages, and with-
out profit, and this only to avoid the waste
and damage resulting to machinery and
mines from closing and stopping pumps;
even this work continues only because of
the hope that the price of silver may in-
crease so as to enable a resumption.  Unless
this advance of price comes soon the indus-
try must cease, and other thousands of
helpless laborers will be discharged.  If
this were only temporary, or affected only
one of our industries, we would bear up
bravely, but the foundation upon which
our entire business structure rests is silver
mining, and failure brings universal dis-
aster.  The people of the east are assured
that in these appeals we are not actuated
by selfish motives, or making a false cry
when asking that the bitter cup be turned
aside.  They, too, are also directly and in-
directly interested in our welfare not only


as citizens of a common country but in a
pecuniary way; our merchants buy of them
and obtain credit in proportion to the pros-
perity of our country.  
	Our railroads are built, our mines opened
and our improvements largely made on
credit.  Our railroad, state, territorial and
municipal bonds, our principal loans and
much of our mining stock are held in the
east, therefore they cannot ruin our one
great industry and inestimably lessen values
without damaging their own interests.
	The development of this country and the
investments in property here have been
undertaken and accomplished when the
laws of the country and the platforms of its
political parties pledged the nation to main-
tain the parity between gold and silver,
and gave investors the greatest pledge of
security in the world, and while we do not
understand why this pledge has failed, we
see and know the effects of its failure. We
are loyal women. With you we have an
intense affection and pride in our native
land, and we cannot believe that an appeal
which directly affects the happiness and
prosperity of the people of one-third of this
republic can be listened to with indifference
by you, and we most respectfully submit
our memorial.

	Telegrams of sympathy and encourage-
ment were received from Park City, Ogden,
Corinne, and Provo.
	The mandolin club of young girls ren-
dered a beautiful selection which was very
pleasing in effect and the audience applau-
ded until they were obliged to give an
encore.
	Dr. Ellen Gage and Mrs. Cornelia Pad-
dock made very effective and interesting
speeches and Miss Austin a professional
elecutionist read feelingly a poem entitled,
“The Silver Bells,” quite in keeping with
the sentiment of the meeting, it was heartily
applauded.  Mrs. Allen of Park City
daughter of Col. Ferry was the next
speaker and told much of the miner’s life
and hardships in a pathetic way; she also
gave clearly the condition as it now exists
in mining camps. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
who came to Utah in 1847, and knows
perhaps as much of this country as any
woman living, made some strong points on
home industries and our being self sustain-
ing, thought the people had done well in
keeping calm during the time of excite-
ment around us. A solo by Miss Jennings
“Tis our last plea for silver" etc., was
exquisitely rendered, also a song by Mrs.
Woodrow, “A miner’s plea for silver,” was
given in excellent taste and clear deep tones.
	A severe storm coming up caused
some of the speeches that had been pre-
pared to be passed over which was very
much regretted.  Mrs. Ryan and Mrs.
Nelden both ladies of special talent had
been expected to speak.  Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson gave a synopsis of her speech
which was a sort of review of the silver
question and history of trade and commerce
that would have been valuable to give in
full had there been time.
	During the meeting Mrs. W. F. James
moved that a copy of the memorial be sent
to Mrs. Frances Cleveland, the President’s
wife, the motion was seconded, was voted
upon and carried by the assembly.
	Altogether the meeting was a success
and it is hoped may be the means of en-
lightening the people in the East on the
silver question about which they seem
entirely in the dark.


