WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WAR OF THE REVOLUTION.
		[Concluded.]
	The importers entered into an agreement
to buy no more goods of Great Britian until
the Stamp Act should be repealed, and the
people cheerfully denied themselves all
imported luxuries. Great was the wrath of
the British government when the news of
these proceedings was borne across the
ocean, but a large part of the English man-
ufacturers sided with the colonies. Lord
Camden in the House of Lord’s spoke in
favor of colonial rights, and Mr. Pitt in the
House of Commons said, you have no right
to tax America. On the 18th of March
1766 the Stamp Act was formally repealed.
The joy in England and America was un-
bounded. But in June 1767 a new scheme
was formed for taxing America. An act
was passed imposing a duty on glass, paper,
painters colors, and tea; at the same time
suspending the powers of the general
assembly of New York, until that body
should vote certain supplies for the royal
troops stationed within the province. A
more rash and disastrous piece of legislation
never was enacted. All the smothered
resentment of the colonies burst out anew.
Another agreement not to purchase goods
of Great Britian was immediately entered
into. Soon after a sloop charged with
attempting to evade the payment of duty
was seized by custom house officers, which
caused the people to rise in a mob. The
governors appealed to the ministers for
help, and General Gage commander in chief
of the British forces in America, was
ordered to bring from Halifax a regiment of
regulars and over awe the people. On the
first of October, the troops seven hundred
strong marched with fixed bayonets
into the Capital of Massachusetts, which
maddened the people, and when the gover-
nor required the selectman to provide
quarters for the soldiers, he was met by an
absolute refusal. The people were declared
rebels, but met this also with resolute de-
fiance. In 1770 a serious affray occured in
New York, caused by the soldiers cutting
down a liberty pole. In March a more
serious one occurred in Boston in which
three citizens were shot down and several
wounded. This outrage known as the
Boston massacre created a profound sensa-
tion, the city was ablaze with excitement.
The brave Samuel Adams spoke for the
people. On the day of the Boston massacre
Lord Worth prime minister, secured the
passage by Parliament of an act repealing
all the duties on American imports except-
ing that on tea. The people at once agreed
not to buy nor use tea. In 1773 the minis-
ters attempted to enforce the tea tax, by a

[Column 2]
stratagem. Ships were loaded with tea for
the American market, at Charleston the
tea was landed but the people forbade its
sale. At New York and Philadelphia the
ships were forbidden to enter the ports.
And finally on the evening of a great town
