[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Bernard]
Bernard P. Brockbank Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve N October 6, 1962, at the () 132d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, Elder Bernard P. Brockbank was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve to fill the vacancy occasioned by the appointment of Elder Nathan Eldon 'Tanner to membership in the Council of the Twelve. Elder Brockbank has been a devoted and successful mission president for two years, serving first as president of the North British Mission, and later as president of the Scottish Mission. He recently conducted the session at which the new Glasgow Stake was formed by President McKay and Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner, in the native land of the paternal ancestors of President McKay. Elder Brockbank was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 24, 1909, the son of 'Taylor P. Brockbank and Sarah LeCheminant Brockbank. He graduated from Granite High School and attended the University of Utah and George Washington University, majoring in business studies. He has been a prominent business man, builder, and contractor in Salt Lake City and has contributed much to Civic improvement and community activities. Before his appointment as President of Holladay Stake in May 1959, he had served as a counselor in two Guttenberg, Ltd. Manchester, England ELDER BERNARD P. BROCKBANK bishoprics, as bishop of the Winder Ward, and as a high councilman in both the Big Cottonwood and Holladay Stakes. He filled a mission to Great Britain in 1929-30, during which he was president of the Leeds District. Elder Brockbank was married to Nada Rich of Logan, Utah, November 11, 1935, in Washington, D. C. The marriage was later solemnized in the Logan Temple. They are the parents of six children: Loren Rich, 885 ELDER AND SISTER BERNARD P. BROCKBANK AND FAMILY Center: Nada Rich Brockbank and Elder Bernard P. Brockbank. Standing, left to right: Von R.; Roger R.; Diane; and Bruce. This picture was taken in 1960 at the time Elder Brockbank was called to preside over the North British Mission. 'Two other sons, Loren Rich, and Bernard Park, Jr., are not in the picture. Bernard Park, Jr., Diane, Bruce, Von, and Roger. In concluding the address which he gave upon the acceptance of his new calling, Elder Brockbank spoke of his gratitude for the opportunity 386 to serve the Church and to be a witness to the restoration of the gospel: J pray for the ability and inspiration to serve the Lord and my fellow men. I am thankful for the atonement of our Savior Jesus Christ and for the principle of repentance The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1962 Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer N a beautiful autumn setting, Relief Society workers from all over the world assembled in the historic 'Tabernacle on 'Temple Square in Salt Lake City and received inspiration, instruction, and renewed enthusiasm for the work through the sessions of the Relief Society Annual General Conference held 6n Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4, 1962. The universality of the organization was strongly felt through the presence of leaders from such faraway places as Samoa, Australia, England, the European Continent, and South Africa, and when, for the first time in a Relief Society Conference, translating facilities and special interpreters were used to convey the messages of the conference to German and Spanish-speaking sisters in attendance from newly created Stakes in Germany, Switzerland, and Mexico. A total of 2,997 stake and mission officers from 344 stakes and 16 missions attended the opening session, the Officers Meeting, on Wednesday morning. All sessions of the conference were conducted by President Belle S. Spafford with her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen and the thirty-three other members of the General Board in attendance. Stirring and inspirational messages were given in the opening session by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen, the Relief Society advisors from the Council of The Twelve. Each stressed the need for mothers in the Church to teach and set proper examples of modesty in dress and purity in thought. President Smith admonished the women of the Church to make their children aware of the pitfalls and dangers of living in this wicked world and to deplore the tendency to imitate the fashions of the world. Elder Petersen declared that "If the women of the Church would practice the kind of virtue the Lord speaks of, they could change this situation," and thus protect the virtue of their young people with a shield of integrity. In her Report and Official Instructions President Spafford told of the 887 888 outstanding increase of 17,000 Relief Society members during 1961, and the magnitude of the services and accomplishments of Relief Societies throughout the world as revealed in the annual reports. She also gave pertinent instruction relative to various phases of the work, stated new policies related to record keeping, and cited examples of the blessings and development that come through service and affiliation with Relief Society. The music for the opening session was provided by a_ well-trained chorus of Singing Mothers from the South Sanpete Stake under the direction of Bly M. Beal, with Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ. HE Wednesday afternoon meeting was a general session for Relief Society members and the general public. All in attendance were deeply touched and inspired through the presence in that session of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay, who was the principal speaker. He appealed for greater parental guidance and training in the homes, in having prayer and instilling faith in the hearts of children, and in the development of strong characters. He declared that "Never before was there such need of revitalizing the teaching of faith and repentance on the part of parents. Never before in the history of our country was the state in greater need of young men and young women who cherish the higher life in preference to the sordid, the selfish, and the obscene." President Spafford and her counselors and Sister Charlotte A. Larsen of the General Board also RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 spoke in this session. President Spafford urged mothers to train and fortify their children for rich, serviceable lives by teaching them to study the standard works of the Church. She said parents should "train children in the use of the scriptures, for the Lord has made clear that it is the duty of parents to see that children are reared in light and in truth.' Counselor Sharp told of the greatest function of Relief Society through its entire program to build testimony in the lives of its members. Counselor Madsen emphasized the tremendous influence for good that can be exerted by women of the Church when they are unified in feeling and purpose, seeking power from our Heavenly Father in righteousness. Sister Larsen stressed the importance of keeping all of the Lord's commandments and the blessings that are realized through doing so. Under the baton of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, with Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ, a chorus of 450 Singing Mothers inspired those in attendance through the music it provided in the general session. 'The participants in the chorus were from the American Falls, Bannock, East Pocatello, Idaho, North Pocatello, Pocatello, Portneuf, West Pocatello, Blaine, Burley, Cassia, Gooding, Minidoka, Raft River and Twin Falls Stakes. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 Relief Society stake and mission leaders were warmly greeted by members.