[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
|e  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
DECEMBER  1962 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE       Marianne    C.    Sharp    Editor 
Vesta   P.    Crawford    Associate  Editor  Belle    S.    Spafford     General  Manager 
SPECIAL  FEATURES 
Parental   Responsibility   
 David   O.    McKay  876 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  Appointed  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve     882 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank  Appointed  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve     885 
The  Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference    Hulda  Parker  887 
The  Breath  of  Life  —  National  Tuberculosis  Association    James  E.  Perkins  903 
nCTION 
Christmas   With  Auntie   
 Helen   H.    Trutton  890 
One  Little  Christmas  Gift   
 Sylvia   Probst  Young  898 
Out  of  the  Wilderness  —  Chapter  6  
 Shirley  Thulin  921 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
From   Near  and  Far    874 
Sixty   Years    Ago   
  904 
Woman's   Sphere    
 Ramona    W.    Cannon  905 
Editorials:  The    132d    Semi-Annual    Conference       906 
Christmas  in  the  Home    Vesta  P.  Crawford  908 
Birthday    Congratulations    
  952 
FEATURES  FOR  THE  HOME 
A  Christmas  Eve  Family  Party  
 Lorraine  Hyde   Clawson  909 
Handiwork    for   Christmas   
 Adele    Williams   Worsley  912 
Easy  Christmas   Cookies  
 Myrtle   E.   Henderson  918 
Cora  E.   Cook  —  Specialist  in  Household  Handicraft     920 
LESSONS  FOR  FEBRUARY 
Theology  —  The  Waters  and  the  Land  
 Roy  W.   Doxey  926 
Visiting  Teacher  Messages  —  "He  Who  Has  Repented  of  His  Sins" 
  Christine    H.    Robinson  931 
Work  Meeting  —  The  Latter-day  Saint  Home  Is  Clean   (Part  II)   
 Virginia  F.   Cutler  933 
Literature  —  Herman  Melville  
 Briant   S.    Jacobs  935 
Social  Science  —  Application  of  the  Law  in  the  Dispensations  of  Man    Ariel  S.  Ballif  942 
POETRY 
When  Day  Is  Done  —  Frontispiece   
 Alice   Morrey   Bailey  874 
What  Is  Christmas,  by  Mabel  Jones  Gabbott,  881;  The  Pheasant,  by  Gladys  Hesser  Burnham, 
884;  The  Street  You'd  Love  to  Live  On,  by  Helen  F.  Parker,  896;  Words  After  Snow,  by  Ida 
Elaine  James,  897;  WhistUng  Carols,  by  Evelyn  Fjeldsted,  903;  Room  With  the  Red  Woodbox, 
by  Maude  Rubin,  917;  The  Fog,  by  Linnie  F.  Robinson,  917;  Seagulls,  by  Ida  Isaacson,  920*; 
Where  Are  the  Nine?  by  Hazel  Loomis,  925;  Plea,  by  Betty  G.  Spencer,  948;  Thoughts,  by 
Catherine  B.   Bowles,  952. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1962  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah:  Phone  EMpire  4-2511; 
Subscriptions  246;  Eiditorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year ; 
20c  a  copy ;  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back 
numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of 
address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
875

Parental  Responsibility 
President  David  O.  McKay 
[Address  Delivered  by  President  David  O.  McKay  at  the  Relief  Society  Annual  General 
Conference,  October  3,  1962] 
SISTER  Spafford  and  Counsel- 
ors, members  of  the  Relief 
Society  General  Board,  repre- 
sentatives from  Relief  Societies 
throughout  the  world,  sisters  and 
brethren,  while  listening  to  the  ex- 
cellent addresses  delivered  by  Sister 
Larsen  and  the  three  members  of  the 
Presidency  of  Relief  Society,  I  have 
been  deeply  impressed  with  the 
thought  that  this  is  one  of  the  most 
significant  gatherings  in  all  the 
world.     In  the  first  place,  in   this 
876 
audience  filling  this  historic  Taber- 
nacle to  overflowing,  is  gathered  one 
of  the  largest  assemblies  of  women 
in  the  world.  In  the  second  place, 
you  are  honored  by  being  presided 
over  by  three  of  the  greatest  women 
in  the  world,  and  I  choose  my  words 
advisedly. 
Next,  the  motive  of  this  gathering 
is  the  noblest,  because  you  have  in 
your  hearts  the  desire,  the  purpose 
of  teaching  your  children,  teenagers, 
and    adults,    the    gospel    of    Jesus

PARENTAL  RESPONSIBILITY 
877 
Christ,  the  greatest  message  in  all 
the  world.  And  today  you  have  met 
together  for  the  first  time  since  the 
Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States 
has  re-emphasized  or  has  passed  on 
the  rule  of  re-emphasizing  your  di- 
vine obligation  to  teach  the  word  of 
the  Lord  to  your  children.  Since 
you  last  held  a  conference  of  this 
kind,  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
United  States  has  made  it  unpatri- 
otic for  public  schools  to  teach  your 
children  to  pray.  So,  I  think  we  are 
meeting  on  a  most  important  oc- 
casion. What  I  said  about  the  great- 
ness of  this  audience  I  apply  to  the 
membership  of  the  Relief  Society 
in  all  the  world.  What  I  said  about 
your  Presidency  I  have  also  said  to 
others  outside  the  confines  of  the 
Church  organization  itself.  And 
now  in  what  I  am  going  to  say,  I 
desire  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  to 
re-emphasize  the  responsibility  of 
this  body  of  Relief  Society  mem- 
bers to  save  souls  as  one  of  the  obli- 
gations placed  upon  you  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  himself. 
I  should  like  to  make  a  plea  to 
you  this  afternoon  to  teach  your 
children  and  others  out  of  the 
books  of  the  Church,  the  way  to 
life  and  salvation  —  a  plea  for  more 
parental  responsibility. 
As  a  preface  to  the  message  I  feel 
impressed  to  emphasize,  I  shall 
make  brief  reference  to  some  facts 
and  educational  trends  in  early 
United  States  history. 
In  1850,  the  character  and  culture 
of  the  American  people  commanded 
the  respect  of  the  entire  world. 
European  parents  sent  their  sons  and 
daughters  to  our  institutions  that 
they  might  imbibe  this  faith-inspir- 
ing atmosphere.    The  Sabbath  was 
nationally  recognized  and  observed. 
The  churches  were  well  attended. 
Divorces  were  rare. 
Today,  according  to  the  latest  fig- 
ures available,  lawlessness  is  on  the 
increase,  the  cost  of  crime  at  all 
levels  in  the  United  States  is  $22 
billion,  over  $4  billion  more  than  is 
spent  for  education.  It  represents  a 
cost  of  $128  last  year  for  every  per- 
son in  the  United  States. 
The  crime  rate  has  increased  thir- 
ty-four per  cent  in  the  past  five 
years,  while  the  population  has  in- 
creased seven  per  cent.  In  other 
words,  the  rate  of  growth  of  crime 
outstrips  the  rate  of  growth  of  the 
population  by  nearly  five  to  one. 
Sisters,  what  has  happened  to 
change  this  Christian  concord  of 
1850  into  this  criminal  chaos  of 
1962? 
/^NE  hundred  years  ago,  Ameri- 
cans were  still  being  reared  in 
public  schools  which  included  re- 
ligious instruction.  The  great  New 
England  Piimeiy  which  for  more 
than  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  had 
been  the  textbook  of  the  American 
schools,  was  just  passing  into  dis- 
card. Eighty-seven  per  cent  of  the 
contents  of  this  remarkable  book, 
which  had  built  the  sturdy  charac- 
ter of  fathers,  grandfathers,  and 
great-grandfathers  was  the  Bible. 
But  from  that  time  on,  the  Book  of 
books  ceased  to  be  an  important 
factor  in  public  instruction. 
The  lawmakers  in  Washington 
were  intent,  and  commendably  so, 
to  make  effective  the  First  Amend- 
ment to  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  which  says:  ''Con- 
gress shall  make  no  law  respecting 
an  establishment  of  religion,  or  pro-