[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Nathan]
Nathan Eldon Tanner Appointed to the Council of the Twelve ELDER NATHAN ELDON TANNER was sustained as an apostle and member of the Council of the Twelve of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at the Saturday afternoon session of the 132d Semi-Annual Conference, October 6, 1962. 'This appointment fills the vacancy in the Council occasioned by the death, in May 1962, of Elder George OQ. Mornis. Elder 'Tanner brings to his new and sacred calling humility and a sense of purpose, as well as comBves Nathan Eldon Tanner 882 petency and inspiration that mark him as an outstanding servant of the Church. 'Two years ago he was called to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, and for the past eighteen months he has pre sided over all the missions of Western Europe, with headquarters near London, England. "Few men are chosen for high office in the Church who have a richer heritage and more varied background of training and experience than Nathan Eldon Tanner" — so wrote President Hugh B. Brown for The Relief Society Magazine, when Elder Tanner was appointed an Assistant to the 'Twelve. He is of the sixth generation of Latter-day Saints on both sides of his family inheritance. His greatgrandfather John Tanner was an associate of the Prophet Joseph Smith in Zion's Camp and in Nauvoo, Illinois. His great-grandfather on his mother's side of the family, James S. Brown, was a_ soldier in the Mormon Battalion and a noble and honored pioneer. Elder Tanner was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 9, 1898, and three years later went to Canada with his patents, Nathan W. And Sarah Edna Brown Tanner. In 1919 he was graduated from the Alberta Normal a ELDER AND SISTER NATHAN ELDON TANNER AND FAMILY % Seated in front: Sara Isabelle Merrill 'Tanner; Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner. Back row, standing, left to right: Mrs. W. S. Jensen (Isabelle); Mrs. C. R. Walker (Ruth); Mrs. H. S. Rhodes (Zola); Mrs. G. L. Spackman (Beth); Mrs. L. Williams (Helen). School. Later in the same year, he married Sara Isabelle Merrill of Hill Spring, Alberta, in the temple at Cardston. 'They are the parents of five lovely daughters: Ruth (Mrs. C. R. Walker); Isabelle (Mrs. W. S. Jensen); Zola (Mrs. H. S. Rhodes); Beth (Mrs. G. L. Spackman); and Helen (Mrs. L. Williams). 'There are twenty-three living grandchildren and two deceased. Elder 'Tanner's distinguished career in the field of education began with his appointment as a teacher in Hill Spring, where he added to his small teaching income by operating a store and doing farm chores. Later, he became principal of the Cardston Public School. He was elected to the Alberta Legislature in 1935. After serving as speaker in the legislature, he became a member of the provincial cabinet as Mu£nister of Lands and Mines. In this capacity he was influential in determining the provincial policy for regulating and encouraging oil and gas production in Alberta. He was appointed chairman of the Alberta Research Council in 1942, and became provincial Boy Scout Commissioner in 1946. He has been president of the Merrill Petroleums Ltd., a director of the Toronto Dominion Bank, and many other business organizations. In 1956 Elder 'Tanner was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the Brigham Young 883 884 University. At the time of his call to be an Assistant to the Council of the 'Twelve, he was serving as a member of the Board of Governors of the University of Alberta. LDER Tanner's Church activity began in his early years, and after serving as an officer in various auxiliaries, he became bishop of the Cardston First Ward in 1932, where he had previously served as a counselor. He also served as a member of the High Council of Alberta Stake. In 1938, after moving to Edmonton, he became president of that branch, where he was instrumental in building the first chapel in Edmonton, and the seminary building at the University of Alberta. At the organization of Calgary Stake in 1953, he became president and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 served in that position until the time of his call to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve in 1960. During his presidency the commodious and impressive Calgary Stake Center was built. In accepting his call as a member of the Council of the Twelve, Elder 'Tanner fervently expressed his testimony of the gospel: I want to bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that if every member of the Church would accept the call of our prophet today and live the gospel and keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father and become missionaries in very deed, we could contribute more to the cause of peace than all the power that might be gathered together by all the governments and all the men in uniform. May we prove worthy of our membership in the Church and Kingdom of God is my prayer.