[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 32 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

Thank you for the July and August issues of The Relief Society Magazine with their fne articles on Henry David Thoreau. I have not only read them with a great deal of interest and delight, but I shall make notice of them in the next issue of the Thoreau Bulletin and then place them in my permanent 'Thoreau files (Literature Lessons 33 and 34 by Briant S. Jacobs). —Walter Harding Secretary The Thoreau Society Geneseo, New York

The article "A Permanent Home," by Norma Dee Ryan, in the October issue of the Magazine expresses my thoughts exactly. All my life I have worked for security, but there is no security anymore, except in the Church. The Church is a great shield and protector in_ these troubled times. We who belong to it are lucky and blessed. —Flizabeth C. McCnmmon Seal Beach, California

Before coming on my mission to Japan, I was always anxious to read the fiction stories in the Magazine. Since coming on my mission I have learned to appreciate the priceless value of all the articles, as well as the stories. The Magazine is such a help in strengthening our testimonies, better enabling us to encourage Relief Society work here. J am looking forward to the time when I will be able to use the homemaking suggestions in my own home. —Carol A. Smith Tokyo, Japan

Thank you for publishing many new writers in the Magazine. In the past issues I have noticed many names that I did not recognize. Naturally, I like the work of the writers who appear over and over, but I also know the thrill of having something accepted for the first time. —Clara Laster Tulsa, Oklahoma

May I say a few words of praise for the poem series "Portrait of Freedom," by Alberta Huish Christensen, in the September issue of the Magazine — beautifully, powerfully done, such a fine look of "'Americaward." —Shirley Howard Cedar City, Utah

I wish to express appreciation for the Magazine. The stories and lessons are so helpful and thought provoking. In New Zealand, the social science lessons have had an added meaning, as we remember President and Sister Ariel S. Ballif, and the things they taught us while presiding in New Zealand. _—Mrs. Muriel Kehoe Maromaku, New Zealand

The September issue of the Magazine was so beautiful I just had to tell you. I think it is the most artistic of any so far. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho

I would like to compliment you on The Relief Society Magazine. It is tremendous. I obtained a copy from one of my fellow missionaries, and was glancing through it to see if there was anything good to read. The stories are really interesting. They give me a_ greater understanding of the roblems of running a home and what my mother had to go through. It is wonderful that the women of the Church have such a high class Magazine to read. —Elder Ned E. Sweat Coleraine, Ireland

The Relief Society Magazine is a welcome part of my mail. I especially enjoyed the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). It had all the sparkle and adventure to make it a memorable story. —Barbara Wahlquist Provo, Utah