[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Out of | Author: Thulin]
[Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 6 Shirley Thulin]

When we came back, Mama brought out a half dollar she had been carefully saving. "Polly," she said, "you can go to Van Wagoner's and get some peanuts — two pounds, and the rest in hardtack candy." My feet fairly flew along the glistening white road. I was thinking of the precious little doll that I wanted so much. The two nickels RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 were safe with the fifty cents in Mama's brown handbag that she had let me carry. There weren't many toys left in Van Wagoner's window now, and for a moment my heart sank, but then I saw it — one little doll still standing there. Mr. Van Wagoner was a round, jolly man with twinkling eyes. I thought he looked like Santa Claus' brother. He smiled at me when I came into the store, but he was busy showing outing flannel to Mrs. Christy, so I just wandered around looking at things. There was everything you could think of in that store from barn lanterns to penny candy. Usually I liked to look at the fancy trinkets in the showcases, but today I had eyes for a doll only. Then I saw it — a red bandana handkerchief in the window, right beside my precious doll, funny, I hadn't noticed it before. For some reason I thought of Papa then with the white frost covering his moustache. Papa had been sick with I pneumonia for a long time. It had only been the last two weeks that he had been out on his milk route again, and it worried Mama so much to have him out in this zero weather. "I should buy him a scarf of some kind to cover his face," she had said anxiously. Right then I had an idea — that bandana handkerchief would make a fine face scarf. I tried to turn my attention back to the doll, but thoughts of Papa and the handkerchief persisted. Papa — just thinking about him made my heart warm. Mr. Van Wagoner came to wait on me then. While he weighed out the candy and peanuts ONE LITTLE CHRISTMAS GIFT I was thinking of the first Christmas, and about giving gifts. Mama had always said that only the people who sacrificed to give really knew the meaning of giving. "Can I get anything else for you, Polly?" Mr. Van Wagoner asked, as he turned from the scales and held out a piece of peanut brittle to me. "The red bandana in the window — how much is it Mr. Van Wagoner?"' "Oh, that?" He took out a box from under the counter. "A lot of them in here," he said, lifting the lid, "and they're just ten cents each. Bet you're thinking of a present for your Papa." I nodded. 'My Papa," I told him, "needs something to cover his face on a cold morning. He hasn't a scarf. And I have ten cents that I earned myself." "Well now, isn't that nice?" Mr. Van Wagoner approved. "Not every man gets a present from his daughfer." "I think I'd like to buy one," I heard myself saying. Mr. Van Wagoner beamed. "I'll wrap it up. Let's see." He disappeared into the back room for a minute, and returned with a small piece of green tissue paper and a length of red twine. "Em going to make your Papa's present look really festive," he said. With wide eyes I watched him, and when he handed it to me I thought that I had never seen a package that looked so beautiful. Thanking Mr. Van Wagoner, I turned and went out of the store, but I didn't trust my eyes to look at the window where the little doll was still standing. 901 Mama didn't mention the doll when I got home, she was so busy I guess that she forgot, and I was glad because I wanted Papa's present to be a surprise to everyone. Johnny had made a stand for the tree, and he had brought it into the house. "Let's decorate it now," cried. So Mama let us start with the apples and popcorn strings. When we had finished decorating it, our Christmas tree was an unforgettable sight, with ropes of popcorn and rose berries, apples, bright red, and cookies cut in all sorts of shapes. Mama put the candles on and promised that we could light them for a few minutes before we went to bed. When supper dishes were done we gathered around the organ and, while Mama played, we sang "Silent Night," and "Away in a Manger," and all the other carols we knew. Susie HEN it was time to light the Christmas tree, and we watched in breathless wonder as one tiny hight after another flickered into view. When the last candle was lighted Papa blew out the lamp, and the wonderful Christmas tree stood glowing in the darkened room. All too soon it was time for bed. I watched for a chance, and when no one was looking, I laid Papa's present under the tree. Then I went to bed with my wonderful secret making me feel warm and happy inside. In the early Christmas dawn we trouped downstairs to see what Santa Claus had left. My old doll, Samantha, and Susie's Mary Jane were sitting proudly under the tree all dressed up in new clothes. The 902 clothes almost made the dolls look new, too. 'There was a harmonica for Johnny, and some _ building blocks for little Tim. And, wonder of wonders, somehow Santa had managed to leave a pearl necklace for Susie and a blue bracelet for me. Papa and Mama stood by smiling at our exclamations of delight. But when everything else had been examined, one little gift was still under the tree. "Papa," I said, "you forgot one present, there under the tree." "Well, so I did," he exclaimed, stooping down to pick it up. "I wonder whom this is for?" "It's for you," I said quickly, remembering that I had forgotten to write his name on it. With starry eyes I watched as he untied the red string. The whole family was watching, too. And Mama looked at me and gave me such a wonderful, sweet kind of smile that I knew I would never forget it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 As Papa held up the red bandana, his voice got kind of chokey. "Polly," he said, "it's the nicest Christmas gift I've ever had in my whole life." "It will make a perfect scarf for your face on these cold mornings," Mama told him, and she tied it around his face to show us. My heart was singing, I hadn't known until then just how wonderful it was to be a giver. I was proud and happy, happier than I had ever been on any Christmas before. I think I knew a little how the Judean hill folks felt when they brought presents to the manger on that first Christmas morning. Later, when I was helping Mama clear up the breakfast dishes, she looked at me with glowing eyes. "Polly," she said wisely, "you have made your Papa and me so happy and proud, and this is the Christmas you will remember the longest, for today you have learned what Christmas really means." New Serial to Begin in January new serial "Keep My Own," by Kit Linford, will begin in the January 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story narrates the adjustments and sacrifices by which a young bride, Irene Spencer, strives to integrate herself into her husband's family. Her ideal is a pattern of love and unity, which requires a mature devotion and the giving up of many treasures. The Breath of Life James E. Perkins, M. D., Managing Director National Tuberculosis Association T has been said, "It is a woman's world" and also "The hand that rocks the cradle shapes the earth." These two eloquently phrased thoughts are oft repeated and hence must hold the important element of truth. It is then to the women, the guardians of the family health, we would like to bring our short message. Along with our battle against TB, we should remember two more letters — "RD." RD stands for Respiratory Diseases. RD has for so long complicated and cost us many battles with Tuberculosis. Anything that damages lungs or hinders breathing must be of concern to your local TB Associations across the country. How many mothers have been awakened in the still, dark hours of the night to hear the gasping struggle to breathe and cry of a child suffering from Asthma? Bronchitis, Pneumonia, Emphysema, Influenza, Pleurisy, and even the Common Cold can be helped by the expanded research program financed by Christmas Seals. Won't you add Christmas Seals to all your holiday mail? Join us in our quest to save lives and ease human suffering. Support your local Tuberculosis Association by keeping and using the 1962 Christmas Seals.