[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Cutler]
WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 6 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part II) Dr. Virginia F', Cutler For Second Meeting, March 1963 Objective: the soul. Semserenee —_— OME of the best home managers today say that they have completely given up the annual and semi-annual housecleaning and that they are now organizing their time so that they get the cleaning done as they go along, and there is never the great disruption of the household by having the entire place torn apart all at one time. Some extra jobs are worked into each week's schedule, such as washing down the bathroom walls, cleaning out the bookcases, straightening the dresser drawers, or washing some of the woodwork. In this way, the home is always in good condition, and there is no serious disruption of family activity. Two pieces of equipment that are a boon to the modern homemaker in keeping her home and its occupants clean are a vacuum cleaner and a washing machine. The vacuum picks up dirt, does the dusting, and gets the dirt out of the house instead of scattering it around, and the washing machine saves much time and energy in keeping clothes and household linens clean. Check the consumer reports in your library before making purchases of these two pieces of equipment and make sure that what you buy is best suited for your purposes. 'Then if you want the investment to pay off, study the instruction manuals and _ follow them exactly. Give tender, loving care to these two good servants, and they will give many years of service. Today is our day for three tell shows. Each person assigned to a show may use material from what follows and add anything else that her reading and experience dictate. Each must limit her show to five minutes. Tell Show — How to Clean Floors Since ninety-three per cent of the dirt in your home collects on the floor, regular daily, weekly, and monthly care is important to keep your home in good condition. 933 934 Daily: Sweep linoleum and _ tile carefully. Wipe up spots. Use roller-broom on rugs and carpets or, if there is much traffic, use vacuum cleaner. Clean spots. Weekly oz when necessary: Damp mop linoleum or tile using light suds or clear water. Vacuum rugs and carpets. Monthly or oftener: Use self-polishing wax on linoleum and tile after damp mop. Annually: Use absorbent rug cleaning powder on rugs, and vacuum, or hire a professional rug cleaner. 'Tips on using vacuum: count to six slowly as you push vacuum slowly forward and count to six slowly as you bring vacuum back. 'The machine will do the best work if given time to draw in dirt. Clean vacuum brushes after each use. Tell Show — How to Clean Upholstered Furniture Daily: Remove spots. Sugar spots can be removed with clear water. Grease spots can be removed with a commercial cleaner. (Test anything you do on an inconspicuous place before doing complete job.) In cleaning spots, work from outside of spot toward center. Weekly: Use vacuum upholstery attachment or brush and dust thoroughly. If cushions are made of down, do not vacuum, but fluff up and air in the sun. Turn reversible cushions. Annually: Dry scrub. Put % cup of pure white soap flakes and I tablespoon of ammonia into 2 cups of boiling water and let cool. Then beat vigorously with rotary egg beater until the bowl is filled with suds. With a soft brush, use some suds and work over an eight-inch square of fabric. With a soft cloth wrung lightly out of clean warm water, wipe off suds and if the fabric has a pile, smooth fabric in the direction of the pile. Continue until all the fabric has been cleaned. 'Try to prevent the fabric from absorbing much moisture. Dry for twenty-four hours before using. 'There are good commercial cleaners on the market, if you do not wish to make your own. Tell Show — How to Clean Metals Metals are the magic elements that give sparkle to a home. If they are not clean and bright, they should be hidden from sight, for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 there isn't anything which so quickly gives the status of the managerial ability of a homemaker as the condition of her metals. Daily: Wash pots and pans in sudsy water and keep aluminum bright by using a_ stainless steel wool soap pad. Clean copper with hot vinegar and salt. Wipe enamel surfaces of range and refrigerator; wipe and shine chromium. Weekly: Remove tarnish from tips of silver forks and spoons by dipping them into an old aluminum pan which contains 2 cups of boiling water, % teaspoon salt, and % teaspoon soda. Commercial polish takes more time, but it is recommended for more thorough all-over polishing. Use a_ treated silver polishing cloth to shine ornamental pieces. Polish brass by using commercial polish; let dry, rub with a soft cloth, and finish with a chamois. Lacquered brass needs only a dusting and occasional washing. Clean all parts of your range. Ammonia in the water helps. Put aluminum foil under electric burners to catch the drip and replace as needed.! Ways to Make Cleaning Easy 1. Get your daily exercise as you make the best use of your body. Use your leg muscles instead of back muscles when bending and when lifting objects. Imagine that you have a third leg to sit on as you bend your knees; keep your back straight. 2. Save energy for time with your family. It takes six times as much energy to go upstairs as it takes to. Walk the same distance on the level; plan your trips up and down; have duplicate cleaning materials where needed. It takes three times as much energy to stand as to sit; try ironing sitting down and do as many jobs as possible while seated. 3. Use the best tools and cleaning agents for the job. Try long handled mops and brushes for floors, walls, and bathtubs; cellulose spong- I LESSON DEPARTMENT es for wipe-up jobs; carts on wheels for moving equipment and supplies; vacuum attachments for brushing walls and dusting furniture and draperies; commercial products, such as disposable dusting paper, self-polishing wax, and cleaning agents that require no rinsing. 4. Plan your cleaning jobs and arrange a work schedule. Spread out the hardest jobs to avoid peaks of overwork. 5. Prevent dirt from collecting. Keep walks and porches clean. Have storage space near entrance for boots and rubbers. Close off rooms not in use. 935 6. Learn something new every day about your profession as a homemaker, and be ready to change your methods if you find a better way. New acquisitions that enhance and enlarge your understanding of the world and its peoples will have deeper meaning, if you know how to care for them and if you make them a meaningful part of your family life. Questions for Discussion 1. Give some pointers about cleaning windows, mirrors, and glass dishes and stem ware. 2. Relate some historical event in connection with family china, silver, or furnishings. LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 38 — Herman Melville (1819-1891) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 512-537) For Third Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To become acquainted with Melville as man and as American that we mav better understand the close relationship between his life and his writings. ERMAN Melville, born in 1819 in New York City, was reared there and in Albany, New York. His mother was Maria Gansevoort — New York City Dutch, saturated with centuries of tradition, regal and stern in money and pride. She was proud of her patriot ancestors. Her parents were conscientious members of the Dutch Reformed Church. She inherited their piety and was strict in her religious observances all her life. 'This religious orthodoxy left an impres- 936 sion upon young Herman though he later turned away from it. Herman worshipped his father, Allan Melville, who loved travel and was a merchant in elegant imports and fineries. During a business depression he became bankrupt before Herman was in his teens. Bravely he tried to provide for his family but he died from overwork and worry in 1832 leaving his responsibilities to his widow and eight children. 'The shock of being the beholden poor relatives in complete contrast to their former security stunned young Herman who was forced to leave school for office jobs, boarding about as a_ rural schoolteacher and finally, at eighteen, shipping as a cabin boy aboard a merchant vessel bound for Liverpool in 1837. This incident, sometimes thought of as an escape from hardship, was more romantic than real. Actually his mood was understood, and _ his departure planned by his widowed mother and his envious but helpful brothers who went down to New York to make the necessary arrangements. The cowardice and inhumanity of the wealthy cabin passengers aboard the vessel outraged his sense of fairness and human brothethood. On his arrival in Liverpool, still resentful and confused at the disturbing change in his fortunes, he attempted to guide himself through the city by the map his father had used thirty years earlier, but learned after wandering through "the black spot on the river Mersey" with its abject poverty and degraded misery that "the thing that had guided the father could not guide the son." 'Thus young MelRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 HERMAN MELVILLE From a Painting by Goff Dowding Reproduced by Permission of Wheelwright Lithographing Company ville, in his untried innocence, fell from the security of family pride into a violent awareness of the evils of his time which became an even stronger reality, one of the great themes of American