[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: One | Author: Young]
Little Tim and Susie, who had ONE LITTLE CHRISTMAS GIFT been playing with Mama's button box on the floor, came to look at my wealth, too. "Bless Miss Mandy's _ heart," Mama exclaimed, "now you can buy one of those little dolls in Van Wagoner's window." I was glad to hear Mama say that because I knew that Santa Claus was awful poor, and Mama had said she was afraid that he couldn't bring new dolls for Susie and me. Susie, who always liked to play with kittens and stick horses better than dolls, didn't mind at all, but to me dolls were very special. Samantha, the one doll I had, was forgotten in a summer rain and the paint on her face was almost. All washed away. She really wasn't very beautiful now. So the prospects of having even a little new doll seemed wonderful, especially since Mama had suggested it. She turned from the stove and her eyes were shining. "Put the eggs in the pantry, honey," she said, "and tomorrow morning we'll borrow Aunt Mary's cookie cutters and make cookies and a pound cake, too." HEN Papa came in with a bucket of white, foaming milk, the table was set with bowls of steaming onion soup and warm biscuits. "Well, isn't this a happy family," he observed. Papa was so thin, and I thought his eyes looked as deep as the forest. But it was wonderful to have him up and about again, it seemed he had been sick for so long. While Mama was straining the milk, I told Papa about Miss Mandy 899 and the eggs and my dime. He was real interested and pleased. "Now you can buy that little doll you've talked about," he said. "That's just what Mama said," I replied happily. Papa smiled. "Your Mama and I usually think alike." When Johnny came in from feeding the calves and our supper was over, Papa put a big log on the fire in the front room. 'There, by the dancing, warm light, we sat while he read the Christmas story from the old family Bible. We all loved to hear that wonderful story, even Susie and little 'Tim, for the way Papa read it made you feel you were on the plains of Judea hearing the angels sing. We talked about Bethlehem and the Christ Child, and why he had come to earth. "The happiest people in the world are those who would rather give than get," Papa concluded, "for they are following the example of the Lord." Papa and Mama believed in giving. I remembered more than once when we had gone without to give to someone who they thought was in greater need than we. "When you give what you want for yourself, that's when giving is really giving,' Papa had often explained. Now the log on the fire was almost burned away. 'Timmy lay asleep, curled up like a kitten on the big bear rug. Little fingers of frost were creeping around the windowpanes. "It's going to be a cold night," Papa observed, as he bent down to 900 get Timmy. "Time for bed, children, tomorrow's a big day." We went up the stairs thinking of the morrow. 'To us the day before Christmas, with corn popping, cookie making, and going up the hill for a tree, was almost as good as Christmas day. EXT morning the windows were silver sheets of ice, and when Papa came in from milking, his moustache looked as if it had been dipped in white frosting. "T hate to think of you hauling the milk in this weather,' Mama told him, and before he left she found a square of calico in her rag bag and tied it around his face. "I don't want you breathing that cold air or you'll be in bed again." "What Papa needs is a scarf to cover his face on mornings like this," she sighed, as we watched him going toward the barn to harness the horses. Turning to our own work, we cleared the breakfast dishes away in record time, and then our kitchen became a hive of activity as we prepared for Christmas Day. By noon the windows were all thawed out, Johnny brought the hand sleigh from the shed, and I went with him up the hill to get our Christmas tree. When we came back, Mama brought out a half dollar she had been carefully saving. "Polly," she said, "you can go to Van Wagoner's and get some peanuts — two pounds, and the rest in hardtack candy." My feet fairly flew along the glistening white road. I was thinking of the precious little doll that I wanted so much. The two nickels RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 were safe with the fifty cents in Mama's brown handbag that she had let me carry. There weren't many toys left in Van Wagoner's window now, and for a moment my heart sank, but then I saw it — one little doll still standing there. Mr. Van Wagoner was a round, jolly man with twinkling eyes. I thought he looked like Santa Claus' brother. He smiled at me when I came into the store, but he was busy showing outing flannel to Mrs. Christy, so I just wandered around looking at things. There was everything you could think of in that store from barn lanterns to penny candy. Usually I liked to look at the fancy trinkets in the showcases, but today I had eyes for a doll only. Then I saw it — a red bandana handkerchief in the window, right beside my precious doll, funny, I hadn't noticed it before. For some reason I thought of Papa then with the white frost covering his moustache. Papa had been sick with I pneumonia for a long time. It had only been the last two weeks that he had been out on his milk route again, and it worried Mama so much to have him out in this zero weather.