[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Lovest Thou Me? Feed My Lambs" by Mary Grant Judd]

visiting teachers. The Interest and Beauty of Fruit Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the sixth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.] HO was it said that "Variety is the spice of life?" No matter, for though the statement has been so often repeated as to become almost trite, it is still axiomatic.
What a marvelous example nature sets in the interest she gives us through variety. As I write I am at my cabin at Brighton, in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah, sitting on the porch enjoying the early morning sunshine. And I'm thinking: how wonderful that there are never two of those tall pine trees just alike; never two slippery rocks, in the dashing creek down there at the foot of the hill, which duplicate each other; and never two of those great billowy cloud masses in exactly the same form. I'm thinking especially this morning of the limitless variety one finds in the colors, contours, and textures, as well as flavors, of fruits and vegetables. (The latter, with their decorative possibilities, will be discussed next month). It is as if Mother Nature tries to intrigue our imaginations as she tempts our appetites with her myriad products.
Does a peach produce fuzz on the surface, I'm wondering, because a peach skin is thin?
Then what about an apricot? Why is a watermelon smooth on the outside while its cousin, the cantaloupe, is rough? Parenthetically, I'd like to pass on a bit from Wilham Jennings Bryan,  showing that he used his imagination as he contemplated a watermelon. He said that while eating a piece of this thirst-quenching fruit, he was struck with the miracle of its beauty. He weighed some of the seeds and found that it would tequire several thousand to make a pound and yet he had been eating a melon weighing in the neighborhood of thirty pounds. One of these watermelon seeds put into the ground and surrounded by favorable conditions "takes off its coat and goes to work."
From somewhere the seed gathers over a hundred thousand times its own weight and constructs a watermelon. "It ornaments the outside with a covering of green; inside the green it puts a layer of white, and within the white a core of red, and all through the red it scatters seeds, each one capable of continuing the work of reproduction." In conclusion, Mr.
Byran asks: "Where does it get its tremendous strength?
Where does it find its coloring matter? How does it collect its flavoring extract?"
Considering the great amount of interest, as well as beauty, that fruit holds, it is no wonder that many of us love an arrangement of fruit, for a change, as a table decoration.
Most people prefer a combination of several fruits, but the beautiful simplicity of one variety—such as gtapes—can be very striking. In our illustration, green seed- THE INTEREST AND BEAUTY OF FRUIT less grapes spill out of an antique brass container and are wired to the base of the container as well as to the brass candlesticks which flank it.
White candles look well in this arrangement, or you may care to use yellow, to tie in with the brass, or green to harmonize with the grapes.
Sometimes fruit and flowers are combined to good effect.
Many of our readers may have seen, at a recent general board reception at conference time, a combination of bronze chysanthemums and leafy branches loaded with small apples. (Yes, the apples were real. I pinched one myself to find out!) Some fruits are more intriguing when cut. A few crescents of luscious cantaloupe look well when placed with other fruits. And while the deep red of the rind of a pomegranate adds color Simmons Photo Art Studio 677 to any fruit basket, it cannot compare with the interest of this somewhat rare fruit when it is halved to show its tiny red globules lying sO symmetrically in individual sections. A delicious ripe pineapple when halved lengthwise with the interesting leaves left on, makes an exotic addition to any fruit centerpiece (and did you know that a Pineapple is just right for eating when a slight tug at one of the leaves will easily detach it?). I urge you to use Imagination in serving fruit as a first course. I'm afraid it is often too easy to pick up the faithful can opener and open a can of fruit cocktail. If you must do this, please add fresh fruits in season, such as sliced strawberries, pitted cherries, either light or dark, raspberries, or melon balls. Arrangement, Courtesy Florence Williams, Wcst Ensign Ward, Ensign Stake
AN ATTRACTIVE ARRANGEMENT OF GRAPES AND CANDLES 678
But, if you really care about your reputation as a good cook and hostess, make your own combinations. At the risk of being accused of stepping into other territory than my particular subject covers, I'm going to tell you how I like to make fruit cup. I always use as a base my own pureed apricot juice which I combine with equal parts of canned grapefruit juice. Add a small amount of fresh orange juice, also. You will need to add some sugar, depending on the tartness of the fruit you are using.
Combine almost any fresh fruits—it is almost impossible to  go wrong.
From early spring until late fall I always pick four or five long pieces of spearmint from the garden and tuck them well down into the bottle of fruit cup which is placed in the refrigerator at least two hours before it is served.
Just before taking it to the table, add some ice cubes and, when they have - melted, remove the mint and squeeze what juice you can extract into the fruit cup.
Garnish with a sprig of fresh mint. Doesn't it make your mouth water? 24 A Haliowedn ~p>-— ie ap aak Table Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustration by Elizabeth Williamson OR a Halloween centerpiece that's fun, assemble a group of grotesquely shaped vegetables and fruits—green peppers, goose-necked squash, eggplants, pomegranates, apples, lemons, oranges, Osage oranges—the possibilities are infinite—and deck them out with funny faces.
Gummed notebook reinforcements, left white, or inked black, for making the eyes, are an easy medium to use.
Cloves are handy, and crepe paper for hair.
With a little straw sticking out here and there, you will have some really seedy-looking characters to group, leering, in the center of your Halloween table.