[Notes to the Field: Relief Society Handbook Obtainable Only at Office of General Board]

Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. BAZAARS, SINGING MOTHERS, SOCIALS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mae Matis FINNISH MISSION, TAMPERE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT THEIR BAZAAR, June 1, 1949
Left to right: Secretary Emma Blixt; Counselor Signe Potjas; President Laina Lansilehto; chorister and organist Saara Potjas; work director Inez Erickson; Mae Matis, President, Finnish Mission Relief Society. In reporting the Tampere bazaar, Sister Matis writes: "I was amazed at what the had accomplished in so short a time. They had a lovely program and sold all their articles. They made 10,400 marks, about $70. The photograph shows only part of the bazaar. I am so happy working with these sisters. They are a real inspiration to me and eager to do all they can to help this work go forward." Mae Matis is president of the Finnish Mission Relief Society.  seated, 8); Bessie Jones Baldwin, tT resenting Hill, representing er ad; Alice Mitton; Naomice Perks. 1949, honoring e; Kerr; Melba Jones; Peat i h was taken at the Anniversary ofricers since all the women W Harriet CG. Leishma itted by Edna Beal E (CALIFORNIA); + ae photograph subm SAN FERNANDO STAK SOCIETY ASSEMBLED AT FORES L CLOSING THEOLOGY LESSON, May 1949 i e second row, fourth from the left; President Lucile Lyon ond row; view the ~ for the theology lessons. Esident of San Fernando Stake Relief Society- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 691
Photograph submitted by Hattie Foutz YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO) SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT - STAKE CONFERENCE: The chorister, Catherine Mernll, stands immediately back of the right side of the piano. President Hattie Foutz reports that this chorus has been particularly active during the past year and has been featured at nearly all of the stake conferences. The chorister has spent considerable time assisting the ward groups. Hattie D. Foutz is president of Young Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bessie W. Dayley WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD MEMBERS ENTERTAIN FORMER STAKE BOARD MEMBERS, WARD OFFICERS, AND VISITING TEACHERS, May 14, 1949 At right, seated left to right: President Emily Romish; First Counselor Margaret Nelson; Second Counselor Bessie Dayley; Mary Gee; Mabel Sappington; Rita Austin; Asenath Benson; Alice Sutton; Sarah Stolworthy; Idalia Huff. Stake Secretary-Treasurer Dora Allen, seated at the table. The combined chorus of the Fifth and Ninth Ward Singing Mothers, with the director Ione Woodland and the pianist Leatha Hatch, are shown at the center back. Former stake board members are seated at the left. Over two hundred guests were present for this occasion and an excellent program was presented. Each honored guest was presented with a corsage and special gifts were also presented to each Magazine representative who has achieved 100 per cent in her subscriptions, Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. AZINE—OCTOBER 1949 LIEF SOCIETY MAG RE 13258 oi — ee ed elles: EE tat gees A: %. Oe: es submitted by Helga Pugmire TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT A TAKE (IDAHO), ISITING R HONOR, May 20; 1949 POCATELLO S V RECEPTION HELD IN THEI nds at the left on the second tow; d from left on the second row, 7
Photograph Sister Pugmire. Included a cantata by the stake Singing Mothers. Every visiting ld and blue flowers as 4 token of appreciation. Ie ee Photograph submitted by ERN STATES MISSION, ORGANIZED RELIE Georgia R. Livingston '; etty Brunton, m States Mission Relief Sister Livingston -, Relief Society work. Izati t Norwich. The members are writes: enthusiastic an the gospel an resent at the meeting participated in the Primary NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693
Photograph submitted by Muriel S. Wallis UINTAH STAKE (UTAH) VERNAL FIRST AND THIRD WARDS JOINT BIRTHDAY PARTY, March 15, 1949
One hundred women were present and enjoyed a delightful program and games. Officers in charge were Lela Johnson, Mildia Jones, Stella Pack, and Rose Miloicam of the Third Ward and Geneva Adamson, Doris Walker, and Verlie Stringham of the First Ward. Muriel S. Wallis is president of Uintah Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Martha W. Brown CENTRAL STATES MISSION, HANNIBAL (MISSOURI) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Photograph taken at the Relief Society Memorial Marker in Nauvoo, Illinois Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Naomie Winthrop; Second Counselor Helen Harrison; First Counselor Fern Gardner; President Ruby Price. 'These officers have recently been appointed and they are doing excellent work in promoting Relief Society spirit and conducting the educational and compassionate activities of the society. Martha W. Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. 
694 
Photograph submitted by Ann Bell Hansen SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH), EPHRAIM WEST WARD SOCIAL June 21, 1949
This entertainment was held on the lawn at the home of President Martha N. Breinholt. Beautiful flowers surrounded the group. Fifty-seven members and guests were entertained by singing and games. A delicious luncheon was served. Stake board members are seated at the two tables at the right. Ward officers are seen standing in the background. Ann Bell Hansen is president of South Sanpete Stake Relief Society. Onde, orgie |. He, SA #. ES: o a ca; eS @, Photograph submitted by Christie J. Smith TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, GILMER (TEXAS) BRANCH, COMPLETES RELIEF SOCIETY FRIENDSHIP QUILT Left to right: President Flossie Lindsey; First Counselor Charity Amos; fourth from right, Second Counselor Lona Lee. The friendship quilt, which netted this society $194, represents only one of the many activities undertaken by this energetic group, who loyally support all Church work in the branch. Christie J. Smith is president of the Texas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society. LESSON ie} DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 20—"Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry" concluded, and "The Last Winter" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, latter part of Chapter 27 and Chapter 28) For Tuesday, January 3, 1950
Objective: To prove by cumulative evidence that Jesus was indeed the greatest teacher mankind has ever known. On Marriage and Divorce O question is or can be more important to society than the preservation of the home. The perpetuity of the oneness between man and wife, and, therefore, the purity of the home, lies at the very foundation of progress and civilization. It is easy to see why the Pharisees sought to trap Jesus when they met him as he slowly made his way toward Jerusalem. Hoping that he 'would denounce the ruler, Herod Antipas, who was living in adultery, the Pharisees asked: "Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?" Among the Jews there were widely divergent views as to divorce. One school contended that divorce should be given a man on the slightest provocation. Another school contended that divorce should be granted only for violation of the law of chastity. When the question last quoted was put to Jesus, he cited the eternal law of God. And he answered and said unto them, Have ye not read, that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female, And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh? Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder (Matt. 19:4-6). God has provided for honorable marriage. No earthly relationship is more sacred than that of husband and wife. Jesus superseded the law of Moses regarding divorce. It is plain that only by a strict compliance with the doctrine as he taught it, can a true order governing society be maintained. In the days of Jesus, men had practically made slaves of women. By the law of God it is intended that they shall be companions and partners. Jesus is the greatest friend and champion of women the world has ever known. His gospel completely emancipates women. Marriage was instituted of the Lord and is highly honorable. It should not be treated lightly.  
696  A Perry Picture From a Painting by Hofmann
CHRIST AND THE RICH YOUNG MAN
Jesus and the Little Ones In logical sequence, Jesus followed his instructions regarding matriage with a tender lesson regarding little children.
Mothers brought their little children to him for a blessing. 'The disciples rebuked these mothers, seeking thereby to save the Savior from unnecessary trouble and worry. 'These disciples, however, must be taught a lesson.
Jesus rebuked them and in sweet tones said: "...
Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10:14).
That blessing was in no sense a baptism "...
Little children need no repentance, neither baptism... But little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world..." (Moroni 8:11-12).
Jesus took the children in his arms, one by one, and blessed them. "One Thing Thou Lackest"' A young man came to Jesus and knelt at his feet inquiring: "Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?" The reply was: "If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments." In answer to the young man's further inquiry as to which commandments were meant, Jesus explained that they included particularly those against murder, adultery, theft, and the bearing of false witness.
Jesus told him also that he should honor his parents and should love his neighbor as himself. 'The young man said: All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet?
Jesus said 698 life—the greatest of all gifts—and that he and the Father are one. "In the original Greek one appears in the neuter gender and, therefore, expresses oneness in attributes, power, or purpose, and not a oneness of personality which would have required the masculine form." (See note 3 end of chapter 28 of the text. ), On a previous occasion when he proclaimed himself the "I AM" he had told them he was greater than Abraham. He made it plain that he was not the earthly king for whom they were looking. He was the true Christ—the Eternal King. The Jews were so enraged that they made an unsuccessful attempt on the Lord's life within the environs of the temple. He calmly called their attention to the fact that he had done many good works among them and asked "... For which of those works do ye stone me?"
Angrily they replied: "For a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God" (John 10:32-33). He cited the scriptures wherein even judges empowered by divine authority are called Gods. If this was written in their law, surely he who had been sent by the Father could not be accused of blasphemy when he said he was the Son of God.
Again the Jews sought to take Jesus, but his time had not yet come and they were foiled in their attempt. Our Lord's Retirement in Perea The Lord must further instruct his apostles before the time of his sacrifice should come. He retired with them into Perea, beyond Jordan. He went back to the place  where John the Baptist had commenced his ministry.
Just how long he remained in Perea is not known. He left in response to an earnest appeal from Mary and Martha who dwelt in Bethany near Jerusalem. Lazarus Restored to Life Lazarus, the brother of Martha and Mary, was seriously ill.
Jesus loved these two sisters and also the brother.
When he heard the urgent appeal: "Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick,' he remarked: "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby."
Jesus waited two days after receiving word of Lazarus' illness before announcing to the disciples that he was returning to Judea.
Mindful of the danger through which he had recently passed, they tried to dissuade him from going. The Lord made it clear that he would not be deterred from doing his duty and that others ought not to be. It was his duty to return and he would go.
Lazarus evidently died the day the messengers left to find Jesus. The Savior knew he was dead. "Lazarus is dead," he told the disciples, "and I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him."
Jesus had evidently decided to perform a miracle even before he started. Lazarus "had lain in the grave four days already" when Jesus arrived at Bethany of Judea. The two mourning sisters were at home when the word reached Martha of the near approach of the Savior. She hastened out and met him with these words: "Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died,' and added: LESSON DEPARTMENT "but I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee," Jesus spoke assuringly: "Thy brother shall rise again."
Those who heard seemed to understand that he had reference to the resurrection. (Read John 11:25-27,) Martha notified Mary secretly and bade her go and meet the Lord.
Marty used almost the exact words that Martha used in greeting the Master. The sight of the prief.
Stricken women caused Jesus to weep, and he directed that he be taken to the grave wherein lay the body of Lazarus. "It was a Cave, and a stone lay upon it."
Jesus asked that the stone be removed and, after uttering a prayer of thanksgiving to his Father, "he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth."
Lazatus obeyed and the Lord commanded others to loose him from the graveclothes with which he was bound.
This was not a case of resurrection from death to immortality. The spirit of Lazarus was called back to his dead body and he lived again in mortality. The miracle was performed not only to assuage the guief of the beloved sisters, but also that "the works of God should be made manifest." The Hierarchy Greatly Agitated Over the Miracle The raising of Lazarus from the 699 gtave by Jesus caused gteat excitement, and the Jews tried to get Lazarus into their power that they might kill him and "silence forever his testimony of the Lord's power over death."
Jesus in Retirement at Ephraim To avoid the Jewish hostility, the Lord retired to a place called Ephraim, that he might spend the rest of the winter instructing his disciples.
When he emerged from this Place it was to commence "his solemn march toward Jerusalem and the cross," Questions and Suggestions for _ Discussion 1.
What was the law given by Jesus regarding divorce? In what way was Jesus a great champion of women? 2.
Wherein should we be like little children? 3.
Discuss the question "What do | lack?" asked of Jesus by the rich young Are we today willing to put the work of the Lord ahead of wealth, social Position, and official distinction? 4.
Discuss the lesson taught by the Parable of the Laborers given by Jesus in answer to Peter's question as' to what would be their reward for having forsaken all to follow him.
References in the Gospels Matt. 9:23-25; 15:37, Luke: 7:11-17; 16:31. John 6:12; 8:58; 9:3; 10:11, 22-42; 11:1-54, 57; 12:9-11, le ' --<-e-— Opportunity Evelyn Fieldsted Who can know the kindly thoughts, The gentle sweet humility Inspired by the word, the hymns, Unless he seeks the opportunity. 
700 
Ussiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 4—"Lovest Thou Me?... Feed My Lambs" (John 21:15) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, January 3, 1950
Objective: To point out that this admonition is equally important today. HE writer has often wondered why it was that preceding his admonition to Peter (twice repeated) to "feed my sheep," the Savior told him to "feed my lambs." It might appear that he was thinking of the spiritual food of children and that it was equally important to that of adults.
Nowhere is our Savior's great tenderness shown more clearly than when he was in the company of little children. How he loved them and how at home they must have felt in his presence as he gathered them into his arms and _ blessed them! 'To call them lambs and he their shepherd was fitting, for, in ancient times, the shepherd had so small a flock that he knew each individual sheep or lamb. 'They, in turn, knew the voice of their Shepherd and answered when he called.
This entreaty "Feed my lambs" (John 21:15), should be as appealing in our day as when it was first given. A child's mind cannot remain'a vacuum. If it is not filled with worthwhile ideas, worthless ones may find lodgment there.
Neither can a child's heart remain untouched.
Some modem mothers have thought to let their children wait until they are old enough to decide which religion they prefer.
What a mistaken idea! We all know that the most important impressions are made before a child is old enough to go to school. The modern mother is, for the most part, very careful about the food which she gives her growing child to sustain his physical needs.
What about the food for his spirit? Is she equally careful? President David O. McKay has said that "there is an eternal part of us that will outlive the sun, the moon and even the earth itself."
Just as a child's body needs food to nourish it, just as his mind needs mental exercise, so his spiritual nature needs refreshment and this need is equally as imperative as those of body and brain. We are but following in the Savior's footsteps when we make the child the object of our constant thought and solicitude. William Jennings Bryan contributed some significant ideas on the power of children to comprehend religious teachings. It is when we deal with the child that we get the clearest conception of faith over reason. The foundations of character are laid in faith not in reason; they are laid before the reason can be accepted as a guide. No one who exalts reason above LESSON DEPARTMENT faith can lead a child to God, but a child can understand the love of the Saviour and the tender care of the Heavenly Father...
Morality rests upon religion and religion, taking hold upon the heart, 701 exercises a control far greater than any logic can exercise Over the mind. If we love our Savior, we will feed his lambs. Work Tleeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at