[Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon by Christine Eaton]

Suggestions for a Work ITleeting stuncheon Christine Eaton SPANISH RICE (For 35-40 people) 21 cups cooked rice (about 2% Ibs.) 1 lb.
Bacon cut in small pieces _ 6 onions salt and pepper to taste 12 cups tomatoes or tomato juice buttered bread crumbs Fry the bacon and onions until light brown and mix them with the cooked rice and tomatoes.
Place in baking dishes or old-fashioned bread pans about 2% inches deep.
Cover with buttered bread crumbs and brown in oven about 30 minutes at 350° F. ICE-BOX ROLLS (Makes 36 rolls) % cup Crisco | | 2 eggs 1 tsp. Salt 1 cup lukewarm water 1 cup boiling water. 6 cups flour " cup sugar, 2 yeast cakes Mix the shortening and salt in boiling water and let stand until lukewarm. Add sugar, beaten eggs, and lukewarm water which has been standing for 5 minutes with yeast cakes in it. Add flour, mix well, and place in greased bowl.
Cover with wax paper.
Store in ice box until thoroughly chilled.
When rolls are desired pinch off bits of dough and shape into rolls as desired.
Place them in a pan in a warm place.
Cover with cloth and let rise until double in size. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven (450° F.). SEED COOKIES (About 50 cookies) 1 cup shortening 2 level tbsp.
Caraway seeds 2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 2 eggs "2 tsp. Salt % cup water 2 tsp.
Baking powder Cream shortening and sugar together. Add well-beaten eggs and water.
Sift together the flour, salt, and baking powder and add to first mixture, then add the caraway seeds.
Roll out thin on a floured board and cut into rounds.
Place on greased cookie sheet.
Bake about ten minutes in moderate oven (325°). HOUSEHOLD HINT.
Many of the ladies have asked me how I keep my rice from sticking together.
Here is all I do: I wash the rice three or more times, then I put it in boiling water, about 2 quarts of water to a cup of rice. I stir it once to get the rice from the bottom of the kettle, then I boil it without stirring the rest of the time.
When the rice is done I put it in a colander and let cold water run through the grains. If you are serving the rice plain, put it in the oven to heat and to take out the rest of the moisture.