[Vol2 | December 1915 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Home | Title: In the Kitchen Laboratory]

In the Kitchen Laboratory.
By Hazel Love Dunford.

THE CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.

Thoughtful people are beginning to think we are in danger of losing the spirit of Christmas, that most blessed of festivals, by "doing" it to death. The funny papers have even taken it up, making ridiculous stories of it. However, women "tired to death," men in debt, and children in tears, are stern realities.

This is the greatest, the most blessed, day of the year, and it depends on the womanliness of true women to make it the most enjoyable, by means of simple sincerity. The true meaning of the day, its lessons and its significance, are being lost under a mass of sham and rubbish, while the light of our dear Savior is ever shining, to lead us home again.

Perhaps no courtesy is more abused, or will it be more polite to say, so little understood? as the art of Christmas giving, and Christmas receiving.

Christmas day is a busy day for the mother, especially if there are to be guests in the house. The common custom of a late breakfast, an early dinner, and a late supper has little to recommend it, and much could be said against it. Where there are children, the stockings have been hung in the chimney for the visit of Santa Claus — consequently there is always an early awakening. Breakfast should then be served not later than eight o'clock, so the work of preparation and cleaning away can be done early. Have a very simple lunch at one, and dinner at five or six. If, however, breakfast is late, have but two meals, serving the dinner at two or three.

Make your table as much of a happy surprise as possible, in decoration, in gifts, etc. The meals should be simple and wholesome. It is in the nature of a disgrace to have sick children the day after Christmas, because of allowing them unwonted "stuffing," and foolish gormandizing on candy and rich foods.

In order to save work, the mother should prepare her food a day or two in advance.

In the past two years, it has become an accepted fact that Christmas gifts sap the energies, purse, and love of men and women, in need of recuperation, rather than of increased strain. Instead of Christmas being a blessed season, it will thus become, if it has not already, a dreaded season.

Sincere simplicity, common sense, proper pride and delicacy of feeling, must come as a relief; wisdom, affection and love should prompt the gifts; good

judgment and wisdom should adapt them to the needs and circumstances of the recipient.

There are many simple things that might be done that show thought and love. Make your friend or neighbor a nice plum pudding — easily done — while you are making your own. Send her the recipe, if it is a favorite with you, or send her a nice basket of cookies. I am sure they will be acceptable. Be sure to send them early, so as to save your friend the trouble of making. A nice suet pudding can be wrapped and sent in the can, and needs only to be warmed. I know a busy woman who sends out over a dozen plum puddings to her friends, as she makes them easily, enjoys doing it, and prefers this form of remembrance to any other.

RECIPES.

Italian Fig Pudding.
3/4 lb. figs chopped fine
1 c. chopped suet
2 c. stale bread crumbs
1/2 c. salt
1/2 t. soda
1/2 c. milk
2 eggs
1/2 c. sugar
1/3 c. molasses
1/2 nutmeg

Rub suet until creamy, then add figs. Soak the bread crumbs in milk, add egg well beaten, molasses, sugar, flour, nutmeg. Combine mixture, turn into buttered molds and steam three hours. Serve with a rich sauce.

Date Pudding.
2 eggs
1/4 c. butter
1 t. baking powder
1 c. sugar
1/4 c. milk
Flour to make thick batter

Stir in 1 cup dates, cut in quarters, fill molds half full and steam two hours.

ECONOMY PUDDING.

Any desired fruit may be used — a little jam left over, or a few cherries, not enough for a meal; or five cents worth of cranberries, or a little stewed pie plant. Put this into a sauce pan and add enough sugar to sweeten and enough water, so it will not burn. One cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, a little salt, well sifted. Now carefully add water or skim milk to make soft dough. Drop by spoonfuls on fruit, cover closely and set on back of the
stove and let steam one-half hour. Serve with cream.