[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 460 | General Feature | Notes From the Field | Hulda Parker]
[(28 S9¢ wiles. OF Nis number 687,091 were sewed aftictes ji UG Gut', CAN ane household furnishings, and 367.803 wera other handrail anitias Ai and better methods of homme iianagenmnt art belie: weve ol pr fern Ing homemaking Uasks were also leartwel Thus, the reeord of serviewe anil Sviainpisnwneants at laiwt Sr creties throvghout the world? Aba elledte fr he divenily of it WOITlen S$ Olganiwatron establishes ay St @ Ceritliry ee w@ lilo i by the Propliet al God an new tinéhived ty te thee Ulllest renter WOMEN'S OFS PetiGn In tie Lilet Shote SZ aor vite Sreewtary Ty eamurer 1963 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri iN MISSIONS TOTALS i I Organi f zations I 29 8 260 9 12 ANOdt fo) NS a 0) Members 552 115 206 183 318 114 164 Organitzations Members 552 375 IN STAKES IN MISSIONS I Tera 1 = q United States Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Total United States Organi zationgd Members 1,891 321 4,096 511 2,418 98,012 933 5,948 377 3,473 1,266 3,338]
[oe]
[O58. Page 47. And in the Relief Society Flandbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES European Mission, Relief Society Leaders and Singing Mothers at Servicemen's Conference, Bertchesgaden, Germany November 1963 Upper picture, left to right: Mary Russon, Swiss Mission; Lyle Petersen, Norwegian; Frieda Loscher, 'Austrian; Jean Fletcher, Swedish; Ingred Sorensen, Danish; Ruth Benson, Central German; Emily Myers, North German; Frances Tate, Berlin; Genevieve Gardner, South German; Carolyn Brugger, Servicemen's Relief Society Coordinator, European Mission. Not in the picture: Minnie P. Burton, European Mission; Agnes Jacobs, Bavarian; Marilyn Anderson, Finnish; Edith McIntire, West German Mission. Lower picture: Singing Mothers who presented music for the conference. Sister Brugger reports: "For three spiritually filled days, we met and partook of the spirit of our wonderful leaders. There were two special meetings for Relief Society, one a special workshop for presidents and secretaries, with specific helps given on the annual report. A skit was presented to point out better ways to prepare the narrative section of the report. A question and answer period was informative to all. "On the final morning of this conference, our lovely spiritual Relief Society session was held. Edith McIntire, of the West German Mission, gave a farewell tribute to Minnie P. Burton, thanking her, on behalf of all of us, for the willing service she has given. The Germans refer to Sister Burton by saying, 'Sie ist eine Dame' (She is a lady). This is a German's highest tribute to a woman. A cut crystal candy dish was presented to Sister Burton to remind her of the love and respect we feel for her. Sister Burton, in her remarks, asked that we open the door for the Savior. Sister Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission, expressed the desire that we all have the proper attitudes. Sister Freda Joan Lee, wife of our beloved apostle Harold B. Lee, expressed a hope that we would pray with our children. Each sister who spoke left her testimony and love with us. "Singing Mothers from all parts of Europe blended their voices and gave moving renditions in the Relief Society sessions, and in a general session of the conference. When we left the beautiful Bavarian Alps, we had a renewed desire for service and stronger testimonies, and we were indeed spiritually fed and physically uplifted."

Hulda Parker

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of ten women standing in a line, wearing 1940s-style dresses and clothing]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group gathering of people, appears to be a social or church meeting with many attendees seated and standing in what looks like a meeting room or hall]

JUNE 1964

Tacoma Stake (Washington), Tacoma First Ward Bazaar
November 1963

Left to right: Rosella Seal, First Counselor; Marion Harris, President; Vera Casio, Second Counselor; Bessie Groom, work meeting leader.

Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Tacoma First Ward proved the worth of hard work in preparing for their bazaar. They made a total of $550. About $140 was earned from serving a turkey dinner the evening of the bazaar, and the remainder came from items made by the sisters during the year. The pillowcases draped over the front of the table were made by Anna Conquest, a sister who is eighty-one years old. She averages a pair of pillowcases a month, but the month before the bazaar she made three pairs. All are solid embroidery. Best sellers at the bazaar were eighteen sets of tea towels, plus some singles; a dozen sets of pillowcases, two dozen cloth balls, detergent bottle covers, eleven doll quilts, four large quilts (with orders for more); two dozen cloth hangers, aprons, and children's clothing. We certainly felt that this fund-raising activity was an outstanding example of diligence and cooperation."

Reseda Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Different Occasions

Merlene Colarusso, President, Reseda Stake Relief Society, reports: "In recent months, the Reseda Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus has presented a spring concert, commemorated the Society's anniversary, given an autumn concert, and was featured in the stake Inter-Faith social. Maryann M. Mendenhall is choirster, and Carol C. Cook, organist."

Whittier Stake (California) "Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair"
September 20, 1963

Left to right: Jean Ann Bowman and Jacqueline Kaline, two of ninety-three models who participated in the fashion show.

Rea W. Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society, with Bette McDonough and Alta Ellis as her counselors.

Sister Jorgensen reports: "Come to the Fair — Our Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair.' With these words, the Whittier Stake Relief Society set the stage for a full evening of festivity and fashion. An ingenious carousel and a giant pink horse delighted both models and spectators as the curtains parted. Musical numbers were interspersed with a colorful narration which kept the fair moving at a lively pace. Models, from toddlers to grandmothers, came on stage in small groups to view the wonder and excitement created with paint and paper.

"This fashion fair was the culmination of a summer sewing school held in each ward of the stake. Ensembles for all occasions were proudly worn by those who had taken advantage of this wonderful opportunity afforded them by the Relief Society. Various fashions shown included morning, afternoon, and evening wear, children's apparel, mother and daughter outfits, maternity wear, and accessory magic. As each of the ninety-three models walked down the ramp toward the many gaily decorated booths, a capacity audience of nearly 450 applauded their appreciation for the efforts of these sisters."

462

[PHOTOGRAPH: Four women standing behind a table with decorative items and tablecloth]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group of women in white blouses seated in rows in what appears to be a meeting hall or auditorium]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Two women standing in front of seated audience in what appears to be a meeting or presentation setting]

Florida Mission, Florida West District Visiting Teachers Honored
October 27, 1963

Front row, left to right: Carol Jean Sweetwood, theology class leader; Tottie Brown, visiting teacher adviser; Effie Tucker (thirty-four years of visiting teaching); Thursa Adisson (seventy-eight years old, oldest visiting teacher); Sister Wilson Allred, youngest visiting teacher; Stella Herring, President, West Florida District Relief Society.

Back row, left to right: Nona Goodson, First Counselor; Florence Ewing, pianist; Dorothy Britsch, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Norton, Second Counselor; Tura Lee Buzzett, Magazine representative; Mary Etta Williamson, literature class leader; Loree Finefoth, social science class leader, and Gayle Farnsworth, chorister, were not present when the picture was taken.

Ollie Hutchinson, President, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: "The West Florida District honored the visiting teachers at leadership meeting, October 27, 1963. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented and enjoyed by all present. We feel that all were inspired by the meeting to be more prompt and faithful in magnifying their callings as visiting teachers. Corsages and Relief Society pins were presented to the sister with the most years of service, to the oldest sister, and to the youngest."

Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board
October 1963

Front row, left to right: former President Nina Beth G. Cunningham; Education Counselor Rula B. Johnson; Work Director Counselor Ada H. Reid; Secretary-Treasurer Rue Spencer.

Back row, standing, left to right: Nellie H. Weaver, chorister; Virgie T. Packer, organist; Viola J. Gold, Magazine representative; Mary G. Lancaster, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Hendrix, work meeting leader; Lucille A. Gibbs, literature class leader. Ulden Shupe, social science class leader.

Sister Cunningham reports: "For the first time in the history of Gooding Stake in Southern Idaho, the full stake board attended the Relief Society Annual General Conference in October 1963, with the exception of the theology class leader, which position was not filled at that time. These sisters expressed great appreciation for the wonderful inspiration and helps given by the capable General Board sisters, and by the General Authorities. Each of the stake board members in the picture has served for many years in Relief Society work, and has given faithful and devoted service."

Elaine P. Dixon is the new president of Gooding Stake Relief Society.

Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Relief Society Annual Christmas Exhibit
November 21, 1963

Left to right: Annalesa Strom, a native of Sweden, who demonstrated Christmas customs in Sweden; Evelyn Lewis, Work Director Counselor, Cowley Ward; Helen Snell, work meeting leader, Cowley Ward.

Pauline R. Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward exhibit outlined outstanding work and demonstrated the Christmas customs of other lands and served each visitor with a taste of native foods served at Christmastime in that land. The stake Relief Society board served punch and pretty cookies to all who attended, from a beautiful Christmas table. The purpose of this exhibit each year is to help our own sisters and give them ideas for Christmas, and also to interest nonmembers. It has grown so large we are afraid our cultural hall will not be large enough for one day's display. Between five and six hundred people attended."

464

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women in dresses standing together against brick wall]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women, some standing and some seated, in formal attire]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Three women standing behind a table with what appears to be food or refreshments, with decorative items visible in background]

JUNE 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

North Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for
Annual Christmas Concert, December 21, 1963

Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports:
"Amid the festive holiday splendor of poinsettias and holly, sixty Singing Mothers of the North Davis Stake sang songs of the Christmas season and hymns of praise to the Prince of Peace at their annual Christmas concert. It was an evening long to be remembered by families and friends who filled the chapel to overflowing.

"The table in one foyer was decorated to depict an old-fashioned Christmas, with an oil lamp, bowls of shiny red apples and popcorn, and an old Bible opened to the Christmas story. Decorations in the other foyer portrayed 'Peace on Earth,' with a nativity scene, a Bible opened to Luke 2, candles and poinsettias.

"The sisters were dressed in snowy white blouses and dark skirts, each with a colorful red Christmas corsage. As the narrator set the atmosphere for each musical number, colored slides of nativity scenes were shown to bring to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas.

"Following the concert, refreshments, consisting of French pastries and fruited punch, were served at two beautifully decorated tables which added to the yuletide atmosphere. Iola Murray was the capable director of this lovely evening. The superb artistry upon the organ by Alice Gailey, and the equally beautiful accompaniment upon the piano by Marvetta Saunders (mother and daughter) were enjoyed by all. Talented guest artists presented special vocal and instrumental numbers.

"These mothers have faithfully met at nine in the morning each Saturday to practice for the Christmas concert and stake conference. To be a Singing Mother is a joy and satisfaction which is held in high regard among our members. Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, and her Counselors LaVon S. Reid and Vera Thursgood, and board members were responsible for the planning, decorations, and refreshments for this lovely and successful evening."

466
