[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 410 | Special Feature | My English Textbook Martha | Weyland Paulsen]

My English Textbook

Martha Weyland Paulsen

Delivered in the Magazine Department Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963

ONE evening as I sat resting after a busy day, contemplating the beautiful surroundings of the valley, in the stillness I heard the shriek of a siren. Soon the fire engine came rushing up the street. The thought came to me, what would I save, if my home was on fire?

If the children were home, I would try to save them and myself. And if there were more time? Would I try to save furs, jewels (if I had any)?

I would try to save treasured family pictures, some old letters from my mother and father. I would save a few prized books. The Relief Society Magazine (prime example). This volume especially. It is not especially beautiful to look at. It is not bound professionally. It is one of these "do it yourself projects."

The story of my life is bound in this book. Here is a year's subscription of The Relief Society Magazine—the year 1928.

When I was nineteen years of age the opportunity came to me to join two sisters and a brother in Salt Lake City, Utah. In Sweden I had what was considered a good position with the Telephone Company. I came here not knowing the language and could not hope for the same. I was employed with a lovely family. Here I learned the American way of life, for which I have always been grateful. I was paid $3 a week. On this I had to take care of my own needs and also start saving to bring a younger sister here from Sweden.

I could not afford books to satisfy the desire for reading that my parents had given me.

The first Sunday I was in Salt Lake City, some friends came to visit. One of them brought with him a stack of funny papers. Spreading some of them out on the floor, he said: "Come here, Martha, this is a good way to start learning a new language." Later that evening my sister said: "We have come here for the sake of the gospel, you will never learn about the gospel or the English language through the funny papers. Why not learn about the gospel at the same time you are learning a new language?" My sister brought out a few Relief Society Magazines. Together, we looked through them. She told me about the lesson department. I knew this was the plan my mother would want me to follow. The Relief Society Magazine became my English textbook.

Many a lonely night I sat with a Swedish-English dictionary and my Relief Society Magazine, remembering what my Father used to say: "Every man worth his salt will have hardships to meet and temptations to battle." Nothing worthwhile is accomplished without hard work.

It was hard work, it was discouraging work, and my whole heart had to be in it if I wanted to succeed. As time progressed, little by little, I understood more of the wonderful truths. They seemed to fit into my life. The way I wanted my life to be. More than anything I wanted a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. I never doubted my parents' teachings. I wanted to know through my own efforts.

Sometimes when sickness and discouragement nearly overtook me, I gained strength reading about the pioneers. I thought, what was it about those wonderful people that made it possible for them to endure all their hardships? It was not wealth, it was not knowledge, particularly, except the knowledge of God. I came to realize, it was the testimony. The testimony in their hearts of the truth of the gospel and the divinity of the mission of

410

MY ENGLISH TEXTBOOK

the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the light that led them and made it possible to endure all things.

True, I had no wilderness to fight, no mob violence to meet. But there were other battles to be won, a new language, to meet the challenge of life away from home and parental guidance in a strange land. Soon I found myself looking forward to the evenings when I could sit and read The Relief Society Magazines. They became my friends, my counselors, my advisors. They were helpers upon whose aid and wisdom I could rely. They were good company and kept me from feeling so alone. The Magazine met so many of my needs. Some day I wanted to marry, have a family, be a good homemaker, besides learning about the gospel through the Magazine. Here were tested recipes, sewing suggestions, budget planning.

Reading from this book I came upon this familiar statement: "The women of yesterday thought and thought and then spent, while the women of today spend and spend and then think."

I remember the first time I made corn-bread from a recipe in the Magazine. I really felt proud and happy, when the lady I worked for said it was very good. "Did you bring this recipe from Sweden?" I had never heard of corn-bread before. I was so thrilled when she asked me for a copy. I, writing English!

Many times when in doubt what to have for dinner, she would ask: "Seen any good recipes in the Magazine lately?"

If someone should ask me from what department of The Relief Society Magazine did I get the most help in learning a new language, I could not truthfully name one in particular. Each one filled my needs and gave me strength in so many ways. To me it has been a priceless privilege to become acquainted with the Relief Society Magazine at an early age. The Magazine helped me keep in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. When attending the sacrament meetings, when I first came to Salt Lake City, it seemed everyone talked so fast. I had a hard time to follow the speaker. Not so with my Magazine. Here I could sit down and take time learning every word till I knew its meaning.

Sometimes learning a new language can have its humorous sides. I remember the time I had tried a recipe from the Magazine, "Chicken à la King." One day as I was walking to my sister's, I walked by a house with a sign in the window, which said: "Chicken Pox." Chicken à la King, Chicken Pox, where was the difference? Anyway, it must be good and homemade, having a sign in the window. It would be much fun to surprise my sister with something good. After the sweet lady had explained to me what chicken pox was, we both had a good laugh.

The Relief Society Magazine has introduced me to so many friends, many of them gone long ago. Their influence has been felt in my life.

I never read the Magazine without feeling the love and sweet influence of the sisters who edit the Magazine. They have given me a well-balanced understanding of the important things in life.

It has contributed to my spiritual growth. Within me has been born a desire to be a better mother, wife, and homemaker.

I still fall short of my goal, but I hope I will continue to learn and improve with the help of my Heavenly Father.

I like to bear my testimony to you of the truth of the gospel. I want to express the joy that I have in the privilege of living in this wonderful land. I know that God lives, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, and there is not a doubt in my mind, but that David O. McKay is a true prophet of God. I am so grateful to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has showered upon me and mine. They are too numerous to mention and too wonderful to understand. I pray our Heavenly Father to strengthen us in all we attempt to do that is right and proper. May we take from the simple things at hand and build our happiness. May we glorify his name by living lives worthy of his blessings. I pray that I may always walk in humility and obedience before him. This I do humbly and in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

411

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a sheep lying down in grass]
