[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 474 | General Feature | Social Science — Divine Law and Church Government Ariel | S. Ballif]

SOCIAL SCIENCE

Divine Law and Church Government

The Functioning of Church Government

Preview of Lessons for 1964-65
Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Each year the social science lessons of the Relief Society examine an area of human interaction, observe the forces producing human behavior, and consider ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of our society.

In the first of the series on Divine Law and Church Government, emphasis was placed on divine law as the basis for Church government, and on Church government as Priesthood in action. It was pointed out that divine law has been continuously available to man, and that God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality

474

LESSON DEPARTMENT

and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39).

In the lesson year 1963-64, attention was focused upon Church government as an effective and thoroughly organized unit fully providing for interrelations of the various parts, dominated by the divine nature of the Church as a whole.

In the current series our effort is to see all human activity in the light of divine law. The design of the Creator for the perfection of mankind unfolds in the revelations of the divine will expressed in Church government. The basic function of Church government is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39).

Our attention is called to the fact that the law of God and his organization is devoted entirely to helping man achieve his greatest potential. Force is not the method, but counsel, persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, and love unfeigned, together with the development of faith through inspiration and revelation, is God's method. (D&C 121:41)

From this point of view, Church government should provide the direction for the activity of Church members. Every phase of life from birth to death, including the daily routine of making a living or solving the problems of society, should be included.

Honesty, full respect for the rights of others, unselfishness and love of fellow men are the basic requirements for citizenship in the kingdom of God. "We should put forth every effort to supplant the aristocracy of wealth with the aristocracy of character and to

SACRED MUSIC
FOR THREE PART
LADIES VOICES

.........ABIDE WITH ME;
'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen ......... .20

.........ETERNAL LIFE ...............Dungan .25

.........GOD OF ALL
NATURE—Tchaikovsky ............ .30

.........GO YE FORTH WITH
MY WORD—Madsen ................ .25

.........HEAVENS ARE
TELLING—Haydn ..................... .25

.........IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY
COMMANDMENTS—Madsen ..... .25

.........IN HIS STEPS—Wilson ............. .25

.........LORD BLESS THEE AND
KEEP THEE—Madsen ................ .20

.........ONWARD CHRISTIAN
SOLDIERS—Sullivan ................ .30

.........TWENTY THIRD
PSALM—Schubert .................... .25

Use this advertisement as your
order blank

Music Sent on Approval

DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Please send the music indicated
above.
□ On Approval  □ Charge
□ Money Enclosed
Name .........................................
Address .....................................
City and State ..........................

[LOGO: Daynes Music Company logo with piano keyboard design]
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

475

JUNE 1964

awaken in the minds of the youth a realization that to be honest, to be dependable, to be a loyal citizen of the country, to be true to the standards of the Gospel are the noblest ideals of life" (McKay, President David O., Church News, October 26, 1963, page 2).

Priesthood is dynamic, demanding creativeness. Progress is the objective. Government of the Church has the challenge of growth and expansion until it touches the life of every human being upon the earth. As a successfully functioning organization it must produce evidence of the continual improvement of human conduct. The final product is the perfected individual, and the perfected human family.

The function of Church government must embody all of the benefits of divine guidance. Satan's plan would have robbed man of progress. It would have taken away decision. It would have applied force instead of reason. Christ's plan provided for personal growth through initiative, decision-making, and creativity. His plan recognized the potential of Godhood in man and provided an organization through which man may enjoy unlimited development even to the perfection of the Father. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48).

Christ's government on earth as in the heavens must call forth the divine characteristics of man in overcoming selfishness, greed, and hate, and in controlling the appetites, disciplining the mind, and in stirring man with a never-ending thirst for and the quest of knowledge.

The following lesson outline for this year will give detailed expression to the ideas involved in the above discussion:

Lesson 15 — The Application of Divine Law to Life
Objective: To emphasize that religion and life are and must be one.

Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations
Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home is claimed on meritorious behavior.

Lesson 17—The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations (concluded)
Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations.

Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community
Objective: To point out that the functioning of the Priesthood involves the total of human experience.

Lesson 19 — The Value of Church Activity
Objective: To show that activity in the Church is essential to the fulness of life.

Lesson 20 — The Church Welfare Program
Objective: To increase our understanding of the meaning and implications of brotherhood.

Lesson 21 — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men
Objective: To emphasize the vital role of the function of Church government in bringing about peace on the earth.

475
