[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 436 | General Feature | "Parchment" Correspondence Cards | Peggy Tangren]

Parchment Correspondence Cards

Peggy Tangren

Gathering and Pressing

THE first pleasure in making these exquisite cards comes from gathering the foliage that grows in our gardens, on foothills, in canyons, and along roadsides. Press carefully old magazines with blotting paper so you can place the plants between the pages before they wilt. As you do this, discard all thick stems and dry or disfigured leaves. Throw away bulky parts of flowers; as an example, press only the petals of sunflowers. Small flowers make the best designs. Be sure you have plenty of long, wide-blade grass, and all grasses that have gone to seed. These can be used the way a florist uses fern to fill out a bouquet.

Materials Needed

Cut a side from a corrugated carton about 10" x 12". This is called the mat. You will need: four thumbtacks, Scotch tape, a roll of double wax paper, white or tinted facial cleansing tissues of good quality, a strong white glue, new pastry brush, envelopes, and white writing paper. If desired an extra pastry brush and paraffin may be used (see Tips at end of article). Diamond dust glitter is optional and can be purchased at craft stores.

436

[ILLUSTRATION: Three pressed flower arrangements on white/cream colored paper or cards. The top left shows red flowers with fern-like foliage, the bottom left shows orange/yellow flowers with dark foliage, and the right panel shows a tall drooping flower arrangement with red and brown elements and fern-like leaves at the base.]

437

[PHOTOGRAPH: Red autumn leaf pressed and preserved on paper]

Procedure

Assuming your envelopes measure 4" x 6" (this is an ideal size), fold a sheet of white paper down the middle and cut this double sheet to size 3¾" x 5¼", or ½" smaller than the envelope. On this sheet make a heavy pencil line along the fold. This is your size sheet. Place it in the center of the mat and tape the four corners down. Cut a single sheet of paper to 3¾" x 5¼". This is your pattern sheet. On this pattern sheet place your leaves and flowers, breaking off a stem, adding a bit of grass, until you have created a design that pleases you. Lay this carefully beside your size sheet. Tear off a piece of wax paper the size of the mat, lay it over the size sheet, and thumbtack to the four corners of the mat. Dip the pastry brush in a mixture of half glue and half water and brush on the wax paper covering the size sheet and one inch over all around. The glue will draw and puddle on the wax paper, so let it. Carefully lift the vegetation off the pattern sheet and place it in an identical design on the right half of waxed paper covering the size sheet. Separate a two-ply tissue and place one tissue over the glued section. Very gently stretch the tissue to pull out creases and wrinkles. Dip the pastry brush in the glue mixture, hold in a vertical position, and, with dabbing motion, wet and pat down all the tissue. Leave no dry spot, but do not soak. Sprinkle glitter, if desired, over the design very sparingly. Lift waxed paper off the mat and place on a flat, clean surface to dry.

When completely dry, place between two pieces of heavy brown paper obtained by cutting open grocery bags. Press with an iron just hot enough to sizzle. Turn and press again until the parchment card lies smooth and flat. Place again over size sheet, and, with pencil, mark the four corners. Place a long, straight-edged knife or metal-edged ruler from corner to corner, press firmly with one hand, and with the other tear by pulling toward you. Repeat process for each side. Fold, insert note paper, and your personalized "parchment" correspondence card is finished.

Tips

The wrinkles in the wet tissue add to the parchment effect when dry. To prevent colors in flowers from running, use a barely damp brush and apply glue to flower last, then quickly pat up all the moisture possible with a piece of tissue. If necessary, to make the flowers stand out clearly, touch with paraffin wax while pressing.

438

[PHOTOGRAPH]
