[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 443 | General Feature | Favors in | Watermelon Design]

Favors in Watermelon Design

Virginia Stake Relief Society

Cut from good quality heavy felt the following oval-shaped pieces:
From green felt, cut two pieces 7 inches in length and 6 inches across (in cutting, the fold would be 7 inches long).
From white felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 6 inches long and 5 inches across.
From bright pink-colored felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 5 inches long and 4 inches across.
From black felt, cut six pieces the size and shape of watermelon seeds.
Lay the white piece on top of one of the green pieces and stitch along the edge with white thread. Then lay the pink piece on the white piece and stitch along the edge with pink thread. Place a layer of air foam between the two green ovals, sew the two green ovals together along the edge with matching thread. Fold down the center and press. Attach the seeds to the pink with good quality glue, three seeds on each side of the center fold. Attach a white plastic curtain ring to one end of the green felt.
These favors will stand up and add much attractiveness to the watermelon table, and the guests will be delighted with their favors, which can be used later in the kitchen as colorful pot holders.

443

[PHOTOGRAPH]

ONE of the most interesting ideas to help you beautify your home is the covering of styrofoam balls with self-adhesive satin ribbon.

There are several reasons why homemade satin balls are valued: They are more economical; the balls do not snag and become "ragged" looking; and you can have a wide range of color and size depending on your own taste.

Materials

You are probably familiar with styrofoam, but do you know you can carve it with a serrate knife and make about any shape you wish? You can also use another piece of styrofoam to sand it with until it is smooth, or you may use regular sanding paper. This is the way you can make a pear shape (out of an egg shape) or a banana (out of a pole). As for that ribbon you use, it must be the type which sticks to itself when wet and strips easily. There are several brands available. For some of the fruit, you may wish to use chenille-covered stems or wire wrapped with green florist's tape, and artificial foliage. For tinting apricots or other fruit, a small amount of "blush" from water color paints may be used.

(Continued on page 449)

444

Ribbon-Covered

Fruit and

Ornaments

RaNae Gledhill

[PHOTOGRAPH: Various ribbon-covered ornamental fruits and decorations arranged on surfaces, including what appears to be apples, oranges, and other fruits decorated with ribbons and bows]

[PHOTOGRAPH: A white decorative vase or urn containing an arrangement of
