[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 425 | Fiction | Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 5 Hazel | M. Thomson]

Your Heart to Understanding

CHAPTER 5
Hazel M. Thomson

[ILLUSTRATION: Black and white drawing of a young woman in pioneer dress sitting and holding what appears to be a small object]

Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiancé died at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decided to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also leave with the company for California, but when a division of the company is made, Lon and Selena are separated. Alfred Quale, also on his way to California, begins his courtship of the lovely Selena.

THERE were days at a time now when the cemetery at Winter Quarters and the happenings there seemed very far away to Selena. She was enjoying the companionship of her new friend, Alfred Quale. He was so good-natured and cheerful that her despondency seemed to lessen with the passing of each day.

Too, some of Belle's enthusiasm may have rubbed off on Selena. Belle had never been happier. When they arrived at Resting Springs they did just that: they drank from the spring, filled every available water container, and rested. The feed was plentiful, and the leaders decided to give the animals a few days' rest.

"It's an oasis," Josiah said, looking at the luxuriant growth of grass. "Plenty of feed and plenty of water. Still, it makes me a little uneasy."

"For goodness sakes, Josiah, why? Can't you just take advantage of the chance to rest a few days without dreaming up something to worry about?"

"I'm not dreaming, Belle," he answered. "The leaders aren't dreaming either. They feel it necessary that we wait up here, until the other company arrives. We have been traveling so slowly that Brother Rich and his group can't be more than a few days back."

425

JUNE 1964

Selena, knitting nearby, was surprised to find her heart skipping a beat. Lon! He would be in camp soon! She bent lower over her work, unwilling to betray any sign of emotion about Lon. She realized the lack of encouragement she had given him. The amazing thing was that he had remained so constant in coming to see her at every opportunity, in view of her own actions. But Selena did not yet know her own mind, so she said nothing.

IT was late the next day that the Rich Company caught up with the lead camp. Just as Belle had hoped and Selena expected, Lon arrived at their wagon in time to eat the evening meal with them.

"Lon!" cried Josiah, slapping his tall friend on the back, as the two friends shook hands. "I was afraid we'd seen the last of you until California."

"It's mighty good to be here," replied Lon, glancing at Selena. "I'm glad you came to a place with enough feed to stop and let the animals eat and rest for a few days or we never could have caught you. You've made good time."

"And you've made better than we did," said Josiah smiling, "thanks to Belle."

"Now, Josiah," interrupted Belle, "there's no need to be saying that!"

"Why? What do you mean, Josiah?" Lon asked.

"Oh, all those rocks Belle has moved out of the road. Don't tell me you didn't see them as you went by."

"That's all right, Belle," Lon said, moving over and shaking hands with her. "Josiah knows

well enough that he has the best wife on the wagon train. Hope I can be as lucky when I get me a wife."

As he finished speaking, he turned and looked directly at Selena, taking her hand in his. She thrilled at his touch — and immediately resented it, that anyone could have this effect upon her, when the man she had loved lay in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. She resented even the thought of anyone taking his place.

With Alfred it was different. She enjoyed his company, his constant jesting. It gave a lift to her downcast spirits. That was all.

"Selena. . . ."

She dropped her eyes before the message she read in Lon's. "Selena, it's so good to see you again. I was sorry to miss seeing you that last night, but some of us were sent into the settlement on a last minute assignment. We had to go."

Of course! thought Selena. She might have expected Lon had some reason of that sort. His personal affairs would always come second to whatever he considered to be a call from authority. It wasn't, then, that he had not wanted to see her. She had wondered about it, and now that she had found out, it angered her a little. She was puzzled by her own illogical reasoning, resenting the effect of Lon's presence or his touch, yet hurt that he would consider other things more important than she was.

THE following morning the sun rose on a cloudless sky. By ten o'clock, the day gave promise of

426

YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

being the hottest of the trip to date.

"I'm glad we're not traveling today, Belle," said Selena as they finished their wash at the creek the men had dug away from the spring. "I think we needed the rest as much as the cattle and horses did." She looked away toward the clump of trees by which they had stopped their wagon. The shade looked very inviting.

"I know what you're thinking, Selena," said Belle, following her gaze. "I'd enjoy lying around in the shade a bit myself on a day like this, but Josiah says there's no time to waste, that we've got to get to California and get some crops in as soon as possible."

"I realize that," answered Selena, "but at least we can rest in the shade for awhile this morning. We've finished the wash. What's left that needs doing right now?"

"Hay," answered Belle, picking up the pile of wet clothes.

"Hay?"

"Yes. This tall grass that the cattle have been enjoying so. Josiah says we'll never find any more of it until we get across the desert. Lon was there at the wagon this morning, after you left to go to the spring. He suggested that we repack the wagon, putting the things we must have every day near the back where we can get at them, then fill every wagon with the grass. The men have scythes to cut it, but the cattle have eaten it so far back away from camp that all the women and children will help carry it to the wagons and tramp it in."

Selena sighed, her hopes for a pleasant, restful day vanishing. She went alongside of Belle, doing her share, though Belle cheerfully offered to carry it for her. Back at the wagon she climbed in and tramped it down as firmly as she could, after it reached too near the wagon cover for Belle to get in and help. There were stickers in among the grasses that clung to her dress and scratched her legs through her heavy stockings. Late in the afternoon they stopped for a bite to eat and Alfred came by. He peered into the wagon and laughed heartily.

"What is this? A haystack? You going to take it with you and set it down in your field in California? You won't need half that much to cross this little desert."

He walked on, still chuckling. Selena, hot and tired and dirty, sat trying to pull the stickers and burrs from her clothing.

This was like Lon, she decided bitterly. Always going to extra lengths of precaution when half as much preparation would probably have been enough. Hadn't they followed the trail many weeks and never been without grass yet? There was no room now for her to sleep in the wagon, so she moved her quilts out under the stars. She was completely exhausted and slept soundly through the oppressive heat of the night.

SELENA awakened after Belle and Josiah were up, and as Belle opened the back flap on the wagon she called, "That grass really sank low in the night. We've only got half a load."

"Half a load?" Selena watched Josiah come up and look into the wagon. "That grass didn't sink anywhere. Someone stole it!"

She saw the look of anger on

427

JUNE 1964

Josiah's face as he walked away hurriedly. She knew that Josiah suspected Alfred. She also knew there would not be an easy way to prove it. There had certainly been others besides Alfred who had thought it unnecessary to fill their wagons so full.

After rolling up her bedding, Selena propped a mirror against the spokes in the wagon wheel, removed the pins from her long, dark hair and began brushing it, enjoying the clean feel of it. Just then Josiah returned to camp, Lon beside him.

"I thought it was mighty strange yesterday that he was so all-fired unconcerned about filling his wagon," Josiah was saying. "I think you're wrong, Lon, this time. Seems to me we should let him know we're on to the trick."

"You can't prove it, Josiah," said Lon. "Best thing to do is just let me take this fork and help you fill it up again. There's still some cut that wasn't carried in last night."

Selena looked at Lon, startled. He stood there, strong and handsome, head bared, exactly as she had seen him a long time ago, and he held the fork as he had the shovel, throwing great thuds of earth into an open grave at Winter Quarters.

Now began the most dreadful part of the journey, as the Lyman group moved ahead. This was the stretch from Resting Springs to the Mojave River, leaving the other party to take advantage of the feed and water they were leaving.

"We'll reach Salt Springs first," said Josiah, as the wagon train

moved slowly along under the blistering sun. "Captain Hunt says we'll appreciate the water in our own barrels then, warm and brackish or not."

And now, surprisingly to many, the road began to make a steady climb in the desert country, adding to the burden of both people and animals in the devastating heat. Selena began to feel the stickiness of her clothes. For several days there could be no water used for washing purposes. Every drop must be carefully hoarded to preserve the life of beast and man alike.

The sandy floor of the desert was hot to the touch as they spread out bed covers at night, yet often, before morning came, the cold desert night caused the travelers to welcome a covering. Upon arising, there was no water to be used for washing faces. Selena felt the sand, which arose in a cloud from the movement of so many horses and cattle heavy in her hair under her sunbonnet.

A cheer went up when, at last, the straggly growth of trees marking Salt Springs came into view.

"You will find the water all right to do some washing," said Brother Lyman, riding back along the line. "But drinking it will only add to your thirst. Too much will make you sick, and if the animals are allowed to get to it, they will drink too much and we are certain to lose some of them."

JOSIAH, Belle, and Selena walked together to the spring. It ran clear and looked deceivingly clean and cool.

"It looks all right to me," Belle said, dipping her hand into

428

YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

the water. "I wonder if they're sure this is the spring that tastes so awful."

Josiah looked at his wife. "Belle, both Brother Lyman and Captain Hunt passed through here not so long ago. I think you can take their word about the water."

"But it looks so good," said Belle, dropping to the ground. "I'll just take a little taste." She cupped her hands and lifted them full to her mouth. Josiah looked at Selena, shaking his head.

"Phew!" Belle exclaimed. "I think I'm poisoned!"

"You heard what Brother Lyman said," Josiah reminded her, "that it was possible to do just that. Only he expected the people to have enough sense not to drink the foul-tasting stuff. It was only the animals that he felt must be kept away from it."

"Salt Springs!" Belle spoke disgustedly. "I thought all along I could stand the taste of a little salt, rather than that hot stuff in the barrels, but this is just terrible. If Bitter Springs tastes any worse than this, I'd like to taste it!"

"And you probably will," her husband agreed.

"We can wash, anyway," Selena said, as she lifted the water to her face. It stung her sunburned cheeks, but still she welcomed having her face feel clean once more. When there was time she would wash her hair. Right now there were other things to be washed.

"Come on, Selena," said her sister. "Let's get our clothes that need it the worst and get busy before the spring gets too crowded."

THE stop there was only for the night, and on the morning they began making their weary way on toward Bitter Springs. The sparse growth of salt grass that they found now offered no hopes of replenishing their fast-diminishing hay supply. There was no riding in the wagons now. The sandy floor of the desert was left behind and the road lay continually uphill, the rocky terrain making walking difficult.

Selena found herself thinking that this part of the journey was something of a triumph; that nothing she would ever experience in the future in the way of physical discomfort would probably equal this. Her tongue began to feel swollen and thick and her parched lips broke into blisters. For two days she had not seen Alfred and was glad that she did not have to smile at his jests.

Talking began to take too much effort in the blazing sun and it was a quiet, solemn group who toiled on in the intense heat. That night was a dry camp, for the entire water supply was exhausted. Then, when the news was sent back that the Mojave River was within the day's journey, cheers were given and steps quickened, glad that stops such as the one at Bitter Springs had been brief.

Belle saw Quale that night returning toward their wagon with Selena. Belle watched her sister smiling up into the man's lowered face. Impatiently, Belle wished for the remainder of the trip to be done with so that Lon could be around permanently. Events were moving swiftly toward some kind of crisis. Belle wondered what it would be.

(To be continued)

429

Gretchen Stratton Makes
Prize-Winning Pillows

Gretchen Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah, makes lovely decorative pillows for her friends and relatives. In 1963, her beautiful pillows, in designs of harmonious colors and exquisite stitchery, won first place at the Washington County Fair. This award was all the more notable because this dear sister has been blind for fourteen years. She has been a counselor in her ward Relief Society, and each year she gives The Relief Society Magazine to her daughters and daughters-in-law for their birthdays. Sister Stratton is mother to eight, grandmother to twenty-eight, and great-grandmother to twenty-four.

[PHOTOGRAPH]
