The Restoration President Antome R. Ivins Of the First Council of Seventy HIS dispensation of the GOSPEL was initiated by the vision given to the lad Joseph Smith Jr. In the Sacred Grove near Palmyra, New York. In it the Prophet was told that he should not affiliate himself with any of the then existent church groups, and that the time would come when, if he were to live properly, he would be the instrument whom the Lord would use to re-establish the TRUTH among the people. In this vision the great confusion regarding the personality of Jesus Christ and God the Father was cleared up. In reality, it was a verification of the promise made to Peter when Christ told him that he would establish his Church upon the revealed testimony that he is the Son of God, for God introduced Christ to Joseph Smith as his Son. Some time after this first manifestation, the Prophet had others in which he was given much instruction and was prepared to receive the plates from which The Book of Mormon was translated. This book is a second testimony of the ministry of Christ in which many of the least understood principles of the gospel are clarified. In Second Corinthians, Chapter thirteen, verse one, we read, "In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established." 'The Bible, alone, seems to have been unable to bring people to a unity of faith, and many factions of Christianity were struggling for supremacy at the time of these manifestations to the Prophet. Page 212 A second witness was clearly needed. These events were preparatory and initiatory to the re-establishment of the Church in the earth. Other things were necessary before the organization of the Church, especially the restoration of the Priesthood, for Priesthood is necessary for the performance of the various ordinances practiced in the Church. On the isth day of May, 1820, John the Baptist conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery at which time he gave them notice that, at a future time, the Melchizedek Priesthood would also be given them. Before the Church was to be given a formal organization, Peter, James, and John appeared unto Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood. 'That all of this should happen before the organization of the Church was imperative to make it authoritative. It will be noted that Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were instructed by John the Baptist to baptize each other, after having received the Aaronic Priesthood. 'Thereafter a few other persons were likewise baptized to qualify them to meet the requirements of the law of the State of New York, in that to organize a church six men were necessary. <Accordingly, on the 6th day of April, 1830, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was given a legal existence within the State of New York. These events all hav- THE RESTORATION ing happened, there was now upon the earth, again, a Church which was set up under direct authorization from God. In addition to these gifts of Priesthood, there were certain special authorizations necessary. In the temple at Kirtland, as recorded in the 110th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, we have the record of the visitations, in vision, of Moses, Elias, and Elijah, each of whom conferred upon the Prophet and Oliver keys for special functions of the Priesthood. 'These referred to the gathering of Israel, the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, and the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children and of the children to their fathers. (If there ever was a time when fathers should take greater interest in their children and when children should pay greater respect to their parents than right now, your humble servant cannot call it to mind.) HE Church functions through its Priesthood. 'The rights and privileges of the various offices in the Priesthood are set forth in The Doctrine and Covenants with great clarity. We recommend that all become familiar, not only with the offices of the Priesthood, but also with the responsibilities and functions incident to each office. Many people appear not to appreciate their position after accepting ordination therein. It will appear that in granting these keys of the Priesthood there is now, within the Church, the right to perform every ordinance necessary for the salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of God. All of these rights centered in the Prophet 213 Joseph Smith. When the Apostleship was bestowed by the Prophet upon a Council of Twelve men, they were given these keys which they should exercise always under authorization of the President of the Church, a provision necessary to assure that these powers would carry on even in the case of the death of a President. In the Aaronic Priesthood there are three orders — deacon, teacher, and priest — each with specific nghts and responsibilities, while in the Melchizedek Priesthood there are two general offices — the elder and the high priest — and the Presidency of the Church, the Council of the 'Twelve, the Seventies, and the Patriarchs which are highly specialized. To control the use of the powers of the Priesthood, the people are organized into stakes and _ wards under authorized leadership. Ward activities are directed by three high priests called a bishopric. 'Their function is a dual one since they have to care for the temporal needs of the members of the wards and, at the same time, direct certain spiritual functions. The stakes are directed by three high priests — a stake presidency — from whom the bishops and all other stake officers take direction. 'This makes it possible for the general leadership of the Church, through stake presidencies and bishoprics, to reach the individual members, when _necessary, with a minimum of effort. Outside of the wards and stakes live many members of the Church. To care for them and carry on the proselyting work of the Church, there are fifty missions organized each under the direction of a mis- 214 sion president. 'The missions are divided into districts and branches with the necessary local leadership and, here again, close contact with the members is possible. Since every worthy man may have the privilege of the Priesthood, and since most men who accept it feel a certain responsibility to qualify for the implied service, there is a greater lay-member power for religious leadership than can be found in other church organizations. Member participation is the strength of every virile organization and this ls especially true of those of religious nature. S aids to the Priesthood there are the Auxiliary Organizations set up with local and general supervision. Of these we are, at the present writing, especially interested in the Relief Society. This Society was brought into existence under the direction and special call of the Prophet Joseph who, when organizing it, set forth the purposes and functions of the Society. It was composed entirely of women who set about finding ways and means of helping people in distress. Wath but few members at the time, it has now grown to great membership and the amount of good accomplished by it is beyond computation. Through stakes and missions it reaches into almost all parts of the world. Reports of its activities come from such far distant places as Japan, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, and elsewhere. Who can doubt the inspiration of the Prophet in its organization? We have, then, in the RESTTORATION a renewed testimony of the personality of God and Jesus Christ; a restoration of Priesthood in all its functions which came by direct gift through heavenly beings who had been sent by Jehovah himself; a renewed type of Church organization which gives the best possible means of satisfying the spiritual and temporal needs of the children of God. >i