PLANTERS FOR THE PATIO secured to the widowframe with angle braces. Around this slab, and protruding one half-inch above the surface, I nailed a wide strip of weather-stripping which serves as a hip to prevent slipping of window boxes and as an ornament. Window boxes trimmed with redwood bark and planted with Madeira vines make a picture of the windows and soften the severity of the firebrick walls. Carrying out the theme in the garden, the fifteen-feet circle, which is my ims garden, is only foliage from June on. 'To fill this space with color, depth, and _ interest, planters and stands proved an aesthetic answer. Large boxes 10" x 10" x 27" filled with Maytime petunias, and resting on iron stands, backed by taller merchandise-display stands, loaded with tiers of planters filled with Pink Wizard petunias, which carried out both depth and height to the color picture, carry summer color out, up, and back to the background of Persian lilacs. A nail keg, cut wide at the mouth and bearing a rich redwood coat, holds a_ growing bouquet of dwarf dahlias and fills the center spot. Each year teaches me a little more about color effects and timing, but I key my whole garden color scheme to the phlox which, in this locality, are at their height in 253 patio season. A planting of City of Portland (melon pink) cannas is lovely in an Oriental keg with lower-growing related plants such as chin-cher-chin-chee or gladioli blooming around them. The small boxes that fit the flower cart are made of cut-to-measure finished redwood and planted with coleus, geraniums, and fibrous begonias. To keep planters off the floor and allow drainage, which is provided for by bored holes, I use rubberheaded furniture protector pins or rubber caster cups nailed on upside down. Planters frequently need moving for convenience or for obtaining sun and shade as required for plant growth. 'This chore is made simple by use of a few homemade dollies. One wide board cut the proper length for fitting the planter, reenforced by a cross piece at either end, is made mobile by screwing casters to the cross pieces, one in each corner. [f no wide wood is available, the crosspieces make it easy to hold narrower lumber together. Homemade dollies have two advantages over commercial ones, they cost less and can be made to fit the need. The casters of the type that screw to the bottom of things can be bought at most hardware stores for a_ reasonable price. tien Dan isan Sewing for a Best-Dressed You Wilma M. Rich you always look as if you had stepped straight from the pages of Vogue!" my neighbor reflected aloud one day. "How do you do it?" "By sewing all my own clothes," I answered simply. With a wail close to tears, she asked, "But how? I sew, too, but I come closer to looking as if I've splurged at a third-rate rummage sale instead. What makes the difference?" What does make the difference? Expensive materials? Four hundred dollar sewing machines? Extensive sewing courses? Or just taking a few specific pains and double checking? Speaking from experience, I've discovered that good quality materiai and a smooth-running machine do help, as do hours of experience and learning; but the big thing that makes the big difference is learning to eliminate a few simple mistakes. Mistakes most often made by beginners as well as experienced seamstresses can be wiped quickly and easily from the slate and thus save frustrated tears and chucked away, half-finished clothes. But how? Well, to explain easily, let me list the "don'ts" to watch out for and leave the "do's" to the pattern you choose to create with. First of all, Pll generalize with one tremendous don't that briefly overheads all smaller ones: Don't shortcut! The others follow and are all of importance. Page 254 1. Don't begin your article until you are completely familiar with your pattern, material, and sewing machine. If you do, it is like putting your confidence in numerous, strange business partners. 2. Don't underestimate the value of markings on your pattern pieces. Use them to full advantage. Having a dot or a broken line to follow may save many precious moments and stitches. 3. Don't choose at random the kind of seam for your garment. Investigate types of seams for different types of clothing and complement your article with the best seam possible. 4. Don't feed material under the needle too fast and turn out faulty, uneven seams. Anyone can sew fast, but only an expert can sew Straight. 5. Don't leave seams unfinished or depend entirely upon pinking shears for finishing seams. Leaving a seam unfinished is like leaving a cake un-iced, and pinked edges are only effective on certain materjals. All materials fray; only finished seams keep unruly threads intact. 6. Don't neglect to clip curves and trim seams when the pattern calls for it. Carelessness may produce puckers and humps and look very unattractive. 7. Don't fight "the battle of the bulge." If bulges crop up in obvious profusion, don't try to push or pry them out, the result may be hazardous. Get to the base of the problem and work it out deftly from where the bulge begins. 8. Don't cover one mistake with another. Two wrongs don't make a right. Undo the first and the second will take care of itself. G. Don't scowl at and skip around the word "'baste'" on a guide sheet. It is put there for your benefit and will simplify your job immensely. Take the extra time that says you care. THIRTEEN DONT'S IN SEWING FOR A BEST-DRESSED YOU 255 10. Don't tack by machine in conspicuous places. It may spare you a moment, but will cost you that fashion-lovely look you desire. 11. Don't pull gathers haphazardly. The tiny gathers determine the graceful curve of a sleeve and the full, flaring drape of a skirt. Make them precise. 12. Don't finger-press. Use an iron so your seams, pleats, tabs, and plackets will lie flat and even. 13. Above all, don't sew under stress. An hour of mistakes may be avoided by a twenty-minute relaxation break. To sum up: Don't take your sewing for granted. 'Take time, use care, and be tolerant and patient. You'll discover a whole new world of delight ahead and an exquisite, fashion-fancy, new you. Un told Paanive Vesta N. Fairbairn Like an opening flower, Like morning's dawnlight hour, Like the unread page, Like spring's first breath of sage, Like untried chords and tone Of a song, unsung, unknown, Like mystery of earth Is each year's joyous birth. Noo nl, ight Celia Luce epee night was a gusty one, with the sky almost covered with clouds. The moon sailed behind the clouds, sending its light in a great glowing circle where the clouds were thin, and peeking through tiny holes in the thicker clouds. { watched with delight, but feared the display was about at an end. Ahead of the moon was a dark cloud that looked as though it was so deep and black there would be never a hole for the beauty of the moon to shine through. The moon crept on behind the dark cloud, but her radiance kept finding thin places and holes, and she went shining on. The cloud which had looked black and forbidding was made golden and beautiful by the moon's presence. There are times when life looks like the dark cloud. There doesn't seem to be anything ahead but the deepest of gloom. Then the wise person turns to the Lord in prayer. The light of God will shine through the gloom and scatter beauty over the path ahead. The light of the moon may not be fully appreciated on clear nights; but a few clouds spread the glow and add immeasurably to the beauty. We tum to God for help when the way ahead looks dark, and our lives are richer, more beautiful, for the clouds of sorrow we have seen. Do Lt Yourself Joy Hulme HE do-it-yourself urge with me is like yeast. Hidden away in my being somewhere are the tiny spores waiting for the proper frame of mind to nourish them. When a spark of thought warms them, and they are fed the sweet sugar of ambition, they begin to ferment and grow within me until I am filled with a bubbling effervescence for action, My husband Bill has choked down sandwiches for dinner many a time while he suffered through the worst and hoped for the better. My children have learned to make their own beds or open a can of soup for lunch in case of emergency. (emergency has a very liberal meaning at our house.) But the person who has needed the most understanding is my mother-in-law. Some supersensitive instrument must have been built into Bill's mother for her to detect when the yeast has come to a head, that she can always pick the day of my latest project to "drop in." It is almost as uncanny that | cannot predict her visits. I have not yet figured out what pattern they make on her closely followed schedule of things to do. I can predict a week, a month, or even ten years in advance that come Monday morning, she will wash. Tuesday, rain, shine, or hurricane, she will have the ironing finished by ten o'clock. So it goes. She has a time for everything. She never has spring or fall housecleaning as I do, when everything is turned excitedly upside down for two weeks and finally settled comfortably, Page 256 cleanly back. Each day she does some of those extra cleaning chores. She would never say on a fine spring Monday, "I think PI] just sit under the apricot tree and drink in the deliciousness of the air." I could. And, likely as not after studying the pleasing shape and arrangement of blossoms on the apricot bough, | would think, wouldn't that make a nice design for an etched aluminum tray? I'd make a circle of my fingers and, looking through it with one eye closed, move it closer and farther away from the flower-laden twig, until I had determined the placement of the spray in the design I was already forming in my mind. I really should make something for Mary Jean 'Thomas' wedding, I would think. And the bubbling was started in my brain. By afternoon I would be deep into the project. 'The dishes would still be in the sink and the floor littered with not quite perfect patterns that lay where I had dropped them in my zest to make a better once. My fingernails would be black with asphaltum, but on the tray the design would be painted in neat clean lines. About the time I would hold it up to admire the freshness of spring I had caught, Bill's mother would ring the bell, and I'm sorry to say, she would not catch any freshness of spring, but rather the choke of turpentine, as she came through the door. HE truth is I wanted to feel that way myself. My mother-in-law was everything I'd like to have been — calm, cool, collected. I yearned DO IT YOURSELF to be the competent master of my fate that she was. But efficiency was a conservative garment I wore only occasionally. I still kept it well pressed, hanging in the closet to slip on at a moment's notice, hoping for the chance to appear casually clad in it when my mother-in-law arrived; but I never had time to get it on. Last spring I thought I was cured forever and ever of the do-it-yourself business. It started one morning as [ lay in bed and saw a cobweb hanging from the ceiling. I looked around for more and noticed, not for the first time, the streaked green color of the walls and the dark spots by the light switch. "This room needs painting," I said. "Uh huh," agreed Bill who was always affable when he wasn't quite awake. The idea was only a_ vague thought. I could turn away from it. Sometime later I got to the mental game of choosing a color scheme, and the day I saw the paint sale at the hardware store, I knew there was no turning back. I don't like to paint at all, really, so the thought was in my mind to have Bill do it, although his uncooperative idea about all do-it-yourself projects was that they cost nearly as much as a professional job by the time you had bought the tools; that they didn't look so well; and besides (and mostly) that they were too much work. I didn't ever really expect Bill to do it, but just mentioning it was part of the process. Sometimes it took a good deal of impatience to get the yeast-like action going. After several days of hinting, I 257 finally said, "When are you going to paint the bedroom?" "You're not expecting me to do it, are you?" he asked. That settled that. Still I had had to eliminate the possibility that he might do it because I didn't want to, either. After that I took to measuring the room with my eye and approximately the number of strokes with the roller it would take to do each wall. I assembled the tools and materials needed so nothing would slow me down once I got that urge to get the job done. Still no urge. The yeast was getting old. It was one Monday morning, after a particularly peaceful week end, that my eyes swept the room with a new speed. The size of the walls diminished under my gaze, and the length of my arm sweep and the width of the paint roller were exaggerated by my _ exuberance. And today was Monday. Bills mother would be too busy with her washing to catch me in a mess. "T think ['ll just paint this room today," I said. "Uh huh,' mumbled Bill and rolled out of bed. Just paint this room today, indeed! That proved to be the understatement of the century. I started to pull up the covers on the bed but threw them back instead. Might just as well have clean sheets, too. I'd just toss them in the washer. As soon as Bill had gone to work and the older children were off to school, I stacked the dishes and started the painting. If only a roller or brush could sweep down a wall as fast as the eye thinks it can! I had failed to con- 258 sider the rough finish of the plaster. It took a great deal of pressure on the roller to force the paint into the recesses of the wall. Before long I was puffing with the effort. I paused and looked back to admire the spot I had finished. The thirsty plaster was drinking in the paint like a blotter. Instead of the clean oyster-white I had in mind, the spot was a dingy, pale, seasick green. Feeling a pale, seasick green myself, I turned back to my task with more determination but less enthusiasm. Pd have to hurry to get two coats done before Bill came home and saw that bilious color. Four-year-old Wayne appeared in the doorway. "Whyn't you give me 'prize?" he asked. ""An' not a kiss." "I don't have any surprises," I said, stretching to reach a little farther on the ceiling. "Run outside now and play in the sand pile." Finally, by staring him down, he said, "Okay," and the door slammed. By mid-morning my_ shoulders ached from pushing, and my neck was stiff from holding my head tipped back to look at the ceiling. I remembered the sheets in the washer and went to hang them out. Then the overflowing hamper of soiled clothes demanded attention. When I had put down my paint roller to hang clothes for the sixth time, I looked at the clock. Patty would be home from school any minute and could play with Wayne when he woke up from his nap. In another blessed hour Edward would be home from his paper route. He could help me with the second coat. I'd tried a swipe where the patat had already dried and it was the gleaming, clean color of an oyster shell. My spirits had revived somewhat, but I had given up on my time schedule. The woodwork would have to wait until tomorrow. Edward came in about four o'clock with his face looking like a storm cloud. "Finished your route already?" "No, I haven't started it. My bike won't work." "What's the matter with it?" "The fender drags on the wheel." "Can you fix it?" "I just have to tighten up a screw." "Go tighten it then. What's all the fuss about?" "T can't reach the screw without taking the wheel off. Ill need a little help." Edward and I have an_ unexpressed understanding between us. I will give him help when he needs it, and he will do the same for me. It is very fine to have a son like that. We had the wheel off his bicycle and the guilty screw tightened in a few moments, but couldn't get the axle nut tightened after we replaced the wheel. After working for half an hour, we discovered the threads were stripped. We were rummaging in the odds-and-ends box looking for a new part when the phone rang. It was Mr. McCloud wanting to know why his paper hadn't been delivered yet. "Get in the car,' I said to Edward. "I'll take you around your route." I called to Patty to wash the breakfast dishes and set the table for supper while she watched Wayne. "All right," she said. Patty is a delightful child. "Please help me with my arithmetic, when you get back," she called. HAT night when Bill and I crunched our way to bed across DO IT YOURSELF the newspaper-strewn floor, he said, "We should have hired John Olson to paint this room." "We couldn't afford it,' I reminded him. He acted as if [Pd reduced the resale value of the house at least five hundred dollars by doing the job myself, and we couldn't afford that either. "It will look better with a second coat," I assured him, pointing to the spot I'd gone over twice. "I hope so." He sounded dubious as he turned out the light. The next day I painted with the greatest care. I went over every spot until not a speck of green was showing. 'The enamel on the woodwork was brushed and brushed and not a drop allowed to run. [ painted around the window glass with a meticulousness unheard of by professional painters. 'This took a good deal of time, however, and by afternoon I could see I wouldn't finish this day either. I sank wearily into a chair. I felt the enthusiasm escape from me in tired little puffs. This time the yeast had risen too high. 'Tomorrow I would start being efficient like Bill's mother. I'd make a schedule and leave no time on it for my crazy schemes. Tomorrow when the painting was finished, that is. I picked up a paper and pencil and made a few notes: Monday, wash; Tuesday, iron. I may be slow to get started, but at least I'm not a quitter, and the next morming I was at my task early. This was very much to my credit, for the air outside was like bubbling gingerale—sparkling, cool, imviting. Bill's enthusiastic "'Not bad. Not bad, at all," when he saw 259 the room, had given my spirits the lift they needed. I marveled at my luck that my mother-in-law hadn't caught me in the worst of all messes. No sooner had this thought crossed my mind than a car crossed the intersection and drove to a stop in front of the house — her car. I quickly wiped the paint from my arms, peeled off my dirty clothes, and slipped on a clean dress. I sprayed air freshener in a thick choking fog to dissipate the paint odor and shut the bedroom door. WHEN the bell rang for the secone time, I called, "Come in," from the kitchen where I'd started to wash breakfast dishes. I had to look twice to make sure it was Bill's mother. No crisp gingham today. She was wearing an old skirt, and one of Dad's faded shirts. My mouth was so busy being open she was the first to speak. "I came to help you," she said, "with the painting." She should have been a detective. I thought my quick camouflage had been complete. "How did you know?" "I heard from Bill and I see paint on your nose," she said simply. "Where's a brush?" "But today is your day to clean the linen closet." I had memorized her schedule by now. "Forget the linen closet. Who will know a hundred years from now if I cleaned it today or not?" "Mother, sit down. Do you feel all right?" "IT haven't felt better for thirtyfive years." 260 "Will you explain what's happened to you?" "Nothing happened to me. 1 happened to it. Emancipation ProcJamation." I decided I'd better humor her. I was afraid something had snapped in her well-disciplined mind. "What did freeing the slaves have to do with you?" I asked. "T have just freed myself from being a slave — a slave to my house, to my work. But, mostly, to my schedule. I burned it." "Burned your schedule?" "Yes, I wanted to be like you. Master of my fate." "But I'm not master of my fate at all. You're the one." "Oh, yes, you are," she said. "If you want to do something, you do it. 'm always wanting to come over to see what new and exciting things you are doing." The new, exciting things she was talking about rushed in a quick procession through my mind — the etched trays, the ceramic figurines, the floats for the children's parades, raisins drying in the sun, copper tooling, mosaics, piecing quilts. The line was long. It had been fun. "You've taught your children to do all sorts of things," she went on. "You are never too busy to help them learn." I hadn't really taught them, just let them work with me. 'They were so eager, and their small fingers responded skillfully. It was true they had learned to do many things both to help and for fun. I crumpled the paper I had started writing my schedule on_ last night, and dropped it in the waste basket on my way to the bedroom. "Let's hurry and finish the painting," I said, "and then how would you like to ride up the canyon and take a picnic?" "Td lave to,' Mother answered. "We could get some river stones so I can get started on that rock garden I've wanted so long." One thing I didn't know about do-it-yourself until then. It's contagious. O<--