LESSON 4 Social Service Fourth Week in January Personality 'Study: Making Ideas Stick.

Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 110-139, Those who enjoyed the last lesson will be glad to know that we are now to make a new and interesting approach to the same subject.

How much does the succesful use of one's mother tongue in speech and writing depend upon our ability to cross the interest dead-line!

Or to put the problem another way, how can we make the ideas we express "stick" in the minds of those whom we address?

If we can do these things, says Overstreet, "'we have the world with us.

If we cannot, we may as well retire." Consistent with the fundamental point of view of all of these interesting discusions on influencing human behavior we are again reminded of the personality problem involved.

The great majority of us fail to cross the interest dead-line and to make our ideas stick because we have acquired habits that make us extremely commonplace in all our communication.

We thoughtlessly adopt time-worn modes of expression that have long since lost their vitality.

Our remarks about the weather, about politics, religion, poetry, music, art, scenery, science, etc., etc., are almost exclusively made up of stock-expressions borrowed from who knows.

Where.

Even our prayers too often consist almost entirely of these borrowed and stereotyped expressions which we utter in a perfectly thoughtless and automatic way.

We smile when we hear of oriental people using prayer-wheels, yet fail to recognize that some of our own _ prayers contain elements almost as mechanical and monotonous.

Just notice the tendency in yourself to 632 use in very glib and galloping fashion phrases that have become mere words—euphonious and high-sounding to be sure, but still mere empty words.

We need not here illustrate specifically.

Surely in the future we can put more of our own personalities into our prayers at least.

They may be more halting, but they will be more appropriate and will express more truly our sincere desires and deepest yearnings.

That trait about us which makes us lazy and conventional to the extreme in our prayers to our Heavenly Father also is responsible for much the same thing in our communication with each other.

These devitalized and over-worked expressions are called cliches (kle shaz) and the type of people who use them over-much are said to have cliche minds.

These people are also referred to as bromides. (See any good dictionary. ) We all recognize that there are people with quite other habits.

They have refreshingly new and original ways of expressing themselves not only in speech but also in other forms of behavior.

They seem to do their own thinking with relatively little regard for tradition or custom.

You never can be sure what they will say or do.

Such people are called sulphites. (Look up this term also in the dictionary.) When a bromide is speaking or praying a stenographer who has heard him before can often keep several sentences ahead of what he is saying at a given moment.

It is all just so much "animated boiler plate." But not so with the sulphite.

What he says will at least be different.

It may be impossible or even shocking but it will not bore you.

A bromide at his best, if his comniunication is not ignored, may help to pass on useful and well tried things from our great social inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE heritance, The sulphite at his best (sometimes he is a mere crank) will present old truths in new and striking ways, he will probably help add to the good things that come down to us from the past and there need be no "if"' expressed about his communication being ignored.

He is bound to cross the interest dead line and the ideas he expresses are almost sure to stick.

By way of summarizing this discussion of bromides and _ sulphites we may quote briefly from Gelett Burgess.

He says, "The Bromide does his thinking by syndicate.

He follows the main-traveled roads, he goes with the crowd.

In a word, they all think and talk alike—one may predicate their opinion upon any given subject.

Their habits of thought are all ready made, proper, sober, befitting the average man. '""A Sulphite is a person who does his own thinking, he is a person who has surprises up his sleeve.

He is explosive.

One can never foresee what he will do, except that it will be a direct and spontaneous manifestation of his own personality." (Quoted by J. R. Slater in Freshman Rhetoric—Selections, pp. 62- 65.) The two short chapters of our present lesson should be read with these personality considerations always in mind.

Am I too much of a bromide?

What are some of the many cliches which I might well begin to eliminate from my conversations and my letter writing particularly?

Am I more of a sulphite than I should be?

Do I tend to shock people for the mere sake of shocking them or does good actually result from the stimulus of my unconventional expressions?

Am | able to listen creatively to a dry _speech which would otherwise bore me?

When one listens thus creatively one is kept alert by the GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY | effort to formulate more effective ways of putting over a vital message 'on the same subject.

In my effort to get people to think am I supplying the indispensable incentives for thinking—the vivid presentation of interesting quandaries or dilemmas which demand solutions? (See Poulson—Human Nature, pp. 120-128.) Se?

Problems for Discussion 1. Ask some newspaper man or printer what is meant by "boiler plate" or "plate matter." Can you recognize material printed from this stuff in your local paper?

Why is it held in such contempt? 2. Make a list of twenty or thirty cliches heard by you within a week in public addresses or over the radio, such as "bigger and better," "I feel like responding to the call," "taken entirely by surprise," '""my mind is a perfect blank," etc. Suggest more original and otherwise better ways of expressing some of the same ideas. 3. Explain what type-of person is referred to as a bromide; a sulphite.

Which type in your opinion, acting as a teacher would stimulate the most worthwhile class discussion?

Give reasons.

Which type would make the best missionary?

Why? 4. (a) In the best: sense: of the word what is meant' by originality? (b) Comment' on the following Statement: "Originality is thé capacity to rearrange old ideas into 633 new relations." "The truly independent thinker does not make less use of other men's ideas than the servile thinker, but more. <A good definition of intellectual independence is reasoned dependence." 5, Consider this statement from Colvin and Bagley: "Since thinking comes only when a problem is ' presented or a situation faced, only when a crisis in our behavior arises, it follows that, to stimulate thought, we should confront (people) with actual problems." How is this related to what is presented in our text on pages 115 to 122? 6,. Attempt to classify each of the following as either a Bromide or a Sulphite and offer your reasons in each case: Hamlet, Polonius, Bernard Shaw, Marie Corelli and Bildad (a character in the Book of Job). 7, What common defect of scientific and philosophic discussions tend to make them lack vital interest?

To what extent are many religious discussions characterized by similar defects?

How would you remedy them?

Be as specific as you can. 8. Discuss the following' statements from Overstreet in relation to this lesson: (a) "The mind is what it does.

Or better -still, the mind, becomes what it does." (b) "He who would influence human behavior can hardly do better than to proceed quite seriously and persistently to overhaul his verbal equipment." Gifts; By