[Vol17 | November 1930 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: What the Womens Movement Means to the World H. C. Singer]
What  the  Woman's  Movement  Means 
to  the  World 
By  H.  C.  Singer 
IN  most  countries  except  France 
women  have  attained  the  fran- 
chise ;  and  now  their  vision  is  wider 
and  varied,  although  constantly  to 
the  fore  is  the  incessant  demand 
for  equality.  From  national  issues 
women  turned  to  international  prob- 
lems and  their  solutions.  Even  in 
countries  where  the  franchise  has 
not  been  given  to  woman  and  gross 
inequality  in  the  law  still  prevails, 
the  struggle  is  not  alone  with  na- 
tional problems ;  organization  now 
tends  toward  international  coopera- 
tion, keeping,  however,  to  the  main 
element  in  hand — equality. 
Women  Organize  in  all  Countries 
Despite  the  varied  religions  of 
Europe,  some  holding  the  poor  con- 
ception of  woman  as  a  chattel,  we 
find  women  there  organizing  to 
maintain  their  rights.  Christian  or 
Moslem,  the  movement  is  definitely 
striving  to  place  woman  where  she 
should  be,  at  least  as  man's  equal. 
Women  of  the  United  States,  with 
its  varied  races  and  creeds,  Canada 
with  her  modern  and  ancient  ideas, 
and  Southern  American  Republics 
whose  theology  is  rooted  deep  in  the 
soil  of  antiquity — all  combine  to  de- 
mand equality  in  the  vast  struggle. 
IT  has  required  years  of  long, 
hard  work  to  educate,  persuade, 
and  thrust  the  ranks  of  woman- 
hood along  the  road  to  reach  the 
basis  (the  vote)  from  which  a  con- 
certed effort  could  be  made  to  the 
goal,  equality.  Even  in  Canada  the 
old  idea  of  chattel  contrasts  vigor- 
ously with  the  modern  growth  and 
theory  of   equality;   in   the  varied 
States  of  our  nation  attempts  have 
been  made  to  retain  and  preserve 
the  ancient  statutes  that  had  their 
origin  in  French,  Spanish,  and  Brit- 
ish laws,  and  were  founded  on  the 
old  idea  of  woman  as  a  chattel.  In 
South  America,  despite  the  ancient 
theory  and  French  and  Spanish 
laws  regarding  the  status  of  woman 
and  the  absence  of  sex  legislation, 
the  native  conception  of  the  superi- 
ority of  womanhood  seems  to  have 
had  a  decided  effect. 
Both  in  Great  Britain  and  in  the 
United  States  the  conception  of 
woman's  rights  now  tends  towards 
equality,  although  in  the  latter  coun- 
try a  strong  obstacle  istill  exists 
among  the  women's  ranks  against 
equality  because  of  varied  state 
laws.  France  still  refuses  to  grant 
her  women  franchise  (and  very  few 
women  are  even  concerned  about 
it),  while  Great  Britain  still  in  many 
ways  denies  her  women  equality; 
and  Argentina  only  a  few  years  ago 
gave  woman  absolute  equality  in 
civil  rights. 
Two  Groups  in  the  Movement 
IT  has  been  common  of  late  years 
to  look  on  all  women's  organiza- 
tions or  groups  as  part  of  the  move- 
ment; and  while  this  view  is  but 
natural,  it  is,  of  course,  erroneous. 
While  there  exists  a  unity  of  aim 
in  the  movement,  there  is  naturally 
a  diversity  in  the  method  of  reach- 
ing the  common  goal.  Most  groups 
in  Great  Britain  are  organized  for 
professional  rather  than  political 
reasons,  although  seeking  through 
their   associations   the    removal    of

614 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
discriminating  laws  in  their  voca- 
tions and  professions.  In  Canada, 
the  United  States  and  the  Southern 
Americas,  because  of  the  vast  size 
of  each  country,  the  organizations 
are  formed  on  a  geographical  basis 
rather  than  on  unity  of  thought  as 
in   Great   Britain  and   Europe. 
As  with  all  organizations,  the 
movement  breaks  into  right  and  left 
wings.  In  the  geographical  group- 
ings it  is  but  natural  to  find  a  di- 
versity of  opinions ;  and  in  the  last 
few  years  matters  have  virtually 
come  to  a  head  in  the  two  groups 
named  "The  International  Alliance 
for  Suffrage  and  Equal  Citizenship" 
and  the  "International  Council  of 
Women."  In  the  past  all  efforts 
were  directed  towards  safeguarding 
and  promoting  the  peace  of  the 
world.  It  was  believed  by  the  offi- 
cials of  certain  organizations  that 
women's  efforts  and  duties  lay  in 
social  reform,  while  an  opposite 
group  contended  that  the  aims  of 
suffrage  and  equal  citizenship  should 
receive  the  major  portion  of  their 
efforts,  social  reform  to  be  consid- 
ered when  the  goal  of  equality  had 
been  achieved.  Thus  the  two  wings 
in  Great  Britain  are  called  "Femin- 
ist" and  "Social  Reformers."  In 
the  United  States  the  two  wings 
stand  respectively  for  equality  and 
for  a  wide  social  reform  program. 
Far-Reaching   Results    Certain 
Concerted  as  these  efforts  are 
throughout  the  world,  they  must  be 
productive  of  far-reaching  results. 
In  some  countries  suffrage  came 
easily;  in  others,  only  after  a  long 
and  bitter  fight,  For  over  fifty 
years  the  struggle  continued,  educa- 
tion being  the  sole  weapon  in 
France,  Great  Britain,  Canada  and 
U.  S.  The  action  in  Great  Britain 
and  the  United  States  at  last  passed 
to  the  left  wing,  which  became  mili- 
tant and  aggressive.  The  first  ob- 
jective of  the  franchise  was  quickly 
won ;  but  in  Canada  and  France 
educational  methods  still  prevail. 
SINCE  the  close  of  the  Great 
War,  the  left  wing  has  gained 
in  vitality.  Women's  zest  for  the 
authority  they  tasted  during  the  hec- 
tic days  of  war,  lures  them  on  in 
the  movement.  No  longer  timid 
and  resigned  in  their  desires  "that 
something  be  done"  in  matters  in 
which  they  are  interested,  but  now 
active  and  energetic  they  demand 
that  the  authority  to  which  they  ad- 
dress themselves  shall  answer  for 
its  responsibility  in  the  matter. 
Through  the  last  ten  years,  in- 
ternational conferences  of  women 
have  been  held,  but  the  active,  vital, 
and  energetic  force — the  left  wing 
— has  abstained  from  attending 
them,  and  has  been  content  to  swing 
into  action,  militantly,  as  the  time 
and  circumstances  have  demanded. 
At  present  the  movement's  eyes  are 
turned  towards  the  League  of  Na- 
tions, whose  clause  that  "All  posi- 
tions under  or  in  connection  with 
the  League,  including  the  Secre- 
tariat, shall  be  equally  open  to  men 
and  women,"  has  been  ignored,  since 
women  hold  only  substitute  and 
minor  positions  in  the  League  and 
its  activities.  Important  posts  are 
held  exclusively  by  men,  who  pre- 
dominate on  committees  and  com- 
missions until  the  lone  female  mem- 
ber feels  but  a  small  cog  in  a  big 
machine.  Consequently  the  move- 
ment feels  that  in  matters  relating 
to  women  and  children  women  are 
not  treated  as  men's  equal,  and  are 
discriminated  against  in  internation- 
al legislation  in  a  most  flagrant  man- 
ner. Particularly  is  this  true  in  the 
fields  of  employment,  where  women 
are  now  being  considered  as  com- 
petitors. It  is  but  fair,  however, 
to  point  out  that  the  League  Com-

WHAT  THE  WOMAN'S  MOVEMENT  MEANS 
615 
mittee  on  the  Traffic  of  Women  and 
Children  is  composed  of  an  equal 
number  of  men  and  women.  With 
this  exception  the  high  posts  are 
held  by  men. 
It  is  not  to  be  marvelled  at,  that 
under  the  experiences  which  the 
movement  has  undergone  in  the 
past,  the  active  and  energetic  left 
wing  should  jealously  guard  the  vic- 
tories it  has  achieved.  No  woman 
without  the  necessary  qualifications 
shall  represent  their  members  in  any 
deliberations ;  and  in  matters  con- 
cerning woman,  they  fully  intend 
that  the  wishes  of  women  shall  re- 
ceive due  consideration  and  be  fair- 
ly valued. 
Since  the  four  United  States 
women,  at  the  invitation  of  South 
American  women,  went  down  to 
Havana  in  1928  to  the  Sixth  Pan 
American  Conference  and  there  pre- 
sented an  Equal  Rights  Treaty,  the 
left  wing  has  swung  to  the  fore. 
Their  object  in  the  presentation  of 
the  Treaty  failed ;  but  from  their 
action  grew  an  inter-American 
Commission  of  Women  to  study 
political  and  civil  equality  of  the 
women  of  the  continent.  Simul- 
taneously with  the  American  wo- 
men's action,  an  English  woman, 
Elizabeth  Abbott,  a  foremost  fem- 
inist of  her  country,  was  appointed 
as  delegate  to  the  International  La- 
bor Organization  during  the  min- 
imum-wage discussion  in  Geneva ; 
there  she  represented  not  only  En- 
gland but  several  European  nations, 
and  did  very  valuable  work. 
Already  legal  experts  among  wo- 
men are  gathering  material  to  pre- 
sent before  the  Commission  of  Jur- 
ists for  Codification  of  the  Inter- 
national Law  at  the  Hague  in  1929. 
It  is  their  object  to  obtain  a  world 
wide  expression  in  the  matter.  They 
hold  that  nationality  shall  not  be 
affected  by  marriage  and  are  against 
the  inclusion  of  inequality  in  any  in- 
ternational code. 
It  is  clear  that  in  Europe  the  sum 
and  essence  of  all  actions  by  these 
movements  is  to  obtain  equality ; 
but  because  of  various  State  laws, 
this  is  not  realized  in  the  United 
States.  In  all  countries,  however, 
the  desire  is  that  women  shall  not, 
because  of  sex,  be  prohibited,  ex- 
cluded or  restricted;  and  that  no 
legislation  that  has  a  sex  basis  shall 
continue  to  exist.  Sex,  it  is  claimed, 
is  a  private  and  not  a  public  matter, 
and  women  of  the  movement  every- 
where desire  further  to  enjoy  life 
by  exercising  their  rights  of  citizen- 
ship, and  bearing  its  necessary  bur- 
dens free  from  legislative  sex  dis- 
tinctions. No  longer  do  women  in 
far  off  lands  feel  alone  in  their 
struggle.  The  years  have  drawn 
them  together  internationally.  Now 
they  view  each  other's  struggles 
with  sympathy,  and  gain  encourage- 
woman  is  nothing  but  a  chattel, 
ment  from  enfranchised  countries 
that  are  no  longer  under  the  oppres- 
sion   of    the    ancient    theory    that
