[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Singing Mothers, Bazaars, and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]

Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Marie Vesela CZECHOSLOVAKIAN MISSION, PRAGUE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, April 25, 1949
Sister Marie Vesela, Secretary, Prague Branch Relief Society, writes an interesting report of the history and activities of the society in this branch: "The Czechoslovakian Relief Society was founded in the year 1939 with Frantiska Brodilova as president, and five members in attendance. Martha Gaeth, wife of President Arthur Gaeth, was the second president. The spirit in the meetings was a real Latter-day Saint spirit and the lessons were prepared and translated especially for conditions in this gountry. During 1935-37
Josefa Komarkova was president and at this time many people visited the society. Sister Komarkova left the country to live with her married daughter in Salt Lake City. The year 1938, when Sister Martha Toronto presided, was filled with uncertainty and trouble and during the war the possibilities for this work were not great, but the members, especially in the Brno Branch, did not stop their work in Relief Society.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 5 In the year 1947, when Sister Toronto returned to Czechoslovakia, plans were made to bring the work to a higher level. It cost much work and endeavor, but slowly the number of the visitors increased. A great success in the Prague Branch was the year 1948-49 under the presidency of Anna Laura Woodland, missionary. Sewing was thought of as something all women enjoyed. But it was impossible to get material to work with. Sister Woodland wrote to her mother and asked her to send some sugar sacks and remnants that she had around the house. Soon we got the news that not only her mother was sending us many things, but also other sisters were donating thread, needles, pins, and materials to the Prague society. 'The joy and excitement of our women as they looked at the nice things are impossible to describe. The bazaar was a great success and brought us over 10,000
Krs. Or $200. We had 53 aprons, 15 tablecloths, and a large group of miscellaneous items, such as pillows, doilies, scarves, playsuits, and stuffed toys. Before the bazaar we had an interesting program, with musical numbers, a story, and readings. Refreshments were served and the highlight of the evening was a fashion show—first in the history of the Czechoslovakian Relief Society. After the program we retired to the winter garden where the articles of the bazaar were on display. Many women who started to visit our Relief Society programs became interested in the work of the Church and some of them have already become members and others will join soon. Although we still have more visiting friends than members in our meetings, the spirit is fine and encouraging and we enjoy the blessings which are connected with this work." Photograph submitted by Marie Vesela DOLL DISPLAY AT PRAGUE BAZAAR 
116 
Photograph submitted by Fannye H. Walker TAYLOR STAKE (CANADA), RAYMOND THIRD WARD SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to right: Mrs. George Court; Fern Spackman; Rae Smith; Josephine Hawk; Zina Anderson; Maybelle Anderson, chorister; Emma Dahl, at the piano. Second row, left to right: Fannye H. Walker; Ethel Jacobs; Ella Hancock; Zilphia Garrett; Phoebe Dahl; Mozelle Baker; Mabel Heninger. Third row, left to right: Angelina Witbeck, President, Raymond Third Ward Relief Society; Idelle Kenney; Lottie Graham; Lula Stevenson; Annie Adams; Helen Holt; Irene Halliday; Mrs. McGillivary; Mabel Salmon; Ruth Salmon; Madge Fairbanks. Lisadore B. Crookston is president of Taylor Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Pearl M. Andersen SHELLEY STAKE (IDAHO), RETIRING RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right: Ivy Goodsell; First Counselor Pearl M. Andersen; President Annie B. Johnson; Second Counselor Sarah W. Kirkham; Tressa Hunter. Back row, left to right: Lela Wiseman; Zetta Jensen; Ila Allen; Millie Bean; Anna Cook; Veta Dye; Thelma Thompson; Mable Roberts; Florence D. Hanney.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 117
This photograph was taken just prior to the release of these officers which became necessary when Elder Clarence F. Johnson and his wife Annie B. Johnson were called to preside over the Swedish Mission. Sister Andersen reports: "Sister Johnson was called to the presidency of Shelley Stake Relief Society in July 1938. She served humbly and successfully and under her leadership many major projects were carried out successfully. One of the more recent projects was the purchase of new electric machines by every Relief Society in the stake. Sister Johnson is richly endowed with a fine sense of knowing just the right thing to be done for each particular situation. Her keen intellect and ability to select the essentials and dismiss the unimportant details mark her as a great leader. All who have worked with her love her and wish Brother and Sister Johnson success and happiness in their new calling." Eva L, Clinger is the new president of Shelley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Beth Callister NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, MERCED BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAY AT THE 1949 COUNTY FAIR Left to right: First Counselor Ruby Wardrobe; Jean Brink; Barbara Gaines; June Cannon; Margaret Taylor; Esther Mae Fish; Harriet Moulton; President Beth Callister. Officers not in the picture are: Second Counselor Villa Stewart and SecretaryTreasurer Elizabeth Elcock. The Relief Society women of the Merced Branch were awarded the following ribbons for their outstanding entries: 74 blue (first place) ribbons; 46 red (second place) ribbons; 29 white (third place) ribbons. Beth Callister and Jean Brink won first and second places in the sweepstakes in the canned goods division. The women made a total of $414. Amelia E. Gardner is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society 118 | 
Photograph submitted by Lolo M. Shumway PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), MARICOPA INDIAN RELIEF SOCIET; MEMBERS DISPLAYING THEIR FIRST QUILTS Left, at the rear: Hazel Nelson of Phoenix Stake Board. Extreme right: Brother and Sister Sundust (first converts in this branch) and Lilly Harris of the Stake Board. Seated, center front: Lola M. Shumway, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Sister Shumway reports: "We are very pleased with the fine work of these women on the quilting project and the Indian women are, too. Three of our regular members were in the cotton fields the day the picture was taken. We have had a gradual increase in membership since we began with these sisters. Last week we had two more new members." i f J sf f '. APS: § oe — — — _ ite Seaeteps. = = j ' x Photograph submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist SWEDISH MISSION, GOTEBORG RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AT THE BRANCH BAZAAR Standing at the back, left to right: Albert Brandin, local missionary, husband of Maja Brandin, President, Goteborg Relief Society; Anna Sjoholm; Karen Stengruber; President Maja Brandin; Hilda Malmberg; Maria Bohlin. Ethel E. Blomquist is former president of the Swedish Mission Relief Society and Annie B. Johnson is the present president.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119
Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), STAKE OFFICERS AND SINGING MOTHERS WHO FURNISHED MUSIC FOR THE STAKE VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, October 28, 1949
Front row, left to nght: Edna T. Buss; Second Counselor Dessa B. Richins; Clarabell R. Harper; Hilda T. Halverson; Secretary-Treasurer Nina J. Langford; Stake Relief Society President Reka V. B. Parker; Nellie W. Neal, member general board of Relief Society. Second row, standing left of pulpit: Secretary-Treasurer Edith B. Williams; acting organist Vera Pettit; chorister Mabel E. Draper; First Counselor Erma V. Jacobs. An extensive display of handwork of all types was held in connection with the convention. A delicious luncheon was served to 225
Relief Society members. Photograph submitted by Ann M. Borg GRANT STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS CHORUS Front row, beginning fourth from the left: accompanists Grace Riches and Erma Barton; director Ann M. Borg. This chorus completed four major assignments during the past year, furnishing music for the Relief Society opening social, for morning and evening sessions of stake conference, for Relief Society convention, and for the March 6th stake program. Plans are underway for a song festival to be held in the amphitheater in Big Cottonwood Canyon sometime during the summer of 1949. Forty-seven members are enrolled in the chorus and baby tenders are provided for the practice periods which are held sometimes in the mornings and sometimes in the afternoons. One of the accompanists, Bernece Engeman was not present when the photograph was taken. Lorena L. Harline is president of Grant Stake Relief Society. 
120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1950
Photograph submitted by Winnie T. Graff OREM STAKE (UTAH) PAGEANT HONORS EARLY RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS March 17, 1949
Front row, left to right: Sherrie Ford representing Emma Smith; Oreen Walker as Eliza R. Snow; Enid Johnson as Zina D. Young; Uana Illingsworth as Bathsheba Smith; Emily Long as Emmeline B. Wells.
Back row, left to right: Winnie T. Graff, President, Orem Stake Relief Society; Blanche Nielson, author and reader of the pageant; Mary Rowley, representing President Belle S. Spafford; Dorothy Johnson as President Amy Brown Lyman; Lula Croft as President Louisa Y. Robison; Jennie Harris as President Clarissa Williams; Elaine Baxter, who played an accordion solo; Erma Swensen, who played an organ solo. | This beautiful pageant was presented in the Scera auditorium before a large audience.
Each character was introduced by the reader, Sister Wilson, and as the women entered Sister Swensen softly played ""O My Father" in memory of Eliza R. Snow, and Elaine Baxter played an accordian solo "My Mountain Home So Dear' in memory of Emmeline B. Wells. | _>- Living Design Eva Willes Wangsgaard The sun in the west is a luminous red, The snow is immaculate white, Deep blue the expanse of the sky overhead Where stars will stay hidden till night.
Unwind seven ribbons from that crimson ball; Divide them with six lanes of snow, And choose from the stars the brightest of all, Eight rows with six stars in a row. And cut from the blue of the heavens a square, Arranging the stars in their place, An ensign your heart ever after will wear And its glory will shine in your face. The Enjoyment of Literature (Continued from page 101) to him. The reader brings to the work personality traits, memories of past events, present needs and preoccupations, a particular mood and a particular physical condition. This, it seems to me, is the literary center in which the teeter board rests.
Become obsessed with literature as "'art for art's sake," and the balance of perfect rhythm is lost. See in literature only the practical elements of life, and a disproportionate end weight results.
Pure enjoyment comes as a result of balance. S a child I did not like to slide the teeter board far to one end of the pivotal base so that a child heavier than myself could teeter with me. The disproportion in looks and the uncertain rhythm was disconcerting. But give me a mate my own size to balance the board and, hands free, head back to the wind, I could teeter for hours. It is this freedom, this balance of mind and experience, that brings the fullest literary enjoyment, the most rewarding literary experience. In this rewarding experience lies the hope that good literature will influence our lives. It is rewarding to see a pattern of life that is familiar to us. We exclaim, "Why, I've done that very thing myself!' Or, "I know people just like that!" It is rewarding to see in the humor or the tragedy of a book the cue to our own fun, or our own sorrows. It is thus that the author shares with us his own clear vision.
There is no end to the enjoyment that literature may bring.
When we reach the stage where we seek more than enjoyment, then we can say to the artist, "Give me something fine in any form which may suit you best, according to your own temperament, and I shall enjoy it." How much mote interesting is Rolvaag's Giants in the Earth written to this form, this temperament, than an unadorned historical and generalized account of the same events would be. We need no preconceived, pointed-out evaluation for, since each brings to a work the color of his own experience, each will derive a different element from it. However, in teaching literature in the classroom, the teacher need not abdicate completely nor cease to exert an influence. But let the teacher's position be that of a quiet counselor not of an infallible mentor. Instead, let there be an informal and friendly analysis and evaluation and enjoyment.
Literature will then become a potent force in the educational process of developing critically minded, emotionally _liberated individuals who possess the energy and the will to create a happier way of life for themselves and for others. Page 121
Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 24—'Further Instruction to the Apostles" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 32, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, May 2, 1950
Objective: To show how clearly and forcefully Jesus instructed those who were to carry on his work after his crucifixion. Prophecies Relating to the Destruction of Jerusalem and the Lord's Future Advent ESUS left the temple on Tuesday of the last week. He had finished his ministry so far as the public was concerned. He started toward the beloved home in Bethany and rested for a time on the Mount of Olives. Only his disciples were with him. From their resting place on the Mount they had a wonderful view of the temple and the great city. His prediction that the temple would be destroyed caused some of the twelve to say to him, "Tell us when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?" It is clear that they understood that there was to be an event known to them as the "end of the world," and they wanted to know what signs would precede it. Jesus first warned them against being deceived. He frankly told them that no man knew the date of the glorious second coming of the Lord. Only his Father in heaven knew of the date. Page 122
Mark tells us that even the Son did not know (Mark 13:32). That the event was more remote than any of the disciples realized is very apparent. He told the apostles especially that they were to expect persecution. Some of them would be put to death because of the testimony of Christ. They were told that in the hour of need the Holy Ghost would inspire them as to what they were to say. The Lord told them to be patient in tribulation and that the blessing in the hereafter would so far outweigh the sufferings of this life that there would be no comparison. 'Their mission was to preach the gospel of the kingdom to all nations. 'They would meet opposition from false prophets and false teachers, but they were to persist in the face of all opposition. Their message would divide families and some children would even betray their own parents. Members of the Church would grow cold in the faith and turn away and only those who were faithful to the end of life would be saved. There would be wars and LSIWHO HO AWLL AHL NI ANILSATVd — ~~:. « a sagt tthe pile, 4
Men, < { ( if 4 vy fe - Go tO £ Go ye 4
Gifs d 3 = = i) = = NOIvOsv S Ane ri30 eo all Sy snLozv —~] VINNVE zr NOWNY J WddOr © SISLVBILNY ye een | 7 VINVSIVO @) 7 ™ a» ~y in iNY N '3 "yy, SINOR VIVGova aap tighyo vag Ye Ex) wuiQi,, aw, SVHIVNYS Payan a in Rau 'Baty, tuu., ns NS ry NOHO win Mite ty,. < "inp gy a = Z 'ing M4 \. Mia, sh, wr ae g: SS 4
Lue 4.) vas = FA '. Tes aah - @ sk.
Worirsap oy > i 2g Oe ASihee €Zl LNIWLYVd3d NOSSIl 124 rumors of wars, famines and earthquakes; in fact, peace would be taken from the earth. The Savior told them plainly what would befall Jerusalem in their day. "And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh" (Luke 21:20).
When this occurred, those who believed were to go to the mountains; and the suffering would be terrible, especially for mothers with babes, and for expectant mothers.
They were to pray that these tribulations would ° not be forced upon them in winter, for the suffering then would be horrible and without a parallel in Israel's history. 'The only comfort given was that the period would be cut short.
There was then to come a time when Satan would deceive the people of the world. '"Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken" (Luke 21:26). It would be well for class members to read all of the 21st chapter of Luke, and note 1 at the end of chapter 32 of the text, and also the 24th chapter of Matthew, as given in the Pearl of Great Price.
There was to be virulent persecution of the disciples, to be followed by cruel warfare.
Many of the "elect" would be deceived and would apostatize. 'The people would be deceived by priestcraft and false prophets.
Care should be exercised not to confound the signs and events of the Christian era with those of the latter days. Remember Christ's promise for this day is that the gosRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1950 pel of the kingdom shall be preached to all nations who will receive it before the glorious coming of the Lord in the last days.
That coming will be sudden and unexpected, but the faithful should always be ready for it. To indelibly impress on the minds of all faithful followers the need of watchfulness and faithfulness, Jesus gave to them the Parable of the Ten Virgins.
Matthew gave us our only report of this wonderfully illustrative parable (Matt. 25:1-13). The Need of Watchfulness and Diligence Illustrated by Parable The listeners were all familiar with oriental marriage customs. It was common for the bridegroom to go to the home of the bride and escort her to the place of festivities.
These events usually occurred in the evening and, as the bridal party approached the appointed place, organized groups with lamps and lighted torches would go out to meet it. The ten virgins were to join the welcoming party.
Only five, however, had oil in their lamps. The bridegroom was late and all of the virgins fell asleep.
Near midnight, criers announced his coming and called in haste: "Go ye out to meet him." The ten virgins immediately awakened and five of them were ready, but five of them had no oil for their lamps.
They sought in vain to borrow oil, but the others could not, or would not, spare any.
While the unwise virgins were out in quest of oil, the wedding party came and went on into the house where the festivities were being held and shut the door against all tardy comers. The five unwise LESSON DEPARTMENT virgins pleaded for admittance, but were denied because they were not among the attendants of either the bride or the bridegroom. The lesson is plain.
Jesus symbolizes the bridegroom. 'The Church on earth is his bride. 'Those who are prepared and ready to meet him will be received by him, while those who delay and are not ready will be rejected. The lamps symbolize the professions of faith and the oil "the spiritual strength and abundance which diligence and devotion in God's service alone can insure." The Parable of the Ten Virgins will, no doubt, suggest to each teacher many ways the lessons of the story may be used.
Solemnly the Lord said: "Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh" (Matt. 25:13). (See also D. & C. 45:56-59.) The same afternoon, while he was yet on the Mount of Olives, the Lord also gave the Parable of the Entrusted Talents (Matt. 25:14- 30). It may appear to some, on first reading, that the parable is the same as the story of the Pounds (Luke 19:12-27).
While the two should be studied together, they are different. In the first case, the story of the Pounds was told to a mixed audience, while the story of the Entrusted 'Talents was given in privacy to the most intimate of the Lord's disciples. In the story of the Pounds an equal amount of money was given to each of the servants, and each was rewarded or penalized, according to his diligence. In the story of the talents, the servants received dif- 125 ferent amounts "every man according to his several ability." In this case,. Also, the servants were equally rewarded for equal diligence even though greater gains were made by one servant than by the other. It is comforting to know that if we do our best with whatever gifts are given to us, we shall be accepted as well as one who works in wider fields. We are rewarded according to the effort we put forth. In both stories the servants who were unfaithful and negligent were condemned and punished. The Lord gave the Parable of the Entrusted | Talents to his disciples as he was about to leave them. He would leave his work with his servants but would hold each of them accountable. It is recommended that 1
Corinthians, 12 chapter, be studied. Those who have special talents should use them for the glory of God and the blessing of mankind or these talents may be taken from them. "Talents are not given to be buried, and then to be dug up and offered back unimproved, reeking with the smell of earth and dulled by the corrosion of disuse." The Inevitable Judgment The Lord's ministry was closed. The last of his illustrative parables had been given. He had given a plan of salvation that would save all who would obey and live it. He had instructed his special messengers in great detail and finally had promised in due time to come again to earth in "power and great glory:" When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: And before him shall be gathered 126 all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left (Matt. 25:31-33). The Lord pointed out in detail how his followers could best serve him. If they would give food and drink to those in need; clothe the naked and near naked; minister to the needs of the sick and afflicted, and, in brief, love their fellow men as themselves. "... Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). The righteous shall hear the glad welcome, "Come ye blessed of my Father," while the wicked shall be told to depart. The sure promise was made that Christ will return to execute judgment. Another Specific Prediction of the Lord's Death Then, in sadness, he said: "Ye RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1950 know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified" (Matt. 26:2). Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What prediction of the Savior brought forth the questions regarding the end of the world? Discuss the answers Jesus gave. 2. Distinguish between the signs and events of the Christian era and those of the latter days. 3. Discuss the lesson taught by the Parable of the Ten Virgins. 4. Relate the Parable of the Entrusted Talents. Show that various capacities exist in men for service to God and their fellow men. References in the Four Gospels Matt. 13:5, 6, 20, 21, 24-30; 24:3-51; 25:1-46; 26:2. | Mark 13:3-37. Luke 12:48; 19:12-27; 21:5-36. I Visiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 8—'Be of Good Cheer" (Matt. 14:27) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, May 2, 1950
Objective: To reaffirm that in bringing help and comfort to others, we gain joy for ourselves. S we reach the last message for this year, we earnestly hope that the visiting teachers have gained for themselves, and have been able to help others to gain, a nearness to our Savior which exceeds any that they may have felt before. We wish to conclude with a salutation which Christ frequently used to give encouragement to those with whom he mingled. "Be of good cheer" he told the man who was afflicted with palsy (Matt. 9:2). "Be of good cheer" (Mark 6:50), LESSON DEPARTMENT he called out to his fearful disciples as he walked towards them upon the waves of the sea when their ship was being tossed about by the wind and the waves. At the time that Paul was preaching in Jerusalem and was being so sorely persecuted in "the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul" (Acts 23:11).
These same words were spoken by him to his disciples to comfort them when their hearts were sore in the knowledge that they were soon to be separated from their beloved Master, for he had said to them, "But now I go my way to him that sent me. Because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart" (John 16:5,6). He knew that it was natural for his disciples to feel disconsolate, but he also knew that sorrow and discouragement can be replaced with happiness, and so he told them: But your sorrow shall be turned into joy. A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world (John 16:20-21).
Here is a lesson for all of us to take to heart, namely, that it is possible for us to look habitually for the beautiful experiences in life and learn to blot out the unpleasant ones. As one author expressed it, 127 "Never forget that every minute spent with gloom is just that much time spent away from light and life." The philosophy of Christ may be called joyful wisdom. It leads one into the path of happiness that is real and permanent. And yet, because the Savior experienced mortality, and with it the sorrows that the human race must know, there are those who would depict him as being solely "a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief." How one-sided such an evaluation would be. How could. He lead us into the path of happiness and not be happy himself—to think that he knew our sorrows but did not know our joys! How could Christ go about doing good and not feel joy? A certain woman once said that if she ever felt downhearted she would go out and find someone who needed help or consolation, with the result that she returned with her own spirits lifted. When Relief Society sisters go with understanding hearts into a home where there is illness or grief and render compassionate service, it cannot but make them, as well as the recipients of their favor, feel happier. One should quite determinedly cultivate a happy, relaxed state of mind in spite of unfavorable circumstances. In short, one should habitually "be of good cheer." > WORK MEETING No sewing lesson is scheduled for the month of May as the preview provided for a display of children's clothing in May. shade le Unable to determine - the continuation of this article does not appear in the provided PDF page images.