[Relief Society Building News]

Relief Society Magazine as having com-_ pleted their Building Fund quotas. ® BRITISH MISSION Accrington Branch, Liverpool District Airdrie Branch, Scottish District Barnsley Branch, Sheffield District Belfast Branch, Irish District Birmingham Branch, Birmingham District Blackburn Branch, Liverpool District Bradford Branch, Leeds District Bristol Branch, Bristol District Burnley Branch, Liverpool District Bury Branch, Manchester District Castleford Branch, Leeds District Cheltenham Branch, Bristol District Darlington Branch, Newcastle District Denton Branch, Manchester District Derby Branch, Nottingham District Dewsbury Branch, Leeds District Doncaster Branch, Sheffield District Dublin Branch, Irish District Dundee Branch, Scottish District Edinburgh Branch, Scottish District Glasgow Branch, Scottish District Gnmsby Branch, Hull District Halifax Branch, Leeds District Hull Branch, Hull District Hyde Branch, Manchester District Kidderminster Branch, Birmingham District Leeds Branch, Leeds District Leicester Branch, Nottingham District Liverpool Branch, Liverpool District Lowestoft Branch, Norwich District Middlesborough Branch, Newcastle District Nelson Branch, Liverpool District Newcastle Branch, Newcastle District Northampton Branch, Birmingham District North London Branch, London District Norwich Branch, Norwich District Nottingham Branch, Nottingham District Nuneaton Branch, Birmingham District Oldham Branch, Manchester District Preston Branch, Liverpool District Rochdale Branch, Manchester District St. Albans Branch, London District Sheffield Branch, Sheffield District South London Branch, London District South Shields Branch, Newcastle _ District Stockport Branch, Manchester District Stroud Branch, Bristol District Sunderland Branch, Newcastle District Varteg Branch, Welsh District West Hartlepool Branch, Newcastle District Wigan Branch, Liverpool District Airdrie Branch, Scottish District
Barnsley Branch, Sheflfield District
Belfast Branch, Irish District
Birmingham Branch, Birmingham
District
Blackburn Branch, Liverpool District
Bradford Branch, Leeds District
Bristol Branch, Bristol District
Burnley Branch, Liverpool District
Bury Branch, Manchester District
Castleford Branch, Leeds District
Cheltenham Branch, Bristol District
Darlington Branch, Newcastle District
Denton Branch, Manchester District
Derby Branch, Nottingham District
Dewsbury Branch, Leeds District
Doncaster Branch, Sheffield District
Dublin Branch, Irish District
Dundee Branch, Scottish District
Edinburgh Branch, Scottish District
Glasgow Branch, Scottish District
Grimsby Branch, Hull District
Halifax Branch, Leeds District
Hull Branch, Hull District
Hyde Branch, Manchester District
Kidderminster Branch, Birmingham
District
Leeds Branch, Leeds District
Leicester Branch, Nottingham District
Liverpool Branch, Liverpool District
Lowestoft Branch, Norwich District
Middlesborough Branch, Newcastle
District
Nelson Branch, Liverpool District
Newcastle Branch, Newcastle District
Northampton Branch, Birmingham
District
North London Branch, London
District
Norwich Branch, Norwich District
Nottingham Branch, Nottingham
District
Nuneaton Branch, Birmingham
District
Oldham Branch, Manchester District
Preston Branch, Liverpool District
Rochdale Branch, Manchester District
St. Albans Branch, London District
Sheffield Branch, Sheffield District
South London Branch, London District
South Shields Branch, Newcastle
District
Stockport Branch, Manchester District
Stroud Branch, Bristol District
Sunderland Branch, Newcastle District
Varteg Branch, Welsh District
West Hartlepool Branch, Newcastle
District
Wigan Branch, Liverpool District
Page 89

Oriental China, Ancient and Modern
PART I-CHINESE
Rachel K. Lamgaaid
Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson
Like bright moons, cunningly carved and dyed with spring water;
Like curling disks of thinnest ice, filled with green clouds;
Like ancient moss-eaten bronze mirrors, lying upon the mat;
Like tender lotus leaves, full of dewdrops, floating on the river!
THUS an ancient Chinese poet was not colored green by the use described the porcelain cups of copper. made for presentation to the In those ancient times, it was Emperor. The Emperor held high customary to bury the dead surstandards of artistic perfection. The rounded by pottery images of everyporcelains made for his use must thing which they had treasured in "surpass hoar frost and snow," have life. Some of these graves have surfaces so hard that they could been opened and, to the delight of not be scratched by a knife, be pure historians and artists alike, they reand translucent and, when struck veal a complete story of the daily on the edge, they must ring with a life of 2,000 years ago. The home low jade note. Such, through the of the deceased, his barnyard with centuries, have remained the ster- its domestic animals, his garden, his ling qualities of porcelain. musical instruments, tools, and From time immemorial beautiful weapons, the members of his housepottery kilns all over China. They ioned in clay, have been classified according to the The character modeled on the reigning dynasty when they were faces of these little creatures, the produced, but some of them were dignity and charm of the women, made as early as 3,000 B.C. in the the playful humor of the children pre-dynastic times. During the at their games and dances, the spirit-
Han dynasty (206 B.C. -A.D. 220) ed horses, dogs, camels, cats, and the ceramic arts advanced in many even imaginary animals, all remain ways, including form, color, and de- as evidence that the ancient Chinese sign. Glaze was then used, appar- potters were superb artists, ently for the first time, with the Such priceless pieces have found underlying body of the glaze usually their way into museums. They are red, but in the finished product, seldom for sale, and then, not at with the use of a transparent glaze, prices to suit the average purse, becoming brown or reddish brown Sometime between the Han in wares where the original glaze dynasty and the great and powerful
Page 90

ORIENTAL CHINA, ANCIENT AND MODERN
91
POTTERY HORSE OF THE T'ANG
DYNASTY (A.D. 618-906)
The horse is decorated with rare blue glaze and touches of red paint on the saddle. It represents the Bactrian horse, a type introduced into China by the Mongols.
Tang regime (618-906), when
China emerged as the most civiHzed of the nations, the beginning of porcelain making may be traced through the kaohnic gray stoneware which had a glaze of feldspar and wood ashes. Here also may be found the origins of the famous celadon green glazes (sea-green) which owed their color to iron impurities in the ceramic clays.
The exquisite potteries of the Sung dynasty (960-1279) are still regarded as the classic wares of China. This was a richly creative a ge in all the arts and many porcelain factories, under the sponsorship of powerful rulers, produced "Imperial" ware of great beauty and durability.
This age saw further experimentation with the lovely seagreen colors (the ch'ing luster).
Also in some of the glazes, a "bubble" surface was produced and in others a "crackle" effect was obtained by immersing the hot articles in water or by some other method, including variations in the formula for mixing the clays. A very beautiful porcelain was made at Ting Chou in southern Chihli.
This ware was flour-white Ting porcelain, slightly translucent, sometimes blending into ivory or cream tinted. It was exquisitely decorated with incised or carved designs, usually in floral patterns. The peculiar blackish stoneware of Chien was made in large quantities during the Sung period.
Many of these articles were made with a lustrous purple glaze, sometimes flecked with streaks or spots of brown. HE Chinese themselves have > always loved best the wares of the Sung Dynasty and, with their great reverence for the past and the handiwork of their ancestors, they have continued to reproduce them with a skill that will deceive the experts. The Sung Dynasty was overthrown by Kubla Khan and his Tartars who held the reins of government until the next great native dynasty—the Ming—was established in 1368. Hung-Wu, the founder of the Ming Dynasty, made the pottery works at Ching-te-chen the ofPORCELAIN STEM-CUP OF THE SUNG DYNASTY (960-1279) One of the three crimson fishes painted on the outside is shown. 

92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1950 DECORATED JAR OF THE SUNG DYNASTY ficial factory, and thither came the best porcelain workers in the land.
With their combined knowledge and skill, they soon became the first potters in the world to perfect a fine white porcelain with a transparent white glaze. The paste from which this fine porcelain was fashioned was composed of white clay or kaolin, and feldspathic stone or petuntse, as the Chinese call it.
Fired at a high temperature, the feldspathic stone fused, welding the piece together and giving it translucency. 'The glaze was composed of a solution of powdered feldspathic stone mixed with lime and plant ash. It is thought that the brilliance and clarity of the finest porcelain were obtained because of the exact quality of this ash.
Porcelains of later periods appear dead white or glassy compared with Ming wares.
Only two colors were found which could withstand the extremely hot fire necessary to produce porcelain—the blue obtained from cobalt ores, and the blood-red obtained from copper.
Decorations painted on the "biscuit," or unfired piece, and then fired together with the porcelain, are called "underglaze" decorations. It was this beautiful ware which became the wonder of the Western World when the Portuguese traders of the 1500's carried it to Europe.
Soon the Dutch, English, and French * were competing with the Portuguese, and an enormous trade was built up by the famous East India Company. The Ming Dynasty ruled China for almost 300 years, and during this long period hundreds of varieties of artistic ceramic wares were produced. In addition to the blue and white, and red and white underglaze porcelains, marvelously thin "eggshell" porcelain made its appearance, pieces too delicate for export, with dragons, clouds, or waves and inscriptions, etched in the biscuit before firing, barely visible until the vessel was filled with liquid and held up to the light. The well-known "grain of rice" porcelain was an invention of the Ming period. To achieve this effect, perforations the shape of a grain of rice were made in the body of the china, and filled with melted glaze.
When fired, they became like so many windows through which light passed.
Crackle was perfected, and the art of overglaze coloring. It was in the late sixteenth century that potters first adopted the device of taking a finished piece of blue and white porcelain and decorating it further with thin washes made of oxides of various metals ground up in glass, and refiring the piece at a lower heat, thus enlarging the color scheme to include green, purple, ORIENTAL CHINA, ANCIENT AND MODERN §3 yellow, an overglaze red, and lustrous black. HE Ming Dynasty met its downfall at last, and during the political troubles of the seventeenth century the works at Ching-te-chen were destroyed more than once, but pottery-making went on. The traditional blue and white was continued with the greatest skill. The old ways of glazing were carried on to perfection, until, during the Ch'ing Dynasty of the Manchus which ruled China from 1662 to 1910, and, more particularly, during the period from 1662 to 1800, such quantities of desirable pieces were made and catried to Europe and America by the East India company, that about three-fourths of the fine Chinese wares in museums and private collections can be ascribed to this period. K'ang Hsi, the first of the Ch'ing monarchs, was contemporary with Louis XIV of France.
Relations between the two rulers were particularly cordial, and we know many of the lovely glazes of this era by their French names because of the respect in which they were held at the court of the "Grand Monarque." Sang-de-boeuf (ox-blood), peach bloom, turquoise blue, clairde-lune, celadon (sea-green), are the so-called monochromes—small vases and bottles made in both underglaze and overglaze colors. In the class called polychromes, fall the several so-called "families," also named by the French—"famille verte" (green), "famille rose," "famille noir" (black), and "famille jaune" (yellow).
They were made by a combination of underglaze painting, and on-glaze decoration. As the names suggest, definite color schemes distinguished each "family." 'The colors applied by the underglaze method seem to belong to the body of the ware, while the on-glaze colors stand out in slight relief. The polychromes presented a fertile field for the painter.
Scenes from history and romance were favorite subjects, as well as birds and flowers and symbolic designs of every sort and description. The East India Company even took orders from their clients for china decorated with copies of engravings, coats-of-arms, elaborate floral borders, heavily gilded, in keeping with the ornate homes of the West—a far cry from the chaste simplicity of wares made for Chinese use. LUE and white underglaze porcelain reached the peak of perfection during the reign of K'ang K'ANG HSI VASE, BLUE AND WHITE, WITH PRUNUS DESIGN (CH'ING DYNASTY 1644-1912) The background of this exquisite vase is pure sapphire, with the design in white. The netted lines represent cracked ice. The prunus blossom falling on the breaking ice is a symbol of returning spring, and a favorite motif for wares of this period. 
94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1950
Hsi. 'The materials were refined over and over until they were extremely pure. The decoration was carefully painted in a clear sapphire blue, free from any strain of red, obtained only by the most elaborate process of refining. The crowning glory of this ware was the "hawthorne" design, really the prunus— a tree which shows blossoms before leaves, symbolic of the passing of winter, and the coming of spring.
Used at first to decorate small ginger jars sent by the Chinese as New Year's gifts, it became so popular with Westerners that sets of five prunus jars were made to grace mantles, and later to be used as lamp bases. The export porcelain came to be known as Canton china, and, though much of it was not of the highest quality, very little of it was really bad. It was manufactured at Ching-te-chen, and sent to Canton to be decorated to suit European tastes. The quaint Lowestoft myth which ascribed some of this ware to the little pottery in Lowestoft, England, became so widespread, that even today, museum collections of Canton or "East India China," decorated in the Western manner are labeled "Lowestoft" or "Sino-Lowestoft."
Ever since the days of the East India Company, and the clipper ships, quantities of Canton china have entered into the commerce of the world.
Seafaring husbands of New England brought it home to their wives, and every china shop in America stocks it.
Though today China is again torn by strife, the factories are still producing and shipping this popular ware. The beloved wares of Sung and Ming times are still being reproduced, some of excellent quality, although, in general, Chinese porcelain is not as it used to be.