[Preservation of Our Blessings of Freedom]

Preservation of Our Blessings of Freedom Elder Ezra Taft Benson Of the Council of the Twelve (Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1949) Y beloved sisters of the ReM lief Society: I am grateful for this opportunity. My first recollection of the Relief Society in action was as a young boy of a large and growing family when I had the weekly responsibility of hitching a horse to a buggy when I was so small I had to climb on the horse's back to fasten the collar. And, after that job was completed, to lift one half bushel of wheat into the back of that one-horse buggy as mother left, as an officer of a ward Relief Society, to attend her weekly meeting.
From that day to this I have loved and admired the Relief Society and its program. I commend you, my sisters, that you have been considered worthy to become a part of it, that you have been charged with the responsibility of leadership. As we consider this afternoon for a few moments this very important matter, introduced so effectively by Sister Elhott,* we are dealing with eternal principles.
What are the blessings of freedom and _ liberty?
What are the fundamental principles upon which liberty and freedom are based? As far as our people are concerned: "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege." We also "believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression" (2d and 11th Articles of Faith).
Freedom of choice—free agency— is an eternal principle. It is part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Moses, to whom the Lord revealed the knowledge regarding the creation of the earth, recorded the fact that Satan was cast down out of heaven at the time of the great council because he "sought to destroy the agency of man, which I, the Lord, had given him" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 4:3).
Then free agency is a God-given right, an inalienable nght, which the Lord intended to be enjoyed by all his children.
Abraham was shown the spirit children of our Heavenly Father before they came to earth. He, too, was shown the creation of the earth, and the Lord said to him: "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command *See "With Liberty and Justice for All," by Edith S. Elliott, The Relief Society Magazine, December 1949, page 804.  

76  them" (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:25). In that divine statement is embodied also the right of choice. Joshua, the great leader of Israel, said to his people: "Choose you this day whom ye will serve... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (Joshua 24:15). And so the leaders in Israel, from the beginning down to the present, have emphasized this matter of freedom of choice. How often did we hear our beloved leader, President Heber J. Grant, repeat these few lines: Know this that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven. Yes, freedom is an eternal principle.
Heaven disapproves of force, coercion, or intimidation.
Only free people can be happy, and the gospel is that great plan of freedom. HEN the saints were living the darkest days of the history of the Church, when they had been driven by their enemies from one section of the country to the other, the Lord gave the Prophet Joseph Smith a glorious revelation, which has been referred to here this afternoon. You will recall that they had gone to Jackson County, Missouri, hoping that would be their permanent home, then they were driven into Van Buren County, and from there into Clay County.
They suffered heavy losses—losses of clothing, furniture, household supplies, and livestock.
Many of their crops had been destroyed, but during this dark period in their history, the Lord spoke of the petition of his righteous people and urged them to "continue to importune for tedress." He spoke of the fact that it is not right for his children to be in bondage, one to another. It is the 101st section of the Doctrine and Covenants from which I read two verses. He said that the saints should seek for redress: According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; that every man may act in doctrine and pminciple pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment (D. & C. 101:77-78).
Confirming again this principle of free agency, he then vouchsafes to us another great principle, one that I hope you will keep in mind as Americans and as citizens of the Kingdom: "Therefore," said the Lord, "it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another" (D. & C. 101:79).
That statement of an _ eternal principle will serve to condemn the dictators and the rulers of the world. Who have taken from the people their free agency, their right of choice.
There have been three main classifications of bondage in the history of the world. First, there has been the bondage of one nation to another. That, of course, has varied in degree. We fought the great Revolutionary War to brake the bondage imposed by one nation upon the Thirteen Colonies. Then
PRESERVATION OF OUR BLESSINGS OF FREEDOM 77 there is the bondage of people to people, the bondage of one segment of the population to another segment within the same nation. We fought the Civil War to break that kind of bondage. Then, probably more serious than either of the other two, and probably more widespread, there is the bondage of people to the State. The Lord said in this same revelation: For this purpose, (that men might have their free agency and that they might not be in bondage) have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (D. & C. 101:80).
What a satisfaction that statement of the Lord should be to us as Latter-day Saints to know that the Constitution under which we live was established under the inspiration of heaven, by wise men whom the Lord raised up unto that very purpose. WHEN the Kirtland Temple was to be dedicated, the Lord emphasized again to the Prophet Joseph the importance of defending these principles of freedom and liberty.
That dedicatory prayer was given to the Prophet by revelation and then spoken back to the Lord in his words. One verse of it reads: Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth; have mercy upon the tulers of our land, may those principles which were so honorably and nobly defended, namely, the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever (D. & C. 109:54). Again, the principles of the eternities embody these important principles of freedom and liberty. It is not any wonder, my brethren and sisters, with this knowledge revealed from heaven, that the Prophet Joseph said of the Constitution of the United States, that it "is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty "—And liberty is sweet.
Many of us have never seen people who have lost it, but I say to you, my brethren and sisters, that among the saddest things in all the world is to see people who have once enjoyed their liberty and then lost it. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning tays of the sun (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 147). As I saw people in war-torn Europe and heard them express their longings to get to America, I thought of the words of the Prophet Joseph: "It is like a spring in a thirsty land, like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun." We saw them struggling on every hand to get to America.
Many of them, if they were fortunate enough to get hold of an American magazine, would sit by the hour and pore through the pages, wondering if what they saw could possibly be true.
Some of them endeavored to get to America by illegal means in 78°  order to enjoy again the blessings of freedom and liberty. Now, our Constitution gave to us some elemental principles never incorporated, so far as we know, in any other government that has ever been established within recorded history. President Clark, some years ago, made special mention of these elemental principles. May I quote a line from his statement which appeared in the 1940
Improvemen Era., It (the Constitution) gave us, for perhaps the first time in all history, a republic with the three basic divisions of government, legislative, executive and judicial, literally and completely independent the one from the other, under which it is not possible for any branch of the government legally to set up a system by which that branch can first conceive what it wants to do, then make the law ordering its doing, and then itself charge its own enforcement.
That is basic to our American government, and yet we have come very close during certain periods in our history to doing the very thing that President Clark pointed out, which is always the method of dictators; i. E., make their own laws, interpret their own laws, and then bring judgment on their own acts.
During the depression of the thirties, and again during the last war emergency, through the adoption of administrative rulings giving great powers to the executive branch during a certain period, we came close to the danger involved in this very thing.
During certain emergency periods there is justification for emergency action, but we must be careful as American citizens to see that those emergency powers are taken away again after the emergency disappears, in order that safeguards may be retained through the proper balance, for the Lord intended this as he inspired the founders of this great nation. HE Lord also counseled the Saints in the early days of the Church that they should accept their hardships in patience and that they should also befriend the law of the land, that they should choose honest men to administer the laws, for he said in the 98th section of the Doctrine and Covenants concerning the laws of our land: That law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind and is justifiable before me. Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land (D. & C. 98:5-6). And again, in defining this eternal principle of freedom, the Lord said: "I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free" (D. & C. 98:8). And then he announced another great principle and_ responsibility which I hope that women of the Relief Society will keep in mind as they consider the 134th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants as a course of study this coming year.
This is what the Lord said: Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. And then these significant words: Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good
PRESERVATION OF OUR BLESSINGS OF FREEDOM 79 men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil (D. & C. 98:9, 10). Now, as I interpret the scriptures, my brethren and sisters, these admonitions are just as binding upon the Latter-day Saints as is the law of tithing, the Word of Wisdom, or baptism. We should seek out honest men and wise men to hold political office in this government under an inspired Constitution. Can we logically place any other interpretation?
This is the will of the Lord as spoken by revelation through our Prophet Joseph Smith. We have seen ample evidence of what happens when the wicked do tule.
Some of us have been in wartorn Germany. We have seen the results of the Hitler program, free agency thrown to the winds, the State supreme, whereas the Lord says that the individual is supreme, that he shall have his free agency, his freedom of choice. Not only did they place the State supreme and take away man's free agency, but they went further and took away the God-given authority of parents to direct the lives of their own children, for God had thundered to Moses on Mount Sinai that children should honor their parents.
Under the Nazi program children were taught that false doctrine that it is an indication of weakness to listen to the counsel of their own parents, that they should look to the State for counsel.
Then there was the principle of moral purity, an eternal principle.
There is no happiness or eternal exaltation without observance of this principle. Yet German youth were taught that there is nothing wrong in relations of the sexes outside the marriage covenant so long as childbirth results, and that the State would take care of the illegitimate child and the mother. It will take decades to undo, even in a measure, the damage that has been done by a powerful, despotic national leader who went contrary to eternal principles and ignored the Christian principles that are a part of the government of heaven—a part of the gospel of Jesus Chnist. ANY people have asked what — caused a great people who have gone so far in the fields of science, music, and the other arts to permit such men to rise to great power as has happened in Germany, in Italy, and in Russia and her satellites. One of the important reasons as I have observed it firsthand, my brethren and sisters, is the fact that the citizens generally failed to carry out the admonition which the Lord has given the Latter-day Saints, to seek out good men and wise to serve as their leaders in a political capacity. Men, without faith in eternal principles, were permitted to rise to power. We must not think it cannot happen here. We must be eternally vigilant as Latter-day Saints and seek out good men and wise, diligently, and inspire in the lives of our children a love for these eternal principles embodied in the Constitution, and a desire to seek out honorable men, the best possible, to stand at the head of our political governments, local, state, and federal.
Only in this way can we safeguard the liberties which have been 

80  vouchsafed to us in this inspired Constitution, the principles of which are a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so I say, my sisters, that there are three important questions every Latter-day Saint should ask when a matter is proposed having to do with our national or local welfare.
First of all, is it right as measured by the Constitution of the land, which we know was inspired? Second, is it right—although possibly not mentioned in the Constitution specifically—is it right as measured by the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ? And third, what will be its effect on the morale and character of the people if this or that policy is adopted? We are obligated as Latter-day Saints to apply these tests. In Mormon philosophy, the individual is supreme under the God of heaven. He has certain inalienable rights which no person or nation has the right to take from him.
These rights are spelled out in the Constitution and Declaration of Independence, and are set forth in the revelations of the Lord to his children. The principles of the gospel, upon which our American way of life is based, are incompatible with both Communism or Fascism or any other man-made philosophies and programs, which throw to the wind these eternal principles. We see some of our own Latterday Saints tampering with these foreign "isms." No other system under heaven has ever provided so much of the good things of life as has our American system, our American way of life. I hold in my hand some comparative figures published in a national magazine and later re-published in the Reader's Digest, giving the comparative purchasing power of wages in Russia and in the United States by the average industrial worker.
These alone tell the story of the fruits of the two systems. I will not take time to read them all. I will give you just one or two examples. In order to buy a one-pound wheat loaf of bread in Russia, the average worker must work one hour and ten minutes; in the United States, seven and a half minutes; one pound of lump sugar, two hours and thirty-four minutes in Russia; five minutes and a half in the United States; a pound of butter, ten hours and forty-two minutes in Russia; forty-eight and a half minutes in the United States; a cotton dress, thirty-one hours and fifty-one minutes in Russia; two hours and twenty-two minutes in the United States; women's cotton stockings— if they wear them any more in America—two hours and fifty-four minutes in Russia; nineteen and a half minutes in the United States. [N this beloved land, choice above all others, under a Constitutioninspired Government, we ate said to have approximately six per cent of the land area and about seven per cent of the population of the world, but we have approximately fifty per cent of the world's total wealth.
More comfort, more satisfaction, more freedom, more of the blessings of liberty, have come to us here than have ever been enjoyed by any other people. As Latter-day
PRESERVATION OF OUR BLESSINGS OF FREEDOM 81
Saints, we know the source of these blessings, and we should be the first to defend and protect the principles so basic to the enjoyment of such blessings. I have in my hand a letter which came a few days ago from one of the fine women of the Relief Society in Europe. I was in the home of this woman and her good husband and their little family. I cannot mention the name because of the danger that the information might get back and under the present regime over there, further persecution might be heaped upon them.
Said this good lady—and she speaks beautiful English: "We had a nice meeting in the large hall in,' on such and such a date. "We wanted to show also the picture, "The King of Kings,' but were not allowed to.
There is no longer freedom of the press, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly as we meet here to say anything we wish."
Then she tells of "the nice talks" given by the missionaries and by the president of the mission. She says: My husband conducted the meeting, the last time for a long time, because just a week later he was sent to prison. Our shop has been nationalized. He shall be in prison for two years. He was called to the police on Monday, the second of and did not come back any more. Last Sunday he left the city and went to a camp, a work camp. Now I have to wait until his letter comes to know where he is and how he feels. I do not know how I could bear all this without the blessings, the teachings and hopes of the gospel.
Knowing the truth of the Lord makes all easier to bear. We remember your counsel not to let us be overcome or discouraged by despair. You cannot imagine how your words have helped us in recent times. I read through the Beatitudes and it gives me much comfort in my troubles. We are all looking forward to the coming of our beloved Lord Jesus Christ.
That would be the best solution of all the troubles of the world. I cannot write to you all I wanted to.
Please remember us, especially my husband, in your prayers. He has to suffer without reason. He is really a good husband, father and citizen, and he has not done anything wrong, either before man or before the law. Well, this good man is working on a rock pile today as slave labor. He was given no freedom to even present his case, no hearing whatever, because freedom has left the country.
People who love freedom, as we love it, have lost the blessed privilege of freedom of choice, freedom to live where they wish, freedom to select their own job, freedom to speak their minds—to worship as they desire. I would rather be dead, my brethren and sisters, than to lose the blessings of liberty and freedom. I presume in America we will never lose those freedoms and those blessings of liberty by force from an outside power, but we may very easily lose them because of our indifference, because of our failure to exercise our franchise, because we permit men who are unworthy to rise to positions of political power. Therefore, we should seek, as the Lord-says, good men and wise, seek them diligently and see that they are elected to office and uphold these eternal principles. Yes, we should keep ever in mind the fact that we cannot take these blessings of freedom and liberty for granted. 

82  It requires effort on our part, constant effort, if we would safeguard the Constitution and those eternal principles embodied therein. Thank God for the knowledge which we have, as Latter-day Saints, that the Lord has had a hand in the establishment of this government. May he give you the power, as leaders in Relief Society and as mothers in Israel, to impress upon our sisters and upon our own children the importance of becoming acquainted with these eternal principles, and doing all in their power to promote and defend them, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Lines So Lincoln Josephine ]. Harvey There are men who live so tall, They seem to tower above Other men of their time. You were such a man. You loved knowledge, Yet never grew too wise To lift the friendly hand Or walk in humble ways. And when you spoke to men They always understood. You walked the somber hills of night, And left us with a brighter dawn.
Your life remains a monument, Wherever men love truth and light. Second Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest The House That Jim Built Norma Wrathall A cozy little white cottage, with | blue shutters, and with a chandelier of Chinese chimes that tinkled when the _ porch light went on, would be the last place you'd think of as a haunted house. But that's what it was, after Jim Hawley's pretty young widow and that new husband of hers, Brick Saunders, came to live in the house that Jim built. Jim had built the house several years before he'd even started going out with June. He was a landscape gardener, and his yard was beautifully arranged. By hobby, he was a sort of inventor, and he had devised more gadgets than you could shake a stick at to make the work easier around the house. Sometimes, when I went there to help June, I thought it harder to learn how to use some of the inventions than to do the work in the ordinary way. But June was mighty proud of her things, and took pride in showing people how thoughtful Jim had been.
Right now, it should be explained that I—Mrs. Merkely, christened Mathilda, but generally known as Mattie— can't help knowing quite a lot about people in Oaks Junction, because I do most of the housecleaning for the better families, and also ironing. Oaks Junction is a suburb of Junction City where the big mills and smelters are. Not that I go around telling things,. Of NORMA WRATHALL course; sometimes I wish I didn't have to worry so much about other people's troubles. I saw June the day they returned from their honeymoon in California, and she looked radiantly happy. She'd always been a pretty girl, with a knack for wearing clothes, and it struck me that day that her tall, red-head husband had good cause to be proud of her. He had a grin that spread all over his face whenever he looked at June. Later, I learned that his temper matched his hair. It was a few weeks later that she called me on the phone and said she would like me to do her ironing. She said she had been up most Page 83 

84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1950 of the previous night, washing in her automatic washer.
Something had gone wrong with it, and she hadn't wanted to disturb Brick. | thought her voice sounded sort of muffled, as if she'd been crying. "Please hurry, Mattie. I'm at the end of my rope—" Even though June's mother and I have been life-long friends and neighbors, I had to finish putting Mrs. Ames' curtains on the dryer before I could leave. 'Then I went on over to June's house, which is quite a walk from where I live.
June had never been very neat, because her mother had always picked up after her and waited on her at home. But this day, I could hardly get into the kitchen, what with the screen door hitting me in the back with that rapid-door-closer of Jim's, stumbling over a basket of wet clothes, and nearly falling into a pan of cold starch in the middle of the floor. "IT haven't nearly all of it hung out—there wasn't room," sighed June. "Jim practically always did the washing, Mattie, you know he did, because he was so proud of the little bell he invented that would ring whenever a batch was done, and the light that flashed a different color for the varying temperatures of water.
Something went wrong with it last night, and the spinner started reversing. I couldn't call Brick because—well, he wanted me to send it out in the first place—" She let her sentence trail off into dejected silence. "My goodness, June," I said, "Seems to me you've got a lot of clothes, even for a two-weeks' wash. I saw your lines all full as I came in." I thought to myself that it was a poor way to end a honeymoon, as you might say. "Yes—but Brick wears at least one clean shirt every day. And there were a lot of tablecloths and towels and things I didn't wash when we first got home. I don't know where half of it comes from, myself." She pushed back a strand of soft brown hair from her damp forehead; there were circles of weariness under her large blue eyes. "Listen, Mattie, I hung out all the ironing first, and I guess I've let it get too dry.
Maybe you could bring that in and sprinkle it down to suit yourself, and hang out some more things." She limped into the dining room, and sat down at the uncleared breakfast table. I saw her staring moodily at the toaster. GHE certainly did have a lot of ironing. It was late afternoon before I was through with it. She gave me a radiant smile as I was ready to leave, her gloomy mood of the forenoon apparently vanished. "Look, Mattie, at this wonderful roast—" She opened the oven a crack. "M-m-m-m—" I sniffed, "and dressing, too! You always were a good cook, June. 'They say that's the way to make a husband happy." "Oh, Brick will be happy; I'm determined that he shall. But sometimes I don't think he fully a preciates this lovely house Jim built. He tried to get me to rent it, and move into another house. Imagine, with this place already mine, and paid for. Why, only this morning, Brick grumbled that he couldn't turn around in this house without THE HOUSE THAT JIM BUILT — some gadget hitting him in the eye.
Just because he forgot, and stepped on the automatic shower button in the bathroom floor, and got his clothes wet. I try to tell him, it wasn't only Jim's inventions, it was his kindness and thoughtfulness as well." She was stirring up some quick rolls, and paused a moment to stare out the window, her eyes misty with her thoughts. "Sometimes, it's better to let the dead have their peace," I muttered, but she started running the mixer, and didn't hear me. The next day, Mr.
Saunders called me on the phone. He said he wanted me to do the laundry regularly, every week, in case June forgot to call me. "I don't intend to do the washing myself," he said, "I'm not handy man around the house, I can tell you that—so you come, will you?"
Things went on like that for several weeks.
About the time Id come to do the laundry, he'd be leaving for work. He was foreman at the mill in Junction City, and they say, a whiz for getting things done., One day I was there when he had a half day free from his work. He was out in the back yard when I arrived, digging up a piece. Of ground, whistling away as the dirt flew from his shovel. After I started ironing, I could see him plainly from the open window.
June was down in the basement, putting away some blankets, and as she came up onto the landing, she gave a little scream. "Brick!—don't dig that, darling! It's where Jim planted all those imported Holland tulip bulbs. He used 85 to win prizes at flower shows and things." She hurried out into the yard. I was waiting for the iron to cool to iron some rayons, so, naturally, I watched them. He didn't turn around for a moment, just leaned on his shovel, sort of pressing it deeper into the ground. "Well, honey, we live here now," he said slowly, "and I'm not much of a one for flower shows. I'm going to dig this up, and put fertilizer on it, ready for a vegetable garden next spring. I've always wanted to try my luck at vegetables." So saying, he began digging again, and worst of all, whistling. | ee just stood there watching for a moment, her face getting red and then white, by turns.
Then she came running into the kitchen. "About through, Mattie?" she asked, in a brittle voice. She sat down at the work table and all at once, began to cry. "Oh, the sacrilege of it!
Radishes and spinach all over the place where those lovely, lovely flowers were!" I walked over and quietly closed the window, being careful not to get my head in the way of the automatic air-cooler, which sometimes came loose and fell out. That's how it was I was standing at the window and saw Brick suddenly slam down his shovel with all his might. He stomped over to the garage and started to open it. But he must have stepped on the button that would open the overhead door without lifting a finger, because the door flew up and hit him in the face. It was his own fault, in a way, because he was standing too close. 
86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1950
But I never heard such swearing.
Pretty soon, he backed the car out of the garage, and shot down the driveway, and out into the street.
June had gone into the bedroom and shut the door. I sighed; such a lovely, lovely little house.
What had come over it to make two people so unhappy? The next time I came, I asked Brick quietly to disconnect the automatic bell-timer and flashing light on the washer. It made me nervous and, besides, I was afraid it would get out of order again. He grinned at me, and winked. "Don't know as I blame you," he said, "I had to remove the garage doors to keep from getting my head knocked off, and it keeps me broke having my clothes pressed from drenching under that shower, to say nothing of being hit in the small of my back every time I go through the kitchen screen door!" But in spite of his joking, I noticed a growing coolness between them and soon he wasn't even kissing her goodbye. June's mother and I talked it over one afternoon while we had some hot chocolate and cookies. June's mother was a quiet, gentle little woman, reminding me of a dove. She didn't want to interfere; but we agreed that something would have to be done.
Next morning, we waited until we were sure he'd be gone to work, and then walked down to June's place. | She was still sitting at the uncleared breakfast table, just staring into space. I saw traces of tears on her cheeks., "Don't you feel well, asked her mother.
June didn't answer at first, just pressed the wet ball of her handkerchief to her nose.
When she spoke, her voice was muffled. "Oh, I'm all right—I guess—but you might as well know. Everything —simply everything — has gone wrong—" She covered her face with her hands. I sat down on the window seat, and June's mother drew up a chair close to June. "Oh, now, it can't be quite that bad.
Nothing is," she began gently. "Maybe Id better go," I suggested, not getting up.
June blew her nose. "No, Mattie. You've heard so much already. You might as well hear the rest of it." dear?" ig seemed that the day had started wrong, for one thing. The alarm hadn't rung, so they'd overslept. And, in her hurry, June had let his eggs fry too hard, and was called to the phone right in the midst of getting breakfast on.
When she came back, there was a regular column of smoke coming from the toaster.
Brick was just looking at it, a peculiar smile on his face. "You'd think he'd have at least taken the bread out, or something," she wailed.
Then he had started muttering, "Oh, he couldn't leave it the way the manufacturer made it. No; he had to improve—". And then he had yanked the toaster from 'its moorings and flung it across the room, bread and all. His face got fiery red, and June said it frightened her, the way he looked, his hair THE HOUSE THAT JIM BUILT standing up on his head, and his eyes sort of narrowed. "He said he was sick of living in Jim Hawley's house, and with Jim Hawley looking over his shoulder all the time, even when he shaved," sobbed June. "That's on account of that double-duty shaving mirror that folds up into a bathroom tray. He said he couldn't possibly be a model husband, and if I didn't want him the way he was, well, okay then—" A shuddering sigh went through her, and she wiped her eyes. "He said a lot of other things, too—that he'd always wanted a home of his own—he grew up in his aunt's home, you know—but now he lived in a haunted house, with another man — imagine!—" She stood up suddenly. "I guess he meant he never wanted to see me again, either, because he stormed out, and I don't know—" She ran into the bedroom and flung herself across the bed. Her mother followed her, and I went quietly home to finish Mrs. Bemis' ironing.
Things had come to a sad climax.
June moved in with her mother and listed her house for sale. It looked lonely and forlorn with the sign on it, as if no one cared. I heard from some of my ladies, that Mr.
Saunders was living at the workman's boarding house over at Junction City, and it was rumored that he was soon to leave permanently. June's mother got thin and pinched-looking, from worry.