[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Be of Good Cheer" Mary Grant Judd]

VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, October 28, 1949
Front row, left to nght: Edna T. Buss; Second Counselor Dessa B. Richins; Clarabell R. Harper; Hilda T. Halverson; Secretary-Treasurer Nina J. Langford; Stake Relief Society President Reka V. B. Parker; Nellie W. Neal, member general board of Relief Society. Second row, standing left of pulpit: Secretary-Treasurer Edith B. Williams; acting organist Vera Pettit; chorister Mabel E. Draper; First Counselor Erma V. Jacobs. An extensive display of handwork of all types was held in connection with the convention. A delicious luncheon was served to 225
Relief Society members. Photograph submitted by Ann M. Borg GRANT STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS CHORUS Front row, beginning fourth from the left: accompanists Grace Riches and Erma Barton; director Ann M. Borg. This chorus completed four major assignments during the past year, furnishing music for the Relief Society opening social, for morning and evening sessions of stake conference, for Relief Society convention, and for the March 6th stake program. Plans are underway for a song festival to be held in the amphitheater in Big Cottonwood Canyon sometime during the summer of 1949. Forty-seven members are enrolled in the chorus and baby tenders are provided for the practice periods which are held sometimes in the mornings and sometimes in the afternoons. One of the accompanists, Bernece Engeman was not present when the photograph was taken. Lorena L. Harline is president of Grant Stake Relief Society. 
120 
Photograph submitted by Winnie T. Graff OREM STAKE (UTAH) PAGEANT HONORS EARLY RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS March 17, 1949
Front row, left to right: Sherrie Ford representing Emma Smith; Oreen Walker as Eliza R. Snow; Enid Johnson as Zina D. Young; Uana Illingsworth as Bathsheba Smith; Emily Long as Emmeline B. Wells.
Back row, left to right: Winnie T. Graff, President, Orem Stake Relief Society; Blanche Nielson, author and reader of the pageant; Mary Rowley, representing President Belle S. Spafford; Dorothy Johnson as President Amy Brown Lyman; Lula Croft as President Louisa Y. Robison; Jennie Harris as President Clarissa Williams; Elaine Baxter, who played an accordion solo; Erma Swensen, who played an organ solo. | This beautiful pageant was presented in the Scera auditorium before a large audience.
Each character was introduced by the reader, Sister Wilson, and as the women entered Sister Swensen softly played ""O My Father" in memory of Eliza R. Snow, and Elaine Baxter played an accordian solo "My Mountain Home So Dear' in memory of Emmeline B. Wells. | _>-