FAITH IN PROPHECY.

	I have been one of the many that have looked
forward to the year 1891, for something of un-
usual importance to occur; for some scene to be
wound up, for that is what the prophecy states
that was uttered on the 14th of February 1835,
and I claim to have faith in God and in His 
servants and therefore I believed that if any 
prophecy ever came true that one surely would,
as it must have been uttered by the Spirit of God;
it could scarcely be otherwise at such a time
when the Twelve Apostles were being blessed
and set apart to prune the vineyard for the last
time, (even 56 years should wind up the scene)
and while nothing happened seemingly as I
thought it should yet it did not shake my faith for
the Lord says though the heavens and earth
should pass away not one jot or tittle of His word
should fail, so I was willing to believe that al-
though I could not see it this prophecy had
actually been fulfilled, and that if I would wait in
patience the day would come when I shonld know
it. I was thinking about these things one day
when lo! it struck me like a flash. What about
the scene of peace? surely is not peace taken
from the earth? Is not the whole world in com-
motion? Do we not hear of wars and rumors of
wars, are not the wicked slaying the wicked, are
there not earthquakes and famines and pestilence
in divers places, and dreadful accidents by sea
and by land? And have we not had judgments in
the house of the Lord, are not some of us even
now being sorely tried, and have we not as a peo-
ple passed through some very dark days in the
last ten years.
	And while some assert that our own land is in
a state of peace yet in the year '91, we were fight-
ing with the Indians, I was satisfied with this
explanation. What a picture the world would
present could it pass before our eyes like a pano-
rama with its scenes of distress, its strifes, and 
its turmoils I think we should exclaim as the
Prophet Joseph said we should, "O Lord shut out
the vision!" and yet the Savior says that these
things should be but the beginning of sorrows.
Thene where Oh, where will it all end? How
truly thankful we should be that we are numbered
with the people of God, that we are gathered out
of the world into His holy mountains where He
can and will take care of us- If we are faithful
notwithstanding we may have to endure many
trials we know they will be for our purification
and the Lord has said according to our trials so
our strength should be, if we would but trust in
Him.

	Then Lord to thee our hearts we'll raise
	In songs of everlasting praise;
	That we are numbered with the blest,
	Where we may live in righteousness,
	Where we may dwell till strife is o'er,
	Then reign with thee for evermore,	
								R. M. F.


