EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In future the address of the President of
the Relief Society Mrs. Zina D. H. Young will be
No. 146. 4th St. Salt Lake City, Utah.
	On account of the sketch we publish in this
 issue of Sister Presendia L. Kimball, and some
other important matter, the story, "In Rural
England,"--is crowded out, but will be continued


in the next issue of the paper. We have on hand
several notices of deaths of our good sisters who
have gone, resolutions of respect etc., also Relief
Society reports that await publication, but will
use them as soon as practicable.
	On Thursday Feb. 4, in company with Mrs. E.
Howard we went to American Fork to attend an
annual meeting of the Relief Society of that place.
A report of twenty-four years work was presented
which made a magnificent showing of what had
been accomplished in that time. Mrs. Mary S.
Hindley who has presided over that Society from
the date of its organization, and has been a most
efficient and really executive manager, was un-
able to attend the meeting on account of having a
severe cold and cough, consequently her first
Counselor, Mrs. Ellen Clark, presided. Mrs.
Mary John, Pres. R. S. Utah Stake and Mrs.
Emily G. Cluff her Counselor were present from
Provo, and there was an excellent attendance at
both meetings afternoon and evening. Bishop
Geo. Halliday manifested great interest in the
sisters labors and spiritual work. The subjects
treated upon were the general work of the Relief
Society, ministration to the sick, the needy, and
the sorrowing, the elevation and advancement as
well as enfranchisement of woman, the care and
training of children, the mother’s influence,
proper and healthful amusements, hygiene and
physiology, and the coming Jubilee on the 17th of
March, also preparation for exhibits at the
World’s Fair in 1893. The visit was a very
pleasant one, and the sisters and in fact the
brethren as well, all seemed to appreciate the
benefits and blessings to be derived from the or-
ganized work and influence of women. The only
drawback to the pleasure of the meetings was the
absence on account of illness, of the honored and
venerable President.


