IN MEMORIAM.

	Presendia Lathrop Huntington Smith Kimball,
who departed this life on Monday morning Feb.
1, 1892 was born in Watertown Jefferson Co., New
York, September 7, 1810. Her life has been 
written in the columns of the EXPONENT up to
1882, so we shall only mention a few of the most
important events. 
	Sister Kimball was the widow of Pres. Heber
C. Kimball. Her parents were direct descendants
 of the Puritans and on the paternal side from 
Simon Huntington the noted Puritan who came 
over to America in 1633, and Samuel Huntington 
one of the signers of the Declaration of Independ-
ence, Governor of Conn., and President of the
Continental Congress, was of the same family. 
Her mother was a New Hampshire woman grand
daughter of a celebrated physician who traced his
lineage from the Dymock's of Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion. The Huntingtons
intermarried with the Lathrops, another famous 
New England family from which Presendia gets
the name Lathrop as one of the representatives of 
the family. 
	Presendia Huntington is said to have been the
exact counterpart of Eliza Huntington, who is
given in the geneological book of that family as
the type of race. She had a commanding
figure and was really what one would term a 
magnificent woman physically; spiritually she 
was wonderfully endowed with those gifts and
graces that surround one with a pure at-
mosphere and help to lift humanity to a higher
plane of thought and emotion. Although Aunt
Presendia, the name by which she was best known
was decidedly of a spiritual temperament, yet she
was thoroughly practical and particularly well
balanced between the two. She was a model 
housekeeper and manager, economical and far-
seeing; in her early life had been taught those 
domestic pursuits that fitted her admirably for her
later pioneer work in new countries. 
	Miss Huntington was married at the age of 
seventeen years to Norman Buell a young man 
of industrious habits and integrity and her first 
child a son called George who is still living in St. 
Joseph, Mo., a man of considerable influence,
was born in Mannsville, Dec. 12, 1828.
	Mrs. Buell's second son Silas was born Dec.
25, 1831. and on the 13th of Nov. 1833, he met 
with a terrible accident, and was so badly burned
that he died thirteen hours after. Mrs. Buell 
was in delicate health and the shock to her sys-
tem was so terrible that it brought on severe ill-
ness, during which time her third son was born 
March 8th, 1834, the child died the same day;
they called him Thomas Dymick. 
	Afterwards they moved to Pinbury in Lewis Co.
and there they first heard the Everlasting Gospel 
as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and also 
of the Book of Mormon. This occured in 1835,

[column 2]
her mother bringing the intelligence when she
came on a visit. Soon after the Buells sold out
and the following spring moved to Kirtland Ohio, 
where Sister Presendia was baptized on the first 
of June 1836 and confirmed by Oliver Cowdery,
and her husband was baptized on the 9th of the 
same month.
	After receiving the Gospel her health was re-
stored and she was again more cheerful than
ever before since the unfortunate and untimely 
death of her little boy. September 8th, 1836, 
another son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Buell
whom they named Chauncey D. this little one
only lived a short time expiring on the 1st day of
October about three weeks old.
	In Kirtland Sister Presendia received
strong testimonies of the faith she had
embraced and saw many wonderful things, she
was one of those who heard the heavenly music 
in the Kirtland Temple, and who saw the angels
clothed in white upon the top of the Temple
seemingly walking to and fro; this was in broad
daylight in the afternoon. There was a great out-
pouring of the Holy Ghost in the Temple on 
that occasion, which was like a baptism of fire,
for every one seemed to partake of the spiritual
gifts and blessings. It was a peculiar season of
rejoicing, Sister Presendia describes one of the 
meetings in the Temple in her own language
thus.
	"The whole congregation were on their knees
praying vocally for such was the custom, at the 
close of these meetings when Father Smith pre-
sided, yet there was no confusion. The voices of 
the congregation mingled softly together. While
the congregation was thus praying, we heard
from one corner of the room above our heads, a
choir of angels, singing most beautifully. They 
were invisible to us, but myriads of angelic voices
seemed to be united in singing some song of Zion
and their sweet harmony filled the Temple of 
God."
	At another time there was what they called a 
pentecost, on that occasion the Holy Ghost filled
the house to such a degree that the congregation 
was startled not knowing what it was; to many it
seemed as though the roof was all in flames;
even Father Smith exclaimed, "Is the house on
fire?" Do you not remember your prayer this
morning Father Smith? inquired a brother.
Then the patriarch, clasping his hands exclaimed
"The Spirit of God, like a mighty rushing wind!"
	The Huntingtons and also Mr. and Mrs. Buell
went up to Missouri in the same company with 
Joseph and Hyrum Smith and their families; they 
settled in Clay Co. Mo. where they were living 
at the time the Prophet and other brethren, Wm. 
Huntington, Presendia's brother being one of the
number, were imprisoned in Liberty Jail, where
Sister Presendia had the opportunity of visiting
them, the first time with Father Huntington, 
Heber C. Kimball and Alanson Ripley; this com-
pany had the opportunity of taking dinner with 
the brethern in prison. Sister Presendia made 
a second visit to the prison with Frederic G. 
Williams; it was after that the Prophet addressed
a letter to Sister Presendia which she has pre-
served in the Prophet's own hand writing as a
precious memento dearer far than gold. 
	Mrs. Buell had a child born in Missouri while
 they were living on Fishing River in Clay Co., in 
a very humble home, there on the 24th of April
1838 her first daughter was born; she called her
Adeline Elizabeth; but this child born under the
most trying circumstances, was not destined to 
live, the hardship had in all probability been too 
great and the excitement of those days when the
country was full of mobs and armed men, was the
cause of many deaths; the child only lived four 
hours. 
	The persecution from various causes that Sister
Presendia endured in Missouri during those
dreadful times of affliction seem almost im-

[column 3]
possible to believe; and through it all she dis-
played the most heroic courage, although her
husband failed in his faith, yet she maintained
the same unflinching integrity and unfaltering
fidelity to the Gospel she had embraced, willing
to forsake all and die if neccessary.
	In the Spring of 1839 the Huntingtons were
obliged to leave Far West and Sister Buell was
left without one Latter-day Saint in that vicinity.
She never saw her mother again, for on the 8th 
of July following Sister Huntington died of the
hardship and fatigue consequent upon the perse-
cution and driving. 
	On the 31st of Jan. 1840, another son was born 
to Mr. and Mrs. Buell whom they called Norman
Oliver. In the fall of that year they moved to
Illinois and settled between Quincy and Nauvoo. 
Here they were living when the martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch took place. Alone and in 
sorrow Sister Presendia mourned, who can de-
scribe her grief, no mortal being can tell the
anguish of her soul when the shocking news 
came. 
	Sister Presendia through much tribulation had
the opportunity of receiving the ordinances of the 
House of the Lord in the Nauvoo Temple and
escaped with the Saints taking her little boy
Oliver, through the assistance of her eldest son
George and afterwards assisted by friends, 
through severe hardship and suffering, she at last
reached a place of safety, this was during the
severe mobbing and driving of the Saints in 
Nauvoo. She succeeded through struggles, pri.
vations, and numerous trials and difficulties in 
arriving at Winter Quarters on the Mo. river; she
was very ill, almost unto death, and just about this 
time her father died at Mt. Pisgah. 
	In Winter Quarters Sister Presendia had
especially wonderful experiences of various kinds
many of these are related in the sketch of her life
published in volumes 11 and 12 of this paper. 
	Sister Presendia came to the valley in 1848,
having been previously married to Pres. Heber
C. Kimball. Sister Presendia drove her own 
team a good part of the way across the plains ar-
riving here on the 22nd of September, and settled
down in the Old Fort. Jan 6, 1849, Sister Kim-
ball had a beautiful little daughter born to her, 
whom she called Presendia Celestia, and indeed
she seemed more spirituelle than as belonging to 
to this earth. 
	In the beautiful month of May the year follow-
ing this little one was accidentally drowned in City 
Creek. This was a terrible blow to the afflicted
parents; the little one had endeared herself to all
the family, Sister Vilate Kimball designated her, 
"The flower of the flock." This sad circumstance
came near being the death blow to Sister Pre-
sendia, who had already passed through so many
trying ordeals. 
	When the work of giving endowments began 
in the old Council House, Pres. Brigham Young
called upon Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Presen-
dia L. Kimball to officiate as Priestesses in the
ordinances of the House of the Lord; there she
labored in connection with Sister Whitney until
the fall of 1851. On the 22nd of Dec. 1851 her
son Joseph Smith Kimball was born. Sister Pre-
sendia looked upon him as a gift from the Lord
and has often made the remark, "He is to me an
Isaac indeed."
	After the death of Pres. Kimball even more
than previously, Sister Presendia gave her time al-
most entirely to ministering and comforting the 
sick and sorrowing, and visiting the organizations
of the Relief Society in the several Stakes of 
Zion, wherever and whenever she was called to 
go. She also held the office of Secretary in the 
16th Ward. 
	Sister Presendia was called to officiate in the
Logan Temple at the time the work was started
in that sacred edifice, and remained some weeks
after the dedication, until she was released to re-


tnrn home.  To attempt telling all Sister Presen-
dia’s labors for the good of the daughters of Zion
in blessing and instructing would be impossible,
but she has finished her earthly mission and has
no doubt received the plaudit “Well done good
and faithful servant.” She made great sacrifices
for the Gospel and remained steadfast through all.
	Her last illness was not very long, she took a 
severe cold and coughed a great deal, suffered
some from acute rhumatism but there is little
doubt that the ailment to which she succumbed
was la grippe.  Loving hands and tender, min-
istered to her wants and were ready to anticipate
her wishes from the time she was taken sick.  Her
sister Zina Young and her son Joseph were with
her constantly, and there was no lack of skillful
help for she was very greatly beloved by the 
sisters.
	Sister Kimball passed away peacefully at last
just as though falling asleep, at seven o’clock on
the morning of Feb. 1, 1892, with family and
friends around her.  It was certainly a beautiful
death, if death it can be called.
	The funeral of Sister Kimball was held in the
Assembly Hall in this city Feb. 3, the body
lay in state from nine until eleven at which 
time the services began; the stands and pillars
were draped in white with trailing smilax en-
twined and the most beautiful Bermuda Easter
lilies, emblems of purity, in vases covered with
white drapery ornamented the stands.  The 
casket was pure white and very elegant, and 
covered with flowers in various artistic wreaths,
stars, pillow etc.  But the calm and pleasant face
of the sleeper within was the grandest of all.
	There was a large concourse of people in at-
tendance and upon the stand were Presidents
Geo. Q, Cannon and Joseph F. Smith of the First
Presidency and some of the Apostles and other 
leading men.  Of the Presidency of this Stake
Pres. Jos. E. Taylor and Pres. C. W. Penrose.
Pres. Jos. E. Taylor presided, the singing was by
the Tabernacle choir under Prof. Evan Stephens
and was excellent, the first hymn was
	‘‘Farewell all earthly honors.’’
	The opening prayer was offered by Bishop O.
F. Whitney, singing the beautiful hymn,
	“When first the glorious light of truth.’’
	Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon addressed the congrega-
tion in a very interesting manner, referring to the 
condition of spirits after death, reading concern-
ing these things from the Book of Doctrine and 
Covenants.  Pres. Jos. F. Smith followed, after
reading some extracts from the Book of Alma,
he spoke upon the resurrection and the conditions
hereafter.
Much good instruction was given, after which the 
choir sang
	“Rest, rest for the weary soul.’’
	The benediction was pronounced by Apostle
John Henry Smith, a long cortege of carriages
followed the remains to the cemetery; the grave
was dedicated by Apostle F. M. Lyman, thus
closed the funeral services, for our departed
sister, and she was laid to rest with the beautiful
snow all around her, emblematic of the purity of
a higher life beyond, whither she has gone, to
meet a host of loved ones.
	Her son George Buell who resides in St. Joseph
Mo., arrived in time to attend the funeral, though
too late to see her again in life.


