NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	A woman suffrage petition with ten thousand
signatures has been sent into the Parliament
of New Zealand.

	Catherine Cole (Mrs. Field) has in the New
Orleans Picayune an excellent and suggestive
article on "The New Womanhood."
	
	One branch of the Virginia Legislature has
passed a bill authorizing or directing the
appointment of women physicians on the staff
of all insane hospitals where women are among
the patients. This is a humane and sensible
measure, which has been adopted in several
other States.

	The Congressional Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A. has taken up its headquarters in the
suffrage rooms of Wimodaughsis. Hereafter
Wednesday and Saturday mornings some
member of this Committee will be at work and
will be glad to give information concerning
suffrage work in general or that of their Com-
mittee. All letters in regard to Congressional
or press work should be addressed to Harriet
T. Upton, Wimodaughsis, Washington, D. C.

	"Dr. Mary J. Safford who died recently left
two hundred dollars to the Women's Educa-
tional and Industrial Union of Boston."
	Dr. Safford called at our sanctum in 1857
when on her way to the Pacific Coast and to
visit her brother, who was at that time
Governor of Arizona, and we had a most


interesting interview on general questions
pertaining to woman's advancement, and also
upon the situation in Utah, political, social,
moral and religious. We had the pleasure on
that occasion of introducing her to Sister Eliza
R. Snow and several of the leading men of the
Church, Gen. Wells among others in the
President's office. She was quite a remarkable
woman, specially enthusiastic at that time on
the subject sf dress reform; and believed
intensely in woman's total enfranchisement. ED.
	Miss Kate B. Sears, a young girl who, not
many years ago, came from her home in
Kansas to Boston to study modeling, has origi-
nated and developed a new idea in creamic
art. After her study in Boston, she went to
the potteries in Trenton, N. J., to experiment
with modeling as applied to pottery. She
conceived the idea of carving a design into the
dry ware before it was fired. As there were
no tools to aid in the process, she used a pen-
knife, and has carved several pieces. It was
not easy to touch firmly enough to cut the
ware and yet not to crush it, for in that state
it is fragile as a bit of hollow chalk. Each
time the success was more distinctive. The
effect of the work when done and fired,
especially when the pieces are lighted from
within, is that of moonlight falling on the ob-
jects represented. The character of the figures
portrayed is admirably adapted to this treat-
ment. There are cupids and fays and delicate
up-springing figures that are part flowers and
part fairies. And so great is the artistic suc-
cess of the new work that Miss Sears' name is
already spoken of as the designer of a distinc-
tively new and original piece of pottery.—Ex.


