N. A. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The twenty-fourth annual convention of the
National American W. S. A. was held in
Washington, D. C., Jan. 16—21. It was, of
course, a small gathering as compared with the
large assembly called together last year by the
Woman's National Council; the report of the
committee on credentials showed 71 delegates
present from 26 different States, and the meet-
ings were earnest, animated and interesting.
	The convention sermon was preached on
Sunday afternoon, Jan. 17, in the Church of
Our Father, by Rev. Mila F. Tupper, of Grand
Rapids, Mich. After the opening prayer by
Rev. Anna H. Shaw, Miss Tupper, a young
and graceful woman, spoke with earnestness
and pathos from the text, "Think on these
Things."	*	*	The meetings which followed
were all attended by interested audiences, in
spite of the weather—true suffrage weather.
*	*	Little yellow flags bearing the names
of States marked the seats of the different
State delegations, and the large flag of Wyo-
ming, with its one star, hung conspicuously
of the wall. The loss of the old headquarters
at the Riggs House, with the cordial and
generous hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. Spofford,
was much felt- But the Cochran, which had
been selected as the substitute for the Riggs,
is very conveniently situated, near both the
church and the Wimodaughsis, and it proved
to be a new hotel, clean and handsome in all
its appointments. The new quarters of the
Wimodaughsis are a great improvement upon
its former habitation. The present house is
opposite a park. The building is cheerful,
roomy and tastefully furnished, and the parlor
rented by the National American W. S. A. has
been prettily fitted up by the District of
Columbia W. S. A., and the furnishings pre-
sented to the mother association. It is im-
possible in this hasty sketch, written while the
convention is still in progress, to give more
than a hint of the earnest discussions, the fly-
ing to and fro of jokes across dinner tables till
the air fairly scintillates with wit, the swarm
of yellow ribbons fluttering on the breasts of
their excited wearers, like butterflies rocking
on flowers swayed by a lively breeze; the in-
terest of comparing notes; the pleasure of
making new friends and of meeting old ones.
Those who have been at suffrage conventions
know all about it; and to those who have not,it
would be hardly possible to describe it.
	The Programme Committee had done their
best to meet the wishes of the Convention as
expressed last year, by allowing ample time
for the transaction of business; but two Con-
gressional hearings were unexpectedly ap-
pointed for two of the mornings on which our
business meetings were to be held, and all other
less important business had, of course, to give
way to this. The hearings were on a petition
for a sixteenth amendment to the U. S. con-
stitution to forbid disfranchisement on account
of sex. On Monday morning, the House
Judiciary Committee was addressed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Lucy Stone, Miss
Susan B. Anthony. and Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker. On Wednesday morning, the Senate
Committee on Woman Suffrage listened to
brief speeches from a large number of women,
one from each State being chosen at the suf-
frage convention by the delegation from that
State. The hearings were regarded as emi-
nently satisfactory, and in spite of this en-
croachment upon the time allotted to our busi-
ness meetings, the Association managed to get
through with a great deal of work, as will be
seen when the detailed report of the
proceedings is published.
			A. S. B.
	Woman's Journal.


The innocence of childhood is sacred.


[Column 1]

