	BEAVER.

Editor Exponent:
	Having had a desire, ever since the union
of the two branches of the R. S. of Beaver
City, to see all the sisters together and think-
ing the anniversary of the first organization of
the R. S. in Beaver (City, Jan. 11, 1868,) an
appropriate time, we accordingly assembled in
the L. D. S. meeting house at 11 o'clock.
	There were present about one hundred and
fifty brethren and sisters, On the stand were

[column 3]

Stake Presidents Charles D. White and M. L.
Shepherd, also Wm. Fotheringham Stake Pres.
of S  S., and Bishop Geo. Mumford, Stake
Pres. Lucinda Howd, local presidency of R. S. 
and portions of Stake presidency of Y. L. and 
Primary Associations.  Pres. R. Tyler presid-
ing; after opening exercises Pres- Tyler stated
the object of the meeting in a few opening re-
marks.  Minutes of first organization and
synopsis of rise and progress of the Society
was read by Sister S. M. Dell.  Addresses by
Sisters M. A. Tanner, L. Howd, D. M. Cox,
H. Fotheringham, J. Bickley and R. W. 
Tyler in their respective positions as the 
different local presidents were next in order.
	An elegant and substantial lunch was next
served after which we were addressed by Presi-
dents White, Shepherd and Fotheringham,
Patriarch D. Tyler and Bishop Mumford.  All
spoke highly of the Society, the good it had
done and was still doing.  The disbursements
for charitable purposes during the last six
months being something over one hundred
dollars.
	Songs and music were furnished by our ever
genial friends Brother R. Stoney and W. G.
Bickley, assisted by May Bickley as organist,
and a string band composed of young men all 
of whom kindly lent their assistance to make 
the occasion an agreeeble one.
	During the lunch and between exercises
kindly greetings were exchanged, and after 
benediction by D. Tyler all dispersed to their
homes feeling they had spent an enjoyable
day.  R. W. Tyler, Pres. Mary A. White and 
Jane Bickley, Counselors; Alice M. T. Tanner
Sec. Louisa Jones, Assist. Sec.

