WOODBURY.

   Sister Catharine R. Woodbury who died
November 1, 1891 in the 76th year of her age
was the wife of Counselor Thomas H. Wood-
bury of the 7th Ward of this City.
	Sister Woodbury whose maiden name was
Haskell was of Puritan descent on both the
father and mother’s side; the Haskells and the
Maynard’s (her mother’s name before mar-
riage) were among the early settlers in New
England. Catharine was the eldest daughter
of Samuel Haskell and was born in North New
Salem Franklin Co., Mass., July 6, 1816.
When the Gospel was first preached in that
place, she believed and was shortly afterwards
baptized, Nov. 1841, the only one of a large
family, who obeyed the Gospel, though they
were very favorably disposed. The next May
she was married to Elder Thomas H. Wood-
bury and almost immediately left for the
gathering place of the Saints, Nauvoo, Ill.
There her first child a little daughter very
bright and attractive was born, and died. This
seemed a sad blow to the fond mother for such
she has ever been. Other children were after-
wards born to her, but she never forgot her
first born, left in the lonely grave, when in
common with others, she was forced to leave
her home in that beautiful city and journey
westward to seek a place of refuge.
	Sister Woodbury was always a genuine
Latter-day Saint, never faltering in obedience
to the faith she had embraced and for which
she had forsaken father, mother, brothers,


sisters and friends, and the comfort and plenty
of a home, where she had known only love
and tender solicitude.
	Sister Woodbury came to the valley in 1847
enduring the privations incident to that period
living in the Old Fort and passing through the
trying ordeals of those early pioneer times.
Later in life their circumstances greatly im-
proved and Sister Woodbury could enjoy more
of the pleasures and comforts to which she had
been accustomed in former days; which no
doubt she fully appreciated, though she had
never complained, or seemed to think her lot
was hard, while she had her family around her.
She was a most affectionate and devoted wife,
a fond and tender mother, a kind neighbor
and true friend.
	Sister Woodbury was a faithful member of
the Relief Society of the seventh ward and
was early chosen a teacher which office she
filled most efficiently until her health would no
longer permit of her going out.
	She suffered a great deal for a long time but
was very patient and full of faith. She will
be greatly missed and sincerely mourned  by
her co-laborers in the Society. The deceased
leaves a husband and three children, one
daughter, two sons, and several grand children
to mourn her loss. Sister Woodbury has
brothers and sisters in the Eastern States, two
brothers in the West one in Kansas and
another in Iowa, influential men, and a maiden
sister in Hartford, Conn.
	She has lived a consistent life as a Latter-
day Saint and has gone to her rest to await
the morning of the first resurrection. Her
funeral took place from the seventh ward
meetinghouse and was numerously attended.
May our Heavenly Father comfort those who
mourn, that they may have the consolation of
the Holy Spirit in this their sad bereavement.
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord
from henceforth they rest from their labors
and their works do follow them.”
						 	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
