UTAH W. P. CLUB.

	U. W. P. Club met at the parlors of Ruth
M. Fox Jan. 30th 1892 Pres. E. B. Wells in
the chair.  Exercises opened with prayer by
Susa Y. Gates.  Minutes were then read and
approved with one amendment.  Committee
on by-laws  nominated and sustained as follows
Julia A. McDonald Ellis R. Shipp and


Caroline C. R. Wells. Moved and seconded
that these by laws be prepared by the Com-
mittee and submitted for consideration at the
next meeting.
	The Pres. said she had a communication
from Washington in reference to uniting with
the International Federation of Press Clubs
of the women of all lands, which she would 
state for the consideration of the Club; thought
there were many advantages to be gained by
so doing, would be more conversant with other
club work and have greater opportunities, at
 the World's Fair. A motion was made and 
carried that we obtain the money and join the
federation as soon as possible.
	Susa Y. Gates said she had a blank to
which she would like signatures to a petition 
to Congress, to make manuscript postage as
cheap as printed matter. She also offered a
suggestion that all original articles be put in
the hands of a good reader,without signatures
with the object of improvement, thought this
should be included in the by-laws. Miss Davis
suggested that certain ones should be appoint-
ed to prepare original articles for each meet-
ing.
	An interesting original article entitled
"Prophecy fulfilled" was then read by Ruth
M. Fox. A little poem "Parting" read by
Ellis R. Shipp, A poem from the facile pen of 
E. B. Wells entitled "A Fragment" was most
expressively read by our popular elocutionist
Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, selected article on the 
"Ideal Woman's Press Club" read by Miss
Davis who also suggested that we vary our
programme by reviewing the New Publications
of Women.
	Susa Y. Gates suggested that writers should
take the Home Journal and Writer. The 
President then read an article entitled "The
admission of members to Press Clubs,,. The
doors should be guarded against adventurers
of all kinds. In large cities all candidates
should have their vouchers. Various ad-
vantages in having social communion and
refreshments. "Eating together warms the
heart and loosens the tongue" a true
exemplification of this fact then followed
through the courtesy of Treasurer Ruth M.
Fox.
	Five new members were then proposed and
unanimously sustained as members and meet-
ing adjourned till Feb. 26th 1892: Benedic-
tion was pronounced by Sarah White.
			E. R. SHIPP M. D. Rec. Sec.


