MRS. L. L. G. RICHARDS,
Salt Lake City.
DEAR SISTER LULA:
   While I have been reading the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and musing on its contents for
Christmas, I have been impressed to pen a few
of my thoughts and feelings to you. While
doing so, I hope I shall not be intruding on
your time and patience.
   I would like to tell you a little of my ex-
perience as a friend and sister in the Gospel
of Christ, thinking you may be able to explain
some things which I cannot understand.
   Often I am led to wonder why it is that 
some of our people, who were once my friends,
who came from the same country, and were
poor like myself, have now become rich, and
live in palaces; and because I have not
chanced to be favored in like manner, although
I have always worked very hard, they pass me
by and do not even recognize me. I wonder
too, if it was as hard to endure poverty here,
when all were poor, as it is now when some
are so rich and great.
   We hear a great deal about looking after
the poor among us. But I sometimes think
there is a great lack in seeking to find out the
downcast, and making them happy, I could
mention several instances of this kind which
have come under my observation. There is
too much party feeling exhibited among us as

[Column 2]
a people; and too little friendship and kindly
interest in one another, it seems to me.
   Please take this in the spirit it is given, and
answer as the Good Spirit may suggest to you.
If I am wrong, I look to you for correction. 
My desire is always to improve and grow
better.
   Hoping the present year may be to you a
happy and prosperous one,
		I am your sister in the Gospel.
M. A. 
S. L. City, Jan. 14, 1892.
DEAR SISTER M. A.
	In reply to your favor, I will say that I too
have been interested in the holiday number of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
   Next. Why should we pause to wonder at
the changes produced in some people, because
of changed circumstances? Do we not know
that only a small portion of our Father's
children possess the true independence which
keeps the heart as warm and generous under
the varied exciting influences which accompany
wealth, as it would be in the more calm and
quiet ways the poor must follow in? If we
have friends who are liable to be overcome
by the snares which riches bring, it is our duty
to breathe especial prayers for them. Our
feelings towards them should be those of pity
not of envy.
   We should ever cherish that spirit of true
moral courage which will enable us to rise
above any despondency which might come to
us because of personal slights, offered by
thoughtless or ignorant people whoever they
are.
   Our sisters of the Relief Society who are
especially engaged in the good work of looking
after the poor and needy have always much on
their hands which must be attended to. And 
if some less imperative cases seem at times
have been overlooked, there are, doubtless,
some features connected with them which
upon investigation, would render the seeming
neglect quite pardonable.
   If we know any who are cast down and in
sorrow and loneliness, it is the duty of any
of us who are numbered among the Latter-day
Saints,to cheer and comfort all such who come
to our notice.
   And now, dear sister, I will give you a few
of my thoughts, concerning the best way of
cheering sad hearts.
   We must look about us, and call to mind
how many blessings have been bestowed upon 
us; how much every one who has faith in the
Lord, Jesus Christ, has to be thankful for; the
darkness and doubt we have been rescued
from; the goodness of God made manifest in
our behalf every day, and the glorious hope
we are looking forward to. No one can con-
template these things understandingly, and be
cast down and unhappy, no matter what the
surrounding circumstances may be. And with
this view of things reflected in mind and heart,
one is ready to speak comforting words to
others.
   We must cultivate peace and good will in
our own hearts: then we shall find happiness
in life, and always have something good to im-
part to our fellow creatures.
   I shall be pleased to hear from you again
and hope for a more cheerful letter next time.
Remember the words of the wise king and
prophet.
	“A merry heart doeth good like a medi-
cine."
	May you always be blest.
