	WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of Wasatch
Stake was held at Midway Sept. 24th, 1891
Pres. Emma Brown presiding.  Conference
commenced at 10.30 with singing by the 
Midway choir "O, awake my slumbering
minstrel." Prayer by Bishop N. C. Murdock
singing "God moves in a mysterious way."
The roll was called 14 Officers present, minutes
of last conference were read and accepted.
Pres. Brown said the Lord has blessed us in
many ways, for while destruction is abroad in
the earth we are blessed with peace and plenty.
The Prophet Joseph organized the Relief
Society that it might be a blessing to the poor
and needy both temporally and spiritually.
Heber East Ward was then reported by 
Sister Margaret Muir, she said they
had many good sisters in the ward who were
up to their duties, while some were rather
backward; felt thankful to the Lord for health
sufficient to be able to come to conference,
desired the blessings of God to continue with
 us. Sister C. Foreman in reporting Heber West 
Ward said they had testimony and sewing 
meetings and she knew they were blessed of
the Lord, thought she could see a little improve-
ment, felt well in this work and to see so many
present.  Said we should endeavour to instil
principles of truth into the hearts of our
children and try to live so that when the winds
of adversity blow upon us we may be able to 
stand firm and faithful. Wallsburg was re-
ported by Sister Meacham said she esteemed
this a grand privilege to meet with the sisters
in conference, and we should show that we
appreciate the blessings we enjoy by attending
strictly to our duties as members of the Relief
Society; said there were not many that came
to meeting as a rule, but those that do come
have a good time generally; we should set an
example before our children and the world
that is worthy of imitation, if we prove faithful
the Lord will not forsake us.  Conference
adjourned till 2 o'clock.  Benediction by
Elder Robert Lindsay.

	Conference continued at 2 p. m. by singing


[column 1]

﻿"Arise O Glorious Zion,” Prayer by Elder
John Morton, singing "Once more we come 
before our God.” The Stake report was read 
by the Secretary and accepted. Sister 
Guerney in reporting Midway said they had
good meetings and some very instructive read-
ings, some are on hand to do all the good
they can while some others are quite neglect-
ful which she felt to regret; she felt proud to 
be numbered amongst the daughters of our
Father in heaven,desired the Lord to bless us
all and especially our President Sister Brown.
Sister Melisa Murdock reported Charleston
said they hold one meeting at Charleston and
the next at Baysville and they generally have
good attendance and a good time; bore a 
testimony to the truth and expressed a desire
to be counted amongst the faithful. Center
was reported by Sister Cluff; said they have
good meetings and good attendance and some
are on hand to do good while others do not
seem to realize what they lose by their
negligence. We all like to have our homes
fixed comfortable, but we must also attend to 
our duties, the responsibilities of the children
rests upon the mother, so it stands us in hand
to live faithful and set an example before them 
worthy of imitation.
	Sister Brown was pleased with the reports,
advised the sisters to continue in such a good 
cause; was afraid that those who neglected the
golden opportunities offered would be like
the foolish virgins when the Master appears;
we should visit among those who are weak
and tried,and try to do them good; if all were
to attend who are enrolled what a congregation
would be here. It behooves us to be energetic
and alive to our duties that we may obtain the
blessings promised to the faithful. The follow-
ing brethren and sisters then made some very
appropriate remarks and bore strong testi-
monies of the truth of the work we are all
engaged in Bishop N. C. Murdock, Sister Ann
Murdock, Sister Greene and Elders Morton,
Lindsay and Raymond. Pres. Brown felt to 
thank all who had taken part and the choir
for the good music rendered after which
conference adjourned to meet in Heber the 
last Thursday in May 1892. Singing
“Beautiful Zion”. Benediction by Bro. Geo.
Brown.
HANNA HARBOR, Sec.
____
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The R. S. Conference of the S. L. Stake was
held in the 14th ward Hall on Friday Dec.
18, 1891. Pres. M. Isabella Horne presiding. 
Opened with singing “O happy souls who
pray etc.” Prayer by Mrs. Jane Silcock.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice etc.” Roll called
18 Presidents, 8 Counselors and one teacher
responded. Minutes of former conference
read and approved. Pres. Horne made some
excellent remarks, and encouraged the sisters
to persevere in doing good. The wards were 
reported, S, J. Cannon, Farmer’s Ward Sarah
B.Gibson,Sugar House, Emma Terry, Draper, 
E. J. Bodell, Herriman, W. Olson, Sandy,
Agnes Cutler, West Jordan, Jane Silcock,
Riverton, M. E. Porter, Granger, M. A.
Hazon, Brighton, Counselor.------------Bluffdale.
	The meeting was then addressed by Pres.
Jos. E. Taylor, he spoke upon true charity and
benevolence, thought the teachers should look
diligently after those in need; earnestly
beseeched the sisters to exercise faith for the 
sick and afflicted, to inspire them with faith
and confidence, keep the word of wisdom, if 
you do this the sick will be healed by faith,
urged mothers to look  after the purity of 
their boys. Wherever the young mothers
have babies they should take care of their 
children first, then their meetings and instruct-
ing their families.
Pres. Z. D. H. Young entreated the sisters to

[column 2]

cultivate faith, spoke much upon the gift of
healing, and not employing Doctors, trust in 
the Lord He will help us said many other 
good things. Pres. Horne made suitable
closing remarks; singing, ‘‘Our God we raise
to thee etc.” Benediction by Pres. Jos. E.
Taylor. Adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session, Pres. Horne presiding.
Pres. Z. D. H. Young, Counselors Jane S.
Richards, and B. W. Smith, of the general 
presidency of the Relief Society were present
on the stand, Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos.
F. Smith of the First Presidency, also other
ladies upon the platform, Pres. Horne, Coun.
E. S. Taylor, E. Howard, Sec., M. W. Wilcox
Cor. Sec. of the Stake—Sarah M. Kimball,
Sec. and E. B. Wells Cor.Sec. of the Central
Board, and other women prominent in the 
work of the Relief Society.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Praise to the
man etc.” prayer by Bathsheba W. Snith'
singing,“We thank thee O, God for a prophet.”
Pres. Horne was very happy to have Presidents
Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos. F. Smith present,
and announced that they would speak to the
congregation.
	Pres. Cannon then addressed the meeting
dwelling upon the objects of the organization,
the benefits arising from such institutions,
said when the sisters meet together it is their
privilege to enjoy the spirit to exhort,
admonish, and to help each other to bear the
burdens incident to this life; we had been
called out from the nations to become a united
people, that we might not partake of the 
evils and sins of the world, we are designated
the people of God, only one here and one
there has received the Gospel, the majority of
the world have rejected it; the Lord will
gather out of this people, a people who will 
bear off this kingdom. Look at the great
responsibility that rests upon the mothers to
teach the children; many years of my life have
been spent abroad, therefore my children 
know very little of my influence only thro’ the
influence of their mother. True it is not
always the mother if the father's influence is
wholesome and proper and both are united 
their life and example will influence the
children; upon our children will rest the great
responsibility of carrying on this work, the
time will come, when it will be said, “Let us
go up to Zion to the House of the Lord,” and
that time is coming rapidly; the destiny of 
this work is upward and onward. Our 
children are our hope and though they wander
He will call them back to Him again and
they will be more easily molded to His will
than we are; they will be the expounders of
the truth.
	It will not be possible to bring all men into
the unity of the Gospel until he comes whose
right it is to reign. It is good to have zeal,
zeal in the right direction. It is now nearly 
fifty years since this organization was estab-
lished a great deal of good has been done, by
the sisters in guiding the young,  controling
the fashions, refining and improving society,
in economizing the means that the Lord has
blessed them with, try and teach those whose 
wants you supply to employ their minds to 
take care of themselves, teach them wisdom,
look after the ignorant and the careless, let
your children draw inspiration from you, to
serve God, to be honest, virtuous, pure and
true. This is but a brief synopsis of his
remarks. 
President Jos. F. Smith, “Woman’s sphere
is more important than women know of them-
selves it is only a short time ago that her
position was understood, and her influence on 
the rising generation; on the parents depends
what kind of people the next generation will
be. Mothers influence has been felt by men
to the last of their lives, either for good or
evil; in the majority of cases among us the

[column 3]

mother’s influence is for good; the speaker 
remembered his mother’s teaching him not to
partake of stimulants; mothers should teach
their sons to abstain from these things; and 
should teach her sons virtue and to be pure in
thought it will have its effect on all their after
life, mothers cannot be too careful in example
and precept. Look at the example of 
Helaman the faith of those young men with
him inspire such faith in your children; and
not only your own but it will extend further,
it will have its influence abroad even in
foreign lands,there are many that need a help-
ing hand; there is a wonderful field for you to
work in for culture and advancement, for re-
finement and purity, let us not set our hearts
on riches, and think you are better than those
who have not as much as you, if you use
means wisely, it will prove a medium of do-
ing a great work in educating those who are 
willing to be taught in many ways. Sisters
make your influence felt in the different
associations, yours is a fine mission, there is no
limit to it, you can find the amplest oppor-
tunity to do great things, help in the govern-
ment of families, educating the children is a 
great art, too much indulgence is wrong,
obedience should be taught as a duty to our
children. We have a fine body of children
good, virtuous,and God will bless such a race;
teach them to love virtue more than life; teach
such lessons to your children that if they ever
go astray you will have the satisfaction of
knowing it is not your fault. God bless you 
in all your labors for the good of Zion.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards occupied a short time
in speaking upon the duties and responsibil-
ities devolving upon the members of the
Society and the teachers particularly, gav
good counsel.
	Pres. Horne made a few remarks felt the
presence and teaching of the brethren was en-
couraging, hoped we would take a new start,
urged the sisters to buy wheat with the money
they had on hand donated for that purpose.
	Pres. Cannon added a few words in which 
he said have high ideals before you and bring
yourselves up to them.” Conference adjourned
for three months singing Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Pres. Jos. F. Smith.


