DEAR SISTER WELLS: 
	Knowing the interest you have in the well-
fare of the saints, I send you a few lines that
you and the readers of the EXPONENT may
know how we fare in this far off land of Mexico.
While you are having severe weather and are
enjoying sleigh-rides we are having beautiful
warm sunny days. The ground is dry, birds
are singing and it is like a beautiful May day
in Utah. We have had some severe weather
and two or three little scuds of snow but it
lasted but a few hours. Very little rain fell
during the summer, in consequence crops were
light and provisions are "high," butter 50cts.
potatoes 4 1/2, flour 7, dried fruit 30 cents per lb.
	Though times are hard the spirit of improve-
ment is not dead, but is manifesting itself in
the building of comfortable cottages, and ad-
ditions to houses. We are building a large
addition to our school house, when finished it
will be used for an Academy, having four
rooms, and will be a blessing to us for we are
in need of it. We are blessed with many
bright children who gave much credit to their
Teachers in two exhibitions they have had this
winter.
	The holidays were spent pleasantly and
quietly. There was a meeting in the morning
on Christmas and a programme of songs,
speeches and recitations. In the afternoon the
children enjoyed a picnic party, and in the
evening there was a dance for adults. On New
Year's it was much the same with the excep-
tion of a fellowship meeting in the morning,
in which an excellent spirit prevailed. Many
nteresting testimonies were borne showing the
remarkable manner in which our Father

[Column 2]

answers the prayers of and provides for his
children. During the Christmas week the
"Home Dramatic Club" played "Foiled" to
full houses, and did very well. One of the
"Club" painted all the scenery which was very
creditable.
	In our quiet little town there is not much
news to write to our friends, and some of us
were wishing a few weeks ago that something
would happen to break the monotony. Some-
thing quite unlooked for did happen that
caused great excitement, uneasiness and dread
of what would follow. There had been an
Election in La Ascension and through some
irregularity the votes had been cast aside and
men who were not popular with the people
had been appointed. A mob gathered and
the Presidentee, or Mayor, his Secretary, and
his brother-in-law were killed. The majority
of the residents of the town seem to have been
in sympathy with the rebels, so that there were
not men sufficient on the other side to protect
Government property. A call was made upon
our settlement for help, many of our brethren
responded, and guarded the property, but they
did not want to shed blood unless they were
obliged to do so in self defense.
	The Jefe Politica and troops from Paso Del
Norte came to quell the uprising and on their
arrival,the men who had been under arms at the
mill, dispersed and went to their homes where
some supposed ring leaders, were afterwards
arrested without further bloodshed. We had
been praying for this, for if there had been
fighting our brethren would have had to take
part.
	The President and his brother-in-law were
friends to our people,who feel very bad about
their death and sympathize with their families.
	Some of the leading brethren paid them a
visit and comforted them and expressed their
sympathy, told them of our belief concerning
deathand the resurrection. They appeared to
appreciate their visit very much. The dead men
lay in state, dressed in black dress suits with
their arms folded over their breasts. Burn-
ing candles with bows of black ribbon on them
stood at each end of the Catafalque. They
were buried quietly, no demonstration what-
ever at the funeral.
	Several officials from Paso Del Norte and
from Ascension visited our Sunday School and
afternoon meeting on Sunday the 17th inst.
The children rendered an impromptu pro-
gramme very creditably. At the afternoon,
meeting they heard the first principles of the
Gospel, and a powerful testimony of the truth
of the same.
	A lawyer present, who was one the party,
said it was a very philosophical discourse.
They seemed well pleased with us and what we
had done, and it is hoped much good will re-
sult from their visit.
	The lawyer wanted a hymn book for his
wife who speaks English, and the Jefe wanted
a Book of Mormon, both of which they re-
ceived.
	Thus another opportunity was afforded to
sow the good seed, which "Like bread cast
upon the waters," let us hope will bo found
after "many days."
			M.
	Colonia, Diaz, Mexico, Jan. 24, 1892.


Give what you have; to some one it may be
better than you dare to think.—Longfellow.


