SANPETE.
	Dec. 19, 1891, Relief Society Conference of
the Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in Manti.
Pres. M. A. P. Hyde presiding, choir sang
"How pleased and blessed was I." Prayer
offered by Pres. C. Peterson.  Choir sang "Be-
fore Jehovah's glorious throne."  Pres. M. A.
P Hyde expressed her pleasure in having the 
opportunity of meeting with the sisters in con-
ference, she felt to rejoice in this day although
we have trials of a different nature than we
have had in former times.  "The work of the 
Lord is progressing and it is necessary that we
should have a testimony of the Gospel so that
we will be able to prove faithful to the end of
our lives.  Reports were then given of the
Relief Society of Gunnison, Manti, Mayfield
and Ephraim.
	Coun. Elizabeth Allred spoke encouragingly
to the sisters and bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel.
	Sister Minerva Snow said she felt just as
young in her spirit as she did 40 years ago.
Do we appreciate the blessings we enjoy in 
having the Priesthood with us?  Seek first the

[column 2]

kingdom of God and its righteousness and all
other things shall be added unto you.
	Sister Matheni testified that the Lord would
hear and answer prayers; said woman's work is
great in her sphere.  Be humble and prayer-
ful continually that you may not be led away
from righteousness.
	Sister Tuttle, "I have spent nearly all my
life in this Church.  My heart's desire is to do
good and help in redeeming the dead.  She
then spoke in tongues which was interpreted
by Sister Casto.
	Coun. Sarah Peterson spoke at some length
in regard to the storing of wheat and fast
offering. Other sisters spoke encouraging us
to go on in the work of the Lord. Pres. M
A. P. Hyde spoke of the improvement of the 
sisters in the last few years.  Also of wheat,
famine, diseases and earthquakes.
	Coun. John Maiben encouraged us to per-
severe in well doing.
	Pres. Peterson said we should look after
the young people as they are more apt to go
astray than the older ones.  Choir sang "God
moves in a mysterious way."  Adjourned for 
three months.
	Mary Ann Frantzen, Sec.

