EXAMPLE IS BETTER THAN PRECEPT.

	The truthfulness of this saying has been proven
a great many times. We cannot put confidence in 
a person who is continually breaking the rules he 
prescribes for others.
	We may consider the counsel good and see
that it would do us good to carry out these pre-
cepts, but unless the person lives up to the pre-
cepts he inculcates himself,(or herself as the case 
might be), it does not come with so much force.
Then how necessary it is for each one to set a
good example, and not by our acts cause others
to do wrong, thereby bringing a double weight of 
condemnation upon ourselves. If we would all
strive to exert an influence for good, with our fel-
low creatures, we would not listen to evil reports
concerning a brother or sister. We would have
the spirit of charity and not judge hastily or 
rashly, for “charity covereth up a multitude of
sins.” Let us be so filled with a desire for the
good for others, that we will have no room for
the indulgence of those evil traits, envy and
jealousy. The Spirit of God cannot dwell in the
hearts of those who give way to these spirits,they
cause us to look with an evil eye upon the char-
acters of our associates. We cannot see any
good in them, their acts are turned to evil. But 
to return to our subject ‘Example is better than
Precept,” our teaching would have but little force
were we continually breaking the rules, we were 
trying to enforce upon others.
	How can we impress it upon the minds of
others that slander is a terrible sin, if we indulge
in the habit of vilifying our neighbors onrselves,
would they not throw it in our teeth and say
‘‘practice what you preach.” If we are con-
tinually breaking the Word of Wisdom, which 
the Lord has revealed for our guidance, how can 
we show to others the benefits to be derived by
the disuse of those articles mentioned in the 
Word of Wisdom, we could not have the influ-


ence that we would have, were we strict in the 
observance of these requirements.  We would
lose the spirit of the Gospel, and be classed with
hypocrites, and what is worse than a religious
hypocrite, they are despised by the honorable,
and upright wherever they are found.
								S. M. P.


