REST A LITTLE.

	Good mother, maker of numerous pies,
mender of numerous hose, overseer of a great
province—a household, rest a little. Have a
chair by the stove, and when you peep into
the oven, sit while you look, yea, even a
moment after; you will work all the faster
for the short change of posture. While mend-
ing have your chair in the coziest corner
where good light will come in and let the sun
strike upon you if possible, so that you may
get the strengthening, health-giving influence
of it. Drop your hands occsasionally and let
them rest. Let your eyes wander out through
the window glass as far as possible, and rest
your eyes by looking at something interesting
out of doors. Don't rule all the time. Drop
the reins of household government for a little
while, unbend yourself and sit down on the
rug and play with the children, and as it were
become again a child.
	Economize your strength. Sit when you
can. Do not hold the baby when it can rest
and grow just as well in its crib. By resting
when you can, by planning the work to be done
and by being systematic and orderly in all
things a woman's work at home is more easily
done.—Living Issues.


A party in honor of Susen B. Anthony's
birthday will be given in this City tonight.


[column 1]
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
	
[column 2]
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
	weeks for 10 cents. .
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

