RESOLUTIONS OF N.-A. W. S. A.

	WHEREAS, "Political power inheres in the
people," and women are people; "Taxation
without representation is tyranny," and women
are taxed; "Governments derive their just
powers from the consent of the governed," and
women are governed, and the only form of
consent known in a republic is the ballot,
therefore,
	Resolved, That we base our demands for wo-
man suffrage on political justice and the ad-
mitted principles of republican government.
	Resolved, That in deciding the political status
of women, we must consider the rights, duties,
and responsibilities that belong to them, first
as individuals, second, as citizens; third as wo-
men; and fourth as wives, mother, sisters and
daughters, incidental relations of life, which in
some cases women may never assume.
	Resolved, That the energy and enthusiasm of
women should be centered in the attainment of
their own political freedom, for until they
have a voice in making the laws and electing
the rulers of their country, they can have no
power to right the wrongs of society and no
direct influence in government.
	Resolved, That the World's Columbian Ex-
position will afford great opportunity for ad-
vancing the woman suffrage movement, there-
fore we urge the friends of this reform in the
different States to raise all the funds possible
in order to supply suffrage literature to be
sown broadcast at that time, and to do such
other work as the Association in its judgement
may deem wise.
	Resolved, That we again urge each State
suffrage society to petition its State legislature
for a thorough revision of its laws regulating
the marriage relation, so as to secure to wives
and husbands equal personal and property
rights, to mothers and fathers equal rights to
their children, and to widows and widowers
equal inheritance of property.
	WHEREAS, Article 2, Section 1, paragraph
2, of the United States Constitution, ordains
that "each State shall appoint in such manner
as the Legislature thereof may direct, a cer-
tain number of Presidential electors," and,
	WHEREAS, President Harrison in his re-
cent message has proposed to Congress to sub-
mit a constitutional amendment curtailing and
restricting this now unrestricted appointment
by the State Legislature, therefore,
	Resolved, that we recommend the friends of
woman suffrage in every State whose Legisla-
ture is now or soon will be in session, immed-
iately to petition that body to enable the wo-
men of that State to vote in Presidential elec-
tions upon such terms and qualifications as the
Legislature may see fit to prescribe.
	Resolved, That the general officers of this As-
sociation address a memorial, enclosing a copy
of the above resolution to each of the eleven
Legislatures this year in session, with the con-
sent, in each case, of the vice president from
the State in question, and ask for a hearing on
the same, and that the National American
President and the President of that State be a
Committee to secure speakers for these hear-
ings.
	Resolved, That a fund be raised by this As-
sociation to defray the expenses of the speakers
in visiting and addressing these or other Legis-
latures in behalf of Presidential suffrage for
women.
	Resolved, That we deplore the partial nulli-
fication by the Illinois courts of the woman's
school suffrage law as a defeat of the Legisla-
ture and as a wrong inflicted upon women.
	Resolved, that we favor the Australian
Ballot at all elections, believing it a move-
ment for a more honest and intelligent vote.
	Resolved, That we request all societies
friendly to our cause to designate a time in
their annual meetings for the discussion of
	n suffrage.

[Column 2]

	Resolved, That in the name of American
womanhood, we declare that our National
honor cannot be maintained by resorting to
the barbarisms of war; that the killing of
hundreds or thousands would not restore to
life the three sailors who were killed by a mob
in Chili; and that the difficulty should be
settled by agreement or arbitration.
	WHEREAS, Believing that women as a part
of the people, and therefore citizens of the
United States possess the right to vote for
members of Congress, therefore,
	Resolved, that the National American Wo-
man Suffrage Association urges upon Congress
the passage of an act to protect women in the
right to register and vote for the members of
the National House of Representatives.
	Resolved, That the school suffrage for women
now established in twenty-three States and
Territories, municipal suffrage in Kansas, full
suffrage in Wyoming, give assurance that wo-
men will eventually be recognized as the politi-
cal equals of men.
	Resolved, That in the six Territories not yet
admitted as States, we will make strenuous
efforts to secure full suffrage by statute in ad-
vance of their admission.
	Resolved, That we urge our women's clubs
and societies to use all the power they indi-
divually possess to make their influence felt
politically in the on-coming election.
	Resolved, That the circulation of woman
suffrage papers is the most efficient method of
creating and sustaining suffrage sentiment, that
every member of a local suffrage association
should be urged to take some one paper in
order to keep well informed of what women
are doing.
	Resolved, that the thanks of this Association
are due to the Rail Roads for courtesies ex-
tended, to all newspapers for full and fair re-
ports given, to Wimodaughsis for its kind at-
tentions and helpful courtesies, and to the
citizens of Washington for their generous hos-
pitality.


