	SALT LAKE STAKE ACADEMY.

	The first examination of this excellent institu-
tion took place on Friday, Jan. 28th, at the Social
Hall.  Prof.  K.  G.  Maeser was present from 
Provo.  Many visitors were present to hear the
exercises which were ably conducted and reflect
great credit upon both teachers and students.
After the close of the exercises remarks were
made by Miss Margaret D. Smith appreciative of
the efforts of the faculty and good feeling which
existed.
	Elder Wm. Done then expressed his feelings in
regard to his labors.
	Prof. Maeser then made some statements in
reference to taking charge of the institution in
addition to the Brigham Young Academy.
	The report of the principal was then presented
which made an excellent showing, but it is too
lengthy for our little paper.  At the conclusion
of the full report, and singing, the remainder of
the time was at the disposal of President A. M.
Cannon, President of the Academy Board of Di-
rectors. 
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards was first called
on to address the assemblage.  He said that it
was with pleasure that he had listened to the ex-
ercises on the present occasion.  When the
Academy was first opened, with Professor Mae-
ser as Principal, the feeling and spirit which ac-
companied its organization was one which augured
success and gave every encouragement.  The
speaker congratulated the Faculty on the progress
the pupils had made and the effective work done.
The great work in which the Latter-day Saints
were engaged was extending on every side.  It
was the desire of the speaker that Brother Maeser
should likewise extend his labors as an educator
among the people.  Not only should this class of
schools for the moral education of the young be
general among the Saints of Salt Lake Stake, but
throughout Zion,  They should be conducted ac-
cording to the plan followed by brother Maeser—
a plan which had been his life study and which, 
in his later years, was proving a most gratifying 
success.  When the Faculty of this Academy
were ready to form a more advanced class, they
would not want for room in which to prosecute
their studies.  The speaker was ready and willing
to aid all he could in the work of educating the
youth of Zion.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams said that as she looked
on the pleasant faces of the students she thought
of the saying of Jesus to His people, "Ye are
the salt of the earth."  She felt that the Lord
thought it was time that the principles of truth
were taught to the children of the Saints. They
should work while the day lasts, and if they im-
proved their opportunities they would look to
their time in school as the most pleasant part of
their lives.  This school was only one of the 
many that would be organized in Zion.  The
young should look to inward adornment, by culti-
vating their minds.  They should not follow fool-
ish fashions and violate the laws of nature, but
should learn true principles and rise above the
follies of the world.
	Elder Francis Cope, Elder A. E. Hyde, Elder

[Column 2]
Wm.  B.  Dougall each made interesting re-
marks.
	Sisters Zina D. Young thought the necessity of
educating the youth was not fully realized among
the people, and said the value of proper instruc-
tion could not be too highly estimated.  Her
earnest desire was for the success of this class of
schools which had been inaugurated under Divine
inspiration.
	Sister Lucy B. Young referred to the time of
her youth, when the children of the Saints were
compelled to hide from mobs instead of having
the privilege of attending school.  Those of the
present day could not appreciate the advantages
they possessed in their opportunities of acquiring
knowledge.  She exhorted the students to pre-
pare for the future, when the cloud would pass
from over the Latter-day Saints, and they would
be called forth to exercise powers of government
and labor for the good of all mankind.  They
should be prayerful and watchful, and learn to
obey all proper discipline.  They were followed
by  Elder  Daniel  Harrington  and  Elder  Wm.
Stewart.
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke in praise of
the manner in which the school had been con-
ducted, and trusted that the interest in it would
continue to increase.  Encouraged those present 
to look at the future and be prepared to acquit
themselves as become the sons and daughters of
God. 
	The "Doxology"  was sung, and Elder Daniel 
Harrington pronounced the Benediction.
	On Monday the second term of the Intermediate
department commences.


