NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Mme. Patti has a roomful of parrots in her
castle in Wales, and a maid is hired expressly
to attend to them.
	The death is announced of Miss Havelock,
daughter of the famous general, Sir Henry
Havelock, the hero of the Sepoy mutiny.
	Mme. Zieger, better known as Alboni, is liv-
ing yet, and singing, at sixty-two, as grandly
as ever.  So writes Adolph Houssaye from
Paris to the Chicago Tribune.
	The Princess of Wales has become Patron-
ess of the Scandinavian Sailors' Temperance
Home, and has given $250 toward the erec-
tion of a new building for that institution.
	Miss Chandramukni Bose, a native Christian
lady, has been appointed superintendent of the
Bethune School of California.  The Indian
Messenyer, the organ of the Brahmo-Somaj,
cordially approves the appointment.
	Miss Mary Horton has been elected and
sworn in as recording clerk of the Ohio State
Senate.  This is the first time a woman has
been chosen to fill that position. Miss Horton
is a graduate of the Boston High School.
	The Empress Haru-ko, of Japan, has in-
vited the German Consul at St. Petersburg,
Herr O. von Mohl, to undertake the charge of
minister and head master of ceremonies at her
court, for the purpose of introducing European
etiquette. Herr von Mohl has accepted the
offer, and goes to Japan this month with his
family.
	Mrs.  Alexander, who wrote "The Wooing
O't," is described as a short, stout, elderly 
lady, with a kindly, simple expression, and
snow-white hair, brought down over her tem-
ples in the old-fashioned way.  She looks 
much more likely to make a good flannel shirt
than to write a good novel.
	There has been a good deal of half jesting, 
half-serious talk in the papers about electing 
Mrs. Logan to the U.S. Senate as her hus-
band's successor.  The Austin (Tex.) Statesman
chivalrously says: "This we can say, that if a 
woman is to become senator, no woman is
better qualified, barring her politics, than Mrs.
Logan."
	Italy is to have a new review, given exclu-
sively to the discussion of feminine interests.
Fanny Zampini Salazaro is to be the editor of
this periodical, which is the first to show posi-
tive intellectual progress among Italian women.
The prospectus frankly says that, when she
does not marry and become the centre of a
home circle, "the Italian women is, with rare
exceptions, most unhappy, because she has not 
in herself the resources which are possessed
by educated women in other countries."


