DEAR MRS. WELLS:
	I have been mad, and sulking all this time,
because you did not come to see me when you
went to Washington; but, as the children say,
" 'Taint no fun to be mad at a person. if the
person don’t know you're made," so I now
write to tell you; and to tell you, too, how
glad my heart was to-day when the EXPONENT
came. I had been thinking of you all, and
wondering if the Edmunds-Tucker bill would
really affect your daily lives or not, feeling
sorry at the turn affairs had taken, and wishing
to know just how you felt, when here comes
the little messenger from you, containing:
"My Christmas Gift," "A New Year's Visit,"
"Candies and Creams," Views on Celestial 
Marriage," "Singing Lessons," "A New Hall
Opened," "Fragrant Leaves," "A Tribute of


Love,” “Various Qualifications,” “The Sequel,”
etc. How well acquainted I feel with dear
Helen Mar Whitney, Augusta Joyce Crocheron,
Sister Roxie and many others. Hannah T.
King—I never in life saw her face, never
heard the sound of her voice, yet when her
life came to an end, I felt the deep loss of a
friend.
	It seems to me that this agitation will adver-
tise your people widely to the nations,
		“Who'll learn the truth and real worth
		Of Saints who’ve borne oppression."
One of the G. A. R. ladies, who went with
the excursionists to California, said to me the
other day, “Come and spend the day with me,
and I’ll tell you all about my visit to Salt Lake
City.” “I will; and then I shall write to the
Mormons and tell them what you say about
them,” I answered. “Well, I cannot say any-
thing bad about them,” she said. She passed
by the Exponent office, and now regrets that
she did not pay you a visit.
	I, and many others, watch every phase of
the great Mormon issue with the greatest inter-
est. Whether Mormonism is to be, or is not
to be, is a question of vital importance.
	Wishing you well, and God speed in all
that is right, and asking God to preserve and
protect the good and innocent among you, I
remain,
	Your friend,
		Emily Scott.
Jan. 18, 1887.


