					MARY Y. CORBY.

	It is true that we live in a great and a mo-
mentous age, an age that is pregnant with 
great events. We often think, as Latter-day
Saints ought to, are we preparing ourselves for
these events as they transpire? Seme are and 
some are not. ’Tis true there are a great many
things to try and test the Saints at the present
time—what kind of mettle we are made of—we
realize this each one for herself to a great ex- 
tent. We know if we prove refractory we
shall have to be thrown back into the mill 
again and be ground over to make us more 
pliable to the master workman’s hands as we
have heard Brother Heber C. Kimball speak
about many times. We talk a great deal 
about persecution; well we think we all have
as much of it as we well can bear with forti-
tude and resignation to the will of our Hea-
venly Father. It’s a legacy the Master left us.
He said all those who live Godly in Christ
Jesus must suffer persecution for so they did
to him. Some think and say, too, are we
always to be persecuted and afflicted because
we do and dare believe in and practice plural
marriage, and are trying to govern ourselves 
under all circumstances according to the laws 
given by the Lord of heaven and earth. All 
those that do not live according to the princi-


ples of the Gospel cannot expect peace and
the smiles of an allwise providence. The
principle of plural marriage may well be
called the higher law, it is so high that very
few try to reach it; but those that do live by its
precepts they can obtain a spirit that will give
them more nobility of character and moral
courage.  Talk about courage in Mormon
women, where will you find it if they do not
possess it?  We think that the present re-
ligious persecution has pretty well tried what
kind of mettle they are made of.  We think
they have stood it as well as the men; they
have so far, and we have yet to learn of the
first one proving recreant to their covenants
and their religious obligations when even the
penitentiary stared them in the face.  Yes the
sisters have need to rejoice and be glad at
the stand they have taken for the cause of
God.
	We know that religious convictions are as
strong in women as in men or at least we think
the present religious crusade has developed
those traits in them.  Speaking after the man-
ner of Gentile love of the sexes we claim no
kin to it; our love is of a pure and high kind.
As for plural marriage it is to raise men and
women to a higher plane of knowledge and in-
telligence, when it is carried out with a pure
nature as the Author of it designed it should
be.  Our enemies want to make us believe
that it is plural marriage they are making so
much ado about.  We know better; it is a
covert attack upon the liberty of conscience
and to wrest from us the few constitutional
rights we have left us;  we can see through their
nefarious doings and that without any telesco-
pic aid.  We would not not care so much
about them or be so much annoyed if they
would hold sacred the privacy of our bed-
rooms at midnight.  How can they expect to
get their impudent inquisitiveness gratified by
prowling, spying and sneaking around by
night when all decent people ought to be in
bed.
	"We told them it would have been better
for them if their mothers or wives had given
them carpet rags to sew than for them to be in
our house at midnight." We think they will
begin to learn soon that it don't pay to be
"reckoning without their host" all the time.
We know in whom we can trust, we have
trusted Him in the past and we can for the
present and future too.  He can control all
things well for those that put their trust in
Him.  It may be thought because we have
been persecuted and driven time and again,
that we shall tamely submit to every indignity
they may please to place upon us; but with the
help of Israel's God we will show them, we in-
tend to maintain our integrity against all odds.
Let us pray to the Lord that he will preserve
to us our God-given rights and the inestimable
blessings to worship Him as we see fit.  I will
close this article with a verse from a poem of
M. J. Tanner's.

		"The rise up your voices fair daughters of Zion,
		Stand forth in the pride of your honor and worth,
	There's a power above us whose hand we rely on,
		More potent than princes and kings of the earth."

		Your sister in the cause of truth,
