EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We had a very enjoyable time here on
Christmas.  The sisters of the Relief Society
contributed freely for the purpose of trimming
a Christmas tree, and furnishing other amuse-
ments for the children.  There was a fine dis-
play of presents on the tree for both old and
young.  They were distributed on Christmas
Eve, when Santa Claus made his appearance.
We had a very pleasant party on Christmas 
night, in which a number of our outside 
friends participated.  They say they would
rather attend our dances, where good order is
maintained, than to attend those gotten up by
themselves, which generally end in a drunken 
brawl.  None of the so-called Christian re-
ligions are represented here. There are a few 
Methodists, but they have no organization.
Most of our Gentile friends incline to infidelity,
and are not inclined to persecute us, though 
we are, as yet, a small minority, and our influ-
ence, politically, is not felt.
	There are some few that are investigating 
our principles, and we hope they will see the
truth.  The Saints here are few in number,
but are trying to live their religion to the best
of their knowledge.
	The various organizations are in good work-
ing order.  The Relief Society is doing well,
considering its numbers.  The Young Men's
and Young Ladies' Associations meet conjointly
once a week, and the meetings are both instruc-
tive and profitable to all who attend.  Our
Sunday School is in a very good condition.  As
the Saints live so far apart, there are some 
mothers who take their whole family, consist-


ing, in some instances, of eight children, and
their picnic, and remain at the meeting house
the whole day, attending Sunday School and
meeting. The ward meetings are well attended.
On the whole we are trying to keep pace with
the times.
	The weather has been unusually fine this
winter, scarcely enough snow to cover the
ground. This is a remarkably healthful place;
there has been but one severe case of sickness
among our people this winter; the dreaded
diphtheria has never made its appearance here.
We, the sisters of the Relief Society feel to
sympathize with those who are being persecuted
for the Gospel's sake.  It is written, "It must
needs be that offenses come, but woe unto them
by whom they come."  Now is the time of
sifting, when all that can be shaken will be
shaken.  The Church must be cleansed and
purified, and the Saints prepared for the com-
ing of the Son of Man. We should ever be
on our guard, prepared and ready to defend
our holy religion.  The day is not far distant
when every one will have to stand for himself
and know of a surety of the truth of the 
Gospel.
	The young can no longer depend upon their
parents’ testimony, but must obtain one for
themselves.  The evil one is ever on the alert
to lead us astray into forbidden paths.
	Hoping and praying for the continued suc-
cess of our valuable paper, and for the wel-
fare of Zion generally, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					MOSELLE HALL.
Mancos, La Plata Co., Col., Jan. 7, 1887.


