EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The festivities of the holidays being over,
we have had a variety of entertainments, com-
mencing with the ladies' fair, which opened at 
10 o'clock, Dec. 22nd, with quite a variety of
useful and ornamental articles for sale.  The
Young Ladies' department was a credit to
them; the P. A. was also well represented.  A
widow, and member of the Relief Society,


Sister Halestrum, reported having made $200
off her city lot; had sweet potatoes that weighed
nine pounds.  Henry Morton had some in the
fair that weighed from seven to eight.
	On the afternoon of the 23rd the fair was
closed, the house called to order to join in the
celebration of the Prophet Joseph Smith's
birthday.  There were several present that
knew him personally, among whom were Moses
Cluff, Henry Morton, Susan Martinau and
others, who testified of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith, the great Latter-day Prophet. 
Patriarch McBride had a copy of the last ad-
dress ever delivered by him, when he addressed 
the Nauvoo Legion from the house top.	*	*
This speech was read in a distinct and audible 
voice by M. J. Ransom; an eloquent address
by Wm. Packer; remarks by W. East.  Bene-
diction by Patriarch McBride.
	On the evening of the 24th the Home
Dramatic of Pima presented the historical
 drama, entitled, "Foundling of the Forest," 
which did great credit to the association.
	New Year's day the holidays closed with a 
sumptuous dinner, given by our genial friend,
President Layton and wife, served in elegant 
style, which could not be excelled in older set-
tlements.
	Peace prevails throughout the settlements on
the Gila.  There have been no depredations
committed by the Indians since the hostile 
Chief and his band were captured and sent to 
Florida.
	There is great inducement to settlers who
like mild winters to come to the Gila; come
along, come along; don't be alarmed, Uucle
Sam is rich enough to give us all a farm.
	The people are improving.  There are quite
a number of new brick houses in course of
erection, besides a commodious meeting house
up to the square.
	God has reserved some of the fat valleys of 
Ephraim for His people, and it is only a matter 
of time to make this one of the most desirable
places on the continent.
