EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending a little meet-
ing of about twenty-five sisters gathered at the
residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp on Thursday
afternoon, January 27th. It was a brief season of
enjoyment in the outpouring of the Holy Spirtt.
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith was present and her
very presence was inspiring to others. Sister M.
Isabella Horne was chosen to preside and at her
invitation Sister Eliza spoke to the sisters, en-
couraging them to labors of love and to renewed
diligence in the duties devolving upon them, and
among other things she congratulated the younger
sisters present upon the rich experience they were
sure to gain in the present trials of the Latter-day
Saints. Many of the sisters present spoke ex-
pressing their desires to be useful in this Church
and Kingdom and to hold out faithful unto the
end whatever trials might come. During the
afternoon Sister Eliza exercised the gift of
tongues, and a part of the interpretation was given
by Dr. E. S. Barney. The spirit of blessing
seemed to rest upon Sister Eliza and the sweet
influence was diffused like a soothing balm, bring-
ing consolation to those in sorrow, or who were
passing through deep trials, as many are at present,
whose husbands, sons, sisters or daughters are in
exile for conscience sake. Such times of re-
freshing are indeed spiritual feasts.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. in the 14th Ward cele-
brated their anniversary with a very pleasant re-
union on Tuesday evening, January 25th, at the
ward hall, which was handsomely fitted up with
carpet, sofas and easy chairs and beautifully decor-
ated for the occasion. The Prest., Miss Nellie
Colebrook presided with grace and dignity and
the exercises were of an intellectual and spiritual
character. After singing, prayer was offered by
Prest. A. M. Cannon, and the members  each re-
sponded to the roll call with a motto or verse.
Minutes of the last annual meeting were read by the
Secretary and the manuscript paper entitled Our
Thoughts" was read by Mrs. Rida Taylor.
It contained many excellent articles and
expressions of thought. A recitation was given
by Mamie Morris—"I'm  Going to be Married;"
also one by Mrs. Hollings—"The King's Choice."
Interesting and instructive remarks were made by
Mesdames M. A. Freeze, M. Y. Dougall, Zina D.
H. Young, E. B. Wells, Z. Y. Williams, followed
by a speech from Prest. Cannon, in which he por-
trayed in a touching manner the conditions of
this people, and the necessity of moral purity and
spiritual advancement. Closing remarks were
made by Bishop Geo. H. Taylor, who praised the
young ladies for their efficiency, and spoke of
these associations as helps to the kingdom of God.
The President, Miss Colebrook, spoke of her
earnest desires to fulfill the responsibilities of the
position in an acceptable manner, etc., and the
meeting was adjourned for one year. Delicious
refreshments were then served to all by the young
girls of the association, friendly greetings were
exchanged, and social conversation indulged in.
During the meeting two Counselors were appointed
to assist Miss Colebrook in the duties of the Asso-
ciation; they were Mrs. C. H. Clayton and Mrs.
E. R. Shipp, M. D., two very able and intelligent
young women. The reunion was one ever to be
remembered by those who participated.


