	WHAT CAN I DO?

"What can I do," says the aged sire,
	As he stands near the bounds of life,
"What can I do other hearts to inspire,
	To help amid earth-care and strife?

"My time is far spent, for good or for ill,
	One moment I cannot recall;
My limbs have grown weary, though strong is the will
	And slowly the night shadows fall."

You can show to the youth where the pitfalls lie,
	And snares for unwary feet,
For we clearer see over days gone by,
	When the web of life is complete.

Those lessons in life are of priceless worth,
	If you've garnered the golden store;
Now bring them forth in the home and hearth,
	While you're nearing eternity's shore.

The mother dear, with silvered hair,
	Whose journey is well nigh done,
Dreams, while she sits in the old arm chair,
	With face toward the setting sun,

Of that other time, when life's sun arose,
	Pure and fresh and bright;
Thinks how the joys were oft mingled with woes,
	How tears oft quenched the light.

"What can I do, what can I do?"
	Is the prayer of her loving heart,
For those whose dreams of life are new,
	Those of her life a part.

She can strengthen the tender, untried feet,
	When the morning shadows fall;
She can teach the young hearts how to meet,
	The cares that must come to all.

She can tell of charity, faith and love,
	And the strength that prayer can give;
She can tell of that peace from heaven above
	Which helps the weary live.

The boy goes forth in the morning's beam,
	With hopes and ambition high;
The future to him is a glorious dream,
	He heeds not the dangers nigh.

Two paths lie before him, the false and the true;
	One is death, the other is life,
Which will he take, what will he do
	In this wonderful conflict of life?

What can he do, what will he do 
	To bless or to darken the way?
'Tis a question for you, boys, a question for you,
	Think well 'ere from honor you stray.

You can bring joy and strength to the home,
	Which God unto you has given,
Aye, strength and joy, wherever you roam—
	You can help to make earth a heaven,

Or you can bend its grey heads down
	So low that they cannot rise;
You can trample in dust life's brightest crown,
	That you might have raised to the skies.

You can break the hearts, most loving and true,
	Plant wormwood where roses might bloom;
A blight or a blessing will aye follow you
	In your pathway through life to the tomb.

And girlhood's dream, too, is bright and rare, 
	With no shadow of cloud or storm;
No thorn on the rose in her sunny hair,
	No cause for a fierce alarm.

But soon she will learn there's a part to bear 
	By each of God's children here,

[Column 2]
That she must have courage and strength to dare,
	To shrink not from danger near.

She can do much, in joy or pain,
	To cheer, to comfort and bless;
Can make sunshine brighter, bring hope again
	To the heart in its sore distress.

And the little ones in the household band,
	So helpless, so loving and dear,
They seem a gift from some fairy land,
	Sent unto mortals here.

Dark is the home with no baby face,
	No pattering feet, no clinging hand;
In every true heart their power we trace,
	As they lead to the Better Land.

Then, let no one think there is naught to do;
	Seek and ye shall find.
Cast in your lot with the good and true,
	And work to save mankind.
					Hope.
		[signature on document] Sarah E. Russell


[Column 1]
		MARGARET FULLER OSSOLI.
	In the present day educational advancement
among women is so common, and their oppor-
tunities for learning are so general and excel-
lent, that when some bright star like H. B.
Stowe, Julia Ward Howe, Miss Woolson,
Adelaide Proctor, or Helen Hunt Jackson,
beams forth and illumines the pages of our
literary life with her sparkling effulgence,
little wonder is shown; we read, we criticise,
and we admire; we behold another name added
to the immortal list in much the same manner
as the calm astronomer beholds the appearance
of a new planet. It is there in the firmament,
shining with the others; it pleases, but causes
neither wonder nor surprise.
	Things are now changed; only a few years
since they were very different. The highest
privilege accorded womankind was but a
meager education, with a few accomplishments,
such as dancing, music, and a little French
added, for the benefit of the social circle, and
the prejudice against further advancement for
women ran so high that few dared venture be-
yond the allotted line and cultivate with higher
learning, the rich and fertile intellect, and feed
with knowledge, the hungry, starving soul.
Now, when annexed to the finest colleges in
the world, are schools for women, when women
own and conduct such colleges as Vassar, for
the sole purpose of the higher education of
their sex, when they own and publish promin-
ent newspapers, and are gladly admitted as
contributors to the finest magazines of the age,
when every little town can boast its "Ladies'
Literary Club," do we stop to consider how
much is due those few brave souls, that pierced
the veil of prejudice and paved the way which
led to this glorious result? Foremost among
these daring women stands the subject of this
sketch, a rare and wonderful woman—Margaret
Fuller Ossoli. Often, as we observe some vain
woman seeking fame, we think what a mistake
her life is; how beautiful it might have been in
the sphere of home; there she would have
been a queen, while in seeking for public notice
in the world, she is lost. This idea must be re-
versed with Margaret Fuller, for had the
world to which she rightfully belonged seized
her from the narrow, binding home, which
sacrificed her very life to its little exacting self,
it would possess, among its literary gems, the 
purest and loveliest of Pearls.
	It is, indeed, sad to behold her struggles,

[Column 2]
ever reaching, ever aspiring for refreshing
draughts from the cup of knowledge, and as
constantly being drawn back and bound to the
rack of sacrifice; yet, with all her longings
for knowledge, and aspirations to make a bene-
ficial use of her talents, in no way did she ne-
glect those homelier duties her home required,
but with a truly noble grace bore all her bur-
dens. Those who knew her best describe her
as "equal to doing everything at once," and it
was known, that she could rock a cradle, read a
book, eat an apple and knit a stocking all at
the same time.
	Margaret Fuller was born May 23rd, 1810,
in Cambridge, Mass. Her father was a gradu-
ate of Harvard, highly cultivated, but stern,
proud and exacting; full of candor, independ-
ance and self-conceit. Her mother, beautiful
as a flower, but also as delicate and frail. The
daughter, resembling more the father, still
possessed the mother's sweet disposition.
	And perhaps it was due as much to her
training as her nature, that she possessed so
many of her father's traits, for from her early
childhood he conducted her education and took
full charge of her outward life. It was he
who decided what dresses she should wear, and
what society she should cultivate. Her educa-
tion was carried on by a "forcing process;" at
six she studied Latin, and from that time on
was forced through all the harder and most
difficult tasks of learning. Added to such ex-
treme mental training, an unconscious neglect
of her health, her constitution was undermined
and ruined, a fact which she in later years felt
deeply, for she wrote, "I cannot help mourning,
sometimes, that my bodily life should have
been so destroyed by the ignorance of both
my parents." Still, this hard student life
could not have been disagreeable to her, for
later, when she had the management of her
own time in her hands, we read of her as active
and busy as when under her father's tutelage.
At the age of fifteen, after two years diligent
study at a private school in Groton, she de-
voted herself more assiduously than ever. Her
time was systematically employed; she rose
at five in summer, walked an hour, practiced
an hour on the piano, breakfasted at seven,
read "Sismondi's European Literature" in
French till eight, then "Brown's Philosophy"
till half past nine, went to school for Greek at
twelve, and then practiced again till dinner.
After the early dinner, she read two hours in
Italian, and the remaining part of the day
devoted to the family until eleven, when she
retired to write in her diary. Such a busy life
is indeed wonderful in any one, much more
so in a girl at the age of fifteen and sixteen, a
time when most girls prefer amusement to
study.
	It would be the highest pleasure to trace her
life from this time on, and repeat the many
bright, touching and interesting anecdotes con-
nected with her history, as we read them in her
biography, but here we have only space to note
the main issues of her life, and must pass
carelessly by her interesting girlhood at Cam-
bridge, where she studied in the same classes
with Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes and Richard
Henry Dana, assisted her father in the enter-
tainment of President John Quincy Adams,
and reigned a queen in the society of the class
of 1829, said to be the most eminent class that
ever left Harvard, including, as well as the
two before mentioned, William Henry Chan-
ning, James Freeman Clarke, and others of


[Column 1]
equal note; also only glance at her life at
Groten, where the family moved in 1833. It
was there her father died, and there, also, be-
gan that never ending series of gentle sacrifices,
which so enrich, yet sadden her life’s history.
Cold and stern as this father had been, she felt
the fullest appreciation for his devotion to her
education; and though she missed, as a child,
that innate tenderness a father usually be-
stows on his children. in later years she realized
his true worth, and attributed his austere and
restrained manner more to the nature inherited
from a race of proud and opinionated men,
than to a want of an affection for herself. She
maintained herself and educated her brothers
and sisters principally by school teaching in
Providence and Boston. Whatever her task,
she worked laboriously and well, and left 
nothing unfinished. 	
	When men and women grown, these brothers
and sisters needed her aid no longer, and she
was free to select her own course, to begin to
live her true and perfect life, we behold her no
longer young, vivacious and able, in all respects,
to launch forth in her true sphere, the critical,
exacting, but loved literary world, but in
health, completely broken down, and impover-
ished in wealth, still rich in the posses-
sions of a well stored mind, and of
firm friends and admirers, such as
Ralph Waldo, Emerson, Elizabeth Hoar
Horace Greeley, Dr. Holmes, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne, Theodore Parker, and many, many
others of the leading minds of the age. It
must have been a woman of great ability who
could found the first literary club in America,
and conduct with ease and grace conversations
on such subjects as only interest philosophers
and the deepest thinkers. Yet Margaret
Fuller did this, and more. She was a reformer;
she wasted no time in "small talk," but inter-
ested in the leading subjects of the world the
leading minds. To think well, and to speak
understandingly leads to a desire to advance
thoughts to the universe, and out of the literary
club grew The Dial, the first really literary
magazine on this side of the Atlantic, and
Miss Fuller was given the position of Editor.
The magazine was a quarterly, and though it
claimed as contributors names which now hold
the highest rank in American literature, it
lived only four short years. Its early death
was certainly due more to an uneducated, un-
appreciative public than to a want of genuine
worth.
	After the beginning of The Dial Margaret
Fuller’s literary career was fully assured, and
from that time many rich and perfect gems of
thought have delighted the literary world.
She was a great lover of German literature,
and we are indebted to her for some of the
finest translations of Goethe and Eckermann.
She assisted Horace Greeley in 1844 in editing
the New York Tribune, and won great praise
for her literary criticisms and philanthropic
discussions. After nearly two year’s labor on
this newspaper, Miss Fuller realized the fulfil-
ment of one of her early dreams—a journey
to Europe. She was charmed with her visit to
England, where she was most hospitably re-
ceived, and had the pleasure of meeting so
many prominent people, among these, Words-
worth, Dr. Chalmers, De Quincy, Johanna
Baillie and Carlyle.
	After a pleasant and most interesting sojourn
in Paris, she hastened to Italy, the country
which had always held for her, beyond all
others, the greatest charm, and, though she
knew it not, her destiny as well. Here all the
fullness of her feminine soul found a sweet,
abiding place, and we behold Margaret Fuller
in the sweet aspect of a wife and mother. A
strange love story ’hers, but simple and beauti-
ful in the extreme. Her life in Italy was full
of adventure and saddening phases, but it was
crowned with such a perfect love, that her days
there were certainly the happiest of her life.

[Column Two]
She met the Marquis Ossoli at St. Peters, while
searching for some missing friends; he,observing
her discomfort, assisted her, and, failing to find
her friends, accompanied he home. After this
first chance meeting, the Marquis was fre-
quently seen to pass up and down before the
house, and slowly a more familiar acquaintance
began, which finally ended in avowal of
his love, and an offer of his hand in marriage,
which she at first declined; not because she
lacked in affection for him, but she scarcely
dared think him in earnest; and many have
wondered at so strange a union. He a young,
handsome, Italian soldier, of high rank, and
she an American lady of thirty-seven years,
plain, literary and poor; but one would never
doubt his sincerity after a perusal of the letters
exchanged between them, the only records
saved of her Italian life save a few reminisences
of personal friends, who describe him as his
wife’s adorer, and her married life as complete.
The exact date of her marriage is not known,
but her babe was born September 5th, 1848.
She was in Italy during the exciting time of
the Revolution, and her husband bore arms
on the side of the Republic, against family
and friends. She performed a most noble part
in influencing her friends on the people’s side,
and devoted herself, during these trying times,
to nursing in the hospitals. Always a leader,
—in mind and the literary field a George Eliot;
in the hospitals and battlefield, a Florence
Nightingale; in her home and heart, a wife
and mother—such as her own sweet mother had
been before her. Just at the sublime moment
when her future looked so bright, how sad that
the end of all should come.
	She had strange forebodings concerning her
homeward voyage, and greatly dreaded the un-
dertaking, but they finally sailed May 17th,
1850, from Leghorn, and after a long, periious
and unpleasant journey (the captain having
died of small pox, and her own [----] child
only saved from the same fate by the most ten-
der watchfulness) they came in sight of the
shores of her "own America," only to lose
sight of them forever more. On July 19th,
at four o’clock, the vessel was wrecked off the
coast of New Jersey, and the Ossolis found in
each others arms an ocean grave. With true
love for her little one’s life, she wrung herself
from its tiny clasp and consigned him to the
steward, with the hope that his life, at least,
might be saved from the wreck, and borne to
her friends at home, but, alas! when the shore
was reached, his little life also had gone to
that other, higher home, and all the friends re-
ceived of their dear Margaret was the lifeless
body of her boy, and the touching letters
written by herself and husband.
	It was a most tragic end, but her life, though
short, was well spent, and we can truly say,
"She did not live in vain."
					A. W. C.
				[signature on document] Annie W. Cannon


