		COMMENTS.

	We have republished, from the Woman's Jour-
nal, several notices of the Edmunds Tucker Bill,
or, at least, that part of it which relates to dis-
franchising the women-voters. It will be observed
from the tenor of these extracts that the woman
suffrage people are not afraid to speak their minds
on this subject, though prejudice is rife in the
land, and even men in high places are swayed by
it, against the principles of equal rights for all be-
fore the law, who have not been even accused of
crime. How men dare do the things that have
been done, and that they have actually sworn not
to do, is astonishing, They will uphold the Con-
stitution of the United States, so they solemnly
affirm, and yet, invested with the power that the
people give to them, to sit in the Congress of the
United States, they boldly acquiesce in a scheme
to take away from one portion of the citizens of
the United States the liberty of conscience and
the right to an establishment of the religion in
which they most profoundly believe. 
	The noble band of suffrage women, who assem-
bled in National Convention at Washington, on
25th, 26th and 27th of January, have shown their
independence and fearlessness of spirit in memor-
ializing the President of the Great Republic, and
asking him to veto a bill which deprives women,
not in any sense under the ban of an unconstitu-
tional law even, of a right and privilege bestowed
upon them in strict accordance with the law of the
Territory, and which has become to them a right
of possession of seventeen year’s standing. These
grand, heroic women stand forth as champions of
justice, and deserve the praise of all men and all
women throughout the land for the step they have
taken to defend the rights of those, who are, as it
were, powerless to act in their own defense, be-
cause of the bigotry and prejudice which exists in
this boasted age of enlightenment, and in the
country which has proclaimed religious liberty to
all mankind. No convention, or conference of
men, no, not even ministers of the Gospel of
Christ, have done as much; and yet their motto is,
and they emblazon it forth, “Do unto others as ye
would that they should do unto you,” and, “What-
soever ye would that men should do unto you do
ye even so to them, for this is the law and the
prophets.” This is the law of the Savior, the
pattern for all to follow, but O how far men fall
short of this divine law!
	The bondage that the Congress of the United
States seems willing and even anxious to force the
"Mormon" people into, is little better, if any, than
the slavery of the South, for even the slaves
could believe as they pleased without any limita-
tion by law. To be sure they were bought and
sold for a price at the will of their masters, while
this people are given, with all their possessions,
into the hands of a minority, who, it is well known,
would rob and despoil them of all that is sacred
and dear in this life.
	It is argued that those who have not practically
accepted plural marriage uphold and sustain those
who have, and for that reason they should be dis-
franchised and not allowed the privilege of free
men. This is an assertion, but, granting it were
true, look at the facts. Those who are known or
suspected to have obeyed this law of marriage as
a sacred duty and obligation devolving upon them,
through revelation from God, are, through the law
of 1882, subject to bonds, to fines and imprison-
ments and indignities of this nature, brought be-
fore commissioners, courts and juries, their names
cast out as evil, and their wives and children sub-
jected to insults which makes one’s blood boil to
think of. Are they to be cast off by those of the
same faith? Is there to be no succor, no hope for
them from this persecution that is being so relent-
lessly and cruelly waged against them? 
	Many of these women and children, aye, and
the husbands and fathers of them, are of the very

[Column 2]
best blood of this proud Republic! Yet it avails
them nothing. In the fear of God they have
made eternal covenants, that cannot be broken,
and yet, because they will not belie their own con-
victions, they must be made the victims of oppres-
sion, which makes every drop of free blood in
their veins tingle with indignation to think of.
Only the Spirit of God could support them under
these trying circumstances; the humility born of
faith with which every true Latter-day Saint is im-
bued, is what sustains them in the ordeals through
which, as individuals, and as a people, they are
now passing, for they know their cause is just and
will eventually triumph.
	It is gratifying, however, to know, in the midst
of such a state of things as exists at the present
time, that President Cleveland is not to be hood-
winked by even the ablest and most popular mem-
bers of Congress. He has already shown his
pluck on more than one occasion, and if he will
carefully consider the serious matter of affixing
his signature to the Edmunds-Tucker Bill, he will,
in all probability, refuse to commit so flagrant an 
outrage upon a class of citizens simply for their
religious belief. But if he does, or not, do this
gross wrong, Miss Anthony and her coajutors
have performed a duty in this regard, that entitles
them to the honor and respect of all the world.
	The convention may be proud of the success of
the committee who presented that memorial, for it
has elicited from the Chief Executive of the nation
more of his views upon the matter than has before
been given publicly, at least. Some of those ex-
ultant champions of the Edmunds-Tucker Bill
may, perhaps, think they were a little too sure of
the co-operation of every one who denounced
polygamy. Miss Anthony denounces polygamy,
too, but she believes in human rights, nevertheless,
and does not sanction the taking away, without, at
least due process of law, privileges from those
who have been denied the right to vote and hold
office, etc., under the law of 1882 and have had no
opportunity to defend their position. It is an as-
sumption on the part of those who have interpreted
the law, there has been no criterion to judge by, 
except as the Utah Commission have appointed
certain registrars, who have refused to register
people whom they suspected, or have erased their
names from the list of voters.
	Not only does Congress impose great hardships
upon the people of Utah, but seems determined
to make a strong point against the admission of
any other Territory into the union unless it will
make certain Constitutional provisions against the
practice of polygamy. And yet, the very men
who ask for this believe the Bible and know that
men of God in ancient times practiced polygamy.
Men who have been held up as examples and rev-
erenced all down through the ages of the world.
Jesus himself said, "Except ye do the works of
Abraham." and what would that convey? The
Lord said unto Abraham, "Thy posterity shall be
as numerous as the sands upon the sea shore.'
This was the blessing of Abraham from the Lord,
and yet the Congress of the United States would
prohibit a man having any posterity at all, if his one
wife should fail to give him offspring. And in-
deed the popular thing now and in many in-
stances the practice is, not to multiply and re-
plenish the earth, in place of fulfilling the first
commandment given to our first parents.
	But to come back to the original subject of
suffrage or the ballot in the hands of the women
of Utah. Where is the first person who can say
they have abused that privilege? There is not
one. They have held the ballot sacred and have
always been on hand to exercise the right and
cast their votes for the men of their choice, those
whom they knew to be worthy the positions to
which they were nominated, and like wise and
prudent citizens they have voted for their friends
and not for their enemies.


