	Y. L. M. I. A., RIVERDALE.

	The Young Ladies’ conference convened at 
Riversdale, Dec. 2nd 1886.  President Russell
presiding.  The meeting opened with usual 
exercises of singing and prayer.  The pro-
gramme was as follows:  A  Song by Annie
Stratton and Lizzie Stimpson; the Young
Ladies’ Instructor, our manuscript paper, by
the editor, Julia Child, Essay, entitled “Watch
and Pray,” by Nellie Child; Song by Jessie 
Bingham.
	President Russell stated that one important
object of the meeting was to select a second
counselor in the place of our former one, who 
had lately been united in matrimony and had
changed her abode.  Felt to ask an interest in 
the faith and prayers of all present that she
might be dictated by the Spirit of the Lord to
choose the right one, and one that would be 
acceptable to  all.  Had fasted and prayed 
considerable that the Lord would make known
to her one,  whom she should choose, and
thought that her prayers had been answered
and that the Lord had blessed her with this
knowledge.  Did not wish to do anything of 
herself but felt to put her trust in the Lord;
for this reason she felt that it was the will of
the Lord to select the one on whom she had cen-
tered her mind; said we will all receive great
blessings through fasting and prayer.
	Counselor Bybee felt thankful for the privi-
lege of meeting with the sisters, and said we
had the Spirit of the Lord in our midst. If
we will continue to fast and pray the Lord will

[Column 2]
continue to bless us with His Spirit and to 
strengthen us.  Gave God the praise for all 
blessings and for His Holy Spirit; and felt as 
though we were all anxious to hear the word 
of the Lord spoken unto us.  Desired that we
might be firm and faithful to the end.
	Sister Edna Stimpson said she was weak
of herself and without the Spirit of the Lord 
she was unable to accomplish anything.  Had
received many blessings from the Lord for 
which she felt thankful.  Had prayed that 
our President might be inspired of the Lord 
to chose a counselor. 
	Sister Martha Bingham said that she de-
sired to live so as to merit the blessings of God.
If we neglect praying to God for His Holy 
Spirit to guide us we will be apt to fall. The
Lord desires us to be faithful and to do away 
with all little evil thoughts and practices; and 
we must try to be pure and honest and strive 
to overcome all our weaknesses, and be united 
in  all things.  Desired  that  the Spirit of the 
Lord would enable us to see eye to eye and be 
as one.
	We have many blessings bestowed upon us
through fasting and prayer; felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things and prayed
for wisdom and faith  to do right.
	By request of the President Sister Bingham 
then presented  Julia A. Child as a second 
counselor to Sister Russell.  She was unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister Marian Mitchell thought the selection
of a counselor was a wise one; she had prayed 
earnestly that the President might be dictated
by the Lord to choose the proper one to fill that
place.
	A quotation from a poet was forced upon
her mind to the effect that “We will not only
be held accountable for every idle word but
also for every idle silence.” We are idle
sometimes when we should speak and this is the 
case especially in our meetings.  We should 
rise and speak of God's goodness to us. May 
the Lord bless us both in meetings and at 
home.
	Sister E. V. Thompson thought the previ-
ous speaker had opened a good subject for all.
We should watch our children and families
and when we see them doing something that
is not right we should rebuke them, and not 
remain silent when we see that we should
speak.  We can do so in a mild and gentle
way, thought there were times when even the 
best of us needed rebuke.  We should all try to 
sustain our Presidents and thought the coun-
selor a good one, and felt to sustain her in her
labors.
	Sister McDonald bore her testimony to the 
truth of this work; was well pleased with the 
choice of a counselor and thought the Presi-
dent had been dictated by the Lord to choose
her. Prayed that we might all be united as
one.
	Sister H. A. Child felt as though the Lord had
dictated the choice of a counselor; was thankful
that she had a daughter that was worthy to
hold the position, and was willing to do all
in her power to help the young people along;
wished to give them all the chance while
young, to prepare themselves to hold responsi-
ble positions. Said that God had blessed her 
in her family, and felt a desire to see all her
brothers and sisters do right, and prayed that
the Spirit of the Lord would bless all with
obedience, felt to counsel all in righteousness.
	Bro. Olmstead, Bro. Dye, Bro George
Thompson each made interesting remarks.
	Sister Sarepta Child bore her testimony to 
the work we are engaged in; thought the 
counselor that had been chosen was the right
one as she had always set a good example for 
others. 
	Sister Bingham made a few remarks con-
cerning our religion.  We must obey all the 
laws of God and especially the smaller ones

[Column 3]
and climb the ladder by degrees and not ex-
pect to leap over all the smaller requirements
and then hope to live in the highest ordinances
and enjoy the highest blessings.  Gave many 
good instructions and exhorted all to obey the
commands of God.  She was then blessed
with the gift of tongues, Sister H. A. Child
giving the interpretation in part, Coun. Bybee
giving the remainder.
	Coun. Bybee was then released and Jennette 
Parker was unanimously sustained as First
Counselor to Prest. Russell. Polly Child was
sustained  as  Secretary  for  the association. 
After a few closing remarks from the President
and singing the conference was adjourned for 
six months.  The benediction was pronounced 
by Mary Dye. 
