A CRIME AGAINST LIBERTY.

	The U.S. House of Representatives, on the
12th inst., passed an anti Mormon bill which
proposes to abolish woman suffrage in Utah.
	It annuls all Territorial laws providing for
the identification of the votes of electors at
any election, and all laws conferring on the
Territorial courts the power to determine di-
vorce cases.  Polygamy is defined as a mar-
riage between one person of one sex, and
more than one person of another sex, and
is declared a felony.  The financial corpora-
tion known as the Church of Latter-day Saints
and the Perpetual Emigration Fund Company
are dissolved, and the attorney-general is di-
rected to wind them up by process of court.
All laws for the organization of the militia of
the Territory and the creation of the Nouvoo
Legion are annulled.  Polygamists are, as be-
fore, made ineligible to vote, and a test oath is
prescribed to all persons desiring to vote, that
they will obey the laws of the United States
and especially the laws in respect to the crimes
defined in this and the original Edmunds act.
The bill provides for the immediate appoint-
ment, by the President, of all judges and se-
lectmen of the county and probate courts, and
by the Governor of all justices of the peace,
sheriffs, constables, and other county and dis-
trict officers.
	The bill, as amended by the adoption of
the substitute, has now been transmitted to the
Senate for the action of that body.
	For nineteen years women have voted in
Utah as generally as men:  they have com-
manded the sympathy and the respect of the
community, and no considerable number of
residents of the Territory, except the Federal
office-holders, are in favor of their disfran-
chisement.  In a Democratic House of Re-
presentatives, by the united action of both
parties, the political rights of many thousand
American citizens are to be stricken down,
solely because they are women, and because
they actually use their right of suffrage.  All
the women disfranchised by the bill are inno-
cent of the crime of polygamy, for all poly-


gamists, male and female, have for years been
disfranchised.
	At the opening of the debate it was ruled
that no amendments to the Senate bill, except
those proposed by the Judiciary committee,
should be received, whereupon Governor Long
pleaded for unanimous consent to offer a mo-
tion that the clause against woman suffrage
might be stricken out.  But even this privi-
lege was refused.  Mr. Long would like to
leave the Territorial Legislature free to deal
with the question of suffrage for women.
	The adoption of this infamous bill by the 
Republican Senate is a foregone conclusion.
The President will be urged to veto it.  If he
does not, its next stage will be before the Su-
preme Court on the ground of unconstitution-
ality.—Editorial, Woman's Journal.
							H. B. B.


