A HUMBLE TESTIMONY.

	It seems that the time has fully come when
the daughters of Zion are called upon to raise
their voices and declare unto the nation and
the world the testimonies which God has given
them of His work in these last days. I believe
that a sense of duty, prompted by the Holy
Spirit, is resting upon many of our faithful
sisters, to not only speak in their meetings, and
bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel, but
to write and send it abroad in the world, that
all mankind may fully understand that they
are united with their husbands in bringing
about the glorious plan of salvation.
	When I read in the EXPONENT the humble
testimonies of my dear sisters, I know what
they say is true, for the same spirit has revealed
the same to me. I claim no praise or honor
for having submitted to the law of celestial or
plural marriage. I could not do otherwise, for
the simple reason that, through faith in God,
and prayer, I received a testimony that it was
true; and this was the testimony: “That it will
exalt the human family to a joy and glory that
they cannot attain to in any other way.”
	Soon after receiving this testimony I was
shown in plainness that I was called upon to
enter into that order. I informed my husband
of this fact; he said he had no idea who it
would be that he would ask to come into our
family; he was afraid of hurting my feelings,
and was also fearful that he could not do right.
He was afraid of his own weakness.
	One month had not passed since this time
until we found ourselves living in this order of
marriage with a young woman that neither of
us had seen since she was about seven years of
age. Surprised as I was, I can truly testify
that it was the happiest announcement that
ever came to my ears. Yet it was not I—
poor, weak, frail human being—that could as-
sure happiness upon such an occasion; but that
same spirit which had given me the testimony
also gave me joy and happiness, which the
world knows not of. Did I think less of my
husband? I can say, no! but, on the contrary,
I loved him more, for I felt that he had a true
heart, that he was willing to obey God’s laws,
and I said, “By the help of my Heavenly
Father I will help you to live according to the
law of God.” The woman he married, no one
can say aught against her; she is a true Latter-
day Saint, and many times have I felt to thank
my Heavenly Father for such a worthy, good
woman, and I have tried to make her happy,
and hope that I may always be found worthy
of the constant companionship of the Spirit of
God, for I know that He lives, and that His
hand has been over me from my earliest recol-
lections, and that He will help all those who
put their trust in Him, and I feel to say to all
those who are living in this holy order of mar-
riage, “Lift up your heads and rejoice, for you
are serving a good Master, who will repay in
His own due time, and you will rejoice and
your happiness will be sufficient for you, and
exceed all you ever anticipated.”
	Let women, who belong to the same family,
pray for one another; sustain your husbands; 
teach your children to respect each senior 

[Column Two]
member of the family; do not allow your
daughters to speak reproachfully of the sister-
wives, and God will bless you, and His Spirit
will be with you always, which will cause your
burden to seem light unto you, for God has
said that He would have a tried people; for
how will he know that they love Him above
all other things? We should acknowledge
His hand in our trials as well as in our joys.
We must learn to overcome all things that try
us here; if we do not, we will have them to
overcome when we find ourselves in another
sphere.
	I was once sorely tried, and I said to myself,
“I feel as though I could not go one step further
in this world, and I don’t care if I die!” Some-
thing instantly whispered, “If you cannot
overcome in this world, how do you expect to
in the next?” which caused me to stop and
think that I had better learn more patience
and try again. But how merciful is our Hea-
venly Father; if we could only be so merciful
to each other, and always be willing to forgive
—we must learn to forgive even our worst
enemies, to say nothing about those with whom
we expect to spend all the endless days of eter-
nity. The Lord has said, “Vengeance is mine,
and I will repay.” We should leave all
things in His hands; even all our troubles, if
we go to Him in the hour of need, He is able
to make us strong, and if we desire it, He will
give us wisdom, that we will be enabled by our
own actions to escape much trouble.
	Sisters, above all things, trust in God; have
faith, and cultivate and exercise patience, and
we will overcome, which is the desire of, 
			Your sister in the truth,
								PHENA.
	Jan. 18,1887.


