Excerpts from the Idaho Falls Temple Dedicatory Prayer President George Albert Smith r\ thou great and eternal God, Father of our spirits, Creator of the heavens, the earth and all things therein; before whom all things are present, whether past or yet to come; full of mercy and love, guided by wisdom, judgment, and justice in their perfection; in humility and with thanksgiving and with our hearts filled with gratitude unto thee, we approach thee through thy Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, our Elder Brother, who, through the great and exquisite sacrifice wrought out for us, magnanimous beyond our comprehension, made it possible that we might approach thee in humility on this great occasion, with our petitions and supplications, in this House which we have built to thy most holy name. We pray thee that thou wilt cause our hearts to be purified in thy sight and our faith in thee to be multiplied and increased so that our petitions may reach thy holy habitation and be answered in our behalf in accordance with thy infinite wisdom and love, and grant that the blessings we here seek may be fully realized to thy name's honor and glory. We thank thee for having raised up thy servant, Joseph Smith, and that thou didst endow him and inspire him and reveal unto him thy great purposes, and that thou didst manifest thyself and thy Beloved Son unto him, and didst cause holy resurrected beings to minister unto him and to confer upon him the Holy Priesthood after the order of thine Only Begotten Son, and its appendage, the Aaronic Priesthood. We are grateful unto thee for those who now preside over thy Church. We pray that thy servant, George Albert Smith, may be endowed of thee with a vigorous body and mind, with health and strength, and with the spirit of prophecy, seership, revelation and of presidency, and with the ability to magnify thy great and holy name. Bless his faithful counselors, Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. And David Oman McKay, whom thou hast given to advise him and assist him, that they may possess great wisdom and excellent judgment in all matters pertaining to thy Church. Grant that perfect love and confidence may exist in this thy Presidency that they may be united as one in all things pertaining to thy work. Page 645 Confer upon thy people, and especially upon thy leaders, in all of their various callings, thy precious gifts of love, wisdom, and judgment, knowledge and understanding, faith and the spirit of testimony, light, intelligence and capacity, and every attribute, blessing, gift and qualification either necessary or desirable for them to have and enjoy in order that thy great and important work may go forward to consummate its glorious purpose. Father, wilt thou preserve thy saints in the unity of the faith, in the way of truth, in the bonds of peace, and holiness of life. We pray for the daughters of Zion. May they be preserved in virtue, chastity and purity of life, be blessed with vigorous bodies and minds, and with great faith. May they develop into true womanhood and receive choice companions under the new and everlasting covenant for time and for all eternity in thy temples provided for this priceless privilege and purpose. May they too be privileged to enjoy as the fruits of their union a noble posterity which, we pray thee, may be taught at their mother's knee to believe in thee and in the divine mission of thy Beloved Son. We thank thee, O our Father, that thou didst restore that grand and glorious principle of marriage for eternity, and didst bestow upon thy servant the power to seal on earth and have it recognized in the heavens. We acknowledge this privilege as one of thy most marvelous gifts to us. May all the youth of thy Church come to know of its beauty and of its eternal importance to them, and to take advantage of it when they marry. May they, our Father, on the other hand, realize fully that the glorious opportunity for eternal companionship of husband and wife, and the power of eternal increase, may be forfeited by them if they fail, through negligence or indifference, to conform to thy requirements, or if having taken advantage thereof, they may still, through improper conduct, lose their blessings. Wilt thou, O Father in heaven, remember the Relief Society throughout the length and the breadth of the Church. May those who engage therein, either as officers or teachers, be abundantly rewarded for their unselfish sacrifices, for the services they render, for their acts of mercy and kindness, and for their ministrations to the sick, the needy, and the unfortunate. We pray thee that in their homes and in their responsibilities they may enjoy the rich companionship of thy Holy Spirit. With deep gratitude in our hearts we thank thee that the nations have ceased their warfare and the destruction of human life. We thank thee, O God, for the choice land upon which we reside, and for the marvelous promises thou hast made concerning America, that it should be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under Heaven so long as the inhabitants of the land should worship the God of the land who is Jesus Christ.