Sports and Utah's Centennial Ab Jenkins Former Mayor of Salt Lake City and holder of more sports' records than any other sportsman. [Prepared at the request of the Church Beautification Committee. DURING Utah's Centennial celebration the much-anticipated postwar "Golden Era of Sports" should be at its height. Both amateur and professional athletics, games, and exhibitions, even now are headed for the biggest boom in history. There will surely be more sports and greater crowds with an all-time record for gate receipts. The impetus for this frenzy was provided by wartime games and recreational promotions.  Salt Lake Tribune Photograph, 1941 HENRY W. RICHARDS AND AB JENKINS IN A 1901 MODEL CAR Page 654 SPORTS AND UTAH'S CENTENNIAL 655  Photograph by Bill Shipler AB JENKINS IN THE "MORMON METEOR" AT THE UTAH SALT FLATS A lot of speeches were made and countless words written concerning the need and importance of sport while the great conflict was on, all of which was quite unnecessary. I have never believed that sport needed any defending. It is a big part of American life the American way. It can stand on its own. There are times when one can "protest too much." There are just three reasons why sport will go on from here to new standards of performance and patronage: 1 "The majority of the people want it. Last year, supposed to be a "flop" year, was one of the biggest in the realm of sports. 2 It is something needed in the way of physical fitness, where to attain any decisive result, it must be based largely upon the competitive side. 3 Sports provide a most useful vehicle for the raising of funds for charities. This was proved during the war. It could do a much bigger job in peacetime with the proper organization. One of the major promotions that was hit hardest during the war was automobile racing. This is one activity which is not only a sport, so far as public interest is concerned, but is of great importance to mechanical research. It is fortunate for our State and our people, that we have, right here, the world's greatest automobile racing course. MORE records have been set on Utah's Bonneville Salt Flats than any other place in the world where sport is projected. None of this activity was indulged in during the war for obvious reasons, but the Utah race course is certain to get a brisk going over from this time on. The developments and advancements of automobile and airplane construction and operation are to come in for still further tests and perhaps much that is valuable to the automobile industry will be revealed. It is reasonably certain that John Cobb and Sir Malcolm Campbell, the famous English racers, will come here again with new types of cars and fresh ideas on record breaking. Photograph courtesy A. Lee Christensen SKIING AT ECKER HILL, NEAR PARK CITY, UTAH It was my privilege to help promote their previous appearances here, and I can testify as to the great good they did for Utah and the Bonneville Salt Flats through the favorable impressions they received. I expect to set still more records with a 3400-horse-power car, which will be 1,000 hp. More than any automobile I ever drove. It will also be the lightest of my several racing automobiles. What is planned in automobile racing during the Centennial year. Is typical of what is scheduled in other sports. College football will go big league in Utah that year. It is planned to bring one of the major aggregations of the country, such as Notre Dame, Southern California, or Michigan, to play the University of Utah. Another nationally important eleven will be brought in for Utah State and another for Brigham Young University. The new American Basketball League, in which Salt Lake has taken a franchise through the sponsorship of a club by the Deseret News, plans for the national AAU tournament for the teams of that league SPORTS AND UTAH'S CENTENNIAL and the University of Utah to make a bid for the national collegiate championship. Salt Lake has already been granted the national clay courts tennis tournament for the Centennial, and the Professional Golfers' Association is considering a petition to bring the P. G. A., biggest event in golf, to one of the Salt Lake courses. 657 In baseball, swimming, wrestling, boxing, bicycle riding, rodeo and every game played in Utah, something extraordinary is being planned by the Utah Centennial Sports Committee. From January to December in 1947, Utah will be the sports capitol of the United States.  Photograph courtesy Lesley Goates WINTER SCENE AT "ROMANTIC ALTA." UTAH WILL BE THE SKIING CENTER OF THE WORLD IN 1947