VOL. 4.  		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1875. 		NO. 6.


﻿DEDICATED TO A FRIEND.

The very heavens beamed radiant with smiles,
	On that auspicious and eventful day,
When angels bore thee, free from sin and guile,
	To share with mortals life's uncertain way;
Plucked fresh from an immortal paradise,
	Transplanted in a new and uncongenial clime,
To fulfill laws, which Nature's works comprise;
	A purpose to achieve, co-incident with time.

Thou didst consent within thy Father's Royal Court,
	To take upon thyself this mortal form we wear,
And in His image here, through good or ill report
	Having kept thy first estate, fit and prepare,
For thy return unto the loved ones there,
	Who blessed, in mighty power, thy going forth,
Pronounced thee worthy eternal life to share,
	If thou with honor, fill thy mission on the earth.

The Fates, propitious at thy birth, gave thee a noble mind
	A soul of generous impulse, in itself innately pure;
A quick perception, a character refined,
	Firm in integrity and purpose to endure.
These qualities with knowledge will fill the measure
	Which thy Creator has ordained for thee,
Not left to rust as undeveloped treasures,
	But giv'n in trust to be redeemed by usury.

She who endowed with rarest gifts and powers,
	Bore thee in pain, and moulded first thy infant mind,
Transmitted unto thee a mother's priceless dower:
	Of truest sympathy and innocence combined,
And in maturer years fullest and best
	Of blessings given thee upon the earth,
Bestowed in fulness with divine behest,
	The Holy Priesthood Josoph Smith brought forth.
										EMILE.
	March 21st, 1874


For the EXPONENT.
		KIND WORDS.

	How many bitter tears have been shed,
how many hours of sadness have been
passed because of an unkind word, and
sometimes even a look; and at the same
time that word or look injures the giver
even more than it does the one who receives
it.  And again, how many hours of pleas-
ure we sometimes spend in thinking over a
kind and pleasant word.  And how many
sinking hearts have been made to hope
again by a gentle act or a few kind and lov-
ing words.  And it is just as easy to say kind
words as it is to sayunkind ones.
	The EXPONENT says kind words are the
bright flowers of earthly existence; they
are jewels beyond price.  Then let us school
ourselves to always use them. A kind
word is sometimes looked back upon with a
pleasant remembrance for a life time.
	We all know how much easier it is to as-
sociate a mean act with one who always
speaks crossly and unkindly, than it is to
believe evil of one who is always associated
in our minds with pleasant looks and kind
words.  And how much better we enjoy
ourselves in the company of one who al-
ways speaks pleasantly and kindly, than we
do in the company of one who always looks
cross and speaks snappishly and sneeringly.
	There is an old proverb which says, "a
happy heart makes a smiling visage;" but
how can we expect to gain a happy heart
except in contributing to the happiness of
others; for true happiness can never be
gained by merely gratifying our own selfish
desires; and how can we expect to bestow
happiness if we do not speak kindly.
	But we cannot expect always to look hap-
py, for sometimes our hearts are heavy with
sorrow, and then none may know except
those who have had the experience, how


much comfort and consolation a few kind
and gentle words can give.  Then, my sis-
ters, let us be as kind and affectionate to
one another as possible, for we do not know
how soon sorrow and trouble may come upon
us, and then is the time that we will need
true friends, and those who prove them-
selves our friends then are true indeed
for they are "friends in need."
	But there is one FRIEND who will never
prove false or unkind to us if we will obey
His commands and do His will.  And that
we each may strive so to do, that we may be
saved in His kingdom with the honor and 
glory  thereof, is the prayer of
		Your Sister and Friend,
				ALICE M. B. FLETCHER.


﻿For the EXPONENT.
		TIME IS PRECIOUS.

	Take care of the minutes, and the hours
will take care of themselves.  We should
endeavor to make the best use of our time:
Friends often meet, and spend an evening
or a few hours in social visit and then leave
without feeling in the least degree benefit-
ed.  Perchance we meet a friend whose
mind is stored with useful knowledge, a
few moments spent in conversation with
such a person refreshes the spirit, and gives
more satisfaction than days spent in idle
gossip so common in society.  How neces-
sary it is to improve the present moment;
in looking forward to future life recollect
we are not to encounter all its crosses at
once, every moment bears its own little
burden then flies, and is succeeded by an-
other, if one can be borne so can another,
the present moment is all we have to 
do with, the future is uncertain.  Re-
solve then, to do right. The common error
is to resolve to-morrow or next week, but
now this once we must go on the same as
ever; it is easy for the most ill-tempered to
resolve the next time they are provoked
they will will not let their metder overcome
them; but the victory would be to make the
effort at the present moment.  There is a 
transcendent power in example, we reform
others unconsciously when we walk upright-
ly.  A reform should take place, it is better
to strive and fail, than not to have a will to
strive at all.  There is no end to intelligence
that might be gained by study, by reading,
and by reflecting. This world is full of
pleasant and beautiful things; learn to
prize those priceless gems of intelligence.
Character is the eternal temple that each
one begins to rear; cultivate highly the raw
material furnished by the hearts own foun-
tain; nature in all her laws is just, then
cultivate into existence the best attributes
that God has sown in the earth of our na-
tures, which gives us independence, and not
reject the truthful monitor, the Holy Spirit;
and through obedience to every law which
God reveals, men become kings and priests,
and women queens and priestess. Study
self-improvement no matter how old we are
we can improve.  If we wish to become
noble women we must make ourselves such
by our own merits.  Sisters awake. be up and
doing, strive to live the life of saints and
the victory will be ours.
						M. J. C.
Bountiful Aug. 6th, 1875.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MR. GLADSTONE, ex. Premier of England
will publish his three essays, "The Vatican,"
"Vaticanism," and the "Pope's Speeches"
in one volume, entitled "Rome and the
Newest Fashions in Religion."
	A FEW DAYS ago, in London, a testimo-
nial was made to Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall,
who have been known to two generations of
English readers as contributers to literature.
The Earl of Shaftesbury, speaking for them,
referred to their writing as healthy and
sound in principle.  The testimonial begun
at the time of their golden wedding last
year, it consisted of a fund of fifteen hun-
dred pounds sterling, for their benefit, made
up by six hundred men and women in Eng-
land and America.
	ANDREW JOHNSON, seventeenth Presi-
dent of the United States, and the only ex-
President, died at the residence of his
daughter in Tennessee, July 31st, from an
apoplectic stroke.  He was a self-educated
man; married early in life, and was elected
to office when very young.  Alderman at 22
a member of Congress at 26, afterwards
Governor of Tennesee, then United States
Senator from that State.  In 1865 he was
elected Vice-President with Abraham Lin-
coln as President, and after the assassina-
tion of Lincoln, filled the highest position of
honor and trust in this country.
	MR. WADE, the British minister at Pekin,
gives the following testimony in regard to
the use of opium: "It is, to me, in vain to
think otherwise of the use of the drug in
China, than as of a habit many times more
pernicious, nationally speaking, than the
gin and whiskey drinking which we deplore
at home.  It takes possession more insidu-
ously, and keeps its hold to the full as tena-
ciously. I know no case of radical cure.  It
has insured, in every case within my know-
ledge, the steady descent, moral and physi-
cal, of the smoker; and it is so far a greater
mischief than drink that it does not, by ex-
ternal evidence of its effect, expose its vic-
tim to the loss of repute, which is the penal-
ty of habitual drunkenness.  Recently there
has been some considerable feeling in Eng-
land expressed against the opium trade, as
carried on now between British India and
China.


KNOW THYSELF—One bowing to me I'd
seen long ago, said I, Who art? he said, I
do not know; I said, I know thee, I, said
he, know you; but he who knows himself,
I never knew.


GEORGE Cury Egglestron argues that it
does not pay, as a business, to marry a rich
wife. His observation leads him to believe
that the expense of maintaining such a wife
is usually greater than the income which
her property can be made to yield.


JOSH Billings says: "If you are going to
give a man anything, give it to him cheer-
fully and quick, don't make him get down
on his knees in front of you and listen to
the ten commandments and then give him
five cents."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-op-
erative Retrenchment Association in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, July
31st, 1875, was presided over by Mrs. Mer-
cy R. Thompson, in the absence of the
President, Mrs. M. I. Horne, and her Coun-
selors. After the usual exercises and read-
ing of minutes from the different Wards,
Mrs. Mercy Thompson addressed the meet-
ing, expressing herself particularly grati-
fied with the Secretaries' reports from the
different Societies; said she knew the Lord
had blessed the efforts of those who had
tried to improve, and would continue to do
so, until they should become bright and
shining lights. Said that if she had been
aware that she was to talk she would have
chosen the subject of "Implicit Obedience;"
she then invited those who were present to
express their feelings, and referred to Mrs.
H. C. Young. Mrs. Jane F. Kinney of the
society of Friends requested permission to
speak; she was delighted with the minutes
of the young ladies' meetings, encouraged
them to go forward in their work; said she
traveled from East to West and North to
South, and met with all denominations.
She spoke feelingly of God and His good-
ness, and advised all to go to him for wis-
dom and when they were in trouble. Mrs.
Harriet C. Young, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze and
Mrs. E. S. Barney each spoke earnestly and
interestingly of the work of reformation and
the importance attached to the duties of
the religion professed by the Saints of lat-
ter days. Mrs. Young, in her remarks, al-
luded to idolatry as creeping in among this
people; referred to the world as devoted to
self, and that a similar spirit seemed mani-
fest here, said it was a source of regret.
Mrs. Barney, in her remarks, spoke of the
Home Industries, which were at present
progressing steadily.

	WILLARD CITY, Aug. 4th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our president I send you
the following items with regard to our wel-
fare in this place. The sisters with but few
exceptions, both old and young, are mem-
bers of the Relief Society; we meet once
in two weeks. The sisters express their
desires to obey whatever counsel may be
given them from time to time. Last spring
we had a braiding school here, that the
young sisters might learn braiding; and
now the young ladies of Willard are wear-
ing hats of their own manufacture.
	On Tuesday, July 27th, we were favored
with a visit from Sister E. R. Snow and
Sister Richards from Ogden. A meeting
was held at two o'clock, in the school house;
a great deal of good instruction was given.
Sister Snow in her remarks asked the
young sisters if they would like to be or-
ganized as a Retrenchment Society? All
in the house responded that they would. A
meeting was then appointed for half past
seven in the evening and a general invita-
tion was given to the brethren, both young
and old, and also to the sisters, to attend.
	The schoolhouse was filled, and after
singing and prayer Sister Snow proceeded
to organize the young ladies. Mrs. Susanna
Lechtenberg was sustained as president of
the Society, Miss Melinda Hubbard, Mrs.
Lucey Nebeker, Miss Mary B. Cook, Miss
Mary Ann Ward, Mrs. Jane Parsons and
Miss Ellen Owens, her Counsellors; Miss
Anna Brewerton, Secretary; Miss Ann
Maria Wood, Assistant Secretary. The
young sisters gave in their names as mem-
bers, when it was motioned that the society

[Column 2]
be known as the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association of Willard. The meeting
was addressed by Sisters Snow and Rich-
ards. Another meeting was held on Wed-
nesday at two o'clock. Sister Snow and
Sister Richards were present and in the
course of their remarks, the advantages of
home industry, manufacturing everything
that we can, and also sericulture, were re-
ferred to; truly we had a good time and
our hearts were made to rejoice for the good
counsel we received, and it will long be re-
membered by those who attended the meet-
ings. 	Yours with respect,
	MARY ANN HUBBARD, President.
	 HANNAH COOK, Secretary.

	From Gunnison, Spring City, Cedar Fort
and Wellsville.
	We have so many reports from different
settlements that we are obliged to condense
them, and will give an item of each in this
article. From Gunnison, Sanpete County,
the report was of a meeting where Sisters
Snow, Horne, Howard and Barney were
present. The instructions of the ladies were
most eminently calculated to awaken the
sisters and inspire them with renewed zeal
and energy. The letter was an excellent
one, written by Secretary Helena Madson.
From Spring city there was a report of the
Seventh Annual meeting of their society,
which was very favorable; also an account
of a surprise party given to their President,
Mrs. M. A. Hyde, which was an enjoyable
affair. Reported by P. E. Benson, Secreta-
ry. From Cedar Fort, by letter of the Sec-
retary, Melinda Cook, we learn that pros-
perity has attended their labors in an almost
wonderful manner, and the good work the
sisters are doing is worthy the highest com-
mendation. From Wellsville there is also
a report of an Annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society, and of the organization of a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Assocation.
	From all these the accounts are most grat-
ifying, showing that the labors of the sis-
ters are resulting in good to themselves and
all interested.

	FARMINGTON, DAVIS CO., Aug. 2nd,EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In looking over the Society reports in the
EXPONENT, I find that many of the Settle-
ments have been favored with a visit from
Sister E. R. Snow and others. We also had
the pleasure of listening to Sister Snow and
Sister Presinda Kimball, at a meeting in 
this place held May 19th.
	Their coming was highly appreciated, al-
though I have been negligent in sending in
the report. The instructions we received
were similar to those given in other places-
Their whole aim is to do good, and use their
influence to get the people more interested
in Home Manufacture.
	They wished the people to set out mul-
berry trees, and go ahead in the silk busi-
ness, which I think we are well calculated
to do in Farmington, as we have persons
who understand it thoroughly, one who can
prepare it for the loom, and others who can
weave it into cloth.
	We also have a Millinery started, and are
saving something by making men's hats,
both from straw and cloth.
	Our Seventh Annual Meeting was held
June 30th, 1875, Bishop John Hess and
Coun. Arthur Stayner being present. They
talked very encouragingly, and thought we
were doing well; felt to sustain us in their
prayers, and by their presence when conve-
nient.
	A few words before I close in regard to
the reformation. We had a two days meet-

[Column Three]
ing on the 17th, and 18th, of last month, in a
grove fixed for the purpose. Some of the
Twelve and Elders from Salt Lake City
were present and told to us in plain words
where we stood, and how far we were from
living our religion. They read over the
first fourteen rules of the United Order, and
requested all those who desired to live up
to them, to be baptized and commence
anew. After meeting the bishops and some
of the leading men of Davis County were
baptized; since that time there have been
three afternoons of baptizing in this town,
and we are not through yet; which shows
that the majority want to do right.
	And that God will give us His spirit,
and help us to keep the covenants we have
made, is the prayer of
				AURELIA S. ROGERS.

			EPHRAIM, July 26th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Minutes of a meeting held at Ephraim,
Sanpete Co., Friday, June 25th, 1875. Af-
ter the usual ceremonies of opening, Mrs.
S. N. Peterson introduced Sister E. R.
Snow from Salt Lake City. Sister Snow
said: I have long desired this opportunity
of seeing the sisters of Ephraim and talk-
ing to them. Sisters, I occupy an honora-
ble position, but the great responsibility
attending it prevents my feeling proud. If
we are true saints nothing but the true
Spirit of God will satisfy us; if not, the
spirit of the world might satisfy. When
this society was first organized by the Pro-phet Joseph Smith, in the City of Nauvoo,
it was then almost the test of fellowship; it
was the standard of character; the name of
every virtuous woman was expected to be
enrolled in the society. I have the minutes
of this First Meeting; It is a Treasure be-
yond Price. Brother John Taylor was
called to the chair. Br. Joseph and other
brethren often met with us. Br. Joseph
said he wished the sisters to take charge of
the poor, relieve their wants, comfort them
in sickness, visit the widow and the father-
less, attend to the morals of the sisters,
never indulging in profane or vulgar lan-
guage, that the sisters might become Sa-
viours on Mount Zion.
	The duty of a Secretary is to write the
history of the Society, writing nothing but
what is really necessary, getting the spirit
of the meeting, that it may be a faithful
record to those who come after us.
	Let the sisters be careful not to speak
against POLYGAMY; the kingdom of God
cannot be built up without it. Say
nothing against the UNITED ORDER, for we
shall not go back to Jackson County, neither
will Zion be redeemed, without it.
	We have heard much of the union and
the generosity of the sisters of Ephraim, of
their industry, but how much they have
done in saving souls we have not been in-
formed; for there is no record of the higher
duties. Do we realize our responsibilities?
And that we have as much to do with the
salvation of our souls as the brethren? They
can not save us, we must save ourselves.
Many sisters think there are no duties but
those of the household. But these duties
were all performed in Babylon. Why are
we called out of Babylon? The sisters in
Zion are required to form the characters of
the sons who are to be rulers and bishops in
the kingdom of God. Then, woman must
be educated, intelligent and holy. Can we
with the contracted ideas of the world,
have revelations to know that Jesus is the
Christ? That Joseph Smith was sent of
God? That Brigham Young is his success-
or? The fruits of the Spirit of God are


[Column 1]
joy, love, peace, longsuffering, patience,
meekness; faultfinding is not of God. We
must cultivate ourselves; trials are neces-
sary, we must not turn aside because of
sorrow and trial; set your mark high, do
not be weary in well doing. We must be as
gold refined, as wheat well bolted, try to
come out of the head of the bolt. There
is no wrong in being tempted. Jesus was
tempted, He overcame. There are records
kept of those who are tempted and over-
come the tempter, "They are mine, saith
the Lord God, in the day when I make up
my jewels."
	"But," a sister says, "I have been injured,
I must be revenged." Sister, be silent,
trust in God, He will repay. It is a trying
time, many of the saints are asleep, seeking
the things of the world. Mothers, make
Zion uppermost. Young ladies, we are glad
you are organized, come to meeting, learn
the laws of life and salvation, never sacri-
fice the Spirit of God to marry a Gentile.
Those young men who are hanging around
the saloons, in Salt Lake City and elsewhere,
defile their bodies with whiskey, tobacco
and foul language; they are no more fit to
be husbands and fathers than the heathen,
and many girls are just the same. I am
sorry to say they have a Gentile teacher in
Mount Pleasant. They say, O, but he is a
gentleman, he is winning the hearts of the
children; sisters, do your duty. I would
rather my children never learned a letter of
the alphabet, than have them taught by such
a teacher. Sisters, have you a saloon here?
If not, be thankful, pray your husbands to
be strong against the introduction of liquor
saloons. Make home happier, never leave
children to go to meeting, take them with
you, or leave them in good care, that you
can trust. There are many things that I
would like to speak of, but I say God bless
you; meet often, encourage HOME MANU-
FACTURE, it helps bring in the United Or-
der. I've been many years in plurality, I
would not dare to say anything against it.
Of course there are trials in it, mortals are
imperfect, they make mistakes, there is no
wrong in being mistaken. I am willing to
sacrifice my feelings for the good of others,
everything but my principles, I am willing
to lay at the feet of my Saviour, for the
higher life. Step forward and be prepared
when the angels come to talk with the sis-
ters, as they did with Sarah and Abraham.
God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Sister Horne said: I have been sick, but
I will occupy a few minutes. I am glad to
see the brethren meet with the sisters; it
is good. I wish to speak on the plurality
of wives; it is a great blessing to those who
do right. I could not have been here if it
were not for plurality. Cultivate the spirit
of peace. God commanded men and women
to go forth and replenish the earth. We
are called to bear the spirits of men. Girls,
keep the laws of life; be obedient to your
parents. The Relief Societies are endeav-
oring to establish home manufacture, to get
straw for hats and mulberry cuttings for
silk. Ask the brethren to assist in digging
and planting, but do all you can yourselves.
Sisters, meet often together. Many men
say, "what need for women to get together
and gossip about their neighbors." Breth-
ren, come and see and understand what
Relief Societies are for. Some men say,
"my wife has plenty to do at home;" can-
not men deny themselves sometimes and
give their wives a chance? The Lord has
given intelligence to both, they are equally
dependent on each other, the man at the
head, the woman as his counselor. Presi-
dent Young has got the machinery to make
silk; let us get the mulberries and raise the
[Column 2]
silk. We have heard that you make very
handsome straw trimmings in Ephraim.
God bless you. Amen.
	Sister Howard followed on the same sub-
jects, and spoke beautifully. Sister Barney
was also present, but did not address us.
	The sisters hope to have many such meet-
ings, and pray God to bless the sisters from
Salt Lake.
	On Sunday the 27th of June, the anni-
versary of the martyrdom of the Prophet
and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
Brothers John Taylor, Orson Hyde,
Brigham Young, jr., Lorenzo Snow, Bishop
Canute Peterson and others, were re-bap-
tized into the United Order.
		With respect,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Sec.
	LETTER FROM KANAB, July 16th,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sister of the United Order of Kanab
were organized March 27th, 1875. We do
not call the organization a Relief Society
there being one in the place previous to our
organization, We call ourselves THE SIS-
TERS OF THE UNITED ORDER OF KANAB.
The object is that we may assist in the
prosperity of the Order to a better advan-
tage than we could otherwise do, and help
build up Zion.
	The organization by unanimous vote was,
Mrs. Emily J. Lewis, President; Mrs. Har-
riet M. Brown, First Vice President; Mrs.
Harriet Bunting, Second Vice president;
Mrs. Rhoda B. Young, Treasurer; Mrs. Ly-
dia Young, Secretary;
	We desire to do all we can to help to sus-
tain ourselves. We meet once a week for
working, and once a month for a general
meeting, and a good spirit prevailing.
	July 8th, we held our monthly meeting;
there were present, Bishop L. D. Young of
Salt Lake City, Brother Joseph A. Young of
Richfield, and a number of other brethren.
Brother John R. Young explained the na-
ture and object of our organization. Bro-
ther Joseph A. Young said the spirit of
these meetings is from the right source and
they are calculated to be a blessing to the
sisters; spoke of the influence wielded by
mothers in families in teaching their chil-
dren correct principles while young. Said
the United Order will eventually draw in
and embrace everything pertaining to the
kingdom, and direct and control the affairs
of the church. Said it was our duty to do
good to all the needy, whether in the church
or out of it, nurse the sick and afflicted.
Said it was the poor not the wealthy that
needed temporal assistance.
	Brother L. D. Young spoke on the same
subjects, said mothers should instruct their
daughters in household and other duties
that they may be qualified for the responsi-
ble position of wives and mothers. One
thing in particular he mentioned was, that
we should teach our children not to speak
evil of any person, and set them the exam-
ple ourselves. Jesus said, "do good to all
men;" strive to draw all around us. He
said, "my idea is, sisters, do all the good
you can, and no evil." Spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children the principles
of faith as soon as they can understand, im-
press it on their minds, that they may re-
tain it when they grow older. Asked the
Lord to bless us in our endeavors to estab-
lish the United Order in this place.
	President E. J. Lewis said she had been
well pleased with the meeting, thanked our
brethren for their kindness in visiting us;
wished the sisters to treasure up the excel-
lent instructions they had heard and profit
thereby.
[Column 3]
	We feel that we have truly had a feast of
good things, and after the visit of these
brethren to go to work with renewed ener-
gy, and strive through perseverance to gain
the reward laid up in store for the faithful.
			LYDIA YOUNG, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPLINTERS.

			General.
	It is estimated the loss by strikes in Eng-
land this season is over $12,000,000......
There is to be a religious paper printed in
Egypt, in the Arabic language......A mon-
ument like Humbolt's in New York, is be-
ing erected in Magnolia Cemetry, Charles-
ton, D. C. to William Gilmore Sims the
distinguished Southern novelist.....A cir-
cus exhibiting in La Crosse, Wis., was
struck by a hurricane recently.  There was
terrible tumult and confusion and several
persons seriously injured......A cyclome
passed through Harveysburg, Indiana, on
the 24th of July, five women were killed
and much damage done to property.....A
slight earthquake was felt in Hartford,
Conn. on the 28th of July, and with greater
force in the western part of the State.
			Foreign.
......The British Syrian schools for girls
which were organized in 1850 have now 2,
000 pupils.......The Emperor Francis Joseph
has sent to the Austrian Consul-General at
Venice, the sum of $2,000 for the poor.......
Armies of rats have, for several years, des-
troyed the crops of the Younjoo Karens in
Burmah......The statue of Richard Baxter,
was uuvailed at Kidderminster, July 28th:
he was a zealous laborer in the cause of re-
ligion between the years 1541 and 1660 in
that town; and the author of "The Saints
Best."......An excursion is being organized
in Genoa, to visit the international exhibi-
tion next year......The American Palestine
Expedition left London, July 10th, for Liv-
erpool, expecting to embark for Egypt "en
route" for Beyroute; Col. Lane, Prof. Mer-
ritt and Mr. Grant were with the company
.....The British and Foreign Bible Society
last year received $100,310.
			Personal.
	Judge Fisher has tendered his resignation
as U. S. District Attorney for the district of
Columbia, and ex-Governor Mills of Mo. is
to fill the vacency......Miss Mary Starley, of
London, was the originator of the Floral
Mission by which the hospitals on both of
the Atlantic are adorned with flowers which
refresh and gladden the sick......The life of
Dean Swift is being prepared for publication
by Mr. John Forster.......General Garfield is
rapidly recovering his strength, and expects
to take part in the Ohio campaign......Isaac
M. Singer the inventor of the sewing ma-
chine, died in London, July 23rd, aged 64
......Garibalda recently paid a visit to Civita
Vecchia and was most enthusiastically
greeted....Rev, Celia Bualeigh, the well
known woman suffrage advocate and preach-
er, died at Syracuse, July 27th, aged 48


TO understand the world is wiser than to
condemn it. To study the world is better
than to shun it. To use the world is better
than to abuse it. To make the world better,
lovelier and happier is the noblest work of
man or woman.


THE opportunity of making happy is
more scarce than we imagine; the punish-
ment of missing it, never to meet with it
again; and the use we make of it leaves us
an eternal sentiment of satisfaction or re-
pentence.—Rousseau.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Established semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East street, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY. AUGUST 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		A WEEK OUT OF TOWN.
	With Londoners residing in Salt Lake City,
a feeling is said to exist as of continued rusti-
cating. Not so, however, with the home raised
American, whose early life has been princi-
pally spent in the ever multiplying pioneer
settlements of Utah. To such an individual,
Salt Lake City is a city in reality, however in-
ferior to the world's great metropolis. And af-
ter a year's quiet performance of daily duties
here, in the midst of Summer's long, hot, dus-
ty days the soul wearies and begins to languish
for a season of out-door life, for the pure at-
mosphere and perfect freedom which the city
knew in its younger days but has lost amid the
continuous bustle of a rapidly growing popula-
tion and increasing wealth.
	Hence, after due consideration, about three
weeks since, we concluded to accept an invita-
tion from hospitable friends, and spend a few
days with them in Grantsville—the little
western settlement where a dozen years ago
we had a happy home.
	Among the many great changes which have
transpired within the last decade, may be
counted the building of Utah's railways. It
doesn't seem so much of an undertaking now,
to go from this city to Grantsville as it used to,
to make the journey in the opposite direction,
when it would be jog, jog, jog, over a rough
road for nearly a whole day; for the longer and
rougher part of the way is rendered enjoyable
by a short two hour's ride on the U. W. R. R.
This little ride, upon the morning of which
we write—when starting for a week's out in
the country—was particularly pleasant, as we
were favored with the company of a young
lady whose remarkable love for travel renders
her a most agreeable traveling companion.
	Miss C. thought it would be delightful to go
to the Centennial, and see so much of the
world as will there be exhibited in so small a
compass. But it would be still more charming
to visit all the places which will be represented
there, and see the specialities of different coun-
tries in their native conditions. We agreed
with her.
	Certainly if in that quiet morning ride much
pleasure could be found, and some informa-
tion gained, to travel extensively must be ex-
ceedingly pleasing and instructive. But both
sides of the question were canvassed. Fatigue
and difficulties often to be encountered, were
reckoned upon as matters of course.
	As the steamer, Gen. Garfield, lay in our way,
to pass by without a recognition of its exist-
ence, would be incompatible. Of course we
would take a sail.
	There were hours to wait after the return
of the train from the Half-way House (we rode
over there and back to Clinton's) before the
[Column 2]
steamer would sail. Plenty of time for rest-
ing, looking about, eating dinner and taking a
bath. The latter proved a very delectable way
of passing off the time; and Mrs. G., a gener-
ous hearted, fun loving lady who was present
with some "cousins from the country" added
much to the attractiveness of the occasion by
her original merriment.
	We went on board early that we might have
the better opportunity of doing justice to the
little steamer by minute observation. It has
been newly and neatly painted and fitted up,
under the directions of its present owner, Mr.
J. W. Young, improvements for the assurance
of safety have been made. Captain Dorris is a
genial and pleasant seaman.
	Before the steamer sailed, a company of
friends who came from the city by the one
o'clock train, joined us. Mrs. G'.s sister and
sister-in-law, Mrs. W. and others with whom
it is ever a pleasure to meet. Miss D., who,
without seeming to know how, always mana-
ges to make herself agreeable, told us about a
day spent on the lake in the other little steam-
er, "a day of days, never to be forgotten."
Then we returned with her, in imagination,
from tracing the happy by-gone, to the reality
of the peaceful present.
	The lake was so calm and beautiful and the
breeze so cool and refreshing, as we glided far-
ther and farther from the land, it almost seemed
as though to remain away out upon the fair,
smooth bosom of the waters, until the heat
and dust of mid-summer should have past,
would be a grateful relief.
	Then the wonders arose, whether upon the
island towards which the course of the boat
was directed, the scorching rays of the July
sun beat down with as great violence as they did
upon the shore we had left. What sort of a
place the island was, and why "John W.," or
some other capitalist, did not erect a commodi-
ous house thereupon, opposite Dr. Clinton's, to
which pleasure seekers and invalids might re-
sort for a few days or weeks at a time.
	One circumstance kept our otherwise serene
feelings slightly disturbed. We had seen noth-
ing of Mrs. H., from Grantsville, who, accord-
ing to our calculations, was to have joined us
on the steamer, or before we went on. The ir-
regularity of the mails between Salt Lake and
Grantsville had already twice balked us in our
intentions. Had our last communication failed
to reach its proper place of destination, there
was no alternative but for us to return home
by the evening train.
	After a while, a new yet familiar and wel-
come countenance presented itself in that por-
tion of the boat where we were seated. Mrs.
H.'s daughter advanced and spoke to us. It was
all right then, the team had come. And upon
the return of the boat to the landing, we were
greeted by Mrs. H. herself.
	The rest of our journey for the day was per-
formed in the old fashioned horse-team style,
and we enjoyed it greatly.
	There was a meeting of the Relief Society in
Grantsville, on the 29th of July, the next day
after our arrival there. This afforded us the
privilege of greeting many friends, both old
and new, which otherwise we should not have
enjoyed. The humble, teachable spirit which
was manifested in the meeting, spoke well for
the officers and members of both the Relief So-
ciety and the Retrenchment Association. Their
great desire to improve could not have been
more clearly portrayed than by the eagerness
they evinced to receive instruction, even from
the simplest instrument the Lord might place
in their midst.  After the close of the meeting
many cordial invitations for entertainment
were extended, many which we regretted being
[Column 3]
unable to accept. We could not refuse to meet
and spend an afternoon with some of the offi-
cers of the Society at the house of one of the
counselors; to spend a day and night with their
President, and to pass the last night of our stay
in Grantsville under the roof of still another
dear, sisterly friend. Mrs. H. was now ready
to drive with us five miles from the settlement,
up the kanyon road to the "Ranch."
	Oh the Ranch! On the way little Danny B.,
also a guest of Mrs. H., opened with us a cate-
chetical conversation.
	"How old is your baby?"
	"Thirteen months. How old are you?"
	"Seven years. How long are you going to
stay here?"
	"A week if we don't get home-sick and go
home on Sunday. How long have you been
here?"
	"Only four weeks!"
	Only four weeks! A very short period in-
deed for a seven year old boy to be from under
his paternal roof! But he was with trusty
friends, and healthier there than in town.
	Well, the Ranch. "Liberty Hall," Mrs. H.
named her dwelling there, because at that place
all friends were to do as they pleased, say what
they liked and be perfectly independent and
at ease.
	Who does not know how quickly one day
follows another in such a place? Where you can
ride on horseback, milk cows, feed the dogs
and chickens, grabble potatoes, drink butter-
milk, sing and whistle as loud and long as you
have a mind to, laugh at the "merry Andrew,"
roll on the grass, rest body and soul, and in-
dulge in intelligent conversation for a relish
without a taint of fashionable gossip in it!
	The week expired quite soon enough, and
when the time came for us to return to the
city, we no longer wondered at Danny's em-
phatic "only four weeks!" or that he declined
an invitation to accompany us home.
	There, we have probably given as detailed
an account of our week out of town as our
readers will have patience to follow us in.


OUR TIME

	The day in which we live is continually quo-
ted by all classes and people, and it is some-
thing it would be well to realize as well as
quote; we belong to the time in which we live,
we are not actors in the past, our lives are in
the present and we may help to rear for our-
selves and others a character and name adapt-
ed to the age, the events, and the circumstan-
ces now transpiring. Take little heed who is
for or who against us, so we have conscience
for our pilot and the great Master-builder ap-
prove our work. But what wisdom, what faith,
what patience, what grace we need each day to
fill up the measure of duty and of work; on
each side of us are besetments to substitute
pleasure for duty, and there is an inclination
in our minds perhaps to comply with these
suggestions. We are like the mariner, trying
to steer carefully perhaps through an unknown
sea, one unexplored, and here and there the
snags, the quicksands, the dangerous places,
and the smooth shallow water even, may tempt
us upon dangerous ground. We may think, I
will venture, it may be safe, and even be-
fore we are aware we are stranded. Perplexi-
ties and troubles lie in the pathway of mortals.
	There are many helps to bear and lighten
difficulties, to guide and comfort, which are
entirely ignored by the generality of practical
people, on account of their seeming insignifi-
cance. "Kind words are jewels beyond price"
at home or abroad, cheerfulness is another
wel; let one go about with a downcast look


and he will neither satisfy himself, or benefit
others. If we desire to leave an impression of
ourselves upon the time in which we live, if
we would exert a lasting influence among our
associates, we cannot muse over our griefs, we
must be ever awake to the circumstances which
surround us, we must observe the people
among whom we live, if we would do them
good, if we would carry into their hearts and
souls a conviction of the great truths the Gos-
pel has revealed, if we would assist the rising
generation to shun those evils which have
wrought the most harm, those tendencies which
have developed into sin and crime and wicked-
ness. We cannot shut our eyes and live for
self, or idly pass away the precious moments
given us for labor and work. We must take the
current when it serves, or loose our ventures.
	Sisters awake from this stupor, this slothful-
ness, see what you can do by faith and prayer
and active work in the line of duty; bury not
in the earth the faculties assigned you to im-
prove upon, but trusting in the power of God
who has promised to sustain all those who
strive in humility and meekness to keep His
commandments. Come forward and do your
duty, heedless of criticism, for though you
may be scoffed at even, by those whose good
feelings you desire to keep, it is better to have
an approving conscience than the friendship of
any living mortal without it. 
	Do not content yourself with the idea that
your help is not necessary, that you have no
ability or talent that can be of any service in
rolling forth the kingdom of God. How many
women have thought they had no influence,
that their words and their ideas were not of
sufficient consequence to make or mar anoth-
er's happiness, or help to establish their princi-
ples, who have lived and died without benefit-
ing those with whom they were connected;
meanwhile have they left any impression?
Yes, they certainly have, that they had let the
golden opportunity pass, the precious time
go by, without appreciating their advantages,
or developing those inherent gems of
worth and richness which the God of heaven
had implanted within their souls to beautify
and elevate mortality. Sisters, let us who still
live, who have yet a day of grace granted un-
to us take warning by those, who have regretted
in their dying moments that they had not lived
better lives. Let us strive by faith, to do some
little good, to serve our fellow creatures, to help
all within our reach, embracing within our
grasp the living and the dead, for this is one
of the great features of OUR TIME that we can
minister to those who have not been favored of
God as we have been.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	"Leaves have their time to fall
	 And flowers to wither nt the north wind's breath,
	And stars to set—but all,
	 Thou hast, all seasons for thine own, O death."
	With deep and sincere regret we record the
sudden death of Elder Joseph A. Young, eld-
est son of President Brigham Young, and him-
self President of the United Order in Sevier
County. He has been taken away from our
midst in the glory of his manhood; he was a
man of brilliant talents of acute mental quick-
ness of perception of men and things, and ad-
mirably calculated to lead out in the position
he held. He was born in Kirtland, Geauga Co.
Ohio, October 14th, 1834. He was a person
whom to know intimately was to admire; his
genuineness of heart, his courteous and affable
manners, won for him numerous hosts of
friends. In conversation he was witty and
sparkling. The people over whom he presided
and with whom he familiarized himself, have


met with a severe loss, which it will be hard
to make up to them. A short time previous to
his death, he availed himself of the privilege
of re-baptism, and expressed himself on several
occasions as particularly grateful for the oppor-
tunity.
	We extend our truest sympathies to his fam-
ily in their bereavement, to his aged parents,
and his relatives, and may He who comforts the
mourner sustain them under this affliction,
knowing the promises of those who die in the
Lord, and believing that "though dead, he
liveth."


LETTER OF CONDOLENCE.

		MOUNT PLEASANT,
			Friday Noon, Aug 6th, 1875.
	To MRS. MARY A. YOUNG:
DEAR SISTER:
	The painful news has this morning reached
us of the decease of your excellent and much
esteemed husband President Joseph A. Young.
His loss will be keenly felt by many, but more
especially by those with whom he was more
intimately associated, and who had the bene-
fit of his wise and judicious counsel. I allude
to those over whom he had the honor to pre-
side in Sevier County. May the seed sown by
him bear precious fruit ,that will do honor to
his name throughout an endless eternity.
	His death has cast a gloom over every one
here and all deeply sympathize with you and
every member of his family, who have thus
suddenly been called upon to separate for a
season, from a kind husband and loving father.
	May the God of Abraham, Joseph Smith
and of your own Joseph, comfort and sustain
you under your most trying bereavement, that
the deep wound which has been thus inflicted
may only tend to bind you, his dear child-
ren, and every member of his family, nearer
and nearer to him; and be prepared for the
great events in the future which are looming
up on every side.
	Allow me to tender the heart-felt sympathies
of every daughter of Zion in this place, whose
aspirations will be offered up in your behalf
this night, that our Father in heaven may,
through His Spirit comfort and console you,
and be a tower of strength unto you in this the
hour of your great affliction.
	Please accept of my sympathy and sincere
sorrow for you in your affliction, and remem-
ber always that "we do not sorrow as those with-
out hope," and may you enjoy that peace
which the world can neither give nor take
away, is the fervent prayer of,
		   Your Sister in the Gospel,
			MARGARET F. C. MORRISON.


ELDER AMOS Fielding who died suddenly
Aug. 5th, was one of the first who embraced
the Gospel in Great Britain, and assisted in
chartering some of the first ships that brought
the saints to America. He remained ever
staunch and true to his integrity and the doc-
trines he had espoused, and was always an ad-
vocate for the "Word of Wisdom," having
himself kept it strictly for thirty-six years.
He died at the advanced age of 83, in the full
hope of a glorious resurrection.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Northern Railroad is progressing
rapidly; it is expected the road will be com-
pleted before cold weather.
	THE UTAH Educational Journal for August,

[Column 2]
is well filled with interesting matter upon the
subject which it aims to sustain and advance.
Such a magazine was much needed and is wor-
thy the patronage of any intelligent commu-
nity.
	ELDER E. W. Tullidge, of this city who is
at present in New York City, looking after the
publication of his book "The Founders of
Utah," is noticed in the New York papers as a
man of talent and ability, but as being under
the spiritual control of Joseph Smith.
	TWO-DAYS meeting was held in Brigham
City, Box Elder County, Saturday and Sunday
President D. H. Wells presiding. The preach-
ing was spirited and calculated to awaken a
good degree of interest in the hearts of the
people to reform and renew their covenaits be-
fore the Lord.
	THE THEATRE opened for a short season
Thursday, Aug. 12, under the charge and
supervision of Mr. E. B. Marden; who se-
cured the services of the charming little ac-
tress Miss Jennie Lee and also the talented
comedian Mr. J. P. Bernett. The plays have
been well chosen and the performances com-
mendable.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of a magnifi-
cent bouquet of flowers, including every va-
riety of shade and color of dahlias, as well as
other sweet-scented blossoms, and ferns. Many
thanks for the same, to Mrs. Emily Wagstaff,
of "Glendale Gardens." It is always cheer-
ing to look upon these delightful specimens of
Nature's handiwork, and when they are pleas-
ant reminders of kind friends, they have a
double significance.
	EX-BISHOP William Miller of Provo, died
suddenly at his residence Friday evening Aug.
7th; it is stated he had been working in the
harvest field a part of that day; he was first
Counselor to President A. O. Smoot. Also El-
der Alphonzo Greene died Aug. 7th, at hss resi-
dence at the half-way house, between Lehi and
American Fork; he was a man highly esteem-
ed by all who knew him for his honesty and
uprightness of character; he had long been a
member of the church and was devoted to his
religion; he was 65 years of age.
	THE NORMAL Institute which opened its
session Monday Aug. 2nd, kept up an increasing
interest during the complete term of two weeks.
Wednesday evening, Aug. 4. Prof. O. H. Riggs
delivered a lecture on education which was
highly approved by all present, as being prac-
tically adapted to the subject; and the hints to
teachers who desire to gain the good feelings
of their pupils, in order to awaken an interest
in their mental development, were worthy of
attention. Prof. Karl G. Maeser's lectures on
the Theory and Practice of Teaching have
been of the highest intellectual order, and
those who have listened from day to day can-
not fail to be impressed with the correctness of
his views upon this important subject. Prof.
Orson Pratt delivered a lecture on Wednesday
evening Aug. 11th, on the Centripetal and Cen-
trifugal Forces, which was particularly inter-
esting to those far advanced in the Science of
Philosophy. A part of the last week of the Insti-
tute, Roll Call was answered by sentiment, which
made a very pleasing variety in the routine of
the exercises. On Thursdsy the regular exer-
cises closed, and on Friday an excursion party
of the gentlemen and ladies of the Institute
with a large and select party of friends, went
to Lake Point by train, and took a ride on
the Gen. Garfield, encountered a severe gale,
but returned in safety at midnight. Saturday
the Territorial examination of teachers took
place, closing the entire session.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LETTERS FROM ABROAD.
		42, ISLINGTON, LIVERPOOL,
						June 24th, 1875.
MY DEAR AUNT,
		Mercy R. Thompson:
	Your very kind favor of May 12th, came
to hand June 5th when I was in Borne,
Switzerland, I have not had time to an-
swer since.
	I will try to visit some of our kindred in
this old country before I return home.
When the last event will be I donot know,
any more than I do the first; and I desire to
be found doing my duty the best I can in
my weakness at all times. My health con-
tinues good.
	I am no ways doubtful about the promise
received by Grandmother Fielding respect-
ing her children, being fulfilled, any more
than I am about the Savior's preaching the
gospel to the spirits of the rebellious ante-
diluvians, but I am fearful that some of
them who have had an opportunity of hear-
ing the truth and receiving it in the flesh,
but who have allowed their prejudices to
blind their minds, and harden their hearts
against it, will have to "pay the debt to the
uttermost farthing," in the "prison house,"
before they will realize the fulfillment of the
promise. Herein may you, and those who
are in the covenant, under Christ the Head,
become propitiated and saviors unto them.
I believe too it is the design of the mighty
Creator that not only this generation, to
whom the gospel has come, but the genera-
tions of the past and of the future, shall
come and drink of the fountain of life freely
if they will. But,
		"Know this that every soul is free,
		  To choose his life and what he'll be;
		  For this eternal truth is given,
		  That God will force no man to heaven."
	I believe if there had been ten righteous
souls in Sodom, God would have spared the 
city, but they were not to be found, and
sudden destruction came upon it. "Zion
might have been redeemed even now—
were it not for the transgressions of my peo-
ple." But they have not yet learned to be
obedient to the things required, "and we
must needs be chastened until we learn obe-
dience if by the things we suffer." But be-
fore the great day of the Lord shall come
Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness and the
Lamanites shall blossom as the rose, Zion
shall flourish upon the hills, and rejoice up-
on the mountains and shall be assembled to-
gether unto the place which I have appoint-
ed." All these are being fulfilled, and the
Saints have cause to rejoice, "but many
promises seemed to have failed because of
unbelief and unrighteousness, speaking of
the church as a whole and not individuals;"
but the purposes of God are ripening, the
promises await the preparation of the
church, which will be wrought by the 
righteousness of the people; when the un-
godly tremble, and fear shall surprise the
hypocrite in Zion. Then will you realize
the fulfillment of the promises of God
through the patriarchs and prophets, wheth-
er you tarry in the flesh of ascend to the
glorious life of the redeemed Spirit. The
redeemed are Christs, and He is God's, who
is not the God of the dead but of the living.
Redemption comes by repentance and bap-
tism into Christ—the birth of the water and 
the Spirit, such are the living, whether in
or out of the flesh, and they that shall come
forth in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion, on whom "the second death hath no
power, and they shall be Priests unto God,
and reign with him on the earth." But the
unredeemed are they that are dead whether
in or out of the flesh, and they will rise not
[Column 2]
at all until the thousand years are ended.
God is not their God. In this I do not
mean redemption from the fall of Adam,
for all—even the sons of perdition, both the
evil and the good are redeemed from the 
fall, but for the wicked there awaits a "sec-
ond death." I mean the perfect redemp-
tion through the perfect and complete gos-
pel. But this you know perfectly, as well
as I.
	If I had not so much writing to do, would
try to open a correspondence with some of
our folks, and I will try as it is, if possible.
	Yours of May 23rd with note to Aunt
Ann Matthews enclosed came to hand June
14th. I forwarded it to her to-day with
the accompanying note. I cannot but think
there is a little affection in her letter to
you. She certainly received your letter of
introduction which I brought and sent her
March 24, 1874, or it would have been re-
turned. Mails are very regular and certain
in this country the English post system be-
ing as near as perfect as possible. I sent it ad-
dressed as you will see with our published
address on the envelope. Messrs. Moody and
Sanky are a couple of shrewd Yankee ad-
venturers, and are supposed to be making
great fortunes out of their religious furors.
They are the same that visited S. L. City
three years ago, and after praising our Sab-
bath school system and expressing wonder-
ful delight at the courtesies extended to
them by our people, went away rolling up
their eyes in holy horror at the terrible
wickedness they found among the Mor-
mons. I have attended some of their
meetings and sent them the "Star." Their
doctrine is "Come to Jesus—only believe
and you will be saved." It was said by the
Liverpool papers that the first week of their
visit to Liverpool the criminal dockets, in
the police court were greatly in excess of
the average; and the insane asylums have
come in for their share of religious mani-
acs caused by the excitement; all of which
are facts—but to mention it to such as Aunt
Matthews, it would be considered persecu-
tion.  The people will not endure sound
doctrine, and are turned unto fables.
			Affectionately,
				Jos. F. Smith.
		12 ISLINGTON, LIVERPOOL,
			ENG., March, 9th, 1875.
MY DEAR ROBERT B.:
	Your kind letter and valentine came to
hand this morning. I was pleased indeed
to see that you could write so well. I hope
you will continue to improve until you can
write like your grandfather Thompson and
much better than I can.
	When I was a little boy as you are now,
and should have been going to school and
learning to read, write, cipher &c. I had to
travel on the plains and camp in the deserts,
with no home but a wagon or a tent, and no
school-teacher to instruct me. And when
at last with the saints I found a home in
Utah, I was obliged to herd cattle, to plough,
irrigate, harvest and go to the canyon to
get wood and help to build a home for my
mother (your grand aunt) and had no chance
to go to school until I was a big boy and
then I went three months and three weeks;
this was the extent of my schooling. When
I started on a mission in 1854 I was fifteen
years old, and had never written a letter
in my life, and did not know how to write
a dozen words; but I began to feel the need
of an education so I studied, practised, pray-
ed and tried to learn, and have been learn-
ing at a disadvantage ever since; now I can
just write so as to be understood.
	I want to see you and my little boys have
[cOLUMN 3]
better advantages than I had and then im-
prove your time. You are blessed and you
should be good. May God bless you.
			Affectionately,
					Joseph F. Smith.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I should like to copy after our old friend
Pipsey; and write a few things for your
pages that may be both useful and enter-
taining.
	In the first place I must tell you who Pip-
sey is; as all our readers do not take "Ar-
thur's Home Magazine."  She is a lady
I judge on the shady side of forty who
writes very entertaining pieces for it.  She
has a continual fund of information, com-
bined with sketches and items of interest.
	I am neither fat, fair nor forty, nor do I
profess to have Pipsey's talent, but I trust
that I see and know many things that
might prove interesting and beneficial.
	I am happy to see the ladies of Utah
come forward and prove to the world that
they possess both talent and integrity, that
they may no longer be judged with false-
hood and prejudice, but come forward to
make a record for themselves.
	Sister Snow, with some of her sister work-
ers in the good cause made us a visit a few
days ago.  They held a meeting and gave
us much good instruction.  She reproved
us too quite severely.  I suppose we need-
ed it.  Of course the coat did not  me,
(of course not,) She said we were asleep.
(Did she mean me I wonder)?  She said we
did not send our daughters to retrenchment
meeting. Now that was not  me for I have
none old enough to send.
	I must say a few words for the girls of
our town.  I believe a majority of them
were born on Saturdays, at least they fill the
adage to work hard for a living.  Many of
them work in the factory, some teach
school, and some go out to housework, while
others help mother at home.  I must say a
word too for mothers.  I believe many of
them would like to see their children pur-
sue a different course from what they do:
but there is so much young America about
them, and mothers are such old fashioned
people that they are not supposed to know
what is altogether proper now-a-days.
	NOW I wish all of our young people to
read the EXPONENT, so that my voice might
reach every one of them, and I would say
girls and boys too:  What are you doing?
Are you living so as to prove yourselves
sons and daughters in Zion?  Do you learn
things pertaining to the kingdom of God?
Or are your minds led away by the vain
things of the world.  Do you qualify your-
selves to become useful helpmeets to noble
men, or are your lives filled with fashion and
frivolity? If a time of trial should come
requiring sacrifices such as others before
you have made, how many would have for-
titude to make them?  How many would
stand strong in faith in Israel's God and
say: Lord we are ready, for we know that
thou wilt sustain us while this great wave
of affliction is passing by, or if perchance
our lives are spent in the endeavor, Thou
wilt bear us up to meet Thee in a home of
light and happiness above.
	The Third Ward Relief Society met at
Bro. Madsen's on June 24th, to organize a
branch Society on the Lake bottom.  Presi-
dent M. T. Smoot, R. A. Holden, and sister
Johnson and counselors met with us.
	Mrs. Anna Johnson was ordained Presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary Madsen and Mrs. I Hold-


anary counselors, under the supervision of
Mrs. M. J. Tanner, President of the Third
Ward. A general good feeling prevailed.
						   MARY.
	PROVO July 29th, 1875.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		THE KINDERGARTEN.

	It would be impossible to attempt to give
even the most essential outlines of the
great system of Kindergarten, in one or
two brief articles, so that a perfect under-
standing of the subject could be aimed at
by those who may not be somewhat ac-
quainted with this peculiar phase of educa-
tion.
	The word "Kindergarten" is German, and
means a garden of and for children, and
was given to this institution by its inven-
tor, Karl Frederick Froebel, an educator of
great renown in Germany. But it would
be wrong to suppose that no one before him
had ever thought of putting some of these
principles into practice which led Froebel to
the development of his beautiful system
which, since its beginning, has spread not
only throughout Europe, but has also made
its benign influence felt in quite a number
of the cities of the United States.
	Lycurgus, the great lawgiver of Sparta,
800 years before Jesus Christ, already intro-
duced the idea of training chileren from a
very early age by play to the earnest work
of life. The great philosopher Plato like-
wise commended playing as a very impor-
tant factor in the education of children.
The Roman Emperor Justinian, while for-
biding all games for money, replaced them
by the innocent games of motion. The
emperor Charlemagne introduced plays
among the Germans to civilize them, as
did Peter the Great among the Russians,
and the examples of numerous other rulers,
philosophers and statesmen might be ad-
duced to show how much the importance of
plays, or learning by means of plays, has
been appreciated in ancient as well as in
modern times; by various nations and un-
der almost all conceivable circumstances.
And if I might be permitted to make a
practical illustration in the case of our peo-
ple in these mountains, the rude habits
of the majority of our children,—at least in
the earlier times of their settlement here—
may, I think, be justly traced to their non-
acquaintance with the healthy spirit of
well-directed and judiciously selected plays,
the absence of which forced them to indul-
gence in recreations of their own unculti-
vated making.
	Some objections have been raised against
the establishment of Kindergartens, among
which the reproach that it supplanted natu-
ral development by artificial training, has
been foremost. But the very generality of
this crude assertion shows the weakness of
the position, inasmuch as the kindergarten
is just the opposite by artificial training,
aiming, as it does, solely to direct and
cultivate the senses and impulses of the
child and to avoid everything not in per-
fect harmony with the laws of nature,
beauty and morality, bodily and intellectual
health, and the limited sphere of compre-
hension by the child. And in respect to
this the testimony of the great German
poet, Goethe, is perhaps not amiss for repe-
tition here. Concerning the little cuttings
in paper which he used to indulge in when
a child, guided in those plays by his moth-
er—a woman of large intellect and rare re-
finement of mind—"Goethe" says: "This
childish occupation and entertainment has
cultivated and increased within me in var-
ious ways the gift and power of invention

[Column 2]
and representation, and developed my im-
agination and fancy in such a manner as it
could not have been done, perhaps, in any
other way so effectually and with so little
effort."
	There might yet, perhaps, be raised a
question as to the expediency of carrying
out this educational plan here in our moun-
tain home. To which I simply reply: Let
such a garden be once started by a judicious,
experienced lady teacher, and its success
here, as well as elsewhere, will be the best
demonstration of its feasibility.
	"Kindergarten culture," says Miss Pea-
body, in the preface to the "Moral Culture
of Infancy, "is the adult mind entering the
child's world and appreciating nature's in-
tention as displayed in every impulse of
spontaneous life, so directing it that the joy
of success may be ensured at every step,
and artistic things be actually produced,
which gives the self-reliance and conscious
intelligence that ought to discriminate hu-
man power from blind force."
	I will now give in outline the method of
conducting the kindergarten: Of course, a
primary consideration is the teacher: She
should be a lady of very gentle manners,
intellectual attainments and good taste, ac-
quainted with music and drawing, as well
as possessed of the various domestic ac-
complishments which we expect in a lady of
cultivated mind, so that she may be able to
meet out of a well-filled store house of ex-
perience, the multifarious and continually
changing demands which capricious and
eager childhood may claim of her, and
which the very nature of her calling neces-
sitates; since her mission is not so much
for mere class-training as in a common
school where the individuality of the child
becomes more or less subordinate to gener-
al rules, but rather the study of every sin-
gle little one destined to develop under her
care. She must therefore not only control
the workings of the little heart and brain and
fingers, but understand and enter into its
sphere of thought and comprehension, by
closest sympathy guiding it, placing her-
self, as it were, not above it but alongside of
it—which position must differ in many es-
sential respects from that of the ordinary
class-teacher.
					CAMILLA C. COBB.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE number of postal cards so'd last
year is 107,615,000.
	ON the British railways last year, there
were 211 passengers killed and 1,981 in-
jured.
	ONLY six out of 162 mills at Oldham, En-
gland, belonging to the Employers' Associ-
ation are working.
	IN fifty-nine years the American Bible
Society has issued 31,803,332 copies of the 
Bible.
	A THOUSAND flashes of lightning were
counted in an hour during the great storm
on the 7th of July at Geneva, Switzerland.
	NORTH America now has communication
with Europe through five cables.  The first
was laid in 1866; the second in 1869; the
third in 1873; the fourth in 1874; and the
last has just been completed.
	THE booksellers' exchange at New York
closed on the 24th, after a successful week.
Nearly 500 buyers attended, and it was the
largest gathering of the trade ever held in
this country.  The sales are estimated at
$400,000.


AMONG the remarkable productions of
California is the Hogan family of Mendoci-
no County. The father stands six feet two
inches in his stockings, one son six feet six
inches, a second six feet three and one-half
inches and a third six feet seven inches.
	DR. Hurst’s "Outline History of the
Church," gives the following population to
the creeds of the world: Christianity, 407,
000,000; Buddhism, 340,000,000; Moham-
medanism, 200,000,000; Brahmanism, 175,
000,000; Confucianism, 80,000,000; Judah-
ism, 7,000,000; all other religious belief,
174,000,000; of the Christian population of
the world, 137,007,449 are assigned to Pro-
testantism, 200,339,390 to Roman Catholi-
cism, and 75,390,940 to the Oriental church-
es. In the World comprising North and
South America, the Roman Catholics are in
the majority, having 50,931,983 of popula-
tion to 36,936,900 of Protestants.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	An Excellent Recipe for Washing.—8 lbs sal-
soda, 1 lb borax, 2 lbs rosin; 4 oz. salt of tartar,
3 oz. liquid ammonia. Dissolve the soda, borax
and rosin in 8 quarts of water, stand ten minutes,
then add the salt of tartar and liquid ammonia
with eight gallons of water; use one pint to a large
washing.
	Baked Tomatoes.—Select thoroughly ripened
fruit, cut them in halves: sprinkle over the cut
half with bread crumbs, sugar, salt, pepper and
butter. Place them in a baking pan, cut side up-
ward, and bake in an oven for two hours. Serve
on a platter garnished with curled parsley.
	Dessert.—Place as many crackers as may be
desired in saucers and cover with boiling water.
When all the water is absorbed, cover with thick
cream and sugar, then place a spoonful of jelly in
the centre of each and season with nutmegs. No
nicer dessert can be desired.
	Pickling Cucumbers.—We have found that as
good a way as any is to put them in salt as soon
as pickled and keep them covered with the same
till ready to use. Then freshen with frequent
changes of water, and finally scald in pure cider
vinegar, the stronger the better.
	To make an old silk look new take an old kid
glove and simmer it well in water, filling up if
necessary. For light silk a light glove, for dark
or black silk the color is immaterial. Sponge thesilk well with the liquid, which will remove all
creases and wrinkles, and iron on the wrong side
while damp; this will make it look fresh, smooth
and glossy.
	Good Pastry.—To seven tablespoonfuls of flour
add one heaping tablespoonful of lard, and one
teaspoonful of salt. Rub the flour and lard thor-
oughly together; add enough ice-cold water to
make a stiff paste; catch this lightly together with
a fork; flour the paste board well; take enough of
the paste for a pie, and roll it out quickly and gen-
tly. On the top crust drop thickly little pieces of
butter.
	How to make yeast powder; Three recipes.—
1. Take five ounces of tartaric acid, eight ounces of
bi-carbonate of soda, and sixteen ounces of potato
starch; dry them all separately in a cool oven, not
hot enough to brown them, and mix the whole by
rubbing through a sieve.
	2. Take six ounces of tartaric acid, nine ounces
of bi-carbonate of soda, and nine ounces of pow-
dered arrow root; dry them separately as before.
	3. Take sixteen ounces of corn flour and dry it
well; then mix with it eight ounces bi-carbonate
of soda, and five ounces of tartaric acid. Rice
flour can be substituted for the corn flour. All
baking powders should be kept in wide-mouthed
bottles well corked, so as to exclude all air and
damp.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GEM.

		By F. A. VON MOSCHZISKER, M. D.

The brightest gem in the woman's crown—what is it?
The richest dowry, and her sweetest charm?
The loadstone irresistible, which draws
All hearts, free, willing captives after her?
The enchanter's wand, that spell-binds to her feet,
Softened to lamb, the fiercest lion's soul!
It is not youth—the fickle butterfly;
It is not beauty—the ephemeral flower;
It is not wit—too oft a poisoned dart:
It is not riches—what are they to love?
It is not power, glory, noble birth,
Nor anything the world can give or take.  What is it
	then?
I know it well, but it is hard to say,
It is the childlike singleness of heart;
The angelic purity of a virgin soul;
The queen-like majesty of womanhood;
The trinity of virgin, child and matron.
It is a heart where joys of heaven dwell,
With truest sympathy of all earth's woes;
A soul itself as pure from sinful stain,
As full of pity for her sister's failings,
A grace as modest as the violet,
Yet, like the violet, shedding sweet perfume.
A mind alike to every lot resigned—
These, and withal a something undefined,
And undefinable in mortal speech;
A nameless grace that hovers round her being
And veils her, as the halo does the moon—
A gem the brightest in a woman's crown.
	—Family Journal.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Mary Mapes Dodge, the successful
and pleasing editor of the St. Nicholas
Magazine, is convalescing from a severe at-
tack of malarial fever and diptheretic sore
throat which seriously endangered her life.
She is recruiting in the Adirondacks.
	LADY Gordon, in her letters from Egypt,
gives a most curious illustration of their
native ideas of respectability. A boy speak-
ing of another said, "he is of respectable
family, for his mother wore a cow's tail
down to her heels, and beat him well when
he told lies, or stole eggs.
	MISS Jennie S. Clark, business manager
of the "Golden Dawn," San Francisco, has
been compelled to take a respite on account
of failing health, and will spend a few
weeks on the coast of Santa Barbara. Mrs.
U. H. Potter will transact business during
her absence.
	MISS Anna C. Brackett of New York,
read a paper on The Relations of Teachers
to the Medical Profession, before the Ameri-
can Institute of Instruction on the 9th inst.,
which has called forth considerable com-
ment and aroused a new interest upon the
subject.
	MISS Kate Hillard of Brooklyn has been
lecturing in Victoria Rooms London, and
creating an interest in her favor by her bril-
liancy, wit and ingenuity, and her ex-
cellent delivery. She intends spending part
of the summer in the Isle of Wight; in Oc-
tober she will probably return to London,
and afterwards resume her field of labor in
America.
	"MISS Ella Diety, formerly of New York,
has recently achieved a decided success on
the stage in London, and has distinguished
herself in a higher capacity—as an author
and composer of music." Recently Miss Emily
Faithful gave an entertainment to the In-
dustrial and Educational Bureau, in St.
George's Hall, Langham Place, London;
when there were several pieces introduced of
her composition. "Lessons in Harmony,"
adopted from the French, with songs, etc.
	MISS De Veges, a lady of aristocratic
blood and superior education in India, thor-
oughly versed in Spanish, French and En-
glish, and who is also very beautiful, as well


as clever, with a fortune at her own disposal
amounting to 100,000 rupees, offers herself
as a lottery prize for the sum of one lac and
10,000 rupees. The conditions are 22,000
at 5 rupees each; the lottery to be drawn
at Calcutta by herself; the winner to share
the money with her hand, or half it, with-
out, reserving for herself the same right to
refuse and divide the spoils. This is a
novel way of gaining a husband.


FLORAL HINTS.

Dear Exponent:
	My poor flowers have of late been the vic-
tims of too much of each wind and sun-
shine. Large plants like dahlias, unless
snugly secured to a stake, or what is better,
one with a few limbs cut slant like arrows,
for the umbrageous top of flowers to rest
against and be tied too. Dahlias don't like
much shade but will stand quite a fierce
sunshine. But the soil should be made rich
and the plants kept well hoed and tied up,
and the blossom-buds picked when they "go
out," and you will have fine flowers.
	Pelagoniums, Geraniums, Pansies, violets,
Phlox and many other such plants, would
like a cooling shade and moist atmosphere
now, until the heated term is past. Every
florist should study the wants and habits of
their plants, that they may know how to
treat them, to enjoy their greatest beauty
and usefulness. Some seem to delight in a
hot, dry atmosphere, as, the Datura, (a white
chalice-shaped flower often five or six
inches across) Cactus, Yucca, and even some
of the Solanums, Asters, Petimas, Zennias
and others, while many families, like vio-
lets and pansies, would perish. Now the
flowers should be watched daily, and such
ones noted as you wish to gather seeds from
and save the seeds when ripe. Shade your
chamomile and keep it always moist, for it
only puts out surface roots that quickly dry
up in scorching sun and the plant dies.
The Caladiums are a most delightful family
of plants, with leaves marked and spotted
in may colors, as handsome as so many
flowers.
	Yesterday was a gala time. Hundreds of
Sunday school scholars with banners, colors
and mottoes, more than two score, marched
to the Tabernacle under charge of their
teachers and superintendent, M. P. Romney,
when they sang several stirring songs.
Prest. Snow, S. Miles and Col. A. P. Hardy
were the speakers; the last named in short
told of the hardships of the first settlers
and compared the then, with the desert in
bloom as now, stopping all too soon. The
hall was tastefully filled up with flowers and
evergreens and a green arch adorned with
flowers was  over the speakers.
							FLORA.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	AT the parting of young ladies there is
much adieu about nothing.
	FASHIONABLE young ladies, like letters,
require stamps, or the males reject them.
	WHAT part of a fish is like the end of a
book? The fin-is.
	OHIO is one of the states in which a wo-
man may make a will.  But then women
in all states have a will of their own.
	THE best thing to be done when evil
comes upon us, is not lamentation, but ac-
tion; not to sit and suffer, but to rise and
seek the remedy.
	A COVINGTON man died and they put


him on ice, but he awoke in the night and
yelled out: "Why don't you put some more
wood in that stove!'—Ex.
	THE saddest thing in life is the spectacle
afforded by a young person who has burnt
all the hair off her forehead with a hot slate
pencil, and cannot afford, to buy a row of
curls.
	THE son of a clergyman was delivering a
college valedictory, when, in pulling out
his handkerchief, he pulled out a pack of
cards. "Holloa!" he exclaimed, "I've got
my father's coat on!"


CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copics, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	gravin of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of nonsubscribers and 
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.
		EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND 
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
			Feathers, Wall Paper,
				AND 
		BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

