VOL. 4. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1875.		     No. 4.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	As the time is drawing nearer for the com-
mencement of the Normal Institute in this
city, we thought perhaps it would not be amiss
to mention it again, although in our issue of
July 1st, we made a short notice of it, in con-
nection with some other items. We feel certain
that such training is essentially necessary, and
with the superior talent, ability and experience
of such teachers as the programme presents, it
cannot fail to be a school which will be a materi-
al benefit to the Territory. Arrangements have
been made to accommodate those who may at-
tend from the country, with rooms and board
at reduced prices, and also special railroad fare
at half the usual rates. Dr. John R. Park has
charge of conducting and superintending the
school; Prof. Karl G. Maeser's theory and prac-
tice of teaching; Prof. J. M. Coyner, Arithme-
tic; Reading, W. H. Rager; Geography, Miss
Josephine Cole; Grammer, Dr. J. R. Park;
Spelling, Miss Della Snow; Writing, Prof. F.
M. Bishop; Oral Grammer, Miss Della Snow;
Object Lessons, Miss Mary A. Stalfaugh; Civil
Government and Physiology, Prof. J. M. Coy-
ner; Elocution, Prof. J. L. Rawlins; Natural
History and Science, Prof. Karl G. Maeser;
Industrial Drawing, Miss Jennie Dennison.
This school will open Aug. 2nd. in the Uni-
versity Building and will continue two weeks.
It will be free to teachers, and those who in-
tend to qualify themselves for teaching, from
all parts of the Territory.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	"THE QUESTION of the day" is an old one
just now having been warmed over for the
ninety-eighth time.—"How did you spend
your Fourth?"
	A DISCIPLE of Darwin, writing from
New Westminster, describes that naturalist
as "a fine old man," and says "though there
may be some other law or cause than his
theory, why species change, yet so far he is 
quite right—we are, for sure, a developed
animal."
	THE AMERICAN Newspaper Directory of 
Rowell & Co. for 1875. records 8,348 papers
published in the United States and British
provinces, an increase of 1,910 since 1871,
and of 564 from last year.
	TERRIBLE RAILROAD accident at Far
Rockaway in the earlier part of this month,
several persons were killed, a much larger
number seriously injured; considerable
blame seems attached to the men in charge.
The trains were crowded with excursion
parties.
	AT NYAK, N. Y.,  there has been a most
destructive storm of rain, hail and wind,
accompanied by incessant thunder and light-
ning; two men were killed by lightning,
houses were unroofed, trees torn up and
carried some distance.  The damage was
immense.
	MRS. LAURA De Force Gordon, editor of
the Stockton Leader, and Mrs. Belle Lynch
of the Mendocino County Dispatch, were
lately in San Francisco at the State Demo-
cratic Convention.  The Golden Dawn pays

[Column 2]
them the flattering compliment of causing
many a delegate to change their vote
through their successful lobbyism.
	COMMENCEMENT SEASON, "literary anni
versaries," exhibitions of schools and
academies, class days, class re-unions, and
"Phi Beta orations," are crowding one after
the other or all together, at this season of
the year; and from every quarter we hear
the gratifying accounts of pleasant associa-
tions, favorable reports as to scholarship and
progression. Yale College, Harvard, Vas-
sar, Holyoke, Cornell; Greylock, and Cooper
Institute and many others too numerous to
mention here, have all recently celebrated
their commencement.  Certainly these sat-
isfactory reports must be particularly pleas-
ing to those who are interested in the cause
of education and advancement.
	MAIL ADVICES from South America bring
distressing accounts of the terrible earth-
quakes which have lately been visiting that
country. Several towns and cities have
been almost entirely destroyed.  It is said
that in thirty minutes the city of Cacuta
was laid in ruins, resulting in the death of
more than ten thousand people, in addition
to other thousands injured.  The cause is
unknown as well as the place of its com-
mencement.  Some attribute the cause to
the volcano of Sohatera; others are inclined
to the belief that a new volcano has broken
out in the hills of Giracha.  There have
been several severe shocks since, in differ-
ent places through the same part of the
country; and the greatest alarm prevails
among the surviving inhabitants; sickness
and starvation are also increasing.
	THE MILLENNIAL Star of June 21st, re-
cently received, contains a very interesting
account of the Swiss and German Confer-
ence, held at Berne, Switzerland, June 6th,
1875. Br. Joseph F. Smith, President of
the European Mission, was then in Swit-
zerland, and on that occasion addressed the
Conference, telling them that he regretted
not being able to speak in their own lan-
guage.  His sermon was an earnest and im-
pressive exhortation to both men and women
to live their religion, to become preachers
of the Gospel, by effectually honoring its
divine principles.  He also entreated them
to labor diligently and be "economical, wise
and prudent with their means," that they
might be able to gather to Zion, but not to
gather with a view to obtain riches, or to
benefit their temporal condition, but to
build up the kingdom of God.  There were
many other brethren there, representing
the different missions and conferences, who
spoke expressively and impressively con-
cerning the great work of the latter days.
The people seemed especially pleased and
gratified to have with them one of the
Twelve Apostles, and so many Eders from
Zion.
	IT IS said that 2,000 persons were drowned
at Toulouse, by the flood of the river Gar-
onnee, and that in consequence of the de-
struction of property by that flood, 100,000
persons will be dependent on charity for
months. The contributions for them have
already reached $200,000.  President Mac
Mahon headed the list.  The Pope sent
$4,000.


For the EXPONENT.
			YOU WRITERS.

	I do not know of what misdemeanor I
have been guilty that I should be so cruelly
victimized, but thus it is.  For the past
two or three weeks, everybody within
twenty miles around, who has had annoy-
ances of a certain kind to bear, has seemed
determined that I should share them,
whether my sweet temper and charity-lov-
ing spirit prompted me to offer sympathy or
not. Allusion is made to a class of writers
who do not succeed in getting their produc-
tions published in a manner satisfactory to
themselves. And to such I respectfully
submit the following—that is if it should
not find the same sad fate so many of my
friends' precious writings have, apparently,
met, to be consigned to the waste basket.
I do not propose to repeat here, the sor-
rowful, and in some instances disdainful
words to which I have listened; nor to pic-
ture the doleful or indignant countenances
which have been presented to me. It is
enough if I give my opinion on the subject,
and a few hints gratis, inasmuch as I have
been so often consulted.
	First of all then, be assured that it is
most absurd for any of us to take offence
because the judgment of another, particu-
larly an editor, should differ from our own
in regard to our  productions.
	Want of clearness in writing is a great
deficiency with many.  They write as they
speak without due consideration as to
whether they will be properly understood
or not.  As a consequence, the real beauty
and value of a composition is often hid
from all but the writer's own mind, simply
for want of clear and correct expression.
Even the talented and learned are frequently
guilty of writing thus obscurely, so that
they are only comprehended by the educat-
ed few.  While, I suppose, it must be to
the interest of journalistic editors to see that
only such things appear in their periodicals,
in a general way, as will be readily grasped
by the reading public, the semi-illiterate as
well as the more enlightened.
	Another grievous fault with many is, the
apparent idea of entirely exhausting an in-
teresting subject, saying all that is worth
saying about it, in one brief essay.  Could
this be done, the benefit of writing would
be obsolete in our day.  All would have
been said and printed in past ages, and
handed down to us.
	Upon the strength of this fact, realizing
that much more remains which might be
said with profit, but that I am only capable
of saying very little, I will cut this criti-
cism short, barely adding that as we do
nearly all other things, most of us write.
With too great haste and too little care;
thinking more of how much we can do,
than how well we can do it; feeling more
anxious to call our work completed, than to
pronounce it good.  I wish we could over-
come this infirmity as individuals, as a peo-
ple, a nation, a world.  And grow into the
more rational way of considering that the
more we  criticised by others; and the less
time we spend in criticising others, the
more we shall have for self criticism.
							MABEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			SOWING WILD OATS.

Young ladies, this scrap is for your brothers and beaux,)
	Yes, boys, you are  young, and you have a just right
	To live lives of freedom and ceaseless delight.
	No one should curtail your glad, happy ways,
	Nor darken with care-clouds your bright, sunny days;
	For laughter both health and ambition promotes,
	So have your own fun, boys, and sow your wild oats.

	But while you are passing thus gaily along,
	Dear boys, recollect you've no right to do wrong.
	Don't place yourselves subject to shame or distrust.
	By being imprudent, rash, vain or unjust;
	Don't swindle each other in exchange of coats—
	Don't swear, drink or gamble while sowing wild oats.

	Don't speak of "the governor!" "old man!!" and such;
	And your mother! you cannot respect her too much.
	Sin not 'gainst your elders by action or tongue—
	But think—if you live, you'll not always be young.
	Down the swift tide of time each unconsciously floats,
	So be wise, kind and gentle while sowing wild oats.

	Don't think that to work is degrading or low,
	If no wheat is planted there'll be none to grow;
	Don't officiously seek to be fed from the store
	Of the humble who toil, the industrious poor;
	Nor be guilty of venturing illegal votes,
	Be honest and pure though you're sowing wild oats.

	When some fair, young creature, as fancy may flit,
	Admires your style, or is charmed by your wit,
	Don't think that to please her, and merely for sport,
	You'll make some pretentions to love and to court:
	Don't woo to deceive her, with words, or with notes,
	And go back on the plea of your sowing wild oats.
	
	Seek fame as you will, with the mallet or pen,
	But lay your foundations for good, worthy men;
	And build there upon noble structures and fine,
	Walking straight in the way of the Master divine;
	Nor wish to extend or escape from the moats,
	He has placed for your safety in sowing wild oats.
										   LULA.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Associations held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, June
20th, 1875, was presided over by Counselor
Mrs. Zina D. Young, in absence of the Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne. In her opening re-
marks she alluded to the sisters who were
absent South, in Sanpete Co., and remarked
though they were away from the meeting
they would not forget it, but would be unit-
ed in spirit with those who were there,
She expressed herself particularly gratified
with the minutes which had been read
there on that occasion. She then mentioned
the subject of sericulture and said it was
then the proper time to save the mulberry
seed.
	Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff made some
most excellent and appropriate remarks.
Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. J. Howe, Mrs. M.
E. Watmough, Mrs. W. East, and Mrs.
Foss, all spoke impressively of the work
now in progress, and the great mission giv-
en to woman to assist in establishing the
Kingdom of God upon the earth.


[Column 1]
VIRGEN CITY, KANE COUNTY,
					June 21, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of the President of the Re-
lief Society in this place, I will send a few
lines to you for publication in your valuable
paper, which we peruse with pleasure.
We held our Annual Meeting on Monday,
the 31st of May. It is seven years since we
organized in the capacity of a Relief Socie-
ty, with no other object in view but to do
good to those around us, and we have con-
tiuned steadfast from the commencement.
We are a settlement here of about thirty
families and very little money; what we ac-
complish by our own labor, and what we
have to sell, brings us some little means to-
wards helping the work along. We try to
be saints, and to live our religion, realizing
[Column 2]
that the promise is only to the faithful,
knowing that those who endure to the end,
will be saved in the kingdom of our Heav-
enly Father.
	Our Annual Meeting was well attended at
the Hall. President Sister Parker, invited
her husband Bishop John Parker and Bro.
Jepson first Counselor to the Bishop to at-
tend the meeting; they thankfully accepted
the invitation. The meeting was at 2
o'clock agreeable to appointment; called to
order by the President of the Society.
Singing and prayer. Minutes of the last
meeting were then read. The visiting com-
mittee then gave in their report. Next
came a report respecting the condition of 
the Society. Sister Isabella Hilton, a teach-
er in the society died since our last meet-
ing; she was a worthy member and died full
in the faith, leaving a large circle of friends.
We miss her society as we do that of many
other faithful sisters. Sister Parker gave
some very good instruction. She has always
endeavored to impart to us counsel in meek-
ness and humility. Sister Jepson bore tes-
timony in the same spirit. Bishop Parker
spoke encouragingly to the society, wished
them to persevere in well doing and they
would gain an exaltation; felt to bless them
&c. Bro. Jepson sanctioned what the
Bishop said &c. Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Dismissed by Bishop Parker.
		Yours with respect,
			ELLEN PARKER President,
				E. D. GARDENER Secretary.
					FAIRFIELD July 1st, 1875.
EDITOT EXPONENT:
	By request of our President I send for
publication the following minutes of the
sixth meeting of the Young Ladies Re-
trenchment Association, held June 8th 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved.
	Brother Zebedee Coltrin, of Spanish
Fork, (who was present by request,) then ad-
dressed the sisters. Said he was always
pleased to meet with the saints, and espe-
cially with the younger brethren and sis-
ters, who had just set out to form them-
selves into societies, to pray, to talk with
each other on the principles of the Gospel,
and to be instructed in them. These were
the most important subjects on which we
could receive instruction, they concerned
alike our present life, and our condition
hereafter. Such societies were being form-
ed in almost every settlement where the
saints had gathered, and in some places the
brethren as well as the sisters had associa-
ted themselves for this purpose, to re-
form and quit their evil practices. Said if
the sisters would persevere in discouraging
the attentions of the young men who drank
and used tobacco, the latter finding exclu-
sion from their society a greater depriva-
tion than they could well bear, would natu-
rally turn over a new leaf, and act in such a
way to render themselves agreeable com
panions. He would rather follow his daugh-
ters to the grave than to see them associa-
ting with those who followed such evil
practices, and from such society he con-
stantly kept them. He spoke of the present
extravagant style of dress among the sis-
ters, said formerly a sister could be known
as far as she could be seen, but now he did
not dare to speak to one whom he had
kuown for years until she was close enough
for him to be sure he was addressing
the right person. He also cautioned the sisters
against tight lacing, and said when called
upon, as he frequently was, to admister
to young women he could hardly get faith
[Column 3]
enough to do as he was requested, they had
so injured themselves by improper and
foolish habits. As for liquor, though men
and women too, said it did them good, he
could not believe it. It gave them false
strength for the time, but when that had
passed off they felt worse than ever. He
exhorted them to perseverance, and to con-
tinue in good works that they might not
lose the reward that they desired to win.
	Brother Carson followed in a few remarks
of much the same nature; said that if the
sisters followed the good counsel which had
just been given them, they would eventu-
ally become the wives of good men, and
that they need not fear they would have to
remain single because they persevered in
such resolutions.
	After singing the meeting was dismissed
by Brother Carson. Adjourned for one
week.
		ADA A. D. DURANT. Secretary.
			PAYSON, June 19th, 1875.
	Report of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Society.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest.
Martha Simons introduced Sr. Zina D.
Young who then expressed her pleasure in
seeing so many young sisters present—spoke
of the many duties that devolved upon
them, and their mission here on earth; en-
treated of them not to associate with stran-
gers, but to set an example worthy of im-
itation, and to shun the company of those
who indulged in light frivolous talk or slang
phrases, said there was no time to waste,
that great importance was attached to the
subject of HOME INDUSTRY. Sr. Barney
followed endorsing all Sr. Young had said.
She deprecated in strong terms the reading
of light literature, and solicited subscribers
for the "Woman's Exponent" and "Juve-
nile Instructor."
	At the close of the meeting a carriage
was in waiting to convey the ladies to the
depot escorted by some of the brethren and
several of the sisters feeling to bless them
for their teachings.
					M. A. HARDY.
		PROVO CITY, June 17th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The ladies of the several Relief Societies
of our city, met in the Meeting House by
appointment, understanding that Sr. Zina
D. Young and other sisters from Salt Lake
City would be present to instruct them in
their duties as members of Relief Societies,
and especially to encourage them to engage
in the business of sericulture. A goodly
number of the sisters were present and they
were agreeably surprised to find that Sr.
E. R. Snow was in the stand, having come
especially to meet with the sisters of Provo
by the morning train. After singing and
prayer Sr. M. I. Smoot introduced Sr. E. R.
Snow, who expressed her joy in meeting
with them again and then proceeded to in-
struct them in their duties in general, as
mothers and daughters in Israel. Especially
enjoining upon mothers to instruct their
children in the principles of the Gospel;
but was afraid that in some cases, mothers
devoted too much time to the dressing of
the bodies of their daughters, to the neg-
lect of the instruction of their minds in
those principles which would cause them to
grow up as useful members of society; al-
luded to the superficial education of young
ladies, which only fitted them for society as
the world understand it—but women, mem-
bers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, should cultivate themselves
and children in those principles which
would make them fit society for the pure


[Column 1]
in heart—exhorted the sisters to encourage
and aid the organizations of Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Societies, and to
maintain a lively interest in such organiza-
tions by their presence and counsels—allud-
ed to the fact that many of the women of
Zion were astray with the idea that they
had no time to attend meetings, or to give
to the culture of their minds, but that their
whole being and time must be given to the
drudgery of life, preparing food &c. What
mattered if the dishes should be left un-
washed to give time for attendance at some
meeting, nothing would materially suffer,
but good would result; still the domestic
duties of women should not be neglected.
She also urged the necessity of the sisters
making exertions to start the manufacture
of straw materials, woolen goods including
hosiery for infants and children's wear, and
also the culture of silk, on which subject she
would give place to Sr. Zina D. Young who
then addressed the Sisters. Her remarks
were chiefly in relation to the establish-
ment of the Silk Culture, giving an outline
of the habits of the silk worm, showing
that this branch of industry would give la-
bor to many among us who to-day were be-
ing in part supported by charity. Our cli-
mate was especially adapted to the business,
and everything was favorable for profitable
results in the production of it; continued
her remarks to some length exhorting the
sisters to seek to aid their husbands all in
their power in the duties of this life, and
in teaching their children the principles of
the Gospel.
	Sister Barney, in a brief and pointed ad-
dress exhorted the sisters to be humble be-
fore God and to help bear off the burdens of
the work with the presidents of their socie-
ties, not clogs in the wheel, but working
saints, full of suggestions and ideas for the
advancement of the society and for the de-
velopment of the HOME INDUSTRIES of our 
Territory.
	Sr. Brown of Pleasant Grove, made some
remarks confirming those of the former
speakers; after which Sr. M. I. Smoot in be-
half of the ladies of Provo, expressed her
thanks to Sr. E. R. Snow and companions
for their visit. and hinted that their practi-
cal remarks would be made available by the
sisters of Provo, for the blessing of them-
selves and children. Dismissed with pray-
er by Prest. A. O. Smoot.
	All present seemed impressed with the
good spirit and the wise counsels of Sr. E. 
R. Snow and companions, retiring feeling
well repaid for the time they had spent.
							A. T.
	Minutes of a Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of Payson City June 18, 1875.
	There were present on the stand beside
local authorities, Sisters Zina D. Young and
Elvira Barney of Salt Lake City, and the
President and Counselors of the Spring-
ville Relief Society.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Mrs. B. J. Simons introduced Sr. Bar-
ney who proceeded to address the meeting.
She deprecated the idea of our sisters asso-
ciating with strangers who come into our
midst, and said many are by this means
led away, not only from home and friends
but from the fold of Christ and become
cast-aways. Mothers should look to this,
and carefully guard their daughters from
danger, exhorted the sisters to live their
religion and to be united with the priest-
hood. Introduced the subject of sericul-
ture and related what the sisters of Salt
Lake were trying to accomplish in this direc-
sion. Denounced novel reading as being
[Column 2]
in the highest degree pernicious and evil in
its tendency, exhorted all to patronize the
"EXPONENT" and "Instructor," said the sis-
ters should attend their society meeting, and
patronize the Sunday School.
	Sr. Zina D. Young said the mission before
the sisters now was HOME INDUSTRIES.
The authorities of the church were anx-
ious to see the people adopt measures to
sustain themselves, and they required the
sisters to lead out in every direction possi-
ble for the attainment of that end. They
can make their own hats, their childrens,
and husbands and therefore save that ex-
pense every year. Sericulture was an im-
portant item and should receive our most
earnest attention. We would find that this
was the easiest way possible for us to pro-
duce our clothing. We should set our mul-
berry trees in abundance and every family
go to making silk. God requires us to
adorn our bodies with the workmanship of
our own hands, and we should set about it
in earnest. The speaker alluded to "Plu-
ral Marriage;" said it was the only way in-
to the Celestial Kingdom. We may expect
to meet with trials by the way, these are
necessary for our purification and we must
learn to bear them patiently and never try
to slide from under them and throw them
aside. In choosing husbands, select men of
intelligence, men of faith, men of God; and
thus secure to yourselves partners that
will be worthy of you.
	President Mrs. B. J. Simons hoped the
sisters would treasure up what they had
heard and profit by it, she then read a 
piece of poetry entitled "A Welcome to the
Sisters from Salt Lake City."
	Bro. I. M. Coombs made a few remarks
by the way of encouragement to the sisters in
their labor of love.
	Counselor Mrs. Agnes Douglas addressed
the meeting for a few minutes encouraging
the sisters to persevere and be blessed.
	The meeting was a very pleasant one and
will long be remembered by those who at-
tended it.
	Very Respectfully your sister in the
Gospel.
			MARY ANN HARDY, Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	INVESTIGATIONS recently made give a
statement of the number of missionaries
and converts in Japan as follows: Greek
Church, 1 missionary, 3,000 converts; Ro-
man Catholic, 40 missionaries, 20,000 con-
verts; Protestants, 70 missionaries, 200,000
converts.
	COOPER'S Institute has held this season
its twenty-first anniversary of the laying of
the corner stone. Peter Cooper its founder,
whose age is eighty-six years was upon the
platform surrounded by admiring friends
and a crowd of pupils. The original cost of
the building when conveyed to the trus-
tees was $630,000. The aggregate receipts
to Jan. 1875 have  $572,291,27. The
average of daily attendance is 2,000 per-
sons. The newspapers on file (daily and
weekly) are over 300. The library compri-
ses 16,000 volumes. The Free Art School
for women has admitted during the last
year 200 pupils, 118 for drawing and 82 for
photography. During the last four months
1,724 have earned honors in this class. One
pupil from the drawing class is now earning
$150 per month. The Free School for
Wood Engraving with a class of 30 pupils,
have received $916,20 for work while yet in
school. The Free School of Telegraphy for
women numbers 47. Average wages earn-


ed by female operators, from $30 to $70 per
month. This excellent institution has a
corps of about 20 Professors and an expense
of $54,446,13 yearly. Organized classes
numbered the past term 2,878 pupils.


ESSAY ON PRAYER.

	What is prayer? What is the use of
praying? What good does it do us? These
are, no doubt, a few of the questions which
present themselves to the minds of my
young sisters, when they kneel down and
pray before going to bed. Now, in order to
do right and be happy, it is necessary that
we should pray, for our Father in heaven
likes to have us think of Him, and he is
very much pleased when He sees little girls
kneel down and ask Him to bless them; He
loves them and wants to bless them all the
time if they will only ask Him, but if they
don't pray He thinks they do not care any-
thing about Him, and he is grieved and
withholds His blessings from them. Prayer
serves to keep open the channel of commu-
nication between us and the heavens, there-
fore, my young sisters, let us never forget
our prayers, and we will find the more we
pray, the more we will love it; but if we
miss saying our prayers one day, the next
day we feel less inclined and it seems
harder for us to do so. We are surrounded
by evil spirits and influences, and it requires
an exertion on our part, at all times, to
overcome them, and being weak of our-
selves, we cannot do so without the help of
our Father in heaven. We should not only
pray in the morning and at night, but we
should pray in our hearts, all the day long,
that our hearts may always be turned to-
wards God. Let the praise and gratitude
of our hearts ascend unto the Lord by day
and by night, that the channel may be
kept open, and the road between us and our
heavenly Father may always be broken,
that we may have constant access unto Him,
and in doing this we shall ever feel a glad
and happy spirit, and we shall eventually
be numbered with the wise virgins spoken
of in the Bible.
		MRS. JANE E. VAN TASSELL,
				1st Ward, Salt Lake City.


GOLDEN WORDS.

	The habit of looking on the bright side is
invaluable. Men and women who are ever-
more reckoning up what they want, rather
than what they have—counting the diffi-
culties in the way, instead of contriving
means to overcome them—are almost cer-
tain to live on corn bread, fat pork and salt
fish, and sink to unmarked graves. The
world is sure to smile upon a man who
seems to be successful, but let him go about
with a crestfallen air, and the very dogs in
the street will set upon him. We must all
have losses. Late frosts will nip the frui
in the bud, banks will break, investments
will prove worthless, valuable horses will
die and china vases will break, but all these
calamities do not come together. The wise
course to pursue, when one plan fails, is to
form another; when one prop is knocked
from under us, to fill its place with a sub-
stitute, and evermore count what is left
rather than what is taken. When the final
reckoning is made, if it appears that we
have not lost the consciousness of our in-
ternal rectitude; if we have kept charity
toward all men; if by the various discipline
of life, we have been freed from follies and
confirmed in virtues, whatever we have lost,
the great balance sheet will be in our favor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
			GENERAL.
	The American Bible Society are to have
a Bible published with new plates, to be
called the "Centennial Bible"......The Amer-
ican Palestine Exposition Society sailed in
the Celtic on the 19th of June, on its second
expedition......It has been proposed to build
an iron bridge across the Hudson at Still-
water, the cost estimated at $12,000......San
Francisco estimates her pupulation 230,000
......The cost of the pedestal for the Webster
Statue presented by G. W. Burnham to
Central Park, will be $20,000, it will not be
ready for unveiling before July 1876......75,
000 Americans have sailed for Europe this
season......Post masters are to be held re-
sponsible for the losses of government prop-
erty in their hands......A terrific tornado
at Detroit June 27th, its path about 50 feet
wide; four persons were killed and many
seriously injured, loss of property $25,000
......The cost of bridges in the United States
since the war is said to be $150,000,000......
O'Connell is to have a statue in Central Park
......In Texas they are collecting money for
Jeff Davis to buy a homestead......Bogardus
of Illinois has beaten Rimmel, England's
champion, at a pigeon-shooting match at
Hendon......Col. Gildersleeve of the Amer-
ican rifle-team, won the cup in the rifle
match at Belfast......The headquarters of
the National Grange is removed to Louis-
ville Ken. from Washington D. C. ......Loss
by burning of mills in St. Louis, July 8th,
$50,000......The Hon. Geo. Opedyke has been
appointed president of the N.Y. Board of
Trade......The New York Sun boldly criti-
cises some of the leading railway mana-
gers.
			FOREIGN.
	A terrific rain and hail storm in Switzer-
land, Canton of Geneva and the French
Frontiers July 8th, several persons killed
and wounded, valuable property damaged
......The King of Burmah has refused to
permit the British troops passage through
his country. It is hoped he will yield to
the representations of the British Envoy
and prevent a collision......A painting of
Laocoon, according to Virgil's description,
has been discovered lately at Pompeii......
Japan has appointed commissioners to the
Philadelphia Centennial......It is reported
that the Marquis of Lorme, and his wife
(Princess Louise) intend making a tour
through the United States......An engine
for street cars whose motive power is atmos-
pheric air has been invented in Scotland by
Mr. Scott Moncrieff, who has obtained a pa-
tent for it......The Russian government 
spends annually $32,000 for carriages for
opera singers at St. Petersburg, to protect
their health and voices......The Chair of
Chemistry in Munich University, vacated
by the death of Baron Leibig has been filled
by Prof Baeger of Strassburg......The Lon-
don Art Union's income last year, was $94,
630......Thirty-six documents connected
with Michael Angelo have been discovered
at Rome, and are said to be of special in-
terest to the history of Art......In 1874,
France had in operation 15,000 miles of
railway......The Pope has just had comple-
ted a magnificent mosaic front to be affixed
to the famous church "St. Paul Outside The
Walls."......A masonic newspaper has been
started in Egypt in the Arabic language by
the masonic fraternity.
			PERSONAL.
	Rochfort has been obliged to suspend the
publication of his newspaper the "Lanterne"
at Geneva......Gerome's painting, the "Sabre
[Column 2]
Dance" in the Paris Salon has been sold
for $18,000......M. Godcharb recently de-
ceased left $120,000 the income of which is
to aid young Belgian sculptors......Mr. Ten-
nyson's new poem "Queen Mary" is about
to be issued......The Khedive of Egypt is
searching extensively for manuscript to form
a library at Cairo......The late Emperor Fer-
dinand of Austria, was buried July 6th,
with great pomp and ceremony; his remains
were deposited in the church of the Capu-
chins in the vault with Maximillian......
Garnier de Cassagnac has published a letter
in Paris in which he threatens to kick Gam-
betta......Don Carlos of Spain has been ar-
rested by the French authorities......The
heir apparent to the British throne intends
visiting India in October next......D. G.
Lobdell agent of the United States Treasury
Department died in Washington July 9th
......Gen. F. P. Blair died in St. Louis,
July 8th.
			LOCAL.
	Fireman's celebration at Ogden on the
Fourth of July, a grand success......Grand
Ball at Coalville, to celebrate the Fourth.....
Public demonstration of the memorable
Fourth in Alta......General holiday in Salt
Lake City July Fifth, excursions to all the
different places of attraction, and several
parties in the evening......The Martial band
serenaded the new Governor Thursday
night at the Walker House.........Robert T.
Burton, just returned from abroad, received
marked demonstrations of welcome from
his very numerous friends......The work of
excavating the cellar of the new Bank has
commenced......The extension of the Utah
Northern Railroad for twenty-five miles, is
expected to be completed this autumn......
Associate Justice Emerson has gone East on
a short visit to his friends......The Taberna-
cle choir went to Lake Side for an "out,"
Monday, July 12th.........Friday morning
there was a fire at the Railroad depot, which
did considerable harm in burning coal sheds,
coal, etc., and damaging cars......General
election, August 2nd, several officers to be
chosen......Mrs. J. B. Tyson, a lady who
was injured by the recent collision on the
Central Pacific, died in Ogden, July 6th;
her remains were sent to Minnesota.........
Preparations are being made for a children's
Jubilee in the New Tabernacle, July 24th....
The Wyoming company of emigrants ar-
rived here on Friday, July 9th......C. W.
Penrose, of the Ogden Junction, has re-
turned from his invigorating trip to Soda
Springs, warmly welcomed by his many
friends, and has resumed the editorial
pen in his own pleasing style.........	Mrs.
Clements and her little child, of Ogden,
are now afflicted with smallpox, taken from
her husband who has just recovered; strenu-
ous measures have been adopted to prevent
the disease from spreading.


LONGEVITY OF LITERARY WOMEN.

	It is really remarkable how many cases of long-
evity occur among women who make authorship
their occupation in life.  Miss Martineau, Miss
Bremer, Mrs. Howitt, Mrs. Strickland, and Mrs.
Browning—all either living or not very long de-
ceased—were born almost at the beginning of the 
century:  Madame de Stael lived to be fifty-one,
Mrs. Bradstreet fifty-nine, Ida Pleiffer sixty-one,
Miss Mitford sixty-nine, Lady Wortly Montague
seventy-two, Miss Edgeworth eighty-two, Miss
Opie eighty-four, Madame d'Arblay eighty-five,
Mrs. Sommerville ninety-one and Madame de
Genlis ninety-six.—"Hearth and Home."


TRUTH AND POPULARITY
	The truth is as unpopular as poverty. Hence,
to live pure lives, to be true men and women
is unpopular and out of fashion, something
that cannot be adopted save by a comparative
few.
	A first class now will secure more notoriety,
and consequently bring more money to the
author in a few months than "The Voice of
Warning." "The Governent of God," or any
such work which offers the pure, uncolored
truth, could gain in a century or in all time,
except old things should pass away and all
things become new. If if was advertised that
an elder of the chirch would deliver a discourse
upon the principle of divine, eternal truth, in
the Tabernacle, at the same hour a celebrated
comedy was to be played in the Theatre, thou-
samds of people would be in readiness to wit-
ness the first rise of the curtain at the latter
place, while at the former building a few hun-
dreds might congregate, the larger portion
coming in, at least after the opening hymn
had been sung. All this because the human
mind is prone to seek popularity, and there
is so wide a difference between it and the
truth.
	But the Saints of God, those who know or
have a desire to know the true docrine of
Christ, and live in accordance with its teach-
ings, must choose a higher standard by which
to be adjudged than the vain fickle test of
popularity.
	O Young ladies, ye who seek for everlasting
life, light and intelligence, do not turn from the
thought of joining the Retrenchment Associa-
tions because they are unpopular. Do not be
ashamed to acknowledge that you delight in
prayer because through prayer and faith comes
the sweet, sure testimony of the truth. Do not
shrink from entering into polygamy because it
is scoffed at and jeered by those who know not
the ways of the Lord and seek not after His
kingdom and righteousness. Study the works
of the church, though they contain the prin-
ciples of truth and are not popular with the
world. Learn the truth for yourselves, and
never be afraid to speak in its defense, though
to do so should have the effect to make you
look small in the eyes of some whose good
opinion you might be anxious to preserve.
Maintain true independence of character, feel
that you are worth more and far more hap-
py in homemade attire than those who seek
but vanity and folly are in the costliest robes
they can put on. Cultivate union and sisterly
love, thus gaining in strength and power; show
most respect to those who live nearest the
Lord, thus making the truth popular as well as
most precious among yourselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONSCIENCE AND DUTY.

	"Who does the best his circumstance allows,
	Does well, acts nobly; angels could do no more."

	Every person is more or less desirous of ob-
taining happiness; those whose lives are hard
and full of painful experiences in this world, look
forward to a future state of existence, with a
strong hope of realizing there, that which is
denied them here.
	But there can be no true or lasting happiness,
except through the fulfillment of duty; this is
the one thing always necessary, always practi-
cable, always certain; how essential then, to
know in what our duty lies, to be sure we are
in the right path.  How careful ought we to
be that our conscience does not mislead us, and
make us believe we are discharging our true
duties when it is only selfish gratification. It
is possible for us to become so blind that we
mistake inclination for duty.  I will not say
that there may not be duties which are un-
pleasant ones, which in themselves are trials,
but to shrink from them, or try to evade them,
will not bring us the more happiness, for con-
science will protest against this neglect, and its
stings will be more unendurable than the sac-
rifice which was necessary in the performance
of a disagreeable duty, and self-sacrifice in the
fulfillment of duty, carries with it its own rec-
ompense.
	The consciousness of having fulfilled duty
to the best of our ability, is a consolation even
in unhappiness; duty has its sorrows and its
joys.  It is not given us always to see the wis-
dom which demands our work must be done,
but frequently in some simple way, we are con-
vinced of the kindness and judgment exer-
cised in our behalf, in the thorniest places, the
most trying and difficult circumstances; and
we are thus encouraged to go on, bound to the
wheel of duty, and fill up the measure of our
work; which becomes through such means, a plea-
sure in itself, and in the future "a joy forever."
	Let us so regulate our lives as to have no
matter to reproach ourselves with, neither let
thoughtlessness or ambition lead us astray, but
guard ourselves sedulously against temptation;
and if there be whisperings which tell us, we
have a right to escape from duties which ex-
ceed our strength, we must not listen to such
evil suggestions, but trusting in God who has
promised to fit the back to the burden, go for-
ward nothing daunted, relying upon His help
whose work we are striving to do faithfully.
And in strict obedience to these duties (how-
ever trivial they may seem), which are required
of us from day to day, we shall more richly
deserve, and more fully merit the blessings of
heaven, than by launching forth upon the most
brilliant career independent of the ties, duties,
and obligations which are our legitimate heri-
tage.  There may be an expiation which may
perhaps atone for duties unfulfilled; but it can
never bring the same true happiness.  But who
would not rather make some sacrifice of feeling
for principle, than to eventually be called upon
to repay the uttermost farthing.  We are all so-
cial beings, and there are many duties we owe
to each other, which if neglected as we pass
along, and allowed to accumulate, may foot up
a terrible bill against us in time to come. We
are, none of us, independent of others, and we
should so live as to understand our true rela-
tions to our families, and friends, to society,
and above all the duty and allegiance we owe
to Him who is our Creator and the Father of
our spirits.  That such may be the happy lot
of those who have started out with renewed
covenants, to serve God and keep His com-
mandments, is our most earnest prayer.
	July 13th, 1875.


A GOLD MINE IN EMBRYO.

	Here are free to all the elements from which
can be obtained all that man need to enjoy.
But his existence depends upon the purity of
the air he breathes, his happiness depends up-
on the society he mingles in, and his society to
him is a nucleus in embryo, that will tell its
tale in after years. If we wish to enjoy a hap-
py result we must bear in mind that all de-
pends upon the right selections.
	Selection in reading, in thinking, in labor 
and of everything that will result in the great-
est good. And as causes produce effects, and
there can be no effect without a cause, it is
quite necessary that our care and attention
should be directed to the cause, while in em-
bryo, that it may be remedied prior to maturi-
ty. Well says one, the nucleus, if there is one
being formed, is so small, that I cannot see it.
	Well in this case there is greater safety in
counsel with those that have a clearer vision.
There must be a nucleus or an effect appar-
ently seen to produce action, which is based
upon two principles, independent or dependent
vision.  If independent we labor by the
promptings of our  intuition, but as there
is no reliable independency secured to man on
earth, we are virtually dependent for every
thing enjoyed, or hoped for, and we labor upon
the principle of faith; and we may call faith
the cause, and knowledge the effect.
	I will here cite my readers to one fact based
upon a mulberry seed, and another upon a silk
worm seed. By faith and works dependent up-
on the blessing of God, the mulberry seed be-
came a forest; and the silk worm seed in the
care of a delicate, faithful, persevering woman
who, prompted by faith, had wandered to this
forest, and with her labor and care, this little
seed became a million; and the million is now
winding its silk.
	For proof dear reader, go and see for yourself,
prior to the silk being exchanged into gold, at
President Young's Cocoonery.
							I'LL TRY.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Kellog English Opera Troupe who re-
cently appeared in our theatre, opened an en-
gagement in Maguire's new theatre in San
Francisco, July 5th. They seem to be as highly
appreciated there, according to newspaper re-
ports, as they were here and are playing the
same style of pieces.
	THE CHILDREN are rehearsing for the Twen-
ty-fourth of July Jubilee, under the direction
of Prof. C. J. Thomas, in the New Tabernacle,
Sunday mornings.  Preparations are rapidly
going forward for the decoration which has
been already commenced under the supervis-
ion of the former committee, and a grand enter-
tainment in music songs recitations etc., is
anticipated.
	AN EXCELLENT quality of glycerine soap,
called "Bath Sand Tablets" is manufactured
by H. H. Wadman & Co., of this city. The
ingredients used, as well as the preparing and
compounding of them, are entirely of home
production; which is one strong recommenda-
tion.  Another is, that young ladies who have
tried it, think they have never found anything
to equal its efficacy in removing chaps or rough-
ness from the face and hands.
	THE "ADVOCATE," and the "Educational
Journal" are new publications just started in
this city, of which we have received first is-
sues. The former is calculated to become "a
first class advertising medium" and will there-

[Column 2]
fore be gratuitous.  The latter is published as
its name indicates, in the interest of education.
There is plenty of work for each in its line,
and judging from the appearance of the cop-
ies before us, the labor of each will be ably
performed.
	WE RECEIVED a pleasant call Tuesday, July
13th, From Dr. Mary. J. Safford Blake, of
Boston, who is now on her way to the Pacific
coast.  This lady is an active worker in Wo-
man's Cause, is an earnest advocate of hygien-
ic dress reform, which she not only preaches,
but practices, and is interested also in suffrage
and all subjects which tend to the equality of
woman with man.
	She expressed herself pleased with our city
and its surroundings, and in particular with
the efforts being made for the development and
elevation of woman, but like all others of the
outside world was unable from her standpoint
to take the same views that we do of our pecu-
liar system of marriage; yet she was most char-
itable, believing us to be truly earnest and sin-
cere.  She is certainly a most intelligent and
attractive person, and we very truly regretted
her not being able to stay longer in our city.
	SEVERAL R. S. Reports are unavoidably
held over for want of space.  At the general
meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, Saturday,
July 10th, the time was chiefly occupied by
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselors E. R.
Snow and E. Howard and Mrs. E. S. Barney.
These sisters who lately visited the settlements
as far South as Sanpete, meeting with the Re-
lief Societies, and also attending meetings ap-
pointed by President Young and the brethren
who accompanied him, have returned home
filled with the testimony of the Holy Spirit,
the Power of God unto Salvation.  We
would rejoice in giving to those who were not
permitted to attend the meeting on Saturday,
the words of Living Truth as they flowed from
the lips of the sisters mentioned; but had we
time, space and ability to put them on paper,
they would thus seem too tame and weak,
wanting the influence, the potency, with
which they were uttered.  The day for the next
regular meeting being the "Twenty Fourth,"
meeting was adjourned for one week only, in-
stead of two.
	THE EDITORIAL Excursion party who are
making a tour across the continent, reached
Salt Lake City by the evening train Saturday
evening July 10th, and took rooms at the
"Townsend House."  They visited the Taber-
nacle in the morning when all the Sunday
Schools from the different wards were assem-
bled to practice for the coming Jubilee.  In the
afternoon they attended the regular service
there.  Elder Orson Pratt occupied the stand.
Monday morning they went by train up
American Fork Canyon, and left the city
Tuesday afternoon for the West.  The party
is composed mostly of editors correspon-
dents etc. from New York and the East-
ern States, and some from Ohio, Pennsylvania,
and Washington.  They expect to reach San
Francisco on the 12th of August.  No doubt
their short visit in Salt Lake will furnish them
some items of interest, as Mormons and Mor-
monism seem to be a popular and never fail-
ing theme, for journalists etc. at the present
time.  We hope they will speak of us, our sur-
roundings and our institutions truthfully, and
not according to the reprepresentations of an
outside element which delights in scandal,
misrepresentation and untruthfulness.


IN Berne, Switzerland, the national coun-
cil has voted 25,000 francs to defray the ex-
penses of the representations of the coun-
try's products at the centennial.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"MAYN'T I BE A BOY?"
"Mayn't I be a boy?" asked our Mary,
	With tears in her great eyes of blue;
"I'm only a wee little lassie—
	And there's NOTHING a WOMAN can do!
"It's so; I heard cousin John say so—
	He's home from the great college too;
And he said it just now in the parlor—
	There's nothing a woman can do!"
"See here, my wee lassie, my darling,"
	Said I, putting back her soft hair,
"I want you, my own little daughter,
	To smooth away all mother's care.
"Who is it when pa comes home weary,
	That runs for his slippers and gown?
What eyes does he watch for at morning,
	Looking out from their lashes of brown?
"Is there nought you can do, little maiden?
	What was it that pa said last night?
My own little sunbeam is coming;
	I know, for the room is so bright.'
"And there is a secret, my Mary,
	Perhaps you will learn it some day;
The hand that's most willing and loving
	Will do the most work on the way.
"The work that is sweetest and dearest,
	Which many are failing to do,
Of making folks happy around them,
	May be done by a lassie like you."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Chocolate Cake.—Whites of two eggs, choco-
late sufficient to thicken, (generally use three
small cakes German prepared chocolate,) sweeten
to taste. Spread in layers between cakes, same
as in jelly cake. Cocoanut cake may be made in
the same way, using grated cocoanut, instead of
chocolate.
	Pan Dowdy.—This is a Yankee dish, and was
esteemed in the early days of the Republic as a
palatable, as well as a substantial one: Make a
rich crust; line a deep earthen pot with it; now
slice some pie apples quite thin for the layer,
strew the apples with molasses and spice, and a
teaspoonful of milk; cover with a thin crust and
repeat the process. Cover the top with crust and
your pan dowdy is made. Bake in a slow oven.
	Apple Puffs.—Mix a quarter of a pound of
butter with a quart of sifted flour, two eggs and a
spoonful of salt; half a teaspoonful soda; dissolve
in a little cold water; moisten it with cold water so,
that you can just roll it out easily; roll as thin as
possible; cut into cakes; put three of them togeth-
er; sprinkle flour between each one; lay on the top
thin slices of tart apples; sprinkle sugar and a lit-
tle nutmeg over them; inclose the apple by doub-
ling the pastry over them; press the edges well to-
gether; fry in sufficient hot lard to cover them.
When of  light brown take up carefully.
	Chops—Broiled.—Trim and flatten the chops
with a chopper, sprinkle salt and pepper on both
sides, dip them in melted butter, place them on a
gridiron and set on a sharp fire, turn over two or
three times to broil properly, and when done serve
them around a dish, one lapping over the other,
etc., and serve with the gravy. It takes about
twelve minutes to cook with a good fire. Another
way: When trimmed and flattened, dip them in
beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs and broil
either as they are or enveloped in buttered paper
	Kate's Pudding.—This Kate is a contributor to
the "Country Gentlemen," we think, but are not sure
that we have the right credit: "Yolks of four
eggs: one teacup of sugar; one quart of sweet milk;
one pint of bread crumbs; butter the size of an
egg, half a cup of raisins, (in the summer season
cherries, strawberries etc., are just as good); bake
half an hour; take the whites of the eggs and
beat to a stiff froth; add half a cup of sugar, and
the juice of one lemon (or lemon essence); return
to the oven and bake slightly. To be eaten cold.
	Rye and Indian Loaf.—Take two quarts coarse


corn meal, wet it thoroughly with two quarts boil-
ing water, add two quarts rye meal; mix inti-
mately, make into a loaf three or four inches deep,
or, if convenient, put it into Boston brown bread
pans, place on top of the stove, where it is barely
hot enough to make it simmer, let it stand here un-
til it cracks well over the whole surface, say an
hour and a half or two hours. Then put into a
hot oven, bake two or three hours, according to
the size of the loaf, then cool the oven gradually,
or take the loaf out and steam it an hour or two.
—Rural N. Y.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The following recipes are in use at Dr. Trall's
eminent Hygienic table, at the Hygieian Home,
Florence Hights, N. J:
	Rye Bread.—Pour boiling water on rye meal
and mix into a stiff dough, make it into squares
or rolls and bake in a hot oven. When the be-
ginner can manipulate the dough readily, he may
succeed in making it light in loaves three inches in
diameter.
	Rye and Indian Fruit Loaf.—To five quarts of
fine corn meal add five pints rye meal, mix thor-
oughly, add water as hot as the hands will bear,
and make into a not very stiff dough, then add
three pints of stewed raisins and three pints of
washed currants, mix intimately, fill a deep pan
and smooth it over the surface, steam it six or
eight hours (all night if convenient), bake about
two hours longer, and serve warm or cold.
	The Herald of Health says: Friction is one of
the most valuable hygienic agents in restoring lost
health or maintaining good health. It is impor-
tant as part of the bath and when a bath cannot
be taken dry friction is servicable. If every per-
son on rising or retiring would spend ten minutes
in rubbing the body it would be beneficial in
equalizing the circulation, relieving internal con-
gestion, exercising the skin and invigorating
the whole body. Invalids who cannot rub them-
selves should employ healthy people to do it for
them. Gentle friction on the temples often cures
headache.
	Dr. Hall relates the case of a man who was
cured of his billiousness by going without his sup-
per and drinking freely of lemonade. Every
morning, says the doctor, this patient arose with a
wonderful sense of rest and refreshment, and feel-
ing as though the blood had been literally washed,
cleansed and cooled by the lemonade and fast.
His theory is that food can be used as a remedy
for many diseases successfully. As an example,
he cures spitting of blood by use of salt; epilepsy
by watermelon; kidney affection with celery; poi-
son, olive or sweet oil; erysiplaes, pounded cran-
berries applied to the parts affected; hydrophobia,
onions, etc. So the way to keep in good health is
really to know what to eat—not to know what
medicine to take.
	Lime Water for Burns.—The readiest and most
useful remedy for scalds and burns is an embroca-
tion of limewater and linseed oil. These simple
agents combined form a thick, cream-like substance,
which effectually excludes the air from the injured
parts, and allays the inflamation almost instantly.
A case is recorded where a child fell backward in-
to a bath-tub of boiling water, and was nearly
flayed from her neck to below her hips. Her
agonies were indescribable; but her clothing being
gently removed, and the lime and oil preparation
thickly spread over the injured surface, she was
sound asleep in five minutes. Subsequently the
parts were carefully washed with warm milk and
water three times a day, the oil dressing renewed,
and the little patient rapidly recovered. Though
all the scalded skin came off she did not have a
scar. This remedy leaves no hard coat to dry on
the sores, but softens the parts and aids nature to


repair the injury in the readiest and most expedi-
tious manner. This mixture may be procured in
the drug stores, but if not accessible, slake a
lump of quicklime in water, and as soon as the
water is clear mix it with the oil and shake it
well. If the case is urgent pour boiling water
over the lime, and it will become clear in five min-
utes. The preparation may be kept bottled in the
house, and it will be as good  six months old as
when first made.—R. N. Y.


For the EXPONENT.
	FRIENDSHIPS OF WOMEN.

		"Friendship is not a plant of hasty growth;
		Though planted in esteem's deep fixed soil;
		The gradual culture of kind intercourse,
		Must bring it to perfection."
	The sentiment embodied in this beautiful
extract from "Joanna Baillie," is one which
carries a conviction of its truth to every
strict observer of the laws of nature.
	Friendship cannot exist without a solid
basis, and time and cultivation alone can
rear such a one. To be sure, a casual and
timely kindness, administered, perhaps, in
an hour of extreme necessity, may bind us
unconsciously, and with gratitude, to one
whom we have never before met, yet it is
certainly an undeveloped friendship, com-
posed  more of gratitude than any other ele-
ment.
	Sympathy is one of the grand elements
of friendship, and helps to alleviate, soften
and cheer the adversities of our every day
life.  Our Savior possessed, in a most re-
markable degree, this genuine sympathy
for the poor, the needy, and the unfortu-
nate.  One of our favorite poets has said,
"Sympathy is the robe of friendship."
	Friendship among women is one of the
most prolific sources of happiness; there
are so many subjects of mutual interest con-
nected with the home relation, and the
peculiar position wives and mothers occupy,
that to feel perfect confidence in exchang-
ing ideas and sentiments, and in the expres-
sion of the finest feelings of the human
soul, there is a refreshing relief in being
able to confide in one another.
	The tastes of women being similar is an-
other adaptibility; there are so many mat-
ters separate and distinct from the ordinary
pursuits and occupations of men, which
pertain to a woman's active life, that will
admit of such a variety of interchange of
views that, however intimate their rela-
tions with each other, these seldom ever
lose their interest, or become stale or weari-
some.
	Men would fain have us believe, women
have too much envy and jealousy in their
composition, to be true enough to each
other to enjoy the sublimest order of friend-
ship; that rivalry is so strongly interwoven
with every fibre of their heart and affec-
tions, as to render them incapable of devot-
ed attachments to each other; but even ad-
mitting there are such natures, there are
others of a more exalted character, who are
too wholly destitute of selfishness them-
selves, to stoop to such debasing thoughts
and suspicions; who live under the influ-
ence of a higher element, and partake more
largely of the true spirit of benevolence
and Christian charity.  Are not such per-
sons capable of being devoted and ardent
admirers of all that is lovable and excellent
in each other? And when intimate asso-
ciation, together with surrounding influ-
ences which tend to heighten and strength-
en their confidence in each other blend and
cement their affections, they are assuredly
a comfort and a stay to each other, which
will bring additional happiness to invigorate


their higher natures. How often we hear
the expression, I have proved her. "Thou
art the friend to whom the shadows of long
years extend."
	Can there be anything purer than a friend-
ship between two or more women of supe-
rior natures, which time, pleasant associa-
tion and friendly intercourse has developed
and ripened? You may call it love, and to
a certain extent, perhaps, it is; but it is love
entirely free from passion, and I very much
prefer the term friendship—to me it is a
pleasant word, calling up a thousand happy
memories in the past, and suggesting many
pleasing ones in the future.  Such instances
are not rare, and where the Spirit of God
dwells in the hearts of those who are sus-
taining intimate family relations, the truest,
purest and most exalted friendship may
exist, such as time itself will only strength-
en, and will reach into eternity, purified,
refined and etherealized.
	It is my firm and full belief that the love
based upon true genuine friendship is the
most endurable, whether in men or women.
But in that as in every other sentiment or
principle of our lives there must be a cer-
tain amount of faith in the person, and good-
ness to inspire confidence; and the best
proof people can give of their sincerity
is that they trust without doubt or suspicion
in the integrity of those with whom they
associate.  We are all of the "earth earthy"
and consequently we crave more or less
companionship, but I do not know as that is
a result of our earthiness, perhaps it is a
misapplication of the term, but there is a
desire for congenial and friendly relations
which is a part of our nature; we find by
experience that all persons are not exactly
suited to each other, but that there are na-
tures which have a bond of sympathy un-
derlying them with which our own true in-
uitions mingle in sweet unison, and unity
brings happiness when it subsists between
women of kindred feeling, as well as when
it appears in the opposite sexes.
	July 14th, 1875.			EMILIE.
					E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Permit me to say that I have been a
member of our Society since the date of its
organization, and have perused with plea-
sure your invaluable paper, delighted more
particularly with the communications or
letters from the sisters from the various set-
tlements descriptive of their prosperity,
and have not unfrequently looked with in-
creasing anxiety to see a correspondence
written by some member of our Society,
dated at Centreville, but up to date have
looked in vain. Why is it? I must crave
to be indulged while I say that there are
those among us, members of the Society,
whose age, experience and intelligence,
qualify them for usefulness in almost any
intellectual line of life, and who, if they
only thought so, could indite matter that
would not fail to interest and enlighten the
reading fraternity. Our annual meeting
convened on Wednesday the 23rd of the
present month, and from Teachers' reports
on that occasion a general good feeling pre-
vails among the sisterhood with a desire to
be found active in every laudable under-
taking.		Yours most Devotedly,
				CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.
June 27th, 1875.
DEAR SISTERS:
	Perhaps at the present time, when so
much is said and written concerning the
[Column 2]
rights of woman, it may not be amiss to
present a few of my thoughts on the sub-
ject. While we fully appreciate the privi-
lege of attending the ballot box, and would
gladly avail ourselves of all the rights and
privileges the laws of our country will allow,
we should ever feel that we, as mothers and
daughters in Israel, have a greater right
and a nobler mission to perform. The Lord
in the beginning said, "She shall be a help-
meet for man." It is not, then, our pro-
vince to usurp the place, or do the work of
our husbands, but to assist them, by every
means in our power, and if they are called
upon to perform any duty in the kingdom
of God, throw no hindrance in their way.
	Should we sometimes find them depressed
in spirits, because of the trials they have to
encounter, let us speak comforting words,
and assist them by our faith and prayers;
thus shall we with them attain to a more
honorable position in the kingdom of God.
	When we look around upon the present
degenerate state of society, and see the
fearful amount of disunion and crime that
prevails on every hand, and the discord and
strife that is too often characteristic of the
domestic circle, parents unmindful of the
important relation in which they stand to
their children, and children forgetful of the
duty and allegiance they owe to their
parents, we are led to inquire the reason,
and compelled to acknowledge that much of
this evil arises from the ignorance of
parents in not understanding properly their
position. But we have been better taught
to know the purpose for which we were cre-
ated, and the duties that devolve upon us.
It is our province and right to lead and
train the infant mind properly, while our
children are yet young and tender, and
capable of receiving a lasting impression of
good, before the Destroyer has gained time
to exert his poisonous and too often fatal in-
fluence. Let us with patient perseverance,
both by precept and example, strive to in-
still into their minds the great principle of
righteousness and self-control, teaching our
daughters to excel in virtue, modesty, and
every grace conducive to the improvement
and happiness of society, and their own
exaltation in the sphere of heavenly intelli-
gence; cultivating "a meek and quiet spirit
which in the sight of God is of great
price." "For favour is deceitful, and beauty
is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord
she shall be praised."
	With our sons the task may often appear
more arduous; we may find it wisdom to
exercise a greater forbearance, and even
then sometimes feel almost discouraged at
their waywardness; but let us not think our
labor is in vain, for says the Scripture, "Cast
thy bread upon the waters and after many
days it shall be found again." Let us en-
deavor to impress upon their minds, that
they may  be the happy instruments of
disseminating the great truths of the Ever-
lasting Gospel; and it will be their honor-
able privilege to assist in establishing right-
teousness on the earth; and thus earn for
themselves, during their earthly probation,
"a celestial crown of glory that fadeth not
away." Let us teach them that before they
can aspire to this, they must first learn to
govern themselves, and be ever willing to
listen to the counsel of those in authority
over them; and thus gain the greatest of all
victories, a conquest over self.
	Rest assured, dear sisters, that if we do
this, we shall be exercising some of the no-
blest rights of woman. In this shall we
fulfill our destiny, and be taking the position
our Allwise Father designed that we should,
and it shall be said of us, as was said of one
[Column 3]
in days of old, "Her children arise up and
call her blessed, her husband also and he
praiseth her."
	Then let us neither faint nor be weary
but go to Him who is is the Fountain of
Light and the Giver of all good, and He will
give us strength according to our need.
These I conceive to be some of the greatest
rights of woman.
	Kamas.			PHEBE YOUNG.


VALEDICTORY,

COMPOSED AND READ AT THE CLOSE OF
MISS M. E. COOK'S GRADED SCHOOL:
TERM, JUNE 26TH, 1875, BY ONE
OF HER PUPILS.

	FELLOW PUPILS:—The time has at last
come when we must part; it may be that.
some of us bid each other adieu forever
We leave this house, these walls (that have
what we call imprisoned us,) but in after
years, shall we not recall the days spent
here with affectionate remembrance, and
in memory linger fondly over the happy
scenes replete with gaiety and childish
mirth, when life seemed all brightness, and
real sorrow was to us unknown?
	Will we not chide ourselves then for the
many unkind acts we have shown our
teachers and schoolfellows, and will not all
that has been pleasant in our associations
together, leave an impression of lasting in-
fluence upon our hearts, binding us to each
other, with many tender feelings, even
though separated by land or sea? In
looking back, will not these, our school-
days, be remembered as among the happiest
of our lives?
	I will leave it to you, who have assembled
here from day to day, to answer these ques-
tions, and if you do not realize them now,
perhaps you will in time to come.
	Let us each and every one thank our kind
teachers for the watchful care and attention
shown us by them from day to day, for the
knowledge they have sought to impart, and
for directing our minds in a proper channel
of thought, helping us to understand those
things most useful, and which will be of
the most real benefit to us in our practical
life.
	That our future lives may be properly di-
rected for our good and we may all live so as
to be able to meet again after we have fin-
ished our work here is my earnest prayer;
that God will bless us all with His Holy
Spirit, that we may endure patiently what-
ever trials life may bring, that when we
shall be called away, we may feel that our
work has been well and faithfully done.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	Mrs. M. E. PARKER, a distinguished advocate
of Suffrage and Temperance, from Dundee,
Scotland, recently visited America.  She came
as delegate to the Right Worthy Grand Lodge
of Good Templars, who held their session at
Bloomington, Iowa, this season.  She was ap-
pointed delegate from that Lodge, to the Na-
tional Temperance Convention, held soon after
in Chicago.  On her route homeward she visit-
ed the most noted places, taking in New York
and Boston, and everywhere earnestly and
spiritedly advocating the great cause of reform.
She sailed for Scotland the first week in the 
present month.
	MISS MARY Holman Ladd, of Boston,
who has just graduated from Cornell Uni-
versity, had assigned to her the distin-


guished honor of delivering the Commence-
ment Oration at that institution, being the
first young lady who has ever won that dis-
tinction.  Her oration was entitled "The 
Iphigenia of Euripides and Goethe," and
was purely classical in style.  While upon
the commencement stage she was repeatedly
applauded, and showered with bouquets,
proving how truly her efforts were appre-
ciated by the audience.  She intends study-
ing ore year more in Boston, for the de-
gree of A. M. at Cornell.
	MRS. DR. Ryder, a pupil of Mrs. Lozier,
is becoming very popular as a lecturer. She
is now lecturing in New England and pre-
viously made a tour of Central New York.
	Miss Alice Bradford is another Boston
girl who has graduated at Cornell this year,
from the Scientific Department.  She mer-
ited some distinction as an essayist in the
senior class, ranking one of the best among
six; and she has been accorded the limited
privilege of contending for the Woodford
prize of $100, for oratory.
	MRS. BURTON, wife of Capt. Burton the
British Consul at Damascus, has prepared
for publication a work, giving sketches of
the kind of life English women may lead in
the East, and of the customs and manner
of living, of the inhabitants.  The book is
soon to be published, and will be entitled,
"The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine and the 
Holy Land."
	DR. LAURA B. Chase is lecturing in and
about New York.  She is a woman possess-
ing great moral courage, and speaks with
great force and earnestness to both sexes.
She is even courageous enough to give pri-
vate lectures to men, on their follies, sins
and crimes.  Her listeners, and even clergy-
man who have heard her, commend her in
high terms of praise, for her words of cau-
tion and wisdom.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.

	A GOOD MAXIM.—It is more moral to be-
lieve ourselves to be bad, than to imagine
ourselves to be good.
	THE golden beams of truth and the silver
cords of love, twisted together, will draw
men on with a sweet violence, whether they
will or not.
	HUMAN affairs are not so happily arrang-
ed that the best things please the most
men. It is a proof of a bad cause when it
is applauded by the most.
	AN eager pursuit of fortune is inconsist-
ent with severe devotion to truth. The
heart must become tranquil before the
thought can become searching.
	THE roots of morals and of religion are
ever intertwined, and they draw their
strength from the same soil, are fed from
heaven with the same rains. and grow per-
petually toward the self-same light.
	NATURE is sent to teach us by her autum-
nal parables; and every fading leaf on every
tree, with its bud of future growth hid be-
hind it, becomes a solemn text, warning us
to "secure while the leaf is yet green the
germ that shall live when the frosts of death
have destroyed both fruit and flower."—
Maximillian.
	IT is worthier to strive and fail, than not
to have either capacity or will to strive at
all. In the conflicts of duty, there are re-
serves of power on the side of right, which
are at the disposal of one who wrestles and
overcomes. Pain may be blessed to us in
the larger and more generous sympathy


which it creates within us; and renuncia-
tion which is willingly adopted, adds to
character a crowning grace.
	THE love that survives the tomb is the
noblest attribute of the soul. If it has
woes, it has likewise its delights; and when
the overwhelming burst of grief is lulled
into the gentle tear of recollection, then
the sudden anguish and convulsive agony
over the present ruins of all we most loved
are softened away into pensive meditation
of all that it was in the days of its lovelines.
Who would root such a sorrow from the
heart? Though it may sometimes throw a
passing cloud over the bright hour of gai-
ety, or spread a deeper sadness over the
hour of gloom, yet who would exchange it
for the song of pleasure or the burst of rev-
elry. No; there is a voice from the tomb
sweeter than song: there is a remembrance
of the dead to which we turn even from the
charm of the living.


PURE GIRLS AND IMPURE BOYS.

	Girls, in treating dissipated young men as
their equals, do a wrong they can scarcely
realize. Such men should be made to feel
that until they walk with correctness and
honor in the paths of right, good people
stand aloof from them. Girls who respect
themselves will not be seen with such men,
and will decline to receive them on the fa-
miliar footing of friendship. It is a mis-
taken kindness to poultice when caustic is
needed, and I  inclined to think that a
little sharp decision on the part of the girls
of to-day would go far to correct the gener-
al looseness of morality among young men.
—Woman's Journal.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	BITS of frontier life—Scalps.
	THE war of races—races for office.
	THE largest room in the world is the
room for improvement.
	What word is always pronounced wrong,
even by the best of scholars?—Wrong.
	THE article most commonly sold at fancy
fairs is the visitor.
	WHY is coal the most contradictory arti-
cle known to commerce? Because, when
purchased it goes to the cellar,
	THERE is a time for all things. The time
to leave, is when a young lady asks you
how the walking is.
	WHY should the last boy born to a family
be named Doxology?  Because he is the
last of the hims.
	"TWO soles that beat as one," remarked
the boy to his mother, as she was dealing
with him for his sins with both slippers at
once.
	CHARLES Lamb, when speaking of one of
his rides on horseback, remarked that "all
at once his horse stopped, but he kept right
on."
	WHEN a woman stands at the hymeneal
alter with her intended, you may know she
is about to draw her beau into a knot.
	A COUNTRY girl wants to know where
the laugh comes in about spelling matches.
She knows of but one way.
	THE most bashful girl we ever heard of
was the young lady who blushed when she
was asked if she had not been courting
sleep.


"YOU'RE a fraud,"  is a favorite expres-
sion with some young ladies. Well, nine
cases out of ten they're correct, and if
they look in the glass they'll see another.
	It is as dangerous to inform a man of his
faults without giving offence, as it is to tel
him of his good qualities without flatter-
ing him.
	CAN you inform me," said a student to a
book-seller, "whether I can find anywhere
the biography of Pollock?" "Yes I dare
say you will find it in the "Course of Time."
	SOME ingenious observer has discovered
that there is a remarkable resemblance be-
tween a baby and wheat, since it is cradled,
then thrashed, and finally becomes the
flower of the family.


EVERY DESCRIPTION.
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND 
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, 
		Feathers, Wall Paper, 
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.
			CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year wth a copy, to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	- 	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving I2 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of Presidcnt Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4 -	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
 	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers. 
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should scnd us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

