VOL. 4		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1875.			No. 7.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		THREE SABBATH MORNINGS.

Upon the new born earth the glorious sun
Of the first Sabbath rose. Around, above, beneath
Was one sweet scene of beauty, peace and joy;
All animated life, the beasts and birds, the trees
And flowers, were joined in one accord, to sing
Their Maker's praise on this the first sweet day of rest,
			Adam and Eve, whose hearts o'erflowed
With love and happiness, and praises to their
Father and their God, came forth to view
The glorious work completed. Hand in hand
They wandered 'mid the pure and holy scenes of
Edens heavenly bowers.
			But vain, all vain the effort
Of the pen to paint the picture, the mind which soars
Beyond the power of languag to portray its visions,
Fails to realize the glories of that Sabbath morn.
And now, how oft, with aching hearts in bitter
Anguish, do we ask the question—
Why could not this pure state of being last forever?
But no, it could not thus remain and God's great
Plan of being per ected, so Adam fell that
Man might be: might know both good and
Evil, might choose and win eternal life.
How often do we hear the thoughtless jest,
The harsh and cruel judgement passed
Upon the Parents of our mortal lives,
Where naught but love and gratitude should be
For those who knowing, nobly paid the price.
			Thus sin and death with their long train
Of misery crept in—all know what followed
How the earth was made to groan beneath the
Weight of crime and woe it bore, and how the
Gates of heaven were opened, and how the waters in
	mighty
Floods descended and earth received her baptism,
And her children a watery grave.
			How the one man and his family faithful to
Their God, dwelt safely in their little ark upon the
Bosom of the waters.
		Again the morning dawns upon the Sabbath day.
But oh! how changed from the first of the creation,
What must have been the feelings of Noah and his
Family as they gazed upon the ruin and desolation
Spread out on every hand?
Did their hearts not mourn for friends and kindred
Lost, ties and associations sundered, or did the
Visions of their mind expand, so they beheld the glory,
The wisdom and the love of God even in that; and
Feelings of mortality were hushed, and praise and
Prayer to the great King arose.
		Upon the cloud the covenant token between
God and man was placed, the Rainbow which in
Its radiant beauty still o'erhangs our earth,
Methinks I see them on that hushed and solemn Sabbath
Morn, kneeling around the altar which their hands
Had reared, in prayer to God, while sweet incense
From the sacrifice arose.
The sacrifice which was a type of Him whose life
Was to redeem the world from Adam's fall.

Time sped on, another people made their homes above
The graves of those who had been swept away.
For a time they dwelt in righteousness:
But Satan's hosts again gained power on earth,
And when he came, He whose coming had o'ershadowed
Earth even from the beginning came to His own, came
To redeem and lead them back to God, they knew Him not,
		He the meek and lowly Jesus went forth among
Them, healing the sick, speaking words of comfort to the
Sorrowful, and teaching pure principles of righteousness
And truth, yet in the hardness of their hearts did
They revile and persecute Him, even spit upon Him.
He would have blessed them as no other one could bless.

By and bye the cry went forth to crucify Him—
Crucify the Son of God.
		Is there a pain that's deeper, keener, deadlier,
Than all other woe that mortal be ings feel,
It is to have one we have known and called by
Friendship's sacred [--] betray our trust:
By such a one was Christ betrayed and with a kiss,
Which should be brought by loves [--] holy token
		They nailed Him to the cross alone, forsaken,
In that bitter hour by all, and for a moment even by His
		God.
Yet deep and clear His dying words came forth,
"Forgive them Father for they know not what they do,"

[Column 2]
	The sun in shame and sorrow hid his face,
And darkness deep and terrible spread o'er the earth,
Fearfully the lightning gleamed, the thunder's dreadful
Voice was heard, and Earth was shaken to
Her centre, then horror struck they gazed and
Knew what they had done.
Then when that fearful scene was o'er they who
Had loved Him well, bore Him away and with
Bitter tears and lamentations laid Him in the
Sepulcher.
		When the third morning dawned.
And the Sun arose his beams were faint as though
He thought earth needed not his light
For Christ the Son of God, the Savior of the
World had risen from the dead.
									Hope.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		AN ESSAY ON PRAYER.

	What is prayer?—Most of us can answer
that question, it is the means ordained by
our Father in heaven whereby we can ask
for and receive blessings, to acknowledge
our faults and obtain forgiveness, to goto
Him when in trouble and get our wounded
spirits healed. Prayer is the greatest con-
solation the people of God have, for true it
is we are a tried people, and have great
things to contend with, it is therefore nec-
essary we should pray often that the good
spirit may reign predominant. We have
two spirits hovering around us, the good
and evil, each trying to obtain possession of
our minds, when the good spirit takes the
lead, why then the evil one has to leave, for
both cannot work together in unison. We
should endeavor therefore to always keep
the Spirit of God within us, and allow our-
selves to be led and guided by its dictates;
if we do not the consequence is it will not
remain, for the Lord says "My Spirit cannot
dwell in tabernacles that are unclean or im-
pure." Therefore my sisters it is necessary
we should guard our every thought, deed
and action, strive to do right as far as we
can, and pray for strength to resist evil; if
we do this, we need not fear but what the
Holy Spirit will be a frequent visitor; it
will prove the best company we can desire,
it will store our minds with good and use-
ful knowledge, which if put in practice will
bring forth fruit that will prove satisfactory
to ourselves and those whom we associate
with. Then let us not feel ashamed to ac-
knowledge to our brethren and sisters and
the world even that we have frequent com-
munications with our Heavenly Father but
feel proud that we have the privelege of so
doing.
	I will relate a circumstance that occurred
to me in connection with prayer about two
weeks ago, I started from home with the
intention of attending retrenchment meet-
ing in this Ward; on leaving the house a re-
mark was made to me which hurt my feel-
ings; I walked on a short distance, a spirit
that is not of God took possession of me,
and whispered do not go to meeting, and
in my weakness I gave way to its influence
and turned back. Did I feel happy and
contented? No, indeed. I felt wretched,
my conscience smote me the moment I en-
tered the house, I endeavored to drive
away that feeling of remorse and sought
amusement in music, but it had no charm
as at other times; after a while I went to
my room and asked God to forgive me and
take away the evil spirit that had prompted
me to do wrong. Did the Lord answer my

[Column 2]
prayer? Yes, immediately, I felt better be-
fore arising from my knees and resolved
in my own mind never again to give way to
the promptings of the evil one. I mention
this my sisters, as a testimony that the
Lord is ever ready and willing to forgive
and bless us if we will only humble our-
selves sufficiently to obtain forgiveness.
In speaking of prayer, it is necessary we
should exercise faith, for without it praying
would not avail us much, when we ask for
a blessing we must have faith that we will
get it; and sometimes we ask for things and
may probably exercise faith and do not get
what we ask for, we feel hurt and think the
Lord would not hear us. It is not so, they
are withheld by reason that the Lord con-
siders it not good for us to have them.
Then let us not feel discouraged or cast
down when our prayers are not answered,
but always bear in mind whatever happens
it is all for the best, for God's thoughts are
not as man's thoughts, nor His ways as
man's ways. My sisters ever strive for the
Holy Spirit that you may continue to be
humble and prayerful is my earnest desire
in the name of Jesus. Amen.
			  MISS LAURA CUSHING.
	Aug. 2nd, 1875.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THERE IS talk of a woman's paper being
started at Larrmie, Wy. That is right, la-
dies, step forward and persevere in every
good work.
	GEN. SHERIDAN, who lately visited this
city arrived in San Francisco on the
23rd of Aug., where he was received with
great demonstrations of military honor, the
streets being crowded with people anxious
to witness the reception.
	THE AMERICAN rifle team that visited
Europe recently, arrived safely in New
York city on the 21st of August.  They have
been feted and feasted everywhere abroad.
They have gained considerable notoriety
away, and return home to find their friends
ready to welcome them with loud cheers and
deomonstations of honor.
	KING KALUKA held a meeting at his
palace in Honolulu recently, to urge upon
his people and particularly all about his pal-
ace, to reform in the use of liquors.  He had
seen the evil influences resulting from the
use of ardent spirits, and hoped, by begin-
ning in his own palace to protest against it;
the good influence would spread throughout
the land.  He did not wish to command
any, but desired to see this evil checked;
a pledge was prepared and all were invited
to sign it.
	GEORGE W. WILLIS, a son of the poet N.
P. Willis, was recently married to Miss Em-
ma Miles, whose father, Mr. William H.
Miles, is a well known resident of this city.
The ceremony took place in Brooklyn, N. Y.
and was pronounced by its reverend pastor
Henry Ward Beecher.  It was noticed that
the bride was required to give her promise
to "love and honer" but the "obey" was
omitted. Beecher is said to make this 
omission always in performing the marriage
ceremony.  He says he knows the women
would not keep that promise if they should 
make it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Associations,
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Aug. 14th, 1875, was characterized with
much of the spirit of the present reforma-
tion. The minutes from the different wards
were spirited and encouraging, the speak-
ers seemed filled with light and intelligence
from on high; and in all their exhortations
sought to inspire others with an interest in
those things which are most conducive to
union and peace.
	Minutes of a Retrenchment meeting held
at Payson City, Aug. 12th, 1875. After the 
usual exercises and reading of the minutes,
Mrs. Jane Cowens, Mrs. Almeda M. Snider,
Misses Ida Coombs, Jenny Winsley, Phebe
Davis, Mary Curtis, Ida Richmond, Alice
Courts, Tishy Davis, Martha Fairbanks, An-
na Searle, Mary J. Done, Lucinda Win-
ward, Mary Fairbanks and Eliza Jones, each
made a few remarks; after which Presi-
dent Miss Jane Daniels said we had made a
good commencement and hoped we would
prosper, said we would accomplish much
good in attending these meetings. Meet-
ing then adjourned for one week after sing-
ing and prayer.
			MARTHA FAIRBANKS,
			ANNA SEARLE SEC'YS.
	We are prospering and hope to continue
tinue so. We are gathering straw
and we hope soon to be engaged in
straw braiding. We feel to encourage all
the Retrenchment meetings throughout the
Territory and hope we will soon all be en-
gaged in HOME INDUSTRIES. Wishing you
success in your endeavors to do the will of
God, we subscribe ourselves daughters of
Zion in the Gospel.
	Minutes of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association of the First Ward. Af-
ter the opening exercises and reading of
the minutes an essay was read by Mrs. A.
Fletcher. President Mrs. Sarah Graham ad-
dressed the meeting in a very pleasing and
encouraging spirit, she was followed by her
counselors Mrs. A. Campbell and Mrs. J.
Van Tassell.
	Mrs. M. G. Chase President of the Re-
lief Society spoke in a very impressive
manner; after which Miss S. Smith, Miss A.
Adams and Mrs. A. Fletcher expressed their
feelings in an earnest and humble spirit.
Mrs. M. Hawkins bore her testimony also;
Mrs. Shipp from the Eleventh Ward then
spoke upon the subject of Retrenchment
and her idea of woman and her work; also
spoke of obedience. Superintendent Mrs.
E. Higgs also spoke upon obedience. Bish-
op J. Warburton expressed his satisfaction
with the improvement we were making and
desired us to persevere in the path of duty.
He made some excellent remarks in regard
to the United Order, said it was the only
thing that would do away with selfishness;
asked the people if they were ready for re-
baptism and spoke of round dances as be-
ing against counsel.
	The President Mrs. Sarah Graham then
called for a vote to see who would refrain
from round dancing, and the majority re-
sponded. With the usual ceremonies
meeting adjourned.
			S. SMITH, A ADAMS, SECY'S.
				MANTI, July 22nd, 1875.
DEAR SISTER SNOW:
	Pardon the liberty I take in addressing
you, but owing to the limited time you
spent here I was unable to say much in re-
[Column 2]
gard to silk raising, and knowing that you
and your co-laborers are doing everything
in your power to establish this most useful
branch of industry among the sisters in
Zion, I thought a few words from one who
has been accustomed to feeding worms and
making silk from her childhood might not
be amiss.
	I have had a few worms for the last three
years, but I have not taken sufficient to 
make a business of it yet, nevertheless my
experience proved conclusively that, if we
immediately take measures to procure mul-
berry trees and put them where they will
be most secure from frost and work with a
will, it will yet be a source of untold wealth
for Utah. There are quite a number here
who have a few of the trees on their lots,
and I have requested them to save the cut-
tings. If we can procure a suitable place
to set them out this fall, we shall send to
the City for a large quantity. Since writ-
ing the above I have applied to our County
Judge for a half block owned by the County
in the south eastern part of town, in a very
favorable locality as regards frosts. The
Judge could not say whether the County
would sell it, but thought perhaps the So-
ciety might obtain a lease of it for a speci-
fied time. If we can get it and are success-
ful in getting the trees started we can make
a very fair beginning with what trees we
have in the gardens. If you have any
suggestions to make, or a word of counsel to
offer it will be most thankfully received. I
think your visit to our place will result in
great good to the sisters here, I can already
see a marked change, and think we are
awaking to a sense of our duty.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
				REBECCA WAREHAM,
						R. S. Society.
	WEST JORDAN WARD, Aug. 13th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Please permit me to say that I have been
a member of our society since the date of
its organization and have perused with
pleasure your invaluable paper, have been
delighted with reading the letters from dif-
ferent settlements through the Territory;
hearing how their societies were getting
along. I have looked the papers over
and over again to try to find a letter
from our society but failed. Ignorant as I
am I will drop you a few lines. We held
our meeting on Sunday, the eighth of the
present month. Bishops Samuel Wooley
and A. Gardner were present, they gave us
good instruction on the principles of the
gospel and more especially on raising our
children. Bishop A. Gardner gave us
great praise, said we had taken a great
load from him in taking care of the poor;
told us to press forward and we should be
blest. Sister Cooper, the first counselor
then thanked them, and herself and a few
other sisters bore their testimonies and the
meeting was adjourned. Prayer by Sister
M. Turner.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
						R. M. W.
	17th WARD, S. L. CITY, Aug. 13, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Semi-Annual Meeting was held at
the residence of Mrs. Susan E. Smith, on 
Thursday, the 5th day of August, and not-
withstanding the extreme heat of the
weather, the attendance was very large,
every block of the Ward being represented
by its Teacher; something that has not oc-
curred in many months.
	Our Treasurer Sister Eliza A. Felt, was
taken from us by Death on the 19th of June
[Column 3]
which was severely felt by all in the So-
ciety, as well as those who ever had the
pleasure of her acquaintance. She had
faithfully discharged the duties of Treasur-
er for over seven years, and genuine sor-
row was felt at her death.
	Our President Mrs. Hyde, motioned at
our last meeting that the Secretary write a
few lines to the EXPONDNT to let them and
others know that we are doing all in our
power to aid in rolling on the great Work of
the Latter Days, said motion was passed by
a unanimous vote. As a Society we are
busy making quilts for the coming winter,
and the visiting committee who have just
finished one, are making another for the
Temple.
	At a late meeting Mrs. Harriet Doremus
was elected Treasurer of the society in
place of Sister Felt. We all feel well and
hope to be worthy to remain your sisters in
the Gospel.
		MRS. M. N. HYDE, Prest.,
			MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secy.
		SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT.
Received in donations half-year... $ 80 00
Disbursed to the needy.................  104 07
Articles sold.................................     31 00
At interest....................................    418 00
Cash remaining in the Treasury...      17 95
Mdse............................................      80 00
			MRS. HARRIET DOREMUS, Treas.
				MANTI CITY, Aug. 16th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The following resolutions were read and
adopted by the Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Society, organized at Manti Aug.
14th, 1875.
	Whereas realizing the importance of a
correct training of our influence as young
ladies of Manti in directing the actions of
society, and whereas, we realize we are in
a great measure the architects of our own
fortunes for weal or woe in the community,
and the necessity of our preparing our-
selves for more responsible duties in life,
	Therefore be it resolved that we form
ourselves into a society of Mutual Improve-
ment for the cultivation of our mind in lit-
erature, religion and science, and using our
talents in the noble purpose of benefiting
mankind and especially our own sex.
	Twenty-five young ladies were enrolled,
of which were chosen,
	Miss Hannah Billings President,
	  "	Dortea Hansen,     }
	  "	Marrion Grier,      }
	  "	Hattie Moffit,       }
	  "	Christena Mason, }		Counselors.
	  "	Mary E. Vorhees,  }
	  "	Rensie Anderson, }
	  "	Maggie Reid,        }
	  "	Mary E. Snow Treasurer.
					BELLE MOFFIT, Sec'y.


A FEW DAY'S JOURNEY.

	What a difference a few miles will make
in surrounding scenery as you travel along,
and what is still more curious difference al-
so in climate, temperature and growth of
vegetation. Taking a north westerly course
from Fillmore, our route lay for the most
part through a vast tract of land covered
with grease wood, a miniature forest, in-
terspersed with broken glades grassy and
green, with now and then a flower lifting
its modest head to grace the beauty of the
scene; groups of trees, hill and dales, make
up the resemblance.


[Column 1]
	From this we passed over what is called
Rush Lake, now evidently completely
changed from what it was when first named,
as there is but little moisture remaining,
only a damp, rough and barren piece of
ground, with here and there bunches of de-
caying rushes. Here I met with a beauti-
ful plant growing near the outer edges,
which closely resembled the common dew
plant, though much more beautiful, having
very large handsome leaves and a small
starry flower.
	Crossing some sand hills we had a smooth
road for a few miles, then rocky black vol-
canic rock, which is considered very good
for building purposes; being porous it is not
apt to be so damp as the more solid material.
On our left, a huge mountain uprose, appar-
ently composed principally of sand stone;
the top of which the wind had swept into
queer cone shaped hills and hollows. Pres-
ently we came in sight of a beautiful lake,
on whose broad expanse sky, mountain
and tree were reflected as in a mirror; geese
and ducks, with other wild fowls were spor-
tively dipping and diving; who can com-
plain of want of water here? said we, but
alas! our lovely lake grew and less as 
we approached, until our eyes beheld (what
is called hereabouts) Mud Lake, and our
trees were sage brush, our water fowl a few
scattered rocks and stones. This so called
lake, is a large clear spot entirely destitute
of vegetation; varying in width from one
and a half, to two miles, and from six to
eight miles in length; it is of a chalky
whiteness interspersed with spots of slate
color, which combined, give the illusive ap-
pearance of water when seen at a certain
distance; very soft all seasons of the year,
and impassable in very wet weather; com-
posed of sand and chalk mixed with various
mineral substances of a soft nature. Gov-
ernment has not as yet surveyed this por-
tion of  country, and we know not what may
lie beneath this extraordinary composition.
The road at last brought us to another for-
est of grease wood, which appeared delight-
ful, being of a fresh green, exceedingly
restful to the eye after enduring the glare
of the sunlight on the mysterious Mud
Lake. Here on the banks of the Sevier
River are the remains of Deseret City, where
an immense amount of labor was expended
years ago which proved an entire failure;
the Sevier being an exceedingly treacher-
ous stream, and the people unacquainted
with any plan by which to secure a firm
bulwark against the water, unlike the little
animal called the beaver, which I am told
has formed dams at some point or points,
farther on toward the river's source. This
place is thirty-five or forty miles from Fil-
more. From this to Oak Creek, a distance
of about twenty-five miles north of East,
our road passed through sand hills and hol-
lows; within six miles of Oak Creek the
wind comes down through a gap in the
mountains and passing through a gentle
hollow, plays fantastic tricks with the sand
alternately tearing down, and building up;
scooping out and separating the white sand
from the black in a curious manner, form-
ing hills, the size of a small log cabin, only
a few rods distance from each other.
	Oak Creek is a small settlement nestling
closely to the mountain side, corn and su-
gar cane grow well here, with plenty of
vegetables; the inhabitants have built a
bridge over the Sevier river so as to cut off
some miles of travel to Sanpete Co., where
they go yearly to exchange corn and mo-
lasses, for wheat and flour. Fish in abun-
dance is caught from the river.
	The people are evidently wide awake in
their interests for the St. George Temple;

[Column 2]
The widow came also with her mite; they
gave liberally according to their means.
Bro. John Dudson of this place is making a
collection of ancient relics, found in plow-
ing his land; they are quite interesting.
More anon.		As ever yours,
						A. B. C.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE KINDERGARTEN—UTILIZING
			PLAY.

	The desideratum with intelligent and
thoughtful trainers of these active little
folk—it being the main point, that they
are always doing something—is to make
what they do tell to advantage in their un-
folding ; to educate them not so much
by books and homilies as by practical illus-
tration and example adapted to their un-
derstanding and always nicely graduated to
that. "A child at play is histrionic. He
personates characters with costume and
mimic gesture. He also undertakes to rep-
resent whatever thing interests his mind by
embodiment of it in outward form." But
child's play does not end in itself, and Froe-
bel has taken full advantage of this under-
lying fact of childish being. Children, as
we all notice, delight in movement; they ob-
serve keenly; they also invent and construct
—all this naturally and spontaneously. The
child that does not love play is not, cannot
be a healthy child. But the "plays" of
Froebel's Kindergarten are with profound
philosophy systematized and possess a far
deeper significance than to while away the
time.
	The location of the Kindergarten should
be carefully selected, should be as little pub-
lic as possible, the building so constructed
and arranged as to meet the requirements
of health, freedom and comfort, in order
that the children may have undisturbed en-
joyment of their own little world. The
hall itself must be light and airy, spacious
enough to afford room for marching, danc-
ing and plays, especially in rainy and in-
clement seasons. There should also be
a large and shady yard or garden for
frequent out-door exercises. It is very
desirable that the hall, besides its necessary
furniture of large, low tables and benches,
blackboards, charts, etc., should be adorned
with flowers and pictures, rendered attrac-
tive in every way and calculated to call forth
and minister to the growing taste and sense
of beauty in the child. The hall, with its
appurtenances, should always be kept in
proper condition—so far as practicable by
the little ones themselves—that habits of
cleanliness and order may be early instilled
and naturally developed. A piano-forte is
an invaluable adjunct of the Kindergarten,
of which music and singing form one of the
main features.
	Leaping on tables and over benches, rac-
ing, whooping, tearing of clothes, indeed
all the rudeness and boisterousness insepara-
ble from undisciplined natures, whether
youthful or adult, are "ruled out" of the
well-ordered Kindergarten, from the fact
that music accompanies the gymnastics and
intersperses all the exercises, and from the
further fact that so much of healthful free-
dom and variety of occupation are afforded.
The administration of the true Kindergar-
ten being guided by love, gentleness and
well-regulated and fixed purpose, conduct-
ed free of all needless restraint, and still
avoiding, on the other hand, confusion and
disorder, there naturally springs up on the
part of the child a feeling of delight and
affection toward the teacher and toward one
another.
	It is indispensable that the teacher be al-

[Column 2]
ways the first on the spot, not only for the
purpose of getting everything in readiness
for the operations of the day, but also that
her own mind and thoughts be perfectly
calm and composed, for she must feel her-
self for the time being at least, the little
one's truest friend. The children on enter-
ing are expected to be clean and tidy, the
teacher—however ngracious this portion
of her task may possibly be—also discour-
aging all extravagance or gaudiness of at-
tire with which some foolish, short sighted
mothers delight to disfigure their offspring.
Of all resorts, a hall of learning should be
the last for such displays of fancy, and lit-
tle children should not be made to feel their
inequalities of social position by means of
them. The teacher welcomes each little
one alike with a smile and friendly greet-
ing, instructing them by example to return
the same, and at the appointed time order
is called. Then position; simultaneous ris-
ing and sitting without noise, all of which
requires quite a little time for drilling.
	Singing can be conducted by placing the
children in rows according to size and sex.
Then come various exercises alternating on
various days. As soon as the teacher ob-
serves that the pupils grow fatigued with
any one thing and become restless, the sub-
ject of the exercise should be changed rath-
er than let the children give up their occu-
pation regrettingly, thus retaining within
them a longing for "what comes next," and
not feel bored or worried, which is a sure
way to make them lose interest. The ma-
terials (or Toys) pertaining to a successful
management of the institution are many
and various, but all of a character to gradu-
ally develop the infantile faculties in com-
paring and organizing figures of all kinds
according to the laws of form and color,
either by imitation, or in already advanced
stages, by their own unaided invention.
And here it may be remarked that all occu-
pations in the Kindgergarten are called
"plays," and the materials for occupation
"gifts." These I shall explain in a third
and, for the present, concluding article.
				    CAMILLA C. COBB.


WOMAN'S RECORD. 

	MRS. William C. Peck of New Haven,
sued that city for damages to the amount of
$5,000 for injuries received in consequence
of a defective side-walk.
	LADY Bulwer is spoken of as having very
beautiful violet eyes with black lashes, and
the most childishly innocent expression; and
to her is attributed the inspiration of many
of the beautiful poems of her husband
"Owen Meredith."
	Mrs. Lucy Stone has suggested that the
President of the United States, shall at the
Centennial, on the 4th of July 1876 lead on-
to the platform Mrs. Lucretia Mott, Lydia
M. Child, and Frances D. Gage, under a
black flag—commemmorating the fact that
women are ranked with idiots, felons and
ignorant men.
	MISS Mason and Miss Hamilton of
the graduating class in Vermont Universi-
ty have been elected to membership on ac-
count of their superior scholarship to the
Phil Beta Keppa Society. Professor Pea-
body of Chicago, President of the Alumni
Association hails this event as the
beginning of a new era; and he remarked
they had shown themselves thinkers, and
referred to the Alumni as their brothers
and warmly welcomed them to a place
among the Alumni. He congratulated the
institution on this progressive step.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
[---], $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT. 1, 1875.


[Column 1]
			A SHORT EXCURSION
	On the morning of the 27th of July, on my
way to Box Elder Co., I was joined by Sister J.
S. Richards at Ogden, and, exchanging the U.
C. for the U.N., arrived in Willard City in due
time.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society—
had a pleasant time, and, at half past 7 in a
general meeting, organized the young ladies
and girls in a Retrenchment Association, and
met with them on the following day at 2 p. m.
and instructed them in their duties and privi-
leges in an organized capacity. On that eve-
ning Sister Richards returned to Ogden; and
the next morning I went to Brigham City.
	Just after having been comfortably seated in
the house of my brother, Pres. L. Snow, I was
startled by a tremendous report of artillery,
which probably would have shaken a moder-
ately sized house into tremors, but, happily, the
one in which I was ensconced was proof against
that weakness. Surprised rather than terrified,
I hastily enquired to know what was up, and
was quietly informed that the warlike dis-
charge was in honor of my arrival, but, before
my "bump of esteem" had time perceptibly to
enlarge, I recollected that other ladies had been
announced, who should have accompanied me
but had been unavoidably detained, and the
thought suggested itself that, in all proba-
bility, a large portion of that thundering honor
was designed for them, and I concluded that,
had the master of that ceremony been notified
that I was a lone representative of the ladies of
Salt Lake City, he would only have discharged
one piece, and saved all extra ammunition for
other occasions. However, I accepted the dig-
nified expression, but a higher honor awaited
me.
	After this excitement had subsided, I was
escorted by ladies and gentlemen, to the Court
House where a very interesting exhibition—one
of more than ordinary importance, had been
gotten up in honor of the ever memorable 24th
of July, and was preserved intact awaiting my
arrival.
	As we approached the entrance of the Court
Yard, we were greeted with "WELCOME" so
conspicuously formed of evergreens on a white
ground, over the gate, and under a beautiful
arch of the same symbols, as to be distinctly
read in the distance and, as we passed through
we were gretted with "THE UNITED OR-
DER," under another arch surrounding the
steps leading into the Court House; and far-
ther on, "HOME INDUSTRY FOREVER."
	We then entered upon the extensive display,
consisting of choice specimens of Home Indus-
tries from the many departments in successful
operation in that thriving city, tastefully ar-
ranged, and filling every apartment up and
[Column 2]
down stairs. Already, thirty departments are
combined with a Superintendent over each—
these Superintendents all meet at slated times
to be farther instructed, as this great work pro-
gresses. I was informed that three depart-
ments were soon to be added, to wit, a tin-ware
establishment—one ladies' department for straw
manufacture, and one for Artificial Flowers.
Here, no complaint is heard for want of work—
this United Order furnishes employment for
all that want work, and pay from any or all of
these departments, with a specified percentage
from the Mercantile to supply necessary gro-
ceries, &c. But I must pass on from this im-
portant subject.
	At 2 p. m. a large congregation, in the capaci-
ty of a Relief Society, convened in the spacious
Bowery, presided over by Mrs. Harriet A.
Snow. Before the close of the meeting I re-
quested all those wearing home-made hats and
bonnets to signify it by rising to their feet. It
was judged by Pres. Snow, Bishop Nichols and
other brethren present, that two-thirds, at
least, of the congregation arose, including all
of the brethren.
	An expression from the young ladies was
called for, to ascertain if they wished to be or-
ganized into an Association for mental, moral
and spiritual improvement—decided in the af-
firmative, and a meeting was appointed for
that purpose, and all young husbands, beaux.
boys and parents, as well as young ladies and
girls, were invited to attend.
	The next morning (Friday) Sister Richards
rejoined me, and that evening the large public
Hall in the Court House was filled, (the speci-
mens on exhibition having been removed) and,
after appropriate instructions, I organized the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association with
President, six Counselors, Secretary and Assist-
ant Secretary. Over one hundred and fifty
were received by unanimous vote as members.
	Saturday afternoon the brethren held a gen-
eral Priesthood meeting of Box Elder Co., at
which Pres. Snow called for an expression to
ascertain how many were wearing home-made
hats, including fur, felt and straw. I was told
that there were not more than six exceptions,
which speaks well for the brethren of that
County. Many of them wear their home fac-
tory clothes summer and winter.
	Saturday evening Sister Richards returned
home, and Sunday morning, by kind invita-
tion, I went, with others, by carriage to the
tent village of the Shoshone Indians, whom
Brother Hill had been instructing in the culti-
vation of the ground, they being very desirous
of earning their subsistence and learning the
arts of civilization. When we arrived at the
location, we learned that their Bowery was
occupied by other Indians, just arrived from
the North, demanding baptism at the hand of
Bro. Hill, who was then giving them instruc-
tions necessary before performing the sacred or-
dinance. They were said to be from four to
five hundred in number, and I never saw a
more circumspect and attentive audience.
With the exception of the Sioux, these are the
finest looking Indians I have ever seen.
	After the meeting was dismissed, we all went
to the river and witnessed the baptism of per-
haps twenty braves—the brethren having left
an appointment in Bear River City on our
way to Shoshone town, we left Bro. Hill bap-
tizing, and three others confirming, as they
came forward, one by one, in perfect order. It
was an interesting and impressive scene—a liv
ing testimonial of the power of God operating
on the heart of the wild savage of the forest;
for, let it be remembered that these Lamanites
had not been sought after, nor preached to, by
the Latter-day Saints—they were instructed
[Column 3]
from on high, and the knowledge communi-
cated to them, without human instructors, to
whom they should go to receive the ordinances
of the Gospel of Christ.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting in
Bear River City, the rest of the company re-
turned to Brigham City—I stopped and met
with the Relief Society in the evening and
returned on Monday. Tuesday at 2. p. m., the
"Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association of
Brigham City" met in the public hall, and had
a very interesting time. The number of its
members was increased to over two hundred,
and it certainly gives promise of becoming an
instrument of great good for Zion.
	On Wednesday, by invitation of Bro. Jenson,
presiding Elder in Little Valley, I went to
Mantua, accompanied by Sisters H. A and M.
Snow and Sister Jenson—met with the Relief
Society in the morning, and in the afternoon,
organized the young ladies.—Thursday attended
fast meeting, and next day Sister H. A. Snow
and I took the morning train for Deweyville,
where we met with the sisters and assisted
Pres. Dewey in organizing a Relief Society,
and also organized a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association, and returned by the evening
train.
	In all our meetings, deep interest was mani-
fested by the sisters. and also by the brethren
who honored us with their presence, while we
earnestly tried to impress the necessity of
awaking to an active sense of our duties and
responsibilities as women of God, and exert a
united influence in promoting the interests of
Zion—in becoming truly a "peculiar people"
and exhibit the pattern of heavenly things in-
stead of the fashions of a corrupt generation.
Home Industries, as the only means of becom-
ing self-sustaining, was every where made a 
prominent subject. and considering the general
scarcity of money, I received liberal donations
from the Relief Societies of Brigham, Willard,
Bear River and Mantua Cities, and from indi-
viduals, in behalf of the Deseret Silk Associa-
tion.
	I have inadvertently omitted mention of a
pleasant meeting with the sisters at Three
Mile Creek, on the 30th, when a Branch of the
R. Society was organized. for the first time—
they having been previously connected with
that in Brigham City, over which Sister Har-
riet C. Snow presides.
	With a fervent prayer that the blessing of
God may attend the efforts of each organization
which has for its object the purifying and es-
tablishment of Zion, I close this hasty sketch.
				ELIZA R SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, August 12th, 1875.


WHO IS RICH?

	A cultivated and refined imagination is the
greatest source of pure enjoyment  Wanting
this, persons may be possessed of wealth un-
limited and surrounded by all things cheerful
and beautiful, yet pass along without music in
their hearts or sunshine in their lives, because
of their inability to comprehend the true value
of the blessings vouchsafed; or (to a happify-
ing extent) the magnanimity and excellence of
the bestower of all good.
	But to those who have the faculty of appre-
ciation full and improved, there is no bound to
innocent and intelligent pleasure. For such it
seems the world itself was formed. All works
of art, the most magnificent structures, the
boldest attempts at imitation of the inimitable
—and nature's self, her hights and depths with
all that they contain, are food for their deft
souls to feast upon. Not sight alone, but every
sense is gratified through the abundant mea-


sures heaven ordains. And not alone has
grandeur or great worth, for them, the power to
charm; things of the least import are worthy
their attentive thought. The humblest mani-
festations of the matchless wisdom of Omnipo-
tence, have means wherewith to please, aston-
ish and draw forth adoration.
	A floating cloud, a leaf, a ray of light; the
streamlet's ripple or the winds soft sigh; and
myriads of kindred sights and sounds serve
each to afford its portion of delight, by which,
with studious and reflective thought, long trains
of happy, useful days are filled.
	There are loftier pleasures still, which are se-
cured or lost through the same medium  Smiles,
loving words or acts, the dear, sweet delicacies
and higher courtesies of life, calculated to serve
so effectually in smoothing the rough places,
softening many a hard lot and lightening many
a heavy burden, are all lost to the suspicious,
unreasoning, inconsiderate being who fancies
every soul as sordid and selfish as itself, and
believes its coarse, unfriendly ways more hon-
est than the kind and gentle manner of the
generous and humane.
	Yet to one possessing inherent gratefulness of
heart with ambition to improve the natural
gifts, the most sacred bliss that mortals can en-
joy arises from the holy sentiments, love and
trust and kind appreciation; which, fashioned
into speech and action, form rich embodiments
of thoughts sublime.
	Nothing adds so much to individual happi-
ness as the feeling of grateful appreciation; and
nothing can be offered in return for obligations
more gratifying than the manifestations of it.
	There is even more satisfaction in contem-
plating the divine works in the formation of
man; his character and attributes, than in
those of nature. And were this done more ex-
tensively and thoroughly than it is, and more
genuine appreciation shown to real worth
though it might be surrounded by disadvanta-
geous ciucumstances—and not so much fawn-
ing and flattery lavished upon worldly wit and
wealth though coupled with evil—the world
would, without doubt, be blest with more true
men and women than it knows anything of to-
day.
	The sin of ingratitude the Lord has pro-
nounced a grievous sin. But how shall grati-
tude exist without a realizing sense of benefits
received! It becomes, therefore, a direct reli-
gious duty, as well as a principle of good taste
and judgment to cultivate an appreciative dis-
position. They are rich who can appreciate
and enjoy the blessings which the Almighty
administers to His believing children.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. M. E. Churchill from San Francisco,
gave us a call on Wednesday, August 15th. She
is here for a short time to write a chapter on
Salt Lake, in a new book she is about to pub-
lish; and also to canvass for her last work "Lit-
tle Sheaves.”
	THE DESERET University opened its regular
session Monday, Aug. 23rd. Prof. J. R. Park
President of the Institution, F. M. Bishop Pro-
fessor of sciences, Prof. K. G. Maeser theory and
practice of teaching, Joseph Toronto assistant
in mathematics. Incorporated with this in-
stitution is the teachers Normal School, Supt.
O. H. Riggs having charge of this department.
	ELDER ALBERT Carrington, wife and son
left home Aug. 25th, for England, where Elder
Carrington is to preside, relieving Elder Joseph
F. Smith who will return home this fall. It is
expected Elder Smith will sail from Liverpool
with a company of saints Sept. 15th. We most

[Column 2]
heartily wish Elder Carrington and family a
safe and pleasant journey to their destination.
	MONDAY, Aug. 30th, Miss M. E. Cook will
re-open her Graded School in the Social Hall.
This lady has just returned from a short visit
to the Eastern states, bringing with her, her
mother and little nephew. We welcome Mrs.
Cook to our mountain home, hoping that
she may find the climate congenial to her deli-
cate health, and advantages sufficient to induce
her to make Salt Lake her future home.
	WE WERE favored with a call recently, from
Dr. Mary E, Walker of Washington, the lady
whose peculiar style of dress has attracted so
much attention. She was accompanied by
Mrs. Gen. C. A. Van Cort, one of the Vice
Presidents and a member of the Executive
Committee of the Female Medical College,
New York City. Both these ladies express great
interest in "Woman's Work," and are devoting
their lives and faculties to the improvement of
the condition of woman according to their ideas
of progression. Dr. Walker, while here, de-
livered a lecture on "Cairo and the Pyramids."
She is pleasing in her address, and as modest
in manner as ladies who dress "a la mode."
	THE SILK culture is receiving special atten-
tion, and it has been positively demonstrated
that it may be made a success, if proper atten-
tion is given to its management. Mrs. Dr.
Dunyon has clearly illustrated this by example;
and in various parts of the Territory there have
been similar results. The next meeting of
those interested in this very important branch
of HOME INDUSTRIES will be held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Zina D. Young, three blocks
south of the Eagle Gate, on Wednesday, Sept.
1st, at 5 o'clock p.m.; all who wish to obtain
information in regard to silk worms, mulberry
trees, etc., are invited to attend.
	We have on hand several articles we are un-
able to publish on account of space. One from
Richfield, "Honor to the Memory of Pres.
Joseph A. Young," by Mrs. F. Anderson, Pip-
sey Papers by Mary, "Token of Respect" A Poem
by A. S. Armstrong, Extracts from a discourse
delivered by Elder J. F. Wells, Thirteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Aug. 19th, reported
by W. East. From the Seventeenth Ward a
Tribute of respect and a poem dedicated to
Mrs. E. A. Felt and read before the Semi-An-
nual Meeting by Mrs. G. A. Alder. Another
from the Seventeenth Ward, a farewell to Mrs.
R. M. Carrington, in the form of a surprise
party and pleasant re-union, and a very pretty
poem, appropriate to the occasion, by Mrs. G.
A. Alder.
	THE EDUCATIONAL Excursion  to Lake
Point, Aug. 13th, was a most delightful affair
until about 4 o'clock, while out upon the Lake,
the "Prince and Power of the air," perhaps
thinking we all were too happy, blew up a terri-
ble gale, which gave some of the party a new
experience of sailing on the water. From the
extreme heights of gaiety on deck, etc., the
company were removed to the depths of sorrow
and the lower story of the boat. However, all
came safely to land, and three hearty cheers
were given to Captain Douris at the landing for
the efficient manner in which he managed the
boat during the storm. Altogether the party
was a success and will be remembered as afford-
ing many pleasing remniscences of the day.


SARAH A. Hobart, of Freeport Maine,
has given to the American Colonization So-
ciety $5,000, and $2,000 each to the Board
of Foreign Missions, Tract Society,  Home
Missionary Society, and Bible Society, all
Ameaican institutions.


For the EXPONENT.
		RETRENCHMENT.

	As I am no speaker I feel impressed to put
a few of my thoughts on paper, taking re-
trenchment for my subject. The word re-
trenchment has a greater meaning than
many of us realize. It embraces all that is
Godly and all that is necessary for the sal-
vation and perfection of the daughters of
Zion. Pres. Young says the retrenchment
girls can do, what he cannot do; this is say-
ing a great deal, and I think we should be
encouraged to accomplish what is required
at our hands. There is a great responsibil-
ity rests upon our shoulders. Who are the
ones to carry out the purposes of the Al-
mighty? Is it those who follow the fash-
ions of Babylon and who have not the spir-
it of God in their hearts? No, it is the re-
trenchment girls who are now scorned by
those who do not know and understand our
aims, nor what we are striving to do; but
let us not be discouraged for we know we
are carrying out the requirements of hea-
ven. God and His holy angels are on our
side and we have no need to fear. We
should be proud that we have the privilege
given us to take part in so great a work.
	Let us not be ashamed of our religion in
whatsoever circumstances we may be
placed. If we are thrown in the com-
pany of outsiders, let us set an example
worthy of imitation, standing firm and
unshaken in the cause of truth, that
they who fight against it may be put to
shame. Let our motto be "The kingdom
of God or nothing."
	We have a wide field before us, and no
time to spare or spend foolishly; I think the
time is nigh at hand, when each one will
have to know for themselves that this is the
work of God or they will be liable to fall by
the wayside. Do not get weary in well do-
ing, for we have great things to live for,
there is a prize at the end of the race.
	I would urge my younger sisters to attend
strictly to their secret prayers, it is the
greatest source of comfort that we can
have, also a safeguard against many, I
might say every evil. If we go to the
Lord and ask a favor of Him in faith and
wisdom we are sure to receive the desired
blessing. Let us not speak lightly of any
of the principles of our religion. Retrench
ment teaches us to uphold all things that
come from God, and gives us wisdom to
judge between good and evil. Let us show
by our acts that we are saints in word
thought and action. We will be looked to
for example by those whose minds are dark
as midnight, who have not oil in their
lamps nor the spirit of God in their hearts.
Retrenchment girls have every advantage
that is necessary to make them pure and
noble women. We have set our mark high,
and let us not cease our exertions until we
have attained it.
				MISS JOSEPHINE MYER.
	11th Ward, S. L. City.


SISTER Smith a colored woman has gained
notoriety as a star of camp meetings. She
is described as a tall, erect, elegant figure,
and dresses plainly and simply, wearing no
jewelry. Her speech is very correct; she is
choice in her words, particular about pro-
nunciation, in her gestures graceful, with a
soft pleasing voice; she seems to have a
good idea of human nature, and in her anal-
ysis of it equals, it is said, "Dickins or Elli-
ot." She is a natural orator and herself and
her speeches as well as her manners are at-
tractive.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
MORTAL AND IMMORTAL ELEMENTS
		OF THE HUMAN BODY.
A PHILOSOPHICAL OBJECTION TO THE RES- 
		URRECTION, REMOVED
		BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.
[This article was published in No. 13, vol.
2 of the EXPONENT, but as it has been so
often called for we have decided to repub-
lish it. Both strangers and saints have
been much interested in the explanations
made in it concerning the future disposal of
the elements composing the material body.]
	The subject of the resurrection of the
dead, although of inexpressible interest to
all of the human family, is very little un-
derstood by man in the flesh, and will not
be explained until he who holds the keys
pertaining to it for this dispensation, shall
develop its principles.
	Although we cannot penetrate the cloud
of obscurity which envelops this subject;
knowing, as we do, that death is certain, it
is natural that we should enquire in the
depths of our souls, What and where is our
future? Who, that does not altogether ig-
nore the idea of a resurrection of the body,
but experiences at times, a bewilderment of
thought concerning it.
	Realizing that, in accordance with estab-
lished laws of nature, the substances which
now compose these bodies of ours, will, af-
ter death, become identified parts of innu-
merable other human bodies, also be incor-
porated into the bodies of beasts, insects,
fowls &c. and through them bequeathed to
others; the question naturally arises, 'How
can they be again restored to us? And, if
restored to us, from what source will the
deficiency be supplied to other bodies?'
	This is a problem which neither the rules
of science nor the wisdom of man, unaided
by revelation, can solve—a problem which
infieity very plausibly applies as a settled
refutation to the doctrine of the resurrec-
tion—one in which the worldly wise phi-
losopher finds a palpable inconsistency, and
one which in the face of sound reason
amonts to the impossibility of a re-organ-
ization of a human body: for what reflecting
mind does not see that the laws of nature
which apply to the decomposition of the
elements which constitute the living body,
preclude a possibility of the same material
being restored, at one and the same time, to
all bodies of which it has comprised compo-
nent parts in millions of instances, at differ-
ent times; and, believing God to be a con-
sistent Being, and acting in accordance with
eternal, unchanging laws, and admitting
that these laws are harmonious—that the
higher operate in consonance with, and are
never antagonistic to those of a lower order,
it is a matter of surprise that thinking peo-
ple of a highly intelligent class, in many
instances, yield to infidelity and adopt the
humiliating conclusion that the resurrection
is only a phantom of the brain: while oth-
ers, with little or no reflection, content
themselves by admitting that, "with God
all things are possible," without questioning
in what manner, or by what means the re-
sult will be effected.
	His communications to, and the dealings
of God with man, so far as they are made
known to us, are characterized as those of
an intelligent Being conversing and dealing
with intelligent beings of the same order,
but in a vastly lower state of development.
	In His works, order is every where strik-
ingly apparent, and we find law, or rather
codes of law regulating and governing, not
[Column 2]
only every department of life, but also every
grade and variety of matter. From the
smallest speck that glitters and dances in
the bright sunshine, to the glowing galaxy
above us, representing system on system of
worlds in the mighty distance, order is
everywhere manifest. Each department,
whether of life or inanimate matter, is gov-
erned by laws particularly adapted to the
peculiarities of its own identity, and in reg-
ular gradation from the smallest atom and
the most diminutive animalcule to the high-
est intelligence above and all, whether as-
signed to different localities or interming-
ling in countless varieties—all operating in
harmony and not interfering with, or tres-
passing on each other.
	Just so far as those laws are developed to
our understandings we pronounce them nat-
ural principles; and what, with us consti-
tute a miracle, is nothing more nor less
than our ignorance of the process of law by
which the result is produced: for instance,
when our Savior in Cana of Galilee, chang-
ed water into wine, it is evident that he
manufactured the wine through the agency
of chemical laws of a higher order than
those taught in the schools, hence the peo-
ple were filled with astonishment, for to
them, the performance was a miracle, they
probably being as ignorant of the laws
through which the result was obtained, as
we now are concerning the resurrection of
the dead. 
	In relation to the objections urged against
the re-organizing of the human body, we
are in possession of a very important and
beautiful principle which pours a flood of
light into the mind—obviates a heretofore
insurmountable difficulty, and disarms infi-
delity of its strongest plea against the res-
urrection, and puts impossibility to silence.
	By this we are instructed that the resur-
rection of the body is independent of all
gross, divisable and transferable matter,
and this removes every rational objection
against the reunion of body and spirit,
based on the incontrovertible laws of nature
pertaining to the decomposition of the
body, and the subsequent transformations
and reproductions of the material of which
it was composed. These are substances
borrowed for this probationary use—to sub-
serve the necessities of this mortal exist-
ence—to render us tangible to gross tangi-
bility, and for which, after death, our bod-
ies will have no further use.
	As soon as the spirit leaves the body, and
frequently before nature's great work of de-
composition commences, and continues un-
til every particle of gross, volatile matter
is disengaged and by natural laws of affinity
passes into other forms, combining with oth-
er substances through an infinitude of
changes; and co-operating in an endless va-
riety of reproductions: as, for instance, the
grass that grows over the grave incorporates
a portion of the gross substance escaping
from the decaying body beneath: the cow,
the sheep and the goose devour the grass
which, through the natural laws of nourish-
ment produces flesh—people eat the flesh of
the cow, sheep, and goose, and thus we may
trace the same identical matter, perhaps
divided and sub-divided into infinitesimal
particles and passing into every form of hu-
man, brutal, insect vegetable and atmo-
pheric existence—going onward from gen-
eration to generation.
	But thanks to God for the key which
solves the mystery. Every organized human
body, independent of the spirit, (which is a
separate organization) is composed of two
distinct grades or classes of matter, and in
such natural combination as to serve the
purposes of this lower existence. One is
[Column 3]
gross, volatile—subject to change and decay
through a precarious union of earth, air, fire
and water—tangible to mortal sight and
touch, and subject to all the laws of decom-
position. The other is pure, invisible, in-
tangible and capable of resisting every law
of infraction or dissolubility. This, when
the spirit leaves the body, remains INTACT—
never being incorporated with other bodies
or substances. This is the precious material
that will be resurrected in perfect form, and
compose the immortal tabernacle of the im-
mortal spirit.
	It is well understood that resurrected be-
ings are invisible to these gross organs of
sight except when they are quickened by
immortal vision, that if the dead were
brought forth within viewing distance of us
we should not see them. Why not? The
resurrected body being composed of this
pure material can only be seen by organs of
sight formed by the same pure matter, un-
clogged with gross substances. 
	While the gross portion is disorganizing
and reorganizing, being perpetually chang-
ing and in motion—while the disembodied
spirit is associating in the worlds above; the
pure substance, the precious germ of an
immortal tabernacle, the jewel's casket,
quietly sleeps in the bosom of mother Earth,
awaiting an eternal mandate, which, in ac-
cordance with the higher code, the celes-
tial law, shall reunite with the joyous spirit
filled with eternal intelligence, no more to
be separated.
	The Earth also, combines in its present
organization, both of the above mentioned
classes of elements; and, as well as man, will
yet experience a process of purfication be-
fore it can become the habitation and ever-
lasting inheritance of resurrected, immor-
tal, embodied intelligences. "The elements
shall melt with fervent heat." After hav-
ing passed the purifying ordeal, of fire, and
having been cleansed from all combustible
and volatile properties, the earth will pass
from its present orbit, to the position among
the creations of God from which it has fall-
en in consequence of man's transgression;
and then will that prediction of our Savior
be fully realized—"The meek shall inherit
the earth."


SEPARATE POCKET-BOOKS.

	Husbands and wives are not one in any
such sense as to obviate the necessity, or at
least the propriety, of each having a purse
with money in it that each shall feel free to
use as he or she chooses. Tastes differ, and
it is not fair that men or women shall be re-
quired entirely to subordinate their wish-
es in trifling matters to those of the oth-
er part. If they choose to do so, well
and good. Such deference to the opinions
of a husband by the wife is all the more
becoming when known to be voluntary
and not compulsory. A wife often wishes
to give money in charity, and she may
sometimes like to make a pleasant surprise
for her husband in the shape of some appro-
priate present. How can she do this if she
has to go to him and explain in detail what
money she needs and what use she propos-
es to make of it? In bestowing charity, we
are told not to let the left hand know what
the right hand giveth; but how is this pre-
cept to be fulfilled by the thousands of wo-
men who are the "right hand" of so many
households in works of charity where the
left hand, their husbands, keeps all the
money? A lady, evidently a farmer's wife,
writes very sensibly on this topic in the
Western Rural, as follows:
	"Every woman ought to have her own


pocket-book and some way of making mo-
ney that is her own. There are a number of
ways on a farm that this can be done, if one
has a mind to find them. I have a friend
who has all the butter she sells, or rather
all the money she gets for it, for her own;
she does with it as she pleases and accounts
for it to no one, and her husband (sensible
man) thinks it all right. I would not give
a snap to make my husband a present bought
with the money I had by hard exertions
coaxed from him. Who would? He per-
haps would not see what I wanted with it.
I do not want to tell him just then, there-
fore he does not think I need it. Perhaps
I don't; but I notice that the slippers I got
bottomed with it and gave to him on his
birthday or Christmas were thought by him
to be all right, and he didn't "see how he
had ever got along without them." Had I
told him at the time what I wanted of the
money, half the pleasure of receiving and
all the pleasure of giving would have been
gone.
	"Suppose you are out in company and the
ladies are raising a little private fund of
their own, as is often the case, how small a
woman feels to be compelled to say, "I
would like to give something, but Mr. D.
has got the pocket-book, and he is not
here!" Don't you think Mr. D. would feel
rather mean over it when she went home
and told him about it, as she would be sure
to do?
	"How many men can we pick out who
have every kind of improved machinery to
help along their work, who are every now
and then buying some patent right concern,
of no use to themselves or any body else,
while the wife doesn't have any of the
helps there are for her sex—often not even
a washer and wringer! I can find plenty
such. Would it be so if she had some of
the money to spend?
	"Does not a woman look better with a
neat dress, nice collar and a bow of bright
ribbon, than with the dress minus the collar
and bow? Still, if she had asked you to
get them, you would probably have told
her it was 'all foolishness having such fixins'
—she could do just as well without them.'
The woman who never has a little money
for her own use soon gets tired of trying,
and then is pretty sure to go to the other
extreme. Give me the woman that carries
her own pocket-book, and the man who
thinks it is all right for her to do so.
					AUNT PATSY.
	"Pleasant Hill, Iowa.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SINGLE WORD.

	The following touching story, was re-
cently told by a gentleman in Boston in
delivering a temperance address.
	A mother in the Green Hills of Ver-
mont, was holding her son sixteen years of
age by the right hand, as he was about to
leave her, "mad with the love of the sea."
As she stood thus by the garden gate
on a sunny morning she said: "Edward,
they tell me—for I never saw the ocean—
that the great temptation of a seaman's
life is drink. Promise me, before you quit
your mother's hand, that you will never
drink." "And, said he, for he told me the
whole story, I gave her the promise and I
went the broad globe over—Calcutta, the
Mediterranean, San Francisco, the Cape of
Good Hope, the North and South pole I saw
them all in forty years, and I never saw a
glass filled with sparkling liquor, that my
mother's form by the garden gate on the
green hill-sides of Vermont, did not rise be-


fore me; and to-day, at sixty, my lips are
innocent of the taste of liquor. Was not
that sweet evidence of the power of a sin-
gle word? Yet that was but half. "For"
said he, "yesterday there came into my
counting room  a young man of forty, and
asked "Do you know me?" "No." "Well,
I was once brought drunk into your pres-
ence on ship-board; you were a passenger,
the Captain kicked me aside; you took me
to your berth, and kept me, till I had slept
off the intoxication. Then you asked me if
I had a mother: I said I never knew a word
from her lips; you told me of yours at the
garden gate, and to-day I am the master of
one of the finest packets in New York; and
I come to ask you to call and see me."
	How far that little candle has thrown its
beams! God be thanked for the Almighty
power of a single word.


WHAT OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES
	SAYS OF LONG DRESSES.

	Our landlady's daughter is a young lady
of some pretentions to gentility. She wears
her bonnet well back upon her head which
is known by all as a mark of high breeding.
She wears her trains very long, as the great
ladies do in Europe. To be sure their
dresses are so made only to sweep the tap-
estried floors of chateaux and palaces; and
those odious aristocrats of the other side do
not go dragging through the mud in silks
and satins, but forsooth, must ride in coach-
es when they are in full dress. It is true
that, considering the various habits of the
American people, also the little accidents
which the best kept sidewalks are liable to
a lady who has swept a mile of them is not
exactly in such a condition that one would
care to be her neighbor. But confound the
make believe women we have turned loose
in our streets! Where do they come from!
Not out of Boston parlors, I trust. Why
there isn't a beast or a bird that would drag
its tail through the dirt in the way these
creatures do their dresses. Because a queen
or a duchess wears long robes on grand oc-
casions, a maid of all work or a factory girl
thinks she must make herself a nuisance by
trailing about with her—pah! that's what I
call getting vulgarity into your bones and
marrow. Making believe what you are not
is the essence of vulgarity. Show over dirt
is one attribute of vulgar people. If any
man can walk behind these women and see
what they rake up as they go, and not feel
squeamish, he has got a tough stomach. I
would not let one of them into my room
without serving them as David served Saul
at the cave in the wilderness—cut off his
skirts. Don't tell me that a true lady ever
sacrifices the duty of keeping all about her
sweet and clean to the wish of making a
vulgar show. I won't believe it of a lady.
There are some things that no fashion has a
right to touch, and cleanliness is one of
those things. If a woman wishes to show
that her husband or father has money, which
she wants and means to spend, but doesn't
know how, let her buy a yard or two of silk
and pin it to her dress when she goes out to
walk, but let her unpin it before she goes
into the house.


BEAUTY AND BRAINS.

	Some newspaper writer reviews the la-
mentable truism that literary women are
seldom beautiful. Their features, particu-
larly their foreheads, are more or less mas-
culine. But there are exceptions to all
rules, and Miss Landon was an exception to


this one. She was exceedingly feminine
and pretty. Mrs. Stanton is likewise a
pretty woman, but Miss Anthony and Mrs.
Livermore are both plain. Maria and Jane
Porter were women of high brows and ir-
regular features, as was also Miss Sedgwick.
Anna Dickinson has a strong masculine face;
Kate Field has a good-looking though by
no means pretty one, and Mrs. Stowe is
thought to be positively homely. Alice
and Pheoebe Cary were both plain in features,
though their sweetness of disposition added
greatly to their personal appearance. Mar-
garet Fuller had a splended head, but her
features were irregular and she was any-
thing but handsome, though sometimes in
the glow of conversation she appeared al-
most radiant. Charlotte Bronte had won-
drously beautiful dark-brown eyes and a
perfectly-shaped head. She was small to
diminutiveness, and was as simple in her
manners as a child. Julia Ward Howe is a
fine-looking woman, wearing an aspect of
grace, refinement and great force of charac-
ter in her face and carriage. Laura Holloway
resembles Charlotte Bronte both in personal
appearance and the sad experience of her
young life. Neither Mary Booth nor Ma-
rion Harland can lay claim to handsome 
faces, though they are splendid specimens
of cultivated women, while Mary Clemmer
Ames is just as pleasing in her features as
her writings are graceful and popular.—
R. N. Y.


A WOMAN SEVEN TIMES WEDDED.

	The Symrna (Del.) Times reports the
marriage on the 30th of June of Mr. Benja-
min Abbot to Mrs. Mary Pratt. This is the
seventh time the lady has been married,
each time except the first to a widower, and
she has never borne any children, though
her successive husbands had large families
by former marriages.
	Mrs. Abbott's names have been eight in
all—Miss Williams, Mrs. Truax, Mrs. Fur-
row, Mrs. Riggs, Mrs. Wallace, Mrs, Berry,
Mrs. Pratt, and now Mrs. Abbott. The
lady and her husbands have always lived in
the same locality, and each one knew the
others all their lives. Mrs. Abbott is up-
ward of seventy years of age, and had
been a widow for five years previous to her
last marriage—the longest term of widow-
hood she ever experienced. She always
had a presentiment that she would have
seven husbands, but is doubtful if much
was ever said about this to her former part-
ners, or if they would have liked conversa-
tion on this subject. At all events the pre-
sentiment has come true, but is surely to
be hoped that the lady will not have any
more.


INTELLECTUAL CULTURE—A cultivated
mind may be said to have infinite stores of
innocent gratification.  Everything may be
made interesting to it, by becoming a sub-
ject of thought or inquiry.  Books regarded
merely as a gratification, are worth more
than all the luxuries on earth.  A taste for
literature secures cheerful occupation for
the un-employed and languid hours of life;
and how many persons in these hours, for
want of innocent resources, are now im-
pelled to coarse pleasures? How many
young men can be found who, unaccus-
tomed to find a companion in a book, and
strangers to intellectual activity, are almost
driven, in the long, dull evenings of win-
ter, to haunts of intemperance and vice.—
Floral Cabinet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	BRIGHT AND EARLY.
Bright and early is the theme
	We should ever keep in view;
Always hold it as supreme
	This will bear us safely through.
If we're bright and early over,
	In the race through life to run,
When life's thread grini death shall sever,
	The glorious prize is surely won.
Those who are both bright and early
	'Mid the varied scenes of earth:
They can read their title clearly
	Unto a celestial birth.
Bright and early came the woman
	To the Sepulcher to weep;
On the Resurrection morning,
	It was not the time to sleep.
All who have been great or useful,
	In the battle of this life,
They have been both bright and early
	Foremost in the noble strife.
							SOLO.


FLOWERS.

	A WHITE glove often covers a dirty
hand.
	God blesses not alone that which we do,
but that which we try to do.
	NEVER part without loving words to
think of during your absence.
	HE has the largest life who lives lovingly
in the hearts of the largest number of peo-
ple.
	IT is but a short step from modesty to
humility, but a shorter one from vanity to
folly.
	HEARTS have windows.  They should be
kept open at all times, that the glad sun-
shine of all that is true and beautiful in this
life may enter and abide therein.
	IF I were suddenly asked to give a proof
of the goodness of God to us, I think I
should say that it is most manifested in the
exquisite difference He has made between
the souls of women and men, so as to cre-
ate the possibility of the most charming
companionship the mind of man can imag-
ine.—Arthur Helps.
	FEELING maketh a lively man; thought
maketh a strong man; action maketh a use-
ful man—and all these together make a per-
fect man.  Now, abide these three: Feel-
ing, thought, action, and the greatest of
these is action; but neither can abide with-
out the others.  Some men think much,
feel little, and act less.  They are univer-
sally unsafe and unlovely men.
	THERE are some men who carry sunshine
and happiness, by their very presence,
wherever they go.  The ills of life sit
lightly on them; they make the best of
everything. They inhale and enjoy the fra-
grance of the rose while it lasts, without
pausing to lament that to-morrow its leaves
will be withered.  Their hearts swell with
delight at the many-colored rainbow, and
as its hues quickly fade, they say to them-
selves, Never mind, it was a bright bow of
promise, anyhow.
	Such people are the true, practical philoso-
phers.  They find in the fact that life is
short a conclusive argument in favor of en-
joying as nearly every moment of it as pos-
sible.
	They are not only the happiest of people
themselves, but they do a great deal to
make all around them happy.  Their pres-
ence is everywhere welcome; their absence
is felt and regretted.  They help the world
on, and contribute to make it joyous.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Broiled Tomatoes.—Cut medium-sized tomatoes
in halves and put them upon a gridiron, surface
down. When the surface appears to be somewhat
cooked turn them, and finish the cooking with the
skin toward the fire. The cooking should be
gradual, so as not to break the skin. Place upon
a dish, put a little salt and a lump of butter upon
each half, and serve quite hot.
	To Can Tomatoes.—Be sure they are perfectly
fresh and ripe; immerse them a minute or two in
scalding water—in an ox muzzle if you have one;
remove the skin, put the pulp into a colander to
drain; then put in the preserving kettle and boil
till just done; a minute to long will make the seeds
give out their bitter flavor, put at once in cans and
seal. If these directions are followed, you may
have tomatoes all winter as fresh as though just
from the vine.
	Chowder of Piccalilli.—To half a bushel of
nicely chopped tomatoes, which must be squeezed
dry, add two dozen onions chopped fine, one doz-
en green peppers chopped, one box of ground
mustard, one large root of grated horseradish,
nearly a pint of salt, four tablespoonfuls ground
cloves, four of allspice. Mix thoroughly in a
stone jar and cover with vinegar, making a hole
in the center to let the vinegar to the bottom.
	Chow Chow.—Take 3 pecks of ripe tomatoes and
3 of green ones, 5 large solid cabbage heads, 1 doz.
large onions, one doz. white peppers, 1 doz.
green peppers; 1/2 lb. celery, chop these all very
fine, cover with salt, soak 24 hours, then drain off
the brine, cover with vinegar, add 3 lbs. sugar, one
teacupful of grated horse raddish; 2 tablespoon-
fuls of white mustard seed, 1 of cloves, 2 of all-
spice, 2 of ginger, 1 of ground mustard, cover
all closely and set it aside for one month then it
is ready for use.
	To Remove Mildew.—We have several times
been asked for a valuable recipe for the removal
of mildew. We doubt whether there is any meth-
od that is infallible in all cases, but the following,
which we find in an English Journal, will often
prove effectual: Make a very weak solution of
chloride of lime in water (about a heaped-up tea-
spoonful to a quart of water) strain it carefully,
and dip the spot on the garment into it; and if the
mildew does not disappear immediately, lay it in
the sun for a few minutes, or dip it again in the
lime-water. The work is effecutally and speedily
done, and the chloride of lime neither rots the
cloth nor removes delicate colors, when sufficiently
diluted, and the articles rinsed afterwards in clear
water.—Boston Journal of Chemistry.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"WHAT is the Blarney stone?"  We be-
lieve it to be the same as the Sham rock.
	WHY do housekeepers preserve so much
fruit?  Because they can.
	WHAT should be the name of a lawyer's
wife?  Sue.  A printer's wife?  Em. A
druggist's wife? Ann Eliza.  A carpet
man's wife? Mat-tie.
	TAKE away my first letter, take away my
second letter, take away all my letters, and 
I am still the same—The postman.
	IT was Sydney Smith who retorted upon
some one who called him an every-day
man. "Well if I am an every-day man you
are a weak one."
	SPEAKING of railroads a wag remarked
that they are now built of three guages,
viz:  Broad guage, narrow guage and mort-
gage.
	WHAT is the difference between, the 
death of a barber and a sculptor?  One curls
up and dyes; the other makes faces and
busts.


WHY would a Frenchman say that an in-
ferior singer at the opera was an indecent
character?? Because he is always in de
chorus.
	"IS this the Adam House?" asked a stran-
ger of a Bostonian. "Yes;" was the reply;
"its Adam's House until you get to the
roof, then its eves."
	A YOUNG lady who had no time to spare
for making garments for the poor has been
engaged three weeks embroidering a blank-
et for her poodle dog.
	"YOU would be very pretty indeed," said
a gentleman patronisingly to a young lady,
"if your eyes were only a little larger."
My eyes may be very small, sir, but such
people as you don't fill them.


CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume.

10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club.	-	-	-	-	- $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	- 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as  their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.

			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF 
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,

					AND 
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		Feathers, Wall Paper,
				AND
		BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
