VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1876.	No. 20.


A PICTURE IN MEMORY.

AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO MRS. E. B.
WELLS ON HER BIRTHDAY, FEB. 29TH, 1876,
	BY HER SISTER MRS. L. M. G. HEWLINGS.

I was going to write thee a letter my dear,
	All in poetic verse or in rhyme,
I had seated myself, and had taken my pen,
	And just written—"My Dear Emmeline,"
When a knock at the door called me down from my room,
	And scattered my thoughts far away:
So whether I shall finish the letter or not,
	Would puzzle me greatly to say.

I am turning the leaves of the days o'er and o'er,
	Thus the years of the past I can trace.
I am standing again, at the wide open door,
	Where I first saw your sweet infant face.
Fond mem'ry has thrown back her gates wide ajar—
	Bid me enter her silent domain.
I have wandered along 'neath hope's brilliant star,
	To the "Gardens of Childhood" again.

The dear home-faces greet me, soft hands clasp with mine,
	Bright eyes are brimming over with glee,
There is freshness and beauty on blossom and vine,
	And sweet song-birds in every green tree;
There is chanting and laughter, and frolic and fun,
	Ringing out on the breezes to-night,
The day's lessons are over, and tasks they are done.
	Was there ever a lovelier sight?

The pastime is over, we are kneeling to pray:
	Kisses are given, good nights are said.
"O, our Father in Heaven," some lispingly say,
	"Watch, while we slumber, over our bed!"
Fair, beautiful pictures, I have gathered to-night,
	Roaming through memory's gilded hall.
I have one I will send thee, so dazzlingly bright,
	It must answer, dear sister, for all.

In a warm, cheerful room, on a mild winter's day,
	There's a table spread out for a feast,
And viands thereon in such tempting array,
	Nought seems lacking the fancy to please,
The guests are all gathered: see, they march round in file
	They're saluting the Queen of the feast—
At the head of the board, a bright, beautiful child,
	Enthroned upon her cushion-like seat.

Grandpa, with white flowing hair, to baby Celeste,
	I see through the years, two score and four,
Dear parents, happy children, and "merry Aunt Bess,"
	Look the same as on that day of yore:
Only one fair face wanting to make it unique.
	Were it not for that one "vacant chair"
The circle were unbroken—the picture complete:
	But to me it seems wondrously fair.

Of the numberless blessings, kind wishes expressed,
	To bring happy returns of this day,
O, my sweet "Rosabell,"* it were needless to tell,
	But the picture is fresh as the May.
Dear sister, the letter I intended to write,
	I will finish on some future day,
But the picture accept, with a loving "good night,"
	As a gift for thy coming birth-day.

			FROM SISTER LU.
	MONDAY EVE., Feb. 28, 1876.
		*PET NAME.


[Column 1]
		A WOMAN'S REASONING.

THOUGHTS SUGGESTED BY READING SENA-
	TOR CHRISTLANCY'S BILL FOR UTAH.

	If I were a favored daughter of President
Grant's (and had my experience) I would
prepare for him a savory dinner, and after-
wards a glass of the best wine, and a fine
cigar, and when his soul was refreshed, I
would tell him of Utah; the goodly length
of its territory, variety of its climate, its

[Column 2]
rich mineral resources, and so forth; the why
we came, and how, and what we found
here; the toils of husbands and mothers to
raise large families, that now people this
once desert land. It would be no trouble
to find six men who have one hundred
children all honorable, not a defect in one of
them. I would say, think, dear Father,
would it be possible for the fathers and
mothers under the broad folds of our Re-
publican Government, to say to all these
and the thousands more, you are all out-
casts. All these sons have been taught that
our constitution was framed by men inspir-
ed of God; and these fair daughters of the
mountains, that virtue was preferable to
life without it. Would not many wish
they had a Virginius for a father-if-and if?
	I would say, dear Father, can our lawgiv-
ers at the great Capitol sanction the blotting
out of a system of religion that teaches
men and women how to live pure lives and
avoid the wickedness and excesses which
are so prevalent in the world.
	Think of two thousand and more betray-
ed females in the city of New York, and
other large cities. Who looks after their
forlorn situation? Who devises means for
their protection that they may return to the
paths of virtue?
	The whole law of God hangs on the word,
"Love God with all thy heart, and thy
neighbor as thyself." Who is seeking to
live up to this higher law; who comes as
near to it as the ladies of Utah?
	How little did I think to live to see what
I have of the injustice done to an innocent
people; when a child I used to sit on my
grandfather's knee (he was a pensioner for
many years) and hear him tell of his hard
fought battles under Washington, the vic-
tories so dearly won, and what he had en-
dured. His father was one of the signers
of the Declaration of Independence.
	I would say, dear father, do you think a
polygamous grandmother can sit thought-
lessly, and read Senator Christaincy's bill,
now before Congress, to disfranchise those
sons and daughters who have been taught
to honor their country and believe in relig-
ious toleration through which they owe
their legalized rights to citizenship? Dear
father, I would like to tell you all about
the happy homes in these mountain valleys;
there were no houses of ill-fame, no ghastly
forms of excesses in the streets of Salt Lake,
not a female convict in Utah's prison, un-
til within a short time.
	How often we see a wife pale and feeble,
a hale hearty husband, and not a child to
bless their home, her days spent in loving
deeds to others. Why may she not share her
home with another? Merry children break
the silence, and the wife's heart entwines
itself around them as tenderly as if they
were her own; their mother an honored
wife. And who is robbed? None. But
another womans heart is made glad with
tender motherly feeling, and she partici-
pates in the love and affection which God
has given to his daughters as their privi-
lege and right.
	What is hoarded wealth compared to
home enjoyments? Nothing. Men should
be protectors of virtue, but alas! Father,
they make it a trophy of victory, the dis-
honor of my fair sisters the world over.

[Column 3]
Where is my sisters resort for redress?
Where the cover for their shame, but their
hopes of an early grave? Our noble sires
look calmly on the sinking thousands of the
fair daughters of America, and make no ef-
fort to redeem the land from the terrible
curse of prostitution. It cannot be possi-
ble they will license it.
	In Utah, dear father, mothers are con-
tent to raise noble sons and da[-]ghters, they
have no desire to destroy life transmitted
to offspring.
	And, dear father, if it would not be out
of place I would like to whisper to our no-
ble lawgivers, (not forgetting you my dear
father) would it not be good economy to
hold a place of kind and warm-hearted af-
fection in the hearts of a hundred thousand
brave mountain boys, with strong hands,
clear minds and pure blood, in case of a
foreign invasion. Rome fell, Babylon is
not, and who knows what may transpire.
	We have done like our legislature here
this winter, we came here and cost the
country nothing, and sustained ourselves,
to open the way for the telegraph poles, and
iron rails to reach from ocean to ocean.
What would it have cost this nation to have
subdued the sterility of the soil, and fed
the Indians? But we care not for the tons of
flour and beef, though we still mourn for
the many that have fallen by the Indians
treacherous hands going through these
canyons for wood, building mills etc. And
now the government would forbid us tim-
ber, take from us every office of trust, and
want to refuse us a voice in the choosing of
our rulers. I would suggest what a noble
act it would be, for this glorious Republic
to hand down to unborn generations if they
would give to every pioneer that came to
this desolate country a handsome present
of land, that ingrtatitude may not be at-
tached to the men of power in this nation.
	Could the people of this territory be
truly understood there would be nothing but
kind feelings towards them, as a people, in
Washington. As true daughters of Ameri-
ca we cherish naught but kindness to all
good and worthy objects, and ask the pro-
tection of this government for ourselves,
husbands, and children. In no other coun-
try are females so truly respected, and vir-
tue so carefully guarded as in Utah.
	I would add, dear father, I hope you are
not so weary with me, but that we might
have another profitable chat at some future
time, for there is much that has not yet
been told concerning this peculiar people
and their institutions.
			DIANTHA BAKER.
Salt Lake City, March 4th, 1874.


PEOPLE are proud to condemn in others
what they practise in themselves without
scruple, Plutarch tells of a wolf, who, peep-
ing into a hut where a couple of shepherds
were regaling themselves with a joint of
mutton exclaimed, "what a clamor they
would have raised if they had caught me
at such a banquet!"


BE what you are; this is the first step to-
ward becoming better than you are.—J. C.
Hare.


154		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	Grantsville City, Tooele County,
				February 21st 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from Grantsville
would not be amiss, I will try and say a few
words about the Grantsville Relief Society.
We meet twice a month, once in the capacity
of a business or testimony meeting, and once
for sewing when we quilt or sew for the
poor. There are not a great many poor peo-
ple here, but what there is, we assist and
make comfortable as far as we can. In Jan-
uary last, our President, Mrs. Hunter, pro-
posed giving them a good dinner, when the
members of the society responded to the
call, and the poor were blessed with some of
the good things of this life, while those who
had supplied the food were blessed in the
satisfaction of having done a good deed in
ministering to the needy. Our testimony
meetings have been more largely attended
of late, and sometimes one or more of the
brethren meet with us, give us good
counsel and encouragement, and sometimes
assist us with means; and though it is
something new for us to speak in public,
yet we feel to do so in our meetings to the
best of our ability, for we know that by so do-
ing we are not only benefitting those who
hear us, but feel strengthened ourselves;
for it learns us to lean on our Heavenly
Father for help. In arising to speak we
feel our own weakness, and it brings humil-
ity. I know the Lord does bless us in our
meetings and pours out His spirit upon us.
We counsel and advise each other in our
duties to our fellow beings, and the great
work that is before us. Our President Mrs.
M. A. Hunter is certainly the right wo-
man in the right place; and is persevering
in doing good; she is ever ready with assist-
ance and good counsel to bless the needy.
I believe she has the confidence and good
feelings of the people here, and inasmuch
as we carry out the counsel she gives us, I
am sure this Society will prosper.
	Our enemies are very fond of talking of
the women of Utah as being a poor down-
trodden set of women, but I think were
they to visit Utah with an unprejudiced
mind they would alter their opinions.
They would see that the women of Utah
are counseled to improve their minds, study
good books, teach their children the prin-
ciples of salvation, to be industrious, truth-
ful and honest, and serve God with all their
hearts.
	The members of the Retrenchment Asso
ciation are all going to school now, as we
have an excellent teacher from Salt Lake
City to instruct them; and as their time is
so fully occupied, it has been decided to
postpone their meetings till early Spring
when school will be over.
	Praying God to bless and aid you in your
labors, I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
						MARY COOKE.

			HYRUM, MARCH 1st, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Sister Lil-
jenquist, I send you a short report of our
doings since I last wrote you: We meet
every fast day at 2 o'clock, and converse
freely concerning our spiritual and tempor-
al welfare, the necessities of the poor, &c.
	A good spirit seems to prevail among the
sisters and many of them are disposed to
carry out the counsel of President Young.
We have instituted a straw-braiding school,
and are preparing to manufacture our own
hats and bonnets. We have also made elev-
en bed quilts—we also, pursuant to your

[Column 2]
counsel, made a bed-spread and table-cover
for the Fair. We had a very enjoyable par-
ty on the 25th ult. It being leap year, the
sisters bought the tickets, and under the
arrangement of our worthy President, our
party was conducted according to the coun-
sel given in the Deseret News—commencing
at 2 p. m., and at 5 o'clock refreshments
were served; we continued our dancing,
with songs occasionally and a speech from
the Bishop, until 10 o'clock, all feeling first-
rate. Our Hall was very tastefully decor-
ated, by Bro. Hansen, with evergreens, a
large wreath extending around the Hall,
portraits of the First Presidency, several of
the Twelve, our Bishop, and many others,
also the banners of five nationalities. We
also exhibited our specimens of home man-
ufactures, which all seemed to fully appre-
ciate.
	We are always glad to receive the Ex-
ponent, but feel ashamed that there are so
few subscribers in Hyrum. Your agent
here frequently appeals to the sisters for
their patronage, but in consequence of the
scarcity of money, they are unable to take
more at present.
					Yours Respectfully,
						N. M. NEILSEN.

		WILLARD CITY, March 2, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Willard is in a pros-
perous condition; we meet once in two
weeks; the sisters are united, and are ever
willing to respond to any call that is made
by our President, Mrs. Mary Ann Hublard.
On Saturday, Feb. 26th, the sisters had a
social party and picnic. Free tickets were
given to the aged widows. We assembled
at two o'clock in the afternoon and dis-
missed at ten in the evening; the brethren
and sisters enjoyed themselves in the dance
and harmony and good feelings prevailed.
In the afternoon Sister Abbott read a vision
entitled "a hundred years hence," which
was listened to with great attention. Truly
the Spirit of the Lord was with us, and we
felt to thank him for the enjoyment we had
in each others' society.
	With sorrow for her loss, I send you the
report of the death of our beloved sister,
Ellen Chatterly Wood. She was born in
Lancashire, England, June 10, 1812. Bap-
tized in 1840, and emigrated to St. Louis
in 1850. Came to the valley in Oct. 1851.
Married to John P. Wood Nov. 29th 1851.
Died Jan. 14th, 1876, aged 63 years, 7
months and 28 days. She was sick about
one month with typhoid fever. She was
First Counselor in our Relief Society to Sis-
ter Hubbard. She died firm in the faith,
and was highly respected by a large circle
of friends and acquaintances.
		With respect, your sister
						in the gospel,
				HANNAH COOK, Secretary.

			CLIFTON, ONEIDA CO., IDAHO;
							March 3, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT;
	I thought I would send you a few items
pertaining to us as a Relief Society, know-
ing the interest you take in our welfare.
We held our re-organization meeting on the
17th of Oct., 1875, and the following sisters
were nominated as officers: Mrs. Jane M.
Howell, President; Mrs. Lucretia M. Marler
and Mrs Elizabeth Howell, Counselors; Mrs.
Kittie Dixon, Treasurer; Mrs. Jane Smith,
Secretary, and Mrs. Martha Rasicot Assist-

[Column 3]
ant Secretary; Mrs Mary Thomas President
of teachers, Mrs. Sarah Howell, Amelia
Dixon, Kitty Dixon, Lydia A. Howell,
Sarah A. Larsen, teachers; and all the mem-
bers feel as one with the officers in doing
their duty and in sustaining righteousness
among us; we are quite a way north up here
in Idaho, but still we are one with all Israel,
and feel to be one with the Saints and those
who intend to do what is right.
	Ever feeling desirous for the welfare of
Zion, and the promotion of truth;
			We remain your sisters,
		JANE SMITH, Secretary
		MARTHA RASICOT, Ass't Sec.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Feeling an interest in your paper and al-
so wishing you to know what we the mem-
bers of the Young Ladies Retrenchment As-
sociation are doing in Beaver, I with pleas-
ure address you at this time.
	The Retrenchment Association was re-
organized on the 27th of Nov., 1875, with
J. P. Murdock Farnsworth President, and
Harriet S. Shepherd, Alzina E. Skinner,
Celia E. Hunt, Melissa B. White, Frances
L. Harris and Agnes Curfew her Counsel-
ors, also Eliza E. Parkinson Secretary, and
Alice M. Tyler Assistant Secretary. The
meetings are well attended and a good
spirit manifested. We had a Leap Year
Retrenchment Picnic Party on the 15 inst.,
which opened at 2 o'clock p. m. and contin-
ued until ten at night; we allowed no round
dancing at said party. We had an original
opening address by the President, and se-
lect readings, essays, recitations, songs etc.
by the members which were well executed,
and altogether we had a very enjoyable
time.
	All the members of our Association seem
to feel happy as well as willing to give their
influence and might in the good work of re-
form, as regards keeping late hours and
round dancing etc. which have been prac-
ticed to so great an extent in our ball rooms
for so many years, but which are neverthe-
less injurious in their tendency, as well as
demoralizing in their influence. We, the
whole Association, are proud to be recog-
nized as members of so praiseworthy a so-
ciety, proud of our religious institutions,
for as all know they embrace everything
which will bless and ennoble woman and
man on earth and prepare them for a grand-
er and happier state of existence.
	With sincere feelings and the best of
wishes for your future success, I remain
most respectfully,
				ELIZA E. PARKINSON,
							Secretary.
	Beaver Feb. 23rd 1876.

	SUGAR HOUSE WARD SALT LAKE Co.
						March 3rd, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I enclose you a brief report of a meeting
of the Relief society of this ward, held
March 1st 1876, at the residence of Mr. Hy-
rum P. Trim. President Mrs. Sarah P. Gib-
son presiding.
	After singing and prayer the financial re-
port for the year 1875 was read. Much
good counsel was given, the sisters all feel-
ing desirous to do right and use their influ-
ence to help build up the Kingdom of God
on the earth.
	Donations for the year 1875; for Society
$48,53. Donated for the erection of a
house for the society, $584,20.
	With kind regards for the success of the
EXPONENT. I am yours affectionately,
				SARAH E. WHEELER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	155


"GROWING OLD."

I have watched the radiant coming
	Of the sun's unfettered rays,
Which with rich and glad effulgence
	Bathed the loveliest of days;
And at eve I saw their splendor
	Melting calmly into gold,
And I thought that nature's beauty
	Faded not in "growing old."

But a spectacle more touching
	Than the tints of eve impart,
Is the pleasant, peaceful twilight
	Of a manly, noble heart—
When the lofty aims of early days
	Their deeds of good have told,
And silver hairs life's sunset crown,
	Tell them of "growing old."

The spring is beautiful, indeed,
	With balmy air and showers,
The glad return of singing birds,
	The budding fruit and flowers;
But not until the roses fade,
	The leaves are changed to gold;
And the richest fruits of all the year
	Come when 'tis "growing old."

So when the flowers of youth are gone,
	And life's September's come,
If still there's sunshine in the heart
	There need be nought of gloom.
The retrospect of days well spent,
	And gifts improved tenfold,
Well may that heart be filled with peace,
	Happy in "growing old."
—Washington Sunday Herald.


[Column 1]
	EFFECTS OF SCENERY ON CHAR-
				ACTER.

WRITTEN FOR AND READ AT MISS. M. E.
COOK'S SCHOOL EXHIBITION, Feb. 26th '76.

	Any one who observes carefully the out-
ward impressions, which act upon individ-
uals, cannot but be aware of the marked in-
fluence which natural scenery exerts in
forming characteristics, and distinguishing
traits of individual nature. The stupendous
mountains, the beautiful landscape, the
charming lakes, and smooth wide spread-
ing plains all make their instinctive im-
pressions upon the mind, and direct the
thoughts through certain intricate channels,
of a nature and bearing assimilating to the
peculiar phase of life with which they
come in contact.
	Who that has ever looked upon the grand-
eur and sublimity of Niagara, stood in si-
lence and awe, and watched the foaming
waters as they flow ruthlessly over the aw-
ful precipice; the roaring and thundering of
the rapids, their green and purple waves
tumbling and whirling into frothy white,
could ever forget the impressions made at
the moment, and stamped irrevocably up-
on the mind.
	A season spent 'mid the romantic haunts
of nature upon the banks of the Hudson,
with its enchanting scenery, its beautiful
and artistic villas; or on the banks of the
world renowned Rhine, with its picturesque
cottages, interspersed with ancient ruins of
fortresses and castles, is not only an advan-
tage for the time, but the thoughts which
it originates, when recalled, purify and ele-
vate the mind and intuitively impress one's
life with lasting good.
	The simple Swiss peasant dwelling among
the snow-capped mountains, is, seemingly,
brought nearer to his God, by assimilation
to the heights by which he is surrounded.
The rugged life he leads, by contrast makes
the peace he enjoys so much the more pow-
erful, as the coming home at sunset, which
is the more appreciated, because of the
weary traveling required to reach it.
	Italy the land of poetry and song, with
its azure skies, its calm and placid lakes, its
famous and celebrated cities and villages,

[Column 2]
with their crumbling and tottering towers,
palaces and amphitheatres, gave to the
world a Raphael whose genius will live for-
ever, whose memory is immortal, whose
fame is imperishable.
	Germany, with its grandeur and magnifi-
cence of scenery, its beautiful winding riv-
ers upon whose banks many classical le-
gends originated, fostered and reared a
Humboldt who has made the world his
debtor by his discoveries, his explorations
and his scientific knowledge.
	Scotland whose wild and picturesque
scenery is celebrated in history and poetry,
gave to us a Burns, who possessed genius
peculiarly characteristic of his surroundings;
almost destitute of culture, living in a clay-
built hut, his mind conversant only with
the weird and fanciful imageries of Nature,
associated with its beautiful realities, he
blended his poems in unison with that of
his country, and through this channel to the
hearts of her people.
	Tennyson living at Somersby with its
quiet beauty seems to have been differently
affected for he often wrote in a weird and
imaginative strain, as his "Dying Swan"
and "Claribel," which are based upon shad-
ow; but, withal, he also has the power to
delineate real every day life which we see
in the "May Queen" and "Millers Daugh-
ter."
	In many of the poems of Elizabeth Brown-
ing we perceive the influence of English
life, under which she won her laurels; but
in beautiful Florence, under the soft azure
skies of classic Italy, were many of her best
productions drawn out; the land of genius
and inspiration, which ever seems to be-
stow additional honors upon those who have
already merited some.
	Willis on the banks of the Hudson;—is it
any wonder that he could pour forth such
sweet and touching words, living 'mid the
associations of "Idle Wild?" There he
could withdraw, and resting in the shadow
of a deep ravine, environed with trees
through whose clustering leaves the golden
sunshine shimmered like angel messengers
of light, breathing to him thoughts of beau-
ty, which he clothed in words to communi-
cate to us.
	Far famed Greece! Who shall say that
the grandeur and magnificence of her scen-
ery, the invigorating and bracing air of her
mountains, under whose shadow were reared
the world renowned warriors of history,
had no influence on the character of those
to whom she gave birth? Or that the beau-
tiful daughter of the sea, had no more
power to produce great men than the desert
wilds of Africa?
	Education and culture combined and har-
monizing with the scenery of nature pro-
duce still more powerful influences; and in
our enlightened country, every person has
at least the opportunity of so far improving,
as to be able to view nature through "Eyes
of Wisdom."
							A PUPIL.
[handwritten] Annie Wells


SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 17th 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have just been reading a piece entitled
"Affectation" in your most excellent and
instructive paper, which set me to thinking
and I felt I must commit some of my
thoughts to paper and send them to you.
	I do so enjoy your paper, and my only
regret is that I have not before appreciated
and taken it. I think every Latter-day
Saint should take the EXPONENT; it should
be read and studied more, instead of the
trashy papers which come from the outside


world. I have many times been asked by
Gentiles whom I have met, about my relig-
ion, and when they have brought up argu-
ments against our belief and practices, I
have not been able to refute them. But I
am now beginning to realize how necessary
it is, that our young people—young girls as
well as young men, for, if we are not called
upon to go on missions to foreign lands, we
have many opportunities for vindicating
the tenets of our church—how necessary it
is, I say, that we should study the principles
and doctrines in which we believe, and in-
stead of being so anxious to read the last
new novel, we should be enriching our
minds, and storing up useful knowledge for
the future time when we are called upon to
take the places of our older sisters who are
now at the head of our societies. And be-
sides we who are, and those who will some
time be the mothers of sons; can we teach
them aright; Can we instill good princi-
ples into their young minds; and bring
them up in such a manner that they will be
able to take their part in helping to bear off
the kingdom, when those who are now at
the head shall have passed behind the vail?
I am but a young mother, but I often think
that if I do not exert every nerve, and
watch and pray always, I cannot fulfill my
part, and when my children are grown, if
they are not worthy, there will be no place
for them in the Church of our Lord, and
they will look back to their childish days
and blame me, their mother, for not im-
planting the Gospel truths into their youth-
ful minds. Therefore, let us young sisters
quit all this light reading and attend our
meetings, where we will receive good in-
structions; let us improve every opportuni-
ty, read and study our Church Books, and
prepare ourselves to be worthy mothers to
the great and noble spirits, who are to come
forth in this last day and generation.
							LOUVINA.


For the EXPONENT.
		CONGRESS AND POLYGAMY.

	Since Congress has been working so hard
to do something towards abolishing polyg-
amy, it has caused me to reflect, and I think
if they knew that it only tended to strength-
en our faith, make us more zealous, and
bind us more closely together, instead of
feeling to give it up, they would surely
adopt some other method. But it is not for
polygamy alone that they hate us; when the
church was first organized they persecuted
us just as bitterly, even mobbing and ston-
ing the Elders who attempted to preach.
Their cry was then, "you believe in new
revelation;" but the words of our Savior to
his deciples fully explains it. "If ye were
of the world the world would love you &c."
	I do not feel one par[---] of anxiety as to
the result, for I think the Lord is able to
fight his own battles, and we need only be
true to ourselves and religion as Latter-day
Saints. It is the Lord and Congress for it.
	The Sisters of our Relief Society are very
busy just now making a carpet for our new
Tabernacle. It is quite an undertaking, as
it requires nearly four hundred yards, but
we have united our efforts and think we
can accomplish it by March. The Temple
looks beautiful in its pure white, at first the
plastering did not improve its appearance,
but it does now that it is finished, it will
look so cool in the summer. We have warm
delightful weather and dusty streets.
	Lest I weary you I will conclude by wish-
ing you continued success.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
							E. BENTLEY.
	ST. GEORGE, Feb. 21st, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	}Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
    Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1876.


[Column 1]
	UTAH AND WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	We have often heard the remark recently
that women thought they were going to revo-
lutionize society. Is there not an imperative
need of some powerful revolutionizing ele-
ment to renovate modern society? Who has
the audacity to say no? Every day there are
sickening reports of wickedness in high places,
of dishonest business transactions, of corrupt
practices. The prevailing fashions and cus-
toms of society among those who hold lofty
positions, and their individual anxiety for os-
tentatious display is calculated to engender
dishonesty and vice. They must live in a cer-
tain style, must appear abroad in suitable ap-
pointments, their wine, cigars, horses etc.
must be in accordance with their position, and
if their income is meagre, either the national
treasury must suffer or other dishonest means
or practices be resorted to. Can this last al-
ways? Will there not come a financial as well
as political crisis, unless some great revolution
transpires? If honest men possessing brains
and a moderate education are willing to be
governed by those destitute of honor and integ-
rity, it would seem women are not. Women
in the past, were not allowed to have any voice
in matters pertaining to the general welfare;
therefore they allowed men not only to make
their laws but to do their thinking for them.
But thanks to a broader education of heart and
brain, to a few brave women and some liberal-
minded men; one great radical change has been
affected in this respect, and intelligent educa-
ted women claim the God-given privilege of
doing their own thinking. If there are wo-
men who shrink from coming forward and
claiming the right of citizenship, it is only the
fault of long-continued custom and the inher-
ited prejudices imbibed from their ancestors,
and with which some are so thoroughly im-
bued that it will take time to eradicate it.
Could they become convinced of the great
good possible to be attained by universal Wo-
man's Suffrage, how gladly would they come
to the rescue. Many of the terrible evils
that now pervade society would be moderated
to a wonderful degree, if women could assist
in making and enforcing the laws. Men
guilty of heinous crimes against moral de-
cency would not walk boldly forth among the
pure and virtuous, if women were allowed a
voice in their judgment. They too would
share in the ignominy and disgrace of their
victims. Their sins would find them out.
	Would there have been such a disgraceful of-
fense against order and good behavior at the
Republican convention in this city last week
if women had formed part of that body? Em-
phatically no! They could not have defied
the laws of good breeding as they did, had

[Column 2]
there been as there should be at all conventions
for the public weal, ladies present.
	What do those men who sat in that august
assembly know of the wants of the people of
Utah? How are they representatives of the
people? What do they know of the rights or
wrongs of this community? How long have
they been here, and for what object did they
come? To regenerate the people of Utah? So
report says. "God save the mark!" Regenera-
tors who cannot even treat each other with
common courtesy in a public convention!
	The conventions of women differ entirely in
tone and character from this.
	We should like to ask some of these "honora-
ble gentlemen" what they know about the set-
tlement of this Territory. If they would like
to settle a desert, and then be invaded by dis-
interested persons, who would usurp their
rights, seek to destroy the institutions they
had sought for years, with time and capital, to
establish, endured privations, toil and untold
sufferings, to found a system by which they
and their children might be benefitted, and
their condition improved.
	There are women in Utah before whose elo-
quence these would-be delegates would stand
appalled were they to tell them of their suffer-
ings when driven into the wilderness. And
now they would rob them of their dearly
bought freedom, political, social, and religious
right. Let such men beware. They cannot
do it with impunity. There is another side to
this question, and there are women who know
how to defend it. "Vengeance is mine, saith
the Lord, and I will repay."
	And here we would suggest that many thanks
are due from the women of this Territory to
those brave and valiant ladies who so faithful-
ly plead the cause of Woman Suffrage for Utah,
in the halls of the National Capitol.
	We know whereof we speak. We came to
this country when it was a barren wilderness;
having the terrors of the desert, the Indians,
buffaloes, and wolves to encounter. Shame
on the men who would seek to deprive a people
of the rights they have so dearly bought. The
subject is exhaustless.
	Even supposing the people held erroneous
religious views, they are entitled to the privil-
ege of citizenship by every right of humanity.
	We have no hesitation in saying there is a
future for Utah and her people of which this
nation will yet be proud.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	SEVERAL VALUABLE communications are
laid over until next issue for want of space,
also items of home affairs worthy of note.

	DIED IN the 20th Ward of Salt Lake City,
of disease of the heart and dropsy, Petrea Elis-
ebeth Mattea Madsen Leonard. Born in Den-
mark March 14th 1820. Baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
—1854. Emigrated to Utah in 1855—Mar-
ried to Bradford Leonard Feb. 1858, died in
Salt Lake City on the 16th of Feb. 1876.
	Deceased leaves a daughter, brother and sis-
ter to mourn her loss, but they rejoice that she
endured faithful through her many trials in
life, and died in hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion.

	DIED AT Pine Canyon Tooele Co.,. January
23rd 1875, of inflammation of the stomach Mar-
tha S. Smith, daughter of Moses and Isabella
Martin and wife of Adam G. Smith. Deceased
was born in Alton, Madison Co., Illinois, Aug.
20, 1852. She was a kind mother, a loving sister;
an affectionate daughter, and an amiable wife.


She leaves a husband and one child; she was
one of the first in the ward to go and be re-
baptized, and was a faithful member of the
Retrenchment Society and filled the office of
Treasurer. Her last words, after she had call-
ed her husband, father and mother, brothers
and sisters together and kissed them, were for
them not to grieve for she was going just a 
little before them; she then asked for her little
boy, kissed him and breathed her last, just as
if she had been going to sleep.

	WE INVITE the attention of our readers to
the new advertisement of our artist friend C.
R. Savage. His new gallery is without doubt
the finest in the Rocky Mountain region—
(It is an institution springing from his
own individual energy, employing in all
seven persons besides himself, four gentle-
men and three lladies. The details of photo-
graphy have no stronger devotees than the
attachees of his establishment; some are busy
printing the photographs by the solar ray, oth-
ers are deftly putting on the finishing touches.)
His views are scattered all over the globe, and
are highly spoken of as artistic productions.
In looking at a large show case on the ground
floor, we thought they were excellent; the ton-
ing, lighting and posing compare very favora-
bly with the best imported specimens. In fact,
they are hard to beat. In connection with, and
forming a part of the business, is the manufac-
ture of picture frames, presided over by Os-
borne Angell. Piles of molding in all styles,
await his saw and plane. The operating room
has for its presiding genius N. Howarth, Esq.,
patience must be observed by a photogroph
operator, and in this he excells. The waiting
room is in charge of Miss Lis[-]dor Williams.
In fact everything has been done to render thegallery first-class in all its appointments. Mr.
S. assures us that new attractions will be added
as fast as possible. We are proud to point to
the fact that in the matter of art, Utah is not
behind any of the Territories. Our citizens
cannot do better than visit the gallery and see
if our conclusions are not well founded. We
wish him, and all others who seek to improve,
abu[--]dant success.


A TALK WITH THE GIRLS.

MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENDS:
	Wishing to have a little chat with you, or
rather to make a few remarks, which I hope
will be of some benefit, I will do so through
the columns of the EXPONENT. If this valua-
ble paper is as universally read by the ladies of
this community as it deserves, I have no doubt
but the few lines I may write, will receive
some little attention, and I h[-]mbly trust they
will answer the purpose for which they were
written.
	I wish to speak of facts as they exist, and try
and convince, some of you at least, of the folly
of acting as many of our girls do.
	Now girls you mus'n't take offence at any-
thing I may say, as it is but a short time since
I was a young girl myself, and I am still a
young woman; nevertheless I feel better
able to understand, and regret the follies of
girlhood, than I did a few years ago.
	Oh, how vain the regrets which we feel when
we arrive at an age of more mature judgment,
for the misspent hours, for the opportunities of
doing good to others, and of storing our minds
with useful knowledge, against the wintry
time of age, which some of us have almost en-
tirely neglected. Though we are apt to be
guilty, all through life, of spending our lives
in useless regrets, instead of profiting by past
experience and improving the present.


[COLUMN 1]

	Now my young friends is the time for action,
let us never put off till to-morrow, what should
be done to-day; let us not neglect to speak a
cheering word, or perform an act of kindness
when opportunity affords, for if we neglect it
to-day, we will not perceive it so easily to-
morrow, for as our school books tell us, "Pro-
crastination is the thief of time." Let me ad-
vise you, instead of going to from one to six
dances in a week, to spend the time thus em-
ployed in attending evening schools, lectures,
etc., or in some way that will tend to make you
useful members of society, and which will pre-
pare you to fill with honor the positions of
wives and mothers; as these are, when properly
understood, and appreciated and lived up to,
the highest and most glorious to which we can
attain in social position, in this world.
	These are subjects, which as girls, we treat
far too lightly, we do not bestow upon them
the sober thought and reflection which we
should Just think girls, there are, no doubt
scores of women in the world who would, could
they understand it, willingly sacrifice wealth
and station for the privilege which we, all of us
enjoy, if we live for it, namely to become the
honored and beloved wife, of an honorable, vir-
tuous, and affectionate man.
	I do not wish you to understand that I advo-
cate the principle of putting "old heads on
young shoulders." I firmly believe that recre-
ation and enjoyment are necessary to the
young, and that if they are so restricted that
they have no means of enjoying themselves
and satisfying the natural craving for amuse-
ment, while under the control of parents or
guardians, they, in many cases, run to the ex-
treme when they have the opportunity. But
I do not believe there are many of our parents
who use undue strictness with their children;
though we may feel at the time that we do not
have the liberty that we should, or that some
of our friends have, we will yet feel to thank
them for their watchful care, and good advice.
Remember, girls, the old and true saying, "as
the twig is bent, so the tree inclineth," and if
we are careful observers of human nature, we
must see proofs of this every day. Childhood
and youth are the periods when our characters
are formed; how careful should we then be in
the forming of them; we should avoid all com-
pany which will not have a tendency to ele-
vate and refine our minds, and purify our ideas,
unless we can exert an influence over them for
good, and bring them up to a higher standard
instead of ourselves declining to a lower. How
many of you sensible girls, after sober reflect-
ion, would wish to imitate those foolish girls
who think, to be seen, they must constantly be
heard, who push themselves forward to attract
the attention of the opposite sex. I would say
to them that it is not always the gayest flower
which is most prized; and most of the admira-
tion you do receive is only momentary, and
seldom from those possessing good taste and
sound judgment. It is the real virtues that
girls possess which gain the confidence and
esteem of good men; and those not attracted
by a modest, retiring nature, a sweet disposi-
tion and good moral character, are not worth
having.
	Again I would say, do not seek enjoyment
at the expense or injury of others, nor spend
all your precious time in seeking after that
which will not profit you, either now or in af-
ter years. Do not be in too great a hurry to
get married; do not take any one who offers
himself because he may promise all sorts of im-
possible things—offering you his eternal and
undying affection, when perhaps he is not ca-
pable of so pure a sentiment, as true, honora-
ble love. But rather prepare yourselves to ap-

[COLUMN 2]

preciate a good husband when you shall get
one.
	Another very important item, is to get an
understanding of human nature, so as to be
able to distinguish the REAL from the COUNTER-
FEIT, as in outward appearance they sometimes
so nearly resemble each other, that we should
constantly remember that "All is not gold that
glitters."
	Dear Editor, with these remarks, which I
fear are very scattering, I subscribe myself
your friend.
	KATE
St. George, Washington Co.
	Feb. 26th, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	157.


LETTERS.

		COUNCIL BLUFFS, March 4th, 1876.
EDITOR WOMANS EXPONENT:
	The women of Utah and their condition, are
topics that seem to greatly interest the people
East of that point, if I may judge from the
very many questions that are propounded as
soon as it is known that one is from Utah.
The general impression is, that you are abused,
downtrodden and degraded; that the elective
franchise granted you, was only a blind to de-
ceive the outside world, and that you are to all
intents and purposes slaves. I have taken
great pleasure in defending you and explain-
ing your true position socially, and morally and
really believe I have become more deeply in
love than ever with my subject. The women
of Utah must be known to be appreciated and
I feel satisfied that the time is not far distant
when the downtrodden women of monogamic
Christianity will be proud of the association of
their Mormon sisters.
	You have need only to glance casually at
the Christian world to discover that their sys-
tems are a decided failure, and all attempts by
them at this late day to ameliorate the condi-
tion of humanity signally fail, also, socially,
morally, physically, religiously and politically.
The prospect is gloomy indeed and I am satis-
fied that nothing short of God can grasp the
the evils of the age, and provide the necessary
remedies. But as He is altogether ignored by
them there is a terrible future and that too
not very far off.
	Let the women of Utah arouse themselves,
lay aside all follies, pride and vanity, and sanct-
ify themselves before God, to prepare to
stand in their place, to receive the thousands
of their own sex, who will yet come and be
willing to accept the salvation that these de-
spised people have to offer, for if the power to
save is not with the Latter-day Saints, it is 
not on earth.
							J. E. T.


SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 28th 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:

	As I am a little girl I know that I cannot in-
struct anybody and yet I want to tell what I
am thankful for, and what we all ought to be
grateful for.  In the first place we should be
thankful for having a Heavenly Father who
has given us life and placed us here on earth to
gain an exaltation for ourselves, and to have
the privilege of having the Gospel preached to
us by the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and of reading holy
books, and how Christ came on this earth
teaching unto the multitudes by pa[-]ables and 
healing all manner of sickness.
	And we should be thankful that we can
serve God, and that he has given us good par-
ents, food to eat, water to drink, and clothes
to wear; and that we have trials and tribula-


tions in this world, so we can gain our crown
in the next world if we are worthy of it; and
that we can build temples unto the Lord, and
can be baptized for the remission of our sins,
that we can have oil to heal the sick, in
faith, and holy brethren to administer these
ordinances and to teach the principles of the
Gospel and showing us how to gain our
salvation, that we can work for our Savior and
help bring His children into the kingdom of 
heaven, for Christ said "suffer litttle children
to come unto me, for such is the kingdom of
Heaven."
	We ought to appreciate our nice homes and 
comfortable beds to sleep in, and fires to warm
us; and we ought to be thankful that if we
pray for faith we may have it, and believe that
we will have it, so that if we are sick and the
Elders lay their hands upon our heads we will
be healed, but without faith we could not get
well. And we should be grateful that we have
the sun to give us light and warmth by day,
and the stars and moon to give light by night,
and herbs, and fruits, and plants for our use;
that He has given us rain so they might live.
We ought to be grateful for these things and a
great many more. And I hope we all will.
						A LITTLE GIRL.


ORIGINAL EQUALITY OF WOMEN.

	A curious craniological fact is that the fe-
male skulls from the earliest sepultures do
not differ in capacity from the cotemporary
male skulls to the same extent which crania
of the two sexes generally differ from one
another at the present day. It must.
however, be borne in mind that in those
early times there was a greater struggle for
existence, and that the principle of the di-
vision of labor was not carried out to a
large extent, so that the tendencies to a
differentiation in the characteristics of the
two sexes was less marked than in modern
times.—Woman's Journal.


POOR, OLD, AND A WOMAN.

	"Mrs. Margaret Howard, a widow, aged
80, died on her way to St. Peter's Hospital,
yesterday, of neglect and hunger. It is al-
leged that she was turned out of doors by a 
relative in Columbia Street, was refused ad-
mittance to some of her children's houses,
and was turned into the street to die. She
was found lying upon the sidewalk by Of-
ficer O'Brien."
	The above is cut from the Brooklyn items
of the New York Daily Tribune, of the 28th
ult. She was guilty of three great offences
—she was poor, old, and a woman.—Wo-
man's Journal.


Stewed Oysters.—Strain off all the oyster li-
quor and then add half as much water as you have
oysters. Add a saltspoonful of salt, for each pint
of oysters, and half as much pepper; and when
that begins to simmer; add half a teacupful of
milk for each pint of oysters. When the edges
being to ruffle add some butter, and do not let
them stand but serve immediately. Oysters should
not simmer any more than five minutes on the
whole. When cooked too long, they become hard,
dark and tasteless.


Fried Oysters.—Lay them on a cloth to absorb
the liquor; then dip first in beaten egg and after-
ward in powdered cracker, and fry in hot lard or
butter to a light brown. If fresh lard is used,
put in a little salt. Cook quickly in very hot fat,
or they will absorb too much grease.


158		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TENNYSON'S SUMMER HOME.

	I sat upon a projecting rock on the Isle of
Tintagel, hundreds of feet above the sea,
which was rolling in upon the beach below
with wayward indolence. Close by rose the
tall cliffs of the Cornish coast, with their 
rock-ribbed sides.
	The ruins of the castle, with its decayed
and tottering stones, raise again, in imagin-
tion, in all of its barbaric splendor; tower
and battlements glistened with the spears
of armed men; the rattling of arms and 
tramp of steeds were heard coming down
the ravine—a goodly company of brave
knights and fair ladies—at their head, he,
Authur, their king, and riding by his side,
on her snow white palfrey, the sweet but
faithless Guinevere, and behind them, fore-
most among the train, Lancelot. With
merry laughter and many a courtly jest,
they passed over the bridge (which now the
waves of the Atlantic have swept away,
leaving but a few rough stones) into the
castle.
	My day dream was suddenly interrupted
by discovering a stranger near me.
	I arose from my seat and approached him.
It was one of those wild solitudes, far away
from any human habitation, where you
would always forget the formalities of life,
and address any stranger you might hap-
pen to meet. Before I reached him, I
knew, although I had never looked upon
his face before, that I stood in the presence
of the great magician who had peopled the
ruins and the solitude around me with
bright visions.
	It was the poet Tennyson; the face and
figure that I had so often seen pictured
could not be mistaken. Like most men of
mark he had a striking appearance, and
wherever you met him, you would at once
set him down as a man of no ordinary char-
acter; tall, but looking taller than he really
was on account of his spare frame; a sallow
complexion, with keen dark eyes and shag-
gy eyebrows, unshaven, with a long beard
and mustache turning iron gray, and long
hair of the same color falling to his shoul-
ders, he had generally an unkempt appear-
ance; his dress did not appear to have been
made by a fashionable tailor, and it looked
as if some years had elapsed since it was
first worn; in his mouth he had a short
black pipe, which he was smoking. Not
the kind of man the reader would imagine
wrote "Come into the Garden, Maud."
	I first accosted him, saying:—
	"I believe I have the honor of speaking
to Mr. Tennyson?"
	In reply he stiffly bowed his head, some-
what surlily, I thought.
	I told him who I was, and that I had come
to Tintagel to look upon the scenes he had
made so familiar to readers of English liter-
ature. He commenced asking me ques-
tions, mostly concerning the United States,
its literature, and the English authors that
were mostly read there. He expressed a
great admiration for Longfellow, whom he
knew personally. He then pointed out var-
ious objects of interest that had escaped my
notice among the ruins of the castle, on the
island and the shore, among others King
Arthur's drinking cup, a huge piece of rock
hollowed out into the shape of a bowl, and
large enough to hold the contents of a bar-
rel; and a small chapel, the foundation of
which can be traced, and in which the alter
stone, a solid piece of hewn rock, still re-
mains perfect.
	The island is but a few hundred yards in
diameter. It is almost circular, and rises
out of the sea, with abrupt, precipitious
sides, at least two hundred feet high. On

[Column 2]
the nearest point of the mainland a consid-
erable portion of the ruins of the castle are
to be found. The poet stated that he be-
lieved that the island had been originally
connected with the mainland by a nar-
row isthmus that the sea had washed away,
or else that a bridge had been built over,
which had shared the same fate. There
were traces of masonry on both sides, and
at low tide you can still walk across. We
walked up the ravine which leads down to
the sea, into the high lane, and he pointed
out to me the supposed field of Camelot,
the scene of the King's last struggle.
	"There," said he, "is a panorama. Every
spot on which your eye rests has some histori-
cal interest." It had none other, for the coun-
try was as bleak and wild as can be imag-
ined, with scarcely any vegetation. Away
north was Launceston, to whose abbey the 
faithless Guinevere retired and became its
Lady Abbess. A few miles away was the
little town of Camelford (the Camelot), and
yonder a small lake that might have served
for the burial place of "Excalibar."
	We walked over to the small village of
Tintagel, a dreary looking place of one
street, containg a few houses of the poorer
class, a small inn and one handsome house,
which was the summer residence of Mr.
Scott, then the editor of the Saturday Re-
view. The place could have but two
charms—its historic associations and its sol-
itude. Both are evidently attractions to
the poet laureate, for he frequently spends
weeks at the place, roaming around the
wild coast scenery alone, dreaming of the
heroes that once fought and did deeds of
daring upon its now desolate shores, and
framing other poetic stories to be added to
the Idyls of the King.—The North.


[For the EXPONENT.
			PERSEVERANCE.

	Perseverance is a subject of vital import-
ance to every thinking mind, there is noth-
ing in fact, could be accomplished success-
fully without it. No mercantile business
could succeed without this principle and ex-
actness.
	The lad who is apprenticed to learn a
useful trade would fail without it, but if he
perseveres and accomplishes the purpose his
parents or guardians have desired, and he
becomes complete master of his trade or
profession his energy and perseverance urg-
es him onward and he aims to excel in
whatever he does. The student who wish-
es to acquire a knowledge of any study or
to learn foreign languages so that he may
speak with fluency, or write them correctly,
must exercise his faculties or fail to accom-
plish that which he desires. It gives a force
and energy to every action of our lives
whether for good or evil.
	Without this great principle our beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith would have failed to
accomplish his mission in bringing forth the
record of the ancient inhabitants of this
continent, and establishing the Kingdom of
God upon the earth, but he persevered even
unto death, and succeeded in accomplishing
the work he was destined to perform.
	Were it not for this great and grand at-
tribute the apostles would have failed to
plant the principles of truth, and open the
door of the Kingdom of God in our own
native land and in the different nations of
the earth, but they persevered with all their
might, mind and strength, both by day and
by night to accomplish the work the Lord
required at their hands, and therefore they
succeeded; and we are this day witnesses to
this great fact, as also are thousands now


rejoicing in the light of the gospel and the
blessings of the Holy Priesthood.
	Through perseverance the pioneers of this
country overcame every difficulty, subdued
the sterility of the country and the Lord
has smiled upon His people, and crowned
the persevering labors of His servants with
success, in causing the earth to bring forth
in rich abundance, and thus are we sustain-
ed.
	Without perseverance we cannot make
our Centennial Territorial Fair a success;
and it should be our earnest desire, in fact
it is a duty incumbent on each of us to take
a lively interest in assisting to produce
something that will add to its advancement;
we are all endowed with talents that with-
out perseverance would lay dormant.
	Without this faculty, and the spirit of
energy we can never attain celestial glory
and exaltation, for the Scriptures tell us that
they who overcome will inherit these bless-
ings; and if we persevere every day of our
lives to overcome our sins and follies, temp-
tations and weaknesses, then we may ulti-
mately be found worthy through the grace
of God, having become sanctified and puri-
fied through obedience to the Gospel of our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and become
heirs of salvation through perseverance and
endurance.
					E. J. MATHEWS.
	20th Ward, S. L. City.


MISCELLANEOUS

	A GENTLEMEN, who was recently mar-
ried, said to the officiating clergyman (a
confirmed wit) in bad grammer: "I think I
have done wise."—"Yes," replied the oth-
er, undoubtedly you have done wise, or
otherwise!"

	THE MODEL MAID-OF-ALL-WORK.—Her
age is fourteen. Her arms are bare and her
feet slip-shod. Her curls are rarely out of
paper. She sports a clean apron on the Sun-
day, about tea-time. It is a mystery where
she sleeps; some say the kitchen, in one of
the large drawers; and others declare she
has a turn-up bed in the hall clock; but it is
not known for positive whether she goes to
bed at all. She has a wonderful affection
for the cat. Everything that is missed, or
lost, or broken, or not eaten, she gives un-
hesitatingly to him. She is not fond of the
drawing-room, but has a good natured par-
tiality for the garret, who sings funny
songs, and gives her occasionally an order
for the play. She takes her dinner whilst
washing the dishes, and never gets her
breakfast till all the floors are done with the
one tea pot. She tries very hard to answer
five bells at once, and in despair answers
none. She always forgets the mustard, and
prefers blowing the fire with her mouth in-
stead of the bellows. Her hands will not bear
minute inspection; and no wonder, for she
is cleaning boots, or washing, or cooking
dinners all the day long. She carries coals
in a dust-pan, hands bread on a fork, and
wipes plates on her apron. She is abused
by everybody, and never gets a holiday.
She only knows it is Sunday by the lodgers.
stopping in bed later than usual, and hav-
ing twice as many dinners to cook. She is
never allowed to go out, excepting to fetch
beer and tobacco. She hears complaints
without a murmur, and listens to jokes with-
out a smile. She gets six pounds a year, 
and is expected to wait on about twenty
persons, to do the work of five servants, to
love all the children in the house, and to be
honest for the money.


APPELLES.—Alexander went to see his
portrait at Ephesus, painted by Apelles;
but did not commend the piece as it deserv-
ed. A horse was introduced, and neighed
to the horse in the picture as if it were a
living one. "My Prince," said Apelles,
"the horse seems to be a better connoisseur
than yourself."

	ANECDOTE OF FOOTE THE COMEDIAN.—
Foote, traveling in the west of England,
dined one day at an inn. When the cloth
was removed the landlord asked him how
he liked his fare? "I have dined as well as
any man in England," said Foote.—"Ex-
cept Mr. Mayor," cried the landlord.—"I
do not except anybody whatever," said he.
—"But you must," bawled the host. "I
won't."—"You must." At length the strife
ended by the landlord (who was a petty
magistrate) taking Foote before the Mayor,
who observed that it had been customary
in that town for a great number of years al-
ways to except the mayor, and accordingly
fined him a shilling for not conforming to
this ancient custom. Upon this decision
Foote paid the shilling, at the same time ob-
serving that he thought the landlord the
greatest fool in Christendom—Except Mr.
Mayor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	A Ladies' Debating Club has been started
in London......The London University has
resolved in favor of conferring degrees up-
on women......The Sultan of Turkey is build-
ing a mosque, to cost when finished $10,000
......New Jersey has voted $120,000 in all to
the Centennial......Brown paper blankets
are now manufactured extensively in Eng-
land, and used on the beds of the poor......
A paragraph history of the American Rev-
olution will be a Centennial publication by
Robert Brothers of Boston......The second
session of the Congress of Orientalists at
Marseilles will take place from the 4th to
the 10th of Oct. next under the presidency
of M. I. Abbi F. Tonongi......Gladstone and
the Duke Argyle, each have articles in the
March number of the Cotemporary Review.
...50,000 soldiers will go to Cuba to quell the
insurrection.........Russia has incorporated
Khokand among her possessions, General
Scoreloff has been appointed Governor of
the new province, it is named Ferghan......
Accounts of the devastation from the inun-
dations in Hungary are terrible; 12,000 out
of 18,000 inhabitants of Althorer are home-
less......The Cincinnatti Carnival, or Mardi-
Gras Festival, proved a complete success; it
is said to have been finer than any display
in the South.
			PERSONAL.
	Augusta Evans is said to have received
from Carleton the publisher $100,000 in 8
years......Feb. 22nd was the 144th anniver-
sary of the birth of Washington......Lord
Stratford de Radcliffe, 88 years old, has just
written a play called "Alfred the Great at
Athelney"......Madame Neilson is going
the round of Europe; her tour including
Holland, Germany and France; it is said
her voice is declining in beauty and power. 
......Queen Victoria recently sent twenty
brace of pheasants to King's College Hos-
pital and a similar present to other hospitals
......Mme. Rosa Caillag, once a famous con-
tralto singer, has lately been made professor
in the Conservatory of Music at Vienna......
Edward King's sketches of French political
leaders will be published immediately by
Putnam and Sons in their "Brief Biogra-
phies"......C. A. Freeman's "History of the


Norman Conquest" is now about to be pub-
lished......Mrs. Charles Kingsley will soon
publish a memoir of her husband, with
large selections from his correspondence.


THE CULTIVATION OF THE HOME.

	Almost all men have an instinctive re-
spect if not love for the mere words home
and mother, but it rests with women to lift
them up out of the region of simple ab-
straction, vitalize them and render them
significant of all that fulness of peace and
rest and joy and satisfaction which they do
mean to those who have known the blessed
realities of which they are the weak repre-
sentatives. Patience and self-denial are
needed, for few people know what is good
for them morally, any more than they do
physically; but the working out of a plain
duty always pays in the end—pays! that is,
indeed, a poor and unworthy name for it—
it yields infinite satisfaction and comfort,
while merely consulting one's own wishes
and inclinations fail signally and inevitably
to yield even the small return of individual
satisfaction and enjoyment. Women have
no conception of the power for good or for
evil which they hold in their hands, by the
proper growth and cultivation of the home.
	Here the power of the woman, by its ju-
dicious exercise, can indeed in time, if not
at first, become supreme. Lawless instincts
can be checked, order, which is heaven's
first law, encouraged, and an example of
grace, gentleness and refinement set, which
lays the foundation for the finest manners
of the most cultivated people in the world.
Women are natural conservators; men look
to them to formulate and preserve these
domestic and social amenities which beautify
existence and render the neglect of the
world or the kicks and scorns of fortune
more endurable. But they can do more
than this; they can make home-life an edu-
cation for the heart, a purifier of the mind,
at once a solace and a stimulus to the hap-
py participants, as it is the basis of good
government and highest incentive to patri-
otic endeavor. The homes of a people are
an index to the character of a community.
—Chronicle.


For the EXPONENT.
		ENCOURAGFMENT.

	I thought I would say a few words to the
Retrenchment girls about writing to the
EXPONENT. I know that many of them
though they cannot express their feelings
in their meetings could do so on paper. A
great many think they are not capable of
writing for a paper, they think it is above
their abilities. I know that we have in our
Retrenchment Associations girls who have
ideas and sentiments which would benefit
others. It only requires careful thought
and calm reflection, and any girl who loves
her religion and possesses purity of heart,
would at least benefit herself, and improve
mind.
	I saw a piece in the EXPONENT a few
months ago from a little girl ten years old.
I think it is an indication of courage and of
an earnest desire to improve, when one so
young undertakes that which we that are
older feel our incompetency to do; but I
would not be without the Exponent for
anything, and after I have read it I send it
to Scotland, where it is read with great in-
terest and pleasure. May God bless us, and
prosper us in every good wish is the desire
of your sister in the Gospel,
					Sarah McKean.
	S. L. City, Jan. 4th, 1875.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. ANTOINETTE Brown Blackwell is
writing a book called "The Physical Basis of
immortality." It is to be offered to the
Ladies' Department of the Centennial.
	MISS CELIA Elizabeth Harris, of Nebras-
ka, a native of South Bend, Ind., leads the
medical class of Boston University, which
graduated Wednesday, March 1st. 
	EX. EMPRESS EUGENIE lives in a plain
and unpretending manner at Chiselhurst;
the late Emperor's place at table is daily
decked with a bunch of fresh violets.
	MARY NORTON, about 1669, gave the land
on which the old South Church of Boston
stands, "for the erecting of a house for their
assembling themselves together to worship
God and for no other intent, use or purpose
whatever." 
	JENNIE JUNE writes concerning Miss
Alcott that she is not small, as the impres-
sion which her books give, but tall, graceful
and charming in appearance, utterly free
from nonsense, shams and pretences, a quick
shrewd and intelligent observer, and ex-
tremely kind and loving to children, who
in turn adore her.
	MISS LUCY Hale, the oldest inhabitant of
Plymouth, Mass., died on the 5th of Febru-
ary, in the 99th year of her age; she leaves
a brother and sister whose ages are respect-
ively 93 and 95 years. Until within a few
days previous to her death, when she had a
fall, she retained possession of her faculties
to a wonderful degree.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Broiled Ham.—Cut in thin slices and soak fif-
teen minutes in hot water. Pour off this and
soak again as long. Wipe dry and broil over a
quick fire, and then pepper it. Ham that is al-
ready cooked rare is the best for broiling.
	Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb.—Chop three ta-
ble-spoonfuls of green mint, and add a heaping
tablespoonful of sugar, and half a coffee-cup of
vinegar. Stir them while heating, and cool before
using.
	Egg Omelet.—Beat the yolks of six eggs, and
add a cup of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, and
a pinch of pepper. Pour into hot fat, and cook it
till just stiffened. Turn it on a platter brown side
uppermost. Some add minced cooked ham, oth-
ers put in chopped cauliflower or asparagus cooked
and cold.
	Drawn Butter.—Take six tablespoonfuls of but-
ter, half a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of
flour or of fine bread crumbs worked into the but-
ter and one tea-cup of hot water. Heat very hot
but do not let it boil. Two hard-boiled and chop-
ped eggs improve it very much. For fish add a
tablespoonful of vinegar and chopped caper or
green nasturtion seeds.
	Salad Dressing.—Mash fine two boiled potatoes
and add a teaspoonful of mustard, two of salt,
four of sweet oil, three of sharp vinegar, and the
yelks of two well boiled eggs rubbed fine. Mix
first the egg and potatoes, add the mustard and
salt, gradually mix in the oil stirring vigorously
the while. Stir in the vinegar last. Melted but-
ter may be used in the place of sweet oil. The
more a salad dressing is stirred the better it will
be.


SENSE shines with a double lustre when
it is set in humanity.
	AN able and yet a humble man is a jewel
worth a kingdom.—William Penn.


160		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRITE TAUNT.

	One of the most plausible excuses that
men make for opposing woman's enfran-
chisement is, that the women themselves
do not want to vote. This is usually sup-
plemented by the assertion that when wo-
men want the ballot they will have it. Now,
while it is true that a large number of
women — a number, however, growing
smaller each year—do not interest them-
selves in anything of a more public nature
than neighborhood gossip, it is also true
that the masses of intelligent, educated wo-
men do desire the ballot and back this de-
sire by reasons of sufficient cogency to en-
title them to a hearing in the councils of
State and nation. Whence come the nu-
merously signed petitions that year after
year go up to the Legislatures of the dif-
ferent States, if women do not care for
citizens' privileges? Whence the letters
that not unfrequently accompany them,
fraught with such a deep and all pervading
interest in the cause of equal rights? The
signers of these petitions, the authors of
these letters, are not lecturers, nor writers,
nor editors; nor yet are they women, as is
often charged, who have a perpetual quarrel
with nature because they are not men.
They belong usually to the middle walks of
life, and are earnest but silent laborers in
humanity's vineyard. But as the coral in-
sect silently and out of sight builds up the
islands of the ocean, so are these quiet
workers building up the public sentiment
that will one day give to woman her right-
ful share in framing the laws that govern
her. 
	Women whose daily toil earns daily
bread; women who labor year after year
with never a dollar they can call their own,
servants in all things but salary; women
who labor in fetters, vainly seeking to ac-
complish that, which were justice done they
could accomplish with ease—these are they 
who work with what strength they have
and wait with what patience they can com-
mand, while men in high places answer
their prayers for redress with contempt,
derision, or indifference, and disregarding
their appeals, say, "when women care for
the ballot they shall have it."
	But despite all opposition, the indications
are constantly showing how steadily the
barriers are giving way which shut women
from a field of usefulness, which, notwith-
standing all that may be urged to the con-
trary, the best, purest and truest women of
the nation long to enter.—New North West.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	In the last number of the Exponent, there ap-
peared under the head of "Hygienic Notes," one
note in particular that interested me much. It
treated of the "Power of the hands." I hope all
mothers will read it, for I am quite certain it is a
great fact. And now I want to give an excellent
remedy for
	Ear-ache.—I remember when I was a little girl
of having the ear-ache very severely one night, and
my mother who was sleeping beside me was awak-
ened with my first cry of pain. She did not get
up and make a fire and dose me with bitter stuffs
for my cold, and bundle my head up in heated
flannel. But she put the bed-clothes which I had
thrown off a little more closely around me, took
both my hands in one of hers, and placing her
other hand, soft and warm, over one side of my
face and one ear, she applied her lips to the other
ear—the one that ached. Taking care to draw
her breath through the nostrils, she emitted it
slowly into my ear. I was soon asleep, forgetful
of all distress. I have often relieved my child of


the same trouble in the same way: I suppose the
warm breath entering the ear has the same effect
to soften the hardened wax, that dropping in warm
oil or glycerine and water has. I believe that of-
ten the simplest and first thought of means, are
the most efficacious and desirable remedies.
										LEAL.


FLOWERS.

	The grandest of heroic deeds are those,
which are performsd within four walls and
in domestic privacy.—Richter.
	THE strength of a nation, is in the intel-
ligent and well-ordered homes of the peo-
ple.—Mrs. Sigourney.
	SOCRATES being asked the way to honest
fame, said "study to be what you wish to
seem."—John Bate.
	IT is when the hour of conflict is over,
that history comes to a right understanding
of the strife, and is ready to exclaim; Lo
God is here, and we knew it now.—Bancroft.


MRS. M. S. BENSON
  Has had 25 years experience as an Accoucher and Her-
  balist. She makes a specialty of Female Comlaints, and
       of Fits.  Office and residence of Morris' corner, one
           block south of the Theatre on the State Road.

					THE FINE ARTS.
           The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
        Gallery, the finest in the West.
           We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
        trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
        ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
        the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
        ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
       prices are put at living rates.	
           We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
        are determined to execl in all we do.
            A full assortment of Day and Sunday School prizes
        kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of al kinds
        on hand.
	      Send your orders to			C. R. SAVAGE,
							Salt Lake City, Utah. 

				Now Receiving, at
				      TEASDEL'S,
      The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
 Flowers, &c.
      Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
			S. P. TEASDEL, Eagles House. 

				 F. AUERBACH & BRO,
                55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
					     - : 0 : -
                     Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
                                 Staple and Fancy
                                    DRY GOODS,
 Milinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
   Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
      and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                            Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
    ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
    the Old Fashioned House. 

			    HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
           Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
            doors below Walker House, and examine our
               goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
                  take pleasure in making to order, such
                        brushes as we have not on hand.
							Wm. H. MILES, Supt. 

				LITTLE & ROUNDY,
                    Wholesale and Retail dealers in
                    Crockery, China and Glassware,
                 	LE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
                                23, MAIN STREET. 

				MITCHELL & JAMES,
                  Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
                                     AGENTS FOR
       RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
                    Pumps Repaired on short notice.
       Orders from the country promptly responded to.
       Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

					MILLINERY.
				     MRS C. E. DYE,
        Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
   for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
     commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
 Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
    Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times. 

					Z. C. M. I. 
                       Wholesale and Retail Dealing
                                   in all kinds of
              DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
                   HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
                     GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
                        STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
                  AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c,

				TO THE LADIES! 
			      TAYLOR & CUTLER
  Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
          all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
            GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and a full stock
             of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c, which we
                          are selling very cheaply. 

				 THE KIND OF 
			  BOOTS AND SHOES
		       EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
                       priced articles made by the
        WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCATION,
   At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
   Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
                          S. P. CROMPTON, Supt. 

					LADIES
 If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
           Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
                                  them to the
                  UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
    They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
                          BUTTER and EGGS,
							F. GOSS, Supt. 

			EVERY DESCRIPTION 
				      OF
 		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				    AND
                  GENERAL DRY GOODS.
 Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
             Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.   

			H. DINWOODEY,
       WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
                            FURNITURE!
           SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
                    Feathers, Wall Paper
                                 AND
                    BABY CARRIAGES!
  75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
