VOL. 4. 				﻿SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1875.				NO. 5.


FIRESIDE MUSINGS.

I am dreaming alone by the fire to-night,
As I sit by the hearthstone so radiant and bright,
And I see in the blaze of the coal's gleaming glow
An emblem of this, our strange life below.
The blaze is the wild dancing visions of youth,
So beaming with bright hopes, of glory and truth,
Chasing sorrow and shadowy doubt all away
As the darkness of night fades, with mornings bright ray.

Now the blaze in its glory is sinking so low,
That shadows hang over the coals steady glow,
As fade our bright visions of life's morn away,
They too cast a shadow o'er all our pathway.
Our hearts may still glow with warmth and delight,
But our hopes for the future are seldom so bright,
As in the fresh morning of beauty and love,
Ere dark clouds obstructed the suns rays above.

But lo, as I ponder on life as it seems,
So mixed with deep sorrows and joys fitful gleams,
Now pleasant the pathway, now rugged and hard
And weary the feet that each pitfall must guard:
The fire is fading, gray ashes o'er all
Makes me think with a sigh of the shroud and the pall,
Yet this sorrow is half of its bitterness shorn,
As I catch a bright gleam of Eternity's Morn.
										Hope.


[Column 1]
				For the Exponent.
		THE DRAMA.

	"To make the soul by tender stroke of art;
	To raise the genius, and to mend the heart;
	To make mankind in conscious virtue bold,
	Live o'er the scene, and be what they behold;—
	For this the tragic muse first trod the stage:
	Commanding tears to stream through every age."
	It has long been a matter of surprise to
me why theatrical entertainments are so
studiously slighted, and earnestly con-
demned by some portions of society.  It is
to be hoped that such people consider they
have a true and just cause for their dislike,
for in the minds of the majority of right
thinking individuals, opinions entirely op-
posite are entertained.
	Is their aversion founded on the belief
that sights and examples of this kind fur-
nish pernicious teachings, and give false
ideas concerning life and nature? Or is it
that they regard theatre going as a waste-
ful and useless expenditure of time and
money, that they class it as a contaminating
agency, and shun and avoid all who make
the drama their profession as idle, dissipat-
ed and dishonorable associates? Let us
see.  Should we appreciate literature? Yes.
Should we admire beauty and talent? Yes.
Should we offend heaven by disregarding
and neglecting those pure sentiments and
tastes for the beautiful and good, with
which its bounty has endowed us?  Should
we consider it a crime to have a generous
sympathy awakened in our natures by the
voice of eloquence, and the representation
of life?
	If so, then denounce the drama as a
vicious and debasing influence.  Shakspeare
says, "The purpose of playing is to hold,
as it were, the mirror up to nature; to
show virtue her own face, scorn her own
image, and the very age and body of the
times their form and pressure." If this is
so, should we consider it as a needless waste
of time and money?  Should we not rather
patronize and appreciate the theatre and
its productions, rather than to condemn and
discourage them? No doubt a great deal of
the dislike arises from the fact, that sensa-
tional and even immoral plays are not un-

[Column 2]
frequently produced, and that the persons
engaged in the profession are of dissolute
and disreputable character.  This is unde-
niably true; but is it not more the fault of 
the persons, than the profession.  This class
should not be taken as an index to the
whole. A man or woman need not necessa-
rily be a drunkard, or bear an evil name be-
cause they adopt this line of life.  A noble
and instructive drama should not be despised
because an extravagant, sensational and
vicious play is introduced on the same
boards, at times, to please certain vulgar
and degenerate tastes.  The drama, in its
native purity, embodies all the graces, and
not only fascinates and refines the senses by
the beauty and talent it displays, and the
interest and amusement it affords, but pre-
sents to the view of the audience a reflec-
tion of human nature; and is, therefore, a
valuable means of educating the mind in
the study of life and character.  It is a high
and intelligent profession, and requires in-
dividuals of a high and intelligent order to
represent it faithfully.  There are thousands
of inferior artists laboring in the field, but
glance at the top round of the ladder. Are
the names of Garrick, Kemble, Siddons,
Cushman, Forrest and Booth looked at with
contempt, or spoken of with disrespect?
No, they occupy prominent niches in the
temple of fame, and their memories will
live as long as any of the great writers of
their day, for they are representative char-
acters of their times.  To all those who de-
nounce the drama as vicious and debasing,
say this: the fault lies with yourselves; ig-
norance and bigotry never did appreciate
intelligence and refinement—and far better
would it be for you to seek to educate your
own natures by the very means which you
so bitterly condemn, than to remain the
victims of the false and pitiable error into
which you have fallen.
						THESPIS.
	Salt Lake City, July 23rd, 1875.


For the Exponent.
POETRY, HOW CAN WE DEFINE IT?

		By Blanche Beechwood.

	"Tis not the chime and flow of words that move
	In measured file, and metrical array:
	'Tis not the union of returning sounds
	Nor all the pleasing artifice of rhyme,
	And quantity, and accent."

	Is there a word in our language more ex-
pressive and comprehending more sublime,
lofty and holy ideas than poetry. The
greatest writers whose works have ever
been given to the world only touch the sub-
ject. The Dictionary tells us that poetry is
imaginative composition either in prose or
verse. The term is understood by the
masses of mankind as being rhyme with a
certain metre, but those whose souls have a
touch of this ideal sublimity inherent in
them, find poetry embracing a variety of
subjects; they appreciate the poetry of mu-
sic, of motion, of nature most of all; the
running brook, the sparkling fount, the
grand ocean, "the sighing of the sad sea
waves," everything that strikes harmoni-
ously upon the charmed sense.
	It is an inspiration in the truest version of


the word, but one capable of the most lofty
cultivation: it is the extreme depth and mi-
nutest expression of sorrow, and the most
ecstatic and exquisite joy. Byron said:
	"Many are poets, who never have penned
		Their inspiration."
	Who can say but it is a spark of divinity,
which "the gods" have implanted within
us, happify our mortal life, and to iden-
tify us with themselves. Life itself is one
great unwritten poem; each embodied spirit
is the artist who tries his hand, his skill, his
energies his capabilities more or less success-
fully, in representing it in beauty, in real-
ity, in holiness, in sublimity.  An apprecia-
tion of all that is most lovable, most beauti-
ful, and most attractive to the finer inner
senses, brings a loftier elevation of tone, of
sentiment and of nearness to God. It lifts
us into a higher atmosphere, assists us to
control, to govern annd refine those attri-
butes of our nature not in harmony with
the influence of this soul-cheering concep-
tion of poetry.  It exalts, strengthens and
invigorates the human mind, according to
the proportion it enjoys.  It makes the hut
a palace, it makes duty easy and gives a
zest and flavor to each passing hour. But
lest I weary my gentle readers I will close,
and anon I will give you a few more ideas
of mine, upon the poetry of life.  And if
some of our over-worked practical people
would breathe in a little of this exhilara-
ting element, their every-day life would be-
come a more complete realization of the de-
sign of their creation.
	Salt Lake City, July 29th, 1875.


MEN OF LITERARY GENIUS.

	Tasso's conversation was neither gay nor
brilliant. Dante was neither taciturn nor
satirical. Butler was sullen or biting. Gray
seldom talked or smiled. Hogarth and
Smith were very absent minded in com-
pany. Milton was very unsociable, and even
irritable when pressed into conversation.
Kirwan, though copious and eloquent in
public addresses, was meagre and dull in
colloquial discourse.  Virgil was heavy in
conversation. La Fontaine appeared heavy,
coarse and stupid; he could not speak and
describe what he had just seen; but then he
was the model of poetry. Chaucer's silence
was more agreeable than his conversation.
Dryden's conversation was slow and dull,
his humor saturnine and reserved. Cor-
neille, in conversation was so insipid that he
never failed in wearying; he did not even
speak correctly that language of which he
was such a master. Ben Johnson used to
sit silent in company and suck his wine and
their humors. Southey was stiff, sedate
and wrapped up in asceticism. Addison
was good company with his intimate friends,
but in mixed company he preserved his
dignity by a stiff and reserved silence. Fox
in conversation never flagged, his anima-
tion and variety were inexhaustible. Dr.
Bentley was loquacious, so also was Grotius.
Goldsmith "wrote like an angel and talked
like poor Poll." Burke was entertaining,
enthusiastic and interesting in conversation.
Curran was a convivial deity.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			LETTER
OF ELDER ORSON SPENCER TO HIS OR-
	PHAN CHILDREN, WHILE ON A
		FOREIGN MISSION
(Printed by permission of the family)
		LIVERPOOL March 25th, 1848.
MY DEAR CHILDREN:
	Having a few leisure moments, (which is
a rare thing for me,) it gives me very great
pleasure to write to you whome I love with
the most inexpressible fondness. You are
my dearest treasures upon the earth.
Your mother was one of the loveliest of her
sex: generous and open hearted in love to
all our race. Under all circumstances I al-
ways found a welcome asylum in her breast,
and she characterized her whole life by
those admirable virtues which secured the
spontaneous delight and good will of all
who knew her. In you, my dear children,
I see many traits of her lovely spirit, and
also her features. From her, my own mind
has received many a beautifying grace and
virtue: and few could live with her as
long as I did without being enriched and
ennobled by such association. Thus far,
your lives are full of promise, your minds
are all intelligence and your hearts innocent
and pure. The spirit of God can dwell with
you, and assist you to emulate celestial wor-
thies. I desire so to live that my example
and teaching shall tend to give you a
mould and polish which will make heaven
happier at your approach, and angels to re-
joice over you as in the acquisition of the
richest of pearls.
	Dear children, for my own sake then,
don't be discouraged or impatient, but try
to live through your appointed days, for
your lot is cast in an age of sorrow mingled
indeed with the sweet solace of redeeming
triumphs. Deprived of your mother by
death, and your father by obedience to the
counsels of the church, your path-way is
perilous and stormy. Sometimes without
shoes to your feet and sometimes without
bread, surrounded with savage foes, with-
out any assurance that I will be restored to
you for a long time yet to come, you may
indeed often wonder why your lot is thus;
and why want and orphanage and peril and
a homeless pilgrimage should all come upon
you at once, and that, while you are at an
age so tender.
	While I am writing, I suppose you are
struggling with all the energy and dili-
gence your tender minds are capable of to
escape to the mountains; being required to
leave the little cabin and garden and field,
that I had hoped would shield you till I
come to comfort you. But you must re-
cross the river and build anew, or flee to the
mountains, the latter I prefer, as the coun-
try is sickly and the times perilous. Still
your means are very scanty for such a jour-
ney to a land where you must make the
only home you will have, without me to
counsel or accompany you. If you go over
the mountains I may not hear from you or
you from me for nearly a year and a half.
My dear children I trust God, who coun-
sels us to walk the narrow way, will be your
sheild and defense and provide for your
wants and keep you all alive till we meet
again, where the fury of the opressor can-
not overtake us, and the storms of heavenly
indignation pass us by in the day of great
distress. If I am counseled to endure this
long separation and to expose you to such
privations, my prayer shall be the more fer-
vent in your behalf, and with strength of
heart and soul, I shall plead for your lives
to be spread,and your minds kept unpolluted.
[Column 2]
	Love one another and bear with each oth-
er's faults. Cherish the spirit of God by
patience and kindness. Never yield to sin
or do anything that you would be ashamed
to ask God about or tell me of. Let no one
entice you to do wrong, woever they may
be. Keep together, live together and do
not separate. Be friends to one another,
and caution the younger sisters and brothers
against accidents, against bad conduct and
bad company. Believe that God can hear
and help you when you need it, and tell you
many things which are neccessary for you
to know and to do. Learn to trust in God
for all good things, and to be thankful for
all favors, And if God should not allow
me to return any more on the earth, you
will be visited from the heavens when it is
requisite. Be cheerful and happy and cher-
ish virtue and truth and strive to be an or-
nament to my family forever. Contract no
alliance incompatible with the interests of
the family. And if you maintain a blame-
less life you will survive all discourage-
ments, and those that bless you shall be
blessed, and they that harm you shall be
cursed, and God and angels will be you
friends, and your parents shall never slum-
ber over your condition, worlds without
end.
	Your journey will be long and tedious you
will need to be very careful not to get lost
from your camp on the journey; and also be
cautious in regard to the hostile Indians,ser-
pents or dangerous roots and herbs. Do
not walk out at night away from the camo
while on the journey. You will scarcely be
saved with the utmost faith, dilligence and
economy. My anxieties about you from the
time you leave will I see you will be unceas-
ingly great.
	My oldest daughters:—on you is rolled a
great responsibility seemingly beyond your
years. Be womanly, kind and patient, act
the part of mothers to the younger child-
ren. Teach them good principles and in-
struct them how to act. Avoid in yourselves
the weakness and folly of youth as much as
possible. Never forget or slight my coun-
sel for this is the commandment of God.
	Don't be in haste to marry for in due time
you shall have husbands that will cherish 
and exalt you,for you are forming char-
acters that will render you deserving of
such. The Lord will give you men after
His own heart that will not oppress or abuse
you. I shall seek for your welfare in this as
in all other things.
	To you all I would say, remember two
things always. Honor your father and
mother to whom you have been sealed at
the sacred altar with the Holy Spirit of
promise for ever and ever—Amen. And
next to the name of God honor your Father
whether he is spared to live or is removed
to the heavens before you. Let his name
be forerever your name else you will dishonor
him. His happiness is bound up in you.
Lessen not his happiness amd crown by de-
parting to other fathers and guardians. I
think I write to you according to the mind
of God. I am not permitted to speak face
to face but I write unto you as a father
with soberness and godly fear. Treasure
up my sayings and teach them to the young-
er children and read this letter to them, at
least, three or four times a year till I come
to you. Teach George to stand by Howard
as his counselor and right hand man. George
shall be distinguished and a great help to
Howard and to you all.
	Watch over Lucy for she is the choicest
emblem of peace, and you shall have the
honor of bringing her up to womanhood.
[Column 3]
	Howard and George:—be good boys, yea,
more than this, be manly and very kind to
your sisters. They have taken care of you
as another should do; they have counsel-
ed you, provided for your wants and taken
charfe of you in sickness and in health, and
you ought to love them and strive to please
them in all things. Be obedient to them in
my absence till you are grown up,then hon-
or and protect them till the day of your
death. Counsel with them in all difficult
matters. and never lift your hand against
them in anger or strife, and know that your
prosperity lies in your union. Strive to
get knowledge. Study well when you
have an opportunity.
	Spread your feelings freely before one an-
other and let your most secret plans and
designs to be entrusted to each other, but keep
them to yourselves and divulge them not
abroad. And whatever you all unite in,
will almost invariably be right.
	Let the boys not waste their strength in
wrestling or scuffling, although a little of
these exercises are good, but godliness will
profit them more.
	Go and hear preaching when you can and
talk about what you hear. If you go over
the mountains before I do, you will use
your best judgement in selecting a lot. Ad-
here to Brother Bullock and his wife for I
want them to go with you wherever you go,
or stay and never desert you wherever you go,
or stay and never desert you. You will not
have means, probably to assist any body but
Bro. Bullock, with what I send you
in money and clothes. Don't listen to any
false tales against Bro. Billock. He is good
and faithful.	*	*	*	*	*
	I should like to have the girls and also
Howard pay particular attention to Arithme-
tic. This is more important than Geography
or Grammer.
	You will need good oil cloth covers to
your wagons, and a good tent I think.
Have as many cows as your means will
permit; but if you should not go over the
mountains this spring, you will still need all
the means you can get.
	The prospect is very good for a great in-
gathering of converts in England, during
the coming season; but business just now is
worse than ever. Revolutions are going
forward in Europe, and Monarchs are tremb-
ling on their thrones. The people almost
universally demand a change of Govern-
ment and of rulers. The agitation is so very
great that business is kept very much in
suspense.
	My health at present is only tolerably
good. I am very thin in flesh in conse-
quence of many labors and cares. Since I
have been here, I have spared no pains
whatever to keep the work of God rolling
forth with success and power, and prosper-
ity has attended my labors thus far beyond
my utmost anticipations. I have had no
time for play or rest, but think when Elder
Orson Pratt comes that I shall have a little
respite. Your last letter was three months
and a half coming. Send your letters by
mail in the quickest conveyance. If you
do not go over the mountains write once a
month without fail. You will have enough
to write about; tell me about all little mat-
ters. Write the last thing and tell me par-
ticularly all about your outfit.	*	*	*
	It will be my constant desire to live in or-
der to do you good, and provide for your
wants. I want you all to be very good
children. I am very anxious to see you
once more but I will not disobey my lawful
counselors.
	George is now eight years old, if he has
nor been baptized yet I want to have him
baptized soon. Do the boys learn well at
school?


Almost every paper brings news of the
overthrow of some kingdom and the flight
of some king. Commerce and trade are
consequently at a stand. The people are
looking for general war. The Boston Steam-
er has not arrived consequently I must send
this letter without hearing anything from
you. In haste. God bless you my child-
ren. Farewell!
	Your Ever Affectionate Father,
				ORSON SPENCER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeeting of the Se-
nior and Junior Retrenchment Associations
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
July 17, 1875, was very largely attended,
President Mrs. M. I. Horne and her Coun-
selors Mrs. P. Woodruff and Mrs. E. How-
ard, seemed inspired to speak to the sisters
upon the subject of obedience to coun-
sel, and to those in authority, and said it is
one of the saving principles: they also ex-
pressed their ideas upon the subject of ed-
ucation as regards the young, and the var-
iour influences in the midst of Zion that
have a tendency to draw them away from
the Gospel. They also sought to impress
upon the minds of all present, the great
need of seeking to lead the minds of the
young into the channel of truth; and let
their instructors be those who could while
imparting instruction from books &c., also
teach the principles of eternal life.
		PAYSON, U.T., July 6th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you herewith a copy of the Annu-
al Report of our Relief Society which you
are at liberty to publish if you see fit. Our
Society is in a very properous condition
and we are trying to do all the good we can.
	We have recently had a visit from Sisters
Snow, Howard, Horne, Smoot and Barney,
which has very much strengthendd and en-
couraged us, so much so that we feel like
laying hold with renewed energy and hope
to accomplish much that we have hitherto
deemed almost impossible for our feeble
powers. May God bless and prosper these
our dear sisters in their labors of love among
the people, and may their noble example of
self-sacrifice in the good cause, inspire our
sex to deeds of emulation, that the cause of
Zion may receive an impetus that will be
felt throughout all her borders.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel of
Peace.
			MARY ANN HARDY,
					Secy. R. Society.
	Annual report of the financial condition 
of the society June 23d, 1875.
	Remaining in Treasury from
		last year's report............... $ 84.09 1/2
	Donations since...................	    171.47 1/2
	Disbursements as follows:
	For the Temple....................	  $ 12.00
	Expended on City Lot...........	     54.57 1/2
	For the Poor........................	    153.12
	Remaining in Treasury.........	      35.98
	Property belonging to the society is val-
ued at $424.87.
			SARAH FAIRBANKS,
						Treasurer.
			NEPHI, July 13th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Feeling it a duty as well as a pleasure to
give you a short sketch of our prosperity, I
take this opportunity to say that we held
our Annual Meeting on the 26th of June.
[Column 2]
There was a general attendance of the sis-
ters. Our books show that we are progress-
ing slowly but surely. The faithful few
still try to keep the good spirit and to make
its influence felt in our meetings.
	On the 30th of June we had a visit from
Sisters Snow, Horne, Howard and Barney:
who gave us much good instruction in our
various duties as a Relief Society; I believe
all felt greatly benefitted and blessed by the
out-pouring of the Holy Spirit through their
teaching and counsel. And we feel to say,
may God grant them long life, to bless and
comfort our Relief Societies.
	We hope soon to be able to send subscrip-
tion money. Wishing you success in your
valuable paper, we subscribe ourselves your
sister in the gospel of peace,
			AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH, Prest.
	AMY  L. BIGLER, Sec.
			HARRISVILLE, July 1st, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the following report of an in-
teresting meeting, held according to ap-
pointment to set apart the proper officers
for the Relief Society here, which had
been neglected.
	President Franklin D. Richards and Bish-
op L. J. Herrick were present, also Presi-
dent Mrs. Jane Richards and Counselors,
and a goodly number of other sisters. Pres-
ident F. D. Richards in the opening re-
marks said it was good to go to meeting but
few realized the benefit of speaking them-
selves; exhorted the sisters to let the spirit
of God light up their minds, and forget
their cares toils and trials; told them they
had gifts, especially the gift of healing, that
they had the right to wash and anoint, and
it would be a shield to the sick, as well as a
power of healing. Bishop L. J. Herrick
said he was much pleased with the minutes
of our last meeting, and exhorted mothers
to teach their little children to pray, said it
would keep them from wandering after
worldly things; spoke of the remembrance
he had always cherished of his mothers
teachings and prayers; said we were all de-
pendent upon each other for happiness,
more especially husbands and wives; and
added his blessing.
	President Mrs. Jane Richards said she
knew the Lord had blest her and also her
sisters who were helping in this great work.
She always felt happy in hearing them
speak; those who attended meeting kept
young longer by having a good spirit and
cheerful face; said we should never tire of
doing good; when meeting day comes we
should go, if you had visitors invite them
to go too, that would be doing right, said
we were capable of doing great wrong as
well as right. To the young girls she said
you have grown up in innocence, without
the traditions to overcome the older ones
have had: use no unkind words, partake of
a happy spirit, the Holy spirit teaches right
from wrong; said when she was set apart to
preside she did not know her duty but had
to learn it by degrees. To the Teachers she
said go with a good spirit when you visit in
that capacity, and if any are on the back
ground, you can do them good by a few
cheerful words, and always remember to
pray for your president. President Mrs. J.
Richard's Counselors and Mrs. Frodsham
made some good remarks, then Mrs. Melis-
sa Shirtliff made a few appropriate ones off-
ering to resign the presidency she held.
	President F. D. Richards then called a
vote to see if we could sustain our present
organization, and it was sustained unani-
mously.
[Column 3]
	Mrs. Melissa Shirtliff President, Mrs.
Sarah Jane Taylor and Mrs. Nancy Ransom
Counselors, were then ordained by Presi-
dent F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J. Her-
rick. Meeting then adjourned with the
usual ceremonies.
		S. A. SHIRTLIFF, Secretary.
	Minutes of a Retrenchment meeting held
in the First Ward at the residence of Mrs.
Margaret Steele, June 9th, 1875. After the
usual exercises and reading of the minutes,
Miss Annie Brown read an essay on Obe-
dience. President Mrs. Sarah Graham then
rose and said, the essay on obedience was a
good one; and that she was pleased to meet
with the society again; thanked them for
their prayers in her behalf, in her sickness,
said she was much better in health than she
had been, although not yet wholly recov-
ered; exhorted them to be punctual in at-
tending their meetings, and not to speak
evil of any one and to improve every mo-
ment of their precious time. Counselor
Mrs. Jane Van Tassell spoke of her desire
to do right, her interest in the work now
commenced among the young people, testi-
fied to the truth of the Gospel and the in-
spiration of President Young as a Prophet
of God. Desired they might all obtain a
standing in the church and kingdom of
God. Mrs. Alice Fletcher said she thought
it the duty of every one to speak, and try
to perfect themselves, and that the Lord
would bless them and give them wisdom.
Mrs. Margaret Steele said she was pleased
to meet with so many of the young sisters,
her whole heart was in the work; she always
felt edified and strengthened in these meet-
ings. They were all of one great family, and
should speak kindly to each other; a kind
word in a time of trouble was worth a great
deal. They should always go to their Heav-
enly Father with their troubles,said she knew
if they were humble and rose up to speak,
the gifts and blessings of God would be
poured out upon them; she advised all the
young girls to attend the meetings in the
Fourteenth Ward. Miss Zina Higgs, Miss
Janet Hill, Miss Josephine Young, Mrs.
Amelia Smith, Miss Rosy Smith, Miss Lyd-
ia Johnston, Miss Annie Brown, Miss Beu-
lah Adams, Miss Lena Searl, and Miss
Amy Adams each made a few remarks; af-
ter which President Mrs. Sarah Graham
spoke of the wish of President Young in
regard to discarding round dances, and said
she wished them all to bear it in mind and
not dance them; it was her desire and that
of her Counselors: there were many unprin-
cipled men in their midst who sought to
lead astray and ruin the young ladies, and
they must be watchful and on their guard
continually, and not yield to temptation,
but attend to their duties, to Sunday School
and all their meetings; use all their influ-
ence to sustain "HOME INDUSTRIES," and
trade among their own people, to keep
money within their own Territory that they
might help to build up Zion, and to assist
in building Temples and then they would
have the privilege of receiving blessings in
them. Exhorted all to attend the meetings
in the tabernacle and if they wanted to
walk out on the Sabbath day, that was the
proper place to go. Said she wished the
young men of the Ward would get the
spirit of reformation the young girls had,
there would be less rowdyism among them.
She again entreated the young girls to use
their utmost influence to get their young
companions to attend meeting. Meeting
then adjourned for two weeks, after sing-
ing and prayer.
		AMY ADAMS, Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA [-]. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
line. $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1875.


A PLEA FOR THE LITTLE FOLKS. 

	To rear a family, either of boys or girls or
both, in honor and integrity, is to fulfill a holy
mission, to accomplish a noble life’s work.
And to ensure success in this enterprise, every
couple who engage therein should make of it a
speciality, whatever may be their other callings
and responsibilities.
	The varied duties of a parent are too numer-
ous, amplified and lofty to admit of elaboration
here. But of one wrong (or one course of ac-
tion which seems wrong to the writer) it may
not be amiss to offer a few suggestions.
	To beat a horse or dog, or other dumb ani-
mal, for any slight misbehavior, is considered
cruelty in the eyes of humane persons. Yet
children, little beings in the image of their
Creator, are ruthlessly subjected to such treat-
ment, often upon very small provocation.
	The question arises, do parents and guardians
realize the importance which should be at-
tached to such kind of government?
	For one man to strike another is a penal of- 
fense; and the man who would strike a woman
is justly deemed a “cowardly brute.” But to
strike a child is a thing of little consequence
Upon what consideration is it that the flesh of
a parent is held more sacred from acts of vio-
lence than that of the tender offspring? Why
should there be a period between the ages of
twelve months and from twelve to fifteen years
when, according to the notions of a civilized
world, physical force must be employed and
physical pain inflicted to ensure the progress of
human education? If to receive an intentional
blow is degrading and insulting to manhood or
womanhood, why is it less to either in embryo.
	No one who ever noticed the pitiful, broken-
hearted expression upon a child’s face when,
for the first time, it comprehends that it is
purposely hurt and tries to understand for
what, can doubt that its sensitive affections are
as acute as those of an adult. Why should
they not receive as kind consideration?
	It is generally understood among children,
that some get more whippings than others be-
cause they are not so good. But in many cases
it would be just and reasonable to reverse the
rule, and say that some are not so good as
others, because they are whipped more.
	Although the saying, “He who spares the
rod ruins the child,” is a proverb of a great and
wise king, it is one which admits of qualifica-
tion. Instances may occur wherein to punish
a child is really essential, almost unavoidable;
hut indeed, such cases should be very rare. And
where an opportunity to appeal to the moral
instincts, to incite a conscientiousness and love
of duty, instead of compelling sullen submis-
sion, is presented, it should never be neglected
or misinterpreted. Yet so common has become


the practice of whipping, or threatening to
whip, for every childish offense, that whether
the occasion is one which justifies such stern
reproof or not, is scarcely thought of.
	"All wise government begins with self-gov-
ernment." To deal with children always in a
wise and just manner would be a great thing.
A vast amount of forbearance and fortitude is
requisite, and too much thought and attention
cannot be exercised in the management of chil-
dren. To discern correctly and lean not to
either extreme is the grand point to be gained.
	There is, however, one sure rule which par-
ents may be safely at case in following: To
watch and imitate the course pursued by the
Eternal Father toward His children upon this
earth, will enable mortal parents to perform
every duty wisely toward their little ones.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
	WE HAVE received interesting communica-
tions in regard to the progress and improve-
ment of their Relief and Retrenchment Socie-
ties, from Cedar Fort, Spring City and Gunni-
son, which are unavoidably crowded out of this
issue, but will appear in our uext, August 15th;
also an essay on Obedience.
	A TWO days meeting at Provo commenced
Saturday, July 31st. Members of the First
Presidency and some of the quorum of the
Twelve in attendance. In all these meetings
which have been and are being held through-
out the different settlements, the Spirit of God
seems to be poured out upon the people in a
very powerful and forcible manner; and an
earnest work of reformation has apparently
commenced.
	ELDER C. G. Larsen arrived in this city, in
charge of the Scandinavian emigrants, Friday
morning, July 23rd. The company numbered
761 persons, and were in excellent condition;
but two deaths had occurred upon the road.
Elder C. G. Larsen is a resident of Spring City,
and has been for two years past President of
the Scandinavian mission. He was accompa-
nied by several other returning missionaries;
one Elder John Frantzen, also of Spring City,
who has been acting as accountant in the Scan-
dinavian Star Office.
	SATURDAY AND Sunday, July 17th and 18th,
a two days meeting was held at Farmington
Grove, the attendance being very large and
from all the settlements in the county. George
Q. Cannon, Wilford Woodruff and John Tay-
lor, of the quorum of the Twelve, and some
others from this city took part in the services.
After the meeting on Sunday was over, twen-
ty-seven of the leading elders of the county,
including the Bishops and their counselors,
were re-baptized by Elder George Q. Cannon
and confirmed under the hands of Elders John
Taylor and Wilford Woodruff.
	THIS CITY is fast becoming a favorite resort
for travelers, and very many distinguished peo-
ple have called at Salt Lake on their way across
the continent this season. Secretary Belknap
and party on their tour of inspection of milita-
ry posts, arrived here Monday the 20th; the
party consisted, besides Secretary Belknap, of
Generals W. C. Strong, R. B. Marcy and J. C.
Forsythe. Mr. McCormick, Delegate to Con-
gress from Arizona, with his wife and daughter,
visited this city recently. His wife is the
daughter of Senator Thurman of Ohio, who
has been prominently mentioned in connection
with the Democratic nomination for the next
President of the United States.
	THE ANNIVERSARY of the arrival of the pio-
neers to this Territory has been celebrated in
[Column 2]
many of the country places, as a joyful event.
From Brigham City there is a most pleasing
report of the occurrence; also from Fillmore
and Spanish Fork. Prosperity and success have
crowned the efforts of this people, until "the
desert literally blossoms as the rose," and
springs of living water gush forth from the
parched earth. Truly ought this people to lift
their hearts and voices in gratitude and praise
to Him who has heaped upon them the rich
blessings of earth and heaven.
	WE WOULD again call the attention of the
public to the opening of the Normal Institute,
Monday, August 2nd. The very best profes-
sional talent this city affords has been obtained
for the institution, and teachers will certainly
derive great advantages from attending. Supt.
Riggs and Prof. Park have spared no pains in
securing the services of those who have had
the most superior educational advantages and
practice. The school instruction is free, and
every facility has been offered for those who
wish to attend from the country. Teachers
should avail themselves of this most advanta-
geous opportunity for improvement in the
methods and practice of imparting instruction.
	GOVERNOR S. B. Axtell left this city Thurs-
day morning, July 22nd, for his new field of
labor in New Mexico. He was accompanied
to Ogden by a surprise party who met him at
the depot in this city for that purpose; a spe-
cial car was furnished by Superintendent Sharp.
After arriving in Ogden, the Governor made a
few remarks to his young friends, appreciative
of the compliment they paid him; referred
with much feeling, characteristic of his good-
ness of heart, to his administration in Utah,
said he had desired to be just to all, without
favoritism. He carries with him to his new
home the best wishes of this entire people, and 
will always retain a kindly place in their 
memories.
	UTAH WESTERN Railway Company run
daily trains, for passengers and freight, be-
tween Salt Lake City and Half-way House,
leaving Salt Lake City at 7 a. m., arriving at
Half-way House at 9.20 a. m.; leave there at
10 a. m., reach Salt Lake City at 12 noon. On
Wednesdays and Sundays a special train leaves
Salt Lake City at 1 p. m., and connects with
the Steamer, Gen. Garfield, upon which, plea-
sure seekers, pleasure parties, excursionists, or
those who, for health or recreation, desire a
little change of air or scene, can make a short
trip upon the Lake and return with the even-
ing train, arriving in the city at 8 p. m. Tick-
ets by either train, including steamboat fare,
$1.50. The regular morning train connects
with stages for Ophir, Stockton and Dry
Canon.
	A LADIES' ENTERPRIZE.—We have been re-
quested to call the attention of women, and
especially mothers, to the Ladies' Library and
Reading Rooms. This institution has been es-
tablished about three years, and has been an
efficient method of doing good in a quiet way.
It is supported by entertainments given by
ladies, such as concerts, lectures, etc., and is
free and open to all. The collection of books is
particularly well chosen, and strict attention
has been given to the selection of papers, maga-
zines periodicals and current literature, with
which the library is well supplied. For the
benefit of foreigners unable to read English, of
whom there are many in the city, there are
French, German and Scandinavian papers.
The ladies who conduct the library having
families themselves, have spared no pains in
furnishing it with books, magazines, papers,
etc., suitable for children and young people.
The library is located one block south of the


Theatre, on the west side of the street, and is
open every day from ten a. m. until four p. m.
It contains two rooms pleasantly furnished,
cool and quiet, where ladies may rest (even
when out upon errands, or marketing) and look
over the latest magazines and papers. ALL
ARE WELCOME.
	THE CHILDREN'S JUBILEE.—The celebration
of the anniversary of the arrival of the pio-
neers to this valley, on the 24th of July, 1847,
which took place in the New Tabernacle, Sat-
urday, July 24th, was a most interesting occa-
sion; the inspiring effect of the music, the
beauty of the decorations enhanced by the
original beauty of the thousands of beautiful
faces of children, lighted up with the joyous-
ness of "youth's merry spring time," together
with the connection the day bore to the time
they were celebrating, the marvellous contrast
between that time and this, heightened the en-
chantment of the scene, and must inevitably
have caused the coldest heart to swell with
gratitude to that God who had led this people
from the land of their persecutions. The inte-
rior of the Tabernacle was truly magnificent
in appearance; one of the most noticeable fea-
tures of the decoration, was the fountain of
pure water near the centre of the building,
which seemed to cool and refresh the vast as-
sembly; at each of the four corners was  lion,
and upon their backs were seated four children,
representing Europe, Asia, Africa and Ameri-
cr; Africa and America were represented by
genuine natives. An elegant, pictured banner,
with a beehive in the centre, surrounded
with flowers and vines, hung at the east end of
the gallery; flags, hanging baskets, trees, fes-
toons of evergreens ornamented and draped
the whole interior of the building. At the top
of the organ in front was a gilded statue of an
angel sounding a golden trumpet. Young la-
dies in white represented all the different states
and territories and many countries also, wear-
ing a badge inscribed with the name of the
country represented. The Goddess of Liberty
was personated by a very tall majestic looking
young lady with a fine figure and golden hair.
She held in her right hand the sword of justice
and gracefully waved it aloft when the Na-
tional Anthem was sung. Among other reci-
tations were two original poems, one by Miss
E. R. Snow, called "The Jubilee," and read by
Mrs. Armeda Young; the other was a Tribute
of Homage to the Pioneers of '47, by H. W.
Naisbitt, and read by G. J. Bywater. The ex-
ercises commenced at eleven a. m. precisely,
and closed about half past one.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARY.
	Enshrined with sweet, sad, tender thought,
		The dear departed lingers still
	In memory, and there is nought
		Her absent <vacant> place can ever fill.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of a beloved friend, Mrs. Emeline F.
Young, wife of President Brigham Young.
This estimable lady departed this life after
a lingering and painful illness (having
been for many years previous an invalid) Sat-
urday morning, July 17th, 1875. She was the
mother of ten children, all now living, except
one. To them, and to all her relatives and
friends, to whom she was more than ordinarily
endeared by many attractive graces, and beau-
ties of character and mind, we extend our
heartfelt sympathies; and more especially to
the younger children, whose tender years still
require the ever ready and watchful care and
solicitude of a mother. May the good an-
gels watch over them every hour, and preserve
them in purity, and may the memory of their
[Column 2]
mother be ever fresh in their youthful hearts,
and her wise and judicious counsels never for-
gotten. During her illness, she repeatedly ex-
horted her children to listen to the instruction
and counsel of their father, and never, under
any circumstance or upon any consideration,
disobey him. She also strictly enjoined upon
them all, never to speak against the principle
of CELESTIAL MARRIAGE, which she had
obeyed in her youth, for she knew it to be of
God; and bore a solemn testimony to them of
its purity and truth.
	Deceased was born at Fayettesville, St. Clair
Co., Illinois, April 28th, 1826. Her parents
embraced the Gospel when she was a little
child, and she was reared in an atmosphere of
Gospel light. She was baptized at an early
age, and with her parents emigrated to Far
West, Missouri, when the Saints gathered to
that place, and shared in the persecutions which
were heaped upon the Saints at that time; her
parents were driven out without shelter, com-
pelled to abandon their home, and leave the
state. They crossed the river and settled in
Belleville, Illinois, from which place they went
to Nauvoo in the general gathering of the
saints. There she became acquainted with the
then new revelation upon Celestial Marriage;
and at a time when a stigma was cast upon all
those who stepped forward to aid in bringing
forth this holy order of matrimony, when they
were condemned and esteemed as outcasts, even
among the Saints of latter-days, she was one to
lay all she held dear upon the altar of her faith,
and in the innocence of her heart, sacrifice all
worldly considerations, to secure to herself an
everlasting exaltation, in the same purity of
feeling and earnestness to do the will of God,
with which she went down into the waters of
baptism. She believed as other chaste and
virtuous women did, that it was ordained of
God, for the eventual restoration of true purity
and elevation of character. When the saints
were driven from Nauvoo in the dead of win-
ter, she, with those who then made their exit,
crossed the Mississippi river on the ice, to face
a barren wilderness at that inclement season of
the year. During the sojourn of the Saints at
Winter Quarters, in the absence of her hus-
band with the pioneers, her eldest child was
born. She came to this valley in 1848, and, in
common with others, endured the difficulties
incident to settlers in a new and uncultivated
country. In the year 1872 she visited her rela-
tives in the East, among whom were two elder
brothers. She often alluded to this visit during
her illness, with the most complete satisfaction.
She lived and died true to her religion and the
principles she had so sincerely espoused, and
her memory will live forever in the hearts of
those who loved her.			E. B. W.


SPLINTERS.

		GENERAL.

	There is yellow fever spreading at Key
West, Florida......The one hundredth anni-
versary of Gen. Washington assuming com-
mand of the Revolutionary army was cele-
brated in Cambridge, Mass. July 3rd......
Robert Dale Owen, the celebrated writer
and lecturer, is hopelessly insane through
spiritualism......Miss Ihling, niece of Prof.
Nise, the acronout, made an ascension in a
balloon from Philadelphia on the 16th of
July. The baloon burst 5,000 feet from the
ground; the lady was saved from being
dashed to pieces by the parachute arrange-
ment though she was badly injured......The
first celebration of Independence Day by
American Indians, took place July 5th, 1875
at Akota Indian Ter. 3,000 Indians present;
speeches were made by Gov. Allen, an ed-


ucated Choctah, and others........The ten
million dollars in the Treasury cash vault is
counted and tallies with Gen. Spinner's ac-
counts......At Rochester N. Y., the board of
education have by vote discarded religious
exercises in the public schools, including
the reading of the Bible......The Fourth of
July oration at Duluth Flat, Cal. was deliv-
ered by a lady......Ingleside, a summer re-
sort three miles from Holyoke, Mass., was
burned July 25th; loss $30,000, insurance
$20,000.
			FOREIGN.
	An English Medical Journal announces
that the hairs of the head number from 160,
000 to 20,000......Gen. Jovellas has captured
Cantavieja 2,000 strong......The draft for
the constitution of Spain has been finished
by the committee; it provides a Senate and
Chamber of Deputies, and guarantees indi-
vidual and religious liberty......The "Daily
News" from Lisbon reports a terrible
draught in several districts of the province
of Minho; crops and pastures are destroyed
and famine is inevitable;  insurrection
is also feared......Thirty cotton mills closed
at Oldham, July 26th, the operators refusing
the master's terms for wages......There is
a battle between the Turks and Heryegove-
nians. A severe engagement took place
near Nervisgua......A meeting was held in
London, July 16th, in which it was resolved
to open a subscription to erect a statue of
Lord Byron in some conspicuous part of
London......A meeting was held at Hyde
Park, on the 18th of July to protest against
the grant for the Prince of Wales to visit
India; there were twelve thousand persons
present.
			PERSONAL.
	The Emperor of Germany was recently
the guest of the Emperor of Austria......
Vice President Wilson is stopping at Con-
gress Hall, Saratoga......The Duke of Cam-
bridge threatens to resign command of the
British army......E. Lorett has been nomi-
nated for Governor by the Temperance Re-
form party in California......Joaquin Miller
has composed a poem on the National Cen-
tennial, at Newburyport Mass......Mr. Child-
ers, M. P. from England is visiting Ameri-
ca and intends remaining until October......
Santa Anna is still straight and slender his
black hair and eyes preserving their original
color and brilliancy, although he is 77 years
of age......Charles Kemble Mason, a veter-
an actor, died in Brooklyn Sunday, July 18th
......Hon. Peleg Sprague, of Boston, is the
oldest member of Congress now living, his
age is 83......Mr. Jones Minister to Belgi-
um, resigned on account of ill health.


For the EXPONENT.
			SLANDER.

	Slander, is one of the worst evils in the
world, and one of the most common. There
is scarcely any person who does not indulge
in it to some extent. It is a habit much
harder to get rid of than to form. A few
friends will meet and begin to talk, and
before they are aware of it, the conversa-
tion will lead them into slander, they will
talk of persons whose interests are of no
import to them. They do not mean harm
by it, but they make harm before they are
done with it. They tell some little story
they have heard and it is repeated, and by
the time it has passed to three or four per-
sons it is quite a story, (extraordinary) and
those whom it concerns hear it, and are very
much grieved; for perhaps there was no
foundation for it to start from in the first
place. Many good girls have been ruined,
by just such stories. They think;  "Well if


people think that of us, we don't care what
we do."  We ought to be careful what we
say about people, for there is nothing wounds
a sensitive heart as much as slander and
sneers.
	It would be a good idea for us of the
Retrenchment Society, to reform in this re-
spect.  If we were willing to be checked by
each other whenever we began to talk
about a person, if it is not something good,
we would be more careful about it.  If we
cannot say any good of a person, let us not say
any thing about them. We may think we
will have to stop talking altogether, but in
a short time we will find something more
interesting and far more instructive.  We
cannot truthfully deny that the most of our
conversation is of this nature nowadays.  It is
a sin which we must overcome, or suffer the
consequence.
	There is nothing so sacred to a girl, as her
character, and consider how easy it is to
ruin it.  Even if a person has "stumbled
in the path, we have in weakness trod,"
would it be right to cast her off entirely?
You know the Savior said, we must forgive
a person, seventy times seventy, even in a
day; if they were penitent and asked for-
giveness.  Let us extend the hand of char-
ity to others, and then if we err, (which we
are all liable to do,) others will show char-
ity towards us.
					E. M. MERREL.
	Smithfield, July 21st, 1875.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
		OUR MISSION.

	To be or not to be is not the question, for
we are.  But to be and not know the
wherefore of that being. To think there
must be a future, yet scarce can catch a
glimpse of what that mighty future will
unfold.
	How many of us are there that realize
who we are, from whence we came, and
what is our mission here?
	We come into this world; we grow to ma-
turity, then decline to old age and make
our exit from this stage of life, and to all
appearance, we are as if we had not been.
But is it so.  No; we are the children of a
Supreme Being, fashioned after His own
image, immortal souls, full of life and light.
We come as spirits from the eternal worlds
the dwelling place of the Gods.  To do
what?
	To become like those that sent us forth to
work out for ourselves a destiny.  To go high-
erand higher in the scale of intelligence, un-
til we reach our Father's presence. Shall
we then say we have no aim in life, let us
eat, drink and make merry for to-morrow
we die? Or shall we rise up in the strength
of our manhood, and work out for ourselves a
destiny that shall be worthy the approba-
tion of Him who called us into existence.
	Let onward be our motto, and let no day
pass but we can look back to with pleasure and
feel that we have done some good. Some
may say, what can I do? I have no money
to give to the poor, no time to visit the sick,
it is work, work, nothing but work.
	There is something even for them to do.
There is the kind word of comfort to the
husband, or wife; the smile of approval to
the child, the cheery good morrow to the
neighbor, and the thousand and one ways
in which the poor can do as much good, and
realize as much happiness as the rich.
	Time well employed is the poor man's
weath; and how much of that wealth is
squandered in idle talk, and foolish jests, in
back biting neighbors, and in doing any


thing but working out that great problem,
OUR DESTINY.
				      M. E. TULLEDGE.
	Little Kanab.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	STORY, the sculptor, has completed the
colossal statue of Liberty, which is to be
erected in Philadelphia. The statue rep-
resenting the goddess in repose, her stand-
ard unfurled in her grasp and resting upon
her shield, will be twenty feet in height,
and surrounded with forty-eight female
figures representing all the States and Ter-
ritories.
	GENEVA, in Switzerland was visited on
the 7th of July by one of the most destruc-
tive storms that has ever been known. It
commenced to rain slowly about eight
o'clock in the evening, and the lightning
was almost incessant, gradually increasing in
intensity, until the whole atmosphere seem-
ed in flames. At midnight the storm
raged with such fury that in ten minutes
the city was wrecked; the storm came in
the form of a compact mass of ice, driven
furiously before the blast of the tempest.
In a moment it extinguished all the gas
lights in the streets, save here and there
one protected by some roof or projection;
but the city was more brightly illuminated
with the lightning, giving it an unearthly
appearance.  In the suburbs of the city, houses
in many places were pierced by holes such
as musket balls would be likely to make, and
tiles were actually beaten to powder. The
pleasure farms, vineyards, gardens etc.,
have much the appearance of having been
destroyed by a charge of cavalry.  By this
fearful and terrible accident, not only is a
beautiful and flourishing city laid in ruins,
but hundreds of industrious people, re-
duced to want and beggary.
	THE NEW and beautiful poem of Long-
fellow's written as a tribute of respect to
Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me., on the oc-
casion of a reunion of the class of 1825,
which was commemorated July 6th, 1975,
is certainly one of the most touching, pa-
thetic and expressive pieces ever penned
by mortal.  It is the idea of an inspiration
of pure and noble thoughts, characteristic
of the personality of one whose mind is
capable of the highest and holiest aspira-
tions manhood can comprehend, and one
whose heart is genuine in true reverence
for God and humanity. The occasion was
one to call forth the profoundest depths of
feeling in the hearts of the participators.
There were present eleven of the class of
"fifty years ago," one tutor, Professor Pack-
card, who was engaged there at that time.
Some of this class had never met since and
were unable to recognize each other with-
out an introduction. The ceremonies con-
sisted of prayer by J. S. C. Abbot, one of
the memorial class, then followed the read-
ing of Mr. Longfellow's poem by himself,
which was very warmly applauded, and a
vote of thanks also rendered him, the mo-
tion being made by Hon, J. W. Bradbury.
An Oration by the Rev. Dr. Cheever, on
Science and Religion was then delivered; a
vote of thanks by the Alumni was also ren-
dered him. The poem spoken of here, has
been published in the New York Herald,
July 8th, and in Harper's Magazine for
August.  The friends of Bowdoin College,
are at present seeking to raise $10,000 to
establish a Longfellow's Professorship, in
honor of America's great poet.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are fifty-seven women who are at
present editing newspapers in the United
States.
	THE official statement of the United
States life-saving stations, since November
1, shows the number of wrecks to have
been 59; number of lives imperiled, 852;
number of lives saved, 847; lives lost 15;
number of shipwrecked persons sheltered
and succored at the stations, 179; total val-
ue of property imperiled, $2,374,400; value
of property saved $1,618,635; amount lost,
$775,765; of the lives lost 14 were by the
wreck of the Italian bark Giovanni, off
Cape Cod.
	A WASHINGTON dispatch to the Chicago
Tribune says that the custom receipts have
steadily increased during the past two years.
The year ending June 20, 1873 the receipts
were $118,500,000. The following year
they fell off $25,000,000, and the total re-
ceipts this year show a still further falling
off of $7,000,000. The cause of this is ex-
plained partially by the Commissioners of
Customs upon the ground of the dull state
of business throughout the country. There
is also a growing system of smuggling that
offers great difficulties to the collection of
custom. One of the easiest and most se-
cure means of smuggling is by mail. Val-
uable laces are thus smuggled with impu-
nity. There will be in the next Congress a
proposal to make postmasters ex-officio cus-
tom officers, authorizing them to open sus-
picious letters and packages, but this propo-
sition, if carried, would give such opportu-
nity to tamper with the mail as to be un-
likely to be received with favor.


The following paragraph is from the N.
Y. Sun, in an article entitled "Woman's
Idols." "They do not worship their idols
for what they are in themselves, but for
what they represent.  The clergyman stands
in the pulpit precisely as the actor does on
the stage, personating an ideal character
and surrounded by accessories which heigh-
ten the effect of his performance.  It is not
surprising that the unsatisfied yearnings of
his flock should fix upon him as the support
and stay which they have sought in vain
elsewhere, any more than that the hand-
some actor, decorated not only with the
trappings of the outer man, but shining
with the wit and accomplishments which
the play might lend him for the moment,
would seem the long-waited for-hero of the
woman of the world. Both profit, in a
large degree, by a fact which every  man
profits by more or less, and whoever is
jealous of their success, should take a lesson
from this example.  Lovers and husbands
need only to be what clergyman and actors
seem, in order to win the same admiration,
and enjoy the same devoted attachment."
	These thoughts are from a man's stand-
point, and I suppose, as we have not the
gift which Burns craved, "to see ourselves
as others see us",(and perhaps he is as truth-
ful as the generality) it may be desirable to
be well posted in regard to the opinion of
the other sex; and if we are not, it will not
be their fault for they are eternally discuss-
ing us, in their newspapers, journals, easy
chairs, chit-chats, etc.  It would be impos-
sible to suit all sorts of philosophers, so let
us be determined to act for ourselves; be
strongminded, self-reliant, earnest, honest
and natural, and true to our best and high-
est intuitions; these are what we want,
these are what we are aiming for, and we
only desire from them, opportunity, liberty
and encouragement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	LOVERS do the cooing before marriage,
and tradesmen do the billing after it.
	As the young lady remarked about the
infant, "How sweet, but how bald for one
so young!"
	AN English editor calls a certain kind of
American Religion "pewism."
	PARSLEY is said to have first come from
Egypt, and mythology tells us it was used
to adorn the head of Hercules.
	WHAT is the difference between a fool
and a looking glass? The fool speaks with-
out reflecting and the looking glass reflects
without speaking.
	WHY should I be the happiest of all the
vowels? Because it is in the center of
bliss; while e is in hell and all the others
are in purgatory. 
	"THE hardest trial of my life," said good
old Deacon Banes, "was to shed tears at the
news that my wife's uncle had died and left
her sixty thousand dollars."
	WHAT is the difference between sperma-
ceti and a school-boy's howl?—One is the
wax produced by the whale, and the other
is the wail produced by the whacks.
	"WELL, I always make it a rule to tell my
wife everything that happens." "Oh my
dear fellow, that's nothing!" replied his
friend. I tell my wife lots of things that
never happen at all."
	AN American recently traveling in Lon-
don was accosted by the vender of a matri-
monial journal. "Come, sir," cried the
man, running through his list of eligible
partners, "I am sure you want to marry;
take a paper." "No, no," said the Ameri-
can; "I don't want any of your respectable
widows." "Well, sir, hif you won't 'ave a
respectable widder, take a hill-used hor-
phon."
	SAYS a Milwaukee paper: "Now, when
the soft afternoons come, adolescent couples
wander to some shady nook, and, seated on
a grassy knoll, gaze with speechless rapture
upon the greeness in each other's eyes, and
sit, and gaze, and sigh, until the evening
shadows fall; when, slowly home returning,
she tells her parents, with voice subdued
and reverent bearing, that she has been out
to the quiet abode of the dead, reading the
inscriptions on the tombstones."


﻿FLOWERS.

	DUTIES are ours, events are God's.
	A FAULT confessed is half redressed.
	THE little stream when it enters the sea
proclaims its arrival.  The river forms the
junction in silence.
	IT is only the busy and the over-burden-
ed upon whom you can throw any extra
work with some chance of its being welcom-
ed.
	WHO is wise? He that is teachable.
Who is mighty? He that conquers him-
self.  Who is rich? He that is contented.
Who is honored? He that honoreth others.
	THE web of our life is of a mingled yarn,
good and ill together; our virtues would be
proud, if our faults whipped them not; and 
our crimes would despair, if they were not
cherished by our virtues.
	THE first step toward greatness is to be
honest, says the proverb; but the proverb
fails to state the case strong enough. Hon-


esty is not only the first step toward great-
ness; it is greatness itself.—Bovec.
	EVERY man is the builder of a temple,
called his body, to the God he worships, af-
ter a style purely his own, nor can he get
off by hammering marble instead. We are
all sculptors and painters, and our mate-
terial is our own flesh and blood and bones.
Any nobleness begins at once to refine a
man's features, any meanness or sensuality
to imbrute them.
	SOMEBODY says that flowers are the "fu-
gitive poetry of nature;" and to wild flow-
ers most eminently belongs the remark.
Our cultivated flowers cannot be called "fu-
gitive poetry;" we do not find them scatter-
ed along the roadsides, smiling to the
brooks, nodding on hills to every breeze.
Not they!  They are collected and placed
in our houses and conservatories, labeled
and surrounded by the costly accessories
which belong to all volumes of collected
poetry.  But with wild flowers it is differ-
ent. We come upon them indeed, as upon
scraps of poetry tucked into the corner of
some newspaper of everyday life, and in
the one case, as in the other, exclaim in a
patronizing surprise, "Why, how pretty
that is!"


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomato Omelette.—Peel and chop five medium
sized tomatoes, season with salt, pepper and
chopped parsley; add half a cup of grated bread;
beat four eggs to a foam, stir them into the toma-
to; heat a spider hissing hot, place a piece of but-
ter therein, turn in the mixture, let it brown for
two minutes, and lap over the half, serving it in a
turnover form on a hot plate.
	Candied Honey.—The candying of honey is due
to a part of the sugar becoming crystalized.  The
honey is just as good and as pure as ever, but not
quite so pleasant to eat on account of the small
grains of sugar.  There is no way known to pre-
vent this, and the best honey, that made from clo-
ver early in the season, is more apt to be candied
at the present time than the later made.  By plac-
ing the bottle or jar containing the honey in a ves-
sel of water, with sticks under it to keep it from
direct contact with the bottom of the vessel, and
gradually heating it, the sugar will be dissolved
and the honey become clear, and last in that condi-
tion a greater or less time, according to the tem-
perature at which it is kept.  If it should become
candied again the heating may be repated.—Ex.
	African.—One cup of sugar, three eggs beaten
with the sugar, one and a half cups of flour with
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half tea-
spoonful of soda dissolved in one tablespoonful of
milk; bake in jelly cake tins, (or in a loaf which may
be cut open,) and put between the layers the fol-
lowing cream:—two and a half cups of milk scald-
ed, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls corn
starch, and one egg; let it boil until thick then
add a small piece of butter and flavor with vanilla.
For the top, make a paste of chocolate and sugar.
Grate four or five tablespoonfulls of chocolate, add
as much sugar, and wet with boiling water suffi-
cient to make a thick paste; pour this over the top
of the cake while the paste is hot.  To enjoy it in
perfection, sip with it, instead of wine, the kin-
dred liquor, Creme de Cacao, Chova a la Vanilla.
—Ex.
	Quince Marmalade.—Peel the quinces, quarter
them, remove the cores and pipes.  The quarters
should be thrown in a pan of cold spring water as
they are cut, to preserve the color. The quinces
should then be put in a covered jar, with one quart
of water to four pounds of fruit, and stewed in a
slow oven for several hours till they are quite ten-
der and of a bright red color.  When they are
thus prepared for marmalade, weigh them, and to
every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a


pound of crushed loaf sugar. Put the fruit into a
preserving-pan, and bring it gently to a boil, stir-
ring frequently all the time. Continue boiling till
the whole is quite soft and a smooth pulp, then
add the sugar, and again bring the fruit to a boil.
Continue boiling gently for twenty or twenty-five
minutes. Take the pan from the fire, and paste
down the marmalade in jars while hot, with dou-
ble papers, care being taken to have the paste
quite boiling, and to strain the papers tightly over
the jar.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	This is the proper season of the year for gather-
ing almost all varieties of herbs for medicines, and
if special attention was given to the herbs, roots
and leaves that abound in such profusion, less
medicine would be required; most herbs are now
in flower, showing they have arrived to perfection.
The raspberry leaf, which is one of the most es-
sential of home productions for many medicinal
uses, should be gathered at this particular season.
	Salt Water for the Eyes.—Many persons are
suffering pain from weakness of the eyes. This,
sometimes, proceeds from local inflammation,
sometimes from other causes. Several persons
who have thus been afflicted inform us that they
have derived almost immediate, and in some cases,
permanent relief from the application of salt wa-
ter as a bath; and when the pain has been aggra-
vated, from a compress saturated with salt water
laid on the eyes, and renewed at frequent inter-
vals. Opening the eyes and submerging them in
clean salt water has been found beneficial to those
whose eyesight begins to fail.
	Fruit as Food.—Much is now being said and
written in regard to fruit being nutritious and 
wholesome, useful for digestion on account of its
acid nature: acid from the apple, grape. orange
and lemon are equally good in this respect, accord-
ing to the best authorities on the subject of health.
As a substitute for the better fruit acids, the rhu-
barb or pie-plant may be cultivated. "This acid
is certainly a fine one of its kind." Gooseberries
are very similar in nature, and both are worthy of
being on the family list. Tomatoes also should be
prized for their wholesomeness and healthful pro-
perties. We do not, perhaps, sufficiently prize
those things which are classed as "common" and
of "no account."
	The London "Lancet" prints a warning against
the habitual use of the now fashionable hyponetic
chloral. This writer says: "Because it does not
produce the immediate evil consequences opium
does, and is a far more powerful sedative than
bromide of potassium, it has become popular and
even largely recommended by medical men; and is
also often used without advice or precaution."
He adds that in some cases it has produced death,
and in others brought into play diseases which
have proved fatal. "Still," he says, "where no
such serious results have ensued, it is surely an
injury to the nervous system." The writer ex-
plains that, in sleep, the sensory recipient and
lower motor centres are separated from those of
consciousness and will, with which, in a waking
state, they are in close connection. This separa-
tion only takes place under certain conditions,
which very much in different individuals. Chloral
introduces an artiffcial influence which separates
these forcibly, and paralyzes the will. Subse-
quently the will becomes weakened, the senses per-
verted, and action is no longer under the same
control. Ultimately, still graver consequences may
and do follow. Delirium imbecility and paralysis
of the pharynx and asophagus, are among the
symptoms of recorded cases. All the time the
craving for it increases,  and becomes as intense
and intolerable as for opium. Neuralgia and other
nervous affections will be more frequent, and va-
rious paretic phenomena which depend chiefly on
a defective will.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXHORTATION.

Keep your lamps well trimmed and burning,
	For the time is drawing near,
We know not the day or hour,
	When the Savior will appear.

But we know that He is coming;
	For His promises are sure 
Though heaven and earth shall pass away,
	Yet His word will still endure.

Then keep your lamps well trimmed and burning,
	And be ready for the day,
When we'll meet our glorious Savior,
	With His saints in bright array.

And receive the crowns and blessings,
	He has promised to the just,
Let us all press boldly onward
	Faithful to our Father’s trust.

				SARAH J. AUSTIN.
Cedar Valley, July 20th, 1875.


R. S. REPORT.

		CEDAR VALLEY, CEDAR FORT,
		June 27th, 1875.
BELOVED SISTER E. R. SNOW:
	By request of President Sophronia Cook
we send you these lines wishing to show
our appreciation of your kind visit, and
thinking you would like to hear the good
tidings that your efforts in behalf of our
Relief Society and Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association have been greatly blest.
The sisters all seem anxious to press for-
ward and do all in their power to assist in
rolling on the work, our meetings are well
attended and a good spirit prevails.
					MELINDA COOK.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	GRACE Greenwood has gone to Europe.
	MRS. Chanfrau has leased the "Varieties"
theatre for the coming season, and will as-
sume its management.
	MISS Tillie Forney, youngest daughter of
Col. Forney, is writing letters from abroad
that are highly complimented.
	MINNIE Myrtle Miller is now residing at
Port Oxford with her mother and children.
Joaquin, her quandom husband, has re-
turned from Europe, and is at present in
Boston. He will possibly visit the Pacific
Coast at no distant day.—[Northwast, Port-
land, Oregon.
	CONTRADICTORY reports in regard to
Miss Anna Dickinson adopting the life of
an actress reach us repeatedly; the Woman's
Journal says decidedly that she will make
her debut upon the stage in San Francisco.
California papers declare she will continue
lecturing, which are we to believe?
	DR. Nancie Monelle, who recently sailed
from New York, has settled in Hyderabad,
and rapidly acquired an extensive practice.
She has opened a dispensary in one of the
bazars, and it is now so crowded that she is
about to remove to a much larger house.
Among her patients are many native ladies
who come from great distances to avail
themselves of her skill.—Ex.
	MISS Jean Ingelow, one of the sweet poets
of modern times is a native of Boston, Eng-
land, and passed her early life amidst
its quiet surroundings in the usual home
avocations of the English girl. She is now
about forty-five years of age and lives with
her widowed mother in a quiet and retired
part of London, whereas she has said "all the
houses are with window boxes full of flow-
ers."
	MRS. Myra Bradwell, of the Chicago Le-

[Column 2]
gal News, procured copies of the laws
passed at the late session of the Illinois
Legislature, and had them published in
book form in less than two weeks after the
adjournment of the session. This is a work
that has generally taken the State nearly
two years to perform. Mrs. Bradwell's
edition of the laws is furnished with head-
ings and annotations, and the work is very
creditable to this talented and energetic
woman.
	LADY Jane Franklin the enthusiastically
devoted widow of the Arctic explorer, died
in London July 18th, she has left nothing
untried within her reach and means, to find
and bring back the remains of her lost hus-
band, and show to the world the work done
by his expedition. She equipped and fitted
out the Pandora which recently left Ports-
mouth in this intricate search, and at the
time this new voyage of discovery was en-
tered upon, she was lying upon her death-
bed. Such examples of devotion are rare
indeed.
	WOMEN are coming more and more to
the front. In this season of commence-
ments we find one college after another
wheels into line. Among them is Wilson
College, at Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.
Eleven young ladies graduated, five taking
the degree of Bachelor of Arts, and the re-
mainder that of Bachelor of Science. The
motto of the class, "Eis ta anothen" ("To
the things above"), was arched in  green
over the rostrum of the hall where the di-
plomas were given.—Ex.
	MRS. Annie Besant, of London, England,
is making a great reputation as a radical
writer and speaker. She is said to have the
highest culture, and is acquainted not only
with the various European languages, but
with the bearings of their literature upon the
subjects in which she is particularly inter-
ested. She is beautiful, being less than
thirty years of age, and with the soft, clear
eyes, rich brown hair, delicate oval face, and
refined features, which make the best type
of English beauty. She is rather under the
average size, and  dresses with good taste
which can only be ascribed to the influence
of education in Paris, acting upon a mind
naturally endowed with a fine artistic sense.
She stands on the platform habited in  
rich, black silk skirt and black velvet basque,
with a white lace ruffle around the neck.
There is no gesticulation, and yet a slight
bending forward of the form, or an uncon-
scious movement of the shapely head, or of
the mouth, the flashing of the sparkling eye,
as the telling arrow of logic or wit speeds
from the arch lips, do more effective
work than all those gestures which are the
mere accompaniments of mere declamation.
Although she is in sympathy with the move-
ment for the enfranchisement of her sex,
her main work is that of a religious free-
thinker and republican reformer.—Ex.


POPPING THE QUESTION.

	In olden times it was the fashion for a
suitor to go down on his knees to a lady
when he asked her to become his wife,
which, with very stout gentlemen was an
uncomfortable proceeding. The way in
which Daniel Webster proposed to Miss
Fletcher was more modern, being at the
same time neat and poetic.
	Like many other lovers he was caught
holding a skein of thread or wool which the
lady had been unraveling. "Gracie," said
he, "we have been untying knots. Let us
see if we cannot tie  one that will not untie
in a lifetime." With a piece of tape he


fashioned half a true lover's knot. Miss
Fletcher perfected it, and a kiss put the
seal to the symbolical bargain. Most men
when they "pop" by writing, are more
straight forward and matter-of-fact. Rich-
ard Steele wrote to the lady of his heart:
"Dear Mrs. Shurlock (there were no Misses
in those days,) I am tired of calling you by
that name; therefore say the day when you
will take that of madame. Your devoted
humble servant Richard Steele." She
fixed the day accordingly, and steeled her
name instead of her heart to the suitor.
					FLORAL CABINET.


﻿CLUB BATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	 $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.
			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
					AND
			GENERAL DRY GOODS.
	Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN.
				FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		FEATHERS, WALL PAPER,
				AND
			BABY CARRIAGES!
	75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

