Vol. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1875. 	    No. 9.


For the EXPONENT.
			AUTUMN.

In the mellow sunlight of the Autumn brown,
When the golden sheaves the reaper's harvest crown,
And the "sere and yellow leaves" rustle 'neath our feet
We recall past mem'ries, tender sad and sweet.
Visions of our childhood, dreamy, bright and gay
Come again as erst in fancy's bright array,
And the glowing picture touched with rays of light,
From the years long gone, bursts upon our sight.

The morning birds sung sweeter then their tuneful praise,
And woodland, grove and valley echoed with their lays;
While in joyous answer, ev'ry pulse was beating,
Each melodious strain of the bird-note greeting;
Little recked we then, of toilsome years to come;
O the blessed memory of our childhood's home,
How it clusters, round us 'midst the fallen leaves.
And the spell enchanting which our fancy weaves.

As the shades of evening, shadows dimly cast,
There comes a gentle whisper breathing of the past,
And a voice prophetic, sighing 'mong the trees
Sounds a mournful requiem with the passing breeze,
And to meditation are our spirits led,
Involuntarily our thoughts are of the dead,
And we question, asking of "our Father" where
Are OUR DEAD, the fondly loved, the beautiful and fair?

O what mighty lessons nature doth impart,
In its silent language speaking to the heart,
Of a living presence, all unseen, prevading here,
Spirit intuition of a higher sphere.
Who shall say there lingers not a latent thought within
Of the spirit home, where free from pain and sin
We dwelt in Paradise--consenting thus to come,
To fill a FOREIGN MISSION, a pilgrim from our home?
									EMILE.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 29th, 1873


[column 1]
REMARKS ON THE RESURRECTION.

		SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 13, 1875.

PRESIDENT B. YOUNG.

	My Dear Brother—In accordance with your
wish, I beg leave to present the following views
of an article in the Woman's Exponent of Sept.
1, 1875, and bearing the signature of Miss Eliza
R. Snow, entitled, "Mortal and Immortal Ele-
ments of the Human Body."
	Permit me here, Sir, to premise that I regret
exceedingly being under the necessity of differ-
ing from my dear Sister Eliza Snow, whom I
have always esteemed, and do now consider
to be one of the most upright, intelligent, hon-
orable and exemplary ladies in the world; but
as it is principle that we are all after, and one
of the great fundamental truths of heaven is
involved, I am sure that she, in common with
all lovers of truth, will excuse me for the free-
dom I have taken with her expressed and pub-
lished views. We have always been taught
that Jesus holds the keys of the resurrection,
and, as there are principles involved that con-
cern all the inhabitants of the world that have
lived, or do live, it is important that we do not
make mistakes on so grave a matter.
	In the above named article we are told that
"we are in possession of a very important and
beautiful principle, which pours a flood of light
into the mind,' &c. And again, "But, thanks
be to God for the key which solves the mys-
tery." Every organized human body, inde-
pendent of the spirit (which is a separate organ-
ization), is composed of two distinct grades or
classes of matter, and in such mutual combina-
tion as to serve the purposes of this lower ex-
istence. I beg here, Sir, to refer you to the
article, and will say, that if God had given
revelation, presented a key unfolding the mys-
teries of the resurrection, I would bow in hum-
ble submission; but I know of no such prin-
ciple, nor key; nor do I believe that any such
has been revealed, for which I have the most
satisfactory reasons. In the first place, I ought
to have known, in common with my brethren,
if such a principle had been revealed; and again,
[column 2]
it is in conflict with all the revelations and
teachings we have had on this subject.
	On reading the article the following thoughts
occurred to me—what did the spirit obtain by
taking a body? Was it not a body of flesh and
bones and blood? Did man ever possess any
other kind of body? Paul says, "The first man
Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam
was made a quickening spirit." 1 Cor. xv, 45.
	"The first man is of the earth, earthy; the
second man is the Lord from Heaven." Was
the Lord's body different from ours? He was
born of a virgin, and passed through all the
phases of birth, childhood, and manhood; he
ate and drank and slept; he lived and died as
man, and as man was resurrected; he ate after
his resurrection. "They gave him a piece of a
broiled fish, and of an honey comb. And he
took it, and did eat before them." Luke xxiv,
42-3 He also said to his disciples, "Behold my
hands and my feet, that it is I myself : handle
me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and
bones, as ye see me have." Ver. 39, 40. "Then
said he to Thomas, "Reach hither thy finger,
and behold my hands; and reach hither thy
hand, and thrust it into my side." John XX,
27. Was not this the same body? Were there
"two distinct grades or classes of matter" here,
as stated in that article?
	We are again told, "The graves were opened,
and many bodies of the saints which slept
arose, and came out of the graves after his
resurrection, and went into the Holy City, and
appeared unto many." Matt. xxcii. 52-3.
These resurrected bodies also appeared to many
and were known by them. There was no
"precious germ of an immortal tabernacle," as
stated in that article, but a tabernacle com-
plete; seen, known, felt, moving, speaking and
eating, at least with Jesus. What of Jesus'
tabernacle? We are told that he was "anointed
with the oil of gladness above his fellows.'
We are also told that "if the same spirit dwell
in you that raised up Christ from the dead, it
shall also quicken your mortal body." Did
Jesus and will man have a glorified body?
	Yes; but that certainly did not rest in the
grave. Is there, as stated, "a precious germ,"
or spiritual body, separate and distinct from
the above? If so, does it die, and where is it?
Does it partake of the elements of nature? Is
there anything earthly that is not "gross,
divisible and transferable?" If not, can any
matter be eliminated from this gross material,
which is not subject to nature's laws? If these
"substances are borrowed," as stated, "for pro-
bationary use," where is the substance that is
not borrowed? Of what is it composed, and
where does it exist? We are, indeed, told that
the pure substance, the germ of an immortal
tabernacle, "sleeps in mother earth in ac-
cordance with celestial law." I again ask,
where is that germ and where that law? It is
a beautiful theory, pleasing and poetic. Is it
true? If these questions cannot be answered
satisfactorily, should it be published?
	Brother Joseph Smith said in Nauvoo, re-
ferring to a tomb that he had built there, that
when he "arose from his tomb he expected to
strike hands with his father, mother and
brothers, those who would be there and rise
into life with him."
	Ezekiel tells us that he saw bone come to his
bone and sinew and flesh come upon them,
and the skin cover them. Ezek. xxxvii. Paul
says, "It is sown a natural body, it is raised a
spiritual body; there is a natural body, and
there is a spiritual body." What is the natu-
ral body? The body of flesh and bones and
blood, that died and was buried. What is the
spiritual body? The same body with flesh and
bones and spirit, the spirit occupying the place
of blood. I have heard President Joseph Smith
say that spirit would occupy the place of blood.
Hence, "The first man Adam was made a liv-
ing soul, the last Adam was made a quickening
spirit." 1 Cor. xv. 45. The same body arises
with all its component parts; but spirit takes
the part of blood. Blood was the life of the
natural body, as Moses says, "But flesh with
the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat." Gen. ix. 4. "I will even set my
[column 3]
face against that soul that eateth blood, and
will cut him off from among his people. For
the life of the flesh is in the blood." Lev.
xvii. 10.
	There is also another principle mentioned by
Paul, viz., the Holy Ghost. "If the same spirit
dwell in you that raised up Christ from the
dead, IT shall also quicken your mortal bodies."
Your what? Your mortal bodies. These bodies
that have been susceptible of all the infirmities
and weakness of humanity. We are told that
"flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of
God, nor corruption inherit incorruption." But
we are not told that flesh and spirit can not
inherit the Kingdom of God. Paul says,
"Know ye not that your body is the temple of
the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have
of God." 1 Cor. vi, 19. Again, "Know ye not
that ye are the temple of God, and that the
Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" 1 Cor., iii, 16.
Now if that spirit dwells in our bodies and
quickens them as it did the body of Jesus, here
is a principle for us to reflect upon. But we
must remember that it is our mortal body that
is quickened by it, and not, as stated, "the
precious germ of an immortal tabernacle."
Brother Joseph Smith taught, "You can tell
the difference between spirits and resurrected
bodies by the touch. You cannot feel a spirit,
you can a resurrected body." Again, "A spirit
hath not not flesh and bones, as ye see me have."
Luke xxiv, 39.
	But again, Paul says, "All flesh is not the
same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of men,
another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and
another of birds." 1 Cor. xv. 39.
	Joseph Smith taught the same doctrine as
that of Paul, and stated that "The flesh of man
cannot enter into, be united with, or compose
the component parts of the flesh; but that
the elements of man's body remain distinct
from that of every other body." I have heard
you, sir, state the same thing and say that
"the component parts of man's body can never
be destroyed; and that the body will always
retain its identity." This is strictly in accord-
ance with other laws of nature, in regard to
many mineral substances, which retain their
separate identity; such for instance as gold,
silver, copper, iron and other minerals, all of
which retain their separate parts and identity,
and all of which can be separated, by a chemi-
cal process, from any one of the other. I am
inclined to think that Sister Eliza has drawn
her ideas from the above stated doctrine we can
all acquiesce in, but not in that which is super-
added.
	The Holy Ghost, above alluded to, dwells in
the body of man, and when the power of God
is manifested by Jesus Christ, who is, "the
resurrection and the life," the whole body is
quickened, as by a magnetic fire, and bursts
forth into newness of life, as stated in the Book
of Mormon—"The paradise of God must de-
liver up the spirits of the righteous, and the
grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and
the spirit and the body is restored to itself
again, and all men become incorruptible and
immortal, and they are living souls, having a
perfect knowledge like unto us in the flesh."
2 Nephi, chap. vi, par. 5.
	What have we to do with the theories of
men in regard to the reorganization and re-
surrection of the body? If God has decreed it,
and we have faith in it, will not that do?
Yet some of Nature's laws exhibit a very strik-
ing analogy. A steam engine is a beautiful
machine, and possesses great power, either sta-
tionary or as a locomotive; but its power de-
pends upon the power or action of steam; the
engine without the steam could accomplish
nothing, nor could the steam without the en-
gine. The body of man living is a magnificent
piece of machinery, the most perfect of God's
creation, and is made in His own image. His
body, however, without the spirit, is dead and
inanimate. The body dead possesses before its
decay its form, members and organs, its bones,
muscles, veins, arteries, nerves and all its com-
ponent parts; but, like the engine without


steam, so the body without the spirit is inert,
powerless and dead.  If when in action any part
of the steam engine is disorganized, it loses its
force and power; so does the body when de-
ranged or deceased; but the engine is still the 
same.  Sometimes the body is more fleshy and
robust than at other times; but it is still the
same body, and does not lose its identity. The
iron, brass, etc., of which the engine is com-
posed may be decomposed, but not destroyed;
those same properties could again be united by
chemical action; not indeed the same form
without remanipulation, but the body, being
under other and higher laws than we compre-
hend, laws associated with and governing the
principles of life, can be reorganized.  Those
laws, though strictly scientific, are beyond our
comprehension and baffle our ideas, which are
framed from a very imperfect knowledge of
some of the first and most common principles of
natural law.  Hence it is said, "No man knows
the things of God, but by the Spirit of God."
"Great is the mystery of godliness, God man-
ifested in the flesh."  Who can explain the
mystery of the formation of a shrub, a flower,
even a blade of grass?  Yet these are natural
things.  What of man, the noblest work of
God, in his organization, birth, growth, life,
death and futurity; his body and spirit; their
union, points of contact and separation; the
resurrection of the body; its reunion with the
spirit; his past, present and future? What
human philosophy can solve this problem?
What is meant by "the gross, volatile matter"
of the body or earth? Is there any matter con-
nected with man, beast, bird, fowl, fish, insect,
tree, shrub or plant: with animal or vegetable
life; or any matter of which the earth, air or
water is composed, that is not indestructible and
eternal? When "the elements shall melt with
fervent heat," will there be any part de-
stroyed? Not one particle.  If this be true in
relation to the earth, why not in relation to the
body of man?  Why should the decomposition
and changes incident to mortality render im-
possible their rearrangment, reconstruction
and reorganization?  A man can take one of the 
finest metals-gold, and by chemical action re-
duce it to a very fine powder, and blow it away
and cause it to be mixed and absorbed by other
matter; he can, by another process, gather,
separate, and restore that gold to its previous
solidity and fineness.  Cannot God do as much
with matter as man, with his limited capacity?
We are cited very correctly to a higher law,
whereby Jesus turned water into wine,
"through the agency of chemical laws of a 
higher order than those taught in the schools,"
by the concentration of elements, independent
of the process of the growth of grapes and their
manipulation into wine.  Could not the same
science and power gather the original elements
of man's body and, by a chemical, cohesive,
and attractive power, cause atom to cohere
and unite with atom, part with part; bone
unite with its bone, and sinews come upon
them, and they be covered with flesh and skin,
and stand up, as Ezekiel saw them, "a living
army?" If one can be accomplished by a su-
perior chemistry, why not the other?  Or, in
Scriptural terms, "I wi[-]l open your graves,
and cause  you to come up out of your graves.
*	*	*	* 	And ye shall know that
I AM THE LORD. *	*	*	And
shall put my Spirit in you, and ye shall live,
and I shall place  you in your own land; then
shall ye know that I the Lord have spoken it,
and performed it, saith the Lord." Ezek. xxxii,
12-14. But why should we feel ourselves
called upon to answer all the fancied objec-
tions of an assumed philosophy, in many in-
stances false; to solve its incoherent problems,
or unravel its incongruous enigmas? I do not
feel myself called upon to admit that all the
elements composing the human body pass
through all the changes assumed by what is
termed "a worldly-wise philosophy;" nor that
the principal component, constituent parts of
the human body "feed the cow, the sheep and
the goose;" nor do I believe the statement that
"we can trace the same identical matter,
divided and sub-divided."  Who can trace it?
This is mere assertion.  That the blood and
certain gases emanate from the body and
fertilize the earth would not be denied; but that
the component parts of the body do this re-
mains to be proven. If gold, silver and other
metals can be eliminated from the earth, and
other metals by chemical process, why not all
the component parts of the body by the Spirit
and power of God?  Job evidently believed in
the resurrection of his own body in its entirety.
He said, "And though after my skin worms
destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see
God: Whom I shall see for myself, and mine
eyes shall behold, and not another."  Job. xix.
26[-]7. Eaten by worms, he would still be resus-
citated and see his Redeemer with his own eyes.
Jesus says, "I am the resurrection, and the 
life."  John xi. 25. "All that are in the graves--
shall hear his voice, And shall come forth."
John v. 28-9.  Paul says that "God giveth
*	*	to every seed his own body." 1 Cor.
xv. 38.  "And the sea gave up the dead which
were in it; and death and hell delivered up the
dead which were in them." Rev. xx, 13. If
the same body be not resurrected it cannot be a 
resurrection, but a new creation.  The Prophet
Amulek, in the Book of Mormon, is very plain
on this subject; he says, "The spirit and the
body shall be reunited again in its perfect
form: both limb and joint shall be restored to
its proper frame; even as we now are at this
time.	*	*	There shall not so much as
a hair of their heads be lost; but all things shall
be restored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or
in the body." Alma, chap, viii, par. 10. Alma
says, "The soul shall be restored to the body,
and the body to the soul; yea, and every limb
and joint shall be restored to its body: yea, even
a hair of the head shall not be lost, but all
things shall be restored to their proper and
perfect frame."  Alma, chap. xix, par. 7.
Again we read-"Then shall the Jews look
upon me and say, What are these wounds in
thine hands and in thy feet? Then shall they
know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto
them, These wounds are the wounds with
which I was wounded in the house of my
friends." Doc. and Cov., sec. xv, par. 9. See
also Zech. xii, 10, and Rev. 1, 7.  There we see
that Jesus will again shew his wounds, in his
resurrected body, the same body and the same
wounds that he received at his death; his
wounded body.  And again, "For notwith-
standing they die, they also shall rise again a
spiritual body: they who are of a celestial spirit
shall receive the same body which was a natu
ral body; even ye shall receive your bodies,
and  your glory shall be that glory by which
your bodies are quickened." Doc. and Cov.,
sec. vii, par. 6. And then at the final con-
summation we are told that, "All things shall
become new, even the heaven and the earth,
and all the fulness thereof, both men and
beasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the
sea; and not one hair, neither mote, shall be lost,
for it is the workmanship of mine hand."
Doc. and Cov., sec. x. par. 6.
	All revelation gives striking evidence of the
same body, in its entirety, coming forth, not as
a germ, but in its likeness, fulness, form, parts
and personality.
	The above, my dear sir, is respectfully sub-
mitted, in which I hope I have not done in-
justice to our esteemed Sister, Eliza Snow.
		I remain your Brother,
			Very Respectfully,
					JOHN TAYLOR.
Deseret News.


66						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	Senator Morton recently delivered a 
speech at Pittsburg, Penn., on the financial
problem......Judge Harrison died of apo-
plexy at Denver......Two trapeze perform-
ers in New York fell while exhibiting and
are, it is believed seriously injured......Cali-
fornia celebrated the twenty-fifth anniver-
sary of her admission to the Union, Sept.
9th......The American Institute of Archi-
tects will hold their ninth annual conven-
tion in Baltimore for three days commen-
cing Nov. 17th......Prof. Baird the U. S.
Fish commissioner is making an exact coun-
terpart in plaster of paris of every species
of fish, for the Centennial Exhibition......
The Kanzas Central and Black Hills Narrow
Gauge Railroad Company have organized
at Omaha with $100,000......San Francisco
is to build a separate establishment for the 
colored children in her limits as the author-
ities will not allow them in the public
schools......Most of the creditors of Duncan
Shearman & Co. have agreed to the proposi-
tion of a settlement of 33 1/3 per cent......It
[column 2]
has been suggested that every theatre in
America and Great Britain in Apr. 1876,
give a performance for the benefit of the 
Shakesperian Fund.........Several hundred
boxes of a certain size, have been mnnufac-
tured by Chinese at Sacramento to convey
home to China the bodies of Celestials who
die in the United States......Forest fires
have been raging lately near Massena, N.
Y., destroying large tracts of timber and
fields of grain......The Yellow fever is again
prevailing in Mississippi and Florida......
The funeral of the late Judge Lewis Wood-
ruff of the United States Court, was held at
Collegiate Church, Fifth Avenue on the 11th
of Sept. Rev Dr. Ormiston delivered the
oration......The Palace Hotel, San Francisco,
opens to-day, October 1st, the inaugural cer-
emonies comprise a banquet and reception.
			PERSONAL.
	Edwin Booth is recovering very slowly;
it is said he will have to cancel some engage-
ments......Daniel Webster's home at Mans
field Mass. was burned on the 8th of Sept.
......The Earl of Huntington is dead......
Cardinal McCloskey will take the title of 
"The Church of Santi Marie Supre Miner-
vam.........Florence Marryatt (Mrs. Ross
Church) editor of the "London Society, is
about to make her debut on the public stage.
......Mr. Robert Dale Owen's health is im-
proving......Peter Cooper was the designer
of the first locomotive ever turned out up-
on this continent, and the first to roll
wrought iron beams for fire-proof buildings.
......Capt. Lakebirch recently celebrated his
109th, birthday at his residence in New 
York City.....Max Muller has a new vol-
ume in press on the science of language......
The Pope's health has so much improved
that he celebrated mass lately in the Sis-
tine Chapel......The Prince of Wales, dur-
ing his stay in India will be invested with
the Grand Cross of the Star of India.
			FOREIGN.
	A severe hurricane continuing two days
occurred recently, causing serious damage
to vessels at Santiago de Cuba and Celen-
fungoes.....There was a terrific gale on the 
12th of Sept. in the Mediteranean and on 
the coasts, railways in some places were
flooded and traffic interrupted, many hous-
es were destroyed......A money crisis is 
thought to be impending in the Prussian
Government......In Paris recently, the di-
rectress of a female industrial school was
fined 100 frances and imprisoned for three
months for ill-treating the children.....The
Khedive of Egypt has sent 3 men-of-war
to the Egyptian coast near Abyssinia, to
punish the blacks invading Egyptian Terri-
tory......Sir Edmond Ryan, Vice Chancelor
of the University of London, died on the
25th of August aged 80 years......There is a 
general depression in the European money
markets, owing to dull trade and fears of
political complications......A great fire oc-
curred at Paderbom, Prussia on the 12th of
Sept; 100 buildings were destroyed and 500
families made homeless.....The Prince of 
Wales expects to spend Christmas day in 
Madras, India. The reception tendered him
will be of surpassing magnificence.


AN elderly gentleman returning home
from church, began to extol the merits of
the sermon to his son. Said he:—"Jack,
I have heard one of the most delightful
sermons ever delivered before a Christian
society. It carried me to the gate of heav-
en." "Why didn't you dodge in?" replied
Jack; "You will never have another such
chance."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						67


BEAUTIFUL THINGS.

Beautiful faces are those that wear--
It matters little if dark or fair--
Whole-souled honesty printed there.

Beautiful eyes are those that show,
Like crystal panes where hearth-fires glow,
Beautiful thoughts that burn below.

Beautiful lips are those whose words
Leap from the heart like songs of birds,
Yet whose utterance prudence girds.

Beautiful hands are those that do
Work that is earnest, and brave, and true,
Moment by moment, the long day through.

Beautiful feet are those that go
On kindly ministries to and fro—
Down lowliest ways, if God wills it so.

Beautiful shoulders are those that bear
Ceaseless burdens of homely care,
With patient grace and daily prayer.

Beautiful lives are those that bless—
Silent rivers of happiness,
Whose hidden fountains but few may guess.

Beautiful twilight, at set of sun,
Beautiful goal, with race well won,
Beautiful rest, with work well done.

Beautiful graves where grasses creep,
Where brown leaves fall, where drifts lie deep
O'er worn-out lands—Oh, beautiful sleep!


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Sept. 11th, 1875, was one in which
all present manifested the utmost interest.
The Spirit of God seemed to pervade every
heart. President Mrs. M. I. Horne made
the opening remarks, in a spirit and with a 
feeling calculated to impress all present with
her sincerity and earnestness in the work
commenced among the sisters. She an-
nounced to the assembly Madame Le Vert
—who arose and spoke to them; expressing
herself pleased to meet with them; also
that she had been gratified in meeting, in
Salt Lake City, so many intelligent and 
charming ladies, and she had never in all
her travels, seen such devotion and sincer-
ity to religion, as she had seen among the
ladies in Utah; that she had also found them
uniformly charitable and benevolent, and
she said "When I am far away in my home
on the shores of Mexico, I shall ever think
of the ladies of Salt Lake with pleasure."
She closed her remarks by saying, "May
God bless you as I am sure that He will."
Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Hannah T King, Mrs. E.
S. Barney, Mrs. M. I. Horne and Br. Camp
each made remarks of an interesting and
instructive character, in regard to the Fall
of Babylon, the HOME INDUSTRIES, the 
Reformation, and various other subjects.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 18th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT: 
	A short synopsis of the Annual Meeting
of the 19th Ward R. S., held at the Ward
Hall, Aug. 18th. The house was nearly filled
by the Sisters of the Ward. Bishop A. H.
Raleigh, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. M. P. Young, were present. After
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
the minutes of previous meeting and the
three quarterly reports were read. The
three reports combined show the following
result:
Donations in Provisions............ $ 50 22
	"	" Merchandise......... 53 70
	"	" Labor..................... 10 00
		Total........................... 122 02
Disbursements to the poor.......... 121 69
		Remaining................... 1 23

[Column 2]
Cash donations............................ 38 70
For the loan of Temple Clothes...	15 00
Made by exchanges.....................	11 00
Interest on money loaned.............	 6 00
		Total.............................	70 80
Disbursed Cash............................	87 60
	Twenty-four yards of linsey and twenty-
eight and one-half yards of carpeting have
been made by the society, and two suits of
temple clothes and ten pairs of garments for
the Indians, in the nine months intervening
since our last annual meeting. President
Mrs. A. A. Pratt then said she was glad to
see so many there that did not usually at-
tend, for it must be pleasant for those who
donated to know what was done with the 
means; she would not make more remarks as
she wished to hear from others. Bishop
Raleigh gave an interesting discourse on 
the duties of women as Latter-day Saints,
and especially as wives, mothers and house-
keepers. Miss E. R. Snow said that she 
knew we were weak, frail creatures, and as
an ancient apostle said, "subject to vanity,"
but that we should not be discouraged. The
fruits of the gospel were charity, long-suf-
fering, joy and peace, but other spirits had
crept into our hearts. Our Heavenly Father
accepts of no compromise. He gives us
law and we must live up to it. We must
let Rabylon go; as he said to ancient Israel,
Choose ye this day whom ye will serve.
He has given us another chance. Let us 
awake; we have all been asleep. Let us
put on the whole armor of God. We are
not called to be judges in Israel, but Saviors
and helpmeets to do good. Have we walked
in the straight and narrow path? I think
not. We don't know each other by our
dress or looks from those in Babylon. In
Kirtland we could tell a stranger or an apos-
tate. We have got to lay off Babylon.
Pres. Young has said that he would organ-
ize the United Order here in Salt Lake city
and did not want any one to enter who was
not willing to dispense with everything that
was superfluous. Said as a community all
were together, but here they would diverge
and get so far apart they would not know
what they were doing. The priesthood is 
not going to say what we shall do. It is a 
choosing time and we should do the choosing
ourselves. Here is a mission for the sisters;
all virtuous women should be members of
the Relief Society. We have been slaves
to fashion, but must be so no more; we 
must be self-sustaining. Let the sisters
think what they can wear that is Zion made.
Said there was a sister coming from Eng-
land who can spin the silk, and machinery
was being brought to weave it. The sisters
can do a great deal about getting out the
mulberry trees. Solomon, it is said, built
the temple, but it was not so much by his 
work, it was by his influence. We must be
prayerful and humble ourselves so that God
may not have to humble us. I want my
feelings absorbed in Zion. I don't call in 
question am I able? I ask the Lord to give
me strength to do what is required of me,
but I do not wait for the strength to come
before I make the effort, we must start then 
he will help us. We want a determination
as strong as the everlasting hills, to do the 
will of God. Let us be like the holy women
of old who adorned themselves but it was
not the outward adorning of apparel. I
hope that each one of us will be numbered
with those who have oil in their lamps and
attain to a fulness in the eternal worlds.
	Mrs. M.I. Horne. I feel that the time
has been well spent and that it would be
well for us to educate ourselves in what we
have just heard; we have a great deal to do 
to qualify ourselves for the station we are
seeking to fill. If we have been extrava-

[Column 3]
gant let us learn to be economical. Let us
arouse ourselves and prepare for those things
that are coming upon us. Four or five
years ago Pres. Young called on us to estab-
lish retrenchment, and I think this is a pre-
paratory work. There is a great deal be-
fore us to do; making clothing for the In-
dians will be a great labor for us. Tempo-
ral and spiritual go together; when we are 
engaged in our household duties we can
think upon spiritual things. I am thank-
ful I am not rich, for many of those who 
are rich are waning in the faith. It is the 
poor and meek of the earth who are willing
to do what the Lord requires of them. He 
chose a poor, illiterate boy to commence His
work upon the earth in this last dispensa-
tion so that He might educate him Himself.
May it be said to all of us at the last, "Well
done thou good and faithful servant, enter
thou into the joy of thy Lord."
	Bishop Raleigh made a few remarks upon
mothers dressing their little girls as plainly
as they do their boys, etc. Pres. Mrs. A. A.
Pratt remarked that it was late and there
was not time for more to be said; thought
we had had a great deal of good instruction
and hoped we would profit by it
	Meeting closed with singing. Prayer by
Bishop Raleigh.
	With many earnest wishes for the success
of your valuable paper, and for the welfare
and upbuilding of Zion, I remain respect-
fully your sister in the Gospel,
	A.E. NEAL.

	WEST WEBER, Sept. 13th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Being a constant reader of your interest-
ing paper, and seeing the reports from the
many different societies—I wish to give you
a brief report of our small branch. Our
settlement is very scattering, and our Presi-
dent, John I. Hart, thought it would be best
to give the sisters at the East end of the 
settlement a chance to have a small branch,
so that they could do something for the
building up of the kingdom of God. As
they are about four miles from the main
part of the settlement, he went, accompa-
nied by Pres. Mary Douglas and several
other sisters, and organized a branch society.
A good spirit prevailed among them, and
they all felt that they would like to put their
mites in for the building up of this king-
dom. Our society is doing pretty well. We
meet once a week to make quilts, or do any
other work that may be needed, and once a
month as a society meeting. A few attend,
but the weather has been very dry and hot,
and as most of the sisters have small chil-
dren, that has been the [---] on of the non-at-
tendance. I think the spirit of the times
is sufficient to awaken us all up, for there is
more need of our living our religion than
ever; when I reflect and [---] the way that
we are going on I think it is displeasing in
the sight of our heavenly Father, for pride
and wickedness are on the increase, and it
becomes us as wives and mothers, to be alive
to our duties, and help to put away all that 
would be grieving to the Spirit of the Lord.
	Wishing you success, I am most respect-
fully yours. 
	PUA[--] S. HART


Holding the hand of the very sick and
the dying is a comfort unspeakable to them,
and if you are holding it and the spirit is
passing away, do not release the grasp un-
til the poor heart is at rest, for it gives the
feeling of company, of sympathy, of help.
--Dr. W. W. Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Term One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time $2.00 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. OCT. 1, 1875.


CONFERENCE AND CO-OPERATINE
		BABY-TENDING.

	CONFIDENTIAL TO MOTHERS.

	As the people are well aware, on the 6th day
of October, 1875, will open the Forty-fifth semi
Annual Conference of the Chruch of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	With feelings of profound interest for the 
occasion, the following suggestions are cheer-
fully submitted to mothers.
	The sisters, at least many of them, delight in
going to Conference, to listen to the pleasing
word of God as it issues from the lips of His
servants. But none should be so over anxious
to attend that place of divine worship and in-
struction, as to go there with children who are
too young to be kept quiet. Better stay at
home with your little ones, where they can be
comfortable and happy, than to take them to
the crowded Tabernacle where they must be
miserable themselves, and will, most likely
prove a source of annoyance to those who sit
near them.
	It is all very well for the babies to be taken
to the ladies' meetings, where there is room and 
freedom for them, and allowances can be made
for their noise. But to expect them to keep the
good order necessary in general Conference
meetings, that all who assemble for the pur-
pose may hear and be benefitted, is an absurdi-
ty. Not only so, but to take active little beings
to such a place, where they must be compelled
to sit as quiet as their fragile nerves will possi-
bly allow, and still prevent those about them
from hearing well, for two long hours, or more,
is not only a breach of good manners, but cru-
elty towards the precious darlings themselves.
	But certainly, no woman need stay at home
altogether on account of these difficulties. Two
or more mothers might together arrange a 
plan of co-operative baby-tending, whereby
each one might go to meeting a portion of the
time, and attend to the babies another portion,
while others were at meeting. In this way
enough more comfort and satisfaction could be
taken to compensate for all that might seem a
loss in not being able to be at all the meetings.


AUTUMN SEEDLINGS.

	A cherished friend writes us privily: "It
seems as though a good visit with you would
be a renewal of life to me. It is a trite saying
that 'sociability is the cream of life.' But as 
far as that goes, I have to put up with blue
skimmed milk, and that on the turn."
	Poor hungry heart! To you, and to many
like you for you are not alone in a world of
trouble, not the only one who feels at times as
though a change from the daily drudgery and


cares of life would be a most welcome rest—
and to all such we recommend a change, a rest,
certainly. Do not give way to longing after
something unattainable, at least for the pres-
ent; but set your creative powers at work and
introduce for yourself some restful changes in
the busy routine of every day life.
	Have you read your Bible lately?: If not,
begin and steal (if you must do so) a half hour
either in the morning or at evening, for search-
ing out lessons from that, suitable to your wants.
You will be sure to find something applicable if
your religious sentiments are in proper order;
and if not, the remedy for that evil will be
readily found if truly sought.
	We do not, for a moment, believe, yet it is
barely possible, that you hav’n’t a Bible in the
house, nor any means of procuring one. Then
read the next best book you can get hold of. A
hymn book even, contains hints enough of a
correct nature to keep one busy a life time
learning to put into practice; for, the world
over, it is so much easier to suggest than to do.
	But the primitive nature of man is progress-
ive. Hence, without the spirit of improvement
and the power to improve, there can be no real
blessedness; with the first in full tact, however,
the latter must be impossible. If it be your lot
to cook and wash dishes, make and mend for a
family, “week in, week out, from morn till
night,” endeavor to discover the best methods
for getting along with this very essential kind
of work. Never think of giving up in despair,
never imagine your mission an onerous one.
Consider how much more useful and ennobling
is your life than the empty career of a “fashion
butterfly” who flits about from one sweet to
another without a true relish for any, and dis-
content with all. Seek to be cheerful and make
home so for its inmates. Teach the little ones
to cultivate happy dispositions and aid their
childish endeavors. As soon as they are old
enough to understand, find them something to
do, show them how to do it and trust them.
	Now that the autumn is here with its cool
mornings and evenings, let the household hearth
be lighted up with a bright, warm fire; and be
sure to change the summer clothing for warmer
apparel in good time. It is easier, cheaper and
in all respects far better to preserve health when
you have it, than to regain it after it is lost. Be
as well prepared as possible for changes in the
weather, so that when the beautiful, merry
sunshine shall forsake the outer world for a
season, it may still beam as brightly as ever in
the heart.


A TRIBUTE AND TESTIMONY.

		FROM THE SOUTH.

PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH.

			ACROSTIC.

Prepare this sacred relic room.
Receive this holy trust O tomb!
Enshrined with love and tears,
Sad offering—dust to dust!
In memory oft will kindred hearts,
Deeming 'twas Father's will,
Embrace, though stay'd not sorrow's darts,
New light which that dear thought imparts,
Though dead, he liveth still!

Great and high honors, sweet and glorious rest,
Earned fairly here through faithfulness and zeal.
Obedience, strict integrity, the test
Required a Saints true life to seal.
God and His Councils have this record traced—
Even in their midst this friend, our friend is placed.

Admired of men for his intrinsic worth,
Loved of the Lord and all his bretheren gone.
Bereaved and sorrowing, his friends on earth,
Earth-bound remain, though strongly heavenward
	drawn:—


Reward their patience, bright Celestial birth,
	Thou glorious day, the Resurrection dawn!

	Saints, O! prepare ye! Stand no more aloof;
	Meek, wise submission like this good show;
	In anger sin not, but accept reproof,
	Taught by the Holy Spirit how to go.
	Him to rejoin on high, ye mourn below.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	The telegram announcing the death of our
well beloved and much respected President
Geo. A. Smith, although somewhat expected,
was received here on last Wednesday with
heartfelt sorrow and mourning.
	As a man deep in thought, studious in habit
combining suggestive powers with comprehen-
sive intellect, a good communicatist with care-
fully selected information, a sincere advocate
for the right, a competent instructor in all the
duties of life, an exemplary leader among the
sons and daughters of Zion—his loss cannot be
too deeply realized or too earnestly acknowl-
edged.
	As a friend, an associate, a companion and
fellow laborer in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus
Christ, I have been familiar with him over
forty-two years. His course has ever been for-
ward, he has never faltered; the shafts of death
pointed by enemies did not terrify him, their
scoffs and jeers were all unheeded and their flat-
tery had no weight. While I live, I shall cher-
ish his name with grateful remembrance.
	I am well aware that his noble character, his
blameless and most useful life need no vindi-
cating in the midst of the Latter-day Saints;
that to the wives and children of this great
friend of humanity and righteousness, to Presi-
dent Young and his other recent associates, or
to the people who knew and loved him, there is
no necessity for an obscure pen to pour forth
sympathy. Yet, from an overflowing heart, I 
felt to offer this tribute, and to bear this
testimony.
					EVAN M. GREENE.
Springdale, Kane Co. U.T. Sept. 5th, 1875.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A. BRUCE Taylor, son of Hon. John Taylor,
left this city on Monday morning, Sept. 20th,
for Ann Arbor, Michigan. He goes to study
law at the Michigan University. May success
attend his labors.

	MR. CHARLES Vivian, a character singer of
some celebrity, has been giving entertainments
recently in this city, assisted by Madame Reif-
farth who sang very creditably, especially the
aria from "Il Trovatore." Professor Hoseman
accompanied on the piano.

	PRESIDENT WELLS and the party who trav-
eled South with him, are expected to return on
the fourth, or fifth, of this month. They have 
had a pleasant journey thus far, the most beau-
tiful weather, and in all the settlements where
they have visited, the brethren and sisters have
received them most cordially, and manifested
the utmost interest in their mission and labors.

	ELDER JOSEPH F. Smith, with the company
of Saints who left Liverpool Sept. 15th, reached
New York Sunday, Sept. 26th, and Elder J. F.
Smith and F. M. Lyman left that city for Salt
Lake on Monday morning, the 27th, and will
probably arrive here this evening. The compa-
ny will probably reach here the fifth or sixth
of this month.

	TWO DAYS' meetings were held in Provo Sat-
urday and Sunday, President Young and Elder
George Q. Cannon being present; an excellent
spirit prevailed, the people being fully awake
to the reformation. At the same time, Elder


John Taylor presided over a two days' meetings
at South Cottonwood, where the spirit of re-
formation was also aroused.

	QUITE A number of serious accidents, etc.,
have occurred during the last few days; the
most deplorable circumstance being the suicide
of Elizabeth Henroid, wife of Gustave Henroid
of Nephi. From the evidence given at the in-
quest she is supposed to have been temporarily
insane. She leaves seven children, the young-
est only thirteen months old.

	WE HAVE received R.S. Reports from San-
taquin, Fountain Green, Manti and North Og-
den, which we are unable to publish in this
issue for want of space. We have also two
poems, one from North Ogden and one from
Lake Point, both possessing some merit, and
giving indications of inherent or latent genius.
We would advise both these young ladies to
cultivate their talents in this direction and not
be discouraged. It only requires care, patience
and perseverance where there is a taste for lit-
erary pursuits and genuine capital to work
upon.
	WE HAVE just received an interesting letter
from Dr. Mary J. Safford Blake of Boston,
who stopped two or three days in this city
about the middle of July, while "en route" for
the Pacific Coast. This lady is greatly inter-
ested in the Hygienic Dress Reform, believing
it to be essential to the health and physical de-
velopment of woman as well as the higher ele-
vation of character that some change be intro-
duced; also that extravagance, such as is at
present practised in the world, is ruinous to any
people or nation. She says she regrets, since
her return to Boston, that she did not make an
effort to address the ladies of Salt Lake on this
subject. The Dr. is a lady of culture and re-
finement, has traveled extensively in foreign
countries, and made the best possible use of her
opportunities. She has gained, as a physician
and surgeon, a name and reputation of which
she may justly be proud. One great charm she
possesses is her unassuming manner, although
so thoroughly accomplished, and having all the
grace and polish society and travel give.

	LIEUT. WILLARD Young, ere his recent return
to the East, was the favored recipient of a beau-
tiful testimonial of love and tender regards,
offered in the form of a social surprise party.
His sisters projected and arranged the affair;
which, though in nowise sumptuous, was in all
respects an entire success. By suggestion of
their father, President Young, the occasion
was, with but two or three exceptions, exclu-
clusively a family gathering, or to be still more
explicit, a meeting of his sons and daughters,
sons-in-law and daughters-in-law. At seven
o'clock supper was served, and President Young,
with Elders John Taylor and George Q. Can-
non, sat down surrounded by his numerous
children. Later in the evening music and
dancing were introduced. But withal there
was no boisterous merriment, no loud laughter,
no show of extravagance in any form. Not
one of the many sisters appeared in costly
apparel, though each one was neatly and care-
fully attired. A sweet peace and holy serenity
such as heavenly angels may delight to inhale
brooded over the scene; and so free was the
whole from ostentatious display, envy or strife
of any description, that the plainest, humblest
person might have felt perfectly at ease in par-
ticipating. Surely no family among the Lat-
ter-day Saints would receive ought but benefit
by copying such a meeting. And will not that
evening's entertainment be ever gratefully re-
tained in the memory of the young hero in
whose honor it was given?

	Lieut. Willard Young has been temporarily
assigned to duty near New York City, and left
Salt Lake to fill the appointment, on Monday
morning, Sept. 20th. May prosperity and bless-
ings attend him, and may he wear his laurels
nobly gained with true grace and dignity is the
sincere prayer of his friends.

	MADAME OCTAVIA Walton Le Vert, who
spent a short time in this city recently, and
gave an entertainment here in selections from
her own writings, is, by birth, education and
attainments, one of the most distinguished
ladies now living. It is said no other American
lady ever received the attention, the perfect
ovation, which characterized her visits to Eng-
land. She speaks with such remarkable ease
and fluency so many different languages, that
she easily conveys her wonderful knowledge of
books, travel, and of celebrated people with
whom she has been associated. It is useless to
attempt to give an idea of her in a few lines
here, for she would form a subject for volumes
to be written; but her life has been such an one
as few ever realize, and through it all she has
appreciated her blessings and preserved her af-
fections pure as the fountains of a young heart.
Indeed, it is difficult to realize she is no longer
young, there is such a charm and fascination
in her society. She was an intimate friend of
Washington Irving, having made the acquaint-
ance of that extraordinary man when a very
young girl. You may form some idea of her
merits and attainments from the expression of
his sentiments, which are these: "She is such
a woman as occurs but once in the course of an
empire." Henry Clay who was her warm
friend and admirer said: "She has a tongue that
never spoke evil of any one." These few words
speak louder in her praise than the adulation
of the multitudes.
	Her grandfather, Gen. Goorge Walton, was
one of the signers of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, a member of the first Congress, Gov-
ernor of Georgia, and a Judge of the Supreme
Court; he married the daughter of an English
nobleman, to whom the crown had granted
large estates in the colonies. Her father was
Secretary of state under Gen. Jackson, and suc-
ceeded him as Governor of Florida; he located
the capital of that state, and permitted his
daughter Octavia to give it a name; she chose
Tallahassee which signifies "beautiful land" in
deference to the Indians with whom she was a
great favorite, and, on account of many inter-
cessions in their behalf, they called her "the
white dove of peace."
	Among her many dear friends were La Fay-
ette, whom she knew when a child, Kossuth
Frederika Bremer, Mary Howitt, Mrs. Gros-
land, Countess Montiji and Lady Emeline
Wortley. Her book "Souvenirs of Travel" is
written in a style peculiarly characteristic of
her ardent and enthusiastic nature and genius;
it surpasses in its grand and glowing picturings
and delineations any book of foreign travels we
have ever seen.
	Madame Le Vert will probably stop here
again a few days on her return from San Fran-
cisco as she intends writing another book soon,
including a chapter on Salt Lake and its peo-
ple, which she says shall be entirely free from
prejudice. Her book is to be entitled, "The
Wonders of the Western World."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SCHOOL-mistress once asked a pupil to tell
What word the letters S double E spell.
The child was but dull, and so mistress cries,
"What is it, you dunce, I do with my eyes?"
"Oh yes!" says the child quickly taking the
	hint:
"I know the word now, ma'am! S double E
	squint.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER,

		TO MRS. MERCY R. THOMPSON.

DEAR SISTER:
	On Thursday the 2nd inst. Prest. Jos. F.
Smith learned by Cable-gram the sad news of
the death of Prest. George A. Smith on
the 1st of Sept. This great loss has cast a
fearful sadness over our hearts. Oh! what a
harvest death is gathering from among
God's Earthly Veterans.
	It seemed to me we could not spare Uncle
George, but God is with us and can raise up
another as he did when the Prophet Joseph
was taken. Times seem so precarious just
now that we need every good man, and could
spare traitors and slinks by the host. I thank
Heaven that reformation is commenced in
Zion, for there was perhaps, never a time
when it was more needed. How well I re-
member that Jedediah went from the re-
formation of "57" and now Uncle George
has gone from the reformation of "75" and
will report to the Prophet and hosts who are
faithful with him in that better land. Oh!
that I may live as Uncle George has lived,
the personification of truth, integrity and
unflinching fidelity to the work of Salvation;
loved by God and all the Saints, and when
I depart this life that I may go where he is,
and be numbered with the champions of
eternal truth.
	Our hearts are full of sorrow; but God will
comfort His people; and the fallen has not
fallen, but has stepped into another sphere
where he can do more for us, ten fold than
he could while present with us. He is out
of reach of the puny arm of persecution,
he has conquered and vanquished every foe,
God blessed forever.
	With great respect, I remain your broth-
er in the Gospel,
					F. M. Lyman.


SPATTERWORK.

	Almost every one has seen "Spatterwork,"
but not every one knows how to make it. I
make it on Bristol board, Swiss muslin, or
linen—white of course. Get fifteen cents'
worth of India ink, which will make any
amount of work, an old toothbrush and a
fine comb.
	Arrange tiny leaves—ferns, and any oth-
er delicate foliage you can find—on your
ground work, being careful not to let one
over lap another. Fasten the leaves down
by pins stuck through into a lapboard or ta-
ble, just as you want them, pressing the leaf
close to the ground work. Dissolve the ink
of water on a plate, till about as thick as
cream. Rub your brush on, and then hold-
ing it in the left hand, draw the comb care-
fully over the bristles, and the ink will fly
off in almost imperceptible spatters. Go
over and over the work till it is of a uni-
form grey: then, on taking the ferns off,
there is a clear print, looking like a photo-
graph. With a little practice one can make
beautiful mottoes for the wall. Swiss mus-
lin makes lovely tidies, with a running bor-
der round the finger-wide hem, and an ini-
tial in the middle; and linen makes bureau
mats. For cushion to match the mats, I
mean to try light green silk, "spattered" till
it is black. That would make green ferns
on a black ground.
	Another pretty leaf print is this: Grease
a clean white paper, and smoke it over a
candle till black; then press a leaf firmly on
take it up carefully, and lay on a clean white
card-board, pressing it down  hard, and you
will have a perfect print, every vein distinct
and beautiful.—The Advance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
					For the Exponent.
			LIFE LESSONS.

		By Blanche Beechwood.
						["E. B. Wells" is written in here]
			"And 'twere as vain a thing,
	To ask of nature one perpetual spring,
	As to evade those sad, autumnal hours,
	Or deem thy path of life shall bloom, all flowers"
	The spring of our life may be all beauty,
all gladness all gaiety, we may revel as in
Nature's bowers, in the centre of the garden
of Eden, where the very air is redolent of
happiness ethereal, but were this to be the
"fac simile" of our whole lives, what should
we accomplish worthy of merit? Would
this impart the strength and vigor to the
soul, that a different experience would?
Would it inspire us with a desire to study
ourselves, and search out the remote and
secluded corners of our inner life, and
help to mould our thoughts and aspirations
into a channel of higher intelligence?
	There are lessons to be learned in every
season of our lives, and an experience to
be gained, which only the incidental storms
which burst sometimes upon us, with al-
most crushing force, could ever effectually
rivet in our remembrance. A gentle, sooth-
ing rain may cool and dampen the surface,
but in a moment of time, comparatively, it
is as if it had never been; but when a
furious storm beats upon the earth, it has
left a more lasting impression.
	It is not usually until the autumn winds
begin to blow, and the summer's hey-day
past, we are fully prepared to take up the
subject of living, in its broadest and most
comprehensive sense. The experience of
former years, the bitter heartaches brought
about, it may be through our own folly or
indiscretion, the many changing vicissi-
tudes which occur even in comparative-
ly quiet lives, all have a bearing upon the
mind, and if properly appreciated, strength-
en the character, impart individuality and
fortify us against the more intense and
rude blasts of the winter of our years.
	Do we comprehend in the smallest de-
gree the purposes of God in our creation?
Do we seek to inform ourselves thoroughly
on all subjects which pertain to life and ex-
istence here? Do we consider that we are
actors in a great drama and do we strive to
render ourselves creditably in the part we
are performing—and adapt ourselves to the
time, to our fellow laborers and all the
paraphernalia with which the great stage
is endowed. If the great Author had no
ultimate object in view in giving us an ex-
istence here, then we might be excusable in
flitting from flower to flower, or wasting
precious time and throwing away opportu-
nities for improvement; or satisfy ourselves
railing against Fate, or sit idly waiting for
Providence.
	Beings endowed with superior powers
could never have been created to live a few
short years and then pass away leaving no
record of an individual existence. The
Savior said "By their fruits ye shall know
them." It is the opinion of many who are
wise and learned that woman's mission up-
on the earth, is maternity, with its minor
details, its accompanying cares and anxie-
ties, and needful exigencies; that these fill
the measure of her creation; and when this
is done, she should with becoming matronly
dignity, retire from the sphere of active life
and gracefully welcome old age.
	That motherhood brings into a woman's
life a richness, zest and tone that nothing
else ever can, I gladly grant you, but that her
usefulness ends there, or that she has no
other individual interests to serve I cannot
so readily concede.

[column 2]
	She has lived one life—and now she may
live another; not a better life, not perhaps
even so pleasing a one; not one that will
bring into play those tender and affectional
qualities which characterize the life of a
true mother, while her little ones cluster
around her heart and home, but still an ac-
tive practical life, which will develop in her
to the best advantage the experiences of the
past that will assist and benefit those who
are to follow in her footsteps. There is
practical work to do, a testimony to bear.
Let us take heed we do so faithfully.
	S. L. City, Sept. 29th, 1875.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A TELEGRAPHIC cable was laid last
month across Vineyard Sound connecting
Martha's Vineyard with the main-land.
The laying was performed in  two hours by
a United States revenue steamer.

	AT HARRISBURG Penn. Dr. J. R. Hayes
has lately invented a new apparatus for press-
ing coal dust into fuel.  The machine is
said to be simple, cheap and practicable.
It has been put in operation at the Harris-
burg machine shops.

	DR. AMES in his "Sex In Industry" tells
about the physical unfitness of women for
type-setting. There are instances enough
on record to prove that women in this pro-
fession do not absent themselves more fre-
quently than men on account of their health.

	A NEW paper is announced to appear in
Boston Oct. 25th, edited by J. M. L. Bab-
cock, it will be called "The New Age;" and
the prospectus says, is to be devoted to no
sect or party religious, political or social,
but aim at the highest comprehensive view
of all true interests in thought or action.

	THE LARAMIE Sentinel (Wyoming) gives
an encouraging account of the courts where
women had been admitted to the Grand
Jury.  With ladies in their midst, every-
thing of the nature of levity or blackguard-
ism, everything offensive to decency and
morality was banished, whereas, heretofore
the prevailing elements were drunkenness,
rowdyism, quarreling, fighting etc.

	SOMETHING NEW in the way of enter-
tainments was recently given by Mrs. Ju-
lia Ward Howe at Newport, and styled "A
Blue Tea." Each guest was required to
contribute a verse or prose article for the
occasion; one lady honored the party with a
pair of blue stockings.  Every one present
was dressed in blue and the decorations
were all of that color; knots of blue ribbon
ornamented the cream pitchers and sugar-
bowls. It was pronounced "a unique so-
cial success."


[column 1]
	THE PARADISE OF CHILDHOOD.

		"Come let us live for our children."
					FREDERICK FROEBEL.
	It may be well to give a brief rehearsal of
what I have heretofore remarked upon the
general principles of Kindergarten educa-
tion.
	The Kindergarten furnishes an interme-
diate step and connecting link between the
nursery and the school, being designed by
its founder for children of three to seven
years. The golden maxims of Froebel are:
	"play is the work of the child."
	"We must begin at the beginning."
	"Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it."

[column 2]
	Froebel's main study was to harmonize
the elements of our common human nature
—animal, intellectual, moral and spiritual—
that integrity of culture may result. He
saw these elements nascent in the child, and
that affection was the master-chord of its
being. His principle of operation is, there-
fore, love and not fear--to engage and train
the young and active faculties, not specially
to coerce them.

			KINDERGARTEN GIFTS.
	The first Gift (for the youngest children)
consists of six soft balls, over-wrought with
worsted and representing the three primary
and three mixed colors. The aim of this
first occupation is to teach the children to
distinguish between the right and the left
hand, to teach direction (right and left, up
and down); to train the eye, exercise hands,
and feet, and to name the various colors.
	The second Gift consists of a sphere, a
cube, and a cylinder, the object being to
teach form, and to direct the child's atten-
tion to similarity and dissimilarity between
objects.
	The third Gift is a large cube, divided in-
to eight small cubes, of equal size, to illus-
trate form and number, and to give the first
idea of fractions.
	The fourth Gift is a large cube, divided in-
to eight oblong, useful in teaching the child
difference in regard to length breadth and
and height, etc; and enabling him to invent a
greater variety of forms the net-work of
lines on the table before him being a con-
stant guide to their construction.
	The fifth Gift consists of thirty-nine
pieces, twenty-one whole, six half, and
twelve quarter-cubes, forming altogether one
large cube.  In addition to horizontal and
perpendicular lines, this gift introduces the
oblique or slanting line. Acquaintance is
thus made with the triangle, and is used
with children from five to six years old.
	The sixth Gift is another large cube, but
consisting of doubly-divided oblongs. This,
as will be seen, is a complement to the
fourth gift, as the fith was to the third.
	The seventh Gift consists of quadrangular
and triangular tablets of polished wood. In
the six previous gifts the child had to do
with solids. By the tablets plane surfaces
are represented, which are in turn followedby straight lines (wooden staffs) in the
eighth gift, and curved lines (rings and
half-rings of wire) in the ninth gift.
	The multiplication table can be practi-
cally taught by means of the eighth Gift, as
well as the letters of the alphabet; while the
rings of the ninth Gift, like the sticks of the
eighth, serve as an introduction to drawing,
and prepare the child for the employment,
of the drawing slates and paper, which con-
stitute the tenth gift. Even young child-
ren advance rapidly in the art of drawing
by this process of evolution, and combining
the first elements of form. The slates and
the paper are ruled in squares.
	The eleventh and twelfth Gifts consist of
material for perforating and embroidering.
In orderly sequence the child has now (al-
beit unwittingly) become familiar with cu-
bic, square (or plane), linear or spherical
proportions. With the perforating paper
and pricking-needle he is brought to the
point. Steadiness of eye and hand result
from this occupation, thus preparing the pu-
pil for various kinds of manual performan-
ces in practical life.
	The thirteenth Gift: Material for cut-
ting paper and mounting pieces to produce
figures and forms. Squares of paper are so
folded and cut as to form figures. Scissors,
rounded at their ends, are here employed


and so ingeniously turned to account as to
produce very gratifying results.
	The fourteenth Gift is material for braid-
ing or weaving with parti-colored strips.
This occupation develops the use of both
hands. The sense of beauty and apprecia-
tion of number and symmetry are nourished,
and the inventive powers of both teacher
and pupil constantly stimulated. Paper,
leather, ribbon, straw and other materials
may be used for braiding. Strips of differ-
ent widths can be used and a variety of
patterns produced.
	The fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth
Gifts consist of interlacing and jointed slats,
and paper for intertwining, wherewith geom-
etrical and fancy figures, capital letters, ang-
les, etc., are made. The main object of this
occupation is to accustom the child to a
clean, neat and correct performance of his
work. The paper strips for intertwining,
which constitute the seventeenth gift; are to
be prepared by the pupils themselves and de-
mand a considerable amount of manual dex-
terity.
	The eighteenth Gift is material for paper-
folding. This exercise has been called "a
compendium of elementary mathematics,"
lines, angles, figures, and forms appearing
in almost endless variety. Beside this, it is
preparatory to all plastic work, and gives
abundant scope for the inventive fac-
ulty of the child. Among the objects that
can easily be produced, Eroebel's manual
mentions: A tablecloth with four hanging
corners, a bird, a sail boat, a canoe, a salt-
cellar, a kite, a wind-mill, a pair of boots,
a flower-pot, a chest of drawers, etc.
	The nineteenth Gift is material for peas-
work, pieces of wire of the thickness of a
hair-pin, pointed at the ends, being inserted
in soaked peas. With these simple materi-
als a great variety of skeleton figures and
objects are formed, the peas serving as cor-
ners, and the wire as edges. Columns,
prisms, pyramids and articles of household
furniture are readily constructed by this gift,
the qualities of bodies being made palpable
in great distinctness, and the eye developed
for perspective drawing.
	The twentieth Gift is material for model-
ing, in bees' wax, clay, putty, or other plia-
ble substance; and this is done with a small
wooden knife on a smooth light board. The
use of this, although the last gift in Froe-
bel's method, is so self-apparent as to re-
quire hardly passing notice. The child is
always "at home" in the wet sand, in the
dirt and in the snow; kneading, house-build-
ing, house-keeping, making forts, figures
of man and beast, and even with its bread
crumbs making balls. In a word, it has
been well remraked that most children are
born sculptors.
	Reviewing, we find that the material used
in the occupations of the Kindergarten pro-
gress form the solid or whole, in gradual
steps to its parts, until it arrives at the im-
age upon the plane, and its conditions as to
line and point. The child is inducted into
the laws governing color; modeling; and in
boring, piercing, measuring, cutting, etc., a
foundation is laid for the after-work of the
artisan and artist—terms which, as we know,
were largely synonomous in the past, when
art was most successfuly cultivated.
	Froebel shared the lot of all great and wise
inventors, having been driven from place
to place in his own country, "with an um-
brella for his bed-room and a knapsack for
his pillow." -But the voices of nature and
revelation, especially in the great matter of
educating the young, are finding new listen-
ers and interpreters, and the ideas of Pesta-
lozzi and Froebel are prevailing to-day, in
one form or another, in almost every school.
house and seminary throughout Europe and
our own land.
	The medical profession recommended the
Kindergarten, and many of the most en-
lightened and philanthropic are giving the
subject their serious consideration. I may
instance, in conclusion, the recent action of
the Rhode Island State Medical Society,
which, among its twelve resolutions—after
stating its belief that, in the haste for
merely intellectual culture, the nervous sys-
tem is unduly developed and overtaxed to
the detriment of other portions, "thus giv-
ing rise to a long train of ills, and produc-
ing an unsymmetrical and distorted organ-
ization in the young"—it resolved:
	1st.—"That physical culture is of primary
importance, that gymnastic exercise should
be made a part of our school system; and
	2d.—That the Kindergarten system should
be engrafted upon our public school system."
					CAMILLA C. COBB.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	IN Milan at the present time, there are
said to be three hundred American girls,
studying for the lyric stage.
	MISS Amely Boelte, author of "Woman's
Labor and Woman's Mission," is now pre-
paring the fourth edition of her book
for publication.
	EX QUEEN Isabella resides in France at
Trouville, with her three daughters. When
they appear in their carriage in public, they
display the French and Spanish flags, wav-
ing side by side.

	A YOUNG Jewess named Franklin Rosa
Rubenstein who gave a course of lectures on
Science two years ago has recently received
the degree of Dr. of Philosophy from the
University of Leipsic.

	MISS GRACE Stuart made her "debut" as
an actress at Union Square Theatre New
York Monday evening August 23rd. She
is the grand-daughter of Prof. Moses Stuart
of Andover, Mass.
MISS Hannah De Rothschild has present-
ed 2,000 lbs. to the National Life Boat Insti-
tution, to establish a life boat station, in
memory of Baron Mayer De Rothschild, her
father.

	MISS Mary Seelye formerly of Cleveland,
Ohio, died recently at Mussoorie, India,
when she had just successfully entered upon
a life of usefulness. She was three years in
Calcutta as a resident physician, under the
care of the "American Woman's Union Mis-
sion." She was much beloved among the
Hindoos and her influence was most power-
ful in favor of higher development. She
was only twenty-nine years of age.


When Hayden heard his great master
piece, "The Creation," performed for the
last time, which was the fruit of nine years
toil, (during which labor, he says, before I
sat down to the instrument I prayed God
with earnestness that he would enable me
to praise him worthily,) at the words "Let
there be light and there was light," when all
the instruments were united in one full
burst of gorgeous harmony, emotion seemed
to shake the whole frame of the aged man.
His pale face crimsoned; his bosom heaved
convulsively, his eyes streaming with tears,
and lifting up towards heaven his trembling
hands, he exclaimed, "not unto me, not
unto me, but unto Thy name be all the 
glory."


HYGIENIC NOTES.

 Charcoal has been discovered to be a cure for
burns: By laying a piece of cold charcoal upon a
burn, the pain subsides immediately. By leaving
the charcoal on one hour, the wound is healed, as
has been demonstrated on several occasions. The
remedy is cheap and simple, and deserves a trial.

 Excellent recipe for children for summer com-
plaint, teething, etc. Take one ounce of anise
seed and steep it thoroughly; strain it boiling hot
over one-half ounce of Turkish rhubarb grated fine,
add one-quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda,
one-half pound of sugar, and one pint of Jamaica
rum. Give in small doses, according to the age
and constitution of the patient; for a very young
child one-half teaspoonful three or four times a day
—for an older one a teaspoonful, and so on.

 The following is an excellent receipt for canker,
and is good for children troubled with diarrahea
when there is no sign of canker: 1 oz of golden
seal, 1 oz of baberry bark, 1 oz of gum myrrh, 1 oz
of ladies slipper, 1 oz of garden sage, 1 oz peach
blossoms, or 2 of the leaves, 1 oz red willow bark.
Add water and steep, then pour off and boil down
to one quart; sweeten with honey, or white sugar;
add liquor enough to keep it from souring. Dose,
one-half teaspoonful for a child one year old.

 A Bran Bed for Burns.—The Sanitarian says
that in cases of bad scalds of children, in which a
large part of the body is involved, it knows of no
dressing so good as a bran bed; that is, a bed of
bran in which the patient may lie, and be covered
with a thick investment of the same. This dress-
ing has the advantage of not requiring change, for
each day as the moist particles fall off they can be
replaced with fresh bran, without disturbing the
patient. One of the severest cases of scald re-
covered by this treatment. A great deal of harm
is done to patients by frequent dressings, and any
method that obviates this is most desirable. Pa-
tients frequently are exposed for hours to the ac-
tion of the air, suffering unnecessary pain by the
old and tedious process of dressing. The air it-
self does no injury, but the extreme hyperasthesia
of the skin produces a state of nervous tremor
which leads to exhaustion.—R. N. Y.


In the Cathedral of Limerick there hung
a peal of bells which it is said, were brought
from a convent in Italy, for which it had
been manufactured by an enthusiastic Ital-
ian, with great labor and skill. * * * *
After a long interval, the course of his wan-
derings brought him to Ireland. On a calm
and beautiful evening, as the vessel which
bore him floated along the broad stream of 
of the Shannon, he suddenly heard a peal
from the Cathedral tower.  They were the
bells—the long-lost treasures of his mem-
ory. *  *  Crossing his arms upon his
breast, he laid himself back in the boat, and
gazed and listened.  When the rowers
looked around, they saw his face still turned
toward the Cathedral, but his eyes had
closed forever on the world.  Such a tide of
memories had swept over the sympathetic
chords of his heart, that they had snapped
under the vibration.


A GERMAN pedlar sold a liquid for the 
extermination of bugs. "And how do you
use it?" inquired the man, after he had 
bought it. "Ketelrite but, and drop von
little drop into his mout," answered the
pedlar.  "You do!" exclaimed the purchas-
er.  "I could kill it in half that time by
stamping on it."  "Vell," exclaimed the
German "dat is a good vay, too."


72  WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S. P. TEASDEL'S.
Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduce 1 Prices.  Boys' and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
S. P. TEASDEL
CALL AT
TAYLOR & CUTLER'S 
AND SEE THEIR LARGE STOCK OF
GROCERIES, DRY GOODS, BOOTS AND 
SHOES, CAPS, CLOTHING, &c.
At Greatly Reduce Rates.
MILLINERY,
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No.[-]7,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.
Z. C. M. I
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &C.
O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second, South Street, Opposite Walk
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for
ONE YEAR.
IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S,
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.
THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.
Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of 
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.
LADIES
if you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER AND EGGS,
F. GOSS, Supt.
EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND
BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


FLOWERS.
WE forgive too little: forget too much.
THE innocent seldom find an uneasy pil-
low.
THE who receives a good turn should nev-
er forget, he who does one should never re-
member it.
THE human soul, like the water of the 
salt sea, becomes fresh and sweet in rising
to the sky.
THE labor of the body relieves us from
the fatigues of the mind, and this it is which
forms the happiness of the poor.
LOVE is described by SIMMS, in a semi-
poetical style, as "but another name for that 
inscrutable presence by which the soul is
connected with humanity."
SOME one to love! It is the cry of the 
human soul, the note to which every human
heart responds; the bond which will bind us
all together in that other world where
mourners will be comforted and love shall
reign forever.
THERE exists an element of real polite-
ness that is nearly allied to love; it is inher-
ent in some noble natures, but is still capa-
ble of cultivation, and from this fresh spring
in the human soul, emanates the most genu-
ine politeness, which actuates the conduct
of man, or woman.
EVERY song soothes and uplifts; at times
a song is as good as a prayer.  Indeed, a
song of the pure kind recognized in Script-
ure, is akin to a petition, which is also in
the spirit of thanksgiving.  The "sweet
singer of Israel" wedded his sincerest pray-
ers to melody and wafted them upward on 
the night air from his throbbing heart.
THE first use of education is to enable
us to consult with the wisest and the great-
est men on all points of earnest difficulty.
To use books rightly, is to go to them for
help; to appeal to them when our own
knowledge and power of thought fails; to be
led by them into wider sight, purer concep-
tion than our own, and to receive from
them the united sentence of the judges and 
councils of all time, against our solitary and
unstable opinion.—From Ruskin.


"EVERY tree is subject to a disease,"
said a speaker in a fruit-growers' conven-
tion. "What ailment can you find on the 
oak?" asked the chairman. " A-corn," was 
the triumphant reply.


A CHICAGO man excuses himself for not
going to some watering-place by saying he
fell into the river last May and got enough 
to last him a whole year.


IT is reported that a fat woman in Ore-
gon recently shot her recreant lover with a 
pistol, but it is unlikely. How could a
really fat woman carry small arms?


ALOFT on the throne of God, and not be-
low, in the footprints of a trampling multi-
tude, are the sacred rules of right, which 
no majorities can displace or overturn.-
Charles Sumner.


FIFTY-TWO boys at Great Falls have
signed a pledge to drink nothing stronger 
than coffee and tea, and to abstain from
vulgarity in every form. They have styled 
themselves the "Boys Reform Club."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

 Waffles.-One quart of flour, one pint of sour
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, four eggs, a piece of
butter the size of a large egg, and a little salt. 
Bake in waffle irons. Sour cream and less butter
improves them.

 To Scramble Eggs.-Break 12 eggs into a bowl
add a tablespoonful of salt, beat them for a min-
ute or two, put a lump of butter as large as an
egg in a farina boiler, or put a tin saucepan into
a skillet partly filled with water, as a substitute for
a farina boiler, pour in the eggs and stir constantly
until they are cooked. They should not be too
moist not too dry. Serve in a hot dish with or
without buttered toast underneath them. Anoth-
er recipe says: - Have a spider hot and buttered;
break the eggs into a dish being careful not to 
break the yolks: slip them into the spider, add a 
very little salt, with butter the size of a nutmeg
for a half  dozen eggs or three tablespoonfuls of 
cream. When the eggs begin to whiten, stir 
carefully from the bottom until cooked to suit.
The yelks and whites should be sparated, though 
stirred together.
	Omelette.-Take six eggs, beat the whites and 
yelks separately, beat in with the yelks a table-
spoonful of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt; 
have ready your omelette pan (or skillet) hot, with 
a tablespoonful of butter in it; beat the whites and 
yelks together and pour in. During the frying 
move the pan continually to and fro, so that what 
is below may come to the top again. When the 
omelette is nicely browned on the bottom, fold it
over with a cake turner, slip it on a hot plate and 
eat immediately. Soyer says an omelette pan
should be free from damp.  He puts it on the
fire with a little butter to get hot, removes it, and 
and wipes with a dry cloth before putting in the 
eggs.


THE brave only know how to forgive; it
is the most refined and generous pitch of
virtue human nature can arrive at. Cowards 
have done good and kind actions-cowards
have fought, nay, sometimes even con-
quered; but a coward never forgave. It is
not his nature; the power of doing it, flows 
only from strength and greatness of soul,
conscious of its own force and security, and 
above the little temptations of resenting
every fruitless attempt to interrupt its hap-
piness.-Sterne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

