VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1876.	No. 17.


LINES, 

 DEDICATED TO BISHOP NATHAN DAVIS
ON HIS RESIGNATION OF THE BISHOPRIC
OF THE SEVENTEENTH WARD, AND THE
PRESENTATION OF A PICTURE.
       
        Dear friend, as we must sever,
	 The ties we formed so long ago.
	Deep in our hearts thy memory ever
	 Will be stamped—as ages flow.

	Like a father, kind and gentle
	 Thou hast ever been, and true,
	And with kindness and affection
	 We have ever looked to you.

	Of our number one has left us
	 Since that evening long ago,
	When thou gav'st to us thy blessing-
	 And our hearts have ached with woe,

	E'en as Jacob for his Rachel
	 Toiled seven years to gain her hand,
	So Eliza, "bless her memory"
	 Strove to reach the "Promised Land,"

	As a token of affection
	 And regard we have for you,
	We present this picture asking
	 Heaven's choicest blessing too.

	And now the parting sad is spoken,
	 And we thy sisters of the Ward,
	Have said "Good Bye" in tones all broken-
	 And leave thy future with the Lord.

	Of thy life the better apart
	 Thou hast spent in earnest toil
	In the Vineyard of thy Master,
	 Sewing deep in Heavenly soil.

	Thy reward is sure aud certain
	 When thy work on earth is done,
	Treasures bright and everlasting
	 In the land of Noon-day Sun.

	Thou wilt have the glad word spoken,
	 "Faithful servant welcome home"
	For thy life work, ever trying
	 Has been well and nobly done.

						MRS. C. A. ALDER
Dec. 24, 1875.
	*Sister Eliza A. Felt, died June 19th, 1875, Treasurer
of the Society.


[Column 1]
SEND HIM THE PROOF.
	Governor Emery in his message, as re-
ferred to by us yesterday, made a statement
about the young men and women born and
reared in Utah, which ought not to pass with-
out further notice. In addition to our de-
nial of the Governor's charge of their ignor-
ance, we now take occasion to say that we
could produce a great number of young
men, born and reared in Utah, who could
read the message he delivered on Tuesday
in a far better manner than the Governor's
own style of communication. And further,
that there are many young ladies, born and
reared in Utah who excel the Governor in
the art of reading, and equal him in the art
of composition.
	The gentleman may not believe this. We
should like him to be convinced. It is not
probable that he will accept our statements,
in opposition to the allegations of those who
have taken the trouble to influence him by
misrepresentations. We propose that he
shall receive convincing evidence. We rec-
ommend that a number of young men and
ladies, born and reared in Utah, write to the
Governor over their own signature, and
prove to him whether, upon entering on the
duties and obligations of life, they are "des-

[Column 2]
titute of the simplest rudiments of educa-
tion." If they will furnish copies to the
Junction, we promise to publish them, un-
less they pour in too great numbers, in
which case we will refer to them and pub-
lish the names of the writers.
	We know that there are a great many pu-
pils of the Ogden Seminary, of both sexes,
who are fully competent to give any reason-
able person ample proof that the Gover-
nor's statement is incorrect, and that he has
been wrongly informed.
	Utah has no reason to be ashamed of a
large portion of her youth, nor of their ed-
ucation. Driven from their possessions by
ruthless mobs, the early settlers of this Ter-
ritory could offer few facilities for the edu-
cation of their children. But such as were
possible, under the peculiar circumstances
which surrounded them, were extended,
and the wonder is that they did so well.
As years rolled on and conditions changed
and improved, the cause of education ob-
tained greater attention and assistance, and
during the past few years opportunities
have been placed within the reach of the
rising generation to become acquainted, not
only with the "simplest rudiments" of edu-
cation, but with the higher branches of
learning, such as are not afforded in little
country villages, of similar size and popu-
lation to ours, in older settled districts.
	The hue-and-cry that has been raised
about education in Utah, and the animad-
versions of a few brawlers who are on the
lookout for an official position to secure that
bread and butter which they will not earn
by the sweat of their brows are as unjust as
other calumnies against the old settlers of
this Territory; and we hope the Governor,
on better information, will refuse to be in-
fluenced by the reports of the people's en-
emies.—Ogden Junction.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS.
	A NEW daily paper in Middletown Conn.,
has recently been established; a woman's
paper advocating Woman's Suffrage. It is
called the "Sentinel."
	A MASS convention was held in Denver
on the tenth of January last, by the Suffra-
gists to secure Woman's Suffrage in the new
constitution.
	A BRONZE statue of Cromwell has been
presented to the city of Manchester Eng-
land, by Mrs. Abel Heywood. It is nine
feet high and weighs more than a ton,
and rests on a block of rough hewn granite.
Cromwell is represented in the military cos-
tume of the period, and his features are
dignified and impressive. The cost of the
statue is 8,000 dollars.—Ex.
	IT IS reported that the volcano of Vesu-
vius gives signs of an approaching eruption.
The large crater which has been formed
since the last disturbance emits a black
smoke, which has invariably been a symp
tom of volcanic activity, although it is im-
possible to tell what time may elapse before
the actual eruption takes place. Similar
appearances were noticed in Dec. 1851, but
real action did not commence until May,
1855.

[Column 2]
	ONE OF the literary memorials of the
Centennial cannot well fail to prove highly
interesting, viz. a "History of the United
States," now being pushed to completion by
William Cullen Bryant, the poet-journalist,
and Sidney Howard Gay, for many years
managing editor of the New York Tribune.
This history gives a large space to the pre-
historic races of Amerca, the mound-build-
ers, and those of the Old World, people
who came to America before Columbus.
Mechanically, the work is an extensieve en-
terprise in book-making. It will be com-
pleted in four octavo volumes of 600 pages
each, and the first cost of the work will
reach $100,000.
	THE MARRIED Women's Property Com-
mittee in England consists of twenty-five
members; among them are Sir Charles W.
Dilke, Bart., M. P.; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob
Bright; Miss Frances Power Cobbe; Mrs.
Wolstenholme Elmy; Miss Josephine E.
Butler, well known to the world. This
committee have issued a circular, which il-
lustrates something of women's work in
Great Britain. This circular is not political
and yet is equally important, and insepara-
ble from the Suffrage Movement itself.
The object is an amendment of the Woman's
Property Bill, to secure as a married wo-
man her own property, and to make her
liable for her own contracts as if she were
a single woman." It is anticipated the
amendment of this bill will be introduced
at the beginning of the next session of
Parliament by the Right Hon. Russell Gur-
ney, M. P. if he is in England then, if not
by G. J. Shon Lefovre Esq., M. P. In 18-
70, The Married Woman's Property Bill that
was passed, although a very defective aud
and inconsitent one, and differing widely
from the bill which they had endeavored to
promote, yet conferred an immense boon
upon women of the working classes. They
insist that the consequence of that bill was
that a similar measure was passed by the
Legislature in Victoria (Australia) and also
in Ontario, (Canada) and also caused an
amendment of the law which had been ac-
cepted by the Swedish Legislature. There
is no doubt that all these movements carry
an influence and that those who work for
the elevation of woman and the recognition
of her rights in any country, are also work-
ing for all.


THERE IS much of our early gladness that
vanishes utterly from our memory; we can
never recall the joy with which we laid our
head on our mother's bosom, or rode on
our father's back in childhood, doubtless
that joy is wrought up into our nature, as
the sunlight of long past mornings is
wrought up in the soft mellowness of ripe
fruits, but it is gone forever from our imag-
ination, and we can only believe in the joy
of childhood. But the first glad moment
in our first love is a vision which returns
to us to the last, and brings with it a thrill
of feeling intense and special as the recur-
rent sensation of a sweet odor breathed in a
far-off hour of happiness. It is a memory
that gives a more exquisite touch to tender-
ness, that feeds the madness of jealousy,
and adds the last keenness to the agony of
despair.


130	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.
	The minutes of the young ladies' meet-
<th'feni‘'liiav6' b’ebiij="" ¥e-b'dptd="" -f="" .qilr1:="" meetirigsarid'ae="" 11y"ait6ndetl'a="" g5671="" '‘spirit'="" prev'ails.1="" [vd="" 'hdve="" dxdell'dnl="" ‘ihsvjnlctio'nd!="" 1="" from="" b'ur="" fr'csident11="" ml-si="" ‘="" maj'aj="" ivhydbi'1="" the1="" people="" irt="" ;="" gfehvral="" 6h]dy="" :1goo'dh'diiltli0="" m'ufcli="" more="" sd:fmh="" tli6y="" havbjd6rie'’mj!pfe:'1="" vibud'aintdr1="" jl="" jwsr:up?rtf="" loiaosi="" ao-i.="" in="" we:hhvb="" had="" an'‘ekiellchf="" tjtichersieci="" lgvto-day,="" rn="" which="" the'spirii'="" off="" godovas1'1="" vu="" society="" vas="" organizedrand="" there="" never="" beenfilscbvlforiu,="" dlssenyfng="" m)ibfe="" ihhdllr="" nyfiry.="" callhad="" been="" com.="" plied="" witiureadily,="" qs="" far="" as="" it="" wa3="" possible="" oni="" ci="" koipos="" :l-:ru:l="" i-werei;ilthw:':="" ..="" seerbtary.="" -no="" ,01="" ):lt="" tbiiw-'q="" p="" —'wt?..-to="" on="" j;va="" r-="" 118707'’="" dear'tex:="" ’bxnt:="" ,;i="" u="" '-="" the="" young="" eadlbv'liuehenilcht',oti="" ty="" bf,rstirbharle.<i:="" bbar'.="" rlvnrv="" aivr.'rrtl.'at="" tfith="" fl1="" cietyr="" territory,="" was="" !uorgiiniibd="" th;j="" 3875v="" by;'siwr="" weslnclltimhbll.="" 'iiri="" a’jl="" jfiss="" airiy="" tj.="" lakerbresld'enlr,="" noivf="" i!-="" i-f="" :i="" a="" :="" ,.<.="" ru.1="" juomoji.jt!="" j'io!="" mrs.="" nancy="" e.="" pugrntrc,,..="" v[3mnv="" n-=""><ilefy; som;e.ofj="" the="" ybung'ladies="" gathered="" stravv:="" last?="" imbr'and="" we="" 'brd="" preparing1="" tohave;="" itiftiirili’j-d="" ifactqrecl="" into="" hats.="" slstbr="" bresinda="" kihdt="" ball'gavo="" us'sbtrib'bxdellbrtt!nsvrtifctlbtis'drid--="" advice="" while="" hcrlh="" tiitdf="" i="" think="" ‘if="" will="" h'dsd'="" a="" lastvng="" irapressioh="" ort’="" thb="" :mihtis,jbjthhgb="" -'="" avho="" worb="" present,="" ‘"="" i’he="" has="" tilde:="" 'best="" avistfb1bf,ihfe‘s6bl6(y="" -fbi’its="" ildvitnce1'="" mehtl,:l="" '="" ’1="" c="" i.a="" -="" orif="" bjuiliu;:e="" llsfirf,.'sbcv.lita:f:="" oiti="" no="" oi:="" otivv="" ctolvvmj="" 't="" <;="" lo="" -n.iriov="" idefe="" aiko="" j.jn="" ffi="" ,v="" nit="" j;="" idm="" m:="" bi:id="" jbel(the="" many="" friondsi="" of;thetreliehso-1.!="" cisties="" avbulddje="" gfilduodearn-through;="" yourjo="" valuable="" paper="" how?="" wo="">ings, which were read in the General Meet-
ing in the Fourteenth Ward, on Saturday,
Jan. 22nd, were peculiarly interesting and
instructive. Most of the wards in the city
were represented, and the rapid improve-
ment which, as was clearly evinced, is be-
ing made by the young ladies of the Re-
trenchment Associations, is really pleasing,
and would be surprising to one unacquaint-
ed with the fact that GOD is with them, 
strengthening and enlightening their minds.
—The testimonies borne by many of the sis-
ters, were also exceedingly gratifying. 
President Mrs. M. I. Horne not being pres-
ent the meeting was conducted by Counsel-
or Miss E. R. Snow, who spoke encourag-
ingly of the progress of the young in Zion,
and exhorted her sisters to be diligent and
faithful. She also spoke concerning the Cen-
tennial, and was anxious that the ladies of
Utah should make as fair representation as
possible, considering the little time existing
between the present, and the time for the
opening of the Exhibition at Philadelphia.
Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball also spoke
in a spirited and patriotic manner concern-
ing the Centennial Exhibition; felt, as she
was sure every intelligent person must feel,
an individual interest in this great Nation-
al affair. 
	SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 24th, 1876.
	The Relief Society of the Eighth Ward
met on the 6th of Jan. 1876 for their Annu-
al Meeting. After the opening of the meet-
ing the receipts and disbursments of the
year were read and showed that considera-
ble had been done in this ward. Our Presi-
dent Mrs. Leaver and Counselors Needham
and Steel are faithful in looking after the
poor and sick. The Spirit of the Lord is
with us, and we have good meetings. Many
are renewing their covenants and are de-
termined to live up to the principles of the
Gospel. After the business of the meeting
was attended to, Sisters Young, Howard,
Goddard and Park addressed the sisters and
gave good instructions. Sister E. S. Bar-
ney read a circular from the Ladies Depart-
ment, Territorial Board of Managers, solici-
ting the energetic co-operation of the Re-
lief Societies in preparing specimens of
HOME INDUSTRIES both useful and ornamen-
tal for the National Centennial, and that a
committee be appointed in each ward for
the purpose of accomplishing as soon as pos-
sible the articles to be forwarded to the 
TREASURER. Sister Annie Cross and Esther
B. Fletcher were appointed as Committee
for the Eighth Ward Relief Society. Bishop
Sheets desired the sisters to retrench in all
things, and to live their religion, and try to
be faithful to the end and left his blessing
with us. 
	ESTHER B. FLETCHER,
	Secretary.
	SPRING CITY, SANPETE Co. Jan. 10[-]76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters here are alive to their duties,
they are striving to do all they can to for-
ward the work they are engaged in; the
most of them have been re-baptized. Our
meetings are well attended, a good spirit
prevails. We have excellent instructions
from our President Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde.
The people in general enjoy good health,
much more so than they have done in pre-
vious winters.
	We have had an excellent Teachers Meet-
ing to-day, in which the Spirit of God was

[Column 2]
greatly manifested. Pres. Mrs. Hyde pre-
sented the CIRCULAR which had been sent
to the Society concerning the Centennial.
A committee was called to prepare some-
thing to be sent from here to the Centennial
Exhibition. It was remarked to-day that
it had been seven years since our Relief
Society was organized, and there had never
been a discord, or a dissenting voice in all
that time; and every call had been com-
plied with readily, as far as it was possible.
	MRS. P. E. BENSON,
	Secretary.
	ST. CHARLES, Jan. 19th, 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment So-
ciety of St. Charles, Bear Lake Co., Idaho
Territory, was organized September 6th,
1875, by Sister Presinda Kimball.
	Miss Amy E. Laker, President,
	Mrs. Nancy E. Pugmire,
	"	Sarah Allred,
	"	Eliza W. Brewer,
	"	Orissa A. Williamson,	Counselors.
	Miss Mary Jacobs,
	Mrs. Laura A. Johnson,
	"	Nancy Hunt,
	"	Maria M. Beers, Superintendent,
	Miss Lizzie M. Pugmire, Secretary.
	Twenty-five young ladies were admitted
as members of the Society. Our meetings
are well attended and all take a great inter-
est in the welfare of the Society. Some of
the young ladies gathered straw last sum-
mer and we are preparing to have it manu-
factured into hats. Sister Presinda Kim-
ball gave us some excellent instructions and
advice while here, and I think it will have
a lasting impression on the minds of those
who were present. The EXPONENT has the
best wishes of the society for its advance-
ment.
	LIZZIE M. PUGMIRE, Sec'y.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I feel the many friends of the Relief So-
cieties would be glad to learn through your
valuable paper how we are progressing in
Ogden. During the last year we have not
only gained in numbers but I trust in the
Spirit of the Lord also. May the blessings
of God rest upon Sister E. R. Snow for the
seasons of rejoicing we have had through
her meeting with us, also the other sisters
that have at times accompanied her. The
sisters here seem anxious and willing to do
all they can to assist our worthy and much
loved President, Mrs. J. S. Richards
who is ever ready to comfort the sick
and assist the needy. On the 16th of De-
cember 1875, we held our Annual Meet
ing it was 8 years since the Relief Society
had been organized here in Ogden. Presi-
dent F. D. Richards met with us. In the
evening we had a good old-fashioned old
folks dance; all expressed themselves that
it was the best dance they ever attended.
By counsel we have arranged to choose our
officers once a year, or sustain those in office
according to the feelings of the sisters.
The same officers were chosen by a unani-
mous vote. During the last year we have
started the Straw Business and proved it a
success; we have considerable braid on hand
ready for spring.
	We have disbursed over $1,011,50 to straw
work and to the poor; we have on hand
property amounting to over $250. May
God prosper and bless all the Relief Socie-
ties that they may accomplish that for
which they were organized.
	A. M. FRODSHAM,
	Secretary.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel that I would like to write a few
lines to your paper, but I am like many
more, that have not been in the habit of
writing to the public, who feel a backward-
ness that ought to be put aside from us, for
I see that we are called upon to speak our
minds, and write also that we may repre-
sent ourselves. I am happy to say that our
Relief Society is in a pretty good condition
at present, and many are alive to their du-
ties. We have not started anything yet in
HOME INDUSTRY, but I think next summer
we will try to make a start in raising silk;
we have the mulberry trees here in the set-
tlement, and we do not wish to be behind
our sisters. We had Sisters E. R. Snow
and M. I. Horne visit us a short time ago,
and they gave us some excellent advice
showing the necessity of our becoming a
self-sustaining people; we had a general
time of rejoicing for the Spirit of God was
in our midst. I believe we have nearly all
renewed our covenants, and hope we shall,
one and all, live nearer our God in '76, than
we have in the past; for I feel there is a
cloud hanging over us that will become
darker and darker, if we give way to
our foolish fancies which we have inherited
from the world. I heard a letter read that
was sent to all the Bishops concerning
dancing, which I believe will result in very
great good for our young people. But there
will be many that will not see it in the prop-
er light yet; but with careful training we
can accomplish much. With good wishes
for all the household of faith, I remain
your sister in the Gospel.
	P. S. H.
	West Weber, Jan, 15th 1875.


ORIGIN OF THE WATER CURE. — The wa-
ter-cure, or hydropathy, ows its origin to
the fertility of invention of a Silesian peas-
ant, Vincenz-Priessnitx. Having at the age
of thirteen sprained his wrist, young Priess-
nitx intuitively applied it to the pump; and
afterward, to continue the relief thus ob-
tained, he bound upon it a wet bandage.
Rewetting this as it became dry, he re-
duced the inflammation, but excited a rash on
the surface of the part. Soon after, having
crushed his thumb, he again applied the
bandage, and the pain once more subsided,
but the rash reappeared. He inferred that
the rash indicated an impure blood; and
this conclusion was strengthened by the re-
sult of experiments which he was induced
to try upon injuries and ulcers in the case
of some of his neighbors, since the rash in
some instances appeared after the treatment
and in others did not. Thus he was led to
frame for himself a humoral pathology of all
diseases and a doctrine of the elimination
of morbific matter by "crisis."
	According to this view, the cure of dis-
eases is to be affected by favoring the activ-
ity of these organs through which the pu-
rification of the system is carried on, and,
through a regulated and pure dietary and
correct regimen, preventing further morbid
accumulations. In his nineteenth year be-
ing run over by a cart, Priessnitx had some
ribs broken and received severe bruises; on
learning that the physicians pronounced his
case hopeless, he tore off their bandages,
and recovered under the renewed applica-
tion of his bandage, and replaced the ribs by
inflating the lungs while pressing the abdo-
men against a window sill. This instance
confirmed the idea, and initiated the prac-
tice of the water-cure. — EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	131


THE LOST BABIES.

Come my wife, put down the Bible,
	Lay your glasses on the book,
Both of us are bent and aged—
	Backward, mother, let us look
This is still the same old homestead
	Where I brought you long ago,
When the hair was bright with sunshine
	That is now like winter's snow.
Let us talk about the babies
	As we sit here all alone.
Such a merry troop of youngsters;
	How we lost them one by one.

Jack, the first of all the party,
	Came to us one winter's night.
Jack, you said, should be a parson,
	Long before he saw the light.
Do you see that great cathedral,
	Filled the transept, and the nave,
Hear the organ grandly pealing,
	Watch the silken bangings wave;
See the priest in robes of office,
	With the alter at his back-
Would you think that gifted preacher
	Could be our own little Jack?

Then a girl with curly tresses
	Used to climb upon my knee,
Like a little fiary princess
	Ruling at the age of three.
With the years there came a wedding—
	How your fond heart swelled with pride
When the lord of all the country
	Chose your baby for his bride!
Watch that stately carriage coming,
	And the form reclining there—
Would you think that brilliant lad
	Could be our own little Clare?

Then the last, a blue-eyed youngster—
	I can hear him prattling now—
Such a strong and sturdy fellow,
	With hi broad and honest brow.
How he used to love his mother,	Ah! I see your trembling lip!
He is far off on the water,
	Captain of a royal ship.
See the bronze upon his forehead,
	Hear the voice of stern command-
That the boy who clung so fondly
	To his mother's gentle hand?

Ah! my wife, we've lost the babies,
	Ours so long and ours alone:
What are we to these great people,
	Stately men and women grown?
Seldom do we even see them:
	Yes, a bitter tear-drop starts,
As we sit here in the fire-light,
	Lonely hearth and lonely hearts.
All their lives are full without us;
	They'll stop long enough one day
Just to lay us in the churchyard,
	Then they'll each go on their way.

—Selected.


For the Exponent.
	REMEMBERED HAPPINESS.

[Column 1]
	One of the English poets says "a thing of
beauty is a joy forever," but I propose to
give another version to that aphorism and
say: Happiness once given, is a "joy for-
ever." How much the happiness of past
days adds to the felicity of the present! A
happy childhood, spent beneath the eye of
parents who were wisely indulgent, diffuses
over the whole life a feeling of calm pleas-
ure and satisfaction, and even in age, is still
a "joy forever." No happiness is confined
to the present moment, for memory renders
it immortal. If any one has added to our
happiness, by their social pleasantry, their
cheerful intelligent conversation, and their
ready attentions; the face of that friend
will rise before us unchanged, years after—
yes all our life, the recollections of that
bright epoch will be a "joy forever." We
recall an agreeable tour through a lovely
country, where we beheld splendid scenery,
and every beauty which nature and art com-
bined could throw together—we made it
with agreeable company, every spirit be-
ing one in a desire to promote the happiness

[Column 2]
of all, we lived a short time with those
spirits, enjoying every day some new and
innocent pleasure. We parted with regret,
perhaps never to meet on earth again, but
was the happiness extinct? No, our im-
pressions were indelible, and they remain a
"joy forever." If we desire to excite our
ideality, we have only to recall these sunny
days of happiness, and the sweet moonlight
of memory beguiles us to a return of the
beautiful and happy. Nothing like the sun-
dial, only the sunny hours of life! Oh!
bless them who have been kind to us in
days that are past! What a treasury is the
remembrance of them—how full of riches
hoarded up with miserly care, were we in
a dungeon its bars and bolts could not rob
us of one iota, but are with us as a "joy for-
ever."
	We recall our youthful homes with their
magical influence and associations, with the
Lares and Penates of those circles, even
our beloved parents, so wise, so good, so
aelf-sacrificing for our comfort and well-be-
ing! The contemplation of these will be a
study through time—yes, till we are reunit-
ed with them; and then again our brothers
and sisters, our friends and playmates, the
co-partners of our infantile joys and sor-
rows, and on them our memory is immor-
tal. Then came the magnates of our riper
years, those with whom our souls conversed
—with whom we took sweet counsel—whose
love to us was "passing the love of women"
though some were of that GENIUS. Those
years, with all their powerful reminiscenses
rise before us, and verily they are "a joy
forever." I have traced but a brief portion
even of the outline; and then there is the
residue, and the filling up of the picture of
happiness that pervades our pathway of life.
The remembrance lives within the pre-
cincts of our own heart and brain, and it is
unto us "a joy forever." Happiness is an
emanation of the Spirit of God, where it ex-
ists the principle of evil can have no lasting
power; it is full of the spirit of life, of love,
of generosity, of all that ennobles humanity;
it enlarges our hearts, expands the mind, in-
creases our intelligence, multiplies our use-
fulness, raises our thoughts and aspirations
to our Great Father who dwells in an at-
mosphere of happiness. Let us then culti-
vate it, and Heaven will be around and
about us; we know not how rich we are un-
til we examine the treasury which God has
bequeathed to His children. Let us help
to make others happy, and if possible teach
the art of acquiring it. The material lies
around all more or less, but we differ so
much in temperament and organism, men-
tally and physically, that each must select
for themselves out of the rich material our
Father has provided us with. Byron wrote:
"The Past is nothing." With such a mind
as he possessed, he could not have been in a
healthy mood when he wrote it.
	"The past is nothing!" Few can say
	Their star of life has left no ray,
	That o'er their retrospective view
	Casts glowing tints of pinky hue.
	I revel in the hoarded Past,
	And bless the die in which 'twas cast.
	Yes—Yes the present will reveal
	The Past is something—woe or weal,
	Is built upon the mighty past
	Which through Eternities may last
	The future is within the Veil,
	Obscure in its unfolded tale.
	But yet whate'er our God's behest,
	Let's bless Him, for we have been blest.
		Hannah T. King.
S. L. City.


FANCIES are the blossoms of facts; pur-
er and lovelier for their strong hold on truth,
just as the fairest roses are grown in the fin-
est soil.


POWER OF KINDNESS.
	In the autumn of 1871, notices were post-
ed in public places in Cadiz, Spain, that on
a certain day the bull El Moro, a magnifi-
cent animal, would be introduced into the
arena of the amphitheatre, and that when
he had been goaded to the uttermost fury,
a young girl would appear and reduce him
to quiet subjection. The girl who was to
act this daring part was a peasant girl, who
had fed and petted the bull during the years
of its growth. On the appointed day, the
vast amphitheatre was packed with an ea-
ger crowd, when, with a terrific roar, El
Moro entered the arena, with eyes of fire
and dilating nostrils. The picadors attacked
him warily, and hurled their banderillas—
small javelins intended to infuriate. When
the creature had killed three horses and re-
ceived eight banderillas in his neck and
shoulders, the signal was given, and he was
left alone in his paroxysm of wrath. Pres-
ently a soft musical note was heard, and a
pretty girl not more than fifteen years of
age, in the tasteful garb of an Andalusian
peasant, sprang lightly into the arena, ap-
proaching the bull fearlessly, at the same
time calling his name—"Moro. Moro! Ya
voy!" At the first sound of the sweet voice,
the animal ceased his fury and turned to-
ward  the girl he plainly manifested pleas-
ure. She came to his head and put forth
her hand, which he licked with his tongue.
Then she sang a low, sweet song, at the
same time caressing the animal by patting
him on the forehead, and while she sang,
the suffering monarch kneeled at her feet.
Then she stooped and gently removed the
cruel banderillas, after which, with her arm
around El Moro's neck, she led him toward
the gate.—Harper's Weekly.
	Is this beautiful exhibition of the power
of womanly kindness typical of the future,
when our political society will be tempered
by the influence of feminine sympathy and
patriotism?—Wouan's Journal.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
	The cotton crop in the South this year
will exceed the limits of 4,000,000 bales.
	THREE car loads of silk-worm eggs val-
ued at $86,000,000 have been taken from
San Francisco to New York recently.
	THE number of hogs killed at Cinncinati
this season was 239,874; for the same time
last year, 253,048.
	THE largest polished plate ever exhibited
was the work of the Thames Plate Glass
Company of England, measuring 19 feet, 5
inches long, and 10, feet 3 inches wide.
IN 1855 the Paris omnibuses carried 40,
000,000 passengers; in 1860, 72,000,000; in
1867, Exhibition year, 121,000,000; in 1869,
119,000,000; in 1971, 78,000,000; in 1872, 111
000,000; and in 1874, over 115,000,000.
	IT is doubtless safe to say that we have as
voters in the United States fully 1,000,000
of men who religiously hold that their first
and highest allegiance is due to the Pope of
Rome.—National Protestant.


AN easy observation of the most common,
sometimes the meanest things in nature,
will give the truest lights, where the great-
est sagacity and industry that slight such
observation must leave us in the dark, or
what is worse, amuse and mislead us by
false lights. In an inquiry, it is almost
everything to be once in a right road.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editors.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
[---], $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p m every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. FEB. 1, 1876.


WARN YOUR GIRLS.

[Column 1]
	It has always been and is still the case, that,
in general, the boys of a family are regarded as
being of more importance that the girls. This
fact is too well understood to require delinea-
tion from us. Nor is it our purpose here, to
discuss the propriety or impropriety of this
custom. But without wishing to see one parti-
cle of interest withdrawn from the boys, it
would still be gratifying to realize that a more
lively and intelligent interest had really been
awakened for the girls. To be effectual and
permanent, such an interest must become an
individual one as well as being so widely
spread; it must be found at home as well as in
congregations of reformers.
	Parents, mothers, are too apt to believe their
daughter so pure minded that there is no dan-
ger of their becoming contaminated. For their
sons there is more fear. They will probably
go out into the world unguarded and alone.
They must be warned of the temptations which
throng life's pathway. They must be taught
that sin leads to death, and that truth and in-
tegrity lead to light and life eternal. O! that
these lessons were more faithfully taught more
indelibly stamped upon the hearts of boys, that
they might be more lastingly remembered and
revered. that every man might be a man of
honor, a man of God! Then, indeed, there
would be less fear for our girls. and they
might well be left in ignorance of what has
been or what might be, to indulge in all the
confidence of unsuspecting innocence.
	But it is not so. and the folly and weakness
of men render it most essential that girls should
be taught something concerning themselves,
the world and some of its miserable ways, be-
fore the time when they may be cast uncere-
moniously upon its deceptive surface.
	The good and wise example of a noble moth-
er, is without doubt. the greatest of all moni-
tors to a conscientious and dutiful daughter.
But this is not enough. She, as well as her
brother should be taught by precept and re-
ceive explanations in relation to various vir-
tues and their opposite evils.
	What true Christian mother ever reared a
son without spending hours, days and even
years in admonishing him? Numberless ex-
amples—like the following, for instance—may
be found every day:
	"Twelve or fifteen years ago," said Ex-Gover-
nor Briggs, "I left Washington three or four
weeks in the Spring. While at home I pos-
sessed myself of the letters of Mr. Adams'
mother and read them with exceeding interest.
I remember an expression in one of the letters
addressed to her son, while yet a boy twelve
years of age, in Europe. She says: 'I would

[Column 2]
rather see you laid in your grave than you
should grow up a profane and graceless [-]oy.'
	After returning to Washington, I went over
to the White House and said to President Ad-
ams, 'I have found who made you!'
	'What do you mean?' he asked. I replied, I
have been reading the letters of your mother.'
	If I had spoken that dear name to some lit-
tle boy who had been for weeks away from his
precious mother, his eyes could not have flashed
more brightly or his face glowed more quickly
than did the eyes and face of that venerable
old man, when I pronounced the name of his
mother. He stood up in his peculiar manner
and said, 'yes Mr. Briggs, all that is good in
me, I owe to my mother!'
	O! what a testimony was that from this ven-
erable man to his mother, who had in his re-
membrance all the stages of his manhood!
Mothers, think of this when your bright eyed
little boys are about you."
	Thus mothers admonish their sons; and are
besought so to do, the world over. While ex-
ample is generally thought sufficient for the
daughter. Perhaps this is because the latter
betrays less natural tendency to go astray.
	But let the maidens foot once slip, and what
do we hear! 'She must have been naturally
wicked." or "she was evidently constitutionally
weak." These and similar and harder express-
ions are too frequently and too freely made use
of by people in general; and alas! by inexperi-
enced women in particular, when it is known
that one of their number, one like themselves
has fallen from the pleasant way, the peaceful
path of virtue!
	Even sisters guileless and innocent them-
selves, but also thoughtless. realizing nothing
of the tempter's power, have been known to
treat the fallen one with cornful reproach in-
stead of comforting pity. And mothers, often
themselves equally at fault with the dishonored
child, have given cruel taunts where only the
tenderest sympathies should have been awak-
ened.
	It is not our object to plead excuse for wrong
doing in any form. But a little solid reflection
upon these things, when the ignorance of most
girls and the rashness of some men are duly
considered, will bring the reasoning mind to
wonder more that so many are saved than at
the terrible truth that some are lost.
	Mother, tell your daughter ere it be too late,
how carefully she should conduct herself under
all circumsances where men and love-making
are concerned. Tell her, for she may not be
aware of this important fact, that kissing and
hand-pressing are entirely out of place be-
tween unmarried ladies and gentlemen, except
in cases of actual and honest marriage engage-
ment. For although these things may seem
trifling and unimportant in themselves, they
are often precursors of terrible tempations.
	And that all attempts at such familiarities
from a man having no honorable right, should
be resented by her in an unmistakable manner.
Teach her to be he self most circumspect and
to demand and comm nd uch respect from oth-
ers, that she will truly be in little danger of be-
ing contaminated under any circumstances
whatever.
	You do not know to-day, most faithful moth
er, what trials and temptations may beset your
daughter to-morrow, or in years to come. You
cannot be always beside her, to draw her to
yourself when dangers threaten, but you can
warn her while you have her yet with you.
Think of the experience you have yourself pass-
ed through, and what you have known and
heard of many others, and warn her. Remem-
ber that temptation alone is the test of virtue,
and that she who has not been tempted, though

[Column 3]
she may be pure as an angel of light, has not
been proven virtuous. But there is great wis-
dom in shunning temptation; how is your
daughter to shun it while she knows not of its
existence?
	Warn her concerning the temptations and
how to avoid them; at the same time you will
be teaching her the priceless value of her purity
and how to preserve it.


SOCIETY AND ITS TENDENCY.
	The prevailing elements of society tend more
or less to influence those who mingle in it even
though they may wish to avoid things which
are repulsive and distasteful to them, yet un-
consciously they will receive impressions and
partake in some degree of that which exists in
their midst. Nature has some things in com-
mon that will impreceptibly in associating as-
similate themselves to each other even though
against the will.
	Consequently it is easy to preceive, that the
purer feelings existing among the leaders of
society and persons holding important posi-
tions of honor and trust, the more truly eleva-
ting in all its bearings will be the tone of the
age.
	It is of the greatest importance to the young
especially that such should be the case, for
they are more susceptible of impressions and
influences, and it is hard for them to compre-
hend that where intelligence and polish exist
and have been cultivated to the highest degree
that there is not a corresponding inward
beauty harmonizing with the outward refine-
ment, that it is only illusive, a mask to cover a
hideous carcass.
	If the atmosphere of society be kept clear of
impurities and develop healthy and invigora-
ting energies of body and mind, then those who
bask in its light will receive strength of char-
acter and purpose as well as polish of manners
and refinement of taste. But while the pre-
vailing customs of late hours and dissipation,
as well as extremes of every name and nature
exist, one must be continually on their guard,
watching as well as praying if they would pre-
serve purity of heart, of body, of soul and of
purpose, while constantly exposed to tempta-
tions of every name and nature.
	"As custom arbitrates whose shifting away
	Our life and manners must alike obey."


HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE CHOIR and young people of the Four-
teenth Ward under the direction of Mr. A. C.
Smith gave a concert for a benevolent purpose
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Monday evening Jan. 17th, which reflected
great credit upon their musical talent and elo-
cutionary powers. The selection of songs was
in good taste and the execution fine and artis-
tic. The songs of the young ladies particularly
were full of exquisite pathos and melody.
	A VERY interesting entertainment was given
by the ladies of the Relief and Retrenchment
Societies of the Twelfth Ward at their ward
school-house on Friday afternoon Jan. 1[-]. The
tables spread for the occasion were literally
loaded with good things, and arranged in an
inviting manner. Bishop Hunter and several
of the Twelve were pre ent, and many other
invited guests beside the members of the ward.
After dinner Bishop L. W. Hardy opened the
entertainment by addressing them upon the
object of these gatherings and spoke most en-
couragingly to all those who take part in these
Societies. There were anthems by the ward
choir, and songs and reci[-]ations all performed


excellently well, especially the rendering of the
recitations by J. C. Graham, and J. Midgeley.
Some of the songs were very finely executed.
In the evening the young people enjoyed them
selves in dancing. Such Reunious' are bene-
ficial to the people young and old, bringing
those together who are full of the spirit of the
work of the Latter Days, and assimilating the
spirit of benevolence with that of sociability
and enjoyment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	133


AN ESSAY.
	READ BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION OF THE THIR-
TEENTH WARD.
	I think we all realize that God in placing us
upon this earth had an object in view, a work
for us to accomplish, that was planned and
commenced in the ages that have passed, to be
finished in the coming future. It was but a
short time since, that we were in His presence,
wrapped in the holy light of His look, with joy
and gladness worshipping our Creator; and to
earn a right to the place which we held and
show our obedience to His will, we are request-
ed to go and do His work.
	Our eyes are opened; we see the paths that
we must walk, the burdens that must be car-
ried, the struggles and temptations to be resist-
ed before the end is reached; the briars and
thorns by the wayside, that when His light is
withdrawn, we in our blindness shall grasp un-
knowingly until made aware of our mistake by
the sharp sting of regret which will follow.
Still His work lies there and we full of hope
and faith are eager to begin, that we may the
sooner enjoy the rest.
	Our knowledge is taken from us, we step
forth into this life, and the one which we
have left becomes a blank; God's light is with-
drawn except one small ray faith. which He
in His mercy allowed to remain; and if we live
as we should that ray will become a stream of
light to guide us back to our Eternal Home.
	Are we living to receive this light? living to
earn the positions we have left? or surrounded
as we are by the temptations of this world, its
joys and pleasures, have we forgotten the ob-
ject which brought us here?
	Let us keep in mind the glorious rest which
is awaiting us, after the toil and labor is over.
And as each day passes, drawing us nearer our
home, make it our aim to live the next day
more faithful and true to the principles that
will lead us to Life Eternal.
		L.
	S. L. City.


RETRENCHMENT.
	There are many subjects that all can improve
upon and likewise many things; it is not
dress alone but we can retrench in speaking
evil and in others things that are as necessary
as those of which I have spoken; we need to
retrench in backbiting above all other things.
There are also many words we use when talk-
ing that are not very becoming; many of us
think it makes us look smart, but it does not I
assure you. I am not as perfect as I should
be, but I can improve with the rest of you; let
us retrench in wasting our time; many times
we say that we have not time to do thus and
so; but we must try to use our time to better
advantage than we do; I do not mean to say
that we are all like this, but if we have a piece
of work to do, that we could do in one hour, and
should take two, that is what we should re-
trench in, and it will teach us to keep our minds


on what we are doing, and how to save time
and never leave for to-morrow what should be
done to-day.
	Let us improve our time in learning to make
our clothing, that our apparel may be the work
of our own hands; and by so doing we shall find
our time well improved indeed.
		ELIZA VILATE ASHWORTH.
	First Ward.


MATTIE GOLDFISH'S HISTORY, OBITU-
ARY, FUNERAL SERMON AND BENEDIC-
TION.
		HISTORY.
	George and Mattie Reed occupied a warm
place in the friendly corner of my heart;
so when they brought me a globe contain-
ing two pretty gold fish I at once christened
them George and Mattie.
	OBITUARY.
	One morning as the accustomed meal was
being scattered Mattie swam unsteadily, and
I saw the shadow of approaching death.
The globe was more frequently filled and
the cracker more finely pulverized, but all
availed nothing.
	After three days sickness Mattie folded
her gills closely and sank to the bottom of
her crystal world; while George circled
above apparently unconscious that anything
sad had occurred.
	FUNERAL SERMON.
	My text, or leading thought, may be
found in a choir p[-]em recently published in
the "Morning Herald:"
	"I breathed naught but love on my flowers."
		H. T. K.
	I have no congregation of our pet's peers,
(shoals of fish) to address, if I had they
would not understand my language.
	But to boys and girls, large and small, I
say, tenderly regard all life even that of
birds, and fish and flowers, for they will all
live again, and in the again they will un-
derstand our language, and we will under-
stand theirs. Let them have no cause to
accuse us then of thoughtless disregard.
	A goldfish's spirit is as undying asthat of
Earth which furnishes us an abiding place,
and yields us sustenance, as is Mrs. King's
cherished flowers, or as is the immortal
spirit of man.
	This being true, we infer that when we
come in possession of our portion of resur-
rected or renewed earth, "wherein dwelleth
righteousness," and receive the keys of our
Eternal Mansion, we may confidently look
amid our surroundings to find all specimens
of life that we have encircled within the
radius of our love.
		BENEDICTION.
	Our Father and Mother in Heaven we
pray thee to bless the little boys and girls
to whom we consign Mattie Goldfish's body
for further funeral honors and for burial.
Wilt Thou bless our audience (EXPONENT
READERS.) And may the departed spirit float
pleasantly to that other shore and be safely
guided into some stream or lake that adorns
the plantation being prepared for,
	RHEUMA.


Correspondents writing over assumed sig-
natures must make known their names to
the Editor, or no attention will be given to
their communications.


LIBERTY.
	Liberty is a principle which all love to en-
joy, and a privilege which all ought to pos-
sess, and none should hinder. The Lord
has placed us upon this habitable globe that
we might act upon our own agency and free-
will in keeping His commandments. If we
consider the birds of the air, their freedom,
is one of the leading principles of their
actions, they love to fly around rather than
to be caged in houses for the mere pleasure
of the occupants. It is similar with us.
I ask how far it is extended among the
world of mankind in general? How many
there are that bind heavy burdens upon the
shoulders of their fellow creatures. Yet it
is a principle that is much boasted of in this
so called enlightened age. There are sys-
tems of religion that exist to-day, and are
popular, which in their very infancy en-
forced such restrictions upon their votaries,
and have gone to such an extent, that if not
complied with, they have suffered the pain
of banishment and even death. Such a
state of things exists more or less at
the present time among those who wear
the garb of religion and style themselves
Christians. But we as Saints of God ought
to be thankful that we live in a land where
under the laws of the present constitution,
we can enjoy the dictates of our own con-
science. But yet there are many who would
like to deprive us of these rights, and work
very hard to do so and strip us of what
we possess. This is so-called liberty! But
if we serve the Lord and centre our minds
and objects for building up His king-
dom, He will control all things for our good.
	May we be faithful and prayerful in dili-
gently performing our present duties, and
assist one another in the Most Holy Faith,
is my earnest prayer in the name of Jesus.
	MISS JANE FREWIN.
S. L. City.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE Princess Louise is a most accom-
plished needle-woman, and is expert in de-
signing as well as imitating. She occupies
her time during the day in art studies, and
seems wholly absorbed in them.
	QUEEN Victoria of Great Britian, person-
ally conducts a Sunday School for the child-
ren connected with Windsor Castle. She is
certainly an estimable lady individually,
and does not depend upon her position as
Queen, for dignity or nobility. Young la-
dies of fashion would do well to imitate her
private life, and would be less afflicted with
"ennuie."
	THE Hon. Mrs. Norton, whose approach-
ing marriage to Sir W. Stirling Maxwell is
announced in London, is rather advaneed
in years for a bride, being now sixty-seven
years old. Her grandfather was the cele-
brated dramatist, orator and statesman,
Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Her first mar-
riage to Hon. George Chapple Norton, took
place nearly half a century ago, in 1837.
She was a precious rhymester, and a volume
of her juvenile poems was published in 1820,
when George IV had just begun to reign,
and James Monroe was President of the
United States. Her most widely known
poem, "Bingen on the Rhine," was the
schoolboy declamation of men now past mid-
dle age. Miss Sedgwick, in her "Letters
from Abroad" (published in 1841), describ-
ed Mrs. Norton as "the perfection of intel-
lectual and physical beauty, uniting mascu-
line force with feminine delicacy."


134 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTERS.

[Column 1]
	BOSQUE Co. TEXAS, Dec. 14, 1875.
DEAR SISTER HORNE:
	And sisters of the Retrenchment Asso-
ciation and Relief Society, I feel there is
an apology due you my dear sisters for my
long silence; but I have been so busy visit-
ing my numerous relatives and friends,
who received me with open arms and wel-
come greetings that I could not get time to
write such a letter as I wished; giving you
a short history of my travels and the wel-
come reception I have met with among my
kindred. Can you imagine six grown broth-
ers who had not seen a sister for twenty
years gathering around me as though they
could take me by pieces from my aged
mother who had the best right, and claimed
that her house was to be my home, and I
must be the visitor of those dear brothers
who felt so blest and honored to have a
sister visit them. I have rejoiced exceed-
ingly to find that my mother and brothers
have defended the principles of the Gospel
although they have been absent from the
church for twenty years, and had no mis-
sionaries among them; yet they have not
denied the faith.
	Mother says tell the President that she
hopes he will not forsake her if she has him.
Mr. East and Greer preached last Sunday
to a very attentive congregation. After-
wards a gentleman arose and called for more
evidence that Joseph Smith was a Prophet;
so I was the fourth witness, as my brother
Thomas also testified to what Elders East
and Greer had said. I will relate a few
words of testimony which I gave them. I
said the Gospel of the Son of God is not a
fable, neither is life a romance, therefore it
is of the greatest importance that we seek
"to know of the doctrine whether it be of
God or man;" this is our privilege, I know
for myself that God has revealed Himself
from the heavens in this dispensation; the
testimony I have received, God gave me in
answer to prayer. The HOLY GHOST was
promised to the believers anciently, and it
is promised to them now if they believe
and are baptized; and I am a witness that
the signs follow the people called Latter-
Day Saints. God has made me a witness by
giving me the gift of the HOLY GHOST.
This is how I know that Joseph Smith is a
Prophet of God, and that those men who
have addressed you are sent of God com-
missioned with authority to baptize you, and
lay hands upon you, that you may receive
the HOLY GHOST; if you honestly desire to
know the truth this is your privilege. The
gentleman that called for more evidence,
said my testimony struck him, he placed
his hand on his heart and said it was pene-
trated.
	The ladies gathered around after meet-
ing to know concerning polygamy, but God
was with me, and His spirit gave me ans-
wers. I told them they need not be troubled
for if they did not repent they would not
have a husband at all; if they should die to-
morrow, that was the end of their covenant;
they would not be worthy of the marriage
relation after death should part them. If
their husbands did not embrace the gospel,
they would not be worthy of one wife in the
future state.
	The marrying for eternity seemed to re-
move the big pill that was choking them,
and they were anxious to hear more con-
cerning that eternal union of the sexes.
	God bless you my dear sisters, and God
bless His servants that build up His king-
dom is my prayer.
	W. EAST.
[Column 2]
	PARIS, BEAR LAKE CO., Jan. 9th, '76.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I don't know as I scarcely dare enter my-
self on your list of correspondents. Yet
when I read the EXPONENT and the many
interesting and instructive pieces written
by the sisters, I think sometimes, why can-
not I write something that would perhaps
be the means of improving my own mind,
if not of much interest to any one else? I
firmly believe the more persons exercise
the capacities of their minds the more fruit-
ful they will become. Every faculty of
one's nature has to be brought into con-
stant exercise, if they wish to improve the
talents which the Lord has given them.
Some have a better talent for writing and
exercising their ideas properly, than others;
but the person with the one talent is just as
much in duty bound to improve it, as the
one with ten talents, otherwise the one tal-
ent will be taken away and given to the one
that already hath ten, and improved them.
I know that the sisters in this church have
a mission to fulfill, and, although it is a
very limited sphere of usefulness some have
to work in; still if they are faithful in their
calling their influence will be felt, and their
opportunities for doing good will corres-
pondingly increase.
	There is one subject which has been treat-
ed upon in your valuable paper which has
greatly interested me, a subject which
should interest every mother in Israel,
namely that of bringing up children aright.
The responsibility is great upon mothers to
instruct and bring up their children prop-
erly, for "As the twig is bent the tree is
inclined." Mothers should set an example
before their children worthy of imitation;
for upon them in a great measure depends
the future prosperity and advancement of
the church and kingdom of God. What a
great mission for women to perform. How
few realize their duties as they should, to
thoroughly train the faculties and disposi-
tions of children, to teach them to control
their passions, and cultivate and encourage
every good and noble faculty of their na-
ture, and at the same time striving to
eradicate and root out everything that has
an evil tendency, that they may grow up
useful members of society.
	The daughters of Zion should grow up
with a proper understanding of the various
duties required of them in the different pos-
itions of life in which they may be placed,
whether as daughters, wives or mothers;
filling every sphere in a manner which shall
redound with honor to themselves and shed
a bright lustre upon the heads of their par-
ents. Sons have still more important pla-
ces to fill in the kingdom of God. To be
taught to fulfill all the duties required of
them, requires the exercise of great wisdom
and care on the part of the parents. Thrown
as it were from the immediate control of
parents, more than daughters, they are
more liable to learn bad habits, and coarse
wicked language and be led into improprie-
ties of almost every kind. Great caution
and wisdom should be used to guard them
against evil influences, to teach them to love
that which is good, and to avoid every-
thing which has an evil tendency, that when
their fathers are called away from this mor-
tal sphere, they may step forward into their
footsteps, and bear off the kingdom and as-
sist in finishing the work which their fath-
ers commenced.
	What a great and noble work is before us;
there is not a moment to lose. Every mo-
ment should be improved in learning some-
thing that is useful. In improving our
minds by reading useful books, or convers-

[Column 3]
ing with those whose knowledge is greater
than ours; picking up the little gems of
thought which are scattered about in such
rich profusion. If we really wish to be-
come useful and intelligent members of the
church and kingdom of God, seeking to
bring our minds and wills in subjection to
Him, Who rules on high; then we will be
the better prepared to extend our spheres
of usefulness.
	I fear I have already extended this commu-
nication beyond the limits of your patience,
but really the subject is so interesting, and
of so much importance to our well being,
that I scarcely know where to break off.
	Praying that your interesting paper will
continue to grow and increase in circulation
and influence until it shall become an actual
necessity in every household in Utah:
	I am as ever your sister in the Gospel,
		SARAH.


DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would like to write a few of 
my thoughts for my young sisters of Utah.
We are now living in a day and dispensa-
tion when we can find plenty to occupy us.
I think we ought to store our minds with 
something that is good and useful. There
is a great work for us to do before the com-
ing of Christ; and we are the chosen ones
to do this work. Therefore it behoves us
as daughters of Zion to pray to our Father
in Heaven to guide our steps aright, that 
we may be worthy to set an example for
the world, and show them that we are not
what they represent us to be. We should
resist evil temptations, and live so as to
help those who are surrounded with evil
influences.  We should not scorn those who
are beneath us in station, for we are all God's
children.  He loves those who love Him and
keep His commandments whether they be
rich or poor. We should attend our meet-
ings regularly and learn all we can, for we
will need all the knowledge that we can ob-
tain. Let us show to the world that we can
excel them in all good works, and in every
respect and under all circumstances, be
truly ladies although we are Mormons and 
the world despise us. Let us pray to God
to help us, and may He bless us all is, the
[---]est prayer at all times of a young sister.
	Yours with love,
		MISS R. J. MATTHEWS.
	Santaquin, Jan. 10th, 1876.


THE term "grass widow" is said to be a
corruption of the term "Grace widow," the
former expression being merely a barbar-
ism. "Grace widow" is the term applied
to one who becomes a widow by grace of
favor, not of necessity, as by death, origi-
nated in the early ages of European civili-
zation, when divorces were granted but
seldom, and wholly by the Catholic Church.
When such a decree was granted to a wo-
man, the Papal rescript stated, "Viduea de
gratia," which interpreted is "widow of
grace." In the law of the French it would
read, "Veuve de grace," or "grace widow,"
"veuve" being translated as "widow." — Ex.


AFTER our subtlest analysis of the men-
tal process, we must still say our highest
thoughts and our best deeds are given to us.
And do we not through this acknowledge
rapid thought and noble impulses to be in-
spiration?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	135


AN EDITOR'S WIFE.

[Column 1]
	Yes, I'm Mrs. Peter Snow, an editor's
wife. I well remember the day when Mr.
Snow asked me to become his wife. I con-
fess I liked Mr. Snow, and thinking it
would be a very fine thing to be the wife
of an editor, I said yes as pretty as I knew
how, and I became Mrs. Snow. I have seen
ten years of married life, and find my hus-
band to be an amiable, good-natured man.
He always spends his evenings at home,
and is in that respect a model man; but he
always brings a pile of exchanges, which is
only limited by the length of his arms, and
reads, while I patch the knees and elbows
of our boy's pantaloons and coat. After we
have had a Quaker meeting for an hour's
length, I break the silence by asking:
	"Mr. Snow, did you order that coal I
spoke to you about?"
	"What did you say, my dear?" he asks,
after a few moments' silence.
	"Did you order that coal I spoke to you
about?"
	"Indeed, my dear, I am sorry, but I for-
got all about it."
	Another hour's silence, which is relieved
by the baby's crying, and, rather liking to
hear a noise of some sort, I make no effort
to quiet him.
	"My," says Mr. Snow, after he has cried a
minute or so, "you had better give the ba-
by some catnip tea to quiet him; he troub-
les me."
	The baby is still; another hour passes
without a breath of noise. Becoming tired
of silence, I take a lamp and retire for the
night, leaving Mr. Snow so engaged with
his paper that he does not see me leave the
room. Towards midnight he comes to bed,
and just as he has fallen asleep, the baby
takes a notion to cry again. I rise as quietly
as possible, and try to still him. While I
am walking the room with a young Snow
in my arms, our next—a boy of three years
—begins to scream at the top of his lungs.
There is no other course but to call Mr.
Snow, so I call out:
	"Mr. Snow! Mr. Snow!"
	The third time he starts up and replies:
	"What! Tim; more copy?"
	As though I was Tim, that little imp run-
ning about the office. I reply rather tartly:
	"No, I don't want any more copy—I have
had enough of that to last me a lifetime—
I want you to see what Tommy is crying
about."
	Mr. Snow makes a desperate effort to
rouse himself; as Tommy stops to take a
breath, he falls asleep again, leaving me to
pace the room in as much vexation as I
can comfortably contain. The next morn-
ing, at breakfast, when I gave Mr. Snow an
account of last night's adventures, he re-
plies:
	"Indeed, my dear, I am sorry the child-
ren troubled you."
	This is always the way. If I even com-
plain, it is: "Indeed my dear, I am very
sorry."
	But should the very same thing occur the
subsequent night, directly before his eyes,
very likely he would not see or know any-
thing about it, unless it happened to inter-
rupt his train of ideas. Then he would pro-
pose catnip tea; but before I can get it into
the infant's stomach, he will be far away into
the realms of thought, leaving me not a
little vexed at his stupidity.
	Mr. Snow knows the nature of every pa-
per published in England and the United
States, but he cannot for the life of him tell
the names of his children. He knows pre-
cisely the years of every American Journal,
but he does not know the age of his own

[Column 2]
baby. He knows how every contributer
looks, but I do not believe he can tell wheth-
er my eyes are black or blue.
	They say Mr. Snow is getting rich. All
I know is, he gives me money to clothe our
boys, and that, too, without a complaint of
poverty. I hope the world is right in its
opinion, and when I am satisfied it is, I
shall advise him to resign his editorial hon-
ors and spend a few months in becoming
acquainted with his wife and children. The
little ones will feel much flattered in mak-
ing the acquaintance of so literary a man.


For the EXPONENT.
REFLECTIONS OF A YOUNG MOTHER.
	Morn amid the mountains,
	Lovely solitude;
	Gushing streams and fountains
	Murmurs God is good.
	I often feel like chanting these beautiful
lines in the morning when I arise from my
bed of peaceful slumbers to take up once
more the daily duties of housewifery;
they seem to be so in harmony with our sur-
roundings amid the mountains, where we
are enjoying a goodly portion of God's
choicest blessings, health and quietude.
	I feel like breathing forth a prayer of
gratitude to my Heavenly Father for His
protecting care, the society of a husband
who is constant and true, healthy and intel-
ligent children and the privilege of living
in this last great dispensation. We are
surrounded with all the advantages we
need wish for and if we only make the
best of them, we have all the necessary
comforts of life, which if we cannot pro-
duce we can purchase from abroad. I do
think if we would try and appreciate these
blessings and then contemplate our situation
were we deprived of them, we would not
be so easily led away with the foolish fash-
ions of the world.  We all know that times
will not always be as they are now, that
great changes must come, that some time in
the near future we will have to depend up-
on our own resources; when we understand
these things it is apparent to all women as
well as men, that it will be to our advan-
tage to lend a helping hand towards becom-
ing a self-sustaining people.
	If the extra means and time which are
spent for things we do not need, only to
keep ourselves fashionable, were spent in
the educating of our children in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, they would have more
confidence in and more love for us, and as
they grew up to manhood and womanhood
their minds would not be so easily led as-
tray; for children naturally follow the ex-
ample of their parents. Oh, would it not
be a great satisfaction to see them all liv-
ing the lives of Saints.
	I am but a young mother and have had
but little experience, but in my hours of
gratitude and contemplation this subject
presents itself to me forcibly. In this light
your excellent little paper has found its way
into a number of families in this place. I
can say for myself it is read with great ben-
efit. My desire is that I may make good
use of the instructions which are held forth
to one and all.
		D.[--]F.[-]D.
	Oxford, Oneida Co. Jan 14th, 1876.


THE ORIGIN OF NEWSPAPERS.
	Who thought of the newspaper first? It
seems to have had birth in that land of viv-
id gesture and grave gossip—Italy—and the
first paper of which we have any record was


a monthly, published in Venice, by order of
the Government, in manuscript, as printing
had not then been invented. It was called
Gazetta, which word was a derivative of Ga-
zera, the name of a magpie or chatterer.
In the Maghabecula Library, at Florence,
are now to be seen thirty volumes of Ve-
netian gazettes in manuscript, the last of
which is dated in the sixteenth century.
The Venetian conservatives clung to their
script after printing was an accomplished
fact.
	The epoch of the Spanish armada, in Eng-
land, was the epoch of the first English
newspaper. In the British Museum are
preserved several newspapers which were
printed in 1588, while the Spanish fleet lay
in the British Channel. The earliest of
these is entitled the "English Mercurie,"
which, by authority, "was imprinted at Lon-
don by Her Highness' printer, 1588." In
this early journal are the news of the day,
and a well-written article, designed to
arouse and stiffen timid loyalty tells of
the discovery of a Spanish plot to murder
the queen. There is a heroic poem, to
"Elizabethe Triumphanstel," by one James
Asker; a critical article of an unfortunate
author, entitled "Father Parsons' Coat Well
Dusted," and various witty sayings all
printed in Roman letter.
	To a physician of Paris, Renandot, be-
longs the credit of having first collected in
fugitive sheets, the news of various coun-
tries. The first venture was a weekly, is-
sued in healthy seasons, when patients were
few and the Doctor at leisure. he obtained
a license to do this in 1682.—Ex.


THE SEX IN PERSIA.
	There are women in Persia—real ladies—
who are as fair and beautiful as ever was
Lalla Rookh, whom the Cape-Cod girls call
for in Boston bookstores under the title of
"Laura Hooker." This mention is neces-
sary because the Shah in his European tour
sought the society of the Schneiders and
her sort. Very many of the Persian wo-
men of the higher classes have the fair com-
plexion and regular features of the Circas-
sian and Georgian races, with which the
native blood has been so beneficially and
freely mixed. They are clever, lively, and
frequently wear in the highest household
the metaphorical br——, as well as their
own elaborately embroidered trowsers; in
other words they reign supreme. But too
many of them lead a lazy, luxurious, and
terribly monotonous life. Most of them
learn to read and write, and they devote
hours to the perusal of the Persian poets.
Contrary to the opinion which has gener-
ally prevailed in Christendom the Persian
men are not commonly jealous, and their
men and women and daughters enjoy much
liberty, going unattended to the public
baths and bazaars and visiting their friends.
There are two kinds of marriage in Persia,
one permanent, which restricts the poor
husband to four wives only, and the other
when the contract is made for a stated per-
iod, permitting an unlimited number of
wives, who are generally women of an in-
ferior class, and who act as servants for the
permanent wives. But the children of
both classes are equal in rights and status,
and are ranked as legitimate. The great
mass of men in Persia marry but one wife
—silks and jewels are as expensive there as
elsewhere—and such wives generally lead a
contented and happy life.


136 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.
	HE that preaches gratitude, pleads the
cause both of God and men; for without it
we can neither be sociable nor religious.
	NO story is the same to us after a lapse of
time; or, rather we who read it are no long-
er the same interpreter.
	LOVE is the fruit of the soul, that when
friends drop away (as leaves thinning) is
more perfectly ripened by the sun that
reaches it from on high.
	THERE is a sort of fascination in all sin-
cere unpremeditated eloquence, which
opens to one the inward drama of the
speaker's emotions.
	THERE is no greater thing than for two
human souls to feel that they are joined for
life—to strengthen each other in all labor,
to rest on each other in all sorrow, to minis-
ter to each other in all pain, to be one with 
each other in unspeakable memories at the
moment of parting in this life, and to feel
a firm and full conviction and assurance
that they shall meet again to spend an eter-
nity in each other's society, where pain and
sorrow and death are no more.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A teaspoonful of powdered borax, dissolved in
a quart of tepid water, is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere or alpaca.
	A Nice Cream Pie.—One cup white sugar, two
thirds of a cup of cream, two eggs; two cups flour
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful
soda. This will make seven thin cakes, between
which spread the cream.
	Apple Fritters.—Make a batter, not very stiff,
with one quart of milk, three eggs and flour to
bring in the right consistency. Pare and core a
dozen apples, and chop them to about the size of
small peas, and mix them well in the batter. Fry
them in lard as you would doughnuts. For trim-
mings use powdered white sugar.
	To Iron Velvet Ribbon.—Dampen the under
side slightly and draw it back and forth over a ho
stovepipe until the velvet is quite dry. A still
better plan—though in winter not always conveni-
ent—is to lay a wet piece of cotton cloth on a hot
flat-iron placed upside down, and while the steam
is rising from it draw the underside of the velvet
lightly backward and forward over the wet cloth.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Breathing.—The "Science of Health" impress-
es upon its readers the pernicious effects of the
habit of breathing through the mouth, sleeping or
waking. The nostrils are the proper breathing ap-
paratus, not the mouth, a person may inhale pois-
onous gases through the mouth, but not the nose
without being aware of it. Drawing in and emit-
ting the breath through the mouth is also destruct-
ive to the teeth.
	The Liver.—In treating of this organ the Her-
ald of Health says that to cure derangements "a
great deal more can be done by a careful regula-
tion of the habits than by anything else, and the
first thing to be attended to is the food. It will
accomplish more than all the drugs in the world.
The things to be avoided are, very highly seasoned
dishes, hot and doughy bread and hot biscuits, such
vegetables as are not easily digested-potatoes,
cabbage and the like, alcoholic beverages, and the
use of tea and coffee to any but a very moderate
extent, excessive use of sugar and oily foods."
Good stale bread should be eaten; a little fresh lean
meat is advisable; eggs occasionally, cooked for


fifteen minutes in water at a temperature of 170°,
or put into boiling water, covered and placed away
from the fire, that the y[-]lk may be cooked and the
white left tender and flocculent; fruit used properly
is an almost certain panacea for diseases of the liv-
er.


WITH God as our God we are safe and hap-
py everywhere. A gentleman crossing a
dreary moor came upon a cottage, and enter-
ed into conversation with its inmate who
was standing by his garden gate. When
about  to leave he said:—“Are you not afraid
to live in this lonely place?" "Oh, no!" said
he, for Faith closes the door every night,
and Mercy opens it in the morning."


SIR Isaac Newton, a very wise and godly
man, was once examining a new and very
fine globe, when a gentleman came into his
study who did not believe in a God, but de-
clared the world we live in came by chance.
He was much pleased with the handsome
globe, and asked,
	"Who made it?"
	"Nobody," answered Sir Isaac; it happen-
ed here."
	The gentleman looked up in amazement
at the answer, but he soon understood what 
it meant.


THE fatigue of the limbs incident to rail-
way travel, is occasioned mainly by the
trembling motion of the floor under the
feet. Invalids will find great relief by the
use of an air cushion for a footstool.


<oivk ilbta="" call;="" priceslofeuit="" the="" tlmee.="" (<="" :="" 5="" ,.="" i9jc.........="" uj="" i;a‘jf="" ei="" ti="" wholesale.and="" retail,djaljngv="" bll="" ,="">					AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and 
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their 
Mince Meat for Christmas.  A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New [-]ear in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACK & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
				           DRY GOODS,
            Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
             Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps. Boots
               and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                                   Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
        Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
         ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
         the Old Fashioned House. 

					HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
        Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
                  Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
                   doors below Walker House, and examine our
                       goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
                          take pleasure in making to order, such
                              brushes as we have not on hand.
                                                                    Wm. H. MILES, Supt. 

					    LITTLE & ROUNDY,
				Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
			         Crockery, China and Glassware,
                             	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
                                            23, MAIN STREET.

					MITCHELL & JAMES,
			Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
					      AGENTS FOR
               RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
                           Pumps Repaired on short notice.
               Orders from the country promptly responded to.
              Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

						MILLINERY
						     - :0: -
			        	     Mrs. C. E. DYE,
                  Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

						Z. C. M. I. 
                               Wholesale and Retail Dealing
                                            in all kinds of
                     DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
                         HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
                            GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
                               STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
                    AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c. 

					O. L. ELIASON,
					   DEALER IN
		         Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
                   Second South Street, Opposite Walker
                                       Brothers' Bank.
            Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
                                          ONE YEAR. 


					IF YOU WANT CHEAP
			    COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
                                    TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
                                                   GO TO
                                            W. HARRISON'S,
                       One door South of Constitution Buildings,
                                                Main Street.  

					THE KIND OF 
				   BOOTS AND SHOES
                            EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
    Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
                               priced articles made by the
            WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
         At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
         Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
                                S. P. CROMPTON, Supt. 

							LADIES
               If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
                           Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
                                                   them to the
                                    UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
                        They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
                                            BUTTER and EGGS,
                                                                   F. GOSS, Supt. 

					  EVERY DESCRIPTION
							OF
				    CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
							AND 
				         GENERAL DRY GOODS.

                       Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

                                    Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

                                                H. E. PHELPS,
			                                    29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

						H. DINWOODEY
				WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
						   FURNITURE!
                                 SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
                                            Feathers, Wall Paper
                                                          AND
                                              BABY CARRIAGES!
                            75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

