VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1876.	NO. 22﻿.


For the EXPONENT.
			SONNET.

		BIRTHDAY THOUGHTS.

Year after year rolls down the stream of Time,
Propelling all unto the final goal,
Where eyes immortal view the emblazoned scroll
That error dims—or that with truth doth shine,
And which each prescient soul endorses "mine."
Oh! melting moment! when the quickened soul
Freed from mortality, and its control,
Can view the PAST and all its thrilling scenes,
And Life's biography at a glance can read!—
Its thrilling joys—its deathly woes—its themes
Of love and hope, its richness, and its need!
Its stern realities—and then its lulling dreams—
GOD, must prepare us for this glorious light,
For nothing mortal could endure the sight.

							HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, March 16, 1876.


For the EXPONENT.
APRIL HERALD OF SPRING.

Now April with its fresh perfume
 	Of fragrant air and gentle showers,
Scatters away the frost and gloom
 	That lingers from the winter hours.
And by the brook, or "moss-grown spring,"
 	Fond friends, or lovers, wander near;
Mellow and low the thrushes sing,
	To usher in the new-born year
Just opening to virgin life,
	Unconscious of the charms concealed—
The radiant bloom of Summer rife,
	When all earth's beauty is revealed.
Oh! springtime of the heart's true love,
	Promise of joy, and pleasure sweet,
Well may cooing of the dove
	Such tender wooing softly [-]reet
'Tis fitting time, the early Spring,
	Life's richest treasure to bestow,
While groves and woods with the music ring,
	And echoes answer soft and low.
		EMILE.
Salt Lake City, April 13, 1876.


For the Exponent.
		OBEDIENCE TO PARENTS.

	It seems to me that parents should, at all
times, and in all things, command respect
and love from their children and live in
such a manner that their children would al-
ways honor them. Some children when
they arrive at the age of maturity get high
notions into their heads, and consider them-
selves far superior to their parents, who
have cared for them in sickness and health,
and provided for them, perhaps depriving
themselves for their sakes. All children
should, when they are old enough consider
it their duty to help sustain, support and
comfort their parents in their declining
years, and let them know that their child-
ren's hearts are filled with gratitude for the
kind care they have bestowed upon them
in their youth.
	We are all children in one sense of the
word, and we should all strive to please our
earthly parents, and greatest of all conduct
ourselves in such a manner as will be pleas-
ing in the sight of our Heavenly Father.
							A. E. M.
	Pine Canyon, March 17, 1876.


THE Pawnee squaws have pin-backs, too;
and when they go shopping on a warm day
you can find nearly all their clothing on a
pin, back in a wigwam.


PRAYER.

	My essay will be addressed to the girls, as
I am a girl myself. I have made it a prac-
tice for years to pray to my Heavenly Fa-
ther night and morning, and I advise all
my young friends to do the same; the time
is coming and it is near at hand, when if
we want to be saved and enter into the
presence and glory of the Lord, we will
have to do better than we have been doing.
All those who do not pray have no idea
what sweet and heavenly thoughts prayer
gives to the mind, if they pray in faith.
Girls I would advise you to give heed to
the word of the Lord which is given through
our President Brigham Young, who by the
revelation of God has been appointed to
lead and instruct us. We should be very
thankful that there is a chance for us to be-
come celestial beings, if we so wish, by be-
ing faithful diligent and prayerful. Pray
to the Lord in faith and He will give heed
and give us great wisdom and enlighten
our minds to a very great extent, we can
gain more wisdom in this way than any
other, I know by experience. May the
Lord bless us all and may we young sisters,
follow in the footsteps of the Lord Jesus
our beloved elder brother. May we all be
prayerful, and faithful subjects to God our
Father, and live so that we may come forth
in the morning of the first resurrection with
all the blessings and privileges of the faith-
ful, is my constant prayer.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
							CORA C.


HONOR THY FATHER AND
			MOTHER.

	In the 20th chapter and 12th verse of Exo-
dus, we read the following words: "Honor
thy father and mother that thy days may be
long in the land which the Lord thy God
giveth thee." This commandment the
Lord gave to Moses and his people and it is
just as obligatory on us to-day as it was in
the days of the children of Israel. How of-
ten I have noticed and heard remarked that
people who are raised in the old countries,
are well grounded in their parents faith,
they are taught in their early youth to be
obedient to those who may be placed over
them, this is indeed an example that we
ought to follow and practice.
	Sometimes I think we mothers are sloth-
ful and careless in performing our duties to
the little ones given in our charge; if we do
not teach them to be obedient and to
reverence the Lord's commandments, while
they are young, how can we expect that
when they are grown to riper years, they
will practice that which they have never
been taught? Does not the Scriptures say,
"Train up a child in the way it should go,
and when it is old it will not depart from
it?" We ought to teach our children the
ten commandments, the Lord's Prayer and
the principles of the Gospel as we under-
stand them; and everything that will bene-
fit them in after life and not leave every-
thing to be taught at schools.
	If children could but realize the blessings
they would reap and the happiness which


their parents would feel when they were
obedient to their wishes, there would be
none but would try and cultivate the spirit
of obedience. Where can we find a more
beautiful picture than an obedient child;
they carry a good influence with them
wherever they go, and are almost always
happy. The Lord said "I come unto thee
and bless thee," and He will come unto
those who serve Him and keep His com-
mandments.
	What do we see of those who are disobe-
dient, it is the reverse in all respects; they
carry pain instead of pleasure, and have a
heavy heart under a reckless exterior.
Nine cases out of ten where you may try
and counsel for their best good, they will
say "I don't care." How many men and wo-
men are there to-day who could tell us the
foundation of their troubles in life have
arisen from the simple words, "I don't care"
and from disobeying their parents in the
days of their youth?
				M. J. R. R. HAMPTON.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE Misses Muller, Max Muller's two
daughters, have passed successful examina-
tions at Oxford, in English, French, and
German.
	ELIZABETH Stuart Phelps contributes
regularly to the Atlantic and Independent.
Her Florida Sketches are specially enter-
taining, and give to those who wish to vis-
it there for their health, many useful hints
and suggestions.
	AN old record book of a church in Conn-
ecticut, dated 1702 contains the following:
"For making a noise in church, Ann Bol-
ton, spinster, is to sit three days in the poor
pew, and pay a fine of five shillings."
	MADAME Sand, although in the evening
of life, is still industrious in her literary la-
bors, in fact it is said she accomplishes as
much in that line now, as when she was in
her prime, and has not lost any of her pow-
ers to fascinate the general public.
	LUCY Larcom it is said, began to write
verses when only seven years old: the edi-
tor who published them, wrote they were
written under the inspiration of the "mu-
ses," but the compositor made the amusing
blunder of "nurses."
	THE English Minister at Washington,
Sir Edward Thornton, has some daughters
who are spoken of as models of young la-
dies, being the personifications of bloom
and health; they dress very plainly, wear
thick-soled shoes, plain dresses, no pin-
backs and when they go out, wear heavy,
old-fashioned cloaks.
	MRS. Lucy E. Burbeck, now ninety-four
years of age, is the widow of Gen. Henry
Burbeck of the Revolution. She receives a
quarterly pension from Hartford Conn., and
is still able to sign her own vouchers.


"How to make home happy"—Some
men do it by staying at home, and some by
going away.


171		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-op-
erative Retrenchment Association held in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, April 1st, 1876. Owing to the 
rather severe illness of President Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Miss Eliza R. Snow took charge
at the meeting. After the usual prelimi-
nary ceremonies, singing, prayer, etc., min-
utes were read by the young secretaries
from the various wards, which were ex-
ceedingly interesting, and showed percepti-
bly the marked improvement in these socie-
ties, and fully illustrated the benefit which
is being derived from the organizations. It 
is producing a unity and good feeling
among the people, and developing in them
gems of thought and expression, which are
elevating and inspiring and cannot but pro-
duce good results. Miss Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. Zina D. Young, and several other able
and intelligent sisters addressed the meet-
ing their religion. The silk culture and 
straw business were largely descanted upon.
There was a very good specimen of a silk
handkerchief shown, which had been man-
ufactured here from the raw material. The 
attendance was not so large as at some pre-
vious meetings, but a good spirit prevailed,
and all present were benefitted, comforted
and instructed.

AMERICAN FORK, Feb 22d, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The annual meeting of the Young La-
dies' Mutual Improvement Association of 
this place was held Feb. 22d, 1876.
	A general invitation was extended to all,
and the meeting was largely attended. Es-
says were read and selections from good 
books. The discourses were spirited and 
full of principle, and were interspersed
with singing. All seemed to enjoy them-
selves very much. Bishop L. E. Harring-
ton being present gave us some very good 
advice.
	Great interest is taken in the meetings,
and we look forward to them with pleasure.
Our society has increased in numbers very
rapidly, and a good spirit prevails, and also
a spirit of improvement is apparent.
	Wishing success to all the faithful, we 
remain your sisters,
	Mrs. J. Durrant,
	"	E. Eastmond,	Superintendents.
	Miss M. Eastmond, President,
		E. CROMPTON, Sec'y.

NORTH OGDEN, WEBER Co.
	March 20, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Retrenchment Association was or-
ganized the 24 of March 1875, since that 
time we have held 17 meetings, and we are
happy to say there is a gradual improve-
ment in the sisters in their search after
knowledge; and we have cause to rejoice
that we are so organized that we can meet
together and speak to each other on the 
principles pertaining to life and salvation.
	The young men also have been organized
into a Mutual Improvement Association,
they are making steady progress, and are
united with the younger sisters in abstaining
from round dances, which we voted against
in our association some six months ago, and
to which, we are happy to say, we have re-
mained firm up to the present.
	Eva Chadwick, President, Elizabeth
Chadwick, and Emily Knowles, Counsel-
ors.

[COLUMN 2]

SMITHFIELD MARCH 1st, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONEMT
	A reorganization took place in our Re-
trenchment Society Feb. 12, 1876. Bishop
Samuel Roskelly and a few other brethren
met with us, organized the society and gave
us some very good instruction.  Officers as 
follows:
	Mrs. Adeline Barber, President,
	"	Jane S. Coleman,
	"	Mary J. Roskelly,
	"	Elizabeth M. Merrill,
	"	Mary E. Morriston,
	Miss Mary A. Thomas,		Counselors
	"	Emily S. Lutz,
	"	Rebecca Roskelly,
	"	Annie Smith,
	Sarah E. Layton, Secretary,
	Janet Hendrickson, Treasurer,
	Our former Treasurer, Miss Mary Cole-
man, was released to go on the Arazona
Mission. There are 118 members in our
Society. We have made a nice crochet bed-
spread to send to the Centennial; we also
have a considerable amount of straw and 
have commenced braiding. We hold our
meetings weekly; one week to work, the 
next to instruct each other; a good spirit
prevails, and all seem to be trying to im-
prove. Our resolutions are as follows:
	1. Resolved: That we attend our meet-
ings as regularly as possible, not allowing
any trifles to keep us away.
	2. Resolved: That we will not counten-
ance any rude or unlady-like conduct in
any of the members of our society
	3. Resolved: That we will not associate
or keep company with young men who
swear, and drink liquor.
	4. Resolved. That our clothing shall be
the workmanship of our own hands, as 
much as possible, and not follow the extrav-
agant fashions of the Gentiles.
	5. Resolved: That we will not scandalize
a person's character; if we cannot say any-
thing good, we will say nothing at all.
	6. Resolved: That we will be kind and 
charitable to the poor and the needy, and to 
all with whom we are surrounded.
	7. Resolved: That we will strictly ob-
serve the "Word of Wisdom, that we m[-]y
be entitled to the promise attached to it.
	8, Resolved: That we will read the rev-
eleations and commandments given to the 
Saints, and the promises attached to those
who prove faithful.
	9. Resolved: That we will attend to se-
cret prayer, and try to be useful members
in the Kingdom of God.
	SARAH E. LAYTON Sec'y.

CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., March 27, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am happy to state that our Relief So-
ciety is progressing, we have started sever-
al branches of HOME INDUSTRY that are
doing real well, and have many more in
contemplation. The winter has been very
severe here, but we have had meetings
every two weeks (with I think one or two
exceptions) which have been well attended.
A great many renewed their covenants dur-
ing the past summer, and all seem to be try-
ing to live nearer to God, and carry out the 
instructions given by His servants.
	The Young Ladies' Association has a 
beneficial effect among our young people,
their meetings are also well attended and a 
good spirit prevails.
	Praying the Lord to bless and strength-
en you in your labors, I remain your sister
in the Gospel.
	M. A. LUNT.

[COLUMN 3]

SALT LAKE CITY, March,— 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 11th Ward Relief Society is progress-
ing and doing much good; the poor in the 
ward are cared for and the sick attended to.
We meet together to make warm clothing
for the aged, the poor, and the Lamanites.
We do not want any to suffer, whether Jew
or Gentile. The Teachers look after the 
poor and see that no one suffers. Our Bish-
op and Counselors meet with us occasion-
ally and give us a word of encouragement,
and ask God to bless us in the good work,
and tell us that we are a great help to them
in looking after the needy.
	The society has helped to build the 11th
Ward New Meeting House, and when calls
are made for missionaries or anything else,
we are ready to aid in helping. A great
number have been baptized and renewed
their covenants. We feel the spirit of the 
Lord in our meetings and great love for 
each other. Our sisters met and made
clothing and bedding etc., and gave more
than one hundred dollars worth to the sis-
ters and children who have gone to Arizona
on missions.
	I know this is the work of God, and feel
happy and proud to be a member of the 
Relief and Retrenchment Societies for they
are blessed and doing much good.
	I will give you a report of the Relief So-
ciety disbursements from the 19th of April
1869, to Dec. 31, 1875.
Relief to the poor.................... $ 1,431 26
Donated to New School House.... 381 18
Emigrating the poor..................... 145 90
Missionary donations....................	32 75
Share in Co-op Store.....................	80 00
Land bought for the Society......... 251 19
	Total............   ................. $2,259 19
		MARIA BIDGOOD Sec'y.


IMPROVEMENT.

	WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE
		THE YOUNG LADIES' ANNUAL
			MEETING OF AM. FORK.

	My young sisters it has fallen to my lot
to present before you a few of my thoughts
in writing. In endeavoring to compose the
same, I feel my lack of experience and
ability to prepare anything that will be
adapted to the occasion. We are engaged
in a very good and great work, that of im-
provement, hence I have selected that as a
subject, and although much has been writ-
ten upon it, still I think there is room for
more.
	Improvement is a very comprehensive
word and applies to all the relations and du-
ties of life. I will speak more particularly
of our condition and circumstances; we are
mostly young, and in many respects lack
the experience of our parents and older
persons. Thus it is necessary for us to lis-
ten to their advice and instructions, and by
their experience, we may avoid much that
is evil. We need to improve our minds,
our persons, our habits, and our language.
We should improve in true politeness, so-
cially and morally. As members of the
church and professors of the Gospel, we
should improve in the spiritual graces and
qualify ourselves to adorn the profession we
make, and thus bear testimony to all, that
we love virtue and truth. If we faithfully
carry out the purposes of our Association
we will be diligent in our duties, in attend-
ing the meetings, and in listening to the
instructions given us. With the blessings
of the Lord we mean to improve.
					J. HEREINGTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	172


WHAT ARE WE MEN TO DO?

	BY R. W. EASTERBROOKS.

When female architects abound,
	Who skilfully design and plan—
When female builders can be found
	Whose work will vie with that of man—
When female skippers have command
	Of female ship and female crew—
When female warriors fill our land,
	What is there left for males to do?

When women shall the gospel preach;
	When women clerks infest each store;
When women diplomats shall reach
	High seats within the White House door;
When tiny hands receive the pence
	On city cars, and stages too,
What, in the name of common sense,
	Is left for outcast men to do?

"Why not exchange?" says thoughtless wight,
	Hush! senseless man—you only rant—
We would, with pleasure, if we might,
	But God has fixed it so we can't.
The babies must be borne and nursed
	By female mothers: therefore, few
Of gentler mold can e'er be cursed
	With what we dread—no work to do.


FLORAL HINTS.

	INSECTS IN PLANTS:—To prevent insects
from troubling plants, take one ounce of
carbonate of ammonia, one half ounce of
sulphuric acid, and mix together, (this forms
sulphate of ammonia) then add one drachm
of creosote and put all into two gallons of
rain water; pour into each pot about one
gill once a month; this keeps them from
the roots besides being a good manure.
Once or twice a week give the plants a
thorough drenching with luke warm water,
which keeps them from the leaves, it also
washes off the dust which is sure to accu-
mulate; keep the earth loose in the pots,
and occasionally work in a little powdered
charcoal, or leached ashes, but only occas-
ionally. Saturate sponges with water and
stand them on plates around and among the
window plants. This will supply moisture
to neutralize the effects of any furnace or
grate heat.
	The cultivation of the Cactus is in gener-
al very easy; any common soil with the ad-
dition of sand, broken brick or gritty stone,
to keep the soil open with a good drainage
for the pots, and careful watering at all
times; the plants suffer more from too much
water than if allowed to become dry. All
the different species of Cactus, are natives
of arid soil; with scarcely an exception, if
allowed to become quite dry in winter, a
temperature just above freezing will do no
injury: many of the large species require
no water for several months in winter; if
grown in a low temperature; these will
usually flower in the summer.
	The variety of Cactus bearing pink flow-
ers, grows rapidly, blooms profusely, and
can be set in the cellar during winter, and
repays one abundantly for all trouble; for
soil for the several varieties, use well rot-
ted cow-manure, dry it and pulverize it,
pound up a brick very fine, add some sand,
and the dirt from old sods, and they will
be very sure to succeed; it is a plant that
will bear a great deal of neglect.
	THE cultivation of the violet is similar
to that of the strawberry, if the violets are
planted in rows and ridged up a little they
will grow luxuriantly and bloom more
abundantly, It is well to set out fresh beds
of them every year, the suckers can be re-
moved early in the spring, when the old
plants are in full bloom, and these beds will
blossom all the winter. If the locality is
very cold they will require some protection,
from the frost, and the beds should be cov-


ered with a frame and sash, and well pro-
tected by mattings and banked up with sta-
ble litter. Violets can be grown in pots,
and brought into the house when they are
covered with flowers, but they will not live
long in a furnace-heated room or where
there is much sunlight, only sufficient
warmth to keep them from chilling is need-
ful for their growth.


[Column 1]
	THE ENGLISH PRINCIPALITY OF
			WALES FOUNDED.

	FEBRUARY 7, 1301.—Llewelyn, the last
native Prince of Wales, had been a partizan
of De Montfort in the Barons' war against
Henry III., and although he was included
in the pacification made in 1267, it was ac-
companied by the condition that he should
do homage for his principality to England.
Accordingly, when Edward I. became king
he was summoned to do so, but he declined,
unless he had hostages given for his safety,
saying that he remembered the fate of his
father, Griffin, who had been imprisoned in
the Tower, and was killed in trying to make
his escape. The demand was treated as
an insult, and Eleanor de Montfort, who
was about to marry Llewelyn, was seized
and imprisoned, although she was the
king's cousin. Llewelyn in vain offered a
ransom for her; his lands were declared to
be forfeited, and after a brief campaign, in
1277 he was obliged to submit. Having
formally surrendered all his territory except
the mountain regions of Snowdon and the
Isle of Anglesey, for which he was to pay
an annual tribute of 1,000 marks, his bride
was delivered to him, and he returned to
Wales; but made to bear the oppressions of
the royal officer who had been put in pos-
session of his lands. He took up arms in
1282, destroyed some of their castles, and
carried off Roger de Clifford, the justiciary,
who died a prisoner in his hands. He also
inflicted a severe defeat on the English
forces as they attempted to cross the Con-
way, but was soon after betrayed to the
Marches, and killed in cold blood. His
brother David, who attempted to continue
the hopeless struggle; had to surrender, and
was condemned as a traitor and executed,
September 20, 1283. He and Llewelyn
both left motherless daughters, who were
sent to a nunnery in Lincolnshire, where
Llewelyn's child at least was alive in 1327;
how much longer is not known.
	Soon after the execution of David, the
victor held a parliament at Rhuddlan, where
was enacted what was called the Statue of
Wales. After an acknowledgement of the
Divine providence that had now given him
in full possession what had always right-
fully been his, the king, "at the prayer of
his loving subjects," allows them to retain
their ancient laws in civil causes, but sub-
stitutes the English criminal law, and ap-
points sheriffs, coroners, and bailiffs for the
greater part of North Wales; the rest of
the country after some strong towns had
been taken from them, was left in the hands
of the Lords Marchers, who from the time
of William the Conqueror had been en-
gaged in one ceaseless course of aggression
on the Welsh, and thus were far more
odious to the people than the royal officers
themselves. They were, in fact, an object
of jealous suspicion to the king, and he
built many strong castles in Wales, at Caer-
narvon, Conway, and Harlech in the north,
and Cilgarran and Carphilly in the south;
and settled English Colonists in several of
the towns, quite as much as a check on
them as on the natives.
	The king set to work to conciliate the

[Column 2]
people through their clergy. He bestowed
marked favor on Anian, a bishop, who
gave him a piece of "the true cross," and
paid considerable sums to churches that had
been plundered during the war; he also
granted freedom from tolls throughout his
dominions to several of the chief towns. But
in spite of these advances, an insurrection
broke out in 1287, and though it was soon
put down and the leader (Rhysap Meredith,
of the old princely line) hanged, Edward
thought it wise to let the valor of the
Welsh exhaust itself in his foreign wars;
thus anticipating the policy of the elder
Pitt with the Highlanders. Other mon-
archs followed his example, and even as late
as the time of Elizabeth, the "Welsh foot"
bore, as a separate body, no inconsiderable
part in the English armies.


OBEDIENCE.

	ESSAY READ BEFORE THE Y. L. M. I.
		A. OF AM. FORK, Feb. 6, 1876.

	Dear sisters I am happy in meeting with
you to-night on this the first anniversary
of our organization. I have chosen the
subject of obedience and have tried to write
a few words on this great and glorious prin-
ciple. Believing what the Psalmist David
said to be true, namely; that "obedience is
better than sacrifice, and to hearken than
the fat of rams," I have endeavored to
comply with the request made, to exchange
a few thoughts in this way, with you my
young sisters. I think to-night would be a
very good time for each one of us to take
into consideration how much, and how far,
we have been obedient during the past year?
Has my father or mother asked anything of
me that I have not complied with? Have
my leaders in this society required anything
of me that I have refused to try and do?
Have my sisters or brothers sought a kind-
ness at my hand that I have denied, which
would have resulted in good? Or has the
Priesthood given any general instruction
during the past year that I have not felt
willing to carry out? If such is the case
with any of us, we had better cultivate the
spirit of obedience, for if we cannot obey
in little things we shall fail in larger ones.
If the maxim is true; that "the boy makes
the man," I maintain that the girl makes
the woman, and if the girlhood is charac-
terized by virtue and obedience, the wo-
manhood will be rewarded, at least by a
happy reflection of the past, and bright
hopes for the future, when justice will be
meted out to all. Then dear sisters, let us
be encouraged to obey all commands that
are for our good, remembering that with-
out obedience we can never return to the
immediate presence of our Heavenly Fath-
er. One of our best poets says, "obedience
is the common lot of all. No being is ex-
empt. Not even God." And if that
glorious, powerful Personage who holds the
Universe in His hands is not free from the
law of Obedience, I ask is poor mortal im-
perfect man? No Verily No.
						E. J. DURANT.


POETRY and romance are often spoken of
as things of mere fancy wanting substance.
Yet there is nothing more real than the poe-
try of nature itself, and nothing sweeter.
sadder, or more sublime than the romance
which may be traced through every-day
practical life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE R. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00, per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1876.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	How to economize time, how to make the
best use of every moment, and how to find mo-
ments enough to accomplish all she desires, is
one of the most important questions with the
young housekeeper, or the young lady who
wishes to acquire a practical knowledge of
housekeeping.
	When a young girl wishes to assist in the
duties of the household, and yet have fixed
hours for other things, she should choose those
departments which are independent of others;
such as doing up her own collars and muslins,
taking care of her bed room, trimming the
lamps and making them ready for use, waiting
on the table, washing up the dishes after sup-
per, and many other things that can be quickly
disposed, and leave her at leisure for other em-
ployments. Where it is necessary, however,
to co-operate with others, this should be done
agreeably, and private arrangements should be
made to accord. If required to make cake or
pies, and it can be done before breakfast, there
is a great saving of time in this; as by rising a
little earlier than usual it may be accomplished
without sacrificing any of the customary oc-
cupations. The proper dress for the business
can be put on at once, and time may be saved
in that way also.
	At breakfast, a grown-up daughter should re-
lieve her mother of the trouble of presiding,
and by giving her mind to the subject and
learning all her mother's ways, make it agree-
able to her to resign the office. Some young
ladies, who are earnest to be of use and take
some of their mothers' duties on themselves,
by not entering into the true spirit of the bus-
iness and learning to do things in the best
way, render their services unacceptable. And
far from being conscious that the fault is in
themselves, they blame their mothers for not
allowing them to share their burdens. And
again, some mothers are at fault in these
things. It is a mistaken kindness for a moth-
er to excuse her daughter from all participation
in the work of the house, and it is mistaken
economy for her to prefer always to attend to
the most particular portions of the work her-
self, rather than trust them to her daughter or
take the trouble of teaching her. But, as we
have before shown, the daughter should take
an individual interest, and by being deter-
mined and exact, make her mother feel well
in relinquishing some of the more important
cares of the household.
	Delicacy and neatness may be shown in the
manner of handling cups or plates, and in
helping persons to the simplest fare at the
humblest board. A thousand little niceties
will occur to the girl who gives due attention
to the subject, and resolves to accomplish do-


mestic duties with the thrift of a good house-
keeper, and the ease and dignity of a refined
lady. When once good habits are acquired in
this department, it will require less attention,
and things will always be done in the best way
without the necessity of much thought being
bestowed upon them. Discipline or the want
of it is much the same in all departments of
human proceedings. As in writing, a good
scholar spells correctly without thinking, a
poor one incorrectly without knowing it, just
so are household duties performed by the edu-
cated or uneducated housewife.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	Forty-Sixth Annual Conference, of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
convened in the New Tabernacle in this city
on the morning of April sixth 1876. There
were present, President Brigham Young,
Daniel H. Wells, several of the "Twelve"
and most of the other presidents and counsel-
ors of quorums of the church. It was an unu-
sually large conference and the ceremonies
preaching, praying and singing were excellent
and in direct correspondence with the spirit of
reformation and HOME-MANUFACTURE. Presi-
dent Young in addressing the people, urged
them to live their religion, to observe the laws
pertaining to the kingdom of God, and espec
ially to exert themselves to aid in building the
Temple. There were many excellent sermons
preached and much instruction given by the
Twelve, and other Elders, some of whom had
just returned from missions. Conference
adjourned Sunday evening the 9th of April and
until the 6th of October 1876.
	MR. P. S. Gilmore's band performed in the
theatre Wednesday evening Apr. 12, and in the
New Tabernacle Apr. 13, in the afternoon.
The concerts were decidedly the finest ever
given in Salt Lake. Programmes varied and
extensive. We have neither space or ability
to enlarge upon this subject. They drew full
houses and were thoroughly appreciated. Mr.
Levy the cornet player, cannot be surpassed.
The bewitching and fascinating music he pours
forth is something really wonderful. This
"troupe" is the finest trained, and surpasses
any other of the kind in America. Their ser-
vices are secured for the Centennial Exposi-
tion.
	THROUGH THE courtesy of Mrs. W. East, we
received the news of the sudden death of Mrs.
Diana Greer Camp, who died at the residence
of her daughter, Mrs. Ellen Greer, in Bosque
Co., Texas, while absent on a visit to her
friends in that vicinity, on Saturday the 18th,
of March, 1876. She left this city in company
with Mr. and Mrs. East, well and in good
spirits Nov. 8th, 1875. On the journey, and
during her stay in Texas, she was full of faith,
and bore an earnest testimony to all she met of
the Gospel, and departed this life in full faith;
her only regret being that she must die far
from her home, from those she loved, and the
faithful Saints. The day previous to her death
she had been assisting at quilting, and retired
to bed in her usual apparent health. She awak-
ened the family at eleven o'clock and died
about two hours after, peaceably and without a
struggle, her friends for some time thinking
her asleep. Previous to her death she exhort-
ed her children to gather with the Saints, and
prepare for the resurrection of the just.
	Deceased was born at Sumner Co., Tenn.,
Nov. 28th, 1806; emigrated to Nauvoo with her
husband and family in 1843, where she em-
braced the Gospel, and was baptized by Elder

[Column 2]
John Taylor. She leaves quite a large family
of children and grand-children to mourn her
loss.							COM.]
	POWER EXPLOSION: Wednesday, April 5th,
1876, will probably be ever memorable in Salt
Lake City, as a day of fearful disaster. Shortly
before 5 o'clock p. m., the magazines on Arsen-
Hill exploded, with three tremendous shocks
shaking the whole city and country for miles
around. The first not wholly subsided before
another and still louder noise followed, and
quickly following a third still louder and hea-
vier shock came. People rushed wildly in
every direction, teams ran hither and yon, the
largest and strongest buildings swayed to
and fro, ceilings fell, doors were burst from
their fastenings, glass flew in all directions.
In the upper wards of the city, showers of
rocks, large and small, and other material de-
scended, crushing through roofs and plough-
ing into gardens and streets. Many women
fainted, and even strong men were horrified,
but providentially only four lives were taken
of which any positive knowledge has been ob-
tained. The victims of the catastrophe were Mrs.
Mary Jane Van Natta, of the 19th ward who
was pumping water at the well, when a bould-
er struck her in the back, killing her instantly,
horribly crushing and mangling her. The rock
had been thrown at least three quarters of a
mile from the magazine. A boy three years and
a hal[-] old in the 20th ward, James H. Radden
was struck by a rock and instantly killed. The
two boys who were killed near the spot, and the
firing of whose guns it is supposed was the cause
of this lamentable affair, were Richardson and
Hill, the former, the son of Dr. Darwin Rich-
ardson deceased, and Mrs. Grace Richardson of 
14th ward, was 18 years of age. The other
was the son of Archibald and Margaret Hill,
19th ward, 16 years of age. The bodies of these
boys were blown all to pieces, and the parts
have not been all found as yet.
	Charles Johnson, 19th ward, Mrs. PeterThomason, 20th ward, Mrs. Dahlquist, 19th.
ward, were severely injured, but not fatally.
David P. Kimball's (18th ward) little boy had
the tip of his ear taken off by a piece of rock.
	We have not space to give more particulars,
but the damage cannot be accurately estima-
ted: most of the loss was in glass—many large
French plate glass windows being destroyed in
many different public and private buildings.
	It is greatly to be hoped that this fearful oc-
currence will cause people to reflect and not
only make them cautio[-]s in the use and stor-
age of powerful inflammable materials; but, al-
so to prepare themselves for whatever exigen-
cies future life may bring. This wonderful
catastrophe is at present the general topic of
conversation, and probably will be for some
time to come.


MRS. M. I. HORNE'S LETTER,

			(CONTINUED.)

	Leaving Evanston, I had a very cold sleigh-
ride over to Paris, where I arrived safe and
well after a two day's ride, and found my
children all well, but very anxious about me;
they have had a very un[-]sual stormy winter;
I noticed that the snow had drifted over the
fences, so that in going to a house you would
have to walk over the tops of the fences and
go through deep cuts. Paris has improved
since I was there a year and a half ago; several
new buildings have been put up. They have
two day schools, and their Sunday school is
well conducted and attended. I visited their
Sabbath school and by the invitation of the


[Column 1]
superintendent Bro. Hodge, made a few re-
marks to the children, on obedience to  parents,
respect to their teachers, and good behavior.
On the 3rd of February, I met with the Relief
Society. President Rich, and Bishops Budge
and Horne met with us, much useful instruc-
tion was imparted, the brethren giving encour-
agement to the sisters. On the 7th of Febru-
ary I was blest with another little grandson,
my twenty-seventh grandchild. As soon as I
could leave my daughter, I was invited to vis-
it St. Charles. I met with the Relief Society
in the afternoon; the Bishop and several breth-
ren were present. The spirit of Go[-] was poured
out upon the speakers, both brethren and sis-
ters. In the evening I met with the Young
Ladies' Society; there were a great many more
brethren present in the evening, and we had
an excellent meeting.
	The next day I went to Bloomington; two
sleigh loads went with me from St. Charles; I
experienced some of the difficulties of travel-
ing in the winter, there was only one beaten
track, and the snow was several feet deep.
When we met a loaded team we had to turn
out of the road to let them pass, as soon as the
horses stepped off the road, down they went as
if they were going to be covered up, plunging
and jumping to extricate themselves, while the
riders were climbing to the tops of the sleighs
to keep from upsetting. When the poor hors-
es got on the track again they were sweating
and panting, this occurred three times in a
distance of six miles. When we arrived at
Bloomington, the Bishop and several of the
brethren were gathered with the Relief Society
ready for meeting. After the sisters got
through speaking, the Bishop made some ex-
cellent remarks. The next week the sisters in-
vided me to organize the young ladies. We
met and I organized them into a Retrench-
ment Association on Thursday of the next
week. The house was well filled with the
brethren and sisters; their worthy Bishop being
present. Much good instruction was given, af-
ter the organization was over, by Bishop Os-
mond and several of the other brethren.
	On the Saturday following I met with and
organized the young ladies of Paris into a Re-
trenchment Association. President Rich and
Bishop Budge with several other brethren were
present, we had a very interesting time to-
gether, President Rich giving a great deal of
good counsel and excellent advice to them.
the Bishop also expressed great satisfaction
with the organization, offering to meet with
them and give counsel at any time, if they
wished him to do so. There having been some
misunderstanding about the time of meeting,
just as we dismissed, several sleigh, loads of
people drove up from Bloomington to attend
the meeting, but they were too late. I felt
humbled almost to tears to see the interest the
brethren as well as the sisters manifested,
wherever I held meetings. Much prejudice
was removed with regard to the sisters meet-
ing together in the capacity of Relief Societies.
Whenever I was invited to meet with the sis-
ters, I prayed that the Lord would give me
such words as the people most needed, and
when the Bishops and brethren would say
they had been instructed and edified, I felt
that my labors had not been in vain. Truly
the Lord poured out His spirit upon me, and
as a mother in Israel I tried to discharge my
duty, in counseling and instructing the sisters
on the responsibilities that devolve upon them
as wives and mothers, and as members of Re-
lief Societies. Also to sustain HOME MANU-
FACTURES, and help build up the kingdom of
God. I advised them not to send East for
trashy literature, but instead subscribe for the

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, which would give
them information from other parts of the Ter-
ritory.
	I cannot tell you half of my experience here,
in this letter. I have enjoyed my labors and
duties, and trust that I have sown some good
seed.
	With prayers and best wishes for all who are
interested in the building up of the Kingdom
of God.
	I am as ever your Sister in the Gospel of
Peace,
							M. I. HORNE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	174


[COLUMN 1]

LETTERS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have just returned from a very pleasant
trip to Spanish Fork, and thinking some items
might be interesting, I have endeavored to pre-
sent a few of the main incidents of my stay
in as brief a manner as possible.
	The first thing that attracts a stranger's at-
tention is the length, North and South, of the
village. But the houses in the main, look
clean and comfortable. We were very hosipt-
ably received and entertained by Mrs. Rochill;
but I discovered that one of my friends was
there, also, on a visit to her mother. So, as she
pressed me very kindly to go and stay with
her, I changed my quarters.
	The next day being the Sabbath, we pre-
pared to attend Church. I was quite agreeably
disappointed in finding so nice a meeting-
house. You enter quite a roomy hall and go
from there either up to the gallery or in the
main part of the building. It is finished off
very neatly and prettily on the inside, and
speaks very highly indeed for the taste and en-
ergy of the inhabitants of Spanish Fork. The
singing was excellent, and the preaching good.
In the evening we attended and listened to a
most stirring and eloquent sermon from a
young Elder.
	Next day we attended the regular weekly
meeting of the Young Ladies Retrenchment
Society which was well conducted by Miss
Maria Finch, (the Pres. Miss Warren, being on
a visit to Springville.) The house was tolera-
bly full, and there seemed to be an earnest
thoughtful spirit prevailing. Several of the
brethren met with the sisters that day, and
Bro. Wilkins gave them some excellent in-
struction. They have a weekly paper, and the
one I heard read was a fair specimen of intelli-
gence. One of the young ladies reads a chap-
ter from the Book of Mormon, and then ex-
plains it according to her ideas. The young
sisters seem to realize to a great degree the im-
portance of the work they are engaged in.
	I received numberless invitations to visit the
different families, and most heartily thank all
the friends I made while there, for their
kindness and hospitality to me. Charlie was
always ready to take us in his two-seated
buggy, and I appreciated his kindness thor-
oughly; while I think I never have met with a
more sociable and cheerful people. Bro. Cor-
naby kindly took us to see his bee-hives,
showed us the inside of one and pointed out
the queen. He also initiated us into the sys-
tem of silk raising, and kept us supplied with
honey all the time we were there. He and
his lovely wife, the gifted poetess, entertained
us so well, that we were loth to leave a home
where peace held such dominion. May Heav-
en's choicest blessings rest on that refined and
gentle couple.
	I must also mention Mrs. Morey and her
daughter, and can truly say that they are two
of the most accomplished hostesses I ever met.
	One thing especially I noticed in this settle-

[COLUMN 2]

ment, is the number of families where plural-
ity of wives is practiced. I can say with truth
that I never heard of any unhappiness in their
midst. One family I must mention in particu-
lar, where there are eight wives. Two live out
on a farm and manufacture all the butter and
cheese, while the other six live in one large
house in the town. They form quite a little
world of themselves. They told me they had
lived happily in plurality ever since they were
married. They have a loom in the house,
weave their own cloth, make up themselves
what they require for use, and sell the surplus;
in fact, to sum up the whole, they are thor-
oughly independent. They have over thirty
children living in the house; and well-behaved,
nice, smart good-looking children they are too.
I sincerely hope the time will soon come when
we will all live together as peaceably as this
family.
	I had the privilege of signing a woman's pe-
petion, for the suppression, or limitation of
selling spirituous liquors. I trust they will
meet with entire success.
	"Annty" and I were very unwilling to come
home so soon, but we were obliged to do so.
	There are a great many more things I might
speak about, but I have occupied space enough,
and will close my letter, hoping that the good
people of Spanish Fork may always have
plenty of bread, butter, honey and peaches,
whenever it is my happy lot to be in their
cozy town. I remain,
	Respectfully,
		A. B. D.


ESSAY ON UNITY.

	By the united efforts of the people na-
tions rise, and become powerful; by devia-
tion and discord they fall and crumble to
pieces. Jesus prayed that his disciples,
might be one with Him, as He was one
with the Father. Thus we see it is neces-
sary for the people of God to be united to
carry on the work of God. It is by the
unity of the Latter-day Saints that they
have been able to stand the persecution of
the enemy, and build up the kingdom of
God in these the latter-days. By their
united efforts, and the blessing of God at-
tending them, they have made Utah which
was once a barren desert, to become a beau-
tiful field, all that has been accomplished
has been by the Saints united faith and con-
fidence in God. If God was to suffer their
union to be broken, they could not accom-
plish anything.
	Dear sisters, what can we do to help build
up the kingdom of God? We can do a
great deal if we are united. God has in-
spired His servants to cause these associa-
tions to be organized in order that we young
girls may be trained according to His will,
and forsake the pride and vanity of Baby-
lon. Then let us with one heart and one
mind unite together and carry out those
instructions which are calculated to benefit
and bless us.

	How joyful and pleasant when sisters agree,
	Bound closely together in sweet unity-
		S. L. City, March 29, 1876.
								SARAH.


SCENE at a butcher's stand: Butcher—
"Come, John, be lively now; break the
bones in Mrs. William's chops, and put Mr.
Smith's ribs in the basket for him." John,
(briskly)—"All right, sir, just as soon as
I've sawed off Mrs. Murphy's leg."


175		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				THOUGHTS.

		"Our early days!—How often back
		We turn on life's bewildering track
		To where o'er hill and valley, plays
		The sunlight of our early days!"

	In looking back over our past lives we see
many bright and happy periods, sunshine
and rainbow hues, and tints and shades of
loveliness, and glad hours of joy and rest.
We cannot help contrasting these with the
time, the place and the happy moments;
the friends of other days, the places we oc-
cupied together, the studies, the amuse-
ments we shared, the scenes of beauty we
admired—all these throng the minds with
their accompaniments, and we pause and al-
most hold our breath, as we wonder where
are they now? Those friends of the past,
the companions of other days who strolled
with us through the grand old forests, and
sat beside us on the mossy rocks under the
shade of the graceful bending hemlocks,
and the grandeur of the giant elms: buoy-
ant and gay with hope in the spring-time
of life, when all the world seemed glowing
with enthusiastic aspirations which emana-
ted from the fresh fountains of our own Joy-
ous hearts. Then we saw only the beauty,
the sweetness of life, the honied odor of
the morning fragrance; the rosy tints of the
rising dawn, and we gazed in awe and won-
der, while around us the morning light en-
circled in a mellow halo all that we held
dearest and best.
	This is the season which best represents
the entering of the soul into that ideal life,
before the hard realities burst in upon us,
in the blaze of meridan splendor. Wel-
come fresh d[-]wy and propitious Spring!
We hail thee as the harbinger of the prom-
ise of plenty and comfort. With thy ap-
proach comes the soft and tender touch of
zephyrs, the harmonious songs of birds, the
hum of myriads of busy insects, the chirp of
the cricket, the ploughman's whistle, the
morning song of the laborer, the trill of the
flower girl. These melodies are wafted by
thy balmy breath, O glorious Spring! These
rambling thoughts bring back to us, the
very hills we climbed in merry pastime,
with the bright sky beyond, which we
could almost fancy rested on some towering
mountain in the distance, and our young
tender minds could scarcely conjecture the
great and sublime mysteries which involve
life and destiny. Every returning Spring
brings with it some of the pleasing hopes
and dreams of childhood. Alas! Only in rec-
ollection.
	When the mind and body seem exhaust-
ed with the continued exertion of striving
against cold and inclemency, and these
sunny hours inspire them with their recur-
ring freshness, we seem to grow even
younger, and all our faculties are quickened
under the genial influence of the warmth,
radiance and friendliness of the beams
of the Sovereign planet of the Universe.
	Who has not felt the invigorating influ-
ence of the beginning of Spring? The faint
silvery warblings of the thrush and song-
sparrow, heard over the dreary and almost
bare fields, the cooing of the song-birds for
their mates; these musical notes fall on the
ear with a peculiar and significant pathos.
The very brooks sing gay carols and joyous
glees, as they leap and bound over their
shining pebbly beds. The melancholy frogs
croak more cheerfully and incessantly at
the water's edge, and the sound is almost
welcome as it fortells the coming of the
beautiful virgin, whose approach is herald-
ed with verdure, buds and blossoms. The
whole earth seems to partake of the silent
language of nature, and everywhere bursts

[Column 2]
forth in harmony to the time, and with sym-
pathetic chorus joins in the universal glad-
ness which ascends to heaven in one grand
anthem of rejoicing from meadow, grove,
mountain and forest, from all animate and
inanimate creations.
	Methinks I hear some prosy, matter-of-
fact practical people, as they glance casu-
ally at this, exclaim, this is a hackneyed
subject, a very school-girl's strain—and
why not, must we forever be stretching our
ideas, and reaching into the abstruse regions
of reason and philosophy—the mind must
sometimes rest itself with happier topics,
what if it does float for a few short hours in
the bright atmosphere of dreamy fancies?
Solids cannot always be taken, there must
be some recreation of thought, or we
should be weighed down with the burden
of our heavy theories. When we have
strolled 'mid nature's bowers and drank in
the exhilaration of the freshening elemen-
tary compound, every faculty of mind seems
braced and strengthened, and the vigor and
tone of our intellect simultaneously heigh-
tened.
	It is delightful to wander back in vision
to similar seasons in the "long ago;" to com-
pare the thoughts of other days with the
present, and trace in and out through the
intricate and elaborate windings, the rou-
tine of our lives from that early period, to
the one in which we now live and act.
	We are thus constrained to remember in-
cidents in which, a special Providence was
our only safeguard. It is good for us to
have these reflections, they teach us useful
lessons, help us to bear other sorrows
and perplexities, and give us faith in the
future, and simplicity of trust in that pro-
tecting arm that has shielded and comfort-
ed our hearts while resting under the dark
shadows of the clouds of human weakness.
We come forth in the Spring buoyant with
hope, gloom seems dispelled by the sun's
rays, the nurse of nature; and is he not a
tender and genial one? All things grow bet-
ter under his radiant influence.
	All who have been made to feel the icy
hand of winter cramping their freedom of
action and of purpose, constrained to find
resources of comfort and pleasure within
some certain circle of warmth, cannot but
realize a renovating reaction physically,
and mentally when the Spring puts forth,
and the young buds shoot, the grass springs
up in the meadows and lawns, and the
smiling face of nature cheers the dreary
landscape. The universal desolation of
Winter so affects the mind which sympa-
thizes so truly with outside influences that
it is almost as vacant of joy and bright ideas
as the forest is of leaves and the groves of
song. When April and May reign and the
shifting from Winter to Summer, we un-
consciously, momentarily give care to the
winds, and revel in the potency of the per-
vading stimulus of sunshine.

	"Day and the sweet approach of even and morn,
	And sight of vernal bloom and Summer's rose,
	And flocks and herds, and human face divine."

	The earth illuminated in beauty, and
smiling in joy at this season of the year,
proclaims with a language unmistakable the
love and tenderness of our Maker. The
sensitive heart is touched appealingly and
worships with renewed devotion that God,
who speaks to us in ten thousand voices
mingled in harmony. The universe is in-
deed God's temple, and He the reigning
Deity, and man should be the devout wor-
shipper. The soul that understands most
of light and intelligence, cannot but be a
true lover of nature's wildest and most pic-
turesque scenes. Every thing that has
life, evinces by its own peculiar instincts,

[Column 3]
the indulgence at these seasons, of nature
for her offspring. The young lambs frisk
and gambol in their hilly pastures, and the
herds of cattle scatter about in the mea-
dows, or lie upon the ground as if enjoying
the peaceful hours of tranquility. The sol-
itary places do not seem lonely, for the
world itself partakes involuntarily of hap-
piness and basks in the shining hours of
nature's luxury.
	Afar in the dim distance we see the glit-
tering peaks of the lofty mountains, and
we fancy they are deadly cold, and shud-
der as we view the almost immeasurable
heights of such dazzling whiteness, and we
can but compare them to those heights of
ambition so longed after by the world, be-
tween which and the aspirant for greatness,
lie the yawning gulfs, the unreliant chasms,
the terrible precipices, ridges and fields, all
of which must be passed to gain the cove-
ted heights. And when all has been ac-
complished perhaps bruised, bleeding and
torn the pinnacle of ambition is reached
and every obstacle overcome, we are no
more self helpful except from the experi-
ence gained, than if we had still lingered
in the valley below; we cannot live upon
greatness or brilliant attainments, only as
we assimilate them to the circumstances of
human life. Victory and power are only
beneficial as they subserve wise and judi-
cious purposes. Nothing can give us true
and lasting satisfaction and peace but the
triumph of correct and holy principles.
We are engaged in the great arena of the
battle of life; we want to maintain health
and self-possession equal to every emerg-
ency: and an intimate association with na-
ture often gives relief to the mind and
physical strength to the body. The constant
turmoil and excitement of a busy life, the
agitation of the passions, the various con-
tending influences, the rapid progress of
science, the spirit of individual ambition
and emulation, wear upon the organization
and produce a combination of circumstances
which make it not only desirable but nec-
essary that we should sometimes seek soft-
ening and peaceful influences. We need re-
pose of mind, and we find it in the haunts
of nature; the wooded glen, the shade of
the trees refresh us, the healthful breezes
cool our heated brows; the flowers cheer
and stimulate without excitement; the birds
sing to us and we catch the inspiration, and
our hearts drink in their simple melody.
The thin and flimsy partitions of conven-
tionalism crumble away in the grand and
mighty forests and wilds of mountain soli-
tudes, and the man of the world casts
aside inadvertently the garb of custom and
mingles with infinite delight and enthusi-
asm with the companionship chance throws
in his way. The barriers of society cannot
exist among nature's wilds; for the universe
has been given to the whole human family,
and under the broad canopy of heaven the
man of cultivation and the peasant are
equally pleased.
	Spring brings with it more definitely the
presence of life, for we all during the cold
winter months have felt an undefined
longing for fresh green nature; and so have
kept near us in our homes some green thing,
or even the magnificently-hued Autumn
leaves, to cheer and alleviate our sorrow for
the death and burial of the flowers. In
many countries the houses are ornamented
all the winter with trailing evergreens for
remembrances, and messages of promise of
the returning spring. To me this season of
the year seems Nature's holiday; all living
things rejoice and vegetation bursts forth
upon the world to gladden and adorn. The
spring time of blossoming has come, the


green grass is springing everywhere, span-
gled with dandelions and cowslips. In my
childhood at this season of the year we were
wont to ramble in the woods and hunt the
lily of the valley, and the early violet, hid
under the moss, and covered over with
snow; their perfume is delightful as they
are brought from their hiding place, so ar-
tistically has Mother Nature provided them
nurture.
	How competent is the great Author of all
to preserve intact the embryo blossom of
all varieties of vegetation, and we can but
acknowledge the mercy and tenderness
with which He has restored earth again to
beauty, which, while it elevates, refreshes,
invigorates and inspires, leads us to adore
the wonderful power which guides, controls
and animates all life and matter; and we
seem to form some idea of the perfection of
creation and the glory of Paradise. Indeed
might we with the author exclaim—"Fa-
ther, thou hast made all things beautiful in
their time."
							AUNT EM.
	Salt Lake City, April 10, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	176


[Column 1]
	PINE CANYON, TOOELE Co., Jan. 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The subject of raising silk is awakening
some interest in this Territory, and we
watch with much anxiety the silk associa-
tion in Salt Lake City, as an example for
the Territory. The raising of silk may be
made a very profitable enterprise, by em-
ploying thousands of the inhabitants of this
Territory in cultivating the mulberry trees,
and feeding the worms. The silk busi-
ness is but little understood by the best in-
formed on the subject among us, and not
understood at all by most of the inhabitants
of this Territory. That there is much
wealth in the silk business is unquestiona-
ble. The mulberry tree will grow about the
same as the peach tree, in almost any kind
of soil, but both will grow and prosper the
best in good rich soil. The mulberry tree
will raise its foliage without irrigation—the
leaves maturing sufficiently from the snow
and rainfall of the winter and spring.
These trees may be successfully raised with-
out irrigation. I have about 500 trees, some
of them about nine feet high and they pros-
per well without irrigation, and very little
cultivation. The bench oaks and maples
both mature their foliage annually with the
snow and rainfalls from above—in the same
manner will the mulberry tree prosper, and
it has been my conviction for sometime
that this Territory is allowing probably a
million of dollars annually to remain in the
soil, that might be obtained by the cultiva-
tion of silk. In the month of May of 1874
I transplanted about 1,500 young trees to a
part of my farm, and with few exceptions
they have thrived well without any irriga-
tion, and I do not intend to give them any
water; the land is hilly and irregular and
cannot be irrigated to advantage. During
last year (1875) my 500 trees retained their
foliage till the frost came. I have been ex-
perimenting, and observing the progress of
the silk interests in this Territory for sever-
al years—almost since the silk subject com-
menced to be argued, written about and ac-
ted upon. The mulberry tree may be win-
ter irrigated after the summer season is
past. It will wet the soil deep down, which
will amply supply the roots with moisture
to raise good crops of silk, as well as cause
the trees to grow luxuriantly. If the soil is
wet deep down, the pabulum can be absorbed
by the roots easily. Winter irrigation for
the mulberry, and summer irrigation for

[Column 2]
other kinds of produce will make Utah rich.
	The question may arise, will not the mul-
berry tree be killed by winter irrigation?
Two years ago I allowed the water to run
among the 1,500 hundred trees before men-
tioned, all winter and not one tree was
killed to my knowledge.
	There are many thousands of acres of
land here in Tooele Co., that may be made
available for the cultivation of silk, and
materially enrich the country. In every
part of the Territory where the mulberry
tree will grow, the water may be applied
to much advantage in the winter. It is dif-
ficult to kill the trees with frost, the roots
descend deep into the soil and will endure
a great deal. The tree should be well culti-
vated, kept free from weeds, and the soil
around the roots kept light and loose. They
may be planted five by five, or two by six
feet apart, so as to be accessible by a horse
and plow—the same as corn. The trees four
feet apart would be 2,720 to the acre, and
five feet apart 1,742 to the acre. What
amount of silk can be raised to an acre of
three year old trees, well cultivated? I
wish some of our silk raisers would inform
us.
	There is one remarkable fact in the feed-
ing of the worms—if they are fed leaves
from irrigated trees and the acid juicy fluid
is in the leaves in its unripe state, it will
give the worms the colic, or in other words
a deathly consumptive appearance, and will
shortly kill them if continued. The leaves
should be as ripe as possible when fed to
them. The silk is made from, and com-
posed of the ripe resinous elements with
which the leaves are impregnated, and
therefore should be good and ripe when fed
to them. The question has been asked me,
will not the mulberry trees prosper well
planted by the side of ditches? The ans-
wer is yes, but the acid juicy elements ab-
sorbed by the roots, will kill the worms if
it ascends up into the leaves and they are
used in their unripe condition. Experience
and experiments have too often satisfied
many that unripe fruit is unhealthy both
for men women and children, and very of-
ten when indulged in produces summer
complaints; in like manner will unripe mul-
berry leaves effect the worms. Mr. Hoag,
of California, states that "the trees should
not be irrigated within three weeks of
feeding time." The unripe leaf feeding
will never be a success to any silk raiser.
The dry bench land, or land with a dry bot-
tom or sub-soil, where the water can be
turned off at will is the best. It is well to
propagate the mulberry from cuttings.
With good seed and proper management,
from 30,000 to 50,000 trees may be raised
from one lb. of mulberry seed, the seed
should be planted the same as lettuce, on-
ions or cabbage seed for depth of soil, in a
sandy loam that will not bake on the top,
and become hard, it should be kept care-
fully moist until the seed germinates; it
should not be planted until the warm weath-
er comes, about the middle of April, or la-
ter, if the weather is not warm, the cold
will injure the young plants.
I am satisfied that this is a good climate,
with good care and management, for silk
culture. How much silk is annually work-
ed into silk goods and finery; the following
will give some idea:—See Departments re-
ports for 1870 pages, 238-9. In the North-
ern States silk is manufactured into dress
goods, ribbons, velvets, and trimmings; the
amount according to statements in com-
mercial papers being variously estimated at
$10,000,000 to 20,000,000 worth annually.
We have found it difficult to obtain relia-
ble information, and cannot vouch for the

[Column 3]
correctness of the following affirmations and
figures, but present for what they are worth,
statements apparently reliable. Boston
reports 50 silk factories, mainly engaged in
manufacture of velvets; New York, 50, and
the business is carried on extensively in
Schenectady, Troy, Yonkers and at Oneida,
by the Oneida Community who commenced
late in 1866, manufacturing nearly $25,000
worth in 1867, and now employ 130 female
operatives in their factories. A considera-
ble business is done at Mansfield, Hatfield
and Manchester in Connecticut. A com-
pany in Manchester is said to fabricate
yearly 60,000 pounds of thrown silk, 60,000
pounds of patent spun, 100,000 pieces of
belt ribbon, 600,000 yards of wide goods,
consisting of dress silks, gros-grains, pop-
lins, foulards, and pongees; employing 1,-
000 operatives. The capital invested in
Masachuseetts, New York and Connecticut
is 5,000,000. Philadelphia has thirty fac-
tories, with a capital of $1,500,000. Patter-
son and New Jersey has fifteen factories;
one corporation manufactures every month
3,000 pounds of silk thread, 4,000 gross of
silk braids, 600 gross of hat bands, 350 yards
of serge, and employs 300 operatives,
mostly children. Another makes 70,000
yards of dress trimmings monthly. The
aggregate number of persons employed in
the factories at Patterson is 3,500, and there
are 70,000 spindles. The raw silk used by
these companies is imported from China
and Japan free of duty, but first passes
through the English market where the pri-
ces are fixed."
	The silk raising commenced in China, and
has spread through many countries, and
now Utah has a chance with others. Mr.
Hoag of California says he raised $2,000
worth of silk from one acre of trees. If
$550 worth can be raised from one acre,
President Young's statement will be cor-
rect.	There is a great amount of information
on the subject of silk raising which can not
be communicated in a short letter to the
press, but will have to be proven by expe-
rience.
	What will become of the rising genera-
tion of this country if industries are not
prepared for them?. Mr. Peter A. Dron-
bay of Pine Canyon has connection with
French mulberry seed raisers, and can act
as agent to import all the seed needed; if
arrangements are made with him. The
late Mr. Bertrand wrote much on the silk
business, it remains for others to carry it
out in practice. I have written this arti-
cle for those who want information, hoping
they will be benefitted by it. To export
our silk is unwise, it can be manufactured
at home, and will be a source of profit and
will result in much good to the community.
				JAMES AND ANN STEEL.

	P. S. The Jaredites cultivated silk on
this Continent after they left the Tower of
Babel—See Book of Mormon old edition,
page 537.


HOW much is there in one minute, when
we reflect that one minute extends over the
whole world?
	PAY little attention to those philosophers
who tell us that we should completely con-
trol all our passions—never to be elated at
success or depressed at sorrow. "They talk
like angels but act like men."
	A LITTLE boy, gazing upon an old picture
of his mother taken in a low dress, re-
marked: "Mamma, you was mos' ready for
bed when dat picter was tooken."


177		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MANTI SANPETE CO., UTAH,
						April 3rd, 1876.

EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The sisters of these parts, despite their appar-
ent silence, are not altogether dormant as far as
their duties and privileges as mothers and sisters
in Israel are concerned. We hold our regular
monthly meetings under the presidency of Mrs.
Rebecca Wareham, to whose able management to-
gether, with the good advice of our esteemed bish-
op, Bro. John B. Maiben, much of the success
that, with God's blessing, we have been able to
achieve are due. In these meetings we seek to
carry out, to the best of our ability, the primary
object as originally contemplated, [-]iz., to devise
ways and means for the relief of the suffering, and
amelioration of the condition of the poor of Zion.
Besides these we have our work meetings, dona-
tion committees, etc., which all contribute to the
object in view.
	Mainly in order to extend our facilities to afford
the needed assistance to the poor, the sisters of our
society have for some time had under contempla-
tion, and have lately determined on opening a So-
ciety store, where many articles which the society
produces, but not immediately needed by the con-
suming poor, can be converted into such other
needed commodities as are not at present within
our reach to bestow. To this end we have sub-
scribed among ourselves nearly two hundred dol-
lars, with which we intend to start on a small scale,
hoping and expecting that the institution will, with
God's blessing, increase and be the means of ex-
tending the usefulness of our Society.
	In connection with this I must not forget to
mention that our young sisters have their retrench-
ment Society, under the Presidency of Miss Han-
nah Billings. Considerable interest is manifested
by them in this direction, and we hope and pray
that they may accomplish much good to themselves
and the community.
	Speaking of Retrenchment reminds me of an
editorial I read in one of the late "Exponents," in
which you animadvert severely and deservedly on
the "prevailing fashions and customs of society,"
but seem to take the ground that the opposite sex
is solely responsible for the present corruption, dis-
honesty and vice existing in high places, as you
speak only of the wines, cigars, horses, &c., of
the men, whereas I should also like to have some
mention made of the silks, satins, pearls and dia-
monds of the women. When I read such descrip-
tions of toilet as have recently appeared in our
"Dailies," toilets in which a woman's jewels alone
amount to competent fortunes, and in comparison
with which all your male appointments of cigars,
wines, etc., dwindle into utter insignificance, I am
forced to regard women—with their inordinaie de-
sires to outshine each other in the richness of their
dress and ornaments, and the splendor and brillian-
cy of their entertainments, dinner parties, balls,
etc., thereby entailing upon their husbands ex-
penses requiring princely fortunes to bear up [-]nder
without transgressing the strict bounds of honor
and honesty—as bearing a great share of the re-
sponsibility for the present existing state of things.
	I deeply sympathize with our sisters in the East
and elsewhere in their efforts to emancipate our
sex from the inferior condition and place they have
hitherto politically occupied, but excuse me if I
make the assertion that reform is needed elsewhere
first. Let them first accomplish something in sim-
plicity of dress and style. As for jewels, let them
remember and pattern after the "Mother of the
Gracchi."
	Yes, though I do claim for woman a political
as well as social equality with man, I also hold
that Home is especially her kingdom, and here
she has full scope to mold both the men and wo-
men of the future; to make, or mar our statesmen
and leaders of politics, as well as our leaders of
fashion and society.
	Let them commence at home then where their
influence should be and always can be supreme.

[Column 2]
Let them improve the opportunities they have
first to their full extent and, as sure as eternal
justice exists, their other aspirations will in due
time find their fulfilment and all their noble de-
sires be accomplished.
	I thank God that the work of reform has already
commenced in this Territory; it was high time.
Already the same vicious tastes have made inroads
upon us, and the pernicious example of Babylon
has led astray some of our daughters and brought
grief into some of our families—but let us not be
weary in well doing, and faint not.
	May the work, so nobly begun, spread from
hence over these United States—over the world.
May the Spirit of God accompany the efforts of all
who work in righteousness, is the prayer of your
Sister in the Covenant.
		WILHELMINA CHRISTAFFERSON.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"SAMBO, did you ever see the Cats kill
mountains?" "No, but I've seen 'em kill
mice."
	A PARISIAN definition of a beautiful wo-
man—The paradise of the eye, and the pur-
gatory of the purse.
	MRS. Partington wants to know what
kind of drums co-numdrums are. She
thinks these are somewhat hard to beat.


THE FINE ARTS.

 The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pat at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE.
Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Now Receiving at
TEASDEL'S,
The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
 Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
 Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Fo[---] I
  doors below Walker House, and examine our
   goods,we guarantee satisfaction, and will
    take pleasure in making to order, such
     brushes as we have not on hand.
				Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

 LITTLE & ROUNDY,
	Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE
		23, MAIN STREET,

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
		AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James. Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
 Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons.  Flowers in endless variety.

 Ladies attending Conference should [-]all and seal her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.			17, East Temple street.
TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TO THE LADIES!

TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just recieved a large stock of SPRING GOODS of-
all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and, a full stock
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we 
are selling very cheap.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substautia
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLES AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
