VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1875.			No. 8.


FRIENDSHIP.

O life is beautiful, and fair, and sweet,
	With all its golden wealth of love and hope,
Bright, dreamy fancies, castles incomplete
	Fill up the vacant avenues and scope.

But while we plod along, from day to day,
	What is it cheers and gladdens most the heart?
Not love—the changeful queen from sad to gay,
	Hope, Faith and Trust each, comfort may impart,

But Friendship, which the test of truth has tried,
	Lifts us from darkness into regions fair,
And will with sorrow or with joy abide,
	A gem of gems, exquisite rich and rare.

Let poets sing in praises all divine,
	Choosing among the gifts that God has given,
The one most precious, cheering, or sublime,
	To help poor mortals in the path to heaven,

I will suggest that FRIENDSHIP be the theme,
	Highest and worthiest of the poet's fire:
'Tis guiltless of deceit, or selfish scheme,
	And will true sympathy of soul inspire.

Linking together the divinest part,
	Of man or woman, in affection true,
'Twill elevate and purify the heart,
	Imparting strength, to bear life's journey through.

S. L. City, Sept. 13th, 1875.			EMILE.


[Column 1]
	A LESSON FOR YOUNG WIVES.
	A woman something over thirty years of
age, with faded blue eyes wearing a melan-
choly expression, soft, beautiful hair which
showed signs of sad neglect, and a care-
worn face—sat in, or rather on, a wooden
bottomed chair with no back, in a low,
dark, cheerless room which stands in the
outskirts of one of our cities. At least it
did stand there two years ago, but may
have since been removed.
	"I have been too short-sighted," she was
saying, "too reserved, too fearful of meet-
ing with ridicule, too much concerned about
—Oh! dear! When I think how foolish I 
have been! And yet, from the first, I de-
sired with my whole heart to be all that my
husband could wish."
	The newly married younger sister, to
whom these remarks were addressed, stood
close beside the speaker, with one hand
resting upon her shoulder, the other stray-
ing caressingly over the disheveled hair.
She looked down into the weary, sunken
eyes in tender sympathy and said, after a
moments, pause:
	"Why should you reproach yourself? I
don't believe that any one in this world
would have done better than you have, un-
der the same circumstances. Your husband
has been so quick tempered, so ready to
find fault, to see all your imperfections and
overlook all your efforts to please him, so
inconsiderate—"
	"But let me tell you," interrupted the
first speaker, "that he has not been alone to
blame. I can see now, instances wherein I
might have gained respect and influence
with him, had I not lacked confidence in
his affections for me, and more in my own
ability to awaken within him the love for
which I pined. I think the disappointment
in our married life has been mutual. He
hoped to find in me all the qualities his
aspiring fancy had grouped together in
forming a model wife. And when he
found them not, his disappointment was so
great that he broke forth into a storm of
[Column 2]
wrath so violent it damped all my energy
and dwarfed all my ambition. The first
out-burst was so fierce and so unexpected
that it crushed me entirely. I never had
strength to rise above it, so his disappoint-
ments have never ceased and the storm has
never cleared away. Had I looked up from
under the clouds, aroused myself, shaken off
the gloom and met him sometimes with
sunshine in my face, instead of a down cast
look which told him I had not forgotten,
but anticipated another gush, the clouds
might not have gathered so often, or so black,
might sometimes have passed over without
bursting, and things might have been dif-
ferent. But it is too late now. Nothing
that I could do would inspire him to look
upon me as anything but a weak-minded,
spiritless creature without a spark of true
sentiment or brilliancy.
	"Once when I was very sick he came and
enquired after me with more feeling than
usual, spake almost tenderly and told me
that he had twice absented himself from
the house that day, to pray in secret for my
recovery.  Had I reached up my arms to
clasp his neck, thanked him and whispered
'God bless you, dear one, I do not wish to
leave you now,' it would have been befitting
the occasion and the relationship we held
toward each other; and I do not think he
would have spurned me then. But I merely
acknowledged that I heard him, by a faint
murmur, and turned languidly away. If
his heart was touched and softened toward
me, I took no advantage of the fact, but let
it pass without notice.
	"Again, one lovely autumn evening,
when all nature seemed to teem with happi-
ness, the air was filled with sweet, unwrit-
ten music, and flowers opened to pour forth
delight; I was feeling—half unconsciously
—a serene and heavenly peace, as I reclined
on a broad bench which stood without the
door. A hand was laid very gently upon my
shoulder, and my husband actually smiled
on me as he took in the sense of the sur-
rounding scene, and said in a voice uncom-
monly courteous, 'A penny for your
thoughts.'
	"Now that would have been a splendid
opening for a lively and inspiring conversa-
tion; for a woman with any animation about
her. But instead of seizing the golden op-
portunity, and endeavoring to make an im-
pression upon the man to whom I was mar-
ried, but whose heart I had never won, I
carelessly responded that I was not think-
ing of anything in particular, and there the
matter ended. My husband turned away
listlessly, thinking less perhaps of my collo-
quial capabilities than ever.
	"So you see, sister, where I have made
mistakes, and where, by a little comprehen-
sive thought and the use of my own dor-
mant powers I might have rendered happier
two lives. You must look farther. You
will never have just the same experience
that I have had, but the idea with which I
would impress you is, to make the most of
everything that will aid in making life plea-
sant, cheery and agreeable. And to let
everything of an unkindly nature pass as
lightly and with as little notice as possible."
	The elder sister ceased speaking, and the
[Column 3]
younger one promised to do her best to profit
by what she had heard.
	Had this sketch been a fanciful one, it 
should have been more elegantly worked
up, and finished in more refined style and 
beautiful colors—of course. But as it is a
plain, simple truth, please, dear young la-
dies, accept it for what it is worth. And if
the EXPONENT will allow me space, I will
follow in another number with A CAUTION
TO YOUNG HUSBANDS.
							MABEL.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"A MOCK Trial,,' a fine burlesque, was
performed at the Centennial at Norton
Mass, by the young ladies of class "75" and
a few of the under graduates of Wheaton
Female Seminary.  It was carried out with
appropriate dignity, and each part well
sustained by the juror, witness, crier, clerk,
judge, or lawyer as the case might be, by
the young ladies. The scene was very sug-
gestive of what woman may be, at some
future time, in the Court Room.
	THE "WOMAN'S Journal" says women are
filling into telegraph offices, post offices, etc.,
in New York; in fact, doing duty in the de-
partment over which Gov. Jewell presides,
and meeting with commendation. The
manual labor is light, it only needs a clear
head and orderly ways and both these
woman has at command.  The Journal
thinks the objection to employing women
because of sex is antiquated, and that it
cannot be revived. Employers are gener-
ally arriving at the rational conclusion that
when work has to be performed and woman
can do it as efficiently as man they will give
her the preference.  This growing apprecia-
tion of woman's work is certainly gratify-
ing to all who have her interests at heart.
	CHANGES ARE continually taking place in
governments, and in those who administer
them, and gradually the prejudices and radi-
cal opinions of men give way under the
prevailing influences of society and custom.
Not many years ago there were no Jews
among the leaders of the people in Europe.
How is it now? "A Jew leads the popular
movement in German Parliament." In
England Jews sit in Parliament and on the
Bench; whereas half a century ago they
could not even arrive at full citizenship.
They have full liberty of the press as writ-
ers and thinkers.  In the great city of
Rome, where once Jews were only allowed
to dwell near the Tiber by gracious permis-
sion, now a Jew wields civic authority over
that very city. Spain, which was so bitter
and cruel in her persecutions of that class,
has enacted a constitution that "at least re-
stores Jewish Worship at Madrid."


A BOY'S ENTERPRISE.—A boy was around
one of the hotels yesterday to get a job of
blacking boots, when a guest asked him:
	"Sonny, did you hear that the world was
coming to an end to-morrow?"
	"Great snakes! No!" exclaimed the lad,
instantly becoming excited; "where can a
feller buy some tickets?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
			R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Aug. 28th, 1875, was one of more than or-
dinary interest, as among the speakers was
a lady, Mrs. Kimball, who had come to hear
and satisfy herself concerning the reports
she had heard of this people. She expressed
her feelings to the congregation, and her
surprise to hear and see what proved to her
they had been so fearfully misrepresented.
She gave some excellent advice to the
young ladies, warning them against asso-
ciating with strangers to whom they might
be introduced, as many of the outside world
who were here in the midst of this people,
were men of no principle; men who would
not be admitted into the society of ladies
where their character was known. She is a
lady of very fine appearance and superior
attainments, has traveled and seen much of
the world, and is well posted concerning the
state of modern society. Her counsel was
earnest, she evidently felt impressed that it
was essential.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke a few words,
which were full of power and rich with
wisdom.
		NEPHI CITY, Sept. 1st, 1875.
	Meeting of the Relief Society held June
30th, 1875. Miss E. R. Snow and compan-
ions being present a meeting was appoint-
ed at 7 p. m. the same day for the purpose
of organizing a "Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Association." Miss Matilda E.
Picton was appointed president, Miss Mary
A. Parks, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McLean, Mrs.
Emma Bryan, Miss Mary Udall, Miss Mary
Hoyt, and Miss Mary E. Harley were cho-
sen as counselors. Mrs. Roxy L. Black-
burn Secretary, Miss Lois L. Foot assistant
Secretary; Mrs. Hannah Grover Superin-
tendant; Mrs. Ann M. McLean assistant
Supt.
	Sisters Snow, Horne and Howard, each
spoke very encouragingly to the young, ex-
horted us to live our religion, attend to our
prayers and keep the "words of wisdom,"
spoke a great deal concerning home manu-
facture also of extravagance in dress. We
were highly pleased with their visit, and
think their excellent instruction will prove
beneficial. Our Society at present numbers
one hundred and forty-five. We are striv-
ing to put down round dancing, but we
meet with a great deal of opposition, but
hope with the help of God to carry out
the resolutions we have formed.
	Resolution 1st. We will carry out the ex-
cellent instructions of those who organized
us, to the best of our ability and sustain our
president, also the Bishop, and the authori-
ties of the church, by our works as well as
our faith and prayers.
	2nd. We will attend our meetings also
the Sabbath meetings and school as often as
circumstances will permit.
	3rd. We will encourage and sustain Home
Manufacture, be plain and neat in our dress, 
dispensing with all superfluous trimmings.
	4th. We will abandon the reading of nov-
els and all light literature, and improve our
minds by reading the church books, news-
papers and all good books that will cultivate
the mind and improve our manners.
	5th. We will not speak disrespectful of any
one, and will no longer indulge in the un-
healthy practice of round dancing.
	6th. We will not use tea and coffee nor
any strong or injurious drinks but keep the
words of wisdom that we may receive the
blessings that are promised to the faithful.
	7th. We will not speak lightly of the

[Column 2]
sacred words and ordinances of God, but
reverence His holy name and strive to do
His will.
	8th. We will retrench from the use of
bad language, also from excessive or loud
laughter, as it is not considered good man-
ners, and is not approved of by our heavenly
Father.
	We wish your paper to increase in circu-
lation as we consider it the best paper print-
ed and think no family should be without it. 
				Yours Respectfully, 
			ROXY L. BLACKBURN, Secy. 

				LEVAN. Sept. 3rd, 1875. 
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	June the 29th, Sisters Snow, Horne,
Howard and Barney paid a visit to this
place and held meeting, gave some very ex-
cellent instructions in regard to the duties
of the sisters of the Society and as wives
and mothers in the kingdom of God.
Showed the necessity of our becoming a
self-sustaining people; said the sisters could
do much in bringing things about; spoke of
retrenchment and urged the sisters to live
their religion, and spoke on many impor-
tant subjects which caused a renewal of the
Spirit of God amongst the people. Since
that time our Society meetings have been
better attended and a union increasing
among us. We have not made any very
great progress in establishing industries of
home manufacture, circumstances have not
been very favorable with us, the grasshop-
pers having taken the crops every year, but
this year we have raised quite good crops,
and we hope to do better in the future as a
Society. Many thanks to Sister Eliza R.
Snow and the other sisters; may they live
long to assist the Prophet in bringing about
the purposes of God.
		NANCY HARTLEY, President,
		ALICE TUNBRIDGE, Secretary.

At a meeting of the ladies of Brighton
Ward, Thursday, Sept. 2nd, 1875, an organ-
ization of the Brighton Ward Relief Socie-
ty was effected. Much valuable instruction
and good counsel was given by Sister Eliza
R. Snow and Bishop Raleigh.
	As officers of the Society were chosen:
Sister Mary Ann Hagan, President; Sisters
Hannah Hanson and Ottilie Schoenfeeld,
Counselors; Sister Agnes Jones, Secretary;
Sister Sophia Lane, Assistant Secretary; Sis-
ter Charlotte A. Peck, Treasurer.
	All the officers were voted in unani-
mously. 
		FREDERICK SCHOENFELD, Secretary. 

			MANTI, Sept. 5th, 1875. 
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Knowing you to be interested in the wel-
fare of the Relief Societies throughout the
Territory, perhaps a word in relation to the
progress of ours may not be unacceptable.
We are doing reasonably well at present.
We have an efficient corpse of officers and a
good spirit prevails in our meetings. Our
books show quite a fair record of our finan-
cial success for the half year ending with
July, considering the difficulties we have
had to encounter. We have collected in
that time, cash to the amount of $140, also
other articles amounting to $18,50, beside
caring for the poor and needy in our midst.
We have been visited at different times dur-
ing the summer by sisters from the City,
and have received much excellent instruc-
tion by which we feel greatly encouraged. 
The EXPONENT is ever a welcome visitor

[Column 3]
among us. I will close with best wishes for
your continued success and prosperity. 
				Respectfully, 
					HANNAH BILLINGS, 
						Secretary.


SALT LAKE CITY, Aug. 24th, 1875.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been so much interested in our
meetings and Sunday schools lately, that I 
really want to say something to my young
friends about them.
	Boys and girls, I do not believe that you
have all got as good fathers and mothers as
mine. I am sure you cannot have, or some
of you would not do as I see you. My par-
ents teach me that to keep the Sabbath day
holy, as the Lord has commanded us to do,
means not to play nor work on that day; but
to prepare our food with as little labor as
possible, and to go to the house of the Lord
to pray and worship in union, with the good
people who gather there, and then to rest at
home and read good books and think about
God and His wisdom and kindness.
	Now I know some of you laugh and talk
about picnics and parties, and your pretty
dresses and all such things in Sunday school;
and I presume you do the same in meeting
if you go there.  And you play and romp at
home and at your neighbors, and laugh and
talk loud on Sunday, for I hear you. All
this is wicked and I wish not one of you
would ever do so any more.
	Perhaps you will think, "what right has a 
little girl only ten years old to talk to us of 
our faults? What does she know?" I can
tell you, I know of these things because my
father and mother have told me, not be-
cause I am smarter or better than you, or
half so smart as some of you. But dear
friends, smartness will take none of us to
Heaven, except we use our knowledge for
good.
					LITTLE SISTER.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	KATE Harrington, one of the poetical
contributors to the "Woman's Journal," is
about to publish her poems in book form.
Her real name is Mrs, R. S. Pollard; she
resides in Keokuk, Iowa.
	MRS. Batemen, manager of the Lyceum
Theatre, London, has the exclusive right to
perform Mr. Tennyson's drama during five
years, both in England and America; pay-
ing the author a stipulated sum per night.
	MISS Ella Dietz is giving readings in
England, from all the most popular poets;
she is commended highly by the press there.
She is also taking the leading part in a
comedy taken from the French and adapted
by herself. The piece is interspersed with
songs, which she herself has set to music.
She must certainly be a lady of uncommon
genius as well as superior culture and attain-
ments.
	AT the commencement, in Cazenovia,
New York, of an old Methodist School which
has just celebrated its semi-Centennial An-
niversary, Miss Jerusha Loomis took the
prize of scholarship of one hundred dollars;
and the four scholars next in rank were
girls. This is noticeable in a school where
the majority of pupils are boys.


WE are usually capable of greater things
than we perform; we are sent into the
world with bills of credit and seldom draw
to their full extent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FAREWELL,

TO SISTER R. M. CARRINGTON, ON HER
		DEPARTURE FOR EUROPE.
	[The following lines were inscribed as a tribute from the
Relief Society of the Seventeenth Ward at the presenta-
tion of a silver cup, at a Surprise Party given for Mrs.
Carrington.]
		Farewell, dear sister, but ere thou leav'st us,
			We would take thy parting hand,
		And wish thee health, and joy, and pleasure,
			In that far off, distant land.

		We have known thee many seasons,
			Many years have proved thy worth;
		And in faithful bonds of friendship
			May our days be passed on earth.

		As Friendship's offering we bring,
			The cup you now behold,
		And hope that all thy future life,
			May be bright silver, lined with gold.

		Farewell! and may the God of Heaven,
			Shield and save thee from all harm,
		And safely bring thee back to Zion,
			By his mighty, out-stretched arm.
									MRS. G. A. ALDER.
S. L. City, Aug. 25th, 1875.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A DISCOURSE DELIVERED
	BY ELDER J. F. WELLS IN THE THIR-
	TEENTH WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS, Aug.
	19. 1875.
	In announcing the object of this meeting
I will say, the general object is, to inaugu-
rate a series of such meetings among the
young people of this city, while the partic-
ular object is, to effect the organization of
the young men of the 13th Ward in a MU-
TUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. This
is being done at the suggestion, and by the
authority of President Young.
	In connection with a number of other
young men, we have met together this
evening to organize. We feel indebted to
the sisters for the full attendance we have
here to-night. Sister Snow and those asso-
ciated with her have organized the young
ladies, and their labors have been crowned
with success. By meeting together in an
organized capacity they have been protect-
ed from many temptations and snares of
the enemies with which they were sur-
rounded. The only way that we can accept
the doctrine, and follow the teachings of
the divines of the various religious denom-
inations, who are seeking to lead the youth
of this Territory out from their darkness
and delusion, as they think, is by breaking
the fifth commandment, by ignoring the
faith that our parents have struggled so
hard to maintain and inculcate in the hearts
of their children.
	Now I have a mission given by the Presi-
dent to organize the young men, and we in-
tend to visit every ward in this city and ac-
complish the object of our mission. We ex-
pect to organize here to-night with as many
or more than this church was organized
with in the beginning. We need the culti-
vation of the heart as well as the mind, how
are any of us to know by the gift of the
Holy Ghost and the spirit of revelation, that
this Gospel for which our parents sacrificed
and suffered so much, is the revealed will of
God to us as well as to them, if we do not
know these principles our parents have
taught us are of God? It is not only our
privilege but it is our duty to know them
upon the same principle that Peter knew
that Jesus was the Christ the Son of the
living God. Do we remember the fifth
commandment? "Honor thy father and thy
mother, that thy days may be long upon the
land the Lord thy God giveth thee." Do
we speak lightly of the things of God that
[Column 2]
our parents have taught us, which were sa-
cred, more sacred and dear to them than their
lives, which have been proven to us by the
sacrifices they have made? How many of
us are willing to sacrifice as they have done
for those principles that are calculated to
save and exalt us with them in the king-
dom of our Father and God? Who has re-
vealed them? If we are disobedient to our
parents and treat lightly the principles they
have labored so faithfully to maintain, are
we not guilty of breaking the fifth com-
mandment that I referred to? How many
of you my young brethren realize the
responsibility of seeking unto God to
know for yourselves that what your
parents have taught you is of God?
Do you realize that you are surrounded with
the enemies of God, the hireling priests
who seek to ensnare you and lead you from
the counsels of your parents? They would
destroy our parents if God would suffer
them to do so; this is their object and miss-
ion here, to overthrow the Kingdom of God
if possible, and they expect to accomplish
it by the influence they exert over the youth
of this people. They are not our friends,
neither are they the friends of God, their
motives are false, and their doctrines are as
false as hell; they seek to destroy the priest-
hood and lead the heirs of the priesthood
down to perdition, and there is no person
who has received the light of the Holy
Ghost that can believe their doctrines.
Their only alternative is infidelity. This is
our fate my brethren if we suffer ourselves
to be led from the counsels of our parents,
and lose the light of the Holy Spirit, we are
infidels to God. But if we are obedient
we have a right to the Holy Ghost which
has been conferred upon us, and it will
teach us our duty, and by the exercise of
that gift, we will know truth from error, and
light from darkness. A German author
said, "Give me the education of the child-
ren when young and the kingdom is mine."
Now this is what our enemies know and
they seek to establish their seminaries of
learning in our midst as well as their church-
es, desiring to educate the children of the
Latter-day Saints, confessing that the aged
are out of their reach; but let them have
the children to educate and they will ac-
complish the overthrow of the kingdom of
God. Now we can see the necessity of be-
ing organized and living our religion. My
parents have taught me the truth and so
have yours, and no tongue can express the
gratitude we owe to them for their faith-
fulness. It is my desire to honor and de-
fend the principles they have taught me;
for I know they have done all in their pow-
er to educate and prepare me for a life of
usefulness. Now I have explained the ob-
ject of our meeting together this evening,
to the best of my ability, and I pray God to
bless our efforts and crown them with suc-
cess. I will give way for others, praying
God to bless you.
	Brother Atwood spoke for a short time
expressing his joy and gratitude, saying for
this he had prayed, and would rather a son
of his felt as Bro. Wells did, than to have
a million of dollars.
		     Reported by
					WILMIRTH EAST.


"Now, George, you must divide the cake
honorably with your brother Charles."
"What is honorably, mother?" "It means
that you must give him the largest piece."
"Then, mother, I'd rather Charley should
divide it.


CENSURE.
	"For everything contains within itself,
	The seeds and sources of its own corruption;
	The cankering rust corrodes the brightest steel;
	The moth frets out the garment, and the worm
	Eats its slow way into the solid oak."
	The great and good have written and
sought to teach (by precept at least) that to
excel in conversation, to be really entertain-
ing, one should beware of censuring others,
or casting ill-timed or ungenerous reflec-
tions.
	This very prevalent  injurious
habit is, or seems to be incident to all
classes of society, and none are so fortunate
as to wholly escape criticism.
	It will inevitably bring its own reward,
or more properly, punishment, upon all who
indulge in it, or encourage its growth or en-
trance into the sanctuary of their hearts.
The faults and weaknesses of others become
like our very breath, continually before our
eyes, and instead of making allowances, or
exercising charity, we are prone to ridicule
and censure those whom we should sustain
by our prayers, our kindness and our sympa-
thies.
	It is indeed strange (yet no more strange
than true) that the greater part of social
conversation is made up of fault-finding and
slander; remarks derogatory to the charac-
ter of the absent; there are a few, perhaps,
who are unconsciously led to indulge in this
fearful practice through the influence of ill-
chosen associates.  But there are others to
whom the most interesting subjects are void
of interest, their tastes in conversation have
become so vitiated, unless bitterness and
sarcasm are the leading topics, or at least
spice up the conversation.
	Occasionally we meet with persons so in-
nocent in themselves, that no amount of
this sort of example effects them; such as-
sociates are the jewels of society, but they
are like "angel's visits—few and far be
tween."
	When we do meet such persons we dis-
cern quickly their superiority, and are
eager to accept them into our social circle,
and lay claim to their friendship.
	You will certainly all agree with me in
saying, there are few persons who do not
regard a man or woman of this last type of
character as truly noble, and worthy the es-
teem and good will of all, and ardently
admired by all intelligent and refined peo-
ple.
	It should be within the power of every
young person to make and keep a resolu-
tion, whether directly or indirectly uncom-
plimentary to the society of their compan-
ions; and we may, by endeavoring to cor-
rect our own feelings, benefit those in our
immediate circle, and such an influence
would heighten the tone and elevate the
sentiments of all with whom we associate.
							Hettie.


LITTLE THINGS.
	Little words are the sweetest to hear; lit-
tle charities fly furthest and stay longest on
the wing; little flakes are the stillest; little
hearts the fondest, and little farms the best
tilled. Little books are the most read, and
little songs the dearest loved. And when
Nature would make anything especially rare
and beautiful, she makes it little—little
pearls, little diamonds, little dews. Agar's
is a model prayer, yet it is but a little one,
and the burden of the petition for but little.
The sermon on the mount is little, but the
last dedication discourse was an hour. Life
is made up of littles; death is what remains
of them all. Day is made up of little beams
and night is glorious with little stars.


60			﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
CORNELIA [-] HORNE, Business Manager

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 15, 1875.


SALT LAKE CITY, 8th Sept., 1875.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In your issue of Sept. first, I notice an arti-
cle written by Miss E. R. Snow, entitled "Mor-
tal and Immortal Elements of the Human
