VOL. 4. 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1875.					NO. 3.﻿


[Column 1]
﻿		NOTES AND NEWS.

	MARRY for love, young man, but remem-
ber that  is as easy to love a girl whose pa
has a hundred thousand in the bank as one
whose old man sits up behind a pair of
mules and yells, "Whoa! you Pete, or I'll
take your ear off!"
	THE PRINCE of Wales on his visit to In-
dia, will be accompanied by four representa-
tives, of London Journals. Dr. Russell for
the Times, Mr. Forbes for the News, Mr.
Henty for the Standard; and Mr. Edwin
Arnold for the Telegraph.
	IN WISCONSIN a new law has gone into ef-
fect, providing that every woman over 21
years of age, residing in the district where
certain duties are to be performed, shall be
considered eligible for the following offices:
director, treasurer, clerk of school districts,
director and secretary of town boards, un-
der the township system of school govern-
ment. Members of a board of education in
cities and county superintendents of schools.
	A JUST and sensible scale of salaries has
been adopted by the Board of Education, of
Nashville, Tennessee. They have decided
to pay each teacher for the actual work per-
formed, without distinction in regard to
sex. When directors and law-givers in
general, see fit to lay down the rules on such
equitable terms, women will have less occa-
sion to clamor for their rights than they
now have, and will probably talk less, and
be less talked about.
	IT IS stated now by the Eastern papers,
that the direct cause of the destructive fire
at Holyoke was the use of trimmings etc.
about the altar; also the entire building was
sheathed with pine instead of plaster. The
coronor's verdict condemns those who had
the construction of the interior of the build-
ing, they not having provided sufficiently
for egress therefrom. Already eighty have
died and there are more who are not expected
to survive the effects of that most distressing
catastropher.
	A BOOK recently published by the Rev.
Dr. Jessup, who was seventeen years a
missionary in Syria, gives one some ideas
concerning the people and customs of that
Eastern land. A large part of them speak
the Arabic language, and are devoted follow-
ers of Mohammed. The women among
them are looked upon as something very in-
ferior, and when a baby girl is born, there
is mourning, whereas, at the birth of a boy
there is rejoicing. A Mohammedan Mufti,
in reply to Dr. Jessup suggesting girls being
taught, said, "Teach a girl to read and
write! Why she will write letters, sir, yes,
actually write letters! The thing is not to
be thought of for a moment." There is still
work to do for those who have the means
and ability in elevating the women of that
far-famed land, where our blessed Savior
lived and taught the principles of divine
truth, where He was scourged and beaten,
and at last crucified.
	A WOMAN PREACHING IN ENGLAND.—
	John bull says that another clergyman's
relative has taken to preaching. "Miss
Laura Addiscott, who delivered the ad-
dresses at Deptford on Sunday week, is 

[Column 2]
youngest daughter of Mr. J. L. Addiscott,
and neice of the late Rev. H. Addiscott, of
St. Paul's, Taunton. She is of middle
height, and apparently eighteen years of
age. She conducted the services without
any aid from others. She gave out hymns,
prayed with great fervor, and read the
Scriptures admirably. In the evening she
took her text from a portion of Mark vi.
The address lasted over three-quarters of
an hour. Her appeals were forcible, her il-
llstrations homely, usually the result of per-
sonal observation, and, as a rule, well chosen
and well applied."
	BUNKER HILL'S centennial exhibition
in Charleston, Mass. last month was evi-
dently a grand success. The procession was
ten miles long, consisting of nine divisions,
and was four hours and ten minutes in
passing any given point. The route was
six miles long, from Columbus Avenue to
Winthrop Square. The military is estima-
ted as numbering 11,500 persons and the
aggregate number of the procession 26,000.
Judge Devens delivered the oration, com-
mencing with a WELCOME etc. Next he
expatiated at some length upon the Harvard
men who were engaged there a hundred
years ago; afterwards of Prescott and War-
ren, next the constitution, the duty of con-
cilation, then Sumner, and in conclusion
exhorted the audience to imitate the exam-
ple of those who there fought for civil and
religious liberty, not like the Romans or Gre-
cians for love of war. In the evening an
informal reception was given by the Mass.
Commander of the Loyal Legion of the U.
S., to Gen. Sherman, at the Parker House,
which was largely attended by the most dis-
tinguished people, and was exceedingly
pleasant.


[Column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.
	The following items are from a letter
written to E. W. East, of this city, by El-
der George L. Farrell, who is at present in
the Nottingham conference. The letter
was dated May 25th, 1875.
	After giving some account of his health
and the labors of the brethren in that lo-
cality, and making some inquiries regard-
ing friends and affairs in Utah, he alludes
to othe arduous uphill business of doing any-
thing which has not got money in it, says
"that is about all the people are after, from
the king on  throne, to the merchant,
the minister, the laborer, and even the beg-
gar in the streets.
	"One of our sisters" he says "asked a fine
grown, strong, healthy-looking young wo-
man, who came to the door begging, if it
would not be far better for her to try and
get a situation at some gentleman's house,
than to go through the streets begging as
she was doing. The young girl replied; no
indeed it wouldn't! The sister inquired the
reason; her reply was, it wouldn't pay,
there wasn't money enough in it. The sis-
ter opened her eyes in astonishment, and
asked her if she could get more money by
begging. She answered, "Oh yes! it is a 
very poor street that I cannot get a penny
in and I can visit sixty streets per day and
at least that will clear me five shillings, and

[Column 2]
and I am my own mistress into the bargain. 
	In our travels among the people we find
when men have earned their money, (and
wages are higher now than they used to be)
they hand over a certain amount to their
wives, just as little as they can manage
things with, and the rest they spend in 
drinking, gambling etc. and in passing
through the streets every fourth man you
meet (and some women) have beer, gin
whiskey or rum depicted in bold characters
upon their countenances so plainly that the
passers by cannot help but look, and read;
and many exclaim what a shame for a gov-
ernment like Great Britain to license beer-
shops, gin-places etc. It is plan to be seen
by the world at large, as well as the saitns,
that these very excesses and abominations,
are going to prove the over-throw and de-
struction of the nations.
	I passed through a village of about two
thousand inhabitants the other day, and the
signs over the doors were so thick, that in
the Main Street alone I counted three hun-
dred and seventy-eight, ninety-seven of
which were licensed to sell intoxicating
drinks; which we find is over one-fourth of
the whole; and one would naturally wonder
where the money comes from to support
them all; but when we read the statistical
reports of some of the leading cities, the
problem is solved. I came across some
statistics (a short time ago) of London, ob-
tained from the reports of the London City
Mission, viz.; "It is the largest city in the
world, it covers nearly fifteen miles radius
of Charing Cross, nearly seven hundred
square miles and numbers four millions in-
habitants, including one hundred thousand
foreigners.
	London contains more Jews than the
whole of Palestine, more Roman Catholics
than Rome itself, more Irish than Dublin,
more Scotch than Edinburgh. The port of
London has every day in its waters a thou-
sand ships, and nineteen thousand sailors.
More than a hundred and twenty persons
are added to its pupulation daily, or forty
thousand yearly, a birth taking place every
five minutes, and a death every eight min-
utes. On the Police Register there are
names of a hundred and twenty thousand
habitual criminals, increasing by many
thousands every year.
	There are as many liquor-houses as would,
if their fronts were placed side by side,
reach from Charing Cross, to Portsmouth, a
distance of seventy-three miles. Thirty-
three thousand drunkards are annually
brought before its magistrates, besides the
many thousands of drunkards who are not
brought before  authorities. The shops
open on Sundays would form streets sixty
miles long, and it is estimated that there
are above a million people, who are practi-
cally heathen, wholly neglecting religion."
	Br. Farrell says these facts prove there is
an extensive field of labor, for a good sup-
ply of faithful elders to preach the Gospel
of Jesus Christ; and that the Elders who
are laboring with him in that vicinity, are
using every effort in their power to get the
brethren and sisters to break off from their
old habits of drinking beer, tea, coffee etc.,
and putting their means in the P. E. Fund,
instead; and all who are doing so, are pros-
pered beyond their anticipations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			THE WIFE'S APPEAL
	[A few weeks since the San Francisco "Chronicle" pub-
lished, as did the "Woman's Journal," the vigorous pro-
test of a lady against the advertisement of her husband
warning the public against her on his account. A sub-
scriber to the "Chronicle," Capt. W. Clifford, of 7th U.
S. Infantry, stationed at Camp Baker, Montana Terri-
tory, furnishes the following lines, which will strike a re-
	ponsive chord in many a heart.]
I married him full of bright, fond hopes—married him
		never to part;
I gave him all that a poor girl could, a pure and upright
		heart.
I loved him—ah, I loved him well, with a trusting hope
		and pride;
He was my all, my only one, and I asked no love beside.
And I clung to him for ten long years, followed through
		good and ill,
Though at times the way was thorny and was oftentimes
		up hill.
I worked in the fields through haying, when help was hard
		to obtain;
The money we saved by my toil belonged to our common
		gain.
I worked in the house, I milked the cows—no hired help
		had I—
And strove with a will to make a home. And when the
		night was nigh
I would put the house in order, and him with a smile
		would greet,
Though my hands might be hot and blistered, weary and
		sore my feet.
The children were always tidy, one after another they
		came,
And though they were his as much as mine, I had to beay
		the blame
For their little, heedless, childish faults; and though her
		loved them well,
'Twas "mamma" shielded them from the blows that
		sometimes harshly fell.
His work was done when evening came and shadows of
		twilight fell,
But mine was never ended, as many a mother can tell;
And though at times he was peevish, and flung at me bit-
		ter sneers,
"He loves at heart," I said, and this thought kept back
		the tears
That at times would rise unbidden, when a vision of
		childhood's home—
The dear, dear father and mother, each bush and moss-
		covered stone,—
Would, like a dream of the past, greet my worn and
		weary brain,
And make me long for mother, to be clasped in her arms
		again.
The dear, dear father and mother had been dead for many
		a year;
But they died content, for the man I loved had bade
		them never fear,—
That his love for me was pure and strong, would never
		die away,
He would always, always love me. Now hear what he
		has to say:
"NOTICE.—All persons are hereby warned—and heed this
		well they must—
My wife has gone from my bed and board, and her they
		cannot trust.
Any bills of her contracting I declare I will not pay:
She had no cause for leaving me, whatever she may say.
"She will come back again and work; I will make no ad-
		vance;
To get along in the world a woman has no chance.
She thinks she can live without me. Ha, ha! just wait—
		you'll see.
She'll quit that notion very soon, and humble enough
		she'll be;
For the property both worked for is now all mine by
		law;
And the children, too, I claim as mine,—my titles have
		no flaw,—
She can't get the upper hand of me, no matter how she
		may strive;
Just let her stay away from me and we'll see how she
		will thrive."
By the husband of my youth—my babes' father—this is
		said,
And my name is published far and wide (Oh, would that
		I were dead)
As one unworthy of the confidence of any living soul:
And he treats the matter lightly, as though it were some-
		thing droll.
When we married I had nothing, and he was about the
		same,
But all we have earned together since is held now in his
		name.
I am a woman lone and weak, health, strength and spirits
		gone;
[Column 2]
The laws are not made for women—God of justice, right
		this wrong!
He is a man of honest fame just in his daily life,
To all but his own children and his helpless hard-worked
		wife,—
These he rules with an iron rod, and there can be no ap-
		peal:
To others soft as velvet, to them he is hard as steel.
What right has he to brand me thus, impairing my fair
		fame?
He takes my work, and my darling ones,—must I loose
		my own good name?
The wealth we both have striven for is but half his own
		by right;
But until the laws are altered, 'tis on his side lies the
		might.
Life to me was full of promise of a future clear and
		bright;
Fearless I left the haven where my days had been so
		light.
But the end is dust and ashes, all the promise stained
		with blight,
Wasted years and bitter mem'ries—all my days are turn-
		ed to night.
Shall our wall still fall unheeded? Must our plea be still
		denied?
Mothers arouse! for your daughters lift their voices far
		and wide;
Every cherished, petted darling, fondly loves, nay idol-
		ized,
May feel the degradation of being thus advertized.
Fathers cannot live forever; mothers surely pass away,
Daughters, sisters, toil and suffer, broken hearted every
		day.
Fathers, brothers, change the statutes, to your own
		protection lend;
All we ask is what we work for. Give us thus; and make
		an end
Of laws unjust and cruel. To your love we thus ap-
		peal:
We, your daughters and your sisters, all may yet these
		sorrows feel.
Then before your loved ones leave you to trust another's
		care,
Right these shameful wrongs and evils—father's brother's
		hear our prayer!
	"Camp Baker, Montana."


[Column 1]
﻿			R.S. REPORTS.

	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Retrenchment Associations in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
June 12, 1875, was one calculated to im-
press all present with the importance of
moving forward in the cause of Home In-
dustries.  The speakers seemed endowed
with the spirit of this most esssntial under-
taking.
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne first arose and
in a very earnest manner expressed her
gratitude to God, that she was permitted to
live in this day, and share in all its bless-
ings and privileges.  She referred to the 
Saviour's parable of the net that was cast
into the sea which brought forth fish of all
kinds, and likewise to the parable of the
virgins, some of whom were asleep or un-
prepared, while others were ready to meet
any emergency.  She thought these say-
ings very applicable to this people; urged
the sisters to arouse themselves and exert all
their energies to assist in building up the
kingdom of God, that they might be among
the chosen.  Counselor Z. D. Young follow-
ed with remarks in the same channel, re-
ferred to the community being in a state of
bankruptcy, and that it was in consequence
of importing and not exporting; said it was
the same in other places upon the same
principles; spoke of young people being
flattered and led away by those who did
not believe in our faith, and the responsi-
bility of mothers.  She said it was once
asked of Joseph Smith how he governed
his people, he answered that he taught them
correct principles and they governed them-
selves.
	Counselors E.R. Snow said she felt to say
God bless all those who were starting out even
in a small way and endeavoring to build up

[Column 2]
Zion, but there were few comparatively who
were willing to advance in the undertaking
of being self-sustaining.  She remarked that 
Sister Horne, Sister Barney and herself
were appointed as a committee to obtain
means to purchase machinery to commence
weaving silk; but they had found very few
who were willing to donate unless there
was money in it; filthy lucre had been the
watchword in the world, and now it had be-
come the watchword among the Saints; if
this had not been the case there would have
been millions of mulberry cuttings put out
this spring, and the silk culture would have
been progressing.  She said it was just as a
brother had dreamed, the saints were asleep,
she was thankful there were a few who
came to that meeting, but how very few
compared to the large number of the
saints.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney told the people that
Br. Schettler had mulberry leaves for those
who wished them, and at Br. Piper's there
was a young man who could impart all nec-
essary instruction relative to silk culture.
She felt as Sister Snow did, that all who
would step forward in these branches of
Home Industries would prosper, Baby-
lon would surely fall and then we would be
compelled to resort to home-made, there-
fore it was necessary to make a commence-
ment.
	Br. Wm. Smith who was present ad-
dressed the sisters upon the subject of
mothers teaching true and correct princi-
ples to their children and the bearing it
would have upon them in after life, intro-
duced the subject of faith and of minister-
ing properly to to the sick, prayed God to
bless the sisters and assist them in their
laudable undertakings and expressed his
heart-felt gratitude for being permitted to
come and listen to their instructions.

			SMITHFIELD, May 31st, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Our annual meeting was held May 12th.
After singing and prayer, the Treasurers
report was presented, and accepted.
	President E. T. Morehead made remarks;
was satisfied with the labors of the Society;
exhorted those present to be faithful and to
use their influence for the building up of
Zion, that the people might become self-sus-
taining &c.  Forty-eight sisters were re-
ceived as members of the society.  Several
articles were read from the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. Coun. Adaline Barber made re-
marks; also Sisters Rebecca Roskelly, Jemi-
ma Garnet, and sister Hendrick, from
Richmond.  All spoke well, exhorting those
present to be faithful, to keep in mind their 
duties as Latter-day Saints, spoke of the
blessings in store for those who endure to
the end.
	President Mrs. Morehead then organized
a Retrenchment Association with Adaline
Barber as President.  There are eight Coun-
selors, eight teachers, a Sec'y and Treasur-
er in the organization. I presume their 
Secretary Sarah Ellen Longton, will send
you a report. 		JANE S. COLEMAN.

		PROVO CITY, June 15th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	One or two brief items, in relation to the
progress of the Relief Society of the Fourth
Ward of this city, I submit to you as proof
of the unfaltering labors of the sisters of
this ward.
	In May last, the Seventh Annual Meeting
of the Society was held in the Fourth Ward
School House.  Sister Ruae A. Holden pre-
siding; the meeting was addressed by Pres.
Holden for some time, in her usual pleas-


[Column 1]
﻿ant and instructive manner, closing by con-
gratulating the sisters for their liberality in
supplying the wants of the poor in the ward,
and leaving a respectable surplus in the
treasury. Several other sisters followed
with appropriate remarks in regard to the
duties and mission of the female members
of this Church.
	The Secretary read the annual report of
the finances, which showed that the Society
was in a prosperous condition.
	Considerable means has been contributed
for the purpose of erecting a suitable house
for holding meetings, to work in &c; which
will, we hope, be completed this season.
	We regret very much the absence of Sis-
ter L. W. Kimball, who is now living at
Santaquin. With an-earnest prayer for the
success of the EXPONENT, I remain,
					Respectfully,
		MARGARET A Cluff Secretary.

		WEST WEBER, May 26th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking that is quite time
some of the sisters should write and let
your readers know how we get along in
this part of the vineyard of the Lord. We
meet every four weeks; although our busi-
ness operations are small, we try to cucour-
age each other in the great and good work
we have engaged to assist in.  I feel that
we need a great deal of charity one to-
wards another, that the strong should bear
the infirmities of the weak and try to en-
courage them with kind and gentle words,
and by performing little acts of kindness to-
wards them.  Our president sister Mary
Douglas gives us good, motherly instruc-
tion from time to time.  Our young sis-
ters are getting along well.  And our Sun-
day school under the Superintendency of
Brother Nathan Hawkes, is flourishing
finely.  Your Sister, &c.
				FRANCES B. HART.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE COUNTY, May
						20th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We held our Monthly Meeting on Thurs-
day the 6th inst. Bishop Maughan with
several brethren and a great many sisters
were present.
	Bishop Maughan motioned that we adopt
President Young's counsel in regard to
round dancing; upon which a unanimous
vote was carried in favor of abandoning
them; also that the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety organize a Ladies Retrenchment As-
sociation which was also unanimous.  We
have commenced the summer season of
sewing meetings for the benefit of the
needy, in which some of the sisters take
great interest. On Saturday the 8th inst.,
the ladies made a picnic party out of respect
to our worthy Bishop who has been called
on a mission to Europe.  Two hundred and
sixty persons partook of the bounties of life
with which the tables were spread, and the
glasses of pure water added greatly to the
scene as tea and coffee were entirely dis-
pensed with.  The brass band kindly ren-
dered their services and enlivened all with
their cheering music.  After the tables
were cleared; short and appropriate ad-
dresses were delivered by some of the
brethren and sisters, with singing and dan-
cing.  All who were present enjoyed them-
selves and agreed it was the most pleasant
party we ever had in Wellsville.  We take
pleasure in forwarding subscriptions for
your valuable paper, and hope it will in-
crease as we feel it deserves to do.
			Respectfully,
					E. WHEATON, and
					M. PARKINSON.

[Column 2]
	BIG COTTONWOOD WARD, NEFF'S
				DISTRICT, June 17th, 1875
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Being a constant reader of your valuable
paper, and very much interested in the re-
ports from the many different societies, both
Relief and Retrenchment, I will venture
or presume to send you a brief re-
port of our Society.  It was organized
April 3rd, 1875 by Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
Zina D. Young, and Mrs. Presinda Kinball,
with the sanction of our Bishop W. E.
Young. Mrs. E. Boice was chosen Presi-
and six counselors were chosen by her and
unanimously voted in.
	It was considered best by our Bishop to
have Branch Societies as the Ward is very
extensive, the Counselors to preside in the
different districts where they reside, all to
meet monthly at the Ward House.
	At a meeting called by our President Mrs.
Boice, the Bishop being present, Mrs. Liz-
zie Neff was appointed to preside, Mrs. F.
M. Neff Secretary, and Mrs. B. M. Moses,
Treasurer.  We have most excellent meet-
ings, among our best speakers may be men-
tioned Mrs. E. Howard, Mrs. S. Harper,
Mrs. E. Boice, Mrs. H. Brinton  and many
others too numerous to mention, all seem
actuated by a good spirit and a desire for
the welfare of Zion, all see the necessity of
being awake, the great need of each one
taking part in the great work of Retrench-
ment, of refining and perfecting ourselves.
Now that we have an opportunity of repre-
senting ourselves through the medium of
your paper, it seems almost a work de-
manded of us to awake, arise! put on the ar-
mour of wisdom, and make bold to declare
to the world the truth of the mission of
Joseph Smith and his successor Brigham
Young; to advocate the principles of eter-
nal truth, as revealed by them for our salva-
tion and exaltation, the great and glorious
principles of Celestial Marriage, especially,
when we consider how much has been said
against this, and its practice in Utah; and
concerning the condition of woman here;
she is compared with a slave, or represented
to be in abject slavery.
	We know the time has come when wo-
man should express her views, advocate
true and correct principles, and stand up in
her own defense. It is much better to rep-
resent ourselves than to be represented by
others.  There is no place in the world that
woman has better opportunities to improve,
than in Utah; certainly she has perfect free-
dom of speech and press.
	Wishing you success, I am most respect-
fully yours,
			MRS. F.  NEFF, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TURKISH ECCENTRICITIES.—Everything
among the Turks is in contrast with our ex-
periences. The men wear the gay colors and
embroidery, and the women the close veil
and sombre hues. The women wear trou-
sers, and the men a nether garment very
much like a petticoat. Men and not wo-
men do all the work of the household. Mar-
riages are solemnized without the presence
of the parties most concerned, and before
they have even seen each other. A money
value is set upon the bride by her parents,
and agreed to by the parents of the bride-
groom, upon the payment of which the
husband has the right at any time after mar-
riage to return the wife to her friends.
Recently, a daughter of the Grand Vizier
was married and her money value was fixed
at the odd but quite reasonable figure, con-
sidering her social position, of five hundred
add one pounds sterling.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are now in Milan, it is said, 300
American girls studying with a view to the
operatic stage.
	THE total losses by fires in the United
States and Canada during May, were $9,
384,800; to the insurance companies $4,385,
100: by specials $5,455,100; and by specials
to insurance companies $2,600,800.
	THE quarterly returns of consular fees
show a marked decrease for the fiscal year.
Hitherto these fees have aggregated $600,
000 annually. The probable decline for this
fiscal year will be $100,000.
	THE 8th regiment United States cavalry,
which has been stationed in New Mexico
for the past four years, and the 9th cavalry,
which has been in Texas six or eight years,
are to relieve each other.
	GREAT preparations are making at Paris
for the Pilgrimage to Parao-le-Monial,
which begins on the 16th inst., in honor of
the anniversary of the pope’s session, and
it will, without doubt, be the largest for
many years. 
	THIRTY-seven hundred packages of
smuggled cigarettes were seized on the
steamer, City of Mexico, recently.
	THE Hartfords defeated the Yale college
nine at New Haven, June 15th, 12 to 2, and
the Philadelphias the St Louis Red Stockings
at St. Louis, 4 to 3. The New Havens are
reported to have disbanded. They forfeited
a game to the Hartfords at New Haven, re-
cently.
	A SETTLEMENT has been made with Mrs.
Sinclair, the divorced wife of the late Ed-
win Forest, who claimed arrears of ali-
mony and a dower interest in the real es-
tate at New York, Philadelphia and else-
where, and she receives $100,000—a $75,000
mortgage on the Mount St. Vincent prop-
erty at New York and $25,000 in cash.
	The commission to treat with the Sioux
Indians has been increased to eight mem-
bers, and now comprises Senator William
B. Allison of Iowa, Bishop E. R. Ames of
Maryland, ex-Congressman Frank W. Pal-
mer, editor of the Chicago Inter-Ocean,
Brig Gen. Alfred H. Terry, commanding in
Dakota, ex-Congressman Abram Comingo
of Misiouri, Rev. S. D. Henman of Dakota,
G. P. Beavers of Missouri and J. R. Obeine
of New York. Joe. W. Dwyer has been ap-
pointed secretary. The commission has re-
ceived a lot of instruction the substance
of which is that they are to try to make the
best bargain they can with the red-skins,
but the commissioner of Indian affairs—and
a great many other people—doubt whether
any satisfactory settlement can be made.
Each member while on duty gets $8 per
day and necessary expenses.


CORNELL UNIVERSITY is rapidly in-
creasing in fame. The Sage building will
be completed ready for opening in Septem-
ber.  It is 176 feet in length and 162 wide.
It will contain a museum, laboratory, with
several music and lecture rooms; and will
be lighted with gas and warmed by steam.

	AN ADDRESS was delivered to the cadets
at the close of the graduating exercises at
West Point Military Academy, by Secy.
Belknap, June 16th. Afterwards the cadets
were called up in order of merit, and re-
ceived their diploma from the Secretary of
War. Conclusion of the exercises was the
reading of the order of the day.  The grad-
uates numbered forty-three.  President
Young's son, Willard, stood fourth in order
of grade.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Adverting
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesday and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. JULY 1, 1875


[Column 1]
		SPLINTERS.
		  LOCAL.
	Sudden deaths in and about this city,
have marked the last two weeks; several
caused by accidents......A case of small-pox
in Ogden, was recently reported, a conduc-
tor on the C. P. Railroad being the sufferer.
Proper precautions were taken to prevent
the spread of the disease......Alta with its
few citizens have arranged a grand celebra-
tion for the Fourth of July, they are to have
a procession, displays, orations, poems etc.
......The Paulist Fathers Rev’s J. W. Dwy-
er, A. L. Rosecrans, A. B. Brady and W.
Elliot arrived here June 16th, and have
opened their mission in this city and Ophir
......New potatoes grown here were in mar-
ket before the middle of June......The
foundation of the new Co-operative Store is
being laid......Hon. J. R. Kelley, United
States Senator from Oregon, paid a visit to
this city, arriving here June 16th......Mrs.
Oates Comic Opera company filled a success-
ful engagement of three nights at the
Theatre June 17th, 18th, and 19th......An
epidemic sore throat is raging in Coalville,
in many cases proving fatal.....The Old
Deseret Bank building has been taken down
and the debris is being cleared prepara-
tory to commencing the new building......
Montgomery Queen's Circus and Menagerie,
gave afternoon and evening entertainments
on Washington Square, June 21, 22, and 23,
of course they drew large crowds and have
probably taken $10,000 profits......There is
to be a Grand Celebration Ball in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms July 5th.
Ogden will celebrate the Fourth of July on
Monday the fifth with a grand parade, part
of the Fire Brigade of this city have been
invited......Classes have been organized for
teaching the Spanish language in this city.
.....Work on the Seventh Ward Meeting
House is progressing......The Sunday School
examination at the Sixteenth Ward school-
house, Sunday morning June 20th, was very
creditable to pupils and teachers, and to the
Supt. Mr. H. Emery......An itinerant mu-
sician minus one leg, is entertaining our
citizens with the melody of a hand organ,
which he moves around by means of a
hand cart.
			GENERAL.
	Commencement at Swarthmore College
Pa., took place June 15th......A deputation
of ladies from Charlestown District, waited
on Mayor Cobb of Boston June 18th, re-
questing him to enforce the Sunday law of
closing drug stores, bake shops etc......Wm.
I. Bouditch’s valuable pamphlet upon "Tax-
ation of Women" in Mass., has already
reached its third edition......James Free-
man Clarke and his daughter Lillian, have
completed a volume of translations from
the German Poets, called the "Exotics"......
Madame Thiers at present occupies the pos-
ition in the world of fashion formerly held
by the Empress Eugenie......Hon. S. E.
Sowall has prepared for publication the re-
vised statutes of Mass. concerning the per-
sonal and property rights of wives, mothers
and widows......The New York State Wo-
man Suffrage Society held its final meeting
for the season in Brooklyn, the second week
in June......The annual meeting of the
“Progressive Friends" was held at Long-
wood, Chester County, Pa., June 10th, this
meeting invites to fellowship all who are in-
terested in the triumph of good over evil
......The Sorosis sisters of New York have
resolved not to patronize those stores and
shops where women are kept standing all
day......The American Association for the
[Column 2]
advancement of science will hold its annual
meeting in August, at Detroit, Mich......The
attempt made to impeach the President of
Mexico was a failure......The illustrations of
Shakespeare, for Cassell which are being
prepared by Gustave Dore, will bring him
it is said $50,000....The annual examina-
tion of the United States Naval Academy
at Annapolis, Md. began June 10th......Miss
Alice Singer, daughter of the sowing ma-
chine inventor was married in England to
Mr. La Grove of Brooklyn, Thursday June
11th, her dower is one million......It is fully
anticipated that Chicago will be decided up-
on as the location for the new mint, the
proximity of Lake Superior and the direct
communication with Cal. and Nevada mines
being in its favor, also the Swansea smelt-
ing works.....St. Louis has had a deluge of
rain, it is said 12 feet of water fell in 20
minutes; houses in various parts of the city
were rendered untenantable......The Presi-
dent visited the building and grounds for
the centennial exhibition at Philadelphia,
the 18th of June......Great fire at Grand
Rapids, Michigan, involving a loss of $150,-
000 June 19th......Deputy U. S. Marshals
Allen and Blood of Texas, have been in-
dicted and arrested for allowing McCartney
the counterfeiter to escape.
			PERSONAL.
	Prof. Joseph Winlock, a distinguished as-
tronomer and director of the observatory at
Cambridge, Mass., died very suddenly June
11th..... Hon. Thomas H. Selby Ex-Mayor
of San Francisco, died in that city Wednes-
day June 10th......The Rev. Horace James,
once Secretary of The American and For-
eign Christian Mission, died at Boylston,
Mass., June 9th......Arthur Dyer, a New
York Journalist aged 20, shot himself June
10th......Mr. Motley, the historian, has had
an attack of paralysis from which it is
feared he will never sufficiently recover to
resume his literary labors......Wm. B. Alli-
son, Senator from Iowa, has been appointed
chairman of the convention to negotiate
with the Sioux in relation to the Black
Hills......Mrs. John Wilcox died in San
Francisco Wednesday June 16th, from the
effects of chloroform administered previous
to having a surgical operation performed.
			FOREIGN.
	Very heavy failures of business houses in
London, are reported recently........Great
damage to property and loss of life by the
flood of the river Garonne in France......The
London Times report a rebellion in Burmah
A terrible earthquake at Circuita, S. A. is
said to have leveled every wall in the city,
and buried at once 8,000 people......There is a
current report that Garcia, who stole one of
Murillo’s pictures from the Seville Cathe-
dral, has been shot......The Levant Herald
speaks of a very deadly plague among the
Montific Arabs spreading over considerable
country......At Versailles, June, 26th, they
celebrated the anniversary of the death of
Gen. Hoche.....The Irish and American
riflemen have done some fine shooting at
Dollymount......The Grand Lodge of Mas-
ons gave a banquet to the visiting marks-
men, who were of the masonic order......In
France a bill has been recently published
regulating the newspaper press......Cholera
in India is much worse than usual this
year......Victor Hugo has realized by
his pen, during a celebrated literary ca-
reer, over $600,000......An illustrated life of
Bismarck, is about being published in Leif-
zig......The people of Greece are raising a
private subscription to erect a monu-
ment in honor of Lord Byron......Mr. Ev-
elyn Bellen, son of the late well known read-
[Column 3]
er, is about to make his debut as Hamlet,
on a London stage......There is some appre-
hension of a crisis at Athens, which is
feared might result in the abdication of
the King......At the opening of a hall in
London lately, by the Rev. Mr. Spurgeon,
12,000 Persons were present......Composer
Offenbach has recovered, and will shorly re-
sume his work......The American residents
of Berlin with members of the Diet, and
Professors of Berlin University gave a grand
dinner recently to Carl Schurz......Charles
De Remusat, the eminent French author
and politician is dead.....221,034 francs
were realized by the sale of Millet’s paint-
ings in Paris......Portugal has emancipated
her slaves......Coleman Hunt's painting,
the "Shadow Of Death" has been exhibited
in Manchester, and visited by 50,000 people
......Lord Derby was visited by an anti-sla-
very deputation June 2nd, he refused to
mediate between Spain and the insurgents
of Cuba......A law has been passed in Rome.
condemning to a months' imprisonment for
the first offense for blaspheming in the
streets, either God, Christ, the Virgin or the
Saints, and six months for the second of-
fense.


﻿A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS

	One of the greatest topics of discussion in
this age, is the proper and appropriate sphere
and position of woman; what she can do, and
ought to do, and is capable of doing. What
she is likely to become in the future from
mixing in the society of the opposite sex.
All these, and a thousand more questions
naturally arise as woman moves forward
in the scale of advancement, and the world be-
gins to understand more of her capabilities
for actual performance of work, which involves
talent, energy, enterprise and skill in execution.
	Colleges and Universities are now open to
women, the bar (the pulpit even) the lecture
hall, and many other  occupations for those
who have the faculty, the ability, and the mor-
al courage, to face opposition, to withstand
criticism and defy ridicule.
	That there is now (and every day widening)
a broader field of labor open to woman, a high-
er cultivation of her brain, a more just appre-
ciation of her merits and attainments, among
the best and truest of mankind, are facts which
have become visibly apparent. Unders[---]
are not meaning that this higher type of wo-
manhood is what pleases mens' fancy, because
“the embodiment of the masculine ideal" the
"womanly woman" which they hold forth for
our admiration, is all helplessness, dependence,
un-reliant, self-depreciating, "gushing, trans-
cendental," and superficial, a worshipper of
idols, and these idols themselves.
	And when they have given woman this


[Column 1]
standard of human perfection, with sweet
words of flattery and precious bits of advice,
what then? What indeed? After fostering
these weak, "childish sentimentalisms" after
rendering them too lovingly blind to be able to
guard themselves against "designing and con-
scienceless men," they are the very ones who
make them weep bitter tears of humiliation,
if not remorse.
	Is it not time that men gave woman encour-
agement in being practical, earnest, strong-
minded, self-reliant, original, (if you will,) that
she should feel she had an agency of her own,
independent of man? Will not women seek
more earnestly to strengthen their intellect
and correct their judgment when they can be
convinced there is a responsibility resting upon
them, which will effect not only themselves,
their children, and their immediate circle of
acquaintances, but more or less influence soci-
ety at large, the country in which they dwell,
the government which bears sway over all.
	While men are determined to keep women
subordinate, they will of course pamper these
"defects in her, because it is flattering to their
own self-love," and they cry out, "We want
women left us and not female men," and talk
and write, about making room for a "third
sex."
	Men who can see a lack in woman's education
are scarcely willing to concede their capabil-
ities, even when differently and more thorough-
ly educated. A very fine writer has said, in
answering common objections, that one of very
frequent recurrence is, that "Women would be-
come the rivals of their husbands, instead of
their companions." A writer in the "Wo-
man's Journal," commenting upon it says:
"Not until love was suppressed—its foundation
will be wider—it will be less blind, and pro-
duce fewer troubles." This writer says (speak-
ing, of course, of the age in which he lived
fifty years ago,) "In Paris the highest praise
for a marriageable girl  to say, she has great
sweetness of character and the disposition of a
lamb." And when he alludes to women be-
coming authors, he does not at all relish the
idea of living ones, but seems disposed to allow
the publication of their works after their death,
"like Madame De Stael." He goes on to say,
"to print anything for a woman under fifty is
to risk her fate in the most terrible of lotteries;
if she is so fortunate as to have a lover, she
will lose him to begin with."
	But this writer, much as he seems "to shrink
from the idea" of women authors "makes a
generous exception when a woman needs to
support her family by writing," and also ad-
mits the indirect influence of women on lit-
erature."
	The extracts made from this work by the
writer in the "Woman's Journal," are worthy
of being copied for the perusal of all intelligent
women; they afford subjects for serious reflec-
tion, and give us an idea of what a man of re-
finement and cultivated intellect considered
woman's highest prerogative, half a century
ago.
	One particular paragraph strikes us as being
something peculiarly calculated to inspire
women to adopt other and higher ideas, than
those of pandering to man's tastes and appe-
tites; it is this. "Most men have a period in
their career  when nothing seems impossible.
The ignorance of women spoils for the hu-
man race this magnificent opportunity; and
love, at the utmost, inspires a young man to
learn to ride well, or to make a judicious se-
lection of a tailor."
	In view of these facts and many others, does
it not behoove us to create for ourselves a

[Column 2]
higher standard, and having fixed upon it, be
firm in our resolves to attain whatever is possi-
ble, with the weapons we have to work with,
and the tide of opposition we must stem?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COlumn 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received interesting reports from
R. S. Societies in Provo, Payson and Virgin,
which we are compelled to lay over until our
next issue, for want of space.
	ANOTHER NEWSPAPER whose local editor is
a woman, is now being published in Ogden.
Success to all women journalists whose object
is to assist in the diffusion of light and knowl-
edge, and the spread of truth.
	AMONG THE many distinguished visitors who
have passed through our city within the last
month, was Lieut. Carl Eugene Graf Von
Bismarck Boxlen, nephew of the celebrated
statesman.
	WE LEARN by a late private letter from
Kanab, Kane Co., that the health of the peo-
ple in general, in that locality, is good. Crops
are promising fairly, but later this season than
usual; and the peaches were mostly killed by
recent frosts.
	THE RELIEF Society Fair at Bountiful,
Davis Co., opened for one week on Thursday,
June 24th. The object, to obtain means to
build a Society Hall. Committee of arrange-
ments were Mrs. E. Barlow, Mrs. L. Sessions,
Mrs. M. J. Crosby, and Mrs M. Carter. They
displayed excellent taste in the arrangement of
the affair, and deserve great credit for their en-
ergy and enterprise, in rendering it so attrac-
tive.
	LAST EVENING, June 30th, closed the en-
gagement of the celebrated English opera. It
has been a rich treat for the music loving peo-
ple of Salt Lake. The opening performance of
"Il Trovatore," Thursday June 24th was some-
thing unparalleled in this locality. The dis-
tinguished character of the piece itself, and
the superb voices of the ladies and gentlemen,
who sustained the most difficult parts, together
with the charming and full choruses were all
calculated to inspire an enthusiastic admira-
tion for the divine art of music, in the atten
tive and appreciative audience.
	A LETTER from Mrs. E. S. Barney of this
city, who is traveling in company with Sisters
E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, and E. Howard,
through some of the Southern settlements,
gives some  pleasing information concerning
their labors. The letter was dated June 22nd,
at Moroni, Sanpete Co., where they had held
a meeting with the sisters the previous even-
ing. President Young and several of the
brethren were present at the meeting. Pres.
Young spoke most encouragingly to the sisters,
and said he would appoint them a mission to
visit every settlement in Sanpete County and
see that they were properly organized and set
to work. A two days meeting was held by the
President and brethren in Fort Ephraim June
22nd, and 23rd.
	MR. AXTELL has scarcely had time allowed
him to form personal acquaintance with the
people and affairs of Utah, after being sent
here as governor, when, with no perceptible
excuse for change, he is removed to New
Mexico, and Judge G. W. Emery, of Tennessee,
is appointed to the governorship of this Terri-
tory in his stead. East and west, this move-
ment is looked upon with a degree of wonder
and commented upon by the press; various
opinions are advanced, but like other political
ransactions in relation to Utah. it is not

[Column 2]
clearly understood by any one. It is, how-
ever, certain that the people of Utah have
need to learn correct principles, and wisely
govern themselves, for they are obliged to take
their governors as they are sent, one after an-
other, whether they prove to be good, bad or
indifferent. Judge Emery, we believe, bears a
fair character, and we hope will prove a wise,
and judicious governor.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of a circular
from the Deseret University of 1874—5, from
Dr. J. R. Park, Principal. Many thanks for
the same. The Spring term of this institution
closed June 22nd. After the examining exer-
cises the teachers were presented by the pupils,
with some elegantly bound volumes of poems.
J. F. Wells made a few appropriate remarks
on the presentation, which received an affec-
tionate response from the principal, in behalf
of the recipients. The following term will
commence Aug. 23rd. The University Reading
Rooms will be closed during vacation. Ar-
rangements are being made for holding a Nor-
mal or Teachers Institute in this city under
the auspices of Supt. Riggs, to be conducted by
Dr. J. R. Park, whose success and experience
are so widely known. The design is to give to
the teachers of the territory, a thorough know-
ledge of the best methods of instruction. It is
expected to open Aug. 2nd, and close Aug. 
14th, 1875.
	THE AMATEUR exhibition of Miss M. E. Cook's
Graded School, which was under the direction
of her assistant Miss Emma Wells, was a
pleasant and interesting affair. The pro-
gramme contained a charming variety, music,
singing, recitations etc. One scene, from
Henry the IV was creditably rendered by the
young Misses. Charade, The Sleeping Beauty
in which the little ones did splendidly; Miss
Edith Clawson the young prince. Miss Mabel
Young the enchanted princess, Miss Lulu
Wells the Kings' jester; each displayed con-
siderable talent in a small way. Misses Lulu
and Callie Wells sang "Beautiful Gates Ajar,"
very sweetly. Miss Annie Wells read a vale-
dictory. Miss Belle Pugsley for, and in behalf
of the principal, presented some very fine
volumes of poems to the teachers, as a tes-
timony of her esteem and satisfaction. Miss
Cook has been untiring in her efforts to train
and instruct these young lady teachers and
bring them up to her standard of systematic
teaching. It is anticipated Miss Cook will go
East soon on a visit to her friends.
	IN OUR number of June 15th, several items
of Home Affairs were necessarially omitted,
which would not now possess the same amount
of interest; but the anniversary of the birthday
of our worthy President Brigham Young, cannot
fail to be pleasing to our readers, even though a
month has passed. Mrs. M. Dougal, and Mrs,
P. Beattie, (two of his married daughters) ar-
ranged a surprise party at the Lion House, in
honor of their father's seventy-fourth birthday
the first of June 1875. The programme was in
perfect taste, and the re-union was particularly
pleasant and satisfactory. A sumptuous and
elegant dinner was spread, for about one hun-
dred and fifty persons, all of them children,
grand children, and near relatives. A magnifi-
cent cake was presented to him on the occasion,
which they deferred cutting until the birth-
day of Mrs. M. A. Young, June 8th. We most
respectfully wish him many happy returns of
the day, with health and strength to enjoy the
blessings of life, and that he may live to see
his most sanguine hopes realized in the build-
ing up of the Kingdom of God upon the earth. 
	We would also mention here the anniversary
of the birthday of our Presiding Bishop, Edward
Hunter. June 22nd, he was eighty-two years
old. We congratulate him on reaching such a
venerable age, so hale and hearty, and wish
him as many more years of practical usefulness,
as his hospitable and generous nature could de-
sire.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION,

	TO MY MOTHER ON HER BIRTHDAY.

Dear Mother! hear the knell of time
Proclaim once more with measured chime
The day of joy, that gave thee birth
Among the noblest of the earth;
When prophets and inspired men
The Priesthood hold on earth again.
To Joseph Smith the angels brought
The self-same truths thy fathers sought.
To them this privilege was denied;
Without the Gospel they have died.
For thee has been reserved the right,
This precious boon of Gospel light,
Ordained before this world has sprung
From chaos, other worlds among,
A great and glorious work to do
For kindred dead. Oh then be true
To all the cov'nants thou hast made?
Thy life has been a mixture more of shade
Than sunshine. Yet for  everlasting truth
Of heaven, embraced by thee in youth,
The afflictions of the saints thou hast shar'd
Their sorrows thou hast seen and heard.
When driven forth by human fiends,
Among their number thou wert seen
Rejoicing in the God of love,
Who suffered this, His Saints to prove;
For He had said "they must be tried
As gold when seven times purified."
Husband and child were buried too,
In the fair city of Nauvoo;
And there their precious forms will lay,
Until the resurrection day
Brings forth the spirits of the just,
Those who in Christ have placed their trust.
When trying scenes thou wert passing through
Thy faith most firm, still stronger grew
That God in power and mercy would
These trials over-rule for good.
And O what blessings are in store
For thee with many thousands more
Of faithful saints who yet may stand
Upon Mount Zion's favored land.
No eye hath seen or mortal heard
What Jesus hath for those prepared,
Who've humbly sought His will to do
And kept the faith loyal and true.
May'st thou, dear Mother live to know
Many more pleasant years below.
May thy posterity increase
In goodness, purity and peace,
And in the great Millennial Morn
Radiant as stars thy crown adorn.
			YOUR LOVING DAUGHTER,
									  M. A. F.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Suet Pudding.—One cup suet, half-cup molass-
es, one and one-half cups sweet milk, three cups
flour, two spoons baking powder, one cup raisins,
one cup currants; butter the pan and steam two
and one-half hours.
	Chocolate Custard.—Prepare chocolate with a
quart of milk as you would for the beverage.
When this has boiled sufficiently to quite dissolve
the chocolate, add a tablespoonful of corn starch,
thinned with milk. Have beaten two eggs and a
cupful of sugar, into which gradually pour the
boiling chocolate. Return the whole to the fire,
and boil long enough to cook the eggs, say two
minutes, stirring constantly; don't forget a pinch
of salt.
	Preserving Gooseberries.—Among the many
ways I have tried, by way of experiment, to keep
gooseberries for winter use, I have finally decided
the following to be the best, surest, and least ex-
penditure of money and time:—Put one gallon of
dressed and washed berries in a porcelain kettle,
with just enough water to avoid burning until the
steam turns the top ones white, over which sprinkle
two thirds of a cup of brown sugar; cover close
and set over a brisk fire. As soon as they boil up
enough to slightly cook those on top and melt the
sugar, spread upon plates and set in the sun to
dry. (The juice must be turned on with the ber-
ries). Turn over with a knife; a few times dur-
ing the hottest part of the day, being careful not
to smash the berries. As soon as dry, heat in the
oven, to avoid the possibility of worms. When


nearly cool pack in stone jars, and if well covered
and tied they will keep for years.
	Southern Kansas, May, 1875.		A. H.
	Strawberry Shortcake.—With one quart of sift-
ed flour mix thoroughly two teaspoonfuls of
cream-tartar and one of soda, or the equivalent of
these in baking powder; rub in a bit of butter the
size of an egg, a little salt, and sweet milk enough
to form a soft dough; roll half an inch thick and
bake in a shallow pan 15 or 20 minutes; have
ready two quarts of fine fresh strawberries; split
the cake, place half the strawberries between and
cover thickly with white sugar and cream; put the
other half on the top and cover in the same way;
serve as soon as done.
	Stewed Water-Cresses.—Water-cresses are very
delicious stewed.  They should be placed in strong
salt and water to free them from insects, after
which they should be carefully picked over, the
water drained off, and then put into a stewpan with
a lump of butter and a little pepper and salt; a few
minutes will suffice to render the cress quite ten-
der.  A little vinegar may be added just before
serving, but this must be according to taste.
	To Prevent Lamp Chimneys from Cracking.—
Put the chimneys in a kettle of cold water and
heat gradually until the water boils, and let it cool
as gradually.  As the heat from the lamp flame be-
comes more and more intense the chimneys will
expand and contract without causing them to break
or crack.—Rural New Yorker.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	After Dinner naps.—Many persons are in the
habit of sleeping for half an hour immediately af-
ter dinner. Ten minutes' sleep before dinner is
worth more than an hour after. It rests and re-
freshes and prepares the system for vigorous diges-
tion. If sleep is taken after dinner, it should be
in a sitting posture, as the horizontal position is
unfavorable to healthful digestion. Let those who
need rest and sleep during the day take it before
dinner instead of after, and they will soon find
that they will feel better and that their digestion
will be improved thereby.
	Work as a Remedy.—Dr. Dio Lewis says: A
lady has just left our rooms whose case illustrates
an important idea. Ten years ago she was an in-
valid. Her malady was obstinate, and at the end
of a year's treatment a consultation resulted in the
opinion that her case was cerebro-spinal irritation,
from which she would probably never recover.
Six years ago her husband died. His estate
proved insolvent. The wife engaged in an active
occupation to support her three children. In a
year she was well, and has remained so ever since.
	There are two million dyspeptics in America.
Nine in ten of them could be cured by work,
	A wealthy clergyman from a neighboring State
assured us that he had spent eight years and thirty
thousand dollars in seeking a cure for his dyspep-
sia. He had traveled everywhere and consulted all
sorts of doctors. We are afraid he will never for-
give us for telling him that six month's hard work
would make a well man of him.
	How He Lived Ninety Years.—"With a good
appetite, three times a day, delicious sleep, not an
ache or pain in the whole body, the mind all the
time fully alive to what was going on in the
world, and all the time in good spirits." This was
said of the late ex-Governor Thorpe of New York.
It is added.
	He retired at nine, and rose at six, taking a nap
in the forenoon, and sometimes in the afternoon al-
so; breakfast at eight, dinner at one, and tea at
sundown. In suitable weather he spent a greater
part of the forenoon in his garden directing his
men, and assisting them, and for a short time in
the afternoon he was employed in the same way.
He used no spirituous liquors, but took claret wine
every day at dinner.

[Column 2]
	There are three things here noted, which if per-
sistently carried out in early life would do more
than all others towards giving all an enjoyable old
age, viz: regularity in eating, abundant sleep, and a
large daily exposure to out-door air.
	Regularity in eating, either two or three times a
day, with nothing whatever between meals, not an
atom of anything, would almost banish dyspepsia
in a single generation; as frequent eating is the
cause of it in almost all cases, especially if irregu-
lar and fast.
	Abundant sleep and rest from childhood make
nervous diseases a rarity; to insufficiency of regu-
lar sleep, and insufficiency of rest, may well be at-
tributed nine-tenths of all sudden deaths, and a
premature wearing out before the age of sixty
years. All hard workers, whether of body or
brain, ought to be in bed nine hours out of the
twenty-four, not that so much sleep is required,
but rest, after the sleep is over; every observant
reader knows how the system yearns for rest, after
a good sleep and it is a positive gain of energy
to indulge in it.
	Every hour that a man is out of doors is a pos-
itive gain of life, if not in a condition of chilliness,
because no in-door air is pure; but pure air is the
natural and essential food of the lungs, and the
purifier of the blood, the want of which purifica-
tion is the cause or attendant of every disease;
while every malady is alleviated or cured by an
exposure to out-door air. If city wives and daugh-
ters would average two or three hours every day in
active walking in the open air, it would largely
add to the exemption from debility, sickness and
disease, and would materially add to the domestic
enjoyment and the average duration of life.—Ru-
ral New Yorker.


EVE'S CURSE.

      IS IT NEVER TO BE REMOVED?

	Mrs. Emily B. Spencer, in her first letter
to the EXPONENT has said: "I think a great
deal of the strong minded principles of the
Gentiles are creeping in among us."
	And in the second letter, speaking of the
Woman's Rights movement in the States,
she says: "Some of their ideas are good,
some are simply ridiculous, and some are
pernicious and directly contrary to the gos-
pel. The idea of women educating them-
selves practically, and mentally, is excel-
lent; while to encourage woman in wearing
or imitating the dress of  man is ridiculous,
and the theory they uphold that woman is
equal with man, and has just as much of a
a right to govern man, as man has to gov-
ern woman, is wrong."
	Now, how are we to judge what portion of
the strong minded principles of the out side
world, Mrs. Spencer thinks is creeping in
among us? May we not hope, and have we
not occasion to believe that it must be the
one correct principle to which she alludes, a
higher type of education for woman than
she has been wont to consider necessary for
her to obtain? I have never known of
man's dress for woman, or anything approx-
imating thereso, having been advocated
among Latter-day Saints. Nor is it the
opinion of anyone believing the true Gos-
pel, so far as I am aware, that woman should
rule or govern man.
	But according to the teachings of our best
recognized authority, every good wife
should stand as a counselor to her husband;
not to direct, but to counsel in righteous-
ness.
	(Realizing the truth of those words of
the ancient prophet, that "in a multitude
of counselors there is safety," the above
theory, probably, is one reason why our
whole hearted Mormons are willing to ex-


ist in the midst of a multitude of wives.)
	Mrs. S. says:  "The Lord told woman in
the garden of Eden, her husband should
rule over her, and that, with the rest that
was told her, has descended to her daugh-
ters, and we are not exempt."
	All this is true enough, but was the sen-
tence never to be revoked? I have an idea
that the curse that was placed upon Eve by
a merciful and loving Father, was not de-
signed to stand unmitigated, unalterable for-
ever. And although Mrs. S. "feels no more
of the sun's rays now than years ago, no
more liberty, no more freedom," and ques-
tions "What liberty has burst upon us sud-
denly?" It appears to me very forcibly
and plainly, that since the Gospel light
beamed upon the world in this dispensa-
tion, one of the prime objects of those who
have received it in spirit and in truth, has
been the real elevation of woman, the cer-
tain placing of her in her proper sphere.
And is it not given to those who have re-
ceived the true light, to diffuse its genial
rays over the whole earth, that all who will
may learn the ways of the Lord, and all na-
tions be blest?
	What higher, purer, holier cause can we
ascribe to the bestowal by God and the ac-
ceptance of His people, of the revelation
concerning Celestial Marriage, than that the
condition of woman, as it was, might be
improved? Think of it.
	Do not the elders tell us now, that the
young ladies in our midst have power to do
what they cannot, with all their preaching,
teaching and exhorting, in the matter of
"putting down round dancing," leading the
young men to seek true culture, morality
and refinement? Our honored Prophet and
leader has himself said that "The Relief
Societies can take hold of the home indus-
tries and make co-operation a success; and
thus bring about the United Order. Does
that sound as though woman should be con-
sidered so very much inferior to man?
	I do not wish to be understood as one ad-
vocating woman's right to rule. But I
mean this, which was written years ago by
an older and wiser woman than myself:
	"I have apologies to offer here
	For Gentile ladies who disclaim their sphere/
	Having obtained enough of truthful light—
	To see life's strange perversion of the right;
	They seek with noble, yet misguided aim,
	Corruption and abuses to reclaim;
	But all their efforts to remove the curse
	Are only making matters worse and worse.
	They could as well unlock without a key,
	As change the tide of man's degeneracy;
	Without the holy priesthood, 'tis at most.
	Like reck'ning bills in absence of the host."
									Inez.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MODOC AT CHURCH.

	One tolerably good thing is reported of
that small section of the Modoc tribe now
on a tour throughout the country at the ex-
pense of and for the profit of two or three
white men.  One of these Indians recently
taught several small boys how to conduct
themselves in church.  The Indians, it
seems, took Lexington, Ky., in their tour
and chanced to be there on a Sunday, when
several of them attended the Baptist Church
to observe the white man's way of propitia-
ting the Great Spirit and smoothing the
way to the happy hunting-grounds. As a
matter of course where the Indians were
there were the small boys also, and a com-
pany of the youths managed to secure seats
directly in front of the noble red men where
curiosity could be thoroughly gratified.
When the sermon began the boys turned
round and stared at the Indians uninterupt-


edly, never flagging a bit in the gaze of
open-mouthed wonder. The Indian, as a
rule, is stoical, but he was not stoical enough
to endure the gimlet look of these boys,
which became, finally, unendurable.  One
of the Modocs, forced to action, leaned sud-
denly forward and seized a boy's head as
though he wanted a scalp, but he didn't
make any attempt to secure that trophy.
He simply twisted the boy's head around
until it looked in the direction of the min-
ister, and at the same time a significant ges-
ture to the other boys caused them to look
the same way.  Never did boys pay better
attention to a sermon than those of Lex-
ington during the remainder of the exercis-
es, and the Modoc demonstrated that he
had in him big material for a Sunday-
school superintendent.—"St. Louis Republi-
can."


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. Stanton gives some logical reasons
why women do not accomplish as much
work as men; in short she boldy asserts,
they are not dressed to work, but to kill.
	DONNA Maria, the wife of Don Alfonzo,
is described as being slim and fair-haired,
with lively, dark blue eyes; the reverse of
the Amazon she might be supposed to ap-
pear.
	IN Australia at the University of Mel-
bourne, ladies are admitted to pass the mat-
ricultural examination. Out of three hun-
dred candidates for admission fifty-seven
were ladies. This is a good recommenda-
tion for the women of that country.
	MISS Emily Faithful in speaking of so-
ciety and industry in Paris, says that a per-
fect equality exists between the sexes in 
business matters. Women keep hotels, fac-
tories, shops and are often the efficient busi-
ness partners of their husbands.
	QUEEN Victoria's fifty-sixth birthday
which was the first week in June was cele-
brated throughout England and the United
Kingdom, and by Englishmen generally in
the different countries where they were re-
siding. This amiable and excellent Queen
has reigned nearly thirty-eight years, being
a longer period than that of any other sov-
ereign in Europe.
	MADAME Bonaparte of whom we gave
our readers a brief sketch a short time since,
is attracting the attention of some of the
"literati" on account of her writings. Re-
cently she was offered $10,000 for her man-
uscript volumes, but the old lady refused to
sell them at any price. For forty years she
 has kept a diary constantly; it is supposed
she has written much of society, both in
Europe and America during these years,
which cannot fail to be entertaining, and re-
port says she is severe in sarcasm. It is
most probable her writings will be published
after her death.
	MISS Sarah Clarke, sister of James Free-
man Clarke who resides in Rome, is em-
ployed upon a series of sketches of the pla-
ces visited by Dante and mentioned in his
writings. She has visited in person all these
places; the work has occupied her for the
last four or five years, involoving a vast
amount of study, research and travel. The
work was ordered by Mrs. Mitchell of Mil-
waukee wife of the Congressman. An-
other copy of the same series is also
being made for Lady Ashburton, and the
intention is to have the designs etched so
as they can be engraved. Miss Clarke has
an artistic apartment overlooking the
grounds of the Barberini Palace.
[Column 2]
	MISS F. Mann, of Philadelphia, was one
of the victims of the fearful wreck of the
Schiller. She was returning to Germany to
pursue her art studies at Munich. She is
said to have possessed rare genius, and
would probably, have been most successful
as a portrait and historical painter; added to
this she was endowed with considerable
musical talent, and superior intelligence.
She was of an amiable and interesting char-
acter, qualified to adorn and benefit the cir-
cle in which she moved. She was only
nineteen years of age. Her death was truly
a sad bereavement and she will be most sin-
cerely mourned by all who had the pleasure
of knowing her.
	MRS. M. M. Elliot of Minneapolis, Minn.
delivered an original poem at the celebra-
tion of Decoration Day in that city. The
people of Minnesota seem to possess a liber-
al feeling for the rights of women, in se-
lecting one for the poet of the day. Her
eloquence and style, as well as the poem it-
self, appear to have been truly appreciated
by all present. This is something a little
out of the ordinary channel, and is another
proof of advancement of the cause of wo-
man.
	LADY Murchison, wife of the late Sir Rod-
erick I. Murchison was certainly a very su-
perior woman, and seemed to have exerted
an influence, which animated her husband
to successfully pursue those pursuits which
eventually brought him fame, title and mer-
ited distinction. At the time of their mar-
riage he was a Captain of dragoons, and had
seen some real service at the battle of Ve-
meira. After his marriage he sold his com-
mission, and thought of going into the
church, and taking a country parsonage; sim-
ply because he was fond of riding after the
hounds, a privilege allowed to the Vicar,
and his wife was fond of botany, gardening,
and ministering to the poor. But the wife
would not be content, her aspirations were
above cas socks, so she persuaded him to go
on a tour through Italy, Switzerland and
the Alps, where he found that he loved Art,
and that his sphere in life, was in the physi-
cal research and observations of nature. Af-
ter their return to England, they spent a
vast amount of time out of doors, she in
sketching and botanizing, while he accumu-
lated facts, examined into causes etc. He
afterwards became a celebrated geologist,
the rival of some of the most eminent men,
co-workers in this field of labor, and the
discover of the Silurian system.


Two young men out riding were passing
a farmhouse where a farmer was trying to 
harness an obstinate mule. "Won't he
darw?" said one of the men. "Of course,"
said the farmer, "he'll draw the attention of
every fool that passes this way." The young
men started along.
	Sidney Smith once said: 'I remember
once making a joke after a meeting of the
clergy in Yorkshire, where there was a Rev.
Mr. Buckle, who never spoke when I pro-
posed his health. I said he was a buckle
without a tongue. Most persons on hear-
ing it laughed, but my next neighbor sat
unmoved and sunk in thought. At last, a
quarter of an hour after we had all done, he
suddenly nudged me exclaiming, 'I see now
what you meant, Mr. Smith? You meant a 
joke!' 'Yes sir, I said, 'I believe I did.'
Upon which he began laughing so heartily
that I thought he would choke, and I was
obliged to pat him on the back.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	ABOUT LETTER WRITING.

		By Blanche Beechwood.

		"Full or have letters caused the writers,
		To curse the day they were inditers"
	Cautions against letter writing are in
order at the present time.  Editors, jour-
nalists and authors in general, all seem to
partake of the same spirit, and labor with a
zeal worthy the object, to impress upon the
minds of the people, that it is unwise to
put their private thoughts and feelings
upon paper, lest they should be, through
treachery, intrigue, or unwarrantable self-
ishness, (which will involve one's life even,
or more than that perhaps their good
name,) exposed to the idle criticisms, and
alas! too frequently the harsh censure also,
of a scandal-loving, misjudging community.
	Should that which was intended only for
the eyes of the dearest, truest friend, or
the devotedly attached lover, be held up to
the ridicule, irony and sarcasm of uninter-
ested and unauthorized judges?  What
terrible agony one must suffer to have their
heart's secrets blazoned forth, perchance
among persons destitute of that fine per-
ceptional sensibility which only those
can understand whose organizations are of
the finest order of spiritual element.
	"Where glow exalted sense and taste refined,
	There keener anguish rankles in the mind;
	There feeling is diffused through every part,
	Thrills in each nerve, and lives in all the heart..
	How utterly unable we are to judge one
another, none of us being constituted ex-
actly alike; how can we define each other's
sentiments truly, how discriminate fairly
and justly in those peculiarly nice points of
distinction which are determined by the
emotions agitating the human heart in its
variety of phases, or under, perhaps, excep-
tional circumstances?
	We are all of us created with distinct
forms, distinct minds, we all have a certain
individuality, and we may ourselves differ
in feeling, thought, sentiment, opinion, or
action, at different times and under other
influences.  It is certain we do not always
feel alike, then it follows conclusively we
cannot always act alike, talk alike, or write
alike.
	It is this very diversity of face, figure,
form, feature, or outline, and greatest of all,
variety of taste, feeling, sentiment, expres-
sion, and of mind itself, which makes life
beautiful, and gives grace and charm to the
human soul.
	Let us hope that this debasing element
which has crept into modern society, has
not altogether defiled the pure fountain of
confidence and integrity which exists be-
tween intelligent and noble-minded men
and women, but only some of its remote
branches. Certainly it is a pleasant thing
to speak or write frankly and confidentially
to those in whom we feel there is safety,
and who have souls great enough to sympa-
thize with us in life's ills; we may do this
innocently if received in the same spirit.
	The past furnishes us many instances of
letters of friendship, between persons of op-
posite sexes, which are rich with sentiment
and charming in style, from which no un-
happy conclusions were drawn, which have
come down to us as samples of purity of
thought, feeling and expression.  Are we
then in this enlightened age so much be-
hind in nobility of character as to lose
faith and trust in one another?


Flash youths—telegraph boys.


FLOWERS.

	The two impressions.—Great men leave
two impressions of themselves on their con-
temporaries—the one the result of their
public career, the other of their private life.
	KIND words are the bright flowers of
earthly existence; use them, and especially
around the fireside circle.  They are jew-
els beyond price, and powerful to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed-
down spirit glad.
	SELF-RESPECT is the noblest garment
with which a man may clothe himself—the
most elevating feeling with which the
mind can be inspired.  One of Pythagoras'
wisest maxims, in his golden verses, is that
which enjoins the pupil to reverence himself.
	SORROWS sober us and make the mind
genial.  In sorrow we love and trust our
friends more tenderly, and the dead be-
come dearer to us.  Just as the stars shine
out in the night, so there are blessed faces
that look at us in our grief, though before
their features were fading from our recol-
lection.
	THE man who is only honest when hon-
esty is the best policy is not really an hon-
est man.  Honesty is not swerving policy
but stable principle.  An honest man is
honest from his inmost soul, nor deigns to
stoop to aught that is mean, though great
results hang on the petty fraud.
	WHEN all is over, and our feet will run no
more, and our hands are helpless, and we
have scarcely words to murmur a last prayer,
then we shall see that instead of needing a
larger field, we have left untilled many cor-
ners of our acre—and that none of it is fit for
our Master's eye, were it not for the soften-
ing shadows of the cross.—EX.
	THE TRUE LIFE.—The mere lapse of
years is not life.  To eat and drink and
sleep; to be exposed to darkness and the
light; to pace around in the mill of habit,
and turn the wheel of wealth; to make rea-
son our book-keeper, and turn thought into
an implement of trade—that is not life. In
all this, but a poor fraction of the conscious-
ness of humanity is awakened; and the
sanctities still slumber which make it most
worth while to be.  Knowledge, truth, love,
beauty, goodness, faith, alone can give vi-
tality to the mechanism of existence; the
laugh of mirth that vibrates through the
heart, the tears that freshen the dry wastes
within, the music that brings childhood
back, the prayer that calls the future near,
the doubt which makes us meditate, the
death which startles us with mystery, the
hardship that forces us to struggle, the anx-
iety that ends in trust—are the true nour-
ishment of our natural being.—Martineau.


HEALTH AND FASHION.

	Not until we deal conscientiously with
nature as we do with tradesmen shall we, as
individuals, be entitled to rewards of merit.
We ask for a load of wood, pay the market
price for it, get the worth of our money,
and have the satisfaction of warmth from
the fire it makes. Suppose the dealer knew
we would not pay for it. He would not be
likely to give full measure or the best qual-
ity. The dainty bits of lace, jet ornaments
and plumes, rosebuds and velvets compos-
ing a hat, are very becoming to some faces.
The dressy hat has a price; it takes money
to pay for it. The little lady wishes to look
stylish, pays the price and is satisfied and
happy until the fashion changes. She de-
sires health and elasticity of step, buoyancy


of spirit. Could they be purchased, millions
of dollars would roll into the credit of bank
accounts. Alas, poor child of fashion! gold
cannot buy for you the dewy freshness of a
vigorous life. The sunshine and raindrops
are gifts. Roses in cheeks, cherries in col-
or of lips, come from within. The price is
service—and faithful service, too, under the
direction of  most generous and most ex-
acting physician—mother nature. Her re-
wards are sure, her punishment certain.
There can be no appeal to a highcr court—
no amendments to her divinely appointed
"constitution." Will you, dear reader, en-
ter a willing student? Are you willing to
measure your life by her rule and compass
and square? "No." Then there is little 
hope for you.—Ex.


EVERY DESCRIPTIONS
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOOD.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				20 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		Feathers, Wall Paper,
			AND
		BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.
			CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, witha  copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price $2.5	-	-	-	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of the President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4  -	-	  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sentin.
in all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk 
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Territory,
especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
