VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1875.	No. 11.﻿


For the EXPONENT.
		INDIAN SUMMER.

Fair Indian Summer, mellow, calm and sweet,
	Another of thy golden days is done;
In mystic silence glide thy viewless feet
	While sinks again to rest thy gorgeous sun.
The herds' faint lowing from the meadow dells
	Floats like an echo on the dreamy air,
The mellow tinkle of their distant bells
	Suggests faint music from Cathedrals fair.

The husbandman rejoices in the store
	Which he from bounteous Mother Earth hath won,
And smiling Plenty blesses o'er and o'er
	The sturdy toiler whom she calls her son.
My days drift by in idle dreaming spent,
	Unheeding daily duties left undone;
This halcyon season seems a riddle sent
	Which I all vainly waste my moments on.

The soft air whispers strange mysterious things
	Of Summer gone and Winter yet to come,
And other, deeper tones which strike the hidden strings
	Whence over my soul's saddest music rung.
I torture my dull senses to disclose
	The meaning of vague hints of pain and fear,
Like wild unrest behind this sweet repose,
	Or stormwinds closing in the smiling year.

Like sorrow come unbidden to the feast
	Where joy with all his chosen friends sits down—
Like blighting Hate from out the cold, gray east
	Where Love's warm sun before was smiling down—
As such do I distrust this meek repose,
	This languid grace, this hazy, golden glow,
False as the hollow truce when ruthless foes
	Pause but to strike a surer, deadlier blow,

Why must the sweetest dream but wake to fears?
	The fairest season usher storm and cold?
The brghtest hopes but end in grief and tears?
	The loveliest bud a cankerworm unfold?—
My heart grows faint, my eyes are dim with tears—
	My youth like some sad ghost before me stands—
For all the glorious hopes of those bright years
	She grasps but straws in eager, empty hands.

Life seems untrue to every promise given,
	And mocks ach lofty aim with cruel scorn!
Oh tell me! is there even truth in Heaven?
	And why, oh why! were poor frail mortals born?
My weak and wavering gaze now sadly roves
	To rest upon yon mountain's waving line—
Their calm, majestic grandeur of repose.
	Rebukes this childish restlessness of mine.

Their sentry pines each lofty summit crown,
	Their ripening woods and thickets redly gleam,
And from their fruitful chambers trickle down.
	To bless the vale, full many a sparkling stream.
The low, red light gilds every dome and swell,
	In tender shade the bosky hollows rest—
Oh! restful hills! teach me your lesson well—
	In blessing others we are doubly blest.

And Thou, whose just will hid from mortal sight
	I dared to weakly question even now,
Forgive! and lead my faltering steps aright;
	And, like Thy mountains, may I never bow
'Neath cloud or storm, but, steadfast and serene
	Through good and ill, still patiently await
Whatever in Thy wisdom Thou dost deem 
	Is for Thy loving child a fitting fate.
								LU DALTON.


For the EXPONENT.

A CAUTION TO YOUNG HUSBANDS.

	It appears strange perhaps, that in writ-
ing for a woman's paper I should choose such
a subject. But the truth is, I know several
young gentlemen who take great interest
in the EXPONENT and never fail to read it.
And of course there are many others with
whom I am not acquainted, who will be
more likely to notice the hints I propose to
offer, here, than if they found them else-
where. I do not suppose that in what I
have to say there will be anything new, or
that our intelligent young men do not al-
ready comprehend, if they have ever
thought upon the subject; but are not those
who seek to instruct obliged to repeat over
and over again the same lessons in order to
impress them upon the minds of the learn-
ers? Yes, and the same lesson must often 
be given in a variety of ways to be rendered
comprehensible to each member of the class.
	So I hope my humble effort may not be 
vain, but that what I write may prove, if
even in a single degree, beneficial to some
one. 	
	Young gentlemen then, whoever you are,
do not imagine you "know it all" when in-
deed you know so little; but be willing to be
advised, even by a woman.
	In choosing a life companion, do not al-
low yourself to be so romantic as to suppose
a girl who would consent to be your wife
can be all angelic and free from mortal 
foibles. If, however, you must indulge such
thoughts, that the momentary bliss exist-
ing during the time of engagement and the
"honeymoon" may really seem to embody
heavenly completeness, when you find out
your mistake, which you are sure to do
sooner or later, do not suffer yourself to be
so thoroughly disappointed as to loose the
proper respect for your wife that you are
morally bound to retain. Try to be consist-
ent. Do not consider that a woman should
be faultless. She is born like yourself with
weaknesses which must be overcome; and
you should graciously extend to her the
same charity you hope to receive.
	The folly of over-estimating woman's
worth is by no means so gross as that despi-
cable spleen which characterizes some little
minds--the idea that woman is so inferior
to man that she has no right to a voice nor
even  an opinion of her own. Don't set too
high a value on your own abilities young
man; and do not be so outrageously practi-
cal as to undertake life, married life, with-
out the essential stimulant--PURE TRUE
LOVE!
	I know a young man who, the second or
third morning after the nuptial ceremony
had taken place, opened conversation with
his hopeful young bride in the following
manner.
	"My idea is to begin married life in a
manner that can be sustained.
	"We will not have any "honey-moon,"
then we shall never have regrets over its
waning. I realize that we differ materi-
ally in our natures and also in our educa-
tions; but I think I shall be able to modify
you--that is, mold you over, and make of
you just what I want, in time. For the
present, I must do the best I can. It will be
your place simply to do as I tell you, so you
will have an easy enough time of it. I shall
myself unravel all the knotty questions and
direct how things shall be done.
	"I must now go away on business, shall
be back after awhile. You may clear off
the table and do up your work, and we will
resume this conversation at a future time,
as it is necessary that we come to a correct
understanding."
	Many will think that a man twenty years
old who could speak thus, was a fool; yet he
was not. On the contrary, he had many
fine traits of character, but he did know
how to make himself a good and agreeable
husband. The LOVE was wanting, on his 
side, altogether. And the young wife who
looked upon him with a sort of exaggerated
admiration, akin to that romantic love which
imagines its object faultless, was doomed to
severe disappointment.
	Remember that the most perfect under-
standings that can be arrived at before mar-
riage should be. No matter how tenderly a 
couple may be devoted to each other, a
broken engagement is far less deplorable
than an unhappy marriage.
	If you, young man, know of any pecu-
liarity in the character of the girl you
wish to marry, of which, as your wife you
would like her dispossessd, do not be so cow-
ardly as to forbear mentioning it until af-
ter marriage. Even at the risk of loosing
your chance of becoming a husband just 
when and where you would like, it is best
to talk frankly and feelingly upon all im-
portant subjects, and, as I said before, gain
as perfect an understanding of each others
disposition as possible.
	It is an excellent plan, one of mutual im-
provement, to agree beforehand, that what-
ever one notices of a disparaging nature in 
the other, shall be courteously brought in-
to consideration. Also that if one shall un-
wittingly touch the feelings of the other in
a painful manner, the case shall not be al-
lowed to slumber but be instantly made
known, that an explanation may be given.
Then, hold to these good resolutions, and it
is as easy to live in peace and have ever in-
creasing love with all its beautiful tenden-
cies to cheer life's pathway, as, on the other
hand, to be continually fault finding and at
variance.	
	There are very many important points to
be considered in connection with this
highly interesting subject, young married
life. To enter upon its course in the right
way is the great secret. Avoid the first
frown, the first impatient word, the first sel-
fish action; and there will follow no quarrels
and no heart-aches. There should be no
waning to the true "honey-moon;" it should
shine forever, and husbands and wives
should never cease to be lovers.
		MABEL.


BE OF GOOD CHEER.—A man who ac-
quires a habit of giving way to depression
is on the road to ruin.  When trouble comes
upon him, instead of rousing his energies
to combat it, he weakens, and his faculties
grow dull, and his judgment becomes ob-
scured and he sinks into the slough of de-
spair. And if anybody pulls him out by
main force and places him safe on solid
ground, he is pretty sure to waste the means
of help which have been given him. How
different it is with the man who takes a
cheery view of life even at its worst and fa-
ces every ill with unyielding pluck! He
may be swept away by an overwhelming
tide of misfortune, but he bravely struggles
for the shore, and is ever ready to make the
most of the help that may be given him.
A cheerful, hopeful, courageous disposition
is an invaluable trait of character, and
should be assiduously cultivated.


82									WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Oct.
16th, was very largely attended, and the 
utmost in erest manifested in the proceed-
ings of the meeting,  After the usual exer-
cises and reading of minutes from the diff-
erent secretaries; President Mrs. M. I. Horne
called upon Elder J. F. Wells to speak to 
the sisters.  He spoke approvingly of the 
efforts of the young ladies of the Retrench-
ment Societies, and he said he must ac-
knowledge that at present they were ahead
of the young men.
	Mr. E. W. Tullidge also made some re-
marks by invitation, in which he applauded
the sisters highly in their labors and enter-
prise for the good of humanity, and the cul-
tivation of all those higher faculties which
are most conducive to refinement and eleva-
tion of character.
			Santaquin Sept. 26, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
We held our seventh annual meeting of 
the Relief Society Sept. the second, on which
occasion we had a most happy time.  Visi-
tors were present from Payson and Goshen,
also some brethren from the north. Many
of the sisters talked of the goodness of God
and the blessings of the Gospel and how 
thankful they were that the time had come
when they could renew their covenants
with the Lord, and commence anew.  They
talked with a freedom that astonished the 
brethren.  Our Bishop is beloved by the 
people: he spoke of the importance of wo-
man's part in the Church of Jesus Christ,
exhorted them to go right to work and man-
ufacture their own hats and bonnets: hats,
caps, and gloves for the brethren, also cloth
slippers and shoes; but not neglect to culti-
vate the mind; told them to lead out in that 
gentleness of manner which characterize a
true Christian.
	Financially our Society is prospering.
Our President, for her zeal and faithfulness
in promoting the welfare of the Society and 
encouraging the sisters in the line of im-
provement, deserves a word of praise.
JULIA D. WILSON, Sec.
GOSHEN, Sept. 16th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
We as a settlement have been blessed
with good health this summer with the ex-
ception of the last two weeks, during which 
we have had considerable sickness, but
none fatal as yet.  I hope by the blessing of 
God the sick will soon recover.
	We have a Relief Society organized here,
and it is doing well for the size of the settle-
ment.  We hold two meetings each month,
and a good spirit generally prevails in them.
We have funds in the Provo Woolen Facto-
ry, and in the Goshen Co-operative Mercan-
tile Institution.  We have donated to the 
temples and to the P. E. F. Company, not 
forgetting the needy at home.
Please accept of my best wishes for your
temporal and spiritual welfare.  I remain
your affectionate sister in the New and Ever-
lasting Covenant,
MARY JOHNSON.
MORONI, SANPETE Co., Oct 6th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
Knowing you have a desire for the welfare
of the Daughters of Zion, I take the liberty
of writing a few lines to inform you that,
since our beloved Sister Snow and company
visited us we have increased in numbers.
She said that all virtuous women should be-
come members of the Relief Society.  I 
trust that the good counsel we received from
our sisters will make a lasting impression
upon our minds, that we may not be hear-
ers of their words alone but doers of it also.
It is only by doing the things that we are
commanded that we shall obtain a celestial
glory in the kingdom of God.  We feel to 
anticipate the time when we shall see a 
temple raised in Sanpete Co., that we may
go through that house and do our duty for 
the dead as well as the living, so that we
may become saviours on Mount Zion.
The sisters are united and we are striving
to do good in helping the missionaries, who 
have been called to go to the nations of the 
earth to preach the gospel, with means.
We organized a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association last June.  They have 
commenced braiding straw to make their 
own hats, and are willing to encourage
HOME MANUFACTURE.
Times are dull and money scarce, that has
been the cause of our not renewing our sub-
scription, but hope that we shall be able to 
continue to take your valuable paper.
JANE BAILEY, President.
CHRISTIANA CHRISTIANSON
SARAH HOLLY      Counselors.
ANNE DASTRUY, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THERE is to be a Masonic congress in
London, in 1877 in which all parts of the
world are to be represented.
	A VERY destructive fire in Virginia City,
Nevada, Tuesday, Oct. 26th, which de-
stroyed nearly all the business portions of
the city; it is said ten thousand people are
rendered homeless.
	BRET HART, the humorous poet and nov-
elist, has gone to New York with his family,
and taken up his abode for the Winter at
Fifth Avenue Hotel.
	ONE OF the products of California, that
will be on exhibition at the Centennial is a
section of one of the big trees of that state.
It was taken from a tree 373 feet high with
a diameter at the base of 26 feet, and is, ac-
cording to the yearly rings, 2,120 years
old.
	THE LADY who was the subject of Byron's
poem "Maid of Athens," according to a let-
ter from the United States Counsul agent,
published in the "Woman's Journal" of Oct.
16th, is still living at Athens, with her
daughter, who is said to be a lovely lady
of exquisite manners. It is said Lord By-
ron wrote that poem after the refusal of the
Lady's hand in marriage.
	A WOMAN'S Missionary meeting was con-
vened in St. Paul, Minnesota, Oct. 7th; re-
ports were given from different places of
their labors in the Missionary societies of
the West. During the meeting an inter-
esting paper entitled, "Do Foreign Missions
Pay?" was read by one of the ladies. The
women of the world are awakened to a reali-
zation of what they think duty, and are
desirous even to make sacrifices and prac-
tice self-denial for the sake of promulgating
those principles they believe to be true;
ought not the women of the Latter-day
Saints, who profess to know the truth by
testimony for themselves, to come forward
and show themselves valiant in laboring to
do good to their fellow beings?


HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASY.

	Regarding theories only as nicely poised
speculative principles—to be more admired
than practiced—we pass them lightly by,
and deal with the facts of commonplace
things of every day life, For the benefit
of the young housekeeper, just embarking
on this chequered voyage, we would re-
peat the few simple principles given to us
twenty-five years ago by an experienced,
practical friend, in favor of which we now
declare after so long a test. First, look with
care that nothing be wasted; second, a place
for each article, and always in its place.
This is easy even for those who occu-
py small houses. A few bags, each with
two eyelets, by which to hang against the
wall in some convenient place, will aflord
ample storage for a great number of articles.
One will contain the hosiery for a family;
another, the waste scraps, fit only for the
ragman; in another may be deposited in
neat rolls, the larger pieces for future need.
One should always be provided in the pan-
try for holding spare tea cloths; balls of
cotton, also, are quite safe in such a place.
Thirdly, see that everything is kept scrupu-
lously clean. Once a week the labors of the
laundry should embrace and cleanse each
solid garment or piece of cotton or linen,
no matter how small or unimportant it may
seem. Let no garment pass from the iron-
ing-board to its fixed deposit without being
in perfect readiness if called for at any mo-
ment. Especially is cleanliness desirable
in all culinary operations. First, in the
proper care of stove furniture, well washed
and rinsed, then dried and hung or placed
on shelves, then rinsed again with scalding
water before being used; this will insure
freedom from the least particle of impurity.
	The comfort and elegance of a meal con-
sists not so much in the elaborate display of
china, glass, and silver, or the great variety
of viands, as it does in simplicity and neat-
ness. A snowy, well-ironed tablecloth,
with bright service neatly arranged, and a
few well prepared dishes, chief among
which are the soft, fresh bread, and sweet
golden butter, from out a dairy kept sweet
be plenty of pure air, and whose pans are
regarded as carefully as though they were
china vases. With these few easy princi-
ples accepted as guides, many a gloomy
house would be converted into a cheerful,
smiling home. Many a poor man would
become wealthy. Comfort and plenty would
take the place of disquiet and want.
	In every well regulated home there are
seasons and hours for recreation; both for
body and mind. Rest consists not in the
entire cessation of labor but we find it
most and sweetest in the change from
drudgery to some lighter employment in
which the mind takes a pleasing interest;
something that calls into exercise the
pleasing emotions of our nature, from the
constant exercise of which we receive a
healthy vigor that laughs at nostrums. A
thrill of joy sends the blood through its
channels with an accelerated motion that
drives disease away. Hence, we find the
care of flowers of so great consequence, and
assign to them a place in every home.


WE have social strengths. Our affection
towards others creates a sort of vantage or
purchase which nothing will supply. I can
do that by another which I cannot do alone.
I can say to you what I cannot first say to
myself. Other men are lenses through
which we read our own mind.—Emerson.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"POST-MORTEM LOVE."

	BY MRS. HATTIE F. BELL

If you're ever going to love me,
	Love me now, while I can know
All the sweet and tender feelings
	Which from real affection flow.
Love me now, while I am living;
	Do not wait till I am gone,
And then chisel it in marble—
	Warm love-words on ice-cold stone.

If you've dear, sweet thoughts about me,
	Why not whisper them to me?
Don't you know t'would make me happy.
	And as glad as glad can be?
If you wait till I am sleeping
	Ne'er to waken here again,
There'll be walls of earth between us,
	And I couldn't hear you then.

If you knew some one was thirsting
	For a drop of water sweet,
Would you be so slow to bring it?
	Would you step with laggard feet?
There are tender hearts all 'round us,
	Who are thirsting for our love,
Shall we begrudge to them what Heaven
	Has kindly sent us from above?

I won't need your kind caresses
	When the grass grows o'er my face.
I won't crave your love and kisses
	In my last, low, resting-place.
So if you do love me any,
	If it's but a little bit,
I'd rather know it now, while I
	Can, living, own and treasure it.


[Column 1]
	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
						Sept. 12th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is an old saying, "Better late than
never," so I think in regard to writing an
article for your paper.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor to
our island home. It is sent to Sister Lam-
bert, through her mother I presume. She
is very kind to loan it to the rest of us, so
we all enjoy reading its contents.
	I am much pleased to learn of the great
interest which the women of Utah are
taking in promoting home industries, and
in many other ways assisting the brethren
in the great work of the last days.
	Woman was made to be a helpmeet for
man, not a ruler nor dictator. Every mar-
ried woman can do much in aiding her hus-
band in carrying out the principles of the
"United Order." Union of feelings and
interests must begin in families. If a man's
family is united with him in all things they
can accomplish much. From this nucleus
it extends to neighborhoods, then to wards,
cities, &c., until all are united as one.
	Last Sunday, the 5th inst., Prest. Alma L.
Smith, Brother and Sister Lambert and my-
self, met with the saints at Kahana, went
in the carriage, had a very pleasant ride.
Kahana is the land which was purchased by
the natives in June, 1874. It is situated
about eight miles south of Laie. They pay
$6,000 for it, have paid $3,000 and given a
mortgage on the place for the balance. They
seem to be united, and are doing well. We
held meeting with them, dedicated their
new meeting house, administered the Sacra-
ment, organized a branch of the Chruch,
appointed a President and counselors.
President Smith offered the dedicatory
prayer, which was very appropriate. After
which he delivered a very interesting dis-
course, which was listened to with marked
attention by the congregation. At noon we
partook of a native meal. The table was
spread in the meeting house. The meal
consisted of poi, fish, beef, pork and small
shell fish resembling snails. Our beverage
was water. The dinner was served in good
native style, and looked quite inviting.

[Column 2]
Our ride had given us an appetite, and, I
assure you, we did justice to our dinner.
	In the afternoon Bro. R. G. Lambert held
forth; his discourse was not lengthy, though
very good; several native elders also
preached. About 5 p. m. we left for home,
after a hearty shaking of hands with the
Saints of Kahana.
	About two weeks since, Prest. Smith was
in Honolulu. Having a little matter of
business with the king, he solicited an in-
terview, which was readily granted. His
Majesty received him at his palace, with
pleasure. They conversed familiarly on
many topics, Utah and her people among
the rest. His Majesty entertains a friendly
feeling towards our people. At the close of
the interview his Majesty spoke of making
a visit to Laie on business, and appointed
Friday the 17th inst. for his visit. He
comes as a private citizen, with one or two
other gentlemen. Will dine with us.
	I am getting on nicely with my school.
Have twenty pupils, who are very regular
in their attendance, and are interested in
their studies. Had a public examination
of my pupils last Friday the 10th inst. The
exercises passed off pleasantly. Have closed
my school until after Conference, realizing
that a little rest from school labors would be
beneficial to my health. Our Sunday School
is in good condition. The English lan-
guage is taught exclusively, all who attend
the school are much interested in learning
it. Many grown persons attend.
	Work on the plantation is progressing
well; a new crop of cane is being planted;
for some time past they have been busy
plowing, and are getting on well with it
from what I can learn.
	All is peace on Laie, the brethren and
sisters, both foreign and native, are feeling
well. We all enjoy the spirit of our mis-
sions, but at tines we feel a little lonesome,
our number being so small, only four of us.
Who would not be?
	We have meetings every Sunday at 10 a.
m. in the meeting house for the natives; at
2 p, m. our Sunday School meets, and at 7
p. m. we have a prayer meeting and sing-
ing for us foreigners; we meet alternately
at each others houses.
	Brother and Sister Woolley are on the
island of Kauai, about one hundred miles
from here. He went as a missionary to
preach to the people and learn the language;
she went for "an out," and we hear that
she is enjoying herself finely.
	Bros. S. P. Richards and B. Stringham
are on the island of Hawaii traveling and
preaching. Bros. Wm. Pulsipher and W.
H. Branch are traveling on the islands of
Maui, Molokai and Sanai. We have heard
from them all recently, they are well and
feeling first rate. We expect them all here
at Conference, and anticipate a happy re-
union after a separation of some five months.
					M. E. RANDALL.


[column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Beloved sisters of the Relief Society, my
whole soul is filled with adoration, thanks-
giving and praise to God our Father for His
loving kindness extended toward us, in
granting us the privilege of living in this
age of light and knowledge, when truth is
revealed to His children in all its purity
and excellence.
	I would hold sweet converse with you
upon the glorious principles of the Order
of the Son of God, as revealed through our
Prophet and Seer, Brigham Young, and we
would thus see how amicably the require-
ments of this order compare with God's

[column 2]
laws as revealed through His Son. As it is
impossible for me to see all, I will here ex-
press some of my views and send them to
the EXPONENT, confident, that if through
the Spirit of God I write anything worthy
of your perusal, you may each receive it
through its columns.
	Jesus said: 22nd chapt. Math. "Thou
shalt love the Lord Thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul and with all thy
mind. This is the first and great com-
mandment; and the second is like unto it.
"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
On these two commandments hang all the
law and the prophets.
	Now we cannot love God with all the af-
fections of the heart, and with all the ener-
gies of the mind and body, without a know-
ledge of His character and requirements.
Hence the necessity of referring to revela-
tion to know His character and laws. In
so doing we find God is omnipotent, omnis-
cient, unchangeable; a God of justice, judg-
ment, mercy and truth, long suffering, com-
passionate and impartial, and in every na-
tion he that fears God and works righteous-
ness is accepted of Him.
	Believing these revelations of the ex-
cellency of God's character, we can but
adore and praise the holy name of God our
Father; and the enquiry naturally arises,
how shall we prove our love to God. Jesus
Christ (who is one with the Father) has giv-
en us a rule by which we can prove our love
to God. St. John 14 chapt. 15 verse. "If
ye love me keep my commandments."
Again 23rd verse, "If a man love me he
will keep my words." 24th verse, "He that
loveth me not keepeth not my sayings."
Then if we wish to evince our love to God
we must keep all His commands as reveal-
ed through His Son, and our prophets Jos-
eph Smith and Brigham Young, not one
alone but all their sayings, devoting all our
energies, mental and physical, to His ser-
vice, with all which he has given us unre-
servedly. Then we are to show our love to
God by imitating the excellency of his char-
acter, in all the circumstances of life, show-
ing our love for knowledge by the acquisi-
tion of the same; of justice, mercy, truth,
long suffering and love, by the exercise of
the same in our daily walk and conversa-
tion. And like our Father in Heaven no
respector of persons, but one with all those
that fear God and work righteousness.
	The second commandment: "Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself." Jesus Christ
tells us how to obey this law, Math. 7 chapt.
12 verse: "Whatsoever ye would that man
should do to you, do ye even so to them,
for this is the law and the prophets."
	Sisters is not this in accordance with the
teachings of our Prophet and Seer Brigham
Young, that joined hand in hand we devote
our all in building up the kingdom of God.
And does he not show us by example that
we must love our enemies, bless them that
curse us, pray for them that despitefully use
and persecute us; and in so doing, accord-
ing to the words of our Saviour, we shall
be "like our Father in Heaven, who send-
eth His rain on the just and unjust."
						EXCELETTE.


TO-MORROW may never come to us. We
do not live in to morrow. We cannot find
it in any title deeds. The man who owns
whole blocks of real estate and great ships
on the sea does not own a single minute of
to morrow. To-morrow! It is a mysterious
possibility not yet born. It lies under the 
seal of midnight, behind the veil of glit-
tering constellations.


84								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. NOV. 1, 1875.


[column 1]

		"THE GOOD TIME COMING."

	There is doubtless less extravagance indulged
and consequent want produced in the world
through wasteful desires than from mistaken
opinions in regard to economy. It is one thing
to be willing to act with prudence and consis-
tency at all times-another to know how to do
so.
	A great failing with many laboring people is,
they try to accomplish too much in too little
time. Vast quantities of work of various kinds
are turned off hands only half done. This in
reality amounts to nothing less than a waste of
materials, a waste of mortal strength and a
double waste of precious time. If but half the
work were done and well done, that it might
reflect credit instead of discredit upon the per-
formers and accord full value for time and
means expended, this great drain would be
averted.
	Another very general mis-use of time and
strength, is the spending too large a portion of
both for things of minor importance, while
frequently the more essential ones, as care of
the health, attention to religious duties. return-
ing friendly courtesies and being genial and
agreeable, are done in haste, or left for leisure
moments which never come.
	Imagine a man or woman occupying a posi-
tion where week in week out, year in, year
out, the same routine of daily duties must be
rigorously performed. No chance for recrea-
tion or rest; or if a few hour's liberty is taken
now and then, there must be an extra pull
either beforehand or afterward. Such cases are
plentiful, because, alas! the work like the
wealth of the world is so unequally divided.
With more union there would be increased
strength; "many hands make light work."
	But nature has given to each one the desire
to become rich, or at least to lay up something
for the coming "rainy day." And with a di-
vision of work must come a division of the
profits. And labor as one may, scarcely is suf-
ficient received to supply actual needs.
	With this view, the best and brightest days
of many a life is worn out in absolute drudg-
ery. Of course, "hope keeps the heart whole"
-the hope of "a good time coming."
	A time when the hard earnings may be
quietly and peacefully enjoyed without the
necessity of undue exertion to keep along. A
sweet time when there will be opportunities
for social entertainment, and all the little pleas-
antries of life which appear so charming at a 
distance while engaged in by others.
	But how much better it would seem if, some-
how, circumstances might be brought about so
as to afford daily rest and just recompense for
labor to all. So that one should not be weighed
down with too heavy burdens, wearing life out

[column 2]

too fast; and another sighiug over ill health
caused by inaction, slowly dying for want of
exercise, or throwing life away on frivolous
pleasures. So that all might sometimes feel
that "the good time" had really come and that
their efforts and anticipations had not been 
vain.
	We can imagine the organization of co-op-
perative systems through which all labor might
be rendered comparatively easy, and be properly
done in proper time. So that the very practi-
cal lesson, "what is worth doing is worth do-
ing well," might never be lost sight of amid
the hurry-skurry and head-long rush through
life.
	But the failings spoken of above are general
and can only be remedied by a union of efforts.
It rests with the people, when the Lord will
have it so, to usher in the long looked for good
time that is sure to come, when all have
learned how to use each portion of it, letting
not the smallest particle go to waste.


THE GENIUS OF LETTER WRITING.

	Kind reader, did it ever occur to you that
letter-writing requires not only cultivation,
but, to be really successful, one must have
some talent inherent or intuitive?
	It is certainly an accomplishment, and one
refining to the mind and heart.
	In this so-called "fast age." steam-press, loco-
motion and telegraphy take foremost places,
and even genius, unless of a particular quick,
brilliant, or practical order, is below par. Re-
cently we heard a gentleman say in speaking
of a celebrated author: "I don't take much
stock in that kind of thing, it isn't the style
now in society." He was evidently a society
man, polished in manner and capable of con-
versing fluently, but seemingly took large stock
in whiskey, tobacco and politics.
	But society with its faults is not our subject,
and we forbear criticism upon it; excuse us for
trespassing.
	Telegraphy does away with much of the real
labor of letter-writing, enables one to save
time, strength, brains and fatigue, but it is
too expensive a luxury to be indulged in by all
classes upon all occasions, even were it adapta-
ble to all.
	The generality of people think letter-writing
a very ordinary thing; one may often hear
the remark made upon the question being
asked whether a person writes (or composes, to
be more explicit): "Well, yes they can write a
tolerable good letter;" meaning that they can
scratch off a few hurried lines, and know
where to date and put their signature, which
by the way is more than some people ever learn
in a lifetime.
	That letter-writing is a prolific source of de-
velopment to the mind and heart, to the writer
and receiver, is scarcely thought of.  Yet such
is the actual fact, as can be abundantly proven;
also that the letters of any certain age, if well
written and to the point, handed down to
other generations, might give one ideas upon
almost all the different topics of the times, the
business capacity, the status of the money
market, the government, etc.  Touching upon
these subjects, one might combine much of the
history of a past nation from the letters of some
of the most prominent writers of the time.
	This style of letter might not perhaps require
any particular talent in the writer, but even
these, if written in good feeling and with tact,
may be pleasing and genial in their way, and
not uninteresting to dis-interested persons.
	Some persons possessing good natural abili-
ties and a fair education fail to make themselves
at all entertaining in writing letters.  They
have no taste for it, or very frequently think it
only superfluous, a waste of time, and all that
sort of thing.
	Letters of friendship are among the finest
productions of this style of composition; letters
that when you read them you know are genuine
they carry the conviction with them; there
seems soul in them; they almost possess indi-
viduality they partake so much the character
of the writer; such letters are treasures to be
preserved.  It may be a time will come when
the dear hand that traced the lines in loving
thought and tenderness will be cold in death,
but in perusing them one may again unseal the
fountains of the past, and feel that nearness
that characterized the flow of loving words and
affectionate sentiments.  How deeply people
can sympathize with each other by letter, even
though separated by land or sea; acquain-
tanceship can be maintained, and social con-
versation carried on, thoughts and feelings
communicated with a cordiality and natural-
ness which will bring the absent friend before
one almost in living presence.  Such letters
are like whispers, or the echo of a whisper.
But to write them one must have faith in the
friend to whom they are writing and the full-
est confidence and trust in their friendship, and
then there will be no wall of reserve, no crusti-
ness of constraint.
	There are people whose letters  seem to
partake of themselves; they are a thing apart;
they lack genuineness; should you meet them
after reading their letters you would almost
question whether they had written them. Not
because they surpassed the individual, in
merit, or feeling, or tone, but were something
entirely dissimilar in character.  It is because
they leave themselves and the opinions they
profess, the sentiments they entertain, entirely
out, and shrink from committing them to pa-
per.  When you have read their letters you
know no more of the person than you did be-
fore.
	To be able to write a letter that will speak
to the heart, that imparts individuality with-
out self-consciousness, one must be possessed
of a soul which is eloquent in feeling, and of
sympathies which are undefinable.
	In conclusion it can only be said that the
person who can impart such personality in
letters as will transport you into their atmos-
phere and tell you more of their life in ten
minutes than another could in so many years,
possesses the true genius of letter writing.
	Kind reader, if your patience is not exhaust-
ed with so frivolous a subject, anon you shall
hear from us again under the title of old let-
ters.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR BARFOOT and C. R. Savage have a
stand at the Townsend House, where they will
keep for sale newspapers, photographic views
of Utah, mineral specimens, etc.

	ALEXANDER T. WHITE, the new Chief Jus-
tice, with his wife, son and daughter, was wel-
comed to this city on the afternoon of Sunday,
24th ult. We understand they took quarters at
the Townsend House.

	A COLD, cloudy season set in about the 25th
of October, as is nsual for the time of year, as
if to give warning of the approaching winter,
bid people beware and prepare for its ravages.
We hope for a little more bright, warm sun-
shine, however, before the chilly winds begin
to sigh in real earnest; “The melancholy days
have come!"


[Column 1]
	IN READING the Exponent, ladies, do not fail
to notice the advertisements on the last page.
Our design is, in advertising as in other re-
spects, to give place to nothing in these col-
umns that will not be of interest and benefit
to our readers. We take pleasure in recom-
mending especial attention to be given to the
Co-operative Institutions and Home Industries
established among the people here.
	ERRATUM.—In the Acrostic, "President
George Albert Smith," which appeared in the
EXPONENT of Oct. 1st, by the mis-placing of
words at the end of the second and third lines,
the rhyme is impaired. It should read:
		Prepare this sacred relic room,
			Receive this holy trust
		Enshrined with love and tears, O tomb!
		Sad offering—dust to dust!
	THE MOST destructive fire which has ever
raged in this city occurred Thursday evening,
Oct. 28th, on East Temple street opposite the
Wasatch Hotel, and burned all the buildings,
offices, stores, shops, etc., from the White
House to Yeoman's saloon just north of the
Walker House. The loss is estimated at $25,-
000. The firemen, it is said, performed their
part energetically and creditably; much praise
is due them.
	PROFESSOR J. L. Barfoot has recently opened
a commission agency and deals in minerals
and specimens of that kind. The Professor is
thoroughly versed in his business, and we
heartily wish him the patronage and success he
deserves. Orders can be left at the Deseret
Museum, or addressed through the Post Office,
box 816. Professor Barfoot has for some years
been Superintendent of the Museum in this
city.
	RECENTLY WE have received communications
for publication from different places and par-
ties, without the persons real signature at-
tached. We presume the parties to be young
persons who are ignorant of the laws of publi-
cation, otherwise they would know better. It
is proper and required of every contributor to
furnish the editor with their real name. Some
time ago these rules were published in these
columns, now we find it absolutely necessary
to re-publish it.
	MR. MARK Croxall was the recipient of a
complimentsry benefit at the Salt Lake Thea-
tre, on the evening of Saturday, Oct. 23rd. The
well-filled house showed the appreciation of the
public for the abilities and efforts of the mas-
terly cornet player, and the bill was varied
and attractive, so that all concerned were, or
should have been, pleased with the result. Sev-
eral parties have been given for the benefit of
some of the missionaries who have lately
started and are about starting on missions,
some to foreign countries and others to the
States.
	SUPT. COM. Schools, O. H. Riggs, reports
that he has recently visited, in that capacity,
the districts of Salt Lake County; fourteen dis-
tricts have schools now in regular session, in
which are enrolled 884 pupils; five other dis-
tricts will open their schools the first of No-
vember. He complains that the trustees of
more than half the districts have not sent in
their reports as required by law; the time for
sending in these reports was extended to the
30th of October; after that date no report could
be received, and such districts as are not re-
ported, forfeit their claims to any portion of
the public funds.
	THE MISSIONARIES who were called at the
last Conference to go to Europe, left this city
Tuesday morning, October 26th, for their fields
of labor. Among them of our acquaintance

[Column 2]
were H. G. Park for England, Martin Lenzi
for Switzerland, and Rulon S. Wells (son of
President D. H. Wells) who is to labor in Ger-
many. Mrs. S. P. Teasdel and her eldest
daughter accompanied the missionaries. Mrs.
Teasdel goes to visit her friends but more par-
ticularly for the benefit of her health which
has been declining for some time. The mis-
sionary party intend sailing from New York
for Liverpool on the Guion Steamer Dakota on
the third of November. We wish them pros-
perity them in their labors, and that each one
may fill the mission upon which he has started
honorably and satisfactorily, realizing the bless-
ings of health and the Holy Spirit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			RESTITUTION.

	The word restitution has dwelt upon my
mind of late until I felt impressed to say a
few words upon the subject, for it seems to
me that people are heedless and negligent
on this point, and do not look upon it as
seriously as they should. It seems to me
in speaking of re-baptism and renewal of
covenants, we should be careful to straight-
en up some of the old differences which ex-
ist between families and one another. How
many are there who from time to time go
to the table of the Lord's supper with feel-
ings of hatred towards one another, where-
as St. Paul says, "If ye have aught against
thy brother go first and make it right, lest
otherwise ye eat and drink unworthily."
	How often evil reports get circulated
where there is no foundation for them; and
they are circulated from one to another, and
cause trouble, unhappiness and bad feelings;
and how little is thought of the sin of injur-
ing another. Will not sincere and true re-
pentance seek to make reparation for wrong?
Debts left unpaid often cause bad feelings;
it makes us lose confidence in one another.
Going down into the waters of baptism will
not avail us much if we do not seek to
make right all our wrongs, but if we hon-
estly and candidly confess the wrongs we
have done to those who have been the suf-
ferers, then we can start afresh, believing
fully that God will be merciful to us.
	Dear Editor, do not think I am presuming
to teach, I only wish to present to your read-
ers a few ideas which have been upon my
mind, and I trust I have not offended any;
if you have a spare corner for it in your val-
uable paper, I trust you will believe me sin-
cere in my desire to use an influence for
good.
						ELIZABETH.


AIRY PEOPLE.

	Have you got in your neighborhood any
of those airy people that have the faculty
of making everybody uncomfortable where
they are? People that, when you enter
their presence, act as if an apology was due
them for your existence. They are to be
found in all classes, sometimes among the
poorest people we have, and I have often
thought it was wisely ordered that some
should be poor, for if they had been rich no
one else could have lived in their vicinity.
You may, perchance, some time in your life,
have had some of these "stuck up people,"
visit you, and if you did not feel like sing-
ing "Hallelujah" when they left, you are
not like me. Nothing is good enough for
them. You may wait upon them until your
weary limbs refuse to move, and they do
not thank yon; the honor of having them
for company is sufficient. If you chance to


have such a man or woman to help you, how
soon you find yourself thinking you are not
your own master. They very soon give
you to understand that they do as they
please and you must do as you can. I have
often met young women (not ladies), in the
street, covered with flash jewelry and cot-
ton lace, with their heads high, whose ap-
pearance seemed to say, "Give the road,"
and I generally turn out. I have seen min-
isters, physicians, lawyers, students of all
kinds, farmers, and everyday laborers, all
afflicted with this stuckupishness, and I
never can account for it in only one way.
The trouble is in the top of the head—a 
lack of brains. You never see any one with
a good stock of common sense, but can con-
form to anything and make themselves
agreeable anywhere, and I would recom-
mend every one that has an idea they are so
much better than anybody else, to try and
see if they cannot get a little more into
their heads.
						AMELIA.
	Cayuga, N. Y., Oct., 1875.


INTEGRITY OF CHARACTER.

	Young men should be deeply impressed
with the vast importance of cherishing
those principles, and of cultivating those
habits which will secure them the confi-
dence and esteem of the wise and the good.
	A young man may be unfortunate, he
may be poor and penniless, but if he possess
unbending integrity, and unwavering pur-
pose to do what is honest and just, he will
have friends and patrons, whatever may be
the embarrassments and exigencies into
which he is thrown. The young may thus
possess a capital of which none of the mis-
fortunes and calamities of life can deprive
them.
	We have known men who have suddenly
been reduced from affluence to penury by
some overwhelming misfortune, which they
could neither foresee nor prevent. To-day
they were prosperous, to-morrow, every
earthy prospect was blighted, and every-
thing in their future aspect of life was dark
and dismal. Their business was gone, their
prosperity gone, and they feel that all is
gone; but they have a rich treasure that
nothing can take away. They have integ-
rity of character, and this gives them in-
fluence, raises up friends, furnishes them
with pecuniary aid, with which to com-
mence life once more, under auspicious cir-
cumstances.
	We cannot too strongly impress upon our
young men the importance of abstaining
from everything which shocks their moral
sensibilities, wounds their conscience, and
has a tendency to weaken that nice sense
of honor and integrity so indispensable to a
good character. "Integrity of character!"
Who ever possessed it, that did not derive
untold advantage from it? It is better than
riches, it is of more value than "diamonds
and all precious stones;" and yet every man
may possess it. The poorest may have it,
and no power on earth can wrest it from
them. Young men, prize integrity of char-
acter above all earthly gifts.


THEN only can we pray with hope when
we have done our best. And though the
means cannot effect that which we desire,
yet God will have us use the likeliest means
on our part to effect it. In vain shall Mos-
es be upon the hill, if Joshua be not in the
valley. Prayer without means is a mock-
ery of God.—Bishop Hall, 1574.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
	IS WOMAN THE ONLY SEDUCER?

	"Pearl Parsons" made this pertinent in-
quiry in a late Journal and then went
on to answer it in the negative by
giving an experience of her own. I will
strengthen her story by relating one which
I know to be true.
	Some years ago a young lady, one of a
party of gentlemen and ladies journeying
for pleasure to the West, noticed on taking
a seat in a car at M., an elderly gentleman,
very respectable in appearance, who, seeing
her about to put a traveling bag into the
rack, which was a work of some difficulty,
offered to do it for her. She accepted with
a bow, receiving a hearty and polite one in
return. She then turned her attention to
the prospect from the window, and had quite
forgotten the gentleman until a seat beside
her was vacated upon arrival at a station,
when he took it and commenced a conversa-
tion in which she participated decorously,
being a very correct and dignified lady, not
much of a talker and reserved with stran-
gers. He knew she was one of a party com-
posed of respectable and educated people,
and took part in the conversation which of-
ten became general, and a certain something
which caused her to consider him in the
ministry.
	About dusk, before the lanterns were
lighted, he drew nearer, and, ere long, con-
ducted himself in a manner unbecoming
and utterly uncalled for. She quietly arose,
and coldly saying "allow me to pass,"
changed her seat. Never to this day has
she enlightened her companions as to why
she changed her seat, nor did they dream
how grossly she had been insulted.
	"Why did you not summon the conduc-
tor and have the scoundrel turned out of the
car?" I enquired, when she told me the
story.
	"I did not wish to spoil the pleasure of
my friends, nor to get into the paper in any
such disgusting way! I went to the plat-
form and stood there for a few moments as
if for a change. But my heart beat fast
and my temper raged dreadfully. I never
had such hard work to control it before nor
since, thank God. And he was—"
	Here she paused, hesitating and looking
at me searchingly.
	"Go on, never fear I'll speak his name if
you are unwilling to have me," I said.
	"Three or four weeks after, in my native
State, I attended a Convention, commera-
tive of an important event; several excel-
lent speeches had been made, when the ora-
tor of the occasion took the stand, and in 
him I beheld the miscreant who had made
my journey from M. so shameful a remem-
brance." 
	"He'd have caught it then had I been in 
your place," I interrupted.
	"He did, and he will never forget it. I 
moved my seat until I was very near and
directly in front of him. When he beheld
me he turned pale even to his lips, and
faltering, nearly fell. Then, "a sudden
faintness" was whispered about me. He
speedily recovered, and casting upon me an
appealing glance, he proceeded with his ad-
dress. Twice since, in public places, in ros-
trum or pulpit, in large cities—his own one
of them—I have brought him to his level.
Perhaps he has behaved differently since,
I doubt it, however. Sometime an expos-
ure will ensue. I don't believe I am the
only Nemesis on his track."
	After some urging she gave me his name.
As yet it is unknown to fame (of this kind
I mean).
	I think my friend did hardly right in
keeping the matter secret from her friends.

[column 2]
Had she exposed him he could not have
gathered laurels at the convention referred
to, nor have had other opportunities for per-
sonal aggrandizement, which have followed
him thus far. I heartily wish every wo-
man would, fearless of consequences, take
active immediate measures to tear off the
sheep's clothing from the backs of the
wolves that attack them. These remorse-
less creatures know full well how hard it is 
for a woman to come out before the world
and cry, "Behold the man!" But it should
be done. It is the only way to make sure
that sometime there may come a millenni-
um, when only the right man will be in the 
right place.				M. A. A.
—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE late Woman's Congress in Syracuse,
New York, was presided over by MISS
Maria Mitchell with dignity and tact.

	MRS. Lucas, John Bright's sister, is now
Grand Worthy Vice Templar for England.
Mrs. Margeret E. Parker fills the same posi-
tion in Scotland.

	MARY Kyle Dallas now occupies the posi-
tion formerly filled by Fanny Fern, and it is
said receives a salary of 7,500 dollars. This
is certainly not unfortunate genius.

	MISS Edmonia Lewis is a colored girl
who has become renowned as a sculptor; she
is at present in St. Paul Minnesota, and will
exhibit at that place some of her works of
art.

	MISS Josephine Jewell the daughter of
Postmaster General Jewell, was married
Wednesday evening Oct. 13th, to W. E.
Dodge of New York; the ceremony took
place in Hartford Conn., and was followed
by a most magnificent reception.

	MRS. Everet Green, an English lady, is
engaged upon a very extraordinary work
for a woman to undertake; it is a Calendar
of Domestic State Papers, and it is said the
first volume, which has already been pub-
lished, dates back to the year after the
death of Charles I, and relates to the pro-
ceedings of the Council of State.

	AN elaborate piece of worsted work exe-
cuted by Mrs. Keach, a very elderly lady,
has been recently exhibited at a fair in
New York State. The size of the work is
six feet long and four wide. She performed
it in eighteen months, working ten hours
each day. It contains 1,857,600 stitches and
has twenty figures of men women and
horses. The whole represents the death of
George Douglas on the battle field, after aid-
ing Mary Queen of Scotts to escape from
Lochleven Castle.

	MRS. Mary Gay Robinson of Brooklyn,
New York, has by determination, energy
and perseverence become a successful re-
porter for newpapers, dailies and weeklies.
She has had many difficulties to encounter,
but has struggled through. Meeting such
obstacles as the objections of friends, poor
pay and hard work. The Boston Woman's
Journal says this is one of the departments
of business for which women are eminently
qualified, and we heartily concur in the
opinion, but it will want courage, firmness,
and strength of character, to withstand
comment and criticism.


REMEMBRANCE is the only paradise out
of which we cannot be driven away. In-
deed our first parents were not to be de-
prived of it.—Richter.


SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.
	The election in Ohio, Nebraska and Iowa
took place Oct. 12......A terrible tornado
visited Milford Penn. Oct. 16, it lasted 30
minutes and destroyed houses, fences, trees
etc......A severe shock of earthquake was
felt in Calcutta also in Sylhet and in Eas-
tern Bengal Sept. 3rd......The Consul of Si-
beria reported to the London press the pro-
gress of their war with the barbarous tribes;
there were five engagements in which the
Siberians were victorious......There were
heavy gales on the coasts of Great Britain
on the 14th of Oct., several coasters wreck-
ed and a number of lives lost......The Ala-
bama Constitutional Convention has decided
to provide separate schools for children of
African descent......Bridesbury U. S. Arse-
nal near Philadelphia was recently blown to
atoms, two persons were killed and several
severely injured......A communication has
been made to the secretary of the Treasury,
of gold in Alaska, in paying quantities......
Prof. Baird of Washington, has presented
the Fish department in Canada with 100,000
eggs of the California salmon......Great
Britain is credited with having more steam
vessels and tonnage than all the rest of the
world......Mr. John W. F. Hobbs a million-
aire of Northhampton Mass. started in life
by running a line of omnibuses which he
borrowed the money to buy; he drove one
of them himself. Recently he gave $10,000
to build a school-house.
			FOREIGN.
	The British negotiations with China are
making favorable progress; Minister Wade
obtained the guarantees which he consider-
ed necessary from the Chinese Government
......The Kaiserhof (hotel) in Berlin, said to
be the finest structure of the kind in Ger-
many was burned recently......Disastrous
inundations caused by recent rains are re-
ported to have occurred in Leicestershire
and Warwickshire, some lives were lost, rail-
roads damaged and heavy destruction of
property......Assurances from the Atlantic
coast are that peace is firmly established in
Bolivia......The French Ultramontanes are
trying to accomplish the building of a rail-
way from Jaffa to Jerusalem, and are mak-
ing up capital by issuing shares.


OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
			["Augusta Grant" is signed in cursive here]
	Your "Protest" which appeared in the 
last EXPONENT is, to say the least, amus-
ing.
	I do not profess to be a reader of character,
but still, I consider myself safe in making
the following statements. You did not 
mean all that you said. You thought you
did, for at the moment of writing you felt
just as you wrote. You often feel like that
and give vent to similar sentiments, but
after all you do not mean it.
	You "detest the men!" No father was
ever blest with a more obedient and loving
daughter, no brother ever knew a more
obliging and affectionate sister than you are.
In conversation, both with your own and the 
opposite sex, you are vivacious and enter-
taining. You should avoid sarcasm, to cul-
tivate it would not improve your charming
proclivities. You wish to please and you
do it. And when you marry—which will
be at no very distant day—you will make a 
most admirable wife.
	You do not believe that all the men are
"conceited" and full of "vanity." You
know of those whom you consider noble and


gifted; and no woman has a higher appre-
ciation of true manly worth than you have;
none entertain more exalted ideas of what
men should be.
	You are one of the glorious girls with
which—thanks to our judicious and faithful
mothers—our communities are being filled;
one of the pure souled, high minded, noble
hearted, and clear headed.
	You have plenty of admirers, but so far,
none of them have been so fortunate as to
discover the magic key to your heart.
Sometimes, in hours of quiet meditation,
you would give almost anything if some
one would come along of the right sort, upon
whom you might bestow your heart's best
treasures; for really they are becoming bur-
densome to you, you have carried them so
long alone.
	A great world of warm, emotional feel-
ings pent up in one little heart! The very
idea is enough to awaken the sympathies of
a colder nature than mine. Do not, how-
ever, presume that, heedless of your kindly
warning, I have a notion to submit myself
to your tender mercies, by troubling you
for a pair of mittens. Not this time.
		Respectfully,
							HAL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OLD AGE AND GREAT WORK

	Those men who have written on the
achievements of their fellow-men have
dwelt with most interest on the work of
the young. Alexander and Napoleon are
constantly adduced as examples of the pro-
digious power of youth for execution. In
literature we are told that Byron died a 
youth; so of Chatterton and Kirke White,
and many others of their class. Indeed,
every department of achievement is exam-
ined with great care, and the result of all
is, as many teach us, that the young do the
great work of the world. We must infer,
therefore, that after a man has reached a 
certain age—say sixty—he might as well
lay aside his implements of labor, and step 
aside, for the young gentry to carry on the
great enterprises of life. An admirable
procedure this! Away with such an absurd-
ity! When a man has reached his three
score he is ready, if he has been just to his
mind and body, to do the most magnificent
work of his whole life. Of course, he can-
not do this if he has wrenched his voice to
pieces by the time he was thirty, or addled
his brain by stimulants and late night work,
or by any irregularity in life and labor. It
is not difficult to find among living men
most excellent examples of the union of
old age and brilliant achievements. As
Americans we are habitually reminded that
our great men die young. But we have
abundant proofs to the contrary. Our own
poet Bryant is an aged man, and the great-
est literary triumph of his life is his latest
book, the translation of the Iliad. He has
been working ever since he was a freshman
at college, and his editorials in the Evening
Post would make a small library in them-
selves. And instead of his being an excep-
tion to the law of longevity and labor, we 
claim that he illustrated what would be the
rule if we only remained true to the re-
quirements of mind and body. Who is
more sprightly than Bancroft, now nearly
eighty, and yet who among us has done
more steady service for fifty years?—Chris-
tian Advocate.


Perfect valor is to do unwitnessed what
we should be capable of performing before
the whole world.


A TRUTHFUL SKETCH.

	Let a man fail in business, what an effect
it has on his former creditors! Men who
have taken him by the arm, laughed and
chatted with him by the hour, shrug their
shoulders and pass on with a cold "How do
you do?"
	Every trifle of a bill is hunted up and
presented that would not have seen the
light for months to come, but for the mis-
fortunes of the debtor. If it is paid, well
and good; if not, the scowl of the sheriff,
perhaps, meets him at the corner. A man
that has never failed knows but little of hu-
man nature.
	In prosperity he sails along gently, waft-
ed by favoring smiles and kind words from
everybody. He prides himself on his name
and spotless character, and makes his boast
that he has not an enemy in the world.
Alas! the change. He looks at the world in
a different light when reverses come upon
him. He reads suspicion on every brow.
He hardly knows how to move or to do this
things or the other; there are spies about
him, a writ is ready for his back. To know
what kind of stuff the world is made of a
person must be unfortunate, and stop pay-
ing once in his lifetime. If he has kind
friends then they are made manifest. A
failure is a moral seive, it brings out the
wheat and shows the chaff. A man thus
learns that words and pretended good will
are not and do not constitute real friend-
ship.


For the EXPONENT.
		TRIFLES AND DUTIES.

	The burden of the cry from many a con-
scientious heart, tender, loving and gentle;
these little things, trifles so insignificant in
themselves that they cannot be told, scarcely
defined in one's own mind, yet they fret,
wear, worry and irritate poor weak mortals
almost beyond endurance.
	After all are they really trifles? there are
very few things in this life that do not have
a significance, or carry with them a conse-
quence. If they are of no particular im-
portance to another, perhaps they may be to
the individual life which is encountering
them. These little trifles make up the sum
of human existence, which effect for good
or evil the life of the individual, the asso-
ciations, the influence, the tone and the
bearing of the sphere in which they move.
There is a great deal said about duty and its
results, is it not closely interwoven with
trifles? Persons are too apt to think it is
mighty efforts, and tremendous means that
move the world, but the trifles which seem
so small and not worth heeding, have much
more bearing upon life, character and fu-
ture existence here and hereafter, than one
is apt to imagine. If one is careful to do
their duty conscientiously in trifles (as they
are called) they will almost invariably form
correct habits of living and so systematize
their conduct and affairs that the result will
be a well-regulated life, household or family.
How often is it remarked I have a little
cold, it is only a trifle, and yet that trifle
may end in death; or I have over-fatigued
myself, or heated my blood, it is nothing, a
mere trifle, yet how often attended by the
most serious consequences. It would be
well, for the young especially, and for all
indeed to look upon every duty however
trivial it may seem, as constituting an im-
portant part of the great whole that makes
up the business and enjoyment of life. A
kind word, a smile, or a tear of sympathy,
all these are very little things but how wel-


come to the receiver. If one could realize
the vast amount of happiness which might
be conferred gratuitously in the associations
of every-day life, the world would be a much
more desirable place to live in.
							B. B.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Graham Soda Biscuit.—One quart of graham
flour, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two-
thirds of a teacupful of molasses; mix with milk
and water.
	Rye and Indian Drop Cakes.—One pint of In-
dian meal, one half-pint of rye meal, two eggs, two
spoonfuls of molasses, a little salt; work it with
cold milk so as to drop from a spoon into hot fat;
be sure to have a smooth batter.
	Ginger Snaps.—One-quarter of a pound of su-
gar; one quarter of a pound of butter, the same
of lard; beat them well together; one pint of mo-
lasses, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoon-
ful of soda dissolved in a wine glass of milk, flour
sufficient to roll them thin, and bake quick.
	In using porcelain kettles, when fruit etc., sticks
to the bottom, put in warm ashes, and cover with
cold water; let it remain a few minutes, pour off,
and wash; if not clean the first time, soak again,
and longer.
	Paste which will keep unchanged in warm or
damp weather may be made in the following man-
ner: Put a tea-spoonful of powdered alum in two
quarts of water; and let it boil. Mix a pint of
flour smoothly into a pint of cold water, and stir
it into the boiling alum water, continuing the boil-
ing and stirring until the flour is cooked and the
whole is clear, like starch. Add to this about
half a tea-spoonful of essential oil of cloves or
cinnamon, strain through a wire gauze or perfora-
ted tin strainer, and bottle in wide-mouthed jars,
which should be corked to keep out dust.
	Graham Crackers.—Have some soft water,
either cold or tepid, in a mixing dish, and sift nice
meal slowly through the fingers into the water,
stirring until too stiff to manage with a spoon;
then mould the dough on a board with the hands
until it is about as stiff as for common biscuit. Roll
it with a rolling pin about three fourths of an
inch thick, and cut with a round cookie cutter and
lay on a baking tin, not greased but dusted with
flour, so the cakes will not touch each other. Bake
about 30 minutes in a pretty hot oven, making
them sharp and crusty or tender as preferred.
Take them from the oven in a pan or bowl and lay
a napkin over them to steam awhile, then lay
them in neat little piles on plates for the table.
They are excellent and more popular now than
any other form of bread.
	Canning Fruit.—The fruit should be perfectly
fresh, and the sooner it is canned after it is taken
from the tree or vine, the better. If a small quan-
tity, say half a dozen quarts, is cooked at one time,
the color of the fruit and the uniformity of the
cooking will be better than if a larger quantity is
attempted. There is no necessity of using an ounce
of sugar in a gross of cans. The fruit will keep
just as well without it and be far more grateful to
a healthy appetite. Glass cans with glass tops, a
rubber band and a screw-ring give best satisfaction,
as they can be sealed and unsealed in a moment's
time. As for the process, when the fruit is done,
pour it scalding hot into the cans, let them remain
untouched fifteen or twenty minutes, till the fruit
settles, then fill them full again and seal up. If
the can is placed on a very wet cloth it will not
break when the scalding fruit is put in it. Turn
the cans, after screwing them up tightly, bottom
side up, and if no syrup leaks out, no air can get
in. When cold set them away in a dark, cool clo-
set.


INDIA has 750,000 acres devoted to the
cultivation of opium.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	 About Sleep.—The sleep of perfect health is
dreamless—a kind of sleep not procured by lauda-
num, chloral, or any other drug. Do healthy
work enough to weary you, and you will sleep a
healthy sleep. Strange as it seems, sleep is the
greatest need of man, next to air. He can live
on a very little food and drink, but any continuous
reduction of his hours of sleep, even in moderate
proportion; results in insanity or death. We have
said that this is strange; and is it not so—that the
greatest boon and the greatest need in life should
be absolute oblivion?—that to enjoy, indeed to en-
dure, two-thirds of life we must pass one-third, or
nearly that proportion of it, in a state of absolute
unconsciousness? For sleep to be perfectly re-
freshing should be dreamless.
	At this season of the year it is one of the most
important things to avoid taking cold; a little care
will often prevent a cold that will cause much suf-
fering. The Herald of Health says one of the
means to prevent a cold is a daily bath in a warm
room with much friction, but in no case to let the
body become chilled; use most friction over the
chest and throat, and snuff a little of the water in-
to the nostrils warmed to a comfortable tempera-
ture. Next after the bath take daily exercise in
the open air, but not too much exposing one's self
to the cold and the sun for a short time, but not to
exhaustion. People who are not very vigorous
should avoid over exertion, and keep the strength
up to the highest point. One preventive of cold
is to take plenty of sleep. One cause of cold is
eating too heartily after a hard day's work, when
there are not forces enough to digest the food and
keep up the circulation. A cold in its early sta-
ges may often be broken up by a hot foot bath,
with warmth to the body, especially a hot pack or
hot bath in the middle of the day. It is not ad-
visable to take a hot bath at night in such cases.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	FOR a young man to owe many men, is
an ill omen.
	A MAN'S word is worth just $1 in gold
when sent by cable.
	"WHY is dew like a falling star?" One
is mist in earth, and the other missed from
heaven.
	ISN'T it strange that while Nature clothes
the trees with thick foliage in the summer,
she makes them go bare in the winter.
	WHY should you be justified in picking
the pockets of a vender of engravings?
Because he has pict-ures.
	IT is hard to tell which will bring the
most pleasant expression into a woman's
face—to tell her that her baby is heavy or
her bread light.
	A WISCONSIN paper has this personal
item: "Those who know nice old Mr. Wil-
son of this place will regret to hear that he
was assaulted in a brutal manner last week,
but was not killed."
	THE newspapers state that a well known
banker of Paris has absconded, leaving a
deficit behind. Mrs. Partington thinks
that was very good of him to leave it, when
he might have got off clear with everything.
	AN Englishman was boasting to a Yan-
kee that they had a book in the British
Museum which was once owned by Cicero.
"Oh, that ain't nothin'," retorted the Yan-
kee; "in the museum in Bosting they've 
got the lead pencil that Noah used to check
off the animals that went into the ark."
	EVERYONE thinks his party has the ker-
nel, and others only the shell. Whereas


they are all apt to let the kernel alone, and
dispute about the shell, as if that were the
kernel.—Gossner.
	A WHIMSICAL comparison being made
between a clock and a woman, Charles Fox
observes that he thought the simile bad;
"for," said he, "a clock serves to point out
the hours, and a woman to make us forget
them.
	IN reply to a young writer who wished to
know "what magazine will give me the
highest position quickest," a contemporary
advises "a powder magazine, if you can
contribute a fiery article."
	"MADAME," said a gentleman to his wife
"let me tell you, facts are very stubborn
things." Quoth the lady: "What a fact
you must be!"
	A DOCTOR, attending a wit who was very
ill, apologized for being late one day saying
that he had to stop to see a man who had
fallen down a well. "Did he kick the buck-
et, doctor?" inquired the other. 
<tt’lmt- fnagazine="" 'will="" glvomo="" the="" highdstposltion="" quickest,”="" a="" contemporary="" 1="" adviscs'm="" povder="" magazine,="" -="" if="" you="" can-="" contribute="" fiery="" article.1="" 1,1j-di-i="" madai?="" s.tid="" gentleman="" to="" his'wife"="" “let="" me="" tpjl="" you.="" facts="" are="" very="" stubborn="" tlnns.’,<="" ,‘qaotii="" ,'thfh="" iatjy:="" “what="" a!,fact="" .'l.ii'="" v="" i="" ..ii="" ."="" a


[Column 1]
﻿F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will 
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 30[-], Salt Lake City.

NEW 
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S. P. TEASDEL'S.
Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels, Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduced Prices.  Boys' and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps. &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
S. P. TEASDEL.

MILLINERY.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Column 2]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &C.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker.
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for 
ONE YEAR.

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROPTON, Supt.

Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Style of 
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER AND EGGS.
F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
O[-]
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STR[--].

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1875.		No. 12.﻿


DON'T SCOLD.

	"If you would only speak pleasantly sometimes, mother
—but you never do!" These were the very words we
heard from the lips of a ten year old girl.

	O mother! dear mother! don't scold at me now!
		For I've done the best that I could!
	I was thinking this morning I'd try all day long,
		And see if I couldn't be good.
	There was work to be done, and my lessons to learn,
		And baby for some one to hold:
	And now that it's evening and everything wrong—
		Please mother, dear mother, don't scold!

	O mother! dear mother! don't scold at me now!
		Your harsh words so bitterly fall,
	How can I have patience to try to be good,
		When you never encourage at all?
	And where shall the spirit of patience be found,
		If a MOTHER be cruel and cold?
	And it is so cruel to be always cross—
		Please mother! dear mother! don't scold!

	O mother! dear mother! don't scold at me now!
		Speak tenderly once in a while;
	Twould bring so much sunshine and peace to our home
		If you could but practice a smile.
	Very soon all the children would imitate you,
		And your burdens be lighter ten fold,
	And father would be so much happier, too—
		Please mother, dear mother, don't scold!


[column 1]
						For the EXPONENT
		THE DRAMA OF LIFE.

	"All the world's a stage, and all the men
and women merely actors!"
	How wide the place of action, and how,
vast the number of actors!
	As we look beneath, around, above, what
a ceaseless shifting of scenes do we behold!
What different grades of talent and its ad-
vancement appear before us!
	Casting our eyes upward, we see men and
women who by dint of patient labor and per-
severing courage have attained an honora-
ble fame, and well merited prosperity; and
as the play draws to a close, and they pre-
sent themselves in the last act, they feel
the proud consciousness of having enacted
their parts faithfully, and nobly; and that
the applause of an appreciative multitude
will certainly follow the dropping of the
curtain which hides them forever from its
view. 
	Below these we see many others in the
prime of life and vigor, ambitious of suc-
cess, pushing onward toward the eminence
that towers above; and which they are de-
termined to reach before the end of the
great drama, when they too, will be call-
ed upon to make their final bow.
	On each side of the place where we stand
we may see a still greater number—young
actors like ourselves, hardly risen from
the ranks of the supernumeraries. These
have received the first part, and are on the
point of making their debut on the stage of
active life.
	And now is the time for serious and deep
reflection. What is this part that has been
cast to us? What is the character we are to
represent? And what remains for us to do
that we may perform our part creditably,
and thus insure promotion? For we, too,
are anxious, as were our predecessors to ap-
pear some day before the public in the role
of a star.
	We must commence at the bottom round
of the ladder; study diligently and compre-

[column 2]
hensively; note every detail; form a true
conception of what we study; keep our sen-
ses alive; watch and wait for the cue, and
then walk boldly out upon the stage and do
our best.
	If we play our small parts well, promo-
tion will surely follow; and if we persevere
and strive to excel, use noble means to reach
the summit of our ambition,keep a clear head
and an honest heart, success is certain. Op-
position should never appal us; treat rivals
with courtesy and charity. Never encour-
age doubts "they are traitors" and those who
utter them to discourage us are unworthy
of notice. Press on and we will rise above
them just as surely as the sun rises daily
above the eastern hills.
	Though in our time we may be compell-
ed to play many different characters, still,
every actor has his forte; and in determin-
ing what ours are, great judgment is neces-
sary, for on this point often depends the
happiness of a life.
	We must think deeply, and think for our-
selves. We are all endowed with talents of
different kinds, and are not fitted to fill the
same stations in life.
	To make the most of their gifts is a sol-
emn duty imposed on every one, and one for
which all will be held to answer at the last
day.
	In choosing our walks in life we should
"consider well, wherein kind nature meant
us to excel,” and having satisfied ourselves
as to this, let onward be our motto, and with
an unfaltering trust in God,and heedless of
the scorn of the cold and jealous world,
slowly but surely mount to the eminence
whereon lies the reward for virtuous indus-
try.
							THESPIS.
	Bingham Canyon, Oct. 31st, 1875.


A LETTER AND TRIBUTE OF
		          RESPECT.

	SPANISH FORK Nov. 7th, 1875.

DEAR EXPONENT:

	I have expected to see a report of our Re-
lief Society in your valuable paper before
this date, but as you have not yet received
it, I would say that the Relief Society and
Young Ladies Association are both doing
excellently well. The sisters old and young
are alive to the importance of their duties,
as mothers and daughters in Israel; more es-
pecially since the good time we had when
visited by Sister E. R. Snow and her asso-
ciates, while on their visit South last sum-
mer. We have been called upon to mourn
the loss of one of our most faithful members
and teacher in our Relief Society. Sister
Mary Banks, aged thirty-six years. She
leaves a husband and seven children to
mourn her loss; she has been a member in
the Spanish Fork choir twenty years. She
was a faithful Saint and a virtuous careful
wife and mother, a dutiful daughter a sister
dearly beloved. Her sudden death was
quite a shock to her many friends and rela-
tives.
	Yours in the Covenant,
				MARY FURGESON.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A NEW poem by Whittier, with illustra-
tions, has just been published in Boston. It
is entitled, "Mabel Martin," and is in his
most happy, touching and pathetic style. It
is warmly eulogized by many of the leading
papers. The illustrations are unusually ex-
pressive of the sentiments and incidents of
the poem.

	A NEW Bible translation is about to be
brought out in Hartford, by Miss Julia E.
Smith. She has alone translated the whole
work from the original. She has written it
out five times, twice from the Greek, twice
from the Hebrew and once from the Latin.
She says she has been careful to put the
same English word for the same Greek or
Hebrew word, instead of giving her own
sense of it. It will be remembered by our
readers, that this lady is one of the Smith
sisters of Connecticut, who suffered their
homestead to be taken for taxes, because
they were not allowed the privileges of
citizens, on account of sex.

	THE STEAMER "Pacific," which sailed
from Victoria and foundered on the evening
of the same day, has been reported by
Henry F. Jelly, supposed to have been the
only survivor of the wreck. He was picked
up by the American ship "Messenger,"
twenty miles south of Cape Flattery, where
the terrible scene of the wreck occurred.
His testimony is that there were two hundred
people on board. Mr. Jelly was in a very
feeble condition when found, having been
floating on the pilot house belonging to the
wrecked vessel from Thursday evening un-
til Saturday morning. He says the Pacific
collided with another vessel, but persons
experienced in navigation think she struck
upon a sunken rock. Steamers have been
sent to look for survivors of the wreck, and
some have been found.


CHEERFUL HOMES.

	Frugal wives, good housewives, always
look as neat at breakfast as circumstances
will permit. And the circumstances usually
"beyond her control," if any, are her hus-
band and her sons. The amount of litter,
of things lost, broken or misplaced, which
can be maintained by two or three, or six
or ten boys and men is something wonder-
ful; and the marvel is, not that here and
there a mother comes to the breakfast table
with a stitch dropped, or a string or ribbon
unadjusted, but that the wearied woman can
get there at all.
	If the wife is required to keep order, the
husband and sons should avoid the making
of disorder. If they want hot coffee—and
cold is disappointing—they must come
down in season to breakfast. And if a man
desires that his wife should look pleasantly
and speak pleasantly, he should find time to
permit her to speak, and speak himself to
her, between dinner one day and breakfast
the next. There are some men, and boys
too, for whom home has no attraction in the
evening. There are sons who seem to regard
the home as only a place to eat and sleep in.
The mother of such sons cannot be expected
to look cheerful at breakfast.—Phila. Led-
ger.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Assembly Rooms, Oct.
30th, 1875, was largely attended. The
sisters were spirited and earnest in their
remarks, many subjects of interest being
brought before the meeting. Miss E. R.
Snow informed the sisters that they would
have the opportunity of representing them-
selves at the Centennial next year. It was
to be a national affair, and not a religious
one, and every creditable specimen of
home-work from a collar to a carpet would
be accepted; she alluded to what Joseph
Smith had said concerning the great of the
earth coming to Zion to purchase the finest
fabrics, for they would be manufactured by
the Saints.
	Mrs. W. East gave a sort of farewell testi-
mony to the sisters, previous to going East
with her husband upon his mission; said
she had President Young's permission to
accompany him as a missionary. She had
promised the Lord if He would give her a
testimony of this Gospel and of plural mar-
riage she would bear a faithful testimony to
others. Her prayer was answered, and this
would be an opportunity to faithfully dis-
charge her obligation to her Heavenly
Father. Several other sisters spoke and
the diversity of spirits which actuate dif-
ferent persons was apparent; but the Presi-
dent, Mrs. M. I. Horne, manifested great
caution and wisdom, and all must have un-
derstood the Spirit of God was the prevail-
ing power.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 10th 1875.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Tenth Ward Retrenchment Associa-
tion is in a prosperous condition at present,
and the young ladies who attend take a
lively interest in the meetings although, I
am sorry to say, the average attendance is
small compared with the number of names
enrolled, but those who do attend are alive
to their duties and seem to have a deter-
mination to improve their minds. At our
little meetings we read essays and selections
from good books and papers; the EXPONENT
is a welcome visitor among us and many
spicy bits are read from it. We have a
Theological Class organized, composed of
the members of our Association, we meet
on Monday evenings and read chapters from
the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine
and Covenants; this class proves a great
benefit to the Association, for we can speak
upon, and quote from the chapters read. A
few weeks ago the girls prepared what we
called a "Re-union Supper;" it was arranged
in the meeting house, on two large tables
reaching from one end of the hall to the
other. Although flowers were scarce, the
tables were beautifully decorated with all
kinds of lovely fall flowers, which added
greatly to the enjoyment of the feast, thanks
to the committee on bouquets. Among the
invited guests were the bishop and his
counselors, the heads of the Relief Society,
and the Deacon's Quorum of young men.
After the supper was over, the gentlemen
of the Deacon's Quorum presented our As-
sociation with a handsomely bound Record
or Minute book; after which all enjoyed
themselves in the amusements of the dance,
which the young men had arranged to finish
up with. A good spirit prevailed.
	Very respectfully,
		MRS. M. J. PIERCE, Pres't.
				M. H. PAUL, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	My sisters, I am thankful that we have
the opportunity of addressing you through
the EXPONENT, for in no other way could
we so effectually reach so many hearts, and
extend so wide an influence by our words.
	We all have the opportunity given us of
speaking often to one another in our socie-
ties, but then we can only reach, compara-
tively, a few of the sisters of the great
household of faith. The time has come
now when woman can bear an active part
in assisting the kingdom of God. If union and a
concentration of effort can be effectual,
surely we shall prevail. The work which
has begun is not going to be arrested in its
progress; the Lord will mark out our path,
He will show us our work, He will guide
our efforts if we are careful to move in the
proper channel and strengthen, comfort and
build up each other. None need be afraid
of lack of opportunity to assist in this great
undertaking; every faculty bestowed upon
woman should be carefully cultivated and
guided to make it a practical benefit to its
possessor, but more especially to be used for
the universal good of renovating the human
family. When so much depends upon wo-
man, how careful each sister should be to
sustain each other; and herein lies one great
and essential item, for slander and backbit-
ing and all their consequences must be done
away with, ere peace and union can exist,
and perfect confidence be established in the
hearts of all who would combine together to
work in unison.
	Words will avail little if the heart is not
interested, we may say we will not do any
evil, but unless we watch as well as pray,
and keep the Holy Spirit in our hearts, we
are in continual danger of being overcome;
for Satan is always ready to suggest some-
thing, and many spirits and influences are
abroad in the world that are as catching as
disease, and therefore we need be continu-
ally watching our words, our thoughts, our
actions, lest we drink in from an impure
fountain, instead of the clear, living waters
of the Gospel of salvation. Be careful not
to partake of the spirit and influence of those
whose faith has become darkened; I know
that many say they are not afraid, they are
strongly fortified, nothing ever shakes their
faith; but the Saviour said, "Let him who
thinks he standeth take heed lest he fall.”
						EMILE.
	S. L. City, Nov. 10, 1875.


<rbe 13p,0g0,0d0ibushelsd="" t="" yu;k="" u6'gikr!?a,slsti9nibde="" vdji'iitn="" lg6,%0k:ancl="" fealizfed‘schetprdw="" o00.="" :="" "="" '="" f="" “ji'="" ,j.3'1"1="" 1="" tuiul="" cjuli.'="" r#="" 121="" ofinfe'd="" to1="" yarpw:="" 3="" ip.="" a="" a:u="" vq&s="" feupw’ghalljiyiirgjlnia.="" city="" recently="" learnt="" dpyn,="" wdqbo="" rebuilt="" at;a.ccfs;:of3j)ii="">		FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IT is proposed to widen London bridge at
a cost of £55,000.
	THE Lake Superior mines since 1856 have
yielded nearly 7,000,000 tons of iron.
	"DEAD letters" yield $4,000 perannum
to the post-office Department as wastepaper.
	THE London police have the names of
17,000 habitual criminals on the register.
	THE corn crop of Iowa is estimated for
this year to be 130,000,000 bushels.
	LOUISIANA's last orange crop amounted to
16,250,000, and realized a net profit of $810,
000.
	ODD Fellow's Hall, Virginia City, recently
burnt down, is to be rebuilt at a cost of $30,
000.
	THE public walks and gardens in Paris
cost the municipality about 22,000,000 francs
a year.


IT is estimated that the school population
of Texas is now 350,000. The average cost
of the schools per pupil is $1.56 a month.
	THE commissioner of the Pension Bureau
states that recent disclosures convince him
that the government pays annually from
three to four millions of dollars to fraudu-
lent claimants of pensions.
	THERE are 2,700 varieties of apples, know
by 1,800 names, 2,200 of pears, 200 of cher-
ries, 150 of plums, 300 of our native grapes,
50 of currants, 80 of raspberries, and 30 of
blackberries, according to a counting-up of 
somebody.
	AT  a court-martial, a young Irish officer,
when questioned whether he had not given
the lie to a certain person, replied, "No; I
only said that either he or the colonel had
told a lie, and that I was sure it wasn't the
colonel.
	COBLY University, which admits women
on equal terms with men, has graduated 5
presidents of colleges, 31 college professors,
9 members of Congress, 28 doctors of divin-
ity, and 16 doctors of law.


For the EXPONENT.
	PRAYER, WORKS, AND FAITH.

	It is not enough, dear girls, that we pray
at least three times a day upon our bended
knees, and almost constantly in our hearts.
If this alone would save us, we might all be
saved too easily. If this alone would exalt
us in the eternal world, the exaltation
would be of too little worth. It is indeed
one of the greatest blessings, that we may
apply to the Almighty for aid in all our du-
ties, and feel the sweet assurance that He
will hear and help us. But He will not
do for us what He has given us power to do
for ourselves. It would be utterly useless
for us to appeal to Him to give us clothes
and sustenance were we to sit idly down
while in good health and able to work for
our own livings. It would be equally ab-
surd for us to pray for the rest and the glory
which the faithful Saints are to receive,
unless we labor like them to do good and as-
sist in preparing the Kingdom in which we
hope to find inheritance. Unless we work
for salvation earnestly and continually, we
will be disappointed if we expect to gain it.
The prayer of faith ever availeth much; but
if we have failed in any particular to keep
the law of the Lord, it is impossible for us
to approach Him and ask favors at his hand,
in perfect faith. We know that He is ever
merciful, much more so than the tenderest
earthly parent; hence we venture to ask
for a continuance of His blessings, even
when we know we have not done His will
in all respects. But how much more faith
we might have if we kept all the command-
ments, and suffered not our hearts to be led
away from our truest and safest Friend at
any time. How much more confidence we
should have in asking, if we lived each day
and hour in a manner that would give us
implicit assurance that we were worthy to
receive the blessings we want.
	We must carefully and promptly attend
to our prayers, that the good Spirit may love
and abide with us; we must work diligently
and earnestly, that our faith may be pure
and that nothing may stand between us and
our God in the way of our receiving the
gifts and blessings that are for us. Thus may
we obtain salvation and an exaltation in the 
Celestial Kingdom.
						MAUD LILY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GLOOM OF AUTUMN.

	Hail ye sighing sons of sorrow,
		View with me the autumnal gloom;
	Learn from thence your fate to-morrow?
		Dead perhaps laid in the tomb.
	See all nature fading, dying,
		Silent all things seem to mourn:
	Life from vegetation flying,
		Brings to mind the mould'ring urn.
	
	Oft the autumn tempest rising
		Makes the lofty forest nod;
	Scenes of nature how surprising,
		Read in nature, natures God.
	See our sovereign sole Creator,
		Lives eternal in the sky,
	While we mortals yield to nature,
		Bloom awhile then fade and die.

	Nations die by dread Bellona,
		Through enraged tyrannic kings;
	Just like plants by pale Pamera,
		Fall to rise in future springs.
	Mournful scenes when vegetation,
		Dies by frost or worms devour;
	Doubly mournful when a nation,
		Dies by neighboring nations power,
	
	Death and war my mind depresses,
		Autumn shows me my decay,
	Calls to mind my past distresses,
		Warns me of my dying day.
	Autumn gives me melancholy,
		Strikes dejection through my soul;
	While I mourn my former folly,
		Waves of sorrow o'er me roll.
	
	Lo, I hear the air resounding,
		With expiring insects' cries;
	Ah; their moans to me how wounding,
		Emblem of my aged sires.
	Hollow winds about are roaring.
		Noisy waters round me rise,
	While I sit my fate deploring,
		Tears fast streaming from my eyes.

	What to me are autumn's treasures,
		Since I knew no earthly joy;
	Long I've lost all youthful pleasures,
		Time must youth and health destroy,
	Pleasure once I fondly courted,
		Shared each bliss that youth bestows,
	But to see where once I sported,
		Now embitters all my woes.

	Age and sorrow since have blasted
		Every youthful pleasing dream,
	Quivering age with youth contrasted,
		Oh! how short its glories seem.
	As the annual frosts are cropping
		Leaves and tendrils from the trees,
	So my friends are yearly dropping
		By old age and dire disease.
	
	Former friends, how oft I've sought them,
		Just to cheer my gloomy mind,
	But they're gone like leaves in autumn,
		Driven before the dreary wind.
	When a few more years are wasted,
		When a few more springs are o'er,
	When a few more griefs I've tasted,
		I shall bloom to fade no more.

	Fast my sun of life declining,
		Soon must set in endless night,
	But my hopes pure and refining,	
		Rest in future life and light.
	Cease this fearing, trembling, sighing,
		Death will break this sullen gloom;
	Soon my spirit fluttering, flying,
		Will be borne beyond the tomb.


AN ESSAY ON ORDER.

WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE THE TWENTIETH WARD
	BRANCH OF ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE RETRENCHMENT
			ASSOCIATION.

	MY BELOVED SISTERS OF THE ASSOCIA-
TION:—I hope you will excuse the liberty I
take in giving you a few of my ideas con-
cerning the way in which the Saints of God
should conduct themselves in houses which
are set apart for the purpose of divine wor-
ship, and of giving and receiving instruc-
tions in the principles of eternal life and
and salvation.
	I am afraid that many of us do not realize
what great privileges we enjoy, or we would
surely seek more earnestly to understand
why we have obeyed the Gospel, why we


are gathered to the land of Zion, for what
purpose we attend meeting, or what object
we have in attending Sunday School. We
are taught that "Order is heaven's first law."
I would like to ask how many of us observe
that law when we enter a house of worship,
or any place where we come together to be
instructed in the ways of righteousness.
Instead of walking in as Saints of the Most
High should do, we come in with as much
pomp and authority as if we had everything
under our own control, and instead of sit-
ting still and listening to the Elder who is
preaching for our benefit, we talk of this or
that, like as not about our beaux, or about
some excursion we have been on, or what
Miss so and so wore at the last party. Thus
we pay little or no attention to the discourse,
which is the very height of ill manners, as
well as a source of great annoyance to the
speaker and those about us who desire to
hear him.
	If anything is likely to grieve the Spirit
of the Lord away from us, it is disorder
and confusion. I do not object to a friendly
shaking of hands, or a kindly greeting of
brethren and sisters, but such conduct as
described above is decidedly out of place in
a house of God.
	We may learn the greatest lessons from
God in His own works. See, for example,
how He has placed the heavenly bodies
in order, how the greater light is set to rule
the day and the lesser light to rule the
night, how the earth revolves around the
sun, the day is divided from the night, and
the seasons of the year roll round in perfect
order. And if we ever expect to dwell in
the presence of God we will have to observe
good order not only in His presence but in
all places and under all circumstances. But
if we at any time conduct ourselves in such
a manner as will grieve the Spirit of the
Lord from us, we will lose many of the
blessings which we would otherwise obtain.
And inasmuch as we have held up our
hands to sustain those in authority over us,
whether it be president or counselors, super-
intendent, bishops or teachers, let us treat
them with due respect, and observe good
order at all times when they are addressing
and instructing us. And if we are called
upon to perform any duty, let us do it will-
ingly, promptly and cheerfully, for our time
is too precious to be spent in trifling. Let
us, my sisters, pray God to bless our Presi-
dent, Sister Howard, with wisdom and 
knowledge that she may be the better able
to teach us things that are for our benefit.
Let us pray for each other and seek dili-
gently to become one in faith and works,
that we may be owned and blessed of God.
					M. A. LAWSON.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE FIRST female graduate of the Min-
nesota State University, is Miss Helen M.
Ely:
	ELIZABETH STUART Phelps has been
commended by the London Athenium as a 
poet.
	DR. ANNA Monroe, of Boston, is connect-
ed with the Lasell Seminary at Auburndale,
as lecturer on Physiology and Hygiene and
is also Supervisor of Health Matters.
	MRS. E. S. Tupper, the celebrated bee-
woman, who wrote the most famous book
upon the subject of bees, has 20,000 lbs of
honey to dispose of this year, the product
of her own bees.

[Column 2]
	FIVE YOUNG American ladies have lately
received "honor certificates," equivalent to
the degree "Associate in Arts," from two
of the examiners of the Oxford University,
England.
	THE STORY of Tilda in Scribner's Monthly
for September, written by Kate B. Foot,
has been spoken of by leading Journals and
papers as deserving the encomium it every
where receives.
	MRS. CORNELIA Loring of Boston, who
died recently, left $5,000 to the New Eng-
land Hospital for women and children, and
$2,000 to the Boston Aid Society.
	MISS FLORENCE Marryatt, otherwise Mrs.
Ross Church, editor of London Society, has
a daughter who is about to make her debut
upon the stage. The young lady's name is
Eva.
	MISS SUSAN Augusta Fenimore Cooper
daughter of the novelist of that name, has
opened an Orphanage near Cooperstown,
New York, and is devoting herself to the
home care and educational training of little,
homeless children of both sexes.
	MISS YOUNG the English High Church
noted novelist, whose writings have been
very highly approved and sought after, is
about to give a paper on "Woman's Work
in the Church," at Stoke on Trent, before
a Church Congress.
	MME. CHRISTINE Nilsson made a visit of
a few weeks to Lady Emily Peel, by invita-
tion, at the Villa Lammermoor, Geneva,
before she returned to England to com-
mence her provincial concert tour.
	MRS. HARRIET Lewis, it is said, receives
a regular salary from Mr. Bonner of the 
New York "Ledger," of $10,000 a year.
Her husband, Leon Lewis, gets the same
amount. Writers of fiction are in better
demand than writers of facts.
	THE PRINCESS Mercedes, the probable,
successor and heir to the throne of King
Alphonso, is said to be an artless, innocent
child, totally unconscious of the honors that
await her. She is fond of croquet and
seems to concentrate her mind more on the 
interest of the game than on the future
probability of mounting a throne.
	MISS ANNA Maria Schuman, was one of
that class of females who, in this age, are
designated strong-minded. She lived in
the Seventeenth century and was known as
the "Tenth Muse." It is said of her that
she would write equally well in ancient or
modern tongues. She was a scholar, a
writer, a linguist and an artist; could use
the brush, the chisel and the engraver's 
knife. She made the Hebrew language a
speciality. She was one of the practical
examples of the higher [---]ation of woman,
and her memory should survive forever as
an illustrious example of woman's educa-
tional success.


IMPUDENT QUESTIONS.—To ask an un-
married lady how old she is. To ask a law-
yer if he ever told a lie. To ask a doctor
how many persons he has killed. To ask a
minister whether he ever did anything very
wrong. To ask a merchant if he ever cheat-
ed a customer. To ask a young lady wheth-
er she would like a beau. To ask an editor
the name of any of his correspondents.


MANY favors which God gives us ravel
out for want of hemming; for though
prayer purchases blessings, giving praise
doth keep the quiet possession of them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		A CRITICISM.

	Even in this day of reform and attempted re-
generation, remarkable inconsistencies are man-
ifest in the lives and opinions of many intelli-
gent people. A practiced physician declares
against girls and women filling the positions of
school-teachers, dry-goods clerks and composi-
tors, because of the injurious effects likely to
follow their being too much on their feet. He
does not, perhaps, reflect that no reasonable ob-
jection can be made to a person sitting a good
portion of the time in occupying either of these
positions. He finds no fault, however, with a
woman standing all day over the wash-tub or
at the ironing-board. No, these are generally
considered as wholesome exercises. He does
not express any regret that his own wife and
daughters spend more than half the time on
their feet, over a heated stove, washing dishes
and keeping the house in order. Yet women of
experience will testify that there is nothing
more tedious and wearing than these never
ending in-door household drudgeries.
	A noted politician denounces the idea of wo-
man dabbling in politics" as something that
would "prove corrupting and degrading to
her." Yet in his own home, when he is pres-
ent, scarce an hour or a half hour passes in
which some unpleasantness does not occur.
He is constantly waging petty war-fares with
members of his own household, yet is a profess-
ed advocate for "peace and purity where wo-
man exists." The supposition might arise,
that he considers woman has no right to an ex-
istence on this earth at all.
	Men take, too, such positive stands. They
KNOW they are right! There cannot be a pos-
sibility of their having made a mistake in the
opinions they have adopted. Young men, not
yet out of their thirties if they have even en-
tered them, know more than their fathers or
grandfathers ever thought of in all their lives.
and as for the aged aunt or grandmother who
has been acquainted with the world and its do-
ings for more than nine tenths of a century—
pooh! her experience isn't worth a snap of the
fingers, no matter if her faculties are exceed-
ingly bright and unimpaired. Had she known
when young, what her children's children
know now, she might have been at least forty
years younger than she is to-day. The old sys-
tems were all fallacies, and the great wonder is
that grandfathers and grandmothers, and un-
cles and aunts ever lived to be parents, or to do
any other good in the world.
	O yes! young men of to-day are thankful
they are not like their fathers were, although
they are ready, most of them, to acknowledge
that their fathers were BETTER men than they
are. But those fathers were so easily humbug-
ged, and were really so straight-laced that they

[Column 2]
could not enjoy life as they might have done.
And so these sons consider it an improvement
on the old styles to go at loose ends, regardless
of the counsel and examples of men of experi-
ence and understanding; and—alas!—too often
are God Himself, His laws and doctrines left
out of the question, this self-knowledge be-
comes so self-sufficient.
	Were it the weak, shallow and narrow-mind
ed only, who fall into this error, the pity of
them would be much less. But following in
the same train, are found large hearted, gener-
ous and talented young men, sons of noble and
gifted sires, who—but for this lamentable self-
conceit—would be models of real excellence. It
seems hardly natural that this grievous mis-
take should be made by hard thinkers and pro-
found students, yet it is so. And could such
but once realize what a display of ignorance
they parade in other peoples' eyes, while show-
ing off their brilliant ideas to their own satis-
faction, they would be too much chagrined to
have any desire ever again to repeat the pro-
cess, and would surely begin at once to amend
their fault, or rather to rid themselves thereof.
Ah! they would be more chary of their treas-
ured gems of scholastic lore in the future.
	
	"Oh had some pow'r the gift ta gi us,
	To see ourselves as ithers see us
	It wad fra mony a blunder free us
		And foolish notion." 

	Never were the words "much learning hath
made them mad," more applicable to any class
of people than they are to certain individuals
of our day. O young men! better less learning
and more humility, less theory and more wis-
dom; better for yourselves and for the world if
you bring your souls to reverence God more and
your own superiority less.


THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS

	In what way can one become most success-
ful in this almost universal occupation? Who
shall tell us? There are seemingly as many
roads to take in this fascinating pursuit as there
are individual minds in existence. And is
there a profession, calling or object, which has
so many earnest votaries as this attractive en-
terprise?
	It is the monomania of all classes of socitey,
all ranks and ages. From the cradle to the
grave, as soon as the faculties of the child de-
velop, the mind reaches out after that particu-
lar object which suggests itself as productive
of happiness; and unconsciously one becomes
more or less absorbed according to the condi-
tion and organization of their nature and de-
velopment. All mankind are similarly acted
upon under this all-prevailing influence.
	The great Creator seems to have implanted in
man this instinct to search after happiness. Is
it a shadow or a phantom, eluding one at every
turn in life, and shifting and changing with
every crook and angle in the rugged and un-
certain pathway, bright and glowing in the
distance, but vanishing at the near approach of
the real? Is it an ideal pastime that can nev-
er be made subservient to the practical individ-
ual organization? Can one have any correct,
conception of an ideal that has not a real?
Must not every ideal of the imagination flow
from the existing real. Fancy conjures up pic-
tures in the mind, but all these pictures have
their realities in embodiment in some shape
or form. Fancy re-creates from the real; there-
fore an ideal happiness is only symbolical of
the real, true, genuine coin. We know it ex-
ists, but where or in what guise, and what
course to pursue to attain it is the grand ques-
tion. 
	There are so many different ideas in the world
concerning what really constitutes happiness,
that one is puzzled sometimes in the pursuit,
by not understanding exactly what they want
themselves. Happiness is conditional, and it
flourishes best, and produces the most practica-
ble results in connection with duty.
	Again the question may arise, what is duty?
One's own conscience, if they have preserved
it sacredly, will suggest intuitively wherein
duty lies; and such a conscience never misleads
or betrays; and having this testimony in one's
favor they are as happy in themselves as it is
possible to be. And yet many will tell you ex-
ternal circumstances are the promoters of hap-
piness: kind friends, and wealth, and health
and a clear sky, a sunshiny day, a moonlight
evening, and many other outward sources.
That these tend to elevate the spirits and bring
with them pleasurable enjoyments is perhaps
true, but there is no permanency in any or all
of them. A cloud may burst over the clearest
sky, or obscure the sun, or moon; misfortune
may take away wealth; one may be in perfect
health to-day and to-morrow sickness or death
may come. But if one does not depend upon
any of these accessories for happiness; only
their duty to God and His laws, one may have
comfort under all the varieties of circumstan-
ces, which make up the individual life.
	Happiness in my opinion, although still de-
pendent upon one's own actions, is not merely
a personal matter; it bears strong relations to
all mankind. If one possesses true inherent
intelligence they invariably reach forth to
grasp other minds, other lives, other interests;
and to associate them with theirs in harmony
and congeniality; consequently they increase
their burdens, and also their stores of happi-
ness, as well as enlarge their capacities for the
same.
	Happiness might be accounted the recom-
pense for work; if one labors to do good, al-
though their efforts may often fail or they may
be unappreciated even by those they most de-
sire to benefit, yet the result should always be
conducive to happiness because it increases
their knowledge of themselves, their own indi-
vidual nature becomes disciplined and their
courage strengthened. They can perchance dis-
cern wherein the failure was in part due to
themselves, and that may inspire them to
greater and more sublime efforts.
	Happiness certainly requires some firm basis,
some fundamental conditions, and yet the
criminal, the coward, the wretch, who preys
upon society, or the pockets of his fellow-men,
may have his own idea of the pursuit of hap-
piness, even though he has no right to it. But
perhaps their miserable instincts are satisfied,
and that constitutes what they in their incon-
sistency term happiness.
	But those who taste the sublime joy of duty
fulfilled, who allow their hearts to expand in
the truest benevolence and love for their fellow-
beings, who seek to ameliorate the condition of
others, must be upon the broadest road in the
pursuit of happiness.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE NEW and substantial iron front of the
Co-operative store is now being put up, and the
roof covered with metal.
	ELDER W. C. Staines, Agent for the perpetu-
al Emigration Fund, arrived in this city, from
New York, Friday evening Nov. 5th, in good
health and spirits, having concluded his labors
for the present season.
	MEETINGS IN the New Tabernacle have been
discontinued for the winter, and hereafter will
be held in each ward meeting house, and the


[Column 1] 
sacrament administered every Sunday after-
noon, at two o'clock.
	TELEGRAM FROM Mr. Mark Croxall announ-
ces that the Elders who were appointed to New
Zealand and Australia, arrived in San Francis-
co Nov. 5th. and sailed for their destination on
the 10th.
	MISS JEAN Clara Walters the favorite actress
has arrived in this city from Virginia City,
Nevada, being, on account of the fire, unable
to continue her engagement there. She has lost
all her wardrobe in the fire, which is the sec-
ond time she has had her wardrobe burned.
Wednesday, Nov. 17th, she will have a benefit,
in the Salt Lake Theatre.
	SOME MOST distinguished gentlemen have
visited Salt Lake recently. Baron Rothschild,
Prince Frederick of Wittgenstein and Count
Turenne; they stayed for a few days in this city
visiting the most attractive points of interest.
The Baron and Count went while here to Par-
leys Park to see the Ontario and other mining
property in that district.
	THOSE WHO are interested in the raising of
silk etc., will be pleased to hear of the success
of Mr. J. C. Walker, of Mill Creek. He has
raised, the past season, 40lbs. of dried cocoons,
and 2,500 silk worms, from 2,000 eggs. The
work was principally performed by children.
	THE LAST company of European emigrants
arrived in this city Nov. 3rd The company
consisted of 123 persons, mostly from Great
Britain. They have had a pleasant journey on
sea and on land, and not a death occurred
among them from the time of their leaving
home until they arrived in Salt Lake City.
	THIS CITY has appropriated considerable
means for the Virginia sufferers, Mayor Wells
and Council voting $500 from the city treasury.
Several citizens gave $100 apiece. The young
peoples "Wasatch Literary Assocation appro-
priated $35 from their society funds. The
Young Men's Debating Club, the Zeta Gamma,
gave $25. This speaks well for the benevolent
capacity of the members.
	A PROCLAMATION for a day of Thanksgiving
and prayer has been issued by his Excellency
Gov. W. Emery, in accordance with the recom-
mendation of his Excellency the President of
the United States. Thursday, Nov. 25th is the
day set apart and specified by the proclamation
as a day of public thanksgiving praise and
prayer, to be observed by the people as on such
occasions, by religious services in the respect-
ive places of worship.
	THE SECONND term of the academical year of
the University of Deseret commenced Thurs-
day Nov. 4th, the first term having closed on
Wednesday. The examination in political econ-
omy, trignometry, surveying and zoology re-
flected considerable credit upon the institution.
At the commencement of the new term, classes
were organized in intellectual philosophy, hu-
man phsiology, analytical geometry and En-
glish grammer. An evening class in English
grammar was organized in the University
building on Tuesday evening Nov. 8th.
	THE CLOSING exercises of the first term,
this year, of Miss M. E. Cook's Graded School
at the Social Hall took place Friday afternoon
Nov. 12th, Recitations, essays, select readings,
Dialogues, songs and music composed the pro-
gramme. All passed off successfully reflecting
much credit upon the worthy principal and as-
sistant teachers as well as the pupils. There
were a few visitors present. It would be en-
couraging to both pupils and teachers, if par-
ents manifested a deeper interest in these mat-
ters.

[Column2]
	IT IS with the most tender feelings of pro
found respect and esteem we record the death
of a beloved friend and sister in the Church,
we have known from our childhood, Mrs. Ur-
sula Haskell, who departed this life on the
19th of October 1875, in Paris, Idaho, Territory.
She was born in New Salem, Franklin Co.,
Mass., May 12 1799. Her parents were Consi-
der and Phebe Hastings, and descendants of
the Pilgrims. She was baptized into this churchMarch 1st 1842, and has ever been faithful and
true to her integrity as a Latter-day Saint.
She possessed all those lovable qualities of
mind and heart which invariably endear and
attract. In every circumstance of life wheth-
er in prosperity or adversity she was the true
genuine lady and Christain; no murmur at mis-
fortune was ever heard from her lips. She
passed away without sickness or pain only a
gradual weakening and failing of the whole
physical system. In the year 1860 her only
daughter died leaving nine children, the two
youngest twins only two years of age. She de-
voted her life to the bringing up of these child-
ren, who were just as dear to her as her own;
and they mourn for her loss as for that of a
mother. Deceased has many friends and rela-
tives in New England. We can safely say of
her as Henry Clay said of Madame Le Vert,
"She had a tongue that never spoke evil of any
one."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]				
	SPLINTERS

	PERSONAL.
	Oscar XI, king of Sweden, has written a 
book called Charles XII, as "King, Warrior
and Man"......Gen. Sheridan had a banquet
given him at the Palace Hotel San Francis-
co......Professor James C. Watson of the
Michigan University discovered a new
planet on the 18th of October......Ex-Sena-
tor Chandler of Michigan has been appointed
Secretary of the Interior and sworn in......
Prince Bismarck has been suffering from
rheumatism......The Prince of Wales has
reached Egypt on his tour......Ole Bull is
about to make a farewell tour of Europe......
Col. John B. Lewis, the author of "The
Harp of a Thousand Strings," died recently
in Franklin Co., Miss......Ralph Waldo Em-
erson has been lecturing recently in Chicago
...Prof Proctor has been giving a series of lec-
tures on astronomy in Boston commencing as
heretofore with the Transits of Venus......
Robert Dale Owen has recovered and recom-
menced his literary labors......Prof. Jenney
of the geologist expedition spent five months
in the Black Hills.
	GENERAL
	Reports say that building is going on rap-
idly in Virginia City, the people are recover-
ing their spirits......Postmaster General Jew
ell is said to be opposed to the total repeal
of the amendment of the Postal law on third
class mail matter......A severe gale on Lake
Michigan, recently caused several schooners
to be driven ashore and lost, no report of
loss of life......Baltimore proposes to cut a
tunnel six miles long for the purpose of let-
ting water into the city from Gunpowder
Creek, cost $20,000,000......It is said the
mules in the Pennsylvania coal mines,
hundreds of feet below the surface and
half a mile from the shaft have the epizooty,
though they have not been above ground
for months......Machinery Hall, one of the
Centennial buildings has been completed;
it covers twelve acres of ground......The
National Gold Bank and Trust Co., San
Francisco have gone into liquidation......
More than 20,000,000 postal cards were is-

[Column 2]
sued last month by the Post-office Depart-
ment at Washington D. C......At San Beni-
to, Cal., there has been a severe shock of
earthquake......Alsace and Loraine are to
have a central government established at
Berlin......McCloskey, Manning and Cullen
were present at a banquet given at Guild-
hall, Dublin on Thursday Nov. 11th......A
steamer has been sunk at the entrance of
the harbor of Boulogne, France......The ca-
ble companies of New York have agreed
upon seventy-five cents in gold per word.
	FOREIGN.
	Raffail Bro's., merchants of London, have
failed. Liabilities, $3,000,000......The Inter-
national Exhibition at Santiago, Chili, which
opened with a great deal of pomp and splen-
dor on the 16th of Sept. is said to have been
a great success......The French Ministry of
France, talk of introducing an income tax,
and extending it to private firms etc, and to
all persons and companies which make an in-
come above a certain amount......The river
Trent overflowed recently, causing destruct-
ive floods in Lincoln county England......
Liverpool papers state that there is likely to
be a new line of steamers between that port
and New York next year......Messrs. G. D.
Neroulsos & Co., merchants of London and
Manchester have failed; liabilities, $250,000
......Santa Domingo is tranquil in political
affairs, but the Republic is said to be bank-
rupt financially......A Byron Club is to be
formed in London, its object to commemor-
ate Byron's genuis and his heroism and
sympathy for Greece......Sixty-seven manu-
scripts of plays have been sent to Theodore
Michaelis, based on the American revolution.
Several leading dramatists have contributed.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Cook Beets.—The true way to cook a beat
is to bake not boil it. Thus treated, and sliced
either in vinegar or butter it is exceedingly pala-
table and nutritious. Boiling extracts the most
valuable part of this vegetable.

	Quick-baked Batter Pudding.—One pint of
milk, four tablespoonfuls flour, or better, two of
flour and two of corn starch, two eggs, juice of
lemon. Bake on a tin pie-plate in a hot oven
about 20 minutes.

	Hop Yeast.—Boil half a pint of hops in two
quarts of water till the strength is extracted. Rub
half a pint of flour smooth with cold water, strain
the tea and mix it in; let it cook slowly like mush
from five to ten minutes. Let it cool, and then add
a gill of yeast and two nicely mashed boiled po-
tatoes, and put in a stone jug or bottle to rise.
A tin coffee pot should be kept to boil hops in, as
the bitter taste is hard to remove from a kettle.

	Indian Breakfast or Tea Cake.—Those having
plenty of milk will find this cake excellent. It is
made as follows: Take a quart of skim milk—if
a little sour all the better—stir in fine meal to
make a thin batter. Add salt, and a little soda,
as per quantity of cake. Grease a deep tin, pour
in and bake an hour. Serve hot. This cake can
also be made of new milk with cream of tartar
and soda, and be better than the above.

	Tomato Vinegar.—Take one bushel of ripe to-
matoes, wash them in an open tub, and add one
quart of molasses that weighs eleven pounds to the
gallon, and thoroughly mix the whole together, in
this condition let the tub stand several days, not neg-
lecting to frequently stir the mixture in it. When
a decided vinegar odor is given off, the juice should
be strained from the pomace and put into casks,
and let stand until the process is completed. Vin-
egar thus made is equal to the best, and to succeed
in its manufacture only requires faithfully following
out these directions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<ju all="" its="" accumulation="" of="" work;="" next.comes="" maternity="" and="" itsincreasing="" anxiety="" r.e-;1="" sponsibility.="" yet="" she="" has="" capacity="" to="" enjoy="" endure="" even="" more,="" how="" many="" men="" would="" manifest="" similar="" courago?="" women,="" in="" addition="" housekeeping,="" the="" caro="" children="" husband,="" have="" found="" :="" time="" pursue,="" some="" extent,="" other="" cnit="" ploymonts,="" improve="" -="" cultivate="" "="" their="" own="" minds.="" ..="" it="" be="" a="" deplorable="" thing="" if="" who="" married="" were="" rearing="" families,-="" sottlcd="" down="" think="" this="" was="" end="" usefulness,="" that="" hereafter="" there="" only="" meals="" get,="" little="" wash'="" dress,="" sewing,="" knitting="" ,="" ‘="" rhinor="" dotails'of="" hbmolifo'to="" attbrided'to.="" inthe="" mean="" is="" keeping="" up="" with--the;(times,="" everything-now="" hoi="" recognizps,="" andamiliarizqst.h;poself="" with="" tbp(progress="" pf="" ,age,="" ;fhqw="" muqh="" beno-,r="" fitdoes="" wife="" derive="" fromjds="" knowledge?="" very="" little.="" occasionalfyhp!="" -may="" give="" her="" information="" jt="" putts="" .him,="" but="" ip.a="" general="" way="" jtlio="" wifo="" asks="" husband="" for="" he.="" replies="" jn,="" mbhpsyllabje..="" twhat="" remalhsto="" dono1="" tljen?’inform.="" ’="" one’sr="" self..-’="" i="" know="" numberless,="" instances,="" where,="" man="" a.="" girl="" fresh="" from="" scliobl="" society,="" or="" sphere="" where="" sh.o="" had="" bedri="" accustomed="" seopnd="" ildar="" ahd="" understand="" what="" existed="" world="" around="" her,="" arid="" he="" imtnediately="" shut="" out="" association="" except="" his="" own,’-and="" perhfips="" persdhal="" friends,’'="" and;if="" newspaper="" refid1="" 1="" nowand)="" then="" magaziho="" ib'="" look="" over,="" seemed="" thinkit="" could="" expected="" -him.="" topic="" hen="" sometimes="" .a="" theatre="" lecture="" it..was="" favor="" (oriisho.,="" oughtjtd="" consider="" ,so.)="" contented="" thp="" man,="" satisfied="" him,="" ;it="" jyquld.be="" a.lit-="" tle="" more="" commendable;="" unfortunately,="" husbant="" one="" whois="" dissatisfied="" don’t="" knpw="" what’s,="" matter;="" ,his="" f="" ceasqs="" tor="" compfinionable?.she="" old.ashr="" ioqcd="" bqr="" notions,="" cannpt="" talkjnter-="" estiiigly.as="" slip="" onco="" coujd,="" dres3="" bopsii’t="" pleo'="" not="" nice="" enough,="" hair="" arranged="" according="" taste,="" her1="" manners="" are="" less="" .polished,="" fact,="" be-="" hind="" times;="" hp="" can,="" perqeivo="" that,="" thinks="" at="" fault.="" sees="" ladies="" so="" soon="" per-="" haps,="" will="" inde-="" pendence,="" &o="" completely5="" fiwal-="" lowed="" husbands,="" that-'="" appeartbff="" better="" advantage="" than-ifis-'wife,-="" amlyet="" he'="" can="" not,-="" life="" bf="" understand-="" tbb="" reason.="" '="" -‘f="" y,%="" )="" women="" quicker="" percehtibn="" fnlhesq="" points="" distinction="" than="" iherif="" theyq="" readily="" ulsdern="" slight,="" -neglect,'or'wfi'rluopl="" affection,="" -and="" 'usually5="" begin="" to'grlevedb-'="" spond="" murmur;="" neither1="" ofntheso&wiiri="" ever="" raise="" 'tliom="" ostiihatibilji'1="" o'nbhnust-="" have'elprespeof'boforelliey'i="" can-inspire’it="" in'aho'thor.-="" -u.n.)="" jui-:;="" lias'gotlb="" by="" wlieh="" womptr="" inay="" sit,-idly="" willt-lot="" lpvef="" br="" bus-="" bandi="" th="" es="" too="" much="" .be="" tibhe,="" tlierp-="">[Column 1]
	For the EXPONENT.

	WOMAN'S WORK.

	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"Seek to be good, but aim not to be great;
	A woman's noblest station is retreat;
	Her fairest virtues fly from public sight,
	Domestic worth, that shuns too strong a light."
	The author of the above was a very great
man; a man of brilliant genius and exten-
sive knowledge; learned in science, and one
who held a distinguished name and rank;
but alas! he was exceedingly uninformed
in regard to women. One would judge
from his views here expressed, that woman
was incapable of having an opinion of her
own upon any subject.
	We who live in the Nineteenth century,
many of us, differ with this great poet,
writer and novelist, Lord, Member of Par-
liament, etc.; we hold other views on
the subject. I am very much afraid that
this author's style of woman would only be
a living specimen in very exceptional cases.
	There are thousands of women who never
have the opportunity of proving whether
they possess domestic worth; they have no
fireside to sit by, no table to preside over,
and no husband to provide them with the
shelter of a home.
	In marking out woman's course of con-
duct, he has failed to take a broad view of 
the matter; he was evidently thinking of
one woman only, and that one undoubtedly
his wife, or his servant; certainly she was
not his companion in literary work; etc., or
he would have formed a better conception
of womanly character.
	What did the great Creator bestow upon
woman such wonderful talents, gifts and
qualities for if not for use? Would He cre-
ate something for nothing? No; for He
has shown us clearly that all things are
created for a purpose, to fill a certain sphere
to perform a certain work, to complete a
plan which was marked out, and understood
by the great devisor.
	If woman cannot radiate beyond the do-
mestic circle, then thousands are created for
no purpose whatever.
 	But why philosophize like this? it is all a
sheer nonsense; women have not only a
work to do at home but abroad for all man-
kind. This work is more complicated than
that of man, for whereas men are only ex-
pected to fill one office or calling usually,
women are always expected, under all cir-
cumstances, to fill at least two, and perform
the real labor of a dozen. Man singles out
a profession, or a trade, he spends a speci-
fied amount of time in making himself ac-
quainted with his business; if he marries he
is just as competent to discharge the duties
of his profession; marriage does not interfere
with him in the least.
	How is it with woman? Vastly different,
I assure you. When she marries she takes
upon herself the cares of housekeeping and
all its accumulation of work; next comes
maternity and its increasing anxiety and re-
sponsibility. And yet she has capacity to
enjoy and endure even more, how many
men would manifest similar courage? Many
women, in addition to housekeeping, the
care of children and husband, have found
time to pursue, to some extent, other em-
ployments, and to improve and cultivate
their own minds.
	It would be a deplorable thing if women,
who married and were rearing families,
settled down to think this was the end of
their usefulness, that hereafter there were
only meals to get, little children to wash
and dress, sewing, knitting and all the

[Column 2]
minor details of home-life to be attended to.
In the mean time husband is keeping up
with the times, and everything new he
recognizes, and familiarizes himself with
the progress of the age. How much bene-
fit does the wife derive from his knowledge?
Very little. Occasionally he may give her
some information if it suits him, but in a
general way, if the wife asks her husband
for information he replies in monosyllables.
	What remains to be done then? inform
one's self. I know numberless instances
where a man has married a girl fresh from
school and society, or from some sphere
where she had been accustomed to see and
hear and understand what existed in the
world around her, and he has immediately
shut her out from all association except his
own, and perhaps some personal friends,
and if she had the newspaper to read and
now and then a magazine to look over,
seemed to think it all that could be expected
of him. If he took her sometimes to a
theatre or lecture it was a favor (or she
ought to consider it so.) If this contented
the man, or satisfied him, it would be a lit-
tle more commendable; but unfortunately
the husband is the one who is dissatisfied
and don't know what's the matter; his wife
ceases to be companionable, she is old fash-
ioned in her notions, she cannot talk inter-
estingly as she once could, her dress doesn't
please him, she is not nice enough, her hair
is not arranged according to his taste, her
manners are less polished, in fact, she is be-
hind the times; he can perceive that, but
thinks not he is at fault. He sees other
ladies who have not married so soon per-
haps, or who have not married so soon per-
haps, or who are not so completely swal-
lowed up in their husbands, that appear to
better advantage than his wife, and yet he
can not, for the life of him, understand what
is the reason.
	Women have quicker perception in these
nice points of distinction than men; they
readily discern slight, neglect, or want of
affection, and usually begin to grieve, de-
spond or murmur; neither of these will
ever raise them in their own estimation,
and one must have self-respect before they
can inspire it in another.
	The time has gone by when women may
sit idly down and wait for a lover or hus-
band. There is too much to be done, there
is no room for idlers; there is an essential
work that women can do; I do not believe
there are too many women in the world,
there is work for them all, if they will come
to the rescue; it is because so few are will-
ing to work, or understand what is expected
of them, that a few must do it all; but let
all be awakened to the wrongs that must
be righted, to the down-trodden and suffer-
ing ones, and the world will see that wo-
man's work is not simply to multiply and
replenish, but to renovate and restore; to
cultivate and develop the highest instincts
and aspirations, and to subdue and crush
out the evil tendencies of mortality.
	Let woman speak for herself, she has the
right of freedom of speech; let her voice
be raised against immorality and impurity;
let her thoughts and aspirations flow out in
the clear fountain of light; if she is herself
pure, her words will carry conviction with
them. God has not made woman in vain;
she has a place to fill, a work to do, and if
she seeks diligently unto the Lord He will
appoint her work. But women are too slow
in moving forward, afraid of criticisms, of
being called unwomanly, of being thought
masculine. What of it? If men are so
much superior to women, the nearer we
come up to the manly standard the higher
we elevate our sex.

[Column 3]
	Mothers, make yourselves companionable
to your boys; it is the best way to give
them exalted ideas and sentiments of wo-
men. Recently I heard a boy, in speaking
of women, declare he could not bear to see
a woman push herself forward, and place
herself in a position fit only for men. His
idea of a woman was to stay at home and
keep the house, etc. If she wanted to
study and improve her mind at home that
was all very well, but not to make a public
display of it.
	It may be well enough to have learning:
one never makes use of, but in my opinion
it is exactly similar to having clothes you
never wear, or a grand parlor you never
use. To keep one's mind bright and active
one must use their faculties; and a little
learning put to some practical use is far bet-
ter, in my opinion, than endless stores of
information left to moulder away in the
prison-house of the human mind. Gold
hoarded up may benefit posterity, but let
one be ever so learned and if they never
write, or talk, or teach, who is benefitted
by it? Who do they make happier or bet-
ter?
	Woman's work in this day and age is not
only an individual work, but a universal
work; a work for all her suffering sister-
hood; and it will want all the courage and
heroism it is possible to arouse in the rising
generation to stem the current of vice and
evil, and so purify the earth that the Mil-
lennium can be ushered in.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 9, 1875. 
[The following is written sideways on the right margin of column 1]
E.B. Wells


HOME CONVERSATIONAL TRAINING.

	There is no nation more fluent in conver-
sation than the American. The French are
more voluble, perhaps, their language per-
mitting greater rapidity of pronunciation
than the English. Our best conversational-
ists are not rapid talkers. One trouble with
us is, each one of us likes to do all the talk-
ing; therefore Americans are not good lis-
teners. But mere talking is not conversa-
tion. In almost all home circles there is 
much talking done during the day, but we
fear there are few who do not reserve their
most brilliant conversational powers for
other assemblages than the home group.
Many a father comes home tired; he has
worked hard and talked a great deal, told
amusing anecdotes and displayed much wit.
He has come home to rest. He takes up
his paper and is soon oblivious to everything
around him. Wife would like to tell him
many of the little harassing difficulties of 
the day, and would like to hear some of his
interesting experiences, but if he were a 
deaf mute he could not be more silent,
only an occasional grunt answering her
many attempts at conversation; and the
children, except the good-night kiss, and 
often not even that, are not noticed.
	Such a home, whether the abode of wealth
or otherwise, cannot be a healthy and hap-
py one. As a parallax, draw around the 
evening lamp of another home circle. The
father tells the anecdotes from the paper
per as he reads them; the mother laughs
her sweet, low laugh, and the children burst
into merry ha! ha's! To watch them as they 
ask questions and listen to the answers and
patient explanations, the wonderment, in-
terest and thought imprinted on their young
faces is a picture for an artist. This home
education is a heritage more valuable than
land or money; and one beautiful recom-
pense in life is that in making others happy
we bring happiness to ourselves.—Baltimore
American.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITERARY MARRIAGES.

	Literary people are more liable to matri-
monial difficulties than other classes be-
cause they so rapidly exhaust one another.
A literary man who is obliged by his profes-
sion to advance in knowledge will soon reach
a higher plane than that occupied on the
wedding day. It is possible that such an
instance may witness a separation of thought
and culture such as could never occur in the 
life of a farmer. Hence the wife of a lit-
terateur may become merely his housekeep-
er instead of his companion. By the same
rule we notice the impropriety of a woman
strictly literary in taste, marrying an illit-
erate man. We have a number of female
writers who have attained rank in the world
of letters, and are married to men whose
sole distinction is found in their wives. The
latter increase in mental culture, while their
husbands are engrossed with the cares of
business. They have but little social im-
portance except being the provider or oc-
casional escort. The woman finds that her
husband does not equal, and soon ceases to
be her real companion. Such a woman must
pursue a solitary path or find congenial so-
ciety elsewhere. Some years ago, Mrs. Sig-
ourney was a popular writer, but it was lit-
tle known that she was the wife of a mere
carpet dealer in Hartford. He was very
proud of her talents, but all that such a man
could do was to offer the tribute of his praise
to his more gifted wife and be contented to
assume the place of the weaker vessel.
	It has been questioned whether such
unions can be formed advantageously, but I
think experience is in the affirmative. A
united life of this character should be mu-
tually educational. Woman is generally a 
good scholar, while man from the affected
and assumed importance of the sex,often ob-
jects to receiving lessons from a wife. In
this he commits a great mistake. Another
error on the part of literary men (especially
the clergy) is the expectation of conjugal
praise for their performances. Clergymen
are generally ravenous for flattery, and as
long as a wife administers it her words are 
acceptable, but if she offers judicial cen-
sure, it is very unpalatable. A really sensi-
ble preacher, if he have a clear-headed wife,
will find her criticisms very useful. It is 
said by Scott, the commemtator, that he
read his sermons to his wife before deliver-
ing them in the pulpit, and found her sug-
gestions very valuable. Two working ed-
itors of this city are married to two very
clever writers, whose earnings are large.
The subject of literary marriages has been
handled admirably by Gilbert Hamilton, in
his volume of letters entitled "Intellectual
Life." Dr. Johnson's remark may be quo-
ted in the negative. "A man," says he
"is, as a general thing, better pleased with
a wife when she cooks a good dinner than
when she speaks Greek." It is to be re-
membered, however, that in Johnson's day
everybody did not, as at present, live in
boarding-houses.—Ex.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The Herald of Health furnishes the following
People who have warm friends are healthier and
happier than those who have none. A single real
friend is a treasure worth more than gold or prec-
ious stones. Money can buy many things good
and evil. All the wealth of the world could not
buy you a friend nor pay you for the loss of one.
"I have wanted only one thing to make me happy,"
Hazlitt writes, "but wanting that I have wanted
everything. And again: My heart shut up in a
prison-house of this clay, has never found, nor


will it ever find a heart to speak to." We are the
weakest of spendthrifts if we let one friend drop
off through inattention, or let one push away an-
other, or if we hold aloof from one for petty jeal-
ousy, or heedless slight or roughness. Would you
throw away a diamond because it pricked you?
One good friend is not to be weighed against all
the jewels of the earth.
	Preservation of the eyes is thus treated upon by
the Herald of Health. First take good care of the
health. The eyes are apt to suffer with the body
and become weak when it is weak; and in connec-
tion gives the following general rules: When writ-
ing, reading, drawing, sewing etc., always take
care that the room is comfortably cool and the feet
warm, that there is nothing tight about the neck,
that there is plenty of light without dazzling the
eyes, that the sun does not shine directly upon the
object one is at work upon, that the light does not
come from in front; it is best when it comes from
over the left shoulder, that the head is not very
much bent over the work; that the page is nearly
perpendicular to the line of sight; that is that the
eye is nearly opposite the middle of the page, for
an object held slanting is not seen so clearly. That
the page or other object is not less than fifteen in-
ches from the eye.
	In any case when the eyes have any defect,
avoid fine needle-work, drawing of fine maps and
all such fine work except for very short tasks, not
exceeding half an hour each, and that in the morn-
ing. Never study or write before breakfast by
candlelight. Do not lie down when reading. Nev-
er play tricks with the eyes, as squinting or rolling
them. The eyes are often troublesome when the
stomach is out of order. Avoid reading or sew-
ing by twilight or when debilitated by recent ill-
ess especially fever.


IS FRIENDSHIP DYING OUT?

	There is a common belief, which perhaps
is just, that there is not so much friendship
in the world as there used to be. Various
causes have been assigned for this—that
men are less heroic, more querulous, more
selfish, more domestic. In my opinion the
real cause is want of time. And it must be
remarked that to keep up friendship, it is
not sufficient to have spare time now and
then; but you require an amount of cer-
tain and continuous leisure.
	Observe under what conditions of life
friendship, has had the greatest sway; and
has been most prominently developed. There
are still great friendships among boys at
school and young men at college. There
have been great friendships in compara-
tively barbaric times, for barbarism always
insures a certain continuity of leisure,
there were instances of signal friendship.
	What we call civilization has, up to the
present time, made increasing demands up-
on each man's time. Should this civiliza-
tion ever be a prosperous and successful
thing, it will give an assured continuity of
leisure; and then you will see that friend-
ship will revive amongst men.
	As an illustration of what I mean, I have
no doubt that benevolent persons must in
general have a large capacity for friendship;
but the evils of the world are so great, that
their attention is absorbed in the endeavor
to mitigate those evils. Great writers of
fiction of the present day have described
satirically persons whose whole minds are
so devoted to benevolent projects that they
even forget family duties. The whole of 
that class of person would afford excellent
material for friendship if their affections


were once freed from the predominent de-
sire to benefit the world in general, where-
as now the lamentable aspect of the world
compels them to devote all their energies to
the removal of that particular evil which
happens to have most attracted their benev-
olent imaginations.
	“Then, again, the monstrous size of great
cities in our age tends to diminish the pos-
sibility of maintaining close friendship
	All I would contend is, that men and wo-
men have the same capacity for friendship,
the same delight in it, the same craving
for it, as heretofore; but that an imperfect
civilization has rendered the manifestation
and even the reality of friendship more dif-
ficult, principally as regards the want of cer-
tain and continuous leisure.—Chimney Cor-
ner.


PEN AND SCISSORS

	IT does not signify if a man is small, he
wants a great coat.
	WHAT'S in a name? D. Seaver drives a
St. Louis milk wagon.
	A POPULAR writer speaking of the ocean
telegraph, wonders whether the news trans-
mitted through the salt water will be fresh.
	NONE are so poor as those who, having
money yet through a miserly spirit, deprive
themselves of the use and benefit of it.
	"LATIN and Greek are all right," said a 
Delaware farmer as he halted his team, but
gimme a man who can plow around an apple
tree 'thout toughing the roots."
	A GENTLEMAN drove a sorrowful looking
horse into town, and stopping in front of an 
inn, he requested a small boy to hold him a 
moment. "Hold him!" exclaimed the boy;
"just lean him up against the post—that'll
hold him."
	A GOOD man made a pathetic address to 
a Sunday School in Zanesville, O., recently,
and in concluding he requested them to 
sing "Jordan," instead of "Jordan's Stormy
Banks." He was astonished to hear shout-
ed in one unbroken chorus:—"Jordan am a
hard road to trable."
	BE frugal, not mean; prudent, not subtle;
complaisant, not servile; and active in busi-
ness, but not its slave. There are also four
other habits which are essentially necessary
to the happy management of temporal con-
cerns; these are punctuality, accuracy, stead-
iness and dispatch.
	THE other day a ragged red-eye man
stopped a Detroiter on the street and asked:
"Say, mister, lend a feller a dollar, will you?"
"No, sir!" was the emphatic reply. "Why
won't you?" "Because I don't know you,"
replied the citizen. "Well, you wouldn't 
let me have it if you did, so hand her out,"
was the cool reply.


IT is estimated that the tunnel between
England and France can be completed for
$30,000,000.


THE decrease of the public debt during
September is $3,342,562; decrease since
June 30, 1875, $6,222,499. Bonds issued to
the Pacific Railroad Companies, interest
payable in lawful money; Principal out-
standing, $64,623,512; interest accrued and
not yet paid, 969,362; interest paid by
United States, $28,202,807; interest repaid
by transportation of mails, etc., $6,396,524;
balance of interest paid by United States,
$21,806,283.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


FLOWERS.

	IT is wise not to lose a friend to whom
you can do a kindness, or from whom you
can take one.
	GOD gives every bird its food, but does
not throw it into the nest.
	HE that speaks the truth will find him-
self in sufficiently dramatic situations.
	THE grand essential elements to happi-
ness are something to do, something to love,
and something to hope for.
	NO chastening for the present seemeth to
be joyous, but grievous; nevertheless after-
ward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of right-
eousness unto them which are exercised
thereby.—From the Bible.
	EVERY one must find out for himself the
key to the riddle of life. It is of no use to
have it told. Some do not hear, while
others misunderstand it.
	BETTER have God for your guardian than
the Bank of England for your possession.
You might spend the wealth of the Indies,
but the infinited richness of God you can
never exhaust.
	LET it not be imagined that the life of a
good Christian must necessarily be a life of
melancholy and gloominess; for he only re-
signs some pleasures to enjoy others infi-
nitely greater.—Pascal.
	WHEN we are least moved by heavenly
love, we sympathize least with human in-
firmities; so, also, when we are fullest of
heavenly love, we are most compassionate
to human misery, and best fitted to cope
with the troubles and infirmities that beset
us.
	"PEACE does not reign in outward things,
but within the soul. We may preserve it
in the midst of the bitterest pain, if our
will remain firm and submissive. Peace
in this life springs from acquiescence even
in disagreeable things, not in an exemption
from suffering.—Fenelon.
	IF a man or woman is fit for work God
appoints the field of labor and of action.
He does more; He points to the myriads of
down-trodden, suffering men and women
and says, in language plain to be under-
stood, by the whisperings of the spirit of
humanity and truth—"Work with me for
the redemption of these my children, these
the sheep of my fold, the lambs of my
flock;" and those who stoop and falter,
wasting time and energies to whine over
neglect or poverty, or the ridicule and snarls
of the world, give the sign of their own
littleness.
	Enjoy the present, whatever it may be,
and be not solicitous for the future; for if
you take your foot from the present stand-
ing, and thrust it forward to to-morrows
event, you are in a restless condition. It
is like refusing to quench your present
thirst by fearing you will want to drink the
next day. If to-morrow you should want,
your sorrow will come time enough, though
you do not hasten it. Let your trouble tar-
ry till its own day comes. Enjoy blessings
this day, if God sends them, and the evils
of it bear patiently and sweetly, for this
day is ours. We are dead to yesterday and
not yet born to to-morrow.—Jeremy Taylor


A YOUNG man recently died of consump-
tion at East Wilton, the disease having been
caused by the inhaling of the dust in the 
stone-crushing mill in that town. Several
young men have died in the same town,
from the same cause within the past few
years.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	MATILDA Jane (catching the pastor after
Sunday-school,) "Oh, sir, please, what would
you charge to christen my doll?"

	A LITTLE child said to her mother one
day, "Mother, I feel nervous."
	"Nervous!" said the mother, “What is
nervous?”
	“Why, it’s being in a hurry all over."

	A LITTLE boy in W— came in to his
mother one day, saying, “Mother, the boys
out there are swearing, and I would not
play with them, but came right into the
house!"
	"Swearing!" said the mother, who
thought her child was perhaps too young to
know what profaneness was. "What is
swearing, my child?"
	"Why, it is saying ‘God’ outside of their
prayers,” was the ready and original as 
well as just answer.


[Column 1]
	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods:, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY’S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

—NEW—
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S.P. TEASDEL'S.

Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels, Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for
Ladies at Reduced Prices. Boys’ and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the
wants of our patrons.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

MILLINERY.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
    Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Column 2]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers’ Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
ONE YEAR.

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S,
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the
WORKINGMEN’S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
	29 East Temple Street.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
