VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1875.		No. 14.


For the EXPONENT.
	THE NAME, JESUS.

I think upon that sacred name,
	And in that name, I pray;
It kindles in my soul, a flame
	That cheers me day by day.

The music of that precious name,
	Above all minstrel's art
Wakes in the mind, a nobler aim,
	And motive in the heart.

I feel a virtue in that name—
	The name in which we pray:
That holds, in faith's eternal chain,
	The powers of hell, at bay.

That name embodies strength and pow'r,
	Prolonging mortal breath;
And often in the trying hour,
	Averts the hand of death.

I boast the merit of that name—
	I venerate its power—
Its matchless potency I claim
	As bulwark, shield and tower.
							E. R. S.


[column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
		STEP BY STEP.

	It is thus the little tottering feet first
learn to go. Step by step they advance in-
to the broader and higher walks of life, and
still in the same manner must they pursue
the course unto the end. There is no con-
sistency in contemplating more than one
step at a time. In cases where necessity
demands haste, we may quicken our steps
or take longer strides, but never two at
once. And every step in life, let the young
reflect, tends towards happiness or misery,
into light or into darkness. It would be
folly to undertake a walk through a crowd-
ed, busy street with the eyes shut; extreme
folly to think of moving onward with the
kingdom of God in the way of salvation,
having the eyes closed and the heart sealed
against any principle pertaining to the Gos-
pel. But when the eyes are able to see and
the heart to comprehend the dealings of
God among His children, then is the way
plain and following after righteousness
sweet and beautiful. Then is the yoke easy
and the burden light; then step by step,
calmly and surely the way may be wended.
	A young woman who had been but a few
years married, once talked in the following
manner to a company of young ladies. Said
she, "Girls if you are wise you will never
marry. A young woman who has a good
home is foolish for seeking to better her
condition by leaving it for any man on
earth."
	One of the young ladies asked why she
had left her good home and parents for the 
sake of marrying.
	"Because," she answered, I did not know
any better. I had been warned, but like
others before me I would not believe. I
could not appreciate the blessings by which
I was surrounded, and so I was unhappy
without any cause. Now I see my folly, and
if any thing I can say will help to save an-
other from acting in this foolish way I shall
be glad."
	You see this poor woman was unhappily
constituted, but she did not know it and
chose to blame circumstances instead of
herself for her misfortunes. She was like
one walking in the dark. Had she com-

[column 2]
prehended her true position, she might
have sweetened her cup of life by cultiva-
ting a sweet and amiable disposition, and
by opening her eyes to the beautiful things
in life and glancing as hurriedly as possible
over the dark scenes she was obliged to pass
through.
	I will show you the opposite side of the
picture by relating how I heard a young wife
and mother express herself not long since:
she said "It is wonderful to contemplate with
what small means a human heart may be plea-
sed and gratified. When I was a little girl I
was so happy and so well satisfied with the
position I held, that I never thought of
wishing to be 'big' as many of my little
companions did. I was sometimes half in-
clined to wish to remain as I was, lest, as a
woman, I should not have such easy and
pleasant times.
	"But as I grew older, and by and by,
balls and parties, beaux and lovers came to
fill up the vacancies I had imagined in giv-
ing up the delightful romps and merry
games which as a child I had so much en-
joyed, I came to believe that youth instead
of childhood was mortal's brightest day.
And instead of feeling the extra work which
crowded upon me as I grew, a burden, I
felt glad and happy all the while that I was
becoming daily better able to do something
for myself and for my friends.
	"When I was married, it was truly the
happiest day I had ever experienced. Dur-
ing a long and blissful maidenhood, which
numbered just as many years as the child-
hood which preceded it, I had avoided as
much as possible the thought of marrying.
The days seemed so beautiful and dear to
me then, that I dreaded a change lest it
should bring less propitious ones. But when
the day for my bridal arrived, I felt no mis-
givings whatever. For years I had made
daily practice of praying that I might be
directed by the Holy Spirit in choosing a
husband, for I had believed that I should
marry sometime. And now I felt so secure,
so satisfied that my prayers had been heard
and answered that there was no room for
doubts and forebodings.
	So serenely happy was I at the time when
I knelt in the holy sanctuary beside him to
whom I pledged eternal faithfulness, and
afterwards when he proved his love and
fidelity so sincere, that I scarcely looked
forward to any future hope. But after the
birth of my little one, the unparalleled
blessedness of the new love which came
made me almost wonder how I could have
felt myself so perfectly blessed for so many
years without it.
	I want every step in my future life to
prove as each one has in the past; that God
directs, that it is the proper step in the pro-
er time and place, bringing me into new
light and love and joyousness."
	Thus we may walk on, either in the
gloom of doubt and despondency or in the
broad, free light of hope and trust. But
choose which path we may, the shaded or
the sunny one, it is as well to remember
that we can move only so fast—step by step
—and that nothing is to be gained by head-
long haste.
							MABEL.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GOVERNOR THAYER of Wyoming, in his
recent Message to the Territorial Legisla-
ture, endorses the system of Woman Suf-
frage, and adds, after six years' practical
trial, he would recommend its continuance.
—Woman's Journal.
	TENNESSEE IS doing bravely for the cause
of woman in one of the departments of the
Woman Question. The boards of education
have made this resolve; that, "they will
not hereafter pay any teacher less money
than another for the single fault of being a
woman instead of a man." It is said this
decision is causing some little excitement
in educational circles.
	THE UNVEILING of the Monument in
Memory of the poet Edgar A. Poe, took
place Nov. 17th, in Westminister Church
yard. The ceremonies attending the dedi-
cation were sublime and imposing. The
preliminary exercises to the unveiling took
place in the Western Female High School.
	THERE HAVE been placed in the Louvre
recently, six busts of the finest white mar-
ble, representing the first six Roman Em-
perors. Although they are many centuries
old, they are so well preserved that they
are, in appearance, as perfect as if they had
just been chiseled. The faces are said to be
particularly fine, that of Augustus especially
so. They were discovered in Africa.
	HIS EXCELLENCY President Grant has
delivered his message to the Senate and
House of Representatives, and summed up
his opinions of the country, the people, and
the future. He specifies five particular sub-
jects upon which he considers it necessary
to legislate this present session. He seems
to feel more concerned for Utah than any of
his predecessors have done, and is desirous
to establish some status by which plural
wives and their offspring may be recognized.
The "possibly innocent plural wives of
Utah" ought certainly to tender him a
vote of thanks, that is, if they did not
know, that in the sight of God and His ser-
vants their status was already permanently
fixed.
	"Joaquin Miller," writing from London,
gives a very pleasing though brief sketch
of some of the celebrated Ladies of Lon-
don. He speaks in the highest terms of
their genuine hospitality and warmth of
feeling, and says: "In fact, any of these
great ladies will make you feel as much at
home in half an hour, as if you'd gone to
take tea with a favorite aunt." Of Jean
Ingelow he says: "She lives in the aristo-
cratic Kensington Gardens quarter, but in a
plain and unpretentious way, and is very
affable and accessible to Americans."
"George Elliot" is sometimes seen in litera-
ry clubs with her husband, Mr. Lewis, but
very rarely. She lives in a very quiet, hum-
ble way in the north side of London, in a lit-
tle two-story house. Lady Hardy, another
of the great ladies of London, lives just
opposite. Mrs. Linletten lives in about the
heart of London in a more pretentious
style. Christina Rosetti is an invalid, and
lives with her mother and brother. The
ladies of Literary London have no meetings
as they have in America.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Nov. 29th, was calculated
to awaken serious reflections in the minds
of all present in regard to re-baptism and
renewing of covenants. Many of the sis-
ters present expressed their wishes in re-
gard to reformation, with much fervency
and earnestness. The subject of the repre-
sentation of Utah at the Centennial was
dwelt upon with zeal and eloquence by Miss
E. R. Snow. No one who attends these
meetings of the sisters can be left in any
doubt as to the sincerity of the desires of
those who are connected with these socie-
ties, to improve themselves, and to use
their influence for the advancement of light
and truth upon the earth.

		HARRISVILLE NOV. 21st, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I think it a duty, as well as a pleasure to
send you a report of our Society, we are
still improving and endeavoring to do good;
our meetings are attended with a good
spirit, peace and harmony prevails. We
received a visit from Pres. Eliza R. Snow,
on the 11th of Nov. and also Mrs. Harriet
Brown and Mrs. Frodsham from Ogden.
The house was well filled a goodly number
of brethren. both young and aged.
	Pres. Eliza R. Snow arose and addressed
us at some length, upon the most beneficial
principles of the Gospel, which we wish to
appreciate as we ought, for it was a source
of great pleasure to hear instruction from
her lips. She then proceeded to organize a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
and gave them instruction in the line of
their duties. Then followed Sisters Brown
and Frodsham and also some appropriate
remarks by our Pres. Melissa Shirtliff.
	The Presidency of the District expressed
themselves pleased with the instruction
that had been given.
	Ever yours in the Gospel:
		MRS. MARY ELIZA TAYLOR,
								Sec'y.

	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation in the Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City,
was organized September last by Miss Eliza
R. Snow, assisted by Mrs. Zina D. Young,
and Mrs. Priscilla Staines (President of the
Twelfth Ward Relief Society). Mrs. Ro-
mania Pratt was chosen President, with
Counselors, etc. The Society has increased
in numbers considerably, and a good feeling
prevails universally among the members.
A spirit of mutual improvement is apparent,
and all seem desirous to appreciate their
blessings and privileges. Essays and select
readings, with speaking, praying and sing-
ing are the prominent features of our meet-
ings, and we hope to improve in every good
word and work.
			ELIZABETH KINGSBURY.
						Ass't Secretary.
	Dec. 8th, 1875.


LETTERS FROM THE COUNTRY.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON CO., NOV. 20th '75.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Sister Barney arrived here yesterday, and
held a meeting at eleven o'clock, and start-
ed for Parowan at 3 p. m. my husband and
myself accompanying her, we had a good
time together, also an excellent meeting,
truly enjoyable.  Sister Barney carries a
good influence with her and truly has the


spirit of her mission. We think if two or
three sisters from head quarters could come
along occasionally it would arouse the sisters
to their duty in regard to their religion,
both practically and spiritually. I had not
thought that she or any other woman in
Utah, could talk so long and so well to an
audience as she did. I am rejoiced to find
they are coming out and declaring them-
selves to be sincere in what they profess.
The people both here and in Parowan felt
well and thought she had come just at the
right time when Reformation was needed.
We are pleased to hear of John Henry
Smith being ordained Bishop.
	Yours in the faith of the Gospel.
								J. B.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., Nov. 23 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We have had such a feast to-day in this
beautiful little city of ours. Sister Barney,
from Salt Lake visited us and held a gener-
al meeting. Her discourse was spirited and
full of principle; it ran chiefly upon the
UNITED ORDER and HOME MANUFACTURE
in its various branches. Her heart was full
to overflowing, and it was as she said, when
she looked at the faces of the daughters of
Zion, whose bright eyes beamed with intel-
ligence, it was an index to the heart that
the spirit of God was there.
	She cautioned the young ladies against
forming any acquaintance or being united
with the wicked and corrupt outsiders; in
fact I think she talked of everything that
was beneficial and necessary.
	She said "I try to be as charitable as I can
in my feelings towards my enemies, know-
ing they are the children of our Father in
heaven, and if they would but repent of
their sins and redress our wrongs and let us
worship our God according to the revela-
tions which He has given us, and according
to the declaration of independence, then the
will of our Father might be done on the
earth as it is done in Heaven."
	Your sister in the gospel of peace,
				JANE SPIKING VANCE.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I would like to say a few words, through
your columns, to my beloved sisters. The
earnest and brave, who are trying to help
to spread the gospel, by advocating its prin-
ciples at home, in private circles, in SundaySchools, in Retrenchment Associations, and
in every place where woman may be per-
mitted to raise her voice.
	I believe woman's influence to be one of
the most powerful instruments for good
upon the earth
	It is not necessary that woman should
be great, or learned, or popular, in order to
exert a power for good. Every woman who
is possessed of pure and good motives may
be inspired with the Holy Spirit (if she
seeks it aright), to perform a spiritual work
towards educating the young, which seems
a part of Woman's Mission. God has given
to woman this field of physical labor, to im-
part from her own body life to the ten-
der blossoms which contain the germ of the
immortal soul; then did He not also design
that she should bear an equally important
share in nurturing, from her own resources,
the heart, the true inner life which governs
and controls the outward?
	If we would help to educate the rising
generation to understand those advanced
principles which will lead them into the


celestial kingdom, it will be essential for us
to act with faith, and let prayer accompany
teaching and counsel, and above all let
prayer be not a form of words, void of feel-
ing, but in the strength and earnestness of a
humble heart, ask for the Holy Spirit to
guide and direct every act of our lives.
	So far as it is possible, let our teachings
and practices correspond, otherwise we shall
fail in producing the good we desire.
	Women are called enthusiasts upon the
subject of religion, but is it not this very
earnestness which makes them more devo-
ted followers of Jesus than men usually are?
How was it with Mary and Martha, and
others in the Saviour’s time? Were they
not looked upon as over-zealous, ridiculed,
censured and despised? Did not Jesus love
them for this sincerity and devotion? Did
He not strikingly manifest His appreciation
of their genuine merit by showing Himself
first to them after the resurrection? Have
we not encouragement enough, by this ex-
ample and its results, to believe the Lord
will bless us in our efforts, however humbld
they may be, and crown our labors with the
success which only those who enter heart
and soul into the work can expect to recieve?
							EMILE.
	S. L. City, Dec. 7, 1875.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	"YOU haven't opened your mouth during
the whole session," said an M. P., to a fel-
low member. "Oh, yes, I have," was the
reply; "I yawned thtough the whole of
your speech."
	A LITTLE girl in Mt. Vernon street cut
her finger a few days since and the fond
mother ordered John to run qnickly to
Charles street and bring a doctor. "If one
ain't in," were the orders, "leave word and
go to the next." John obeyed orders, and
twenty-one doctors called in course of an
hour.—Boston Journal.
	IT is a most painful spectacle in families
where the mother is the drudge, to see the
daughters elegantly dressed, reclining at
their ease, with their drawing, their music,
their fancy work, and their reading—beguil-
ing themselves to the lapse of hours, days
and weeks, and never dreaming of their
responsibilities.
	A DETROIT man, who was greatly an-
noyed because his wife was not better post-
ed in history, procured one and asked her
to study it. She complied, and when he
came home to supper he found her reading
away, hair down, slippers on, all the fires
out but one, and no supper. She said she
was not sick, knew nothing about his sup-
per, but she added, as she settled back in
her chair, "I can tell you all about the first
discovery of Florida as straight as a string!"
	IN a Tremont street car the other after-
noon—the Boston "Globe" tells the story—
the seats on one side were well filled, on the
other seven ladies were seated, and, pin-
backs to the contrary notwithstanding, they
contrived to spread over the entire space.
Presently, a tired, pale and feeble-looking
woman entered, and, the ladies glancing at
her, settled back and let her stand. The
only gentleman in the car, one of Boston's
best known authors, moved by righteous
indignation, rose and said; "Ladies, how
can you expect any gentleman to give you
seats in a car when you treat one of your
own sex with such unfeeling cruelty?" Then
turning to the poor woman he said: "Mad-
am, my seat is at your service," and left
the car in thorough disgust.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL TO THE FLOWERS.

Dear children of the garden, field and wood
And wayside; ye have come, and ye have gone,
Like players in some merry interlude,
Between the tragic acts of Winter: on
In gay procession o'er a brilliant zone
Ye've traveled, holding up before the eye
The shape of perfect Beauty, and the tone
Of that harmonious coloring which we try
In vain to equal, or indeed come nigh.

Sweet was the honey which ye gave the bees,
Industrious sippers of your golden cells:
Rich was the fragrance which ye gave the breeze,
As he ran ringing all along your bells;
Glad were ye when the rain from cloudy wells
Sparkled upon your petals, and the sun,
Like one who in the blessed heaven dwells.
Came down and kissed you fondly every one,
And every day until your course was run.

Like one bereaved, upon your graves I gaze,
Mourning your absence with unfeigned grief;
Remembrance paints me all your pretty ways.
In your fine progress from your first green leaf,
Until ye stood up like an Autumn sheaf
In mellow splendor. O ye fa'ry things!
Why should ye go down like a sunken reef?
Why like the swallow ply your farewell wings,
And cause the desolation which your absence brings?

Thou Snow-drop, rival of the taintless snow;
Thou Crocus, symbol of the monarch's crown;
Thou Primrose, shiner in a golden show
Which glittered richly all the green bank down;
Thou Daisy, wearer of the bridal gown;
Thou Lily, lady of the ancient hall;
Thou Poppy, soldier in thy red renown;
Thou Rose, the queen of every bush and wall
How have ye all gone down under the spoiler's pall?

Farewell companions of the singing hills,
Of the green grass, and of the yellow crop;
Ye friends of rivers and of glassy rills;
Ye watchers on the lofty mountain's top;
Ye worshippers beneath the crystal cope,
And in the flaming, shining, solar fane:
Farewell, farewell, in sorrow and in hope;
Our hearts will linger on in daily pain,
Until we see your happy looks again.


HINTS FOR YOUNG LOVERS.

      FROM AN OLD ENGLISH PAPER.

	From thirty downwards (would it could
be reckoned the other way!), men calculate
in proportion to the force of their attain-
ment. They imagine probabilities of fail-
ure, which never rise in a young man's
brain. He proceeds, as it were, by instinct,
and every step he takes is rather the effect
of accident than design. But they deliber-
ate on each detail. They weigh their words.
They watch for opportunities. And it is
thus that so many young women are attract-
ed and caught, they not how or why, and,
to the great wonderment of shallow observ-
ers, by suiters discrepant in various ways,
beside the mere disparity of years. Andto the lover who thus enters into the daring
adventure with all the odds against him,
what are his chances, what the compensa-
tion? The impetuous burst of boyish fancy
is incomparably less interesting than the
delicate, yet manly, march of matured pass-
ion. Whoever has felt the first, may be al-
lowed to image the latter—to picture to
himself the full-grown mind, with reason,
taste, and sentiment united, choosing its ob-
ject and firmly careering on its way; each
day growing bolder and tenderer, but not
less wise; bringing but the development of
the heart it would make its own; fostering
its timid virtues, yielding to its young cap-
rices, training its tendril fancies, losing
gradually all separate identity to their clus-
tering foliage; till at length the parent stem
and the encircling parasite becomes as one,
nourished by the same sap, and mutually
supporting and embellishing each other in
undivided sympathy. Such is the progress
of a successful passion between beings of
unequal ages, but of similar natures, unde-


faced by violent disputes, and those odious
reconciliations, every one of which steal
something from love's original stock. And
if failure meets the man of mature age who
ventures on the conquest of a young beauty,
it comes without disgrace, for he rarely haz-
ards, by a too rapid advance, the chance of a
too violent check. He looks out for sym-
toms, and is not so blinded but he can pre-
ceive the breakers which warn him of the
rocks. Hence, when he fails, his rising re-
gard is not turned to lasting hatred. No
ruffian jealousy tramples out the memory of
hope nor is wounded pride left fostering in-
to fierce revenge.  He can make allowance
for her who was worthy his affection, and
he can admire and esteem, even when he
may not dare to love her.—Agnes de Mans-
field.


For the EXPONENT.
		NOVEL READING.

	A great deal has been said and a great
deal more might be said on this subject; in
my opinion it is one of the many evils that
lead the young astray; for when they begin
to read novels it is hard to give them up,
they get their minds so wrapped up in them
that they think and speak of nothing else.
	A lady told me she had a sister who when
she read a novel could talk of nothing else
for about three weeks afterwards; if you
asked her a question she would half answer
and then say something about the novel she
had read. I used to be a great novel read-
er but they never did me any good; I was
told so many a time, but still I kept on un-
til I joined the Retrenchment Association,
about a year ago, and since then I have not
read any novels. I have read the church
works and instead of storing my mind with
romantic imaginations I am seeking to store
it with knowledge that will not only do me
good in this world, but also in the world to
come. I once heard of a man who took a
journal for three years and when he was
counseled to give it up he would say wait
till this story is finished, but when he got
the number with the end of the story there
was the beginning of another in it, and so
he would begin that one, and so on until he
had three year's numbers; he then formed
a resolution that he would stop them; but
says he, "if I give them away they will do
some other person as much harm as they
have done me, so I will burn them." And
he took and piled them up and set fire to
them, and he said it was as good a days
work as he had done for years; and I think
so too; we should follow his axample; if we 
read novels let us stop them and if we have
any books that we know will not do us, or
any one else any good, but if we read them
fill our minds with wrong ideas let us burn
them and then they can't do us any harm.
I think that we RETRENCHMENT girls should
show to the world that we desire true in-
telligence; and we can't become intelligent
unless we read useful books.
	In selecting reading matter, something
should be chosen that will be beneficial to us
in some way; something that will serve to
enlighten and enliven the powers of intel-
lect; not always the same subjects but a di-
versity of interesting and instructive
themes. And in reading simple anecdotes,
we sometimes hit upon a little dint of in-
spiration, which will lay the foundation for
great and sublime reflections and cause us to
develop ideas that may be given to the
world in glowing richness and beautiful
originality. That we may have strength to
conquer all our weaknesses and live pure


and upright before God, that we may gain a
celestial reward is my prayer in the name
of Jesus.
					SARAH McKEAN
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 29th 1875.


HOW TO SAVE YOUR EYES.

	When will those working by lamp-light
have the sense to understand the use of
shades to protect the eyes? We see persons
sitting holding their sewing or other work
before and near to a lamp, while the light
is blazing full into their eyes. It is plain
that the object that they work upon cannot
be seen with so great distinctness while the
field of their retina is already occupied by a
blaze. But they work on for hours, and
though the next morning their visual or-
gans tell of the abuse by redness and inflam-
mation, the workers are too dull to learn
the lesson of experience offered them. Cir-
cular paper shades can be obtained for a few
cents, and those not only protect the eyes
from the excess of light, but serve as a re-
flector behind the blaze, increasing the il-
lumination one-half. Besides the above
mentioned evil, there is that of the varying
quantity of light thrown into the eye by
its being suddenly and alternately directed
towards the blaze or obliquely away from it,
by which the pupil has not time to adapt
itself to the increase of glare; whereas, with
the use of the shade, the illumination would
be more uniform. The number of persons
in the community having spots light or dark,
in their field of vision, arising from injury
to the retina by the ill usages which we are
mentioning, is greater than is commonly
imagined. It must be borne in mind that
these spots are a serious step toward amau-
rosis and gutta serena, such as plunged in
darkness the latter years of the great
Milton, and many others more eminent for
their talents than their caution.


HINTS ABOUT BEAUTY.

	There is nothing more unfavorable to fe-
male beauty than late hours. Women who,
either from necessity or choice, spend most
of the day iu bed, and the night at work or
dissipation, have always a pale, faded com-
plexion, and dark-rimmed, weary eyes.
Too much sleep is almost as hurtful as too
little, and is sure to bloat the person with a 
pallid and unwholesome fat. Diet also has
a marked influence upon personal beauty.
Generous living is favorable to good looks,
as it tends to fill out and give color and
sleekness to the skin. A gross and exces-
sive indulgence, however, in eating or
drinking is fatal to the female charms, espec-
ially where there is a great tendency to 
"making flesh." Regularity of time in the 
daily repast and scientific cooking are the
best means of securing not only good health
but good looks. The appetite should never
be wasted during the intervals between
meals on pastry, confectionary, or any other
tickler of the appetite, which gratifies the
taste, but does not support the system. Ex-
ercise is, of course, essential to female
beauty. It animates the whole physical
life, quickens the circulation of the blood,
heightens the color, develops the growth,
and perfects the form of each limb and the 
entire body. It also gives beauty and grace
to every movement.


ENVY is an insult to a man's good sense,
for it is the pain we feel at the excellencies
of others.


<nwro)i,. 08="" i"xhe="" woman’s="" exponent;="" i="" 0="" i.="" gbeexe="" richards,="" ehjieei.ve="" b.="" weeds.="" editors.="" pnblie-hed="" semi-monthly,-="" in="" salt="" lake="" city,="" utah.="" tcgw:="" one="" copy="" year,="" $2.00;="" .one="" elx.months,="" (1.0="" tcrtopics="" for="" the="" prlpo="" of="" nine.,="" adertislnp="" jates;="" each="" square,="" tn="" lines="" .="" nonpareil="" ppacfy="" utpe%="" 82.oo5="" .yor="" mpntfy,="" ,$3.q0.="" a.liberal="" tlucptuji="" to="" regular="" advertisers.="" "="" 11="" a.m.to="" 5="" p="" m.="" erery="" day="" except="" sunday.="" '“address="" all="" baslncss="" communlcatlorislo="" j;="" vc="" i:="" r="" publishers="" womas'’s="" extojtet,'="" 1="" ’="" balt="" utah;="" li-'.tsi;y-)r;..,="">
											WOMAN'S EXPONENT

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
							Editors.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Te[---].  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1875.


[column 1]
			EDUCATION.

	The subject of education, and of superior ed-
ucation is one much talked of and much
thought of in this day and age of the world.
Indeed there seems to be a more general diffu-
sion of education among the masses of people,
than at any previous date of which there is any
record.
	Yet there are still those who are destitute of
the knowledge of reading, writing, and the
most common branches, even in the most en-
lightened countries. Probably much of this
arises from carelessness and lack of energy,
some from willfulness and various other causes.
	But leaving the broad field of society at
large, and coming down to Utah Territory,
speaking of the people who are gathered here
from all parts of the civilized world, how much
might be said to them on this important sub-
ject. Much has been said to awaken them to
an interest in schools and all institutions o
learning. But that those who possess all the
advantages of books and good schools should
be careless, indifferent and neglectful of any-
thing so important, is a mystery.
	Abroad in the world, and even in the United
States, the people are under the impression
(most of them) that this peculiar people the
Latter-day Saints do not believe in educating
the masses, that they wish, as some foreign
powers do, to keep them in ignorance, in order
that they may be more easily governed and
controlled. They do not judge fairly in this
matter. They do not take into consideration
all the disadvantages this people have labored
under in times past to bring this barren wilder-
ness into a fruitful field; and of those who are
still laboring to extend the borders of the Ter-
ritory, building cities and towns, and peopling
them with new settlers, mostly foreigners,
who gather here from religious motives. But
that the subject of schools and education is one
of vital importance to those who have the true
interest of this people at heart, is well known
to all who are acquainted with the policy of the
course pursued in regard to schools ever since
they settled here.
	Many of the pioneers of this country, and
the first settlers here, have donated largely
for the benefit of schools, have sought by every
means in their power and all the influence they
possessed, to impress upon the minds of the
people the advantages of liberal education.
Improvements are constantly being made, and
visitors from the East who will take the time
to examine into the conditions of the schools
in this city will find they compare very favor-
ably in all respects to the institutions of learn-
ing in their respective states. The children of
this territory are not growing up in ignorance

[column 2]
neither is it the desire of President Young or
any of the authorities of the church that they
should, but instead to use all the influence and
means possible to educate them. and give them
such advantages as will prepare them for
wide spheres of usefulness. Yet there are
many people who not having them-
selves received an education, think it un-
necessary for their children to supersede them
and feel they need their help at home; but
is not this the case in every community, and
are there not as many such in proportion
in other places, as in Salt Lake? How is it in
New York and those large cities? Are they so
far in advance of Salt Lake when one takes in-
to consideration all the advantages of time,
place and surroundings? If this people, men
and women, are allowed the privileges and
rights of other American citizens, in a few
years there will need be no complaints made
against their system of education.
	Strangers do not hesitate to say that the chil-
dren here are just as intelligent as in other com-
munities, notwithstanding they are shut out
from the world, and have been born a thousand
miles from civilization. One professional gen
tleman from the East, who has been for several
years past a resident of this city, remarked that
the morals of the young men in this place
surpassed those of young men in other cities
that had come under his observation.


[column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	OUR beloved Sister Lydia Golden who died a
short time ago, deserves a tribute of praise and
respect from those who knew her real worth
and many womanly virtues. She was an affec-
tionate mother, a tender, true and loving wife,
a kind and generous friend; a woman possess-
ing great Christian charity for the faults and
failings of others; she was benevolent to the
poor and needy, warm and sympathetic to-
ward those who were in sorrow and in grief;
and a firm believer in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	It is worthy of note that Sister Golden was
the first woman who ever canned any fruit in
Utah.
					CORRESPONDENT,
	THE DESERET Silk Association met per
adjournment at the City Hall, December 1st,
1875; Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. Mrs.
Young said that B. W. Schettler had reported to
her that he had a loom which with a little la-
bor, could be brought into use; said that she
would like to have means sufficient in the so-
ciety to purchase all the cocoons that were in
the Territory.
	B.W. Schettler said that he felt very much
interested in the raising and manufacturing of
silk; spoke of the time when President Brig-
ham Young advised the brethren to send and
get some machines, said that he sent and got
two Shekard looms, he had one left the other
got burned. The machines when imported,
cost 350 dollars; he proffered to let the society
have the one at 100 dollars if after it was fixed
up and had been worked they were satisfied
with it; said that he had written to Bro. Paul
Schettler who was in California for more partic-
ulars regarding the machine, and would re-
port in one week, but proffered the society the 
use of the loom and pattern cutter.
	Brother Hanney of Provo, being present,
said that he could fix up the loom and could al-
so work it.
	Bro. C.W. Stayner read, from a report, of
the statistics of the American Silk Association
New York, Nov. 30th, 1875, the following state-
ments. "The Silk Association of America, re-

[column 2]
ports, that the importations of raw silk for Nov.
are 1,257 packages; gold value, $965,380; and for
the five months ending Nov. 26th. 4,099 packa-
ges. valued at $10,340,489.  Of the Nov. receipts
232 packages were via.  England and the conti-
nent; and 1,025 via the Overland route." He 
also spoke of the amount of money sent from
home, which could be used for the benefit of 
our own people.
	Bro. A. M. Musser said that all enterprises
at first had small beginnings for example re-
ferred to the church when first organized; spoke
of the amount of labor this would give to the 
female portion of our people, also to the children
who would be glad to gather the leaves to feed
the worms; advised the brethren to put out 
trees and help the work along; said now was 
the time to put out trees for all who felt in-
clined to take hold of this great euterprise
thought that if the society would give notice
from time to time of their doings, it would act
as a stimulus and encourage the people to go
ahead; spoke of the manufacture of silk if
made a successful business of, what a benefit
it would prove to the people, and of the 
amount of wealth it would bring this Territory;
said that he had 3000 mulbery trees that were
doing well.  Motioned that Bro. Hanney of 
Provo work the loom, left with the Superin-
tendent and President.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said that Mrs. Dunyon
had presented the association with several
ounces of silk-worm-eggs which could be ov-
tained by applying to her, the proceeds to be
for the benefit of the society.
	There was also a very fine specimen of home
made silk, which was raised and reeled by
Mrs. Delinda Robinson of Farmington.  It was
pronounced by competent judges to be as good
as they had seen anywhere.
	Brother Reuben Simpson read an article to 
show the benefit from the raising and manufac-
turing of silk, which was as follows:
	"The silk interest of America is growing and 
prosperons.  There is no complaint of hard
times, no closing of mills, no strikes among
operatives so far  The silk producers do not 
ask bonuses from the government, but only that 
the protection laws be rigidly enforced. The
interest gives employment to 150,000 per[-]ons,
over half of whom are women and girls who 
received last year $4,500,000.  The capitall in-
vested in the manufacture is $14, 700,000: so far
the raw silk is imported.  This is all wrong, in-
asmuch as the raw material can be produced
here as well as in China and Japan.
Meeting adjourned until the first Monday
in January, 1876, at the City Hall at 6 p. m.
			REUBEN SIMPSON,
						Secretary pro tem.
	P. S. All are invited who would like to try
the raising of silk, or have any information to 
impart upon the subject.


RETRENCHMENT

	[An essay written for and read before the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association of
the 20th Ward.]
MY BELOVED SISTERS:
	The subject chosen for to-day is Retrench-
ment. There is a great deal more contained in
the word retrenchment, than we young folks
realize, as a general thing. There are a num-
ber of young ladies who would no doubt be
pleased to join us, but they are afraid of being
called upon to speak. Now if I understand the
object of this association, it is to retrench in
every idle thought, word and action, as far as
possible, and to strive to overcome our timidity
in rising to express our thoughts and ideas one


to another; and if we have not the language
to express our feelings in words, as we would
like, we have the privilege of writing on any
subject which occupies our minds. I believe
we have in our ward, young ladies with as
good ideas and sentiments as there are in any
ward in the city, who are willing and anxious
to learn that which is intended to instruct and
benefit them, but for want of proper study and
a little practice, have never expressed their
feelings outwardly. Some of us have an idea
that if we join this society, we must retrench
in our dress. Now I think there are many oth-
er things we can retrench in beside dress. I
will leave it to the young ladies to ask them-
selves if they can not see room for improve-
ment in our manners, in our every day life, al-
so in our reading matter. Let as many of us
as have been in the habit of reading novels,
or books that have a tendency to lead the mind
to doubt the existence of a God, or a supreme
Being who rules the heavens and the earth, do
away with the practice, and read instead, books
that lead the mind in a higher channel, and
then we will know more of the nature and be-
ing of the God we worship. And our back-
wardness, and all such obstacles in the way of
advancement would be overcome to a great ex-
tent. We would then be able to converse more
freely on subjects which at present we know
very little about. My constant prayer is that
we may live lives of Saints and be worthy of a
name and standing in the church of Christ.
						A. M. SANSOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A LITTLE CHAT ABOUT CHRISTMAS.
	As I sit thinking about Christmas, in my
mind's eye I conjure up a fanciful picture of
the past. I wonder whether any of our kind
readers would like to know how we spent
Christmas in the "long ago." I can see before
me an old rambling brown country house and
it is running over, full of little children, all ages
from the tall young lady and over-grown boy
down to infancy. In all the "living rooms"
the walls and pictures are ornamented with
the evergreens, pines and hemlock boughs
with which New England abounds: the scarlet
berries in thick clusters upon the vines and the
tiny white-pink blossoms of the lily of the val-
ley.  The house resounds with merry laughter
and shouts of glee, and from garret to cellar, in
every nook and corner, the little children hide
and cluster, as they romp and frolic in their
wild delight; playing at "blindman's buff,"
"hide and seek," and those old-fashioned
games which seemed so particularly adapted to
the cultivation of physical development and
animal spirits. Presents, neither costly or ele-
gant, perhaps, but precious indeed from the as-
sociations of friendship; and affection, and ap-
preciated with warm-hearted enthusiasm. I
can see, O so plainly, the window-panes all
crystalized over, and remember how I used to
imagine cities, palaces, and castles, and associ-
ate them with fairy tales; and outside the snow
lay so deep the roads must needs be broken
with big heavy sleds and ever so many yoke of
cattle and then the merry bells would jingle
all day long as the sleighs flew past. I will not
tell you of the delicious plum puddings and
roasted turkeys, for you will soon have them in
reality, nor the full stockings we found by our
little beds in the cold frosty mornings, but I
will tell you of the bright sunshine in our
hearts, of the gladness of the happy childhood,
of the greetings of dear friends, cousins, and
all the long list of relatives gathered around
the hearth-stone at night, by the blazing fire
of pine knots, and singing old-fashioned songs
and telling wonderful tales, to please and

[Column 2]
amuse the little folks, who were never tired or
sleepy, while they might be allowed this ex-
citing pastime.
	If it were not too sorrowful, I could tell you
of a Christmas when there were no presents,
no sunshine in the heart, when all was so chil-
lingly lonely, that even, though the day was
bright outside, and nature sparkling in her
richest robes of jeweled splendor, the tears
fell and blinded us from seeing it, when the
little ones looked in our faces and wondered
what ailed us, and we could not choke down
the sobs of anguish that rose up and almost
stifled us. But my kind readers if you know
where there is sorrow, or poverty or loneliness,
if you know of a widow or little orphans, re-
member them on this coming Christmas, and
God will remember you, and bless you, and it
will be fulfiling the dear Savior's words to
whom this day is consecrated.
	Do not let it annoy you, if your gifts are not
rich or costly but have a sweet smile, and a
bright face, and a merry Christmas for every-
body, and your hearts will be light, and you
will be happy in imparting happiness to others.
Many, very many are the pleasant pictures of
the past which present themseves to us as we
look back, and a happy childhood is one of
the fond recollections ever associated through
life with feelings of tenderness and gratitude.
	There is something about home, that touches
the stoutest heart, the most hardened repro-
bate. And those who have a pleasant home,
kind parents, loving friends and plenty, should
never forget to thank God for all these precious
gifts of His goodness.  How often in the years
to come, will these sweet reminders of hap-
py childhood, flashes of vivid recollection,
bring to us glad thoughts and for the moment
we may almost feel again the brightness of
the glorious past. God is pleased with us when
we appreciate our blessings, we should never
forget how tenderly He cares for us, and that
all the precious blessings of our lives are dis-
pensed from His bounty.
	I love to see happy children, I love to see
happy men and women, happy in doing right.
And that we may, all of us, not only have a
merry but a happy Christmas, is the real wish
of,	AUNT EM.
	S. L City, Dec. 9th 1875.


FLOWERS.

	POETRY is the beauty of ideas—distinct
from the beauty of things.
	CONVERSATION enriches the understand-
ing, but solitude is the school of genius,
	MODESTY is to merit as shades to figures
in a picture, giving it strength and beauty.
	TALENT, like beauty, to be admired,
must be unostentatious.
	HE is happiest, be he king or peasant,
who finds peace in his home.
	GOOD temper is like a sunny day, shed-
ding brightness on everything.
	LET no one overload you with favors;
you will find it an insufferable burden.
	MOST of the shadows that cross our path
through life are caused by standing in our 
own light.
	HAPPINESS is often at our side, and we
pass her by. Misfortune is afar off and we
rush to meet her.
	SINCERITY is speaking as we think, be-
lieving as we pretend, acting as we profess,
performing as we promise, and being as we
appear to be.
	ART rejoices in her own labours, because
the energetic mind requires exercise; and
such works are the reflections of its
thoughts, its capabilities, and its virtues.
	As storm following storm, and wave suc-
ceeding wave, give additional hardness to
the shell that encloses the pearl, so do the
storms and waves of life add force to charac-
ter.
	CHARITY and fine dressing are things
very different; but if men give alms for
the same reasons that others dress fine,
only to be seen and be admired, charity is
then but like the vanity of fine clothes.
	KNOWLEDGE will not be acquired with-
out pains and application. It is troublesome,
and like deep digging for pure waters; but
when once you come to the spring, they rise
up and meet you.
	VIRTUE has this happiness—that she can
subsist on herself. And knows how to ex-
ist without admirers, partizans, and protec-
tors; want of assistance and approbation
does not only affect her, but preserves,
purifies and renders her more pefect.
	NEVER lose an opportunity of seeing
anything that is beautiful. Beauty is God's
handwriting, a wayside sacrament; welcome
it in every fair face, every fair sky, every
fair flower, and thank Him for it, the foun-
tain of loveliness, and drink it in, simply
and earnestly, with your eyes. It is a
charmed draught, a cup of blessing.
	THE TRAGIC IDEAL.—The poet can no
more write without having suffered and
thought, than the bird can fly in an exhaust-
ed air-pump. He must learn the chords of
the everlasting harp, before he can draw
sweet music from it. But he cannot play
while he is learning—he cannot write when
he is suffering—he cannot sing when his
heart is bleeding. If he attempts it he will
utter but incoherent sobs. He must wait
till that suffering has passed into memory.
There it will work, fortifying the soul with
its examples, not tearing it with thorns.
He must wait until memory has become
spiritualized, by losing every portion of
the sensuous pain, before he can transmute
it into poetry.


IT is the policy of a good old father to
make his children feel that home is the hap-
piest place in the world; and we value
this delicious home-feeling as one of the
choicest gifts a parent can bestow.

	A CANARY bird belonging to Mrs. Jona-
than J. Hill, of Northwood, recently escaped
from its cage, and flew out of doors. At-
tempes were made immediately to recap-
ture it, but it flew out of sight, and was
finally given up as lost. About three days
after, the house cat brought the bird in, and
laid it at the feet of its mistress, safe and
sound.

	READING.—Of all the amusements that
can possibly be imagined for a working
man, after daily toils, or in the intervals,
there is nothing like reading a newspaper
or a book. It calls for no bodily exertion,
of which already he has had enough, per,
haps too much. It relieves his home of
dullness and sameness. Nay, it accompa-
nies him to his next day's work, and gives
him something to think of besides the me-
chanical drudgery of his every day occupa-
tion; something he can enjoy while absent,
and look forward to with much pleasure.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

		For the EXPONENT.
	IDLENESS AND UNREST.

	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
		E. B. WELLS

	"The keenest pangs the wretched find,
	Are rapture to the dreary void,
	The leafless desert of the mind,
	The waste of feelings unemployed."

	To know how to dispose of the faculties
God has assigned us, is one of the wisest
purposes of our lives.
	Unfortunately it is one which many peo-
ple are a long time discerning, and others
never arrive at any satisfactory conclusion.
	That God has given us almost unlimited
powers of discrimination and judgment,
that only require being brought into proper
exercise to develop our best and truest ten-
dencies, is apparent to all intelligent men
and women.
	Strange that people should possess insa-
tiate longings for something to do, to occu-
py their time, to make them feel they are
in the right channel for usefulness, and
never be able to determine for what their
peculiar capacities, gifts, or talents qualify
them.
	There are persons who possess such a de-
gree of intuition, as directs them from the
first dawning of intelligence upon their
minds, and they seem to fully comprehend
what their vocation in life should be, and
strive to make it practicable.
	Another class of individuals are brought
into circumstances which compel them
without any volition on their own part, to
occupy positions they have neither grace
nor ability to fill.
	Such persons are only entitled to the re-
spect due to their office, position or sur-
roundings. They can confer no dignity
upon the position, carry no personal influ-
ence to aid or augment their power. They
are dependent upon the place they hold, for
the respect, which every intelligent person
should win independently for themselves.
	How many young people are there in the
world, who are wearily sighing away the
hours, waiting to know their true sphere in
life, what nature has fitted them for, and
what will bring success if they enter upon
it.
	Undecided, fearful lest they should go be-
low their standard of manliness, or womanly
character; having no definite ideas, and
waiting for some interposition of Provi-
dence to develop in them what God gave
them reason and sense to determine for
themselves.
	Instead of taking hold of every day du-
ties and making circumstances bend to them,
disciplining their minds by adapting them-
selves to the work before them, they imag-
ine it is not what they consider most appro-
priate and let time go by, opportunities for
action pass, thoughts and feelings waste,
when the very elements of development, per-
haps, are within their reach, if they would
cultivate the neglected trifles which every
day presents, while they are looking afar off,
for some manifestation of future greatness,
and the real germ which should be cher-
ished and cultivated is running to waste, or
withering away in their own minds, for
very lack of exercise. These are usually
the unhappy ones, never satisfied, pining
for something which can never be attained
without exertion on their own part.
	How often do we hear the ejaculation, "If
I only knew what to do!" fortunate indeed
for such persons as these to have some one
in whom they believe to decide for them;
but how much more noble to be able to de-
cide for themselves, trusting in God to whom

[COLUMN 2]

all should earnestly pray that they may be
directed aright.
	We are all mortals and liable to make
mistakes, but even the very mistakes we
may make, may teach us useful lessons of a
severe but practical experience, which could
never have been gained by sitting down and
pining because our lot in life was cheerless
and obscure.
	We frequently hear the remark that these
women who never seem to know what they
were created for make good wives, because
they have boundless capacity for affection,
and will love, honor and obey, looking up
with feelings of reverence, and most truly
submissive to the advice and counsel of
their lord and master.
	Granting this to be true in part, that
girls who have no definite conceptions they
were created only to form a part and parcel
of another's existence, could such women
always find the one to whom they are con-
tent to yield obedience for their guiding
star, or pilot through life, they might find
things suited to their taste, but unfortunate-
ly we are not so well arranged in this
world; and oftener, perhaps, that the right
person never makes his appearance at the
right time and place to aid us, and carry
our load for us.
	Thus woman must often bear her own
burdens, without the assistance of a part-
ner, and she ought to be fully compe-
tent by every preparation possible, and
should kind fate even be so indulgent as to
accord to her a husband who will think
and act for her, she will then be doubly-
guarded, knowing she is capable of protect-
ing herself and having still another guardian
in him. But, kind reader, this is only one
view of the picture,—there are many other
shades and touches, blendings and minglings
of tints, and some of them are fearfully
dismal, and dark—but let every woman do
for herself all that is possible, in thinking
and in developing every attribute of God-
given grace and wisdom, and they can as-
suredly help the future growth and increase
of light and truth.
	Young ladies, do not content yourselves
with nonsense, see to it that you accom-
plish something creditable, which you can
look back upon with a consciousness of hav-
ing fulfilled a duty. What if it does not
seem the most pleasant; and what if others
indulge in idleness and froth? You are so
much their superior, whether the world ac-
knowledge it or not; He who understands
the motives of all hearts will not forget it
when He makes up his jewels.
	Do not bury your talent in a napkin, but
improve upon it, and you will be honored
not alone here, but hereafter.
	In the pathway of life there are thorns
and thistles, but they are necessary for the
protection of the finer and more delicate
blossoms and perfumes; only be careful to
handle them wisely, and some of the most
practical lessons may be learned from them.
	The sincerity and earnestness of your life
will be a surer passport to happiness than
any other. Those who take hold of the most
difficult labor, usually evince the most cour-
age, and develop the highest powers.
	The unhappy and unsatisfied ones are
those who never do anything but murmur
against their circumstances. By and by
the roses will fall, the violets wither, and
the winter of their hopes will come, and
then, if they have sown no good seed—all
is over; but for those who have preserved
and treasured up the good seeds of wisdom
and knowledge, seasoned with experience,
there will be a plentiful harvest of flowers
in the future.
	S. L. City, Nov. 25, 1875.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. F. W. Gillette recently delivered a
sermon before the Michigan State Conven-
tion of Universalists.
	MRS. Rice of Wilbraham, Mass., who is
ninety-one years old, gathered bushels of
cranberries and chestnuts for sale this year;
she walks regularly twice a week, one mile
to church winter and summer; she takes
care of herself and lives alone, and in all
probability will live ten years longer.
	EMMA Brainard Ryder, M. D., who has
attained an extensive and superior reputa-
tion as a lecturer on Physiology, is residing
in New York for the winter, at the residence
of Dr. Clemence L. Losier. This talented
lady recently lectured before the students of
Elmira College and Cornell University.
	REV. Mary Thomas Clark of Dublin,
Wayne Co., Indiana, was the first woman in
the West invested with power to solemnize
marriage. Mrs. Clark has been for many
years an active worker for Woman's Suf-
frage. She is an Fngiish woman of very
superior intellect and attainments, has read
much, and possesses all the advantages of
fine culture. She is a minister of the Uni-
versalist Church.
	QUEEN Victoria followed the remains of
John Brown, father of her faithful body-
servant, to the grave. She and the Prin-
cess Beatrice returned to the house, after
the hearse had departed for the grave-yard,
and helped to comfort the bereaved widow.


SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	Messrs D. Appleton & Co. have presented
the public library at Haverhill, Mass., with
450 volumes, valued at $1,200......Naviga-
tion has been closed at Chicago, the ice is
so very heavy......Cathedral of the Holy
Cross at Boston, the largest Catholic Church
in the country, was dedicated Dec. 8th, with
great pomp and ceremony......The gambling
houses in Cincinnati have been closed by
the authorities......Revivals are very lively
in Philadelphia, under Moody and Sankey's
influence......Three men were accidentally
killed in the main building of the Centen-
nial building at Philadelphia recently......
The prize poem at the Cambridge Univer-
sity this year is to be written upon the Cen-
tennial......The number of insane people in
San Francisco is said to be 25 per cent larger
than last year......A company of negro min-
strels are meeting with great success in
their entertainments in Paris......The Chil-
dren's Aid Society in New York has dis-
tributed within the last 23 years $1,887,569.

			PERSONAL.

	William B. Astor, probably the most
wealthy citizen of America, died in New
York Nov. 24th, aged 85 years......M. Thiers
is engaged in writing his philosophical
work entitled "Man and Matter"......Rev.
Dr. Lord of Buffalo, proposes to will his
valuable library to the city of Buffalo......
Gen. V. S. Vanantwerp of the U. S. Army,
died at his daughter's residence, Prince
George's Co., Md., Dec. 8th, aged 86......
Captain Leonard Buell was fatally shot on
board his vessel on Dec. 7th......Gen. Bab-
cock has gone to Chicago to attend the court
of inquiry implicating him......Mr. B. E.
Woolf of Boston, has written a comic opera
in two acts, music and words, entitled "A
Cure for Love"......The Rev. Dr. Sprague of
Albany has presented to the New York
State library 8,000 historical and miscella-


neous pamphlets.........J.L. Drake, grand
Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Good Tem-
plars of Illinois, died recently......Senator
Dawes, of Massachusetts, was recently kicked
by a horse and seriously injured.

			FOREIGN.

	Mr. Holman Hunt has left England for
Jerusalem, intending to remain three years
to complete a large picture on an important
subject......Joe Jefferson has just recently
buried his youngest child, a boy four years
old, in London, in the midst of his profes-
sional triumphs......The Governor of Paris
has resolved to prevent disorderly meetings
......Spain will send an iron-clad fleet to
Cuba......A mineralogical society is to be
organized in London.....Japanese advisers
state that war between Japan and Corea is
inevitable.....Cholera is interfering with
the Prince of Wales movements in India
......The assassin of the German Consul-
General, in Uraguay, has been tried by
court-martial, and shot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LET US HELP ONE ANOTHER.

	This little sentence should be written on
every heart and stamped on every memory.
It should be the golden rule practiced not
only in every household, but throughout
the world. By helping one another we not
only remove thorns from the pathway and
anxiety from the mind, but we feel a sense
of pleasure in our own mind, knowing we
are doing a duty to a fellow creature. A
helping hand, or an encouraging word, is no
loss to us, yet it is a benefit to others. Who
has not felt the power of this little sentence?
Who has not needed the encouragement
and aid of a kind friend? How soothing,
when perplexed with some task that is mys-
terious and burdensome to feel a gentle
hand on the shoulder and to hear a kind
voice whispering, "Do not feel discouraged.
I see your trouble—let me help you." What
strength is inspired, what hope created,
what sweet gratitude is felt, and the great
difficulty is dissolved as dew beneath the
sunshine. Yes, let us help one another by
endeavoring to strengthen and encourage
the weak and lifting the burden of care from
the weary and oppressed, that life may glide
smoothly on and the fount of bitterness
yield sweet waters; and He, whose willing
hand is ever ready to aid us, will reward
our humble endeavors, and every good deed
will be as "bread cast upon the waters to
return after many days," if not to us, to
those we love.


HOW TO APPRECIATE BLESSINGS.—It has
been remarked often, and very truly, that
people are incapable of appreciating any-
thing until they have been deprived of it.
This applies even to our most common bless-
ings. We do not know how refreshing and
delicious pure cold water is especially from
"the old oaken bucket that hangs in the
well," until we happen to be in some place
where the water is brackish or hard, and we
cannot obtain any fit to drink. For several
weeks during most summers, the prevail-
ing feeling is that there is nothing else in
the world so delightful as a breath of fresh
cool air. But when we have a cool comfort
able summer, we think little of it. So it is.
The poor prisoner feels that the liberty
to which the multitude outside seem so in-
different, is a boon of priceless value. The
hungry appreciate food, and the thirsty
drink.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Apple Float.—One pint of stewed apples; when
cold, sweeten and flavor to taste. Just as you
want to send to table add the beaten whites of four
eggs, lightly stirred into it.
	Quick-Baked Batter Pudding.—One pint of
milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, or better, two of
flour and two of corn starch; two eggs, juice of a
lemon. Bake on a tin plate, in hot oven, twenty
minutes.
	Indian Pudding.—Boil a quart of milk and stir
in four tablespoonfuls of Indian meal and four of
grated bread or crackers, three tablespoonfuls of
sugar, four eggs, a piece of butter as large as a
walnut, and a little salt. Bake it three hours.
	Lemon Pie.—Three eggs (save the whites of
two), juice and peel of one lemon, one cup of boil-
ing water, one tablespoonful of corn flour, one cup
of sugar. Grate the lemon and pour the boiling
water over the juice and peel; beat the eggs with
the corn flour and add to the boiling water; let it
cool before adding the sugar. Beat the whites of
the eggs with one tablespoonful of sugar, and
spread on the top of the pie.
	Breakfast Muffins.—This recipe will be valued
by housekeepers as a dainty substitute for bread
at breakfast or tea:—Two eggs well beaten, with
a cupful of sugar and a lump of butter the size of
an egg; to this add one pint of milk, with a tea-
spoonful of soda, one quart of flour and two table-
spoonfuls of cream tartar, bake in muffin rings on
top of the range, or in gem pans in a quick oven.
	Good Recipe for Doughnuts.—Take three eggs;
beat well: have your pot on the fire and your lard
all melted ready to fry the nuts. Take three ta-
blespoonfuls of the melted lard, two heaping cups
of sugar, rolled; sift about three pints of flour,
put it in the bread bowl, make a round place in
the middle of the flour to hold your eggs; when
they are beaten, pour them into the flour; now the
sugar, then the melted lard, now a half teacup of
sour cream or buttermilk, into which put one heap-
ing teaspoonful of soda; beat up the milk and soda
till it foams; pour that among all the rest; now
put in ground cinnamon to suit, or any other spice
you like best. And now the secret comes. If
you want them good, don't mix quick, but take
your time, work and squeeze the eggs; lard, sugar,
&c., backward and forward through the fingers
until it will be stiff and make dough in spite of
you. When you fry, try and keep the grease at a
regular heat, and not too hot, but fry quickly.
Make the dough about as stiff as biscuit dough.
	To Preserve the Juices of Mince Pies wile
Baking.—When the pies are ready to bake, pre-
pare a thin piece of cotton cloth, one inch wide
and long enough to reach around the rim of the
pie. Wet the cloth and put it around the pie in
such a way that it will lap a little on the plate be-
neat and a little on the crust above, covering the
part where the upper and lower crust come to-
gether.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Never go to bed with cold feet. Never try to
sleep without being perfectly certain that you will
be able to keep them warm. To lie one night
with cold feet gives such a strain to the system as
will be felt seriously, perhaps ending in a fit of
sickness.
	Cure for Cancer.—A sticking plaster is put over
the cancer, with a circular pieece cut out of the
center a little larger than the cancer, and a small
circular rim of healthy skin next to it is exposed.
Then a plaster, made of chloride of zinc, blood
root, and wheat flour, is spread on a piece of mus-
lin of the size of the circular opening, and is applied
to the cancer for twenty-four hours. On remov-
ing it the cancer will be found as though burned
into it, appearing of the color and hardness of an


old shoe, and the circular rim outside of it will ap-
pear white and parboiled as if scalded by hot
steam. The wound is now dressed, and the outside
rim soon suppurates, and the cancer comes out a
hard lump, and the place heals up. The plaster
kills the cancer, so that it sloughs out like dead
flesh, and never grows again. The application is
painful, but the pain is of comparatively brief
duration, which any one so affected cheerfully
endures. Not a case has been known of the
reappearance of the cancer where this remedy has
been applied.
	Sympathy for the Sick.—How many precious
lives have gone out prematurely, just for want of
the care they needed! Even sympathy does much
toward relieving our sick friends; sometimes more
than medicine can do, and still how many in this
wide world of ours are entirely denied that sympa-
thy which they have a right to claim. We have
seen this, we are sorry to say, without going to the
army hospitals, where it must necessarily be the
the case generally; "can't you do without it?"
should never be spoken to a feeble invalid, when
he is just beginning to have a little craving for
some nourishment which may require a few cents
and some effort to procure for him. Life itself,
sometimes, depends on such trifles--not triffles to
the helpless ones by any means. S. L.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	YOUTH is a magic lantern, which sur-
rounds us with illusions which excite pleas-
ure, surprise, and admiration, whatever be
their nature.
	IT is with little-souled people as it is with
narrow-necked bottles—the less they have
in them the more noise they make in pour-
ing out.
	SLEEP is like death's younger brother,
and so like him that you should never dare
trust him without your prayers.
	A WISE man, being asked how old he was,
replied, "I am in health;" and being asked
how rich he was, said, "I am not in debt."
	WHATEVER may be the native vigor of
the mind, she can never form any combi-
nation from few ideas, as many changes can
never be rung upon a few bells.
	CREDIT is like a looking-glass, which
when only sullied by an unwholesome 
breath, may be wiped clean again, but if
once it is cracked it is never to be repaired.
	MONEY will feed gluttony, flatter pride,
indulge voluptuousness, and gratify sensu-
ality; but, unless it be an engine in the
hands of wisdom, it will never produce any
real joy.
	SINS are like circles in the water, when a
stone is thrown into it; one produces anoth-
er. When anger was in Cain's breast, mur-
der was not far off.
	OPINION is the main thing which does
good or harm in the world. It is our false
opinions of things which ruin us.
	THERE are three degrees of folly—to cen-
sure actions from which we are not exempt;
to discover faults in others, which we are
prone to over-look in ourselves; to solicit a
useless favour.
	WE admire wit as we do the wind. When
it shakes the tree, it is fine; when it cools
the wave, it is refreshing; when it steals
over the flowers, it is enchanting; but when
it whistles through the key-hole, it is un-
pleasant.
	WRITE it on your heart that every day
is the best day in the year. No man has
learned anything rightly till he knows that
every day is Doomsday.


112  WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	"WON'T you cut open a penny for me,
father?" said a little girl when she came
home from school one day. "Cut open a
penny! What do you want me to do that
for?" asked her father. "Cause," said the
little girl, "our teacher says that in every
penny there are four farthings, and I want
to see them."
	UPON being promised a penny by his
mother if he would take a dose of caster-
oil, a bad little boy obtained the money, and
then told his parent that she might "casther oil" into the street. He will make a
humorous newspaper paragraphist one of
these days.
	"COME my little fellow," said a Washing-
ton gentleman to a youngster of 5 years,
while sitting in a parlor where a large com-
pany were assembled, "do you know me?"
"Yeth, thir?" "Who am I? Let me here?"
"You ith the man who kithed mamma
when papa was in New York." Correct.
	SAID a distinguished politician to his son.
"Look on me! I began as an Alderman, and
here I am at the top of the tree; and what
is my reward? Why, when I die, my son
will be the greatest rascal in the city." To
this the young hopeful replied:—"Yes, dad
when you die—but not till then."
	A LITTLE fellow who was at a neighbor's
house about noon the other day watched
the preparations for dinner with a great deal
of interest, but when asked to stay and eat
something, he promptly refused. "Why,
yes, Johnny, you'd better stay," said the
lady, "why can't you?" "Well, cause,"
said the little fellow, "ma said I mustn't un-
less you asked me three times." They in-
vited him twice more right off.
	NOT CATCHING.—A lady schoolteacher in
a town in California, having an inordinate
dread of the small-pox, sent home a little
girl because she said her mother was sick
and had marks on her face. The next day
the girl appeared at the school-house with
her finger in her mouth, and her little bon-
net swinging by the strings, and said to
the teacher: "Miss——, we've got a leetle
baby at our house, and mother told me to
tell you 'it isn't catchin'.'" The teacher
said she was glad, and told her pupil to
take her seat.
	PAPA will soon be here, said mamma, to her
three year old boy, "what can Georgy do to
welcome him?" and the mother glanced at
the child's playthings, which lay scattered
in wild confusion on the carpet. "Make the
room neat," replied the bright little one,
understanding the look, and at once begin-
ning to gather his toys into a basket.
"What more can we do to welcome papa?"
asked mamma, when nothing was wanting
to the neatness of the room. "Be happy to
him when he comes!" cried the dear little
fellow, jumping up and down with eager-
ness, as he watched at the window for his
father's coming. Now—as all the diction-
ary makers will testify—it is very hard to
give good definitions; but did not little
Georgy give the very substance of a wel-
come?—"Be happy to him when he comes."


A FRENCHMAN stepped into a store the
other day; and asked to see some shoes.
The affable salesman succeeded in finding a
pair to suit his customer's fancy, and the
Frenchman asked the important question,
viz, the price he was expected to pay.
	"I can let you have these for six dollars;
they are the last of the lot."


"Seex dollar!" exclaimed the Frenchman,
"You meestake me, sare. I do not veesh to
purchase ze whole estableeshmong. Vat is
ze price of zis pair?"
	"Couldn't sell them for less than six dol-
lars; and for such a well-made pair of shoes,
I can assure you they are cheap."
	"Sheep! you call zem sheep? Vy, zat is
vare strange. Zey vessel I came to Ameri-
ca in zey call zat a sheep; ze animal wiz ze
wool on his back zey call sheep, and now
you call ze shoes sheep. Oh, I shall nevare,
nevare comprehend ze Engleesh language."
Yankee Dick.


[Column 1]
			AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I willsell all Raisins and
Currant and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared
[---] giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
		S.P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

[Line]

					NOTICE
	The undersigned begs to inform the public, she has,
sure and safe remedies for Disentery,Diarrhea, Coughs,
Canker, Cramp, Palpitation of the Heart, Liver and Lung
cmplaints, Bruises, Itch, Yellow Jaundice Female
Weaknesses of all kinds and premature births a specialty.
Ladies accommodated with rooms at my residence during
confinement.
	NICKOLINE,Exam. Midwife. 4 1.2 blocks South
of Street Car Station, 4th East St., 2nd Ward,

[Line]

			WALLIN & TANNER,
GF.OESDECK BLOCK, SECOND SOUTH STREET.
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
			HARNESS, SADDLES,
					AND
			HORSE BLANKETS,
			CHEAPER THAN EVER.

[Line]

			F. AUERBACK & BRO
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
				[Line]
		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
			Staple and Fancy
			DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the Old Fashioned House.

[Line]

		HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the store of the U.O. 14th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our,
		goods. we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Line]

			LITTLE & ROUNDY,
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
		23, MAIN STREET,

[Line]

			MICHELL & JAMES,
		Tinners, Gas Water&Steam Fitters
			AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

[Column 2]
			MILLINERY
			--------:o:--------
			Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. Seh is now prepared to ac.
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Milinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 1
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Line]

			Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

[Line]
		O. L. ELIASON.
		DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry;
	Second South Street, Opposite Walker
		Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
		ONE YEAR.

[Line]

		IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
	TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
			GO TO
W. HARRISON'S
	One door South of Constitution Buildings,
			Main Street.

[Line]

			THE KIND OF
		BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leatherm Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			S.P. CROMPTON, Supt.

[Line]
				LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
			them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment. CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, SUPT.

[Line]

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				or 
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
				---
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
				---
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				---
				H.E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

[Line]

		H. DINWOODY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
		FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		Feathers, Wall Paper,
			AND
		BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


[---]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
