VOL. 4	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1875.   No. 13.


CORNEEL

CORNEEL, dear girl, this is thy day of days!
	From maidenhood's fair path thou step'st aside;
Henceforth in woman's higher, mightier ways
	Thy walk in life must be—thou art a bride.

In bringing wishes tender, true and kind,
	As friendship to such scenes should ever bring,
No superfluities how'er refined
	I'd offer, nor one vain, unlikely thing.

It is not vain to wish that fruits and flowers
	May crown thy lot instead of thorns and weeds.
That which we plant and cultivate is ours,
	Else life were vain, and all good thoughts and deeds.

May Faith's bright star illumine all thy path; 
	Love's sweetest bossoms 'round thy heart entwine,
And all the wealth that Truth and Virtue hath
	For their firm votaries, be forever thine.

May he to whom thou givest all in trust,
	Who proudly, fondly, claims thee for his own,
Prove only nobler, purer and more just
	Than thy warm hopes or dearest dreams have shown.

Many would deem this wish unworth the while,
	For 'tis proverbial, man never proves
As free from folly, selfishness and guile,
	As is believed by woman when she loves.

I will admit that cases must be rare
	In which he falls not short; yet one I've known—
But I'll not tell it here—'twould seem unfair
	To talk of loves to-day except thine own.

God bless thee! This time-honored, sacred phrase
	Can best express the interest that I feel
For thee, on this, thy brightest day of days.
	God keep thee ever blest, beloved CORNEEL.
										LULA
Salt Lake City, Nov 29th, 1875.


OBSERVATIONS.

	At the time of honest love-making is the
brightest, happpiest and best period in al-
most every man's life, very likely one rea-
son why GOOD Mormon men are the best
men in the world, is that in their lives,
there are so often recurrences of those inter-
esting occasions.
	Were I a man—which, indeed, I am
thankful I am not—I know, or think I
know some things I would not do, and some
things that I would do.
	To me it appears stingy or cowardly to
see a man enter a theatre or other place of
amusement and seat himself for an even-
ing's enjoyment without a companion. It
looks as though he was too selfish to spend a
dollar for some one elses enjoyment, or be-
ing single, too faint-hearted to ask a lady to
accompany him. Therefore, going to places
of amusement alone, is one thing I should
avoid.
	I would never seek fame as a politician.
For a man to allow his name to be published
as a candidate for office, is apparently, giv-
ing an invitation for every envious, jealous
person to say all the unkind and disagreea-
ble things about him that they can think of.
I should not like to be talked about as poli-
ticians of the day are.
	There are other things which I would
not be guilty of as a man. And among the
things I believe I would do, are the follow-
ing:
	I would convince myself that I could
work at some useful employment, and earn
means wherewith to support a family.
Then I would marry not one wife only, but
half a dozen or more of the dear, good girls


I know; provided they could see that I was
the right man for them.
	I would find time to speak pleasantly to
my wives and children, would encourage
them to improve in all good things instead
of making mere worldly drudges of them-
selves, and by my example, teach and help
them to be cheerful, grateful and happy.
	I would not expect nor want any member
of my family to stay home from meeting on
Sunday to provide for my comfort, but
would feel that all the rest should enjoy the
same privileges that I did.
	It should be the grand aim of my life to
be a medol husband, and father; and being
this, I should be all that God requires of
His servants I think.
					MAUD LILY.


For the EXPONENT.
		LIVE FOR SOMETHING.

	Thousands of women are born, breathe,
live, move and pass off the stage of life,and
are heard of no more; why? They did no
good to the world while in it, none were
blessed by them; none could point to them
as their benefactors, not a line they ever
wrote, not a word they spoke, not a good
deed they performed, could be recalled, and
so they perished from the memory of their
cotemporaries. What value is such a life?
Its possessor has suffered the golden days of
her probation to pass by unimproved, and
her light has gone out in darkness.
	My sisters, let not this be the case with
us, but let us seek to do good, and benefit
each other, and let us do all that ever lays
in our power to build up the church and
kingdom of God.
	My young sisters you have life before you,
do not squander it foolishly; make up your
minds while young to live for something,
understand that you have a mission given
you, and be determined to fill it worthily;
and always reccollect that you cannot be
truly great unless you are truly good; and
make it your constant study to do all the
good you can. You may be inexperienced
and not very widely known, but you can
extend the circle of your acquaintance and
influence by good deeds, and wherever you
go, you can carry an influence with you that
will inspire others with good resolves and
determinations to follow your example. Do
this, and you will write your names on the
hearts of your generation, in letters that
will never perish, and you will enter upon a
career of ever-increasing happiness and
glory.
				JANE E. VANTASSEL.
	First Ward.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN A Roman Catholic Church in Brooklyn,
very recently, 9,000 pennies were deposited
in the alms-box one Sunday.
	The CENTENNIAL Exhibition, at Phila-
delphia, will be opened May 10th, 1876.
and will remain open every day, Sundays
excepted, until November 10th. 
	DENMARK HAS made one grand step, in
social improvement and equalization of sex,


by special act of the Danish government.
The National University at Copenhagen is
open to women, upon the same conditions
as to men, with all lectures, examinations,
degrees and diplomas.
	BY THE death of the Vice President, the
duties of that office devolve upon Thomas
W. Ferry, Senator from Michigan, who was
elected president of the Senate in March
last.
	ASSOCIATE JUSTICE John Wells of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, died Nov.
23rd, at Salem, Mass. after a lingering ill-
ness. He was fifty-nine years of age.
	MOUNT HOLYOKE Seminary furnishes a
great number of wives for foreign mission-
aries. The training raceived at that insti-
tution must certainly be of a nature calcu-
lated to inspire heroism, fortitude and great
strength of character. All these requisites
being highly essential in those who would
make the sacrifice of home and friends, for
the sake of duty to their fellow creatures.
	VICE PRESIDENT Wilson died at half-past
eight, a. m., Nov. 22nd, after an illness of
about twelve days. He seemed much better
that morning, and expressed himself, so to
his friends and attendants; he died without
a struggle. Throughout New England there
is said to be every manifestation of sorrow.
Flags are at half mast in all the large cities,
and bells tolled in many of them.
	THE RENOWNED Mlle. Titiens was born
in Hamburg in 1834. Her parents were
natives of Hungary and were of the labor-
ing class. She is herself, at the present
time, immensely wealthy, and her mother
and sisters reside with her at St. John's
Wood, surrounded with all the elegancies
and luxuries wealth can procure. She is
said to be beneficient and hospitable.
	A SMALE volume called "Terpsichore" is
about to be published in Paris. The intro-
duction is by Mlle. Rita Langalli, the pre-
miere danseuse of the opera. She speaks
feelingly of the decadence of the grand
ballet, and says the cause is, the ballet is
now chiefly used as a divertissement to the
opera. She speaks of the deficiency of cos-
tume, at the present time, like this: "It is
not for nothing that the tulle of which our
skirts are made is called tulle-illusion. By
abandoning these skirts, and by substituting
for them flesh-colored drawers charm and
illusion are alike dispelled."


A LITTLE boy wanted to borrow his aunt's
dog for a moment, and asked her to let him
have a piece of string so that he could lead
him. "What are you going to do with
him?" said the good lady. The boy hesita-
ted for a moment, and then said, "Well,
you see a boy round the corner bet me his
dog was a larger dog than yours." "Well,"
said the aunt, "suppose it turns out that his
dog is the larger one?" "Then," said the
nephew, "you'll lose your dog."
	When that little boy becomes a grown up
man we predict that he will be a great bank-
er. He evidently understands the princi-
ple of modern banking—borrow somebody's
dog and bet it against something else.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Nov 13th, 1875, was presided over by Miss
E. R. Snow in the absence of President Mrs.
M. I. Horne. After the usual opening ex-
ercises and reading of minutes, Miss E. R.
Snow gave an interesting account of her
recent mission to Box Elder County, and of
the meetings she had held with the sisters
in the towns and settlements of that county.
She said there was a feeling of great inter-
est manifested among the sisters to engage
in every domestic pursuit which would tend
to promote HOME INDUSTRIES and cause us
to become self-sustaining as a people.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, gave a similar ac-
count of her mission to Sanpete County,
and of the meetings among the sisters and
the general good feeling prevailing in that
part of the Territory. Expressed herself
much gratified in associating with people
who desired to serve God and build up His
kingdom. Many young sisters arose and
spoke and were seemingly inspired with
earnestness and a desire to live lives of
usefulness.

	13th WARD, Nov. 22nd, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request, I endeavor to give you some
account of our Relief Society. We cannot
boast of numbers attending our meetings,
but of the faithful few, who are always on
hand and ready to assist in sustaining
HOME INDUSTRIES, or anything else that
will tend to the building up of the kingdom
of God. The manufacture of hats and bon-
nets from our own braided straw, under the
superintendence of Sister Rumell, is in a
flourishing condition—she has also on hand,
some excellent samples of ladies' felt hats,
made by Brother Shelmadine of the Eigth
Ward. The sisters generally are desirous
to patronize HOME MANUFACTURE, and to
become united in their efforts to this end.
Some slight changes with regard to the days
of meeting may be partly the cause of the
non-attendance of some. But as we are
about to renew our covenants by re-baptism
trust that we shall realize the necessity of
being prompt in our duties and more de-
voted to the cause we have espoused, that
we may eventually be numbered with the
wise virgins, with oil in our vessels and our
lamps trimmed and burning when our Lord
shall come. Our present officers are Mrs.
Rachel R. Grant President, who is ever
faithful in counsel, and ready to administer
to the wants of the poor and needy, assisted
by her faithful Counsellors Mrs. Bathsheba
W. Smith and Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. Eliz-
abeth H. Goddard Secretary, and Mrs. Eme-
line B. Wells Assistant Secretary and Presi-
dent of Teachers, Mrs. Relief Attwood
Treasurer, Mrs. Mary Musser having resign-
ed that office. Your valuable paper is read
with pleasure as well as profit by many of
the sisters. That it may continue to in-
crease in interest as well as other home pro-
ductions is the earnest prayer of,
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
	ELIZABETH H. GODDARD.

	SPANISH FORK, Nov. 10th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Sisters Snow, Howard, Barney, and Sister
Horne visited us last July, and held meet-
ings, giving some excellent instructions up-
on the duties of the sisters of the Relief
Society; showing the necessity of our be-
coming a self-sustaining people; encour-

[Column 2]
aged all to faithfulness in the kingdom of
God. The Relief Society having been or-
ganized in two branches, it was thought
best to organize them in one Society, which
was done, by electing Sister Mary Ferguson
President, Sisters Margaret Miller and Isa-
bel Rockwell Counselors, Alexandrine Snell
Secretary, and Caroline Pace Treasurer. Af-
ter the organization, Sister Snow spoke
very encouragingly, giving many instruc-
tions. We had a general time of rejoicing,
the spirit of God being abundantly mani-
fest upon the speakers and hearers, and we
have since felt our faith strengthened, and
a renewed determination to do all we can to
forward the work in which we feel so
much interest.
	Financially our Society is progressing,
and there seems to be a good spirit among
the people, and we earnestly pray that the
blessings of our Heavenly Father may rest
upon our efforts to do good. July 2nd, the
time of our uniting, the amount in the treas-
ury of both Societies, there was $263.80.
Received by donation $45.89; Profit on la-
bor $20.11; disbursed to assist the poor
$45.45; leaving a balance in the treasury of
$284.35.
	ALEXANDRINE SNELL, Sec't.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	As I sat musing on the subject of prayer
my thoughts were these; I wonder if the
Saviour's prayer had any reference to me
when He taught His disciples to pray, as
given by Matthew, sixth chapter, twelvth
verse: "Forgive us our debts as we forgive
our debtors;" it is continued in the four-
teenth and fifteenth verses. Again, can I
pray for our enemies thus: "Father, forgive
them for they know not what they do," as
given by St. Luke, twenty-third chapter
and thirty-fourth verse? And is it possible
that I can go and be reconciled to whom I
may have ought against? I wonder if I
can do by my neighbor as I wish her to do
by me, for that would lead me into the
UNITED ORDER. Especially I should love
my neighbor as myself. Here was a mo-
ment's pause. Then arises another reflec-
tion on the capacity of woman, and I ask
who am I? I wonder if man is the head of
the woman as Christ is the head of the
Church; and I wonder if Peter had any al-
lusion to us in this dispensation, as given
in his first Epistle, third chap., sixth verse,
showing forth the manner in which Sarah
acknowledged Abraham, and says: "Whose
daughters ye are as long as ye do well, &c;"
then teaches the husband how to treat the
wife that their prayers be not hindered. I
thought how I should love to be an heiress
of that ancient worthy, and if so I must do
as she did, and acknowledge Plural Mar-
riage and be submissive as she was. I ask
myself, do I, through omission, have need
of re-baptism and a newness of life? Am I
trying to the best of my ability to help to
rear and care for a little kingdom? and al-
though weak in the flesh, do I with forti-
tude endure trials, which are but a bubble
in comparison to eternal life? Finally, is
my course onward in the faith once delivered
to the saints?
	To reduce all its precepts to practice is
my desire truly.
							M. A. B.
	Oxford, Nov. 15th, 1875.


A teaspoonful of powdered borax, dissolved in
a quart of tepid water, is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere or alpaca.


GRANTSVILLE, Nov. 15th, 1875.

DEAR EXPONENT :

	I am disgusted with the maudlin senti-
ments expressed by the generality of writ-
ers upon the rights and wrongs of women,
Mormon women especially.
	If the women of Utah were as much
abused as thousands upon thousands of wo-
men outside of Mormonism, we would rise
enmasse and take vengeance in our own
hands, and punish the men as they deserve.
	Some of the Journals affect to pity the
down-trodden women of Utah, pretending
to believe we dare not speak for ourselves.
Others that we are too ignorant to be able
to do so. Others again, that we are the
off-scouring of the various nations from
which we have been gathered.
	In answer to the first supposition, is it to
be believed that the women who have shown
faith in their religion, such true heroism of
character, and the fortitude to cross the vast
plains when there was no Railroad to fetch
them, but had to trust in the Almighty and
their husbands and brethren for their safety,
are of a nature to succumb to injustice?
Many of those women had to walk the
most of that thousand miles, and did it
without complaining. Women that would
do this would dare to do anything that they
knew to be right; there was very little sen-
timent in that journey, it was stern, hard
reality as the writer knows. It would take
all soft nonsense out of any woman, and
very likely make a Helen McGregor of her.
	Secondly, that we are too ignorant. By
this assertion I suppose they would have it
believed that the majority neither read nor
write, in fact know nothing, Webster's defi-
nition of ignorance being a want of knowl-
edge, illiteracy. This I boldy deny. The
women of Utah taken as a whole, will sur-
pass, in useful knowledge, the same num-
ber of women in any State or Territory in
the Union.
	The third accusation—that we are the off-
scouring of the various nations from which
we have been gathered. If this is true
those nations are in splendid condition,
for purer women do not exist on the face of
the whole earth. Mormon women don't
employ monsters like Fortmeyer and Davis,
shame on a community that dare not hang
such wretches, but let them escape, to run
at large to continue their fiendish work.
Talk about Mormon depravity, when you
cannot punish the worst of criminals, when
you have depraved women by tens of thou-
sands, and physicians, men and women,
employed in the most wicked practices,
you dare not punish lest respectable people
should be exposed.
	Bah! I am sick of such twaddle. If you
would learn the Mormon creed. "Mind your
own business," it would improve you
vastly.
							MARY.


To Iron Velvet Ribbon.—Dampen the under
side slightly and draw it back and forth over a hot
stovepipe until the velvet is quite dry. A still
better plan—though in winter not always conveni-
ent—is to lay a wet piece of cotton cloth on a hot
flat-iron placed upside down, and while the steam
is rising from it draw the underside of the velvet
lightly backward and forward over the wet cloth.
	To prevent the smoking of a lamp, soak the
wick in strong vinegar, and dry well before you use
it; it will then burn both sweet and pleasant, and
give much satisfaction for the trifling trouble of
preparing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FINALLY NIGHT COMES, BLESSED
			NIGHT.

When the little feet cease their patter, the tongue
		their clatter.
	Hands and eyes so softly close,
Instead of riot, all is quiet
	The dear ones sink in sweet repose.

And then poor "Query" feels so weary,
	Mind and body, both are tired,
So gathers flowers, from other powers
	And sips the honey so much required.

Oh! gift of Heaven, to mortals given
	The gift to read and understand;
Oh! greater gift, the power to sift
	The truth from error at command.

Oh! blessed treasure, the power at pleasure
	Our thoughts and ideas to portray,
Be mine to power these gems to gather
	To beautify my life each day.

Taylorsville Nov.14th 1875.
							QUERY.


For the EXPONENT.
		HINTS TO MOTHERS.

	It is a dark picture that has no bright
tints, no redeeming features to cheer and
gladden the eye, a melancholy life where
no sunshine enters to brighten up the
weary struggle through this world; and in
this continual stretch of both mind and
body, how much of sunshine may the ten-
der mother weave in, if she will catch the
sunbeams as they come, and always be
ready to see "the brightness through the
cloud." This is really making our own
heaven as we go along. In this kingdom
we have many encouragements and advan-
tages, that our poor sisters of the world do
not possess. I have often wondered how my
mother lived and endured the hardships
she did, and reared so large a family with
so little to hope for in the future. And
here, I think is one advantage of plurality;
the mother knows well that she cannot
claim but a portion of her husband's time
and attention, and with none the less respect
and affection for him, she will naturally
seek more the companionship of her children
as they come to years of understanding.
And if she is a true saint and mother they
will in no wise suffer by this closer tie
which will spring up between them. She
will be more sure to understand the nature
of her children, and better able to judge
for them. Confidence and sympathy will be
engendered and where entire confidence
exists between a mother and her boys, as
well as girls, there is not much danger of
anything very wrong; her wise judgment
and, far-seeing affection will ward off the 
approach of evil.
						QUERY.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	The Reverend Phebe A. Hanaford of
Jersey City, recently exchanged pulpits
with her son, the Rev. H. A. Hanaford,
Little Falls, New York.
	MISS BRES, of New Orleans, who gradu-
ated not long since at a Medical school in
Paris, has been appointed physician to the
Sultan's harem at Constantinople.
	JENNIE S. Clark, business manager of the
"Golden Dawn," San Francisco, who has
been suffering from ill health for some time
past, is now sufficiently recovered to resume
her work.
	ANOTHER WOMAN'S paper has been started
in Marshaltown, Iowa, called "The Ladies'
Bureau," by Miss Mattie Sanford. One of
the best lady students at the State Univer-
sity is to be a correspondent.


MISS LIND, a graduate from the Royal
 Gymnasium at Stockholm, has recently
opened a class in Tremont Street, Boston,
called the "Swedish Gymnasium." It is
very highly recommended by the Woman's
"Journal;" indeed, our opinion is that more
of this sort of physical training would be
effectually beneficial to women and girls.
	MRS. MARY Small, who died in Ludlow,
Maine, Oct. 6th, at the advanced age of
ninety-four years and six months, probably
had a larger number of descendants than
any other person in the country. She was
the mother of twelve children, all of whom
lived until recently. Nine are still living.
At the time of her death she had sixty
grand-children, one hundred and fifty-seven
great-grand children and twenty-five great-
great-grandchildren.
	MISS WARNER, author of the "Wide,
Wide World," and other writings, recently
conducted the services at her father's fu-
neral; two clergymen were sent for, but as
neither of them came, the daughter knelt
by the coffin and offered a prayer. A lady
who could control her feelings under such
peculiar circumstances, and lead out in this
capacity, so contrary to custom and the pre-
vailing tone of society, must possess un-
common strength of character, and is worthy
of commendation.
	A ROYAL LINGUIST.—The Queen of Hol-
land, who recently gave a reception to the
Association of the Reform of Laws of Na-
tions, assembled at the Hague, has remark-
able linguistical powers. A correspondent
of the London "Echo," who was present,
says: "It is said that the queen can address
her guests, and that with fluency, in every
language spoken in Europe; and on one oc-
casion, on receiving the Hungarian dele-
gates of some learned society, among many
others who attended her majesty addressed
these gentlemen in Latin, pleading as an
excuse that she had not studied the lan-
guage of Hungary. Her skill as a linguist
was put to the test to-day. I had the good
fortune to be near her majesty at the time,
and satisfied myself that she was able to
speak with fluency to the German, French,
English, Danish, Italian, Spanish, Russian
and Swedish delegates."


SINGULARITY.

	The essence of singularity is the dispro-
portionate development of some essential
characteristic or quality. Almost any of
the common attributes of human nature
may so predominate in an individual as to
place him beyond the sympathy of men in
general, and mark him out as a peculiar or
singular person.
	It by no means follows that because a per-
son is singular, he is thereby an offender
against morality, and unworthy of respect.
Singularity is more apt to proceed from un-
due pride and egotism than from any baser
instinct, and leads to a manner and to habits
which are rather above than below the ordi-
nary level. Sterne's saying that a singular
person may be compared to a monster—more
admired than esteemed—indicates the dis-
tinction which usually attaches to singular-
ity.
	A refined conscientiousness will render a
person peculiar in the easy-going society of
the day. Polished manners and good taste
often seem to justify the charge of singu-
larity against educated men. Emerson re-
marks, in one of his essays, that if good
manners were not established, an original
gentlemen would be sure to invent them.


The inventor in such a case would certalniy
be charged with singularity.
	But persons who get the name of being
singular or eccentric usually do so through
some traits less admirable than these. A
reserved demeanor and way of life; indif-
ference to the influence of neighborhood
and public opinion; carelessness and non-
conformity to customs and fashions; self-ab-
sorption and an obstinate persistence in un-
social habits. Such characteristics will gen-
erally be found to have been derived in
early life from a blow to ambition or affec-
tion, or from an inherited tendency. In
nearly all cases singularity is to be deplored
rather then condemned, and the victim is
generally worthy of both respect and sym-
pathy.
					JOHN ELDERKIN.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE—The difficulty
of applying rules to the pronunciation of ourlanguage may be illustrated in two lines
where the combination of the letters ough
is pronounced in no less than seven differ-
ent ways, vis, as o, uf, of, up, ow, oo, and
ock.
	Though the tough cough and hiccough
		plough me through;
	O'er life dark lough my course I still
		pursue.
	CORSETS.—In very young girls, stays and
all articles of attire which press unequally
upon parts of the body, and all ligatures
and bandages, should be avoided; for instead
of offering support to a weak frame, stays
and bandages favor deformity. It is a cu-
rious but undoubted fact, that the majority
of deformed persons are of the female sex,
a circumstance which probably is owing to
the restraints in dress imposed upon that
part of the species, from the mistaken no-
tion that the delicacy of their bodies requires
artificial support.
	CURIOUS EFFECTS OF MUSIC.—Rosseau
speaks of a lady of rank upon whom the ef-
fects of music produced involuntary fits of
laughter. Mankind, however, are not the
only beings subject to its influence. It has
been remarked long since, the excitement
produced on horses by the sound of horn or
trumpet. Bernadin de St. Pierre observed
the spiders in the corners of rooms where
music was being performed, never failed
of approaching the place occupied by mu-
sicians, and that they never returned to
their webs until the sounds of the instru-
ments had ceased. Sir Everard Home has
observed the effect of a piano upon a horse
or elephant, and he found that the attention
of these animals was completely fixed by
the higher notes of that instrument, and
that their fears broke out from the moment
the lower notes were touched. An experi-
ment of a similar nature was made at Paris,
upon two young elephants, male and fe-
male; an orchestra composed of eleven exe-
cuted various pieces of music. The first ef-
fect produced upon the animals was that of
astonishment; but they very soon showed
by their motions the pleasure they felt.


"HERBERT," said a perplexed mother,
"why is it that you're not a better boy?"
"Well," said the little fellow, soberly, look-
ing up into her face with his honest blue
eyes, "I suppose that the real reason is that
I don't want to be!" We think the child
gave the real reason why all of us, big and
little, are not better than we are.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, 
								Editors.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
T[--]ms: One copy one year, $3.00, one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers: WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah. 

	SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1875.


RESTORATION OF CONFIDENCE.

	If through the medium of the great reforma-
tion, now in progress among the Latter-day
Saints, the lost confidence can be restored, in-
deed a most desirable object will be attained.
But going to meeting, praying and singing, it
must be remembered, will not accomplish it.
	Through slothful habits into which the peo-
ple have fallen, carelessness in business con-
cerns, want of punctuality, failing to discharge
important duties—for all duties should be con-
sidered important ones—through these open-
ings the confidence which existed among the
Saints in the early times of the latter-day
work, has slipped away. And only by carefully
and conscientiously making all possible repara-
tions, and evincing a steadfast determination
to deal cautiously and justly in future, can that
confidence he won back or the broken bars of
its receptacles be mended.
	There is no danger of any individual trusting
the Lord too far, for He never disappoints
those who fully trust Him, never fails to fulfill
every obligation on His part, never forgets His
promises to His children be they great or small.
But men and women have not reached that
standard of completeness, and are liable to dis-
appoint themselves and each other to forget
their promises, or promise more than they can
perform. Hence the necessity of so much care
and exactness in all the relationships of life.


THE BLESSINGS.

	In the wise providences of God, it has not
been ordered that all His children should be
rich or beautiful, or possessed of master intel-
lects, but through His mercies, all may be
useful, grateful and happy—which is a thou-
sand times better.
	Every man and every woman has the privi-
lege of being truthful, honest and virtuous, if
such is the desire of the heart.
	All parents have the right to direct their
children in the way of honorable life, and of
eternal salvation and exaltation, and all chil-
dren have the right to walk therein.
	The poorest in the land may feast their eyes
and imaginations upon the beauties of nature
and of art—what higher source of enjoyment
of this kind do the wealthiest possess?
	Best of all, in prayer, in praise, or in partak-
ing of the holy sacrament, the one in plainest,
simplest apparel can approach just as near the
throne of Grace, and feel exactly as much free-
dom as the one who is richly and handsomely
attired.
	Thus the rarest and most choice blessings are
free to all. And for those who are faithful in
the discharge of their duties, though they may


feel the want of some of the minor comforts of
life now, there is much satisfaction in the best
assurance that when all blessings have been
earned there will be no lack, every want will
be supplied.


MOTIVES.

	It is often really motive rather than action
that proves a person good or bad. An evil man
may have it in his heart to do a great wrong,
but it his way should be hedged up, so that the
commission of the wicked design were rendered
impossible, he would still be guilty, though his
guilt might remain a secret. So also on the
other hand, a heart may be filled with good
desires, and ready at all times to do whatever
seems for the best, but for hindrances and want
of opportunities, may accomplish but little.
Still the heart is just as good, its motives jnst
as pure, though they may be uuknown.
	It frequently appears that persons are led by
impulse or instinct to do good or bad deeds, with
no motive whatever. In such cases, where
good is the result, certainly all the glory should
be ascribed to the Most High. And where evil
is accomplished, there should be more pity than
blame attached to the author.
	Thus it is right to regard a principle for its
own sake, because a principle gives its value to
a noble action, not the action to the principle.


[Column 1]	
	ALMOST A SUCCESS.

	"In this perverted age
	Who most deserves, can't always most engage:
	So far is worth from making glory sure,
	It often hinders what it should procure."
	One of the most frequent occurrences of hu-
man life is to just fall short of attaining what
one most earnestly desires. What punishment
could be greater to the sensitive mind, than to
launch forth rich with expectation, with al-
most a certainty in one's heart that success was
in full view, and when just about to grasp it,
seemingly secure in its possession, find they
have only clasped the cloud, the shadow, the
covering that hid the real object from sight.
	These baffled hopes, these ruined expecta-
tions, are harder to bear than that which was
anticipated a failure from the beginning; a
persistent struggle for strength with that which
was stronger, and withstands all the unwearied
efforts for success.
	Building up before the mind a fabric suited
to the capacities and energies, and shaping
molding and designing every available resource
towards this object; bending and persisting to
bring all the powers in one's possession to make
this formation real; to grasp with ardent and
enthusiastic aspirations every energy and fac-
ulty with such an earnestness of effort as de-
serve success by virtue of their very sincerity,
it is scarcely to be believed that they cannot
one day attain to the heighth of their ambi-
tion, and realize the positive fulfillment of their
purpose.
	These things often remain forever, to poor
short-sighted mortals, unanswered puzzles,
unsolved problems, enigmas which all the
world fail in solving satisfactorily.
	Persons who seemed to possess every requi-
site for success, quick, clever, brilliant, ener-
getic, persevering, whose courage never seems
to flag, ready with all ardor to meet any and
all obstacles in their pathway, yet without
knowing the reason why, never reach the goal
for which they are striving; they have almost
completed what they desired, but not quite;
just at the very moment of possession it eludes
their grasp, and mocks them in the distance.

[Column 2]

They can only show as the result of their la-
bors, the ruined chaos of hope's unsatisfied, de-
sires unrealized; and for it all no analysis of
causes, which will make the position a failure
of a positive nature.
	The question often arises, Was it for want of
faith, a certainty in the heart of the individual
that the purpose they wanted to accomplish
was that for which nature had adapted them?
If so, how utterly useless to persist in attempt-
ing to attain to that against which Nature her-
self had set an unalterable decree: to ignore
the capabilities for action, and for the practical
performance of work which one neither had
brains nor tact to carry into execution, but had
become enamored of, through the seemingly
easily attained suecess of another, whom, per-
haps, Nature had designed for the very groove
into which they so admirably fitted.
	"What man has done man may do," is often
quoted, and similarly also with woman, what
woman has done she may do, but successfully
or otherwise, according to the adaptation of
circumstances, opportunities, capacities and all
the minute details of time, place, surroundings
and last, but most important of all, the inher-
ent qualities of the individual yourself.
	A little more of this and a little less of that
faculty or tendency, and the person would have
been able to make all things balance in pro-
per proportions; or a little paring off or pinch-
ing, squeezing and pushing and perhaps they
might have been securely and snugly ensconced
in the coveted position.
	Such persons never gain any acceptable pop-
ularity except among personal friends, those
who understand the sincerity of their motives
of exertion, and seeing their many good quali-
ties, overlook all deficiencies, and accord them
private sympathy. But how is it with the pub-
lic? How do they regard these unfortunate
speculators, geniuses, office-seekers, book-mak-
ers, authors, etc.? They criticise, judge, con-
demn, yet cannot tell where the fault lies.
	But let one who has not half the real merit
or true genuine excellence, by some clever
means attain the object of his ambition, mount
to the top of the ladder by a mere stroke of
good luck and popularity awaits him, is even
forced upon him. They have struck the public
fancy, toned in with the prevailing spirit of the
times, consequently have ascended in a blaze
of glory, become popular by the universal ac-
cord of the majority, and are perhaps unable
themselves to realize how, or by what wonder-
ful stroke of good fortune they are thus the re-
cipients of the world's favor and praise:
	"It is success that colors all in life;
	Success makes fools admired, makes villains honest.
	All the proud virtue of this vaunting world
	Fawns on success and power, howe'er acquired."

	Children who were carefully trained and edu-
cated in the fight of the Gospel, who were al-
most convinced of the right, and by diligently
applying their hearts to an understanding of
the divine truths, might have had a safe and
sure guide, allow themselves to be allured by
something unreal, which presents to the eye a
more flattering appearance, and lose sight and
hold of that which would be to them "a savor
of life unto life," for the follies and foolish chi-
meras of the fancy, and drift away where there
is no firm foolhold, get beyond the limits of
trust and hope, into a region of doubt, and are
in danger of being stranded forever.
	In looking back, will they not experience the
remorse of conscience, that follows the losing
of the real and positive good, which was just
within their reach, but they exchanged for an
uncertainty which has breught them only sor-
row, regret and failure?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR J. L. Barfoot has resumed his 
former position as superintendent of the Desc-
ret Museum in this city. The Professor is a 
gentleman of learning and ability, and pecu-
liarly adapted to the position by his genuine
love of science.
	WEDNESDAY EVENING, Nov. 24th, there  was
a magical and musical entertainment at the
Salt Lake Theatre, given by Prof. St. Jean and
Mr. J. W. McKenzie.  The audience was tol-
erably large and the performance interesting to
those who are fond of fun and excitement.
	THANKSGIVING EVENING the regular dre-
matic performers as the Salt Lake Theatre
presented a fine holiday bill. The serio-comic
Irsh drama of "Ireland as it is" and a laugha-
ble commedietta, concluded with the illumi-
nated Fairy Fountain. The house was well
filled and the audience seemed to fully appre-
ciate the efforts made to please and entertain
them.
	WE ARE always pleased to announce to the 
public, any happy event concerning the pros-
perity of our friends and associates, and on this
occasion, we are especially gratified to have so
pleasant a subject to chronicle as one of the
most important eras in the life of our very dear
friend and business manager, Miss Cornelia H.
Horne, who was married, Monday noon,
Nov. 29th, to Mr. J. L. Clayton, son of Wm.
Clayton, Esq., of this city. May the choicest
of heaven's blessings rest upon them, and may
each succeding year find them more and more
devoted to each other, is our most sincere and 
earnest wish and prayer.
	THERE ARE complaints being made in many
of the country places, with regard to the irregu-
larity of the malls.  It seems very strange that
there should be such inattention on the part of
those entrusted with such and important public
business. We are acquainted with a lady who,
while recently on a visit to another country,
sent a letter of some importance home; return-
ing after a few days, she found that the letter
had not been received, and on inquiry at the
Post Office in this city, was told there was no
such letter. About a week after the letter
came, which ought to have arrived two weeks
earlier.
	A FEW of the "good sisters" and most inti-
mate friends of Mrs. Bathsheba Smith con-
vened at her residence on Thanksgiving Day,
in the capacity of a SURPRISE Party, think-
ing it one of the most appropriate ways of
spending a day set apart for public and general
thanksgiving. To contribute to each others
happiness is worthy the attention of all, who
value social life in a true light.
	It being the regular meeting day of the 
Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, and the ap-
pointment having been made at Mrs. B. Smith's
residence, after the usual opening excrcises the
meeting was dissolved into one of general in-
terest. Miss E. R. Snow was called upon by
the president of the meeting to deliver the 
opening address; she introduced the subject of 
the women of Utah being represented at the 
Centennial; she wished them to understand it
was not a sectional but national affair and she
wished all to use their utmost influence to give
the woman of Utah a fair representation Mrs.
E. A. Whitney make some excellent remarks
after which dinner was served in good taste,
and style. The utmost good feeling prevailed,
all, with one accord, feeling it had been truly a 
a day of thanksgiving.

[Column 2]
	AGAIN HAS the terrible fire field been raging
in this city, an a[---] [---]. On the
morning of the 16th of November, a fire broke
out in the upper story of the National Bank,
and consumed the whole terior of the build-
ing, the outside, being fire-proof, remained
standing.  The bank was owned by Walker
Bros., and was heavily insured; some adjacent
buildings were destroyed, which were not in-
sured; they were occupied as law offices, dwell-
ing rooms and stores, and the tenants lost
heavily. On Monday morning, Nov. 22nd, a
fire broke out in Howe and Davis' I on Foun-
dry, 17th Ward, which caused great loss of
property, and was not insured; many men were
also thrown out of employment in consequence
of this fire. Hon. W. H. Hooper headed a sub-
scription list with $500, President Young $1000,
Hon. G. Q. Cannon and others $100 for the same
object. Mr. Fairclough, the engineer in em-
ploy of Howe and Davis, was severely burned,
none others injured.


[Column 1]
ESSAY ON LITERATURE.

	Literature, as moderns understand the
term, comprises more especially all works,
of taste, sentiment, poetry, History and
eloquence; excluding abstract discussions,
mere-eruditions, positive sciences, mathe
matics &c.
	The field of literature, at the present day,
is a wide one; the multiplicity of books now
extant, afford facilities for the acquisition of
knowledge heretofore unequaled.
	In the past, there have been eras of re-
finement and art, which are plainly demon-
strated; but the press did not then, as now,
work for its perpetuity. In the so-consid-
ered barbaric ages, it is said the Egyptains
accumulated a very extensive library; the
burning of which is talked of even down,
to this day; and the ruthless Cailiff Omar
stigmatized as a vandal. Most bitterly has
it been regretted by all who desire to in-
form themselves concerning the customs,
education, morals, state &c., of society, as
they existed at the period. How much
might be known of that people by their
literature. Time was, not so long since,
when one newspaper was sufficient for the
demand in America; how different at this
present day. Numerous indeed have they
become, and though not always truthful, con-
sulted like an oracle by the masses of the
people.
	Societies for the gratuitious distribution
of the Bible and tracts of all kinds almost
thrust their books into the hands of the un-
willing and idle; true there is much that is
false and much that should be avoided if
possible, but truth will gain precedence;
much that is really bad, in contrast with the
good, makes its hideousness more manifest.
There is a vast amount of superficial read-
ing, most books contain chaff mixed with
the wheat, some even positive evil with
that which is good; but as my essay is not
upon reading discriminate or indiscriminate,
I will not intrude my ideas upon this subject,
or attempt to point out a selection for oth-
ers.
	"Books" says Dr. Channing "are the true
levelers, they give to all who right faithfully
use them, the society, the spiritual presence
of the best and greatest of our race.
	The whole world abounds in books, many
 of them by celebrated authors upon History,
music, poetry, oratory, and the drama; and
the cultivation of the intellect is at the
present time unparalleled. All this tends to
refinement of feeling and sentiment, more
especially music and poetry, the blending

[Column 2]
together of which is the most harmonious,
grand and sublime refinement possible of
atttainment, by mortals upon the earth. Elo-
quence charms also like music, and the pos-
sessor of it is truly mighty in power; to
seize upon the hearts of an audience, and
bind them for the time in willing captivity
in aid of belief or in spite of belief, with the
influence from within flowing outward with-
out consideration of one's self, above rude
criticism or apology, is more than enchant-
ment. Logic is necessary to carry power
and must form the strength of the dis-
course, but imagination may clothe it with
beauty, light up the eye, loosen the tongue,
and excite rapid and vehement declamation;
true eloquence embodies feelings as well as
facts.
	Poetry produces emotion—emotion elicits
thought. Shakepeare has been true to na-
ture in particularly portraying men at ease,
as well as in that far more difficult condi-
tion, men under the influence of the most
vehement passions; there are others who
stand prominently forward in the Dramatic
art; but none as yet have equaled the "Im-
mortal Shakespeare." We argue there is
much to be learned from the stage; it por-
trays human nature more vividly and forci-
bly than it is possible to make it, however
highly colored by books alone; consequently
it is a more effectual teacher, than any au-
thor unaided, can make himself. It opens
up a channel of thought, of feeling, and re-
finement of sentiment, entirely different
from solitary reading, even of the same ex-
pressions and sentiments. In times past, it
has been looked upon as a place for the en-
couragement of vice, and the engendering
of passions, but like all things else it re-
quires a high tone of cultivation, and there
is a bright prospect that the time is not far
distant when purity of sentiment, and the
strictest regard for morality, virtue and
chastity will prevail upon the stage; so
much has already been accomplished in
bringing about this wonderful change, in
the last few years, that none need despair
of its entire renovation.
	There is something singular in the fact,
that rarely indeed an author can give the
finest touches to the most exquisite senti-
ments of his own composition. He who can
most truly delineate character in acting,
can bring out all the most intricate and sub-
tle windings of the human mind as set
forth by the writer, is truly in his nature
and training artistic. How many most
beautifully written plays, are put upon the
stage only to be murdered by the actors.
How agonizing it must be to the author who
has expended time, money, energy, and
greater than all, thought, has studied hard
and earnestly to accomplish what his mind
had conceived, only to have some rough un-
cultivated and unappreciative mind cut up
and hack in pieces, what was in itself, so su-
premely grand and sublime.
	 There has been, at different times, a cer-
tain style, or class of literature which has
predominated in different countries and
among dissimilar classes of people, and
probably will be so until the end of time;
but wherever the highest tone of cultiva-
tion exists, the prevailing literature must
reach the same standard, and be accord-
ance with their fastidious tastes and senti-
ments.
	In the past, there have been some authors
of such power, who have spoke so convinc-
ingly to the hearts of the people that their
memory can never die, and whose works, it
is to be hoped, may never be out of date or
style, indeed they are forever immortalized;


and it seems doubtful whether any will ever
even in this highly cultivated and refined
age, attain such wonderful celebrity through
their powers of thought and expression;
people are too well off at the present day,
to cultivate the deepest powers of the mind
which the extremes of sorrow and poverty
call forth; they can never feel so deeply,
until they have suffered; there must be feel-
ings as well as facts; and to truly delineate
or portray feelings one must do so from ex-
perience. Who knows how to appreciate
truly and forcibly, unless they themselves
have passed through similar trials? Truly
strong human thinking upon any given sub-
ject or subjects, is necessary to stir the foun-
dation within us, and is capable of bring-
ing forth from the laboratory of the mind,
thoughts to sway a multitude of unthink-
ing. Alas that human beings capable of
thought should allow their natures to lie
dormant, and yet we see it every day.
	How many men and women have never
thought of studying themselves until they
were tried; sickness, death, ingratitude,
calumny, envy and slander will call forth
powers, thoughts and feelings that might
otherwise have slumbered on, unknown but
for this ordeal. Sorrow has its uses in mak-
ing us know ourselves; we must be put up-
on the rack, bound to the fiery wheel of an-
guish; ere we can understand the depths of 
our own intricate and wonderful nature. One
whose life has been all serene, cannot truly
commiserate others, or ingeniously sympa-
thize.
	As positive proof that sorrows, afflictions
and tribulations refine, cultivate and purify
the human heart, I would refer you to the
multitude whom John saw in his vision,
upon the Isle of Patmos, the hosts of the
redeemed, "who came up out of great tribu-
lation;" and also the example of the Sav-
ior "who suffered as never man suffered."
But perhaps you will say what has all this
to do with literature? I will answer you,
everything, for books, oratory, music &c.,
written and brought out under the influen-
ces of the most striking and forcible charac-
teristics, acting upon humanity, will have
a tendency to create a superior order of
minds and intellect and that is what the 
lovers of excellence in attainment, most
study and most desire, in an age of intel-
lectual advancement. To what extent the 
human mind is capable of cultivation has
never yet been decided; the most highly
gifted and intellectual persons are ready to
acknowlege there is an inexhaustible foun-
tain of knowledge yet unopened to them.
And in the future we can none of us dis-
cern what wonders may be unfolded to those
who having the advantages of the past ex-
periences of the great and wise; added to
their own indomitable energies and research,
shall cope with the light of intelligence to
understand the mysteries of the human
mind.
	Dec. 17th, 1874.    				 M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SLANDERING OF WOMEN.

	Perhaps the blackest crime of which man
can become guilty is the use of slanderous
remaks about women. We look upon the
man who trifles with the fair fame of women
as being a murderer of the foulest kind, and
one who should be shunned as you would a 
most venemous reptile. Never use a
woman's name at an improper time or in
mixed company. Never make assertions
about her that you think are untrue, or allu-
sions that you feel she herself would blush
to hear. When you meet with men who


do not scruple to make use of a woman's
name in a reckless and unprincipled manner,
shen them, for they are the worst members
of the community. They are men lost to
every sense of honor—every feeling of hu-
manity. Many a good and worthy woman's
character has been forever injured, and her
heart broken, by a lie manufactured by
some villian and repeated where it should
not have been, and in presence of those
whose lack of judgment urged them to cir-
culate the report. A slander is soon propa-
gated, and the smallest thing derogatory to
a woman's character will fly on the wings of
the wind, and magnify as it circulates, un-
til its enormous weight crushes the victim.
Respect the name of woman, for our moth-
ers, wives and sisters are women; and as we
would have their fair fame untarnished,
and their fair lives unbittered by slander's
vicious tongue, we should heed the ill that
our words may bring upon the mother, wife
or sister of some fellow-creature.—The Gol-
den Dawn.


[Column 1]
	SPLINTERS.

	GENERAL.
	Prof. Jenny, reporting of the resources of
the Black Hills, says the ground containing
gold covers an area of about 800 square
miles......There was a heavy shock of earth-
quake at Knoxville, Tenn., on the 12th Nov.
......The Seneca Fall works are going to
send a steamer to the Centennial; the whole
steamer will be nickel-plated......The mam-
moth hotel at St. Louis will be called the
Grand Hotel, situated at the corner of Grand
and Page avenues, and will occupy 24,000
more feet than the Palace Hotel in San Fran-
cisco......There are 143,000 steel pens, and
160,000 sheets of note paper, and two bar-
rels of ink used at Eastman College, Pough-
keepsie, N. Y., yearly—The Cashier of
the Western Union Telegraph Company, N.
Y., has confessed to misappropriating mon-
ey to the extent of $13,000 and lost in Wall
Street speculations......A remarkable book,
a fac-simile of an Egyptian medical treatise,
written in the 16th century B. C., has been
added to the Astor Library, N. Y., through
the liberality of Wm. B. Astor......An ori-
ginal picture by Rubens is now on exhibi-
tion at the Academy of Art at Rochester,
N. Y., and will be sent to the Metropolitan
Museum of Art in N. Y.—The one hun-
dred and sixteenth birthday of Schiller, the
poet, was celebrated by many German Soci-
eties in America and the Fatherland—A
new history of the United States, by George
Bancroft, is about to be published; it com-
prises the time from the Revolutionary
war down to the present day......The direct
cable has been laid successfully, after having
submerged in water fifteen months; the frac-
ture seems to have been caused by anchor or
grapnel. The U. S. Grand Jury at Chicago,
has indicted 60 persons for violation of the
whisky revenue laws......4,000 bottles of
wine were drank during the season at each
of the leading hotels in Saratoga.
	FOREIGN.
	Disastrous floods are reported to have ta-
ken place throughout England and Ireland
on the 14th and 15th of Nov., the river Fol-
ka near Dublin, burst its banks and sub-
merged thousands of acres......The Russian
government is engaged in a raid against so-
cial agitators, arrests have been affected in
several large cities, Moscow, St. Petersburg
and others......It is rumored the Spanish
Government have secret agents in New
York, taking recruits from among the for-

[Column 2]
eign population.....An Electrical Exhibition
is proposed to be held in Paris in 1877; at the
"Palais de l'Industrie, to illustrate the appli-
cation of electricity to arts, industry and
domestic economy......Terrible fights have
taken place at the polls in Peru, between
the adherents of Gen. Prado and Admiral
Montero......There is now in construction
near Dublin, Ireland, a mammoth telescope,
said to be the largest ever made; it is for
the new observatory at Vienna......A Brit-
tish expedition for the north-western coastof Africa, has sailed from England the last
month, to find a suitable harbor for a com-
mercial and missionary station......A paper
on the anteceedents of Wm. Penn, is being
prepared in England by William Blackmore,
founder of the Blackmore Museum at Salts-
bury, Eng. It is to be read in America dur-
ing the Centennial.
	PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Black, Byron's "Maid of Athens"
died recently at the age 76......Mr. Sothern
will fill a professional engagement in New
York, at a prominent theatre, commencing
next January......Miss Anna E. Dickenson
has a new lecture upon "Father Nathan,"
which she has written and will soon begin
to deliver......Lieutenant General Peterson
died recently, at Novogorod, Russia, aged
92 years, he was a veteran in the wars
against Napoleon......Miss Maggie Davis,
Daughter of Jefferson Davis, is shortly to
be married to Hoyes, cashier of the National
Bank, at Memphis Tenn.......W. E. Blodgett
Esq. a very wealthy and prominent citizen
of New York city died recently......Susan
B. Anthony had nine votes for Judge of the
Supreme Court, at the recent election in
Duchess County New York......An Ameri-
can girl won the gold medal at a recent ex-
amination at Brazil, Rio Janiero, recently......
Miss Nancy Valentine of Maryland, who is
one hundred years old, is a most remarkable
woman of her age; she never wore specta-
cles, and can thread a needle quickly, does
her own cooking spins yarn and knits stock-
ings for sale.


ENTRANCE INTO LIFE.

	It is doing a service to mankind to de-
stroy the prejudice which is generally en-
tertained that youth is educated when some
care has been taken of their infancy. This
prejudice, besides other bad effects of it,
suspends the zeal of that small number of
individuals in the middle ranks of life, who
wish to give their children the best educa-
tion they possibly can. From a false notion
that the minds of young persons are form-
ed at a very early period, they suffer them
to be their own masters at a time when
they stand most in need of a guide to di-
rect them in the course of the most import-
ant period of their education, by the wis-
dom of their counsels, the gentleness of their
insinuations, and the force of their example.
Few persons, in their infancy, learn the art
of employing and governing themselves;
and it is very difficult to learn it till the fac-
ulties of the mind are full-blown, and the
character has taken its true bias. When
young persons, therefore, are entering upon
the tempestuous ocean of human life, then
is the time they must be taught the pilot's
art, the manner of steering their course, so
as to avoid rocks and quicksands. A philos-
opher might begin to take the charge of
education at a time when the vulgar think
it is finished. Many persons are capable of
educating children in the ordinary method
—there are few, very few, capable of form-
ing men.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE VULGARITY OF LADIES.

	The Springfield Republican is shocked by
	"The Vulgarity of Ladies":
	There is a kind of assumption that Wo-
man is a neater, cleaner, more sensitive and
more refined creature than Man. It may
be so, but a lady will do many things which a
gentleman could not bring himself to do.
There is no gentleman in Springfield, for
instance, who would walk through Main
Street dragging part of his raiment on the
ground after him. Any gentleman would
consider himself defiled by such a perform-
ance, and probably would soon find himself
in the hands of the police and arraigned be-
fore a commission de lunatico. No gentle-
man would care to parade the street in such
attire that one hand was consequently occu-
pied in reefing the slack of his pantaloons,
after the manner of holding up skirts at the
present time. American gentlemen attach
the character of gambler to a man who
wears many jewels and rings, and recognize
a cognate vulgarity in the lady who simi-
larly overloads herself on occasions when
personal adornment is not in keeping. What
we mean is that there is a modesty and so-
briety of attire and even of bearing among
recognized gentleman which the recognized
lady has not yet attained.


SOMETHING ABOUT AUTUMN
			LEAVES.

	There are various methods of preserving
autumn leaves, to make them really beauti-
ful for ornamentation, but, like all other
things, it requires a combination of taste
and skill in gathering, preparing and ar-
ranging. A great deal depends upon the
selection of certain varieties. Maple, Hick-
ory, Quivering Aspen, Cottonwood, Pear,
Shrub and Oak are among the best. The
Sumac and Sassafras are very best. Gather
the leaves and iron them the same day, and
iron them dry; your iron must not be too
hot, and it will be necessary to have a good
supply of leaves, as many of them will be
spoiled in the ironing. For making up bou-
quets, bunches of leaves may be kept upon
the twigs. Leaves can be pressed and
dipped in melted wax, or ironed with a
waxed iron; but the colors will be more
brilliant if ironed and then varnished. If
you wish to ornament frames with them,
the frame need not be made very neatly as
the leaves will hide the imperfections.
Strips of pasteboard tacked upon the frame
are better as some leaves will not adhere to
wood. Put in your glass and picture first,
and fasten firmly with strips of muslin
pasted around the edge; common glue put
into a can and soaked in water over night,
and then boiled slowly, will answer; use it
thick and hot. Pour out a little in a saucer,
and dip in the lower part of the leaf; then
press it on the frame, leaving the upper half
loose; they will then curl slightly in time,
and have a much more natural appearance.
If the frame is oval begin at the top and
finish the bottom with a rosette of leaves.
On square frames groups of leaves can be
put on either side, or corners, as the taste
may suggest; for the centre of the group
use everlasting flowers, berries, or acorns.
	To preserve choice leaves, arrange on
cards, or form into bouquets on heavy pa-
per. Leaves for cards varnish on one side,
for bouquets on both sides. Ornamental
grasses and everlasting flowers should be
more extensively cultivated.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The Herald of Health gives a simple remedy
for the appetite for strong drink, an orange taken
regularly half an hour before breakfast.
	Persons inclined to catarrh, or who are subject
to it, should as much as possible avoid smoke and
dust. The sleeping room should have an open fire-
place, and should be well aired for an hour in the
early morning, and no draft permitted. The diet
should be nourishing, and alcoholic stimulants
avoided. Flannels worn from the middle of Aug-
ust, and increased in warmth as the season advan-
ces, give protection against the sudden changes of
temperature.
	To treat an ordinary case of sore throat, the
Herald of Health advises the wet pack, as the
simplest and best treatment. A linen cloth wrung
from cold water, and over this a knit or crotchet
band four feet long and four inches wide. Apply
this two or three nights in succession, unless it is a
a very serious case, then the pack should be kept on
during the day. If removed in the morning,
wash the throat in very cold water and rub dry
with a coarse towel and with the hand. This will
prevent taking more cold. The more friction used
the better, let it be a sort of squeezing of the parts
so as to affect the deep seated tissues. In this
way sore throats may be prevented from becoming
chronic.
	Sanitary Staircases: When so much is being
done for the preservation of life and health, it
would be well to remember that stairs are one
point to be considered, and one upon which very
little seems to have been thought. It is an abso-
lute fact that it takes "twenty times as much
strength to climb stairs as to walk on an even
surface, and if you double the speed, you quadru-
ple the force required for the effort. Staircases
should be constructed on sanitary principles;" the
rising step should not be more than six inches in
height, while the width of each step, should be
eleven or twelve inches. If the flight is long, there
should be frequent rests, otherwise the exhaustion
of continued effort will be great."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Wax for Sealing Fruit Cans.—Resin one pound;
lard, tallow and beeswax, one ounce each. Melt
and stir well together.
	Buchwheat Cake.—To make the cakes come off
nicely, rub the griddle with half a turnip, which
is considered by many much better than fat.
	Disinfectant.—Burn ground coffee on a hot
shovel as a disinfectant for sick-rooms, refrigera-
tors etc.
	To Glaze Linen.—This may be done by adding
a teaspoonful of salt and one of finely scraped
white soap to a pound of starch.
	Ink-stains in Books.—They may be removed by
wetting the spot with a solution of one ounce ox-
alic acid and half a pint of water.
	To wash Oilcloth.—soap should never be used,
but wash with milk and water and rub dry.
	Excellent China Cement.—This may be made
by stirring plaster of Paris into a thick paste of
strong gum-arabic. apply with a brush and let the
articles stand three days before trying them.
	Shrewsbury Cakes.—Mix a stiff paste with one
and a half pounds of flour, three fourths of a
pound of sifted loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of pound-
ed cinnamon, half a pound of warmed butter and
one egg, with a little milk. Roll it out thin, cut
round and bake in a slack oven.
	Tapioca Cream.—Three tablespoonfuls of tapi-
oca; cover it with water and let soak four hours;
then pour off the water, put in one quart of milk
and boil; then a teacupful of sugar and a little
salt. Stir until it begins to thicken. Pour into a


dish, make a frosting of the three whites of eggs
well beaten up and pour over the top. Eat cold.
	Custard Cakes.—One cup of sugar, one egg,
one-third of a cup of butter, put together and beat
to a cream; add one cup of sweet milk, two cups of
flour; one teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoon-
fuls of cream of tartar. Bake in jelly tins. Cus-
tard for inside, one and a half cups of milk, two
eggs, (reserving one white if frosting is desired) one
tablespoonful of corn-starch and one cup of sugar.
Flavor to suit the taste.
	Shellac Varnish.—Dissolve gum-shellac in alco-
hol; keep it well corked. This is said to be the
best waterproof varnish for boots and shoes known.
Applied to the soles when dry, it prevents the
leather from absorbing the water. It is unsurpass-
ed as a remedy for cuts and burns. It will make
wood water tight, and prevents its warping. It
will mend wood, crockery or glass. To keep
moths from furs, apply this varnish to a paper
bag. After the furs are in, seal the bag up with
the varnish and they are perfectly safe.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CHICAGO at the end of the year will have
10,000 more houses than at the beginning.
	THE richest woman in America is Miss
Kitty Wolfe. Her income is $1,000 a day.
	THE Lake Superior Mines since 1850 have
yielded nearly 7,000,000 tons of iron.
	A PEWTER Tea-set, formerly the property
of General Burgoyne, and marked with his
name, is now in possession of a family at
Gansevoort, Saratoga County, where it has
been for nearly a century. It was found
near the battle-field of Saratoga, in a hollow
stump.
	A GIGANTIC Statue of William the Con-
queror has been erected at Falaise. The
monument is surrounded by the statues of
the six first dukes of Normandy, and is the
work of M. Louis Rocket. It is reckoned
one of the finest equestrian statues in Eur-
ope, being several metres in height, and
seven thousand kilogrammes in weight. It
was executed in 1851, but lack of funds has
prevented till now this addition to the memo-
rials of the dukes of Normandy.


SILENT INFLUENCE.—It is the bubbling
stream which flows gently, the little rivulet
which runs along day and night by the
farm-house that is useful, rather than the
swollen flood or winding cataract. Niaga-
ra excites our wonder, and we stand amazed
at the power and greatness of the Creator.
But one Niagara is enough for the world,
while the same world requires thousands
and tens of thousands of silver fountains
and gently-flowing rivulets, that water
every farm and meadow, and garden, and
that shall flow on every day and every
night, with their gentle quiet beauty. So
with the acts of our lives. It is not by
great deeds, like those of the martyrs, that
good is to be done. It is by the daily and
quiet virtues of life—the Christian temper,
the meek forbearance, the spirit of forgive-
ness in the husband, the wife, the father,
the mother, the brother, the sister, the
friend, the neighbor, that it is to be done.


A DOCTOR returned a coat to a tailor be-
cause it did not fit him. The tailor seeing
the doctor at the funeral of one of his pa-
tients, said, "Ah, doctor, you are a happy
man."
	"Why so?" asked the doctor.
	"Because," replied the tailor, "you never
have any of your bad work returned on
hands."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.

	Let the golden cord of love bind together
life's threads into unity of purpose,and we
shall not have lived in vain.—Ex.
	LET us take care how we speak of those
who have fallen on life's field. Help them
up—not heap scorn upon them. We did
not see the conflict. We do not know the
scorn.
	PITY with its crystal drops is sweetening
many cups of life. And, in return, many a
grateful heart is laying on the palm of pity
the choicest gems of gratitude.
	SUCCESS IN LIFE.—Self-help alone makes
a man succeed. If he has confidence in
himself he may despise the world, because
he is sure to get on by his own determina-
tion to succeed.—Sir Robert Peel.
	HUMILITY is the first lesson we learn
from reflection, and self-distrust the first
proof we give of having obtained a know-
ledge of ourselves.—Gimmerman.
	TRUTH is the bond of union and the basis
of human happiness. Without this virtue
there is no reliance on language, no confi-
dence in friendship, no security in promises
and oaths.—Collier.
	'TIS the mission of hope to hold forth the
germ of many a fair yet fragile flower.
But they blossom forth or wither away, as
God may decree it, in close proximity to
the thorns of bitter disappointment.
	PATIENCE has its charms as well as its
reputed virtue. The charm is in its cheer-
fulness; the virtue in its quiet fortitude to
wait and trust. One adds to the other's
beauty just as a moonbeam resting upon a
placid sea adds to thebeauty of the peace-
ful waters.
	THE grand idea of toiling to rescue the
world from sin nevermastered a man's soul
without enlarging it, without stimulating all
his faculties to unprecedented vigor, unfold-
ing resources not yet imagined to be in him,
and producing a concentration and persever-
ance of action, which cannot fail of realiz-
ing great results.
	IT is the divine attribute of the imagina-
tion that it is irrepressible, unconformable—
that when the real world is shut out, it can
create a world for itself, and with a necro-
mantic power can conjure up glorious shapes
and forms and brilliant visions to make a
solitude populous, and irradiate the gloom
of a dungeon.—Washington Irving.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A LIGHT WEIGHT.—"Tom, you seem to
gain flesh every day; the grocery business
must agree with you. What did you weigh
last?" "Well, Jim, I really forget now, but
it strikes me it was a pound of butter"
	BARNUM'S chariot girl, who was to have
married the unfortunate Donaldson, has en-
tered a convent somewhere in Canada. She
is said to be very pretty, and very intellect-
ual. An intellectual girl in a chariot is
something of a novelty. A very un-chariot-
able paragraph.
	A GENTLEMAN was describing to Douglas
Jerrold the story of his courtship and mar-
riage—how his wife had been brought up
in a convent and was on the point of taking
the veil when his presence burst on her en-
raptured sight and she accepted him as her
husband. Jerrold listened to the end of
the story, and then quietly remarked, "she
simply thought you better than nun."


DR. Lawson, of the largest British Lunatic
Asylum, has weighed the brains of all the 
demented patients who have died under his
charge within the past five years. He says
that the knowledge thus gained shows that 
the brains of all lunatics do not lose in
weight by disease, and that they average
as large as those of sane persons.
	"WHEN I married," said ex-Chancellor of 
the Exchequer Lowe, at a London dinner
party, I declared, 'With all my worldly
goods I thee endow,' although I hadn't a 
shilling in the world." "But," chimed in 
the wife, "you had your splendid talents."
"Yes, my dear; but you know I couldn't
endow you with them," was the amiable
gentleman's reply.


WALLIN & TANNER,
GROESBECK BLOCK, SECOND SOUTH STREET.
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
HARNESS, SADDLES,
AND 
Horse Blankets,
CHEAPER THAN EVER.
F. AUERBACH & BRO
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRV GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes Ladies Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at 
the Old Fashioned House.
HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such 
brushes as we have not on hand.
Wm. H. MILES, Supt.
LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in 
Crockery, China  and Glassware,
	LE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.
MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James Box 306, Salt Lake City.
NEW 
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at 
S. P. TEASDEL'S.
Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduced Prices Boys and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
S. P. TEASDEL.
MILLINERY
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. she is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL Prices to suit the times.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS. NOTIONS, GROCERIES
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to 
ONE YEAR.
IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO 
W. HARRISON'S, 
One door South of Constitution Bu[--]dings,
Main Street.
THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR,
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Ra[--].
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.
LADIES
If you want ycur husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR;
BUTTER and EGGS,
F. GOSS, Supt.
EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES;
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
Fine Line of LADIES CORSETS.
H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND 
BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
