
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1875.		NO. 1.﻿


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	NOBODY THINKS of giving the cardinal
less than $500 as a marriage fee.
	A ROMAN Journal "La Voce Della Verita,"
has been suspended for publishing the Pope's
recent address to the German pilgrims.
	FIVE NEW National Banks were author-
ized to commence business on the 17th inst.
in various places in New England, and one
in Alleghany City Pa.
	THE GOVERNOR of Missouri has appointed
Thursday, June 3rd, as a day of humiliation
of fasting and prayer on account of the 
grasshopper pestilence.
	IN ONE part of Norway, the longest day
is three months.  The Omaha Herald says
"what a splendid chance for a lazy man to
start a daily paper."
	ON MONDAY May 10th, a subscription
of $100,000 was raised in Burlington Iowa,
for the construction of the Burlington and
North Western narrow gauge railroad.
	A YOUNG lady of Cuzco the old capital of
the Incas has applied for permission to
study for the degree of Doctor of Laws and
the Peruvian Minister of Justice has replied
favorably.
	COUNCIL BLUFFS Iowa acknowledged by
a public demonstration and a torch light
procession, on the night of May 15, the late
decision of the U. S. Circuit Court declaring
that city to be the Eeastern terminus of the 
U.P.R.R.
	MR. CHARLES Bradlaugh will visit Amer-
ica again in October on another lecturing
tour. His two new lectures are "An Eng-
lishman's view of American Policies," and
"The Labor Question in the Old and New
Worlds."
	A PNEUMATIC tube is to be introduced
into the Palace Hotel at San Francisco to
convey letters and newspapers from the of-
fice to every floor above.  On each floor a 
box will be placed for the reception of let-
ters.  These will be shot down to the office
through the pneumatic tube.
	IN REPLY to an invitation to attend the
Centennial Celebration Gen. Garabaldi has
sent an autograph letter in which he says:
"I will certainly make every possible effort
to have my country participate in the mag-
nificent celebration which is to be held in
Philadelphia. I deeply regret I am not
able to come myself."
	THE BODY of a woman which had been
buried eighteen months in Westfield Mass.
was recently exhumed. On opening the
coffin the corpse was turned over, the hands
were stretched in the hair of the head and
her burial clothing was nearly torn in 
shreds.  There can be little doubt that she
was buried alive and must have suffered
untold agonies.—Boston Transcript.
	MRS. A. J. Dunniway's letter to the
Woman's Journal published May 8th, shows
how the cause of "Woman" is progressing
in Oregon, notwithstanding the opposition.
Thank God for all help towards the social,
mental and religious elevation of woman.
Mrs. Dunniway says she wishes they had
more workers, I would say the same in be-
half of Utah.

[Column 2]
	TERRIBLE DESTRUCTIVE fires have been
raging in the East within the last few days,
the loss in Cincinnati, Ohio and in some parts
of Penn. is enormous.  The town of Osceo-
la in Penn. is said to be entirely destroy-
ed, its inhabitants renderd homeless. The
fire has also seriously damaged the railroad
for some distance.
	THE BOSTON Pilot and some other papers
which are anxious to herald forth their con-
tempt for women have published an extract
from the speech of Mr. Leatham M. P. for
Huddersfield, in which he makes the asser-
tion the Queen has been dragged into the
woman question, and explains she is ruled
by the advice of her Ministers, and he
thanks God they are men not women.
	A CURIOUS record has recently been found
at Pompeii.  It was scratched on the stucco
of a kitchen wall, and has been thus trans-
lated "Lighted the fire, cooked his meals,
and swept his house for him 28,000 times,
and he refuses to take me to the circus."
Beneath this in a different hand is written.
"Women are never satisfied."
	THE SIAMESE gentry will probably have
the privilege taken from them which allow-
ed them to pawn their wife and children
into slavery in payments of debts contracted
by gambling or opium-smoking. Mrs. Dean,
wife of the Rev. Dr. Dean of Siam present-
ed a petition praying for the abrogation of this
law, to the young King which was favora-
bly received.  It was signed by most of the
European ladies at Bangkok.
	MISS ALTA M. Heulett attorny at law in
Chicago, is remarkable for her success in the
profession she is only 20 yrs. of age and has
a practice worth $4,000 a year.  She deliv-
ered the oration last year on the occasion of
the laying of the corner stone of the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin.  She may justly be
proud of her ability and influence.  It is
anticipared she will visit California this
summer and lecture in San Francisco and
other places.


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.
	A YOUNG married man at Rockland, Me.,
became jealous of his wife at an entertain-
ment, and told her on reaching home that
he intended to commit suicide, and was told
to go ahead.  He accordingly procured a
rope, and making due preparation, swung
himself off, calculating, however, that he
would be cut down in season to save his life,
the alarm was given, and the neighbors
hastened to the rescue, but before a knife
could be found to cut him down, the luck-
less wight was black in the face and near-
ly dead.  He is getting over the consequen-
ces, and think's it dosen't pay to run so
much risk for the pleasure of frightening
his better half.
	A FLORIDA man has several "Indian
mounds" upon his land, one of which he
recently opened, and found that it contain-
ed skeletons of men, some of which were
nine feet in length, and from their peculiar
shaped faces he judged that they must have
belonged to a race beyond the memory of
man. He also found arrows of peculiar con-
struction, tipped with some metal resem-

[Column 2]
bling nichel, besides other treasures that he
is not disposed to reveal just yet.  The Pa-
latka Herald says: "There was an old tra-
dition among the Seminoles that Florida
had been inhabited by a civilized or semi-
civilized race, and that they were mostly
artisans, although great in war, and they
had amassed great treasures which were al-
ways buried with them."
	A CORRESPONDENT of the Concord Moni-
tor says that a physcian in that city who
was attending a sick musician during con-
valescence suggested to the latter that it
would be agreeable to hear a little music
during his visits.  The musician fell in with
the suggestion and frequently regaled the
doctor with the concord of sweet sounds.
Time sped rapidly away, and the day ar-
rived for presentation of that little bill for
medical attendance, which amounted to
about $100.  The bill was presented, but the
physician was surprised and disgusted by the
presentation of the following counter charg-
es, which he was ultimately compelled to al-
low: For playing "Oft in the Stilly night,"
six variations, $10; "Sweet Home," three
variations, $5; "German Waltz," one varia-
tion, $2; "Yankee Doodle," six variations,
$10; "Last Rose of Summer," six variations,
$10; solo, "Arkansas Traveler," six varia-
tions, $10; solo, six burlesque variations on
"Pop Goes the Weasel," $10; "Sweet Al-
len," .50; "New Century Hornpipe," .50;
"New Country Hornpipe," .50; "Fisher's
Hornpipe," .50. Total $59.
	IN the business street of an enterprising
village, not many miles from here, an obsti-
nate horse stopped, the other day, contrary
to the driver's wishes and despite sundry
desperate demonstrations on his part. The
society with the long name did not appear,
but a hackney-coachman with a barrel hoop,
a butcher's boy clutching a piece of board,
a stable-keeper with a tremendous whip,
and three burly hostlers armed with smaller
whips, gave the poor animal what Paddy
gave the drum.  But he wouldn't budge an
inch. Then they twisted his tail, fastened
a string around one of his legs, put dirt in
his mouth, stuck a stick in his ear, and a
numerous sidewalk committee, with the
usual officiousness, suggested a hot iron,
sawing his mouth with a rope and various
other ways of diverting the attention of a
balky horse—all without avail. The lean
charger was warranted to stand—and he
did stand a vast amount of pounding, kick-
ing and jerking. At the end of a half hour,
profanity, and cruelty, were below par, and
the matter wore a serious aspect, when a
good-natured Irish woman made her way
through the crowd with a pailfull of swill,
which she held to the mouth of the much
abused creature, with a kindly "Be after
takin' a bite of that, me honey?"  The 
horse sniffed wonderingly at the offal, and 
in the next moment was trotting down town
at a fearful rate. Only another infallible
means of starting a balky horse—that's all.


A LITTLE American lad who had just
commenced reading the papers, asked his
father if the word "Hon." prefixed to the 
name of a member of Congress meant "hon-
est."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
A PRAYER OF THE HEART.

Why am I so weak, and weary
Of life's warfare here on earth?
Why do charms that once allured me,
Fill my heart no more with mirth?
I have proved them to be fleeting,
Oh how vain they seem to me!
When I think of joys eternal
That will never cease to be.

Who has cheered my heart in sorrow?
Who has dried my falling tears?
Gently whispering of to-morrow
When would cease my "guilty fears."
When in days of tribulation,
When my soul was in despair,
Doubting e'en of my salvation,
Who then heard His servants prayer?

Who burst the clouds of darkness round me,
And gave hope beyond the grave,
Peace and comfort to surround me,
If I unto truth would cleave?
It was Jesus my Redeemer;
Who came here on earth to die,
That we might receive salvation
With the pure and good on high.

Father! hear my voice I pray thee
Give me grace to persevere;
That my faith may never fail me
While I am a pilgrim here.
Teach my loved ones that true lesson
Which was taught to me in youth;
To seek first for lasting treasures
Rich with gems of precious truth.

Teach me how to guide my children
In the straight and narrow way,
How to shun the snares of Satan,
Set to lead us all astray.
Spare me till my work is finished;
Grant me wisdom day by day
That my soul may be replenished
With a light of heavenly ray.

Then when through with this probation,
And my soul has been released,
I may meet my angel children
With my parents 'mong the blessed;
And be welcomed to the mansion
Which may be prepared for me
To receive an exaltation
With the glorified and free.
							H. M. W.
March 31st, 1875


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation held at the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms May 15th, 1875, was a par-
ticulary pleasant and interesting one. A
handsome wreath made of hair and nicely
framed, was presented by Miss E. R. Snow
to the President Mrs. M. I. Horne. Each
of the young lady secretaries had contribu-
ted a lock of their hair for the arranging of
the wreath, their names were also inscribed,
and it was addressed to the President as a
tribute of respect. To her it was entirely
unexpected, and it was with some difficulty
she could control her feelings sufficiently, to
return them her thauks and blessing. Coun-
selor E. R. Snow gave an entertaining dis-
cription of the Old Folks Excursion.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney made some suggestive
tive remarks in regard to the yonng ladies
engaging in the studies of medecine and
surgery; and the lectures which were to be
given on their account. The other speak-
ers were Mrs. S. A. Whitney, Mrs. R. R.
Grant and Mrs. Watmough each of them
seemingly inspired with the Spirit of the
Lord, prompting them to dwell upon the
subjects brought before the meeting by the
President and her counselors.
	HYRUM CACHE Co. May 15th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society under the Presidency
of Mrs. Christina Liljenquist held our Sev-
enth Annuel Meeting on the 10th inst. at
ten o’clock a. m.
[Column 2]
	On the stand were the brethren J. Wil-
son, C. C. Shaw and P. Christiansen.
	After singing and prayer, the meeting
was addressed by Counselor Mrs. Johnson,
upon the necessity of union and the respon-
sibilities of mothers. Mrs Stanley and Mrs.
Barnum spoke mostly upon the subject of
using good langauge. President Mrs. Lil-
jenquist thanked the sisters for decorating
the house for the occasion, gave some good
counsel and instruction—exhorted the young
ladies to use their influence to do away with
round dancing, and asked the Lord to bless
them.  The brethren then addressed
the meeting encouragingly; after which
Elder C. C. Shaw read an address to the 
Retrenchment Society by Miss E. R. Snow.
meeting then adjourned.
	At 2 p. m. the Society met at Elder P.
Christiansen's and partook of a sumptuous
dinner, and in the evening all that desired
attended a ball in the hall, and enjoyed
themselves in the dance.
	We are doing all in our power to sustain
home manufacture; we have sent two young
ladies to Brigham City to learn braiding,
millinery &c., and we hope with our own
exertions and the means we have on hand,
to build a house for the society, and to es-
tablish a school for the young ladies to
learn to make hats, bonnets and many of
the articles we are now importing.
	Our report shows we have paid $38, to
missionaries in St. George, $21 to the P. E.
Fund made two quilts the last year, besides
other articles, and ministered to the wants of
the poor. We have now in the Treasury $100.
We meet every two weeks to work and to 
transact all necessary business, also to im-
prove and comfort each other. We appre-
ciate your valuable paper and wish you suc-
cess.
	Your friend and well-wisher,
			NANCY M. NEILSON, Secretary.
		HARRISVILLE May 16th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society at Harrisville held
their Annual Meeting May 6th, 1875. It
was well attended, the speaking encourag-
ing and strengthening to those present.
	We have not accumulated as much means
as some societies, yet we let no one suffer
in our midst. All the society are willing
to give as much as they are able. We have,
at different times appropriated means to-
wards such purposes as are for the benefit
and building up of the kingdom of God.
	The health of our President Mrs. Melissa
Shirtliff has improved since our last report.
We have a good presidency ahd are progress-
ing gradually. Those who take the EXPO-
NENT appreciate its value.
	Yours Truly,
		MARY E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
	Minutes of The Organization Meeting of
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Associa-
tion of Cedar Fort held in the Meeting
house April 21st, 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing "Oh God, the
God that rules on high"—Prayer by Brother
Samuel Wilcox—Singing "Sweetly may
the blessed spirit—
	Miss E. R. Snow by request of Mrs. So-
phronia Cook, who presided, addressed the 
large audience, saying she was pleased to
see so many of the brethren manifest an
interest by being present on this occasion—
That in the Church and Kingdom of God
the interests of men and women are the
same; man has no interests separate from
that of women, however it may be in the
outside world, our interests are all united.
She was happy to see so many of the young
men—as a mother in Israel she felt that she
had a right to talk to them a little. She
spoke of the first organization of the young
[Column 3]
ladies—said it was introduced by revelation
from God &c. Gave some account of the
manner in which it was opposed; and even
by parents, who could see no necessity, for
young people to educate themselves in the
religion of Jesus. That parents only need-
ed this spiritual exercise. Said she was
truly thankful to see that some of the young
ladies of this place were brave enough to
manifest a wish to enter into an organiza-
tion.  She mentioned people calling on her
from the settlements, and saying that no
retrenchment was needed with them, they
were not extravagant in dress &c.—Then
she asked them if they had no ignorance to
retrench from, no uncouth manners, no evil
practices, notning at variance with the
spirit of the Gospel &c. which called forth 
responses, in favor of retrenchment organi-
zations, from their opponents. She referred
to the spiritual education of children early
in the church; saying that we had grown in-
to Sectarianism, so far as some of the gifts of
the gospel were concerned—young people
knew nothing of them, only by report.
Said she was in favor of book-learning but
that all the book-learning in the world,
would not qualify them to become Queens
and Priestesses in the courts above. It re-
quired a spiritual culture and education.
She suggested to the young gentlemen that
they move forward; lay hold of spiritual and
mental inprovement, and take the lead of
the young ladies. She urged them to re-
spect themselves too highly to submit to the
adulterating habits of the world, in the use
of tobacco and liquors. That they should
not defile their bodies, (which should be fit
temples for the Holy Ghost) with those
forbidden things. She expressed her be-
lief that the filthy ue of tobacco, so adul-
terated the stomach, and so destroyed the
natural powers of the digestive organs, as
to create an unnatural hankering for strong
drink, and lead to drunkenness. With
many other instructive remarks; after which
by request of the Prest. of the meeting she
proceeded to organize the society. Twenty-
six young ladies were admitted as members
by unanimous vote.
	Elder Samuel Wilcox, having been invi-
ted by President Mrs. Cook expressed his
sanction of what had been said, was thank-
ful for the move being made, and for every
movement for the good of Zion—said that
the cultivation of the young, on whom great
responsibility would soon devolve; was one
of the most important things, with other
words of instruction and encouragment.
	An Anthem was aung by the choir
Benediction by Brother Robert Parker.
		MELINDA COOK, Secretary.
			LEHI, May 20th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:
	On April the 23rd, we had a pleasant vis-
it from Miss Eliza R. Snow, and Mrs. M. S.
Snow. Held a meeting in the Tabernacle
at 2 o’clock p. m. Sister E. R. Snow gave
some good instructions to the sisters, speak-
ing plainly of their duties as members of
the Relief Society, and showing the differ-
ence there would be in the future in the
positions of those who had attended to their
duties and magnified their calling, to those
who had neglected to do so; urged upon the
sisters the necessity of stepping forward
and helping to establish HOME INDUSTRIES;
said that President Young had made a spe-
cial call to the Relief Societies to assist in
this matter.
	A meeting was appointed for the evening


inviting all to attend, and with the permis-
sion of Bishop Evans. Miss E. R. Snow
would organize the young ladies.
	In the evening according to appointment
meeting opened in the usual way; after
which Mrs. Rebecca Standring was appoint-
ed secretary pro tem.
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke of the object of
these organizations, and referred to the
time when President Young requested her
to organize the young ladies in Salt Lake
City. Spoke with pleasure of the steady ad-
vancement of those who had stood firm to
their integrity from the first. Said it was
the privilege of the young to have a know-
ledge of the Gospel and enjoy its blessings
as well as their parents, and by uniting in
an association they would gain wisdom and
knowledge, and lay the foundation for fu-
ture usefulness in the kingdom of God.
Encouraged them to lay aside and retrench
from everything displeasing in the sight of
God and His servants and be determined to
live to the Lord; improving themselves in
all things, that they might become refined
and cultivated daughters of Zion, settng
an example before the young men worthy
of imitation.
	Said to the young brethren, it was their
place to lead, but inasmuch as they had not
done so in this matter, she hoped they
would follow, and improve the the good op-
portunity they now had to store their minds
with useful knowledge, and get a testimony
of the truth of this work for themselves
and not wait until they were sent on missions
to preach, for if they did they would not
only experience mortification themselves,
but disappoint others who were looking to
them as Elders of Israel from Zion, for in-
telligence they could not impart.
	The organization by unanimous vote
were:
	Miss Orinda Davis, President,
		"Barbara Evans,
		"Sarah Teryusson,
		"Sarah Wardles,
	Mrs. Lizzie Barns,			Counselors.
	Miss Sarah E. Wardles,
		"Lizzie Smith,
		"Sarah Taylor, Secretary,
		"Christie Gadly, Assistant Secretary.
	Seventy-nine young ladies were admit-
ted as members by unanimous vote.
	Miss E. R. Snow then spoke with great
power and earnestnes,s blessed the young la-
dies and asked God to bless them and in-
spire them to do right. She was followed
by Bishop Evans, who expressed his pleas-
ure in the movement, and his willingness
to organize the young gentlemen simi-
larly Mrs. Mary S. Snow made some re-
marks exhorting the young sisters to im-
prove their privileges.
	Meeting adjourned. Benediction by El-
der Isreal Evans.
		REBECCA STANDRING, Secy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BONDITCH on taxation published in pam-
phlet form is a book which should be care-
fully read and pondered upon by men and
women. He cites official report made by
the Mass. Legation in 1871. Showing that
women paid one-eleventh part of the entire
property tax in that year. He has written
boldly and and ably in defense of women;
and he deserves the highest praise for the
firm stand he has taken. He takes for the
basis of his arguments the Declaration of
Rights adopted by Mass. in 1770 and
proves conclusively that women were not
only included in the word "People" but in
the word "Men."


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN THE PRINTING OFFICE.

	Reference has been made to the Declara-
tion of Independence; printers may not
know the fact, but even that important doc-
ument was originally printed by a lady,
Mary Catharine Goddard. There were wo-
men in those days. To print that immortal
State paper in the  year 1777 was to run the
risk of losing one's head.
	Miss Goddard was a sister of William
Goddard, the first printer in Providence, R.
I. He also published the Maryland Journal
in Baltimore in the early part of the Revo-
lution. When Benjamin Franklin became
Postmaster-General after Congress had su-
perseded the British government, he ap-
pointed Goddard Comptroller and Surveyor
of Post Roads. While he was thus engaged
in public matters, his sister conducted the
affairs of the printing house with marked
ability, being able to personally perform the
duties of a thorough printer, while remain-
ing clear-sighted, orderly and energetic in
her management of the business.
	Anne Franklin entered the printing office
in 1632. Her husband, James Franklin,
(brother of Benjamin) established himself in
Newport, R. I., in that year, but he died
soon after, and his widow carried on the
business successfully for many years. She
became "Printer to the Colony," and pub-
lished pamphlets, supplied the public offices
with blanks of all kinds, and also carried
on a general publishing business. The New-
port Mercury, now regularly issued, grew
out of this printing office in 1756, and is,
with one exception, the oldest newspaper
in the country. In 1755 Mrs. Franklin
printed for the government an edition of
the "Laws," containing 340 pages, consider-
able of an undertaking for a woman in those
days.
	Mrs. Cornelia Bradford, wife of Andrew
Bradford, was among the first of our wo-
men printers. She carried on the business
with great energy for many years after the
death of her husband, which took place in
1742. The Bradfords, both husband and
wife, stood among the best of the early
printers of Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Hassebotch wife of Nicholas Hasse-
botch, the first printer of Baltimore. She
succeeded to his business at once, and prose-
cuted it with talent and energy. The fol-
lowing anecdote is related in connection
with one of her most important publica-
tions: "In 1773, a missionary had a Bible
in his hand, explaining to a party of Indi-
ans. He pronounced it to be 'the Gospel,
the Truth, the Word of God' 'What!' said
one of them; 'did the Great All-powerful
make this work?' 'Yes,' replied the mis-
sionary, 'it's his work.' The Indian, tak-
ing the literal import of the words, an-
swered indignantly, 'I believe it to be a
great lie. I go to Baltimore last month
when I see Dutch woman make him; the
Great Spirit want no Dutchman help him.'"
	Mrs. H. Boyle published a paper at Wil-
liamsburg, Virginia, in 1774. It favored
the Crown, and lived but a short time. Mrs.
Boyle was a good printer, however, and fully
understood her business.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Timothee, after the death
of her husband in 1773, continued publish-
ing the Gazette in Charleston, S. C. She
conducted it for two years, when, her son be-
coming of age, she passed it over to him.
	From all accounts, the early women prin-
ters in the United States were as remarka-
ble as journalists, as in the more mechani-
cal work of publishing. In all the records
of those days, it is in no instance hinted
that the newspapers were not fully as well

[Column 2]
edited and as energetically published by
women as by men.
	Mrs. Mary Holt, widow of John Holt, was
publisher of the New York Journal in 1793
a paper which had already been conducted
by a woman printer and journalist, Mrs. Zen-
ger, forty-five years before. This publica-
tion performed marked services for the rev-
olutionary cause, and as a reward, the pub-
lisher, Mrs. Holt, was appointed printer to
the State of New York, the only woman re-
corded as ever having filled this office.
	Last mentioned, but not least in merit and
reputation, is Mrs. Jane Atkin. This lady,
at the death of her father in Boston in 1802,
continued his business with a talent and in-
dustry remarkable even among women of
the revolutionary period. Her fame was
high from the excellent character and abil-
ity of the productions issued from her press.
She was also noted as a thorough printer and
a severe and accurate proof reader.
	Mention should perhaps be made of Mar-
garet Draper, of Boston, as she conducted
unaided, the Boston News Letter, the first
regular newspaper published in America.
She was not one of the Republican women,
however, and when the British evacuated
Boston she went to England, where she re-
ceived a pension from the government.
	In the light of these facts, now matters of
history, let us not claim for this decade the
honor of having introduced women into the
printing office. Women opened for them-
selves this extensive and worthy field of
labor, and the success which has always at-
tended their efforts is the best proof of their
capacity as printers, publishers, and journ-
alists.—Rowell's Newspaper Reporter.


PART OF A LETTER.

	A letter written by Mrs. H. C. Young who
has been visiting in the Eastern States, and
addressed to Miss E. R. Snow of this city
contains some interesting paragraphs and
gives one some idea of our relative position
to the world at the present time. After ex-
pressing her pleasure in hearing of the pros-
perity of the home societies, she goes on to
explain some things as they exist there:
said it was becoming a serious question,
what to do with the surplus of women; they
are not usually educated to any employ-
ment that will command a living.
	She alludes to the rapid spread of Catho-
licism and infidelity and says many who
believe in religion are ashamed to own it.
	Many inquire of her concerning our faith,
and some believe it, but are trammeled in
some way and cannot free themselves.
	In regard to dress she says her male rela-
tives say, it is refreshing to see a plainly
dressed woman again, and think there is
hope their wives and daughters may return
to their senses. Her neices wished to make
her some new dresses, but when she spoke
of having them almost entirely plain, they
were not so anxious. She realized in ming-
ling with the world, the true value of our
most holy religion, and the freedom it gives
to our sex. She met several people who
were well acquainted with Joseph Smith,
H. C. Kimball, and others, and many who
have friends in Utah.
	She made many inquiries concerning
silk-worms &c. Cleanliness seems one es-
sential requisite in regard to them; even 
one's hands must be very clean, they are
dainty little creatures; onions are poisonous
to them either to handle or to eat them
so they can smell your breath, and they re-
quire keeping in a light place.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time. $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. JUNE 1, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			PERSONAL.
	Jeaquin Miller is in England busy on a
novel of California life......Victor Hugo has
left Paris for Guernsey to complete a new
volume of poems, title “Les France et Les
Germains......Gen. Redington died at the
Grand Hotel, San Francisco, May 22nd......
Mark Twain is said to make $700 a week on
his play of the "Gilded Age"......Clarence
Bowen, son of Henry C. Bowen, is writing
his impressions of the Pacific coast to the
Independent......Herr De Suert, a violincel-
list of great skill, has just made a success-
ful debut in London......Mr. Boucicault is
said to have made $20,000 during one
month's performance in Boston.........Mrs.
Senator Sumner is about to be married......
Dudley Baxter died in London May 21st.....
Ex U. S. Senator Jesse D. Bright is dead.....
Judge James Paul of the Supreme Court of
the state of West Virginia died May 11th
......Cadet C. S. Hall was thrown from his
horse, at West Point, and fatally injured.....
John Sheridan, father of Gen. Sheridan,
died  recently at his residence at Somerset,
Ohio......Ex-Governor Hoffman will spend
the summer at the United States Hotel,
Saratoga......Mr. Godlove S. Orth, the new
American Minister has reached Vienna......
Mr. John M. Francis, editor of the Troy
Times and ex-Minister to Greece, sailed for
Europe on the 27th of May with his wife
......Mrs. Conway, the popular lessee of the
Brooklyn Theatre, is dead.........Vice-Presi-
dent Wilson was in Denver May 22nd......
Co. T. W. Sims, business manager of the
Savannah Advertiser, Ga., committed sui-
cide in San Francisco May 25th; he had ar-
rived there recently from N. Y. City.
			FOREIGN.
	Froude, the historian, sailed from London
for South Africa on the 23rd of May in his
official capacity......The Tribunal have dis-
missed the charges against Duchesne for
the alleged plot and assassination against
Prince Bismarck......There are rumors in
London of the early resignation of Disraeli
The Italian government has ordered the re-
moval of all Bishops who have not received
royal endorsement.........Ex-Queen Amelia,
widow of the late King Otho of Greece,
died at Munich, May 20th......A Genoese
Marchioness has recently made a donation
to the Pope of $20,000 a year......The Bank
of England's rate of discount is 3 3/8 per cent
......The Italian Senate has voted a national
gift to Garibaldi......Many more bodies of
the victims of the Schiller disaster have
been recovered; also twenty-four mail bags
have been brought ashore......Count Corti,
Italian Minister at Washington, has been
transferred to Constantinople......The Pope
is reported to be seriously ill.........A large
portion of the city of Peshauer, Afghanis-
tan, has recently been destroyed by fire......
The trial of Count Von Arnim has been fixed
for July 1st......The Japanese portion of the
island of Saghalien has been ceded to Rus-
sia......A meeting of the three Emperors of
Russia, Germany and Austria will shortly
take place at Ems......The House of Com-
mons adjourned over Wednesday, May 26th,
for the Derby races.....Attempts to frighten
Bismarck still continue.......The Spanish
government has suspended a Madrid news-
paper, the Imparciale......On Sunday follow-
ing holy week a bull fight took place at Ma-
drid, Spain; there were 16,000 persons
crowded into the amphitheatre; King Al-
phonso XII was present.
			GENERAL.
	The Iowa Republicans will hold their state
convention at Des Moines on June 30th.......

[Column 2]
Boston votes $30,000 to the Bunker Hill
centennial......The opening of Lake Cham-
plain this season was the latest for sixty
tears......Harper and brothers are about to
issue another chronicle of the religious re-
vival abroad, entitled "The Work of God in
Great Britaint......May 22nd, Albany, N.
Y., both houses of the Legislature ad-
journed sine die......The officers for the Cen-
tennial Exposition have been elected.........
Gen. Custar's expedition to the Black Hills
will leave Fort Lincoln June 1st.....A move-
ment for revenue reform has been com-
menced by the prominent importers of New
York......Santa Rosa is to have a separate
school for colored children......A young lady
presented Cardinal McClosky a diamond
cross worth $20,000.....Prof. Wm. Crookes
has made one of the greatest discoveries in
regard to light since spectram analysis......
Lieut. Col Emery Upton has been relieved
from duty as commander at West Point and
Lieut. Col. Thomas H. Neill succeeds him
—Daniel Webster's library is soon to be
sold at auction in Boston......Red Cloud,
Spotted Tail and several other Sioux Indian
Chiefs are in Washington, negotiating in
regard to the Black Hills......Col. J. H.
Britton (Dem.) has been elected Mayor of
St. Louis, vice Arthur B. Barrett, deceased,
by 615 majority......Ex-Senator Cassely and
family are stopping at San Rafael this sum-
mer......The shipment of wool from Califor-
nia to the East is immense......Mrs. Oates
commences a season at Pipe's Opera House,
Nevada, May 31st.......Joseph Jefferson is
playing a farewell engagement at the Boston
Theatre, previous to going to Europe......
Detective Wood, from Boston, arrested Jack-
son, the Boston defaulter, at Heesville, N.
Y., May 26th......In Hartford, Conn., May
26th, the cotton mills of D. B. Smith were
burned, 200 hands thrown out of employ-
ment; loss  $100,000; insurance $40,000......
A terrific explosion of Dow's drug store,
Washington St., Boston, took place May 26th;
several persons killed, others injured, and
great destruction to property; cause un-
known.


THREE YEAR'S OLD.

	To-day the EXPONENT enters its fourth year.
Upon the supposition that its friends will be
glad to learn concerning its welfare, we cheer-
fully submit the following.
	If at present our journal is not strengthened
by as large an amount of money in the treas-
ury as those immediately connected with its
interests could desire, it is perhaps, as well off
in this respect as many of its flourishing neigh-
bors. And it has more certain capital than
even ready money, indispensable as that arti-
cle is to progression.
	It has for its credentials the good wishes and
faith of wise men and women who favor and
seek the promotion of all useful enterprises.


For its upholders it has willing and earnest
workers whose hopes for its future, supported
as they are by evidences of the past, are bright,
and who consider its prospects full of promise.
	If our kind patrons are satisfied with our ef-
forts, let each consider, as one sister has writ-
ten, that the best way of expressing apprecia-
tion for WOMAN'S EXPONENT is by now sub-
scribing for volume four.


WHITHER ARE WE DRIFTING

We live in deeds, not years—in thoughts not breaths—
In feelings, not in figures on a dial;
We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives,
Who thinks most—feels the noblest—acts the best.
	Whither is our course bent on the great
ocean of time, have we some goal in view
which we are concentrating all our forces and
energies to reach, and are we carefully and dili-
gently husbanding all our resources to attain
without danger or detriment to ourselves, this
desirable object? Have we entered upon this
course understandingly, and chosen for our pi-
lot, one who will warn us of any obstruction in
our way; who is aware of all the reefs and
quicksands which might wreck us at any mo-
ment when we were sailing smoothly along on
a calm sea, for the clear placid smiling surface
sometimes covers the most dangerous depths,
and is so inviting to the mariner that all un-
conscious of the hidden rocks or shoals, in a
moment of seeming security the bark goes
down or is dashed to pieces, and often a surge
forms from some scarcely preceptible cause and
foaming and rushing headlong in its course
bears down the frail bark, or even the more
solid structures, and in a moment of time they
are swallowed up in the unfathomable deep.
	Is it not expedient then to be on our guard,
and to thoroughly understand ourselves and
train every faculty we possess in such careful-
ness and exactitude as to be able to compete
with every obstacle in our pathway, and to be
continually guided by the Holy Spirit the Com-
forter which cannot err?
	It is the only safe pilot, the whispering in
our hearts, the true instinct of immortality,
which will guide us safely whatever our cir-
cumstances may be; it is a solace for every
sorrow; a hope in every hour of darkness to
light our souls, a stay and an anchor which
will hold us firmly through the stormiest pas-
sage upon life's sea; if we will listen to the gen-
tle whisperings which it is ever ready to impart
to those who yield themselves wholy to its
heavenly influence. It is only by living
pure and true lives that we can be thus shield-
ed; we must first submit ourselves to the dic-
tates of the Gospel of Jesus, and obey the
principles of the kingdom of God, become like
little children, in humility and meekness, ere
we can partake of the rich blessings which
flow from the fountain of life and intelligence
to all who are prepared to receive them.
	It will not do to drift about carelessly, merely
seeking the gratification of idle wishes, at the
caprice of every momentary whim, floating
down the great stream of time, and regardless
of the dangers which beset us, expect to land
in a safe harbor; without thought, without cal-
culation, without any settled purpose, not hav-
ing qualified ourselves with the requisite cred-
entials. Would any rational being possessed
of sound sense and judgment, expect to go
to a foreign country, among people totally un-
known, without making the most careful ar-
rangements, and being positive they had a
passport which would be undeniable in its ac-
curacy, and would identify them among the
people with whom they expected to associate?
And yet we, many of us endowed with intel-


ligence and possessing almost unlimited advan-
tages for qualifying ourselves for a higher ex-
istence and calling, move on from day to day
scarcely casting a thought beyond the position
we occupy here, satisfied if we obtain some
trifling pleasure, sometimes forgetting our
Heavenly Father, whose hand supplies all our
needs, and without whose aid and assistance
we could not exist for one brief moment.
	Has the great Creator given us such gifts of
mind, such perfect bodies, so capable of action,
so wonderfully formed, to be the sport of acci-
dent, controlled only by circumstances? Are
we not the arbiters of our own fate? Assur-
edly we are individual agents, to do, to be, and
to become, whatever it is possible for us to ac-
complish; if we aim high, and our courage
equals our resolves, we may attain unlimited
excellence. Our Savior whose life is given for
our example; went about doing good; He lived
not to aggrandize himself, not for the happi-
ness of one, but for all the world of mankind;
His actions and words were replete with innate
purity, with the most unlimited charity for the
faults and weaknesses of humanity. He ex-
tended to the poor and the erring the most gen-
uine sympathy; yet he exacted strict obedience
to the laws of heaven. If we would be truly
followers of Jesus let us be watchful of our own
hearts, and seek diligently to become wholly
submissive to the guidance of the Holy Spirit
which He has promised us, and which will
teach us our duty to ourselves, to our children,
to our co-workers: in the great plan of salva-
tion, and above all our duty to Him to whom
we owe all. 						B. B


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN.

	Although a fortnight has elapsed since the
excursion so skillfully planned for the "old
folks" of this city, was happily consummated,
the subject is still not devoid of interest; for the
event was one long to be remembered.
	It was a beautiful thought suggested to Bro.
C. R. Savage, and first communicated to
brother John W. Young—President of the
Utah Northern and Utah Western Rail Roads.
The latter gentleman immediately acceded to
the proposition of the former, to "give some of
the aged Saints, 'the Lords aristocracy' a ride
on the cars." Accordingly, the famous excur-
sion to Lake Point was arranged, with Bishop
Edward Hunter, George Goddard and Charles
R. Savage as committee.
	One hundred and eighty men and women,
each over sixty, whose average age was seven-
ty-two, were brought together at the depot on
the morning appointed, May fourteenth. And
with these, all comfortably seated in cars for a
ride on the Utah Western Railway, was a suffi-
cient number of blind, lame and halt, together
with nurses and help for some of the infirm
and the very aged, to make up a company of
sixty-four under sixty years of age; in all; two
hundred and forty-four persons;
	Sunday school excursions, school picnics and
young peoples' festivals of various kinds, are
of such frequent occurrence as to excite but or-
dinary interest on general occasions. But a
day devoted to the aged, for their especial
amusement and enjoyment, has something of
originality in it.
	Charles Dicken's said:
		"There is nothing on earth half so holy
		As the heart of an innocent child?"
	But we say, if there is anything on earth 
that can compare with pure and lovely child-
hood, certainly it is ripe, beautiful old age.
The sweetness and freshness of the first guile-
less childhood is only equaled by the sublimity
of the second.


Therefore, to one passing from youth to mid-
dle age, a day thus spent in the society of the
"old folks," is not dissimilar to a day spent with
the children; save that in the former case, the
words spoken, the care bestowed, the assistance
rendered and the sympathies indulged, all
arise from feelings of holy reverence instead of
a reciprocity in innocent delight and merri-
ment.
	The ride on the cars both going and return-
ing, the sail on the lake, the grateful rests and
soul-reviving interviews beneath the roof of
Dr. Clinton's commodious house, were all char-
acterized by a full flow of the serene and holy
influence ever peculiar to old age after well-
spent, useful days of youth, and middle age.
It was indeed a joyous day, a day of feasting,
a day never to be forgotton. Surely the com-
mittee must realize much satisfaction in con-
templating the perfect success with which their
efforts were crowned.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	SPECIAL MEETING of two days will be held
in Mill Creek Ward, Saturday and Sunday,
June 5th and 6th, and at West Jordan June
12th and 13th.
	MONDAY EVENING May 31st, the pupils of
St. Marks school gave an entertainment in the
Theatre which was highly creditable and en-
joyable.
	A FEW persons interested in the silk culture,
are about organizing a society in this Territory
the object being to diffuse information on the
subject, to encourage the raising of cocoons
and the manufacture of ribbons &c.
	MR. FABIAN'S lecture on Dickens at Inde-
pendence Hall May 27th, was well attended
by an appreciative audience. Mr. Fabian was
a friend and school-fellow of Dickens and well
acquainted with his literary career.
	THE NEW Tabernacle was opened for the
first time since conference, Sunday May 16th,
Elder John Taylor addressed the congregation.
May 23rd, Elder Orson Pratt occupied the
stand. Many strangers were present upon each
occasion and gave particular attention.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young and George A.
Smith, Apostles Taylor and Carrington and
some other elders visited Provo and held a
meeting there May 23rd, which was numer-
ously attended, and an excellent spirit prevail-
ed. A special train brought them home the
same evening.
	MISS DELLIE Clawson received her first ben-
efit Saturday evening with an attractive pro-
gramme, a number of the popular and profess-
ional artists and some young Misses volunteer-
ed their services on the occasion. She is a great
favorite with the public and her popularity has
been justly earned.
	AT AMERICAN Fork, June 1st, there will be
a grand Jubilee in honor of the birthbay of
President Brigham Young, the children from
all parts of Utah county are to participate in
the entertainment. Special arrangements have
been made to convey a limited number of
children from this city.
	ON SUNDAY, the 23rd ult., while a number of
children were crossing City Creek, a little above
President Young's saw-mill, a little girl seven
years old, named Emma Hammer, fell in and
was carried down by the swift current. A
gentleman being near and hearing the child
scream succeeded in rescuing her; when taken
out she was insensible but was subsequently
resuscitated.

[Column 2]
	DECORATION DAY was observed at Camp
Douglas with military display. Officers of the
Territory and citizens of Salt Lake City were
cordially invited to participate. The proces-
sion formed at the Court House and proceeded
in line to Camp Douglas where they were
greeted with a national salute after which
there were exercises at the cemetry all of which
had been previously arranged by a committee
—they were then dismissed on the ground.
The day following was observed as a general
holiday.
	THERE WILL be a grand musical entertain-
ment at the Theatre Jane 3rd, under the lead-
ership of Mr. George Careless. The Oratorio
of the Messsiah will be rendered by a large
number of ladies and gentlemen who have
been engaged in practising with a view to this
entertainment for some months past. Lovers
of music and all interested in musical talents
will enjoy this the most carefully trained and
highly finished choir of voices which Salt Lake
has ever produced.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN Havanna for $475 you can purchase a
thousand oranges.
	PARIS has 1,500,000 French men and 420,
000 foreigners.
	ENGLAND imports 550 tons of ivory an-
nually, of which she retains for home con-
sumption 270 tons.
	THE amount voted by Parliament for de-
fraying the expenses of the British Arctic
expedition this year is £98,620.
	THE INCREASE of specie in the Bank of
France has been very considerable; re-
cently in one week the increase amounted
to sixteen million frances.
	DURING April the aggregate losses by
fires throughout the United States and
Canada amounted to $10,178,400, aggregate
losses to insurance companies $5,476,400.
	For male teachers in Rhode Island the
average salary is $83 per month, female
teachers $43 the ratio of male to female
teachers is one to four.
	THERE are in Boston 7,214 women tax-
payers whose aggregate taxes alone, annu-
ally amount to $1,296,693 and these very
women are not allowed the privilege of
suffrage.
	IT is asserted by President Abbot of the
Michigan Agricultural College, that forty-
two per cent of the living graduates of that
institution, are engaged in farming or gar-
dening pursuits.
	THE issue of postage stamps of all kinds
by the post-office department during April
amounts to a little over $2,000,000 an in-
crease of about 20 per cent on the corres-
ponding month of last year.
	AN Illinois jury has given a verdict of
25,000 against W. J. Story editor of the 
"Chicago Times" for the publication of an
article assailing the character of Alice A.
Early of Rockford.
	IN Illinois the highest salary paid to male
teachers is $300 per month; to female teach-
ers $220 per month; the ratio of male to fe-
male teachers is 3 to 7.  In Mass. the aver-
age salary per month for men is $94.34, to
women $34.34, the ratio of male to female
teachers is 1 to 8.


Without a rich heart wealth is an ugly
beggar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿TO MY MOTHER.

As water to the parched ground,
As gurgling brook in desert found,
As beacon light to sailor's eyes,
As grasps the hand a long-sought prize,
As meet dear friends who've parted long,
As moves the heart a gentle song:
This is a mother's love to me—
A rich, a heaven-sent legacy.

The acme of impartial love,
The portraiture of that above:
The affection drawn from nature's well,
The love that doth all love excel--
Spontaneous warms a mother's breast,
And ever shines, what'er the test;
Evincing watchful, tender care,
To shield its hope from every snare,

This, kind mother, sweet and mild,
A tribute from thy youngest child.

								SELEC. ED.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomatoes.—After stewing them a few minutes
and just before dishing them, add a little flour and
sweet cream, pepper salt and butter as in other
dishes.  Another good way to prepare tomatoes is
to slice them rather thickly, salt pepper and roll in
flour, then fry brown in butter, kept a boiling heat
all the time.
	American Yorkshire Pudding.—When scraps of
bread and meat have accumulated, instead of mak-
ing "hash," chop the meat finely, soften the bread
with boiling water, mix the two ingredients to-
gether add an egg or two some salt pepper and
sage. Bake in an ordinary pan; thus you save all,
and have a dish superior to "hash."
	Lettuce.—Gather some nice heads of lettuce ten-
der and crisp; wash and cut in quarters or shreds;
to a proportionate quantity of cream add a small
bit of butter and pepper and salt, heat this to a boil-
ing point and pour over the lettuce covering it for a
few moments.  This dish is said to be a good sub-
stitute for green peas before they are in season.
	Preparing Coffee.—Put the gronnd coffee to
soak over night in enough cold water to wet it all,
in the morning add more water; put it over the fire
and let it boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then fill
in what boiling water is necessary, and put the cof-
fee-pot on the stove-hearth to settle for fifteen min-
utes.  Coffee thus prepared will be clear and am-
ber-colored, and if left over will heat again better
than if settled with eggs.
	Cucumber Pickles.—Pick and wash the cucum-
bers of not more than three days growth, pack in a
keg or jar in close layers, over each layer, place a
layer of salt in which alum has been well mixed,
say a tablespoonful to each pint of salt; do not add
any water.  When wanted for use freshen them.
Scald in strong vinegar spiced to the taste. Drain
the pickles dry and cover with fresh vinegar add-
ing to each pint of the vinegar a tablespoonful of
sugar. The vinegar which is first poured over
them will inbibe too much of the salt to be agreea-
ble to the taste, and will lose much of its strength
while the fresh vinegar poured over them al-
ready sour, with the addition of the sugar, will
preserve them in full strength.


[First column]
		﻿HYGIENIC NOTES.
	SICK HEAD ACHE Is sickness at stom-
ach, a tendency to vomit, combined with 
pain in some part of the head, generally the
left side. It is caused by there being too
much bile in the system, from the fact that
this bile is manufactured too rapidly, or is
not worked out of the system fast enough
by steady, active exercise. Hence sedentary
persons, those who do not walk about a great
deal, but are seated in the house nearly all
the time, are almost exclusively the victims
of this distressing malady. It usually be-
[Column 2]
gins soon after waking up in the morning,
and lasts a day or two or more. There are
many causes; the most frequent is, derange-
ment of the stomach by late and hearty sup-
pers; by eating too soon after a regular
meal, (five hours should, at least, intervene;)
eating without an appetite; forcing food;
eating after one is conscious of having had
enough; eating too much of any favorite
dish; eating something which the stomach
can not digest, or sour stomach. Any of 
these things may induce sick head-ache;
all of them can be avoided. Over-fatigue or;
great mental emotion of any kind, or se-
vere mental application, have brought on
sick head-ache, of the most distressing char-
acter, in an hour; it is caused by indulgence
in spirituous liquors. When a person has
sick head-ache, there is no appetite; the
very sight of food is hateful; the tongue is
furred; the feet and hands are cold, and
there is a feeling of universal discomfort,
with an utter indisposition to do anything
whatever. A glass of warm water, into
which has been rapidly stirred a heaping
tea-spoon each of salt and kitchen mustard,
by causing instantaneous vomiting, empties
the stomach of the bile or undigested sour
food, and a grateful relief is often experi-
enced on the spot; and rest, with a few hours
of sound, refreshing sleep, completes the 
cure, especially if the principal part of the
next day or two is spent in mental diversion
and out-door activities, not eating an atom
of food (but drinking freely of cold water
or hot teas) until you feel as if a piece of
plain, cold bread and butter would "taste
really good." Nine cases in ten the cause of
sick head-ache is in the fact, that the stom-
ach was not able to digest the food last in-
troduced into it, either from it being un-
suitable, or excessive in quantity. When
the stomach is weak, a spoonful of the mild-
est blandest food would cause an attack of
sick head-ache, when ten times the amount
might have been taken in health, not only
with impunity but with positive advantage.
	Those who are "subject to sick head ache"
cat too much and exercise too little, and
have cold feet and constipation. A diet of
cold bread and butter, and ripe fruits or 
berries, with moderate continuous exercise
in the open air, sufficient to keep up a very
gentle perspiration, would, of themselves,
cure almost every case within thirty-six
hours. Two teaspoonfuls of pulverized
charcoal, stirred in half a glass of water, and
drank, generally gives instant relief.
	RHEUMATISM Affects the joints, the
hinges of the body, in such a way, that the
slightest motion of the ailing part gives
pain. A creaking hinge is dry, and turns
hard. A single drop of oil to moisten it
makes a wonderful change, and it instantly
moves on itself with the utmost facility.
Rheumatism is an inflammation of the sur-
face of the joints. Inflammation is heat; this
heat dries these surfaces; hence, the very
slightest effort at motion gives piercing
pain. In a healthy condition of the parts,
nature is constantly throwing out a lubrica-
ting oil, which keeps the joints in a per-
fectly smooth and easy-working condition.
Rhematism is almost always caused—in-
deed, it may be nearer the truth to say,
that it is always the result of a cold damp-
ness. A dry cold, or a warm dampness, does
not induce rheumatism. A garment, wet-
ted by perspiration or rain, or water in an-
other form, about a joint, and allowed to dry
while the person is in a state of rest, is the
most common way of causing rheumatism.
A partial wetting of a garment is more apt
to induce an attack than if the entire cloth-
ing were wetted; because, in the latter case,
[Column 3]
it would be certainly and speedily ex-
changed for dry garments. The very mo-
ment a garment is wetted in whole or in
part, change it, or keep in motion suffi-
cient to maintain a very slight perspiration;
until the clothing is perfectly dried.
	The failure to wear woolen flannel next
the skin, is the most frequent cause of rheu-
matism; for a common muslin or linen or
silk shirt on a person in a perspiration, be
comes damp and cold the instant a puff of
air strikes it, even in mid-summer. This is
not the case when woolen flannel is worn
next the skin.
	This troublesome affection is cured by
keeping the joint affected wound around
with several folds of woolen flannel; second,
live entirely on the lightest kinds of food,
such as coarse breads, ripe fruits, berries,
boiled turnips, stewed apples, and the like.
If such things were eaten to the extent of
keeping the system freely open, and exer-
cise were taken, so that a slight moisture
should be on the surface of the skin all the
time; or if, in bed, the same thing were ac-
complished by hot teas and plentiful bed-
clothing, a grateful relief and an ultimate
cure will very certainly result in a reasona-
bly short time. Without these, the disease
will continue to torture for weeks and
months and years.
	Inflammatory rheumatism may, for all prac-
tical purposes, be regarded as an aggravated
form of the common kind, extended to all
the joints of the body instead of implicat-
ing only one or two. For all kinds, time,
flannel, warmth, with a light cooling diet,
are the great remedies.
	AIR, SUNSHINE AND HEALTH.—A New
York merchant noticed, in the progress of
years, that each successive book-keeper lost
his health, and finally died of consumption,
however vigorous and robust he was on en-
tering his service. At length it occurred to
him that the little rear-room where
the books were kept opened in a back-
yard, so surrounded by high walls,
that no sunshine came into it from one year's
end to another. An upper room, well light-
ed, was immediately prepared, and his
clerks had uniform good health ever after.
	A French lady became ill. The most em-
inent physicians of her time were called in,
but failed to restore her. At length Dupey-
tren, the Napoleon of physic, was consulted.
He noticed that she lived in a dim room, in-
to which the sun never shone; the house be-
ing situated in one of the narrow streets, or
rather lanes of Paris. He at once ordered
more airy and cheerful apartments, and
"all her complaints vanished."
	From these facts, which cannot be disput-
ed, the most common mind should conclude
that cellars, and rooms on the northern side
of buildings, or apartments into which the 
sun does not immediately shine, should nev-
er be occupied as family-rooms or chambers
or as libraries or "studies." Such apart-
ments are only fit for "storage," or purpos-
es which never require persons to remain
in them over a few minutes at a time. And
every intelligent and humane parent will
arrange that the family-room and the cham-
bers shall be the most commodious, lightest
and brightest apartments in his dwelling.
—Hall's Journal of Health.


THERE is seldom a line of glory written
upon a man's face but a line of suffering
runs parallel with it; and they that read the
lustrous syllables of the one, and stop not
to decipher the spotted and worn inscription
of the other, get the lesser half of the lesson
earth has to give.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	PRINCESS Louise is President of the Na-
tional Society for the improvement of the
education of women.
	GOV. Bagley and the senate of Michigan
have confirmed the appointment by renomi-
nation of Mrs. Harriet A. Tenney as State
Librarian for two years.
	MRS. Jonathan Sturgis of New York has
been elected President of a Woman's Board
of Foreign Missions just organized by the
Dutch Reformed Church.
	HARRIET Hosmer will send to the Cen-
tennial Exhibition a set of golden doors.
An English Gentleman allowed her to du-
plicate them for that purpose.
	MRS. Emma B. Ryder of San Francisco
received the gold medal, of the New York
Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital,
for the best clinical report of lectures.
	THE Empress of Japan has decided on the
erection of a college for young girls, who
will become teachers, she has contributed
liberally from her own private purse to aid
in the expense of its construction.
	MRS. Carter of Washington a well-known
elocutionist, gave an entertainment to the
convicts in the State Prison at Charleston,
Mass. Wednesday evening May fifth.
	MRS. Emily Huntington Miller has writ-
ten a story-lecture entitled "The Parish of
Fair Haven."  It is said to be in great de-
mand in church lecture-courses just now.
	A MISS Ethridge of Maine, who was em-
ployed as a book keeper, was lately found
dead in a manner which indicated that her
death had been the result, of a freak of 
somnambulism.
	MRS. Ames, widow of Joseph Ames,
the distinguished painter, has herself
won distinction as a sculptor.  She has
long been noted in this country for her
beauty of character and person, her wit,
and unusual mimetic genius.
	MRS. Lincoln, widow of Ex-President
Lincoln has been adjudged insane by a jury
in the county court, and the evidence of a
number of physicians, as well as some other
corroborative testimony.  She has been ta-
ken to a private asylum at Batavia, Illinois.
	A COMPLIMENTARY reception was given
to Mrs. Caroline M. Severance at the rooms
of the New England Woman's Club, No 3,
Fremont Place, Boston, Apr. 24th, 1875.
Celebrated men have long been the recipi-
ents of complimentary honors, but it is only
recently that women have received any pub-
lic recognition of their services.  We would
heartily endorse the sentiment, "Honor to
whom honor is due, regardless of sex.


THE following youthful exactness comes
from a friend in Hingham, Mass., where it
recently occurred: An exhibition was given
there by Tom Thumb, at which the prices
were twenty-five cents for those ten years
of age, and twelve and a half for those un-
der. It was Johnny's tenth birthday, and
his cousin May aged thirteen thought
it her duty to celebrate it by taking him in
the afternoon to see the dwarf. Arriving at
the door she put down thirty-eight cents
and asked for two tickets. "How old is the
boy," asked the ticket seller. "Well," re-
plied Miss May, "this is his tenth birthday;
but he was not born till late in the after-
noon." The vender of tickets accepted the
accuracy of the averment, and handed her
the proper certficates of admission.


﻿USEFULNESS.

	An Essay read before the Young Ladies'
Society of the the 13th Ward.
	It has been long the habit of the world to
look upon woman as a being fitted espec-
ially for adornment.  Upon this name have
the epithets of grace, fragility and beauty
been bestowed, instead of those express-
ions that give us the idea of more solid
merit.  Many women, no doubt care only to
please and shine.  Their lives are made up
of superficial things that fail to make of the 
mind a treasure house. In seeking to make
the person attractive, one should not forget
to make the character solid.
	In the many comparisons that have been
made of man and woman, it has been as-
sumed that he is the foundation and walls
of the building and she—the pictures to
adorn the walls.  The opinions of society
may have made woman think that her un-
dertakings must be necessarially small, but
it has not yet been proven that she is not
mentally capable of performing labors which
require the most determined perseverance
and earnest thought.
	Is it not greatly the fault of women them-
selves that they have been stigmatized as
weak and incapable?
	They are too fond of amusement and ad-
miration; pleasure, to many seems to be the
chief aim.
	Their education is sadly at fault. In-
stead of reading history they read novels;
instead of going to lectures, they go to the 
theatre and instead of learning science,
they learn to play on the piano.
	Understanding as we do that our spirits
came from another world and took up bod-
ies on this for the purpose of experience and
improvement, it is the duty of us all, to
make our lives rich in good works. It
grieves the spirit of our Heavenly Father
for us to spend our time solely upon our-
selves.  Each young lady may ask her-
self, "How can I be useful? I see nothing
particular to do." Begin with asking God
to give you intelligence concerning the
needs of your own soul; to bless you with a 
willingness to sacrifice self-love for the love
of usefulness, and you will discover powers
within yourselves of which you have never
dreamed.						F.S.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		HARRISVILLE, May 16, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of inability that I en-
deavor to write a few lines to mingle my
voice with others of my sisters in promot-
ing the cause of truth: I can think of much
that is good, but how difficult to put it on
paper; I greatly appreciate the EXPONNET
for the instruction it contains and most es-
pecially the wise counsel how to guide our
children aright, for it is a constant fear to
me that I shall not do my duty by them. I
consider the Lord has placed a great re-
sponsibility upon me in giving me children;
therefore it is my daily prayer for wisdom
that I may do a mother's part in teaching,
instructing and governing them aright. I
see many times where I fall short of my
duty to them, but I can see where I am im-
proving, in reflecting upon what I have
read in the EXPONENT concerning these
duties, also many more useful things. I
know this work is true for myself, for the
Lord has been mindful of me and mine in
sickness, and answered my prayers many
times, and healed my children when nigh
unto death, for which I give the praise un-
to Him, the Giver of all good. I have a


good husband who is faithful in doing his
duty both to his family and to his God, for
which I am truly thankful.  I think we are
the most blest women now on the earth. I 
will close by saying may God bless our paper
and those who labor to make it truly val-
uable.
	Yours in all good work,
							M. T. 

		HARRISVILLE May 18th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Your much valued paper is received and
read with much pleasure by my subscribers;
there are but  few of them; the sisters join
together and take the paper; there are many
more read the paper than there are that
subscribe yet they are all subscribers.
	I wish the little girls and even grown up
and aged women were as interested in it as
my little subscriber Lovisa G. Harris, she is 
eleven years old, she dries peaches and sells
them for the money; and this is the way
she pays for her paper. 
							S. J. T.


For the EXPONENT.
		WOMAN'S MISSION.

	What is it? How often is this question
asked, and how often most elaborately dis-
cussed, and yet without coming to any defi-
nite understanding or final decision. Wo-
man's Congress, Woman's Clubs, and Wo-
man's Assocaations of various kinds are all
extensively treating upon this subject and
the ultimate issue of this important ques-
tion.  That Woman's Mission is a Home
Mission all mankind affirm, and seemingly
they understand it, in the strictest sense of
the word, to mean the fireside, the parlor,
and the kitchen; that a woman's influence
is always needed there is verily true, but
does that define the complete circle of her
work?  Can she not exert an extended in-
fluence in many ways without confining
herself to these prescribed boundaries?
Must she being a wife and a mother, neces-
sarially restrain all aspirations, for any fur-
ther development, and only live again, or
for the future through her husband and her
children? I can see no other solution to
this question than merging her own indi-
viduality into that of those whose interest
and welfare she is so exclusively serving.
	That every woman has an individual life,
as well as every man, I am bold to affirm
that she herself is responsible to God and to
the world equally with man, also, (even
though she be so fortunate as to secure a
husband) and is woman not held responsi-
ble in this wise and progressive age, for the
conduct, the morality and the social, men-
tal and spiritual education of her children?
If they err, then she has failed in some nice
point of distinction to comprehend her
whole duty, this is the verdict of the world;
women are not only made answerable for
their own faults but for those of future gen-
erations.
	Consequently holding such important
positions as regards the destiny of future
races, their education and advantages should
be the most superior it is possible to obtain.
	That men withold this from women is not
helping but hindering the advancement of
all that is most desirable, and eventually
they will find that public opinion is not to
be relied upon when it asserts:
	"He for God only, she for God in Him."
	May 14th, 1875.
							EMILE.


What animals are often seen at funerals?
Black kids."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	A doughmestic difficulty—heavy bread.
	The lawyers are coming out with spring suits.
	The latest thing in front door locks—night keys.
	What is everybody doing at the same time?—
growing old.
	A man who had been married twice to ladies
both named Catherine, advised his friends against
taking dupli-dates.
	An exchange says that while many people do
not like the Spring freshets, the bridges are quite
carried away with them.
	"C-c-c-can that p-p-p-parrot talk?" asked a
stuttering man of a German. "Ven he don't talk
so gooter as you, I schop his head off."
	"What a shame that I should be starving!" ex-
claimed a poor corset-maker out of work—"I have
stayed the stomachs of hundreds."
	"A young man charged with being lazy was asked
if he took it from his father, "I think not," was 
the reply. "Father's got all the laziness he ever
had."
	A Kansas gentleman has thoughtfully put his
front gate in the parlor, so that his daughter and
her young man can swing on it without taking cold
during the cold weather.
	Tom Hood speaks of a bird's building its nest
upon a ledge over the door of a doctor's office, as
an attempt to rear its young in the very jaws of
death.
	Apropos of the kissing discussion, here is Oli-
ver Wendell Holmes' definition of a kiss: "The
twenty-seventh letter of the alphabet—the love-la-
bial which it takes two to speak plainly."
	Teacher—"Who was the first man?" Head
scholar—"Washington; he was the first in war, first
in—" Teacher—"No, no; Adam was the first
man." Head scholar—"Oh, if you are talking of 
foreigners, I s'pose he was."
	Said a man to the mayor of London, whom he
met at the State fair, "I have seen beets in Cali-
fornia as big as I am." "I beg your pardon."
said the mayor, "but I think that you deceive
yourself."
	"Now, John; don't you think a women writes
more satisfactory letters than a man?" "Certain-
ly, my dear.  It is far more satisfactory to re-
ceive a letter from a woman than a man."  The
fond wife muses, and concludes that it is her mis-
sion to watch the mail.
	"My dear friend," said a gentleman to a bank-
rupt, the other day, "I am sorry to hear of your
misfortune. "Your family has my warmest sym-
pathies." "O don't trouble yourself about my
family. I looked out for them, you bet! Just save
your sympathies for the families of my creditors!"
	A sudden gust of wind took a parasol from the
hand of its owner, and a lively Irishman, dropping
his hod of bricks, caught the parachute. "Faith,
ma'am," said he, "if you were as strong as you
are handsome, it would not have got away from
you." "Which shall I thank you for first, the
service or the compliment?" asked the lady, smil-
ingly. "Troth, ma'am," said Pat, again touching
the place where once stood the brim of what was
once a beaver, "that look of your beautiful eye
thanked me for both."


NOTHING on earth can smile but a human
being. Gems may flash reflected light, but
what is a diamond flash compared with an
eye-flash and mirth-flash? A face that can-
not smile is like a bud that cannot blossom,
and dries upon the stalk. Laughter is  day,
and sobriety is night, and a smile is the
twilight that hovers gently between both,
and more bewitching than either.


FLOWERS.

	THE readiest and best way to find out
what future duty will be, is to do present
duty.
	THERE is a transcendent power in exam-
ple. We reform others unconsciously when
we walk uprightly.
	WHENEVER a man is ashamed of his re-
ligion, whatever it is, it is pretty certain
that he has but little of it.
	BLESSED be the hand that prepares a
pleasure for a child, for there is no saying
when and where it may bloom forth.
	TO all men, and at all times, the best
friend is virtue; and the best companions
are high endeavors and honorable senti-
ments.
	TRUE—It is a Chinese maxim, that for
every man who does not work, and for every
woman that is idle, somebody must suffer
cold and hunger.
	WE are among the number who look upon
sympathy as a cardinal virtue. Whoever
lacks this glorious trait in his character we
care not  to form his acquaintance.
	HE who is ashamed of the poor in the
presence of the rich, and of the unknown
in the presence of the famed, may be a base
enemy, but never a faithful friend.—Lava-
ter.
	THE soul that does good to others, grows
in goodness.  He that is a medium of bless-
ing to others is blessed himself thereby.
Hence, selfishness is folly as well as sin; for
while it prevents our doing good to others,
in the same degree it prevents our doing
good to ourself.
	HE who, in speaking of another, depicts
him in odious colors—who does not see, that
it is his own portrait which he draws?  Let us
judge of the sensibility of those whom we
wound in their most tender part, by our
own, and learn to forbear speaking evil of
others.
	WHO ARE RICH?—The man with good,
firm health is rich.
	So is the man with a clear conscience.
	So is the parent of vigorous children.
	So is the editor of a good paper with a big
subscription list.
	So is the child who goes to sleep with a
kiss on his lips, and for whose waking a
blessing waits.
	So is the maiden whose horizon is not
bounded by the coming man, but who has a
purpose in life, whether she meets him or
not.
	So is the young man, who, laying his
hand on his heart, can say,  "I have treated
every woman I ever met, as I should wish
my sister treated by other men."


FASHIONABLE RECIPE.
	Here is Lucy Hooper's recipe for dress-
ing a fashionable lady:
	"Take a young woman and turn her once
in a breadth of satin, twice in a gauze scarf,
and three times in a puff of tulle, add twen-
ty yards of flowery garlands wherewith to
season the whole.  The dish is then trussed
up, but has yet not sufficient dressing.
Something heavy in the shape of a train is
needed.  It may be made of metalassee,
with raised flowers, or brocade. Skewer it
on well behind, and garnish with gauze
butterflies, lace birds, or gilt beetles.  Keep
very warm at the base and very cool at the
top. Remove the dressing as much as pos-


sible from the upper part and pile it on be-
low.  Season with diamonds and serve up
warm."


Friendship Real.—Some true heart
has given expression to his generous na
ture in the following beautiful sentiments:
"Never desert a friend when enemies
gather around him.  When sickness falls
on the heart, when the world is dark and
cheerless, is the time to try a true friend.
They who turn from a scene of distress be-
tray their hypocrisy and prove that interest
moves them.  If you have a friend that
loves you, studies your interest and happi-
ness, be sure and sustain him in adversity.
Let him feel that his former kindness is ap-
preciated, and that his love is not thrown
away.  Real fidelity may be rare, but it ex-
ists in the heart.  Who has not seen and 
felt its power?  They deny its worth who
never loved a friend, or labored to make a
friend happy."


EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H.E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE and RETAIL FUR-
		NITURE DEALER,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
	WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 AND 79, First South Street.
			CLUB RATES.
	Deteremined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	-	-  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getter up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former,  as 
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
