VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1876.	NO.23


For the EXPONENT.
				LAST DAYS.

How simple some words! yet we cannot deny
They strike with a force, 'tis in vain to defy—
To the fond, faithful heart there are few that convey
Such a host of reflections as crowd the last day.

'Tis the knell of bright joy—of deep grief, of pale fear,
Times' only brief portion, we KNOW will appear,
And rushing through childhood, maturity, age!
We forget to observe the last days in each stage;

So progressive is life! and so noiseless, it steals,
The transitions are made without any appeals,
We pass by each stage as the links in a chain,
Forgetting, we ne'er shall behold then again.

Oh! my heart palpitates, and my pulses beat quick,
My blood rushes thrilling—my breathing is thick,
As I musingly dwell on a many last day
Of gushing delight, that has long past away!—

Who does not remember with heart-aching thr[--]
The last days of happiness! last days of woe?
The last day of friendship, endearments, and love?
The last day on earth of the dear ones above!

The last day of school—of the nursery—of youth,
Are all deeply engrav'd with a pencil of truth
And the last day we spent in our childhood's dear Home
'Ere we leapt into life through its mazes to roam[-]

How pure was the heart! and how clear was the brain,
We dreamt not of sorrow, we dreamt not of pain,
But many last days have since taught us to know
What it is to feel agony, parting and woe!

And how soaring so ever my spirit may be
And how glided soever hopes' summits I see
My hearts dial glows with no sun beaming ray
If friendship, or love, darkly points their last day.

Oh! Earth!—thou enchain'st us with many a spell[-]
And we love thy bright fetters endearingly well—
But let us remember with holy bow'd soul
That 'ere long there will come a last day to the whole.

And that Time—though he moves with inaudible tread
Is lining our features and bleaching our head;
But on let him come, if we truly can say
I'm prepared for the last—aye the very last day!

								HANNAH T. KING.
	S. L. City, Apr. 1876.


For the EXPONENT.
		TO YOUNG MEN.

	Young man, are you ambitious? Did you
ever have a desire to be greater, better and
wiser than you are? Or, are you completely
satisfied with yourself, and imagine (for in-
deed it is but mere imagination) that you
can be no better?
	If such an idea as this latter has entered
your mind, cast it from you and shun it as
a thing to be feared and despised, for, if
you are working to accomplish anything,
just so sure as you encourage this conceited
thought, just so sure will you come to a
stand-still. Do you know why? Listen—
when you allow yourself to be contented
with a few primary efforts, the success of
which may have flattered you into the be-
lief that you are a born genius, you be-
come blind to everything but self-love.
You survey yourself in a mirror which
shows but a part of you; you cannot see
your faults for you think you have none;
you can form no conjecture of a higher
grade of excellence than the one where
you now are, and, unless you do this, and
have a definite object to work to, a standard
ahead to claim your attention and incite
you to exertion, it is impossible for you to
advance; as well attempt to guide a vessel


across the ocean in a storm without the aid
of compass, rudder or sail.
	On the other hand, if you are striving to
make headway, and directing all your ef-
forts toward the encompassing of an hon-
orable ambition, though the prospect may
appear dark, and no light of encouragement
illumine the pathway you are pursuing, it
is at this very time that you are making
rapid advancement. Why? Because your
thoughts are not on yourself, but far ahead
resting upon the realization of the object to-
ward which you are surely making your way.
It is quite natural that this should appear
difficult, but never allow it to discourage
you. The obstacles that appal you for most
part are your imperfections (now plainly
visable) and a lack of faith in yourself.
These, and all others may be overcome, and
will diminish correspondingly to the
amount of confidence you place in your own
ability. Do not despair because you are
poor, nor heed those who despise your
humble position. These narrow souls
would be the first to lick your hand if you
were wealthy, even as a lap dog licks the
hand that feeds it—do not trust or notice
them. Cultivate the love and friendship of
those who are not to be influenced by the
changes of fortune. Who love you for
yourself; whether covered in rags, or clothed
in purple, and who remain, through sum-
mer and winter, in sunshine or in shadow,
TRUE TO THE CORE.
	Leave nothing to chance. Rather go to
it than wait for it to come to you. Be vir-
tuous, temperate and industrious.
	"Let God-like Reason, from her sovereign
throne, speak the commanding words I WILL
and it is done."
								THESPIS.


CHOOSE YE THIS DAY WHOM
			YE WILL SERVE.

	Would it not be well for us to stop a mo-
ment and consider this question? We
know we have the opposition of the world
to meet.
	I feel that the time has come for the sis-
ters in the Relief Societies to educate
themselves. Jesus said: "thou shalt love
the Lord thy God with all they heart." To
do this we will have to be prayerful and
humble before the Lord, and put on the
whole armor; we want knowledge, wisdom,
and understanding to cultivate the abilities
that God has endowed us with. We must try
and overcome this timidity which effects us,
exert ourselves to encourage one another, re-
frain from fault-finding, learn to be lenient
toward anothers' short-comings. We have
been slaves to FASHION, we must be so no
more. Let us be self-sustaining, and make
our own fashions; the Retrenchment So-
cieties were organized especially to set an
example and regulate the fashions in Zion.
Do we see it carried out as it should be? I
think not, not even in the Senior Associa-
tion. Our wants are few if we preserve our
tastes and habits simple, as they are by na-
ture. This is a day of choosing and we
must act upon our own agency and do the
choosing ourselves.
	Let us arouse and prepare for those things


that are coming upon us. We need a strong
determination to come out on the Lord's side,
we must be like the women of old, and adorn
ourselves with apparel made by our own
hands, and dispense with those superfluous
gew-gaws that only make us appear ridicu-
lous. Do not be ashamed to wear anything
made in Zion.
	Every faculty we possess is capable of be-
ing cultivated. When speculation and ex-
travagance are on the increase, women have
to be prepared for any fate; let us strive to
be honorable, and instead of pulling each
other down, let us strengthen and bless each
other. "Every weakness we overcome,
every temptation we gain victory over,
brings us nearer perfection. Then shrink
not at trials when we know they are sure
steps taken towards our advancement in the
onward and upward path."
	I would say in conclusion, to all, old and
young, Reform! In dress, manners and de-
portment, and make ourselves agreeable
by adding comfort to those around us. We
must think deeply and think for ourselves.
Let our motto be onward, heedless of the
scorn of a jealous world. We have set our
mark high, let us not cease our exertions
until we have attained it.
	BOUNTIFUL.				M. J. C.


For the EXPONENT.
			HOME POLITENESS.

	This is a subject that should be carefully
studied, taught and practiced in every fam-
ily, for a home without it cannot be perfect-
ly happy. How many mothers there are
who complain of their children being rude
and disobedient, and yet they never seem
to think they are in part to blame. Instead
of speaking kindly and pleasantly, they are
so harsh and stern that in time the child be-
comes hardened and heedless. If moth-
ers were to speak in a cheerful and
pleasant tone when they ask the child to
perform some small errand, the ready re-
sponse would, be yes mother, and the little
heart would be filled with joy instead of
pain.
	Children have rights that should be re-
spected and held just as sacred as older per-
sons. After a child has performed any duty,
it is far better to say that's a good child, or
thank you my dear.
	People say: "oh my c[---] learn so much
bad language outside, and are getting to be
so rude."
	If all would try to make home pleasant
and attractive, children would love to stay
at home, and would not have the opportu-
nity of learning so much bad language else-
where. If we would treat children polite-
ly they would be more apt to treat each
other politely. As Latter-day Saints we
should endeavor to rear our children in a
way and manner so as to fit them for impor-
tant stations in life. It is the young and
rising generation that must bear off this
Kingdom. No person can succeed in any
position of importance unless they under-
stand the little courtesies that make life
pleasant.
							M. R.
Clifton March 9th, 1876!


179		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	NEPHI CITY, Apr. 13, '76.
EDITOR EXPONEMT.
	The Young Ladies' Society here, meet
twice a month and spend the time in talk-
ing of the things concerning their religion.
	Many of the young ladies seem to be
deeply interested in the Association and
take pleasure in composing essays, and read-
ing selections from good books and papers.
	The Association has quite a supply of
braiding material on hand, and judging
from the improvement that is being made,
they will soon be able to manufacture their
own hats and bonnets.
	Being desirious of raising funds to pur-
chase books, several parties were given
during the winter, in which the counsel of
our much esteemed President Brigham
Young, with regard to dancing was strictly
observed.
	Yours with respect,
		L. L. FOOTE, Sec'y.
			S. HOYT, Assistant.

	WALES, SANPETE Co., April 8th, 76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Society for Young La-
dies' was organized in this place by Bishop
John Reese and his Counselors, March 29,
1876; the officers as follows:
	Maggie J. Reese, President,
	Martha Ann Reese,
	Hannah Freak
	Lizzie Reese, Sec'y.		Counselors.
	As our settlement is a small one, the So-
ciety was organized with ten members.
We hold our meetings regularly, and desire
to improve in everything pertaining to our
relations in life, socially, physically and re-
ligiously. We have already raised money
enough to subscribe for the EXPONENT for
one year. We hope to be visited during
the summer by some of the more experi-
enced sisters from Salt Lake City.
	Yours, &c.,
		M. J. REESE, Prest.

	TOOELE CITY, April 14th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Spirit and blessing of God our Fath-
er is with us in our labors and meetings to-
gether as a Relief Society, and although we
may be feeble at present, we realize that
wisdom and knowledge are requisite in
seeking those gifts and adornments that
are becoming to woman, and highly nec-
essary to those who have received the
Everlasting Gospel and have the privileges
we enjoy, of learning from inspired men
and women, the principles of exaltation.
	We highly prize the EXPONENT, for it is
full of gems of purest light; whoever will
read it candidly will certainly perceive
there is a different influence in Utah to what
there is in any other country, and that we
are really "a peculiar people." I hope the
rest may be said of us with as much truth
"zealous of good works." We are well
aware, however humble our labors may be,
they will result in good, if we work with a
pure motive.
	We are trying this season to raise means
to build a house, for there is quite a large
Retrenchment Society here, who require a
meeting-house as well as ourselves.
	Our President, Sister Meiklejohn, is most
untiring and energetic iu her labors, and
possesses the full confidence and love of the
sisters in this place.
	That we may do our part in helping roll
on this great work, and eventually be saved

[COLUMN 2]

with the sanctified, is the prayer of your
Sister in the Gospel,
			EMILY WARBURTON; Sec.

	MONA, JUAB Co.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have read with great pleasure, the re-
ports of the different Societies, and we feel
much interested in their prosperity, and
wish to be one with them in their efforts for
Mutual Improvement. On the second day
of March the officers of the Relief Society,
assisted by President John Haws, and sev-
eral others, organized a Retrenchment As-
sociation. The following officers were elect-
ed: Miss Maggie Somerville, President,
Mrs. Eliza Somerville, and Mrs. Mattie
Haws, Counselors Mrs. Susie Tibbs, Sec-
retary, Mrs. Hannah Somerville, Treasur-
er. Our resolutions are similar to those
adopted by other societies of the same na-
ture. We hold meetings semi-monthly.
Our object is to enlarge the mind by reading
useful books, and cultivating our moral and
intellectual natures, realizing that this is
the only means by which we can enjoy
true happiness, either in this life or in the
life which is to come. We desire to over-
come evil in its various forms, and to fulfill
all obligations required of us as accounta-
ble beings, destined for eternity. We have
abandoned round dancing, and are trying to
make a more judicious use of our time than
we have done in the past.
	Our Relief Society was organized in 1868,
with Sister Eliza Somerville as President,
she is remarkable for her energy and perse-
verance. She has had disadvantages to
contend with, mainly arising from the
members being dilatory in attending meet-
ings; but I am pleased to say that her un-
tiring efforts have been blest, and that the
sisters seem inspired with new ardor and
zeal, and we hope to accomplish much good.
Our business transactions have been on a
limited scale, yet we have administered to
the wants of the sick and needy, in every
instance that has come under our observa-
tion.
	With an earnest desire for the success of
the EXPONENT,
	I Remain, Respectfully,
		SUSLE E. TIBBS, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would give you a little of my
experience and some of my views about
the treatment of infants which is one of
great importance. I hear of so many little
children dying. The thought arises in my
mind what is the cause? I am led to think
it is a lack of wisdom in many cases on the
part of the mothers. They trust too much
to outside influences. I will tell my young
sisters the course I used to pursue when
my babies were sick. If I was alone with
them I used to lay my hands upon them and
with all the faith I had ask the Lord to re-
buke the Destroyer, and then I would kneel
down and ask my Heavenly Father to di-
rect my mind as to what course I should
take; and whatever came to my mind first,
however strange and simple it appeared, I
always acted upon it, and it never failed to
relieve my children. When our Heavenly
Father suffers the Destroyer to afflict our
children He knows best what will restore
them. I never administered any drugs or
spirits or soothing syrups in all my life. If
they were so sick that I had to lose my rest
I would ask the Lord to give me strength
and patience to bear with them. I would

[Column 2]
not allow any person to administer any-
thing to my child but myself, I think the
mother is, or should be the proper person to
administer to her own offspring. If she
will put her whole trust in God, she may al-
ways have faith; and if her child should be
taken from her for a wise purpose, she will
have the sweet consolation of having done
her duty, and that her child has gone to its
Father, pure and uncontaminated. I think
if our mothers would instill into the minds
of their daughters the necessity of attain-
ing and exercising faith in the ordinance of
the gospel, instead of using drugs and rely-
ing on doctors, it would be a strong bul-
wark against the power of the Destroyer.
Our infants have not knowledge enough to
have faith for themselves; therefore it is
the duty of parents to exercise it for them.
Every mother ought to study the nature of
her child, and be very careful what food she
takes when she is nursing it, she should
not gratify her own taste with anything
that will not agree with it, but should deny
herself. If the baby is not inclined to
sleep just when you want it, be patient and
do not give it anything that you do not
know the nature of; do not listen to anyone
that has not faith in the priesthood in case
of sickness. Let us seek to our Father in
heaven for wisdom, and he will not with-
hold it from us, if we are living our relig-
ion and in the line of our duty. My sis-
ters, into whose hands these few simple
lines may chance to fall, let me entreat of
you not to let them pass by unheeded.
When our children are taken from us, we
do not know the loss they may sustain.
Even if they sustain none, we do. I often
feel that the Lord is displeased with us for
neglecting our duties as we often do. We
trust too much to the arm of flesh. We are
told in the Bible, "they that know their
Master's will and do it not, shall be beaten
with many stripes." I thtnk it would give
me greater sorrow than to have my child-
ren taken away from me, If I knew I had
neglected any duty for them. The time to 
bless and comfort them is while they are
with you, it is too late when they are taken
away.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
						SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, March 8, 1876.


THE GIRL OF THE PERIOD.

	She wore a round hat put upon the back
of her head like the aureole of a saint, to
whom her sweet face gave her an appear-
ance of kindred. Her bodice was close fit-
ting—indeed, drawn tight about the waist,
like the bark of a young, tender tree. Her
scant skirt, pulled light in front so as to
show her form, and "tied back," terminat-
ed behind in a short fan-like train, like the
tail of a mermaid. She was mounted on
shoes seven sizes too small for her feet—in-
deed, only her toes seemed to have accom
modation in them; and the high heels com-
ing under the instep tilted her forward and
completed the grace of her carriage. When
she walked she put down one lit[-]le foot af-
ter the other as if each leg were as elastic
as an iron rod. It was a great [-]leasure to
see her pegging along, a thing of perfect
beauty, like one of the drawings of some
mythological biped by some of the old
masters.


GOOD luck is a man of pluck, with his
l[-]eeves rolled up, and working to make it
ome out right.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	180


FOUND.

Found in the river at break of day,
A lifeless body, floating away,

Floating away to the wild, wild lake,
Where the rough-ribbed waves roll and break

O'er the white bleached bones of many a score
Who never were found and brought to shore.

Out from the current space that rolled,
Out from the waters so dark and cold,

Out from the refuge for shame and sin,
Dripping and lifeless, they brought her in.

Down to the Morgue, without a groan
Or shudder, they brought the fair unknown:

There in the chamber of death to wait
For friends to claim if they learned her fate.

But oh! for the friends so far away,
She left one dreary and dismal day;

Left —yet a mother whose hairs were gray,
Clung round her at parting to plead her stay.

How oft in that drear dark life must she
Have looked to the home of her infancy;

How oft when the far-off stars looked down
Upon her, wandering about the town.

Must her alpine cottage have sprung to view,
Away 'mid the rough-ridged rocks of blue;

Despised, forsaken, at last she came
Down to the river to hide her shame.

Only a moment upon the bank,
She coiled her hair, with the night dew dank;

Only a moment she heard the roar
And tumult around her —then all was o'er.

Found in the river at break of day,
A lifeless body floating away.

While in her pocket a note all torn
Was found, to send to her friends forlorn.
—Golden Dawn.


[Column 1]
LETTERS.

		VIRGIN CITY, April 10th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are living in an isolated little pocket
in the mountains a long way from so called
civilization, and although we are deprived
of many of the advantages enjoyed in
large towns, still we are free from many of
the vices that those living in cities have to
contend with.  I often think there is noth-
ing to prevent us from living our religion.
Our Relief Society is in a prosperous condi-
tion although there are but few active mem-
bers.  We are striving to do what we can
by our labor (for that is all we have to de-
pend upon) to aid in the upbuilding of the
kingdom of God.
	We had a Leap Year Party February 22d
for the benefit of the St. George Temple;
we cleared over expenses $26,50.  We have
but one poor family that has to be assisted,
but we can do much good and receive bless-
ings by attending the meetings.  There is
very much said about RETRENCHMENT
lately; as far as dress is concerned we have
but little to retrench from; we see but little
of the fashions unless we go from home, or
visitors come to see us.  I regret to say that
some of the prominent Retrenchment La-
dies have been dressed in a style scarcely
in keeping with the idea, and especially as
they are looked to as patterns of propriety
and consistency.  It seems that a woman
now-a-days to dress plain and neat without
superfluities, has to possess considerable
moral courage.  Why is it that among Lat-
ter-day Saints we look so much at the ap-
pearance?  How many good, moral, but
poor people are deprived of the pleasure to
be derived from attending social parties, be-
cause they will not dress beyond their
means?

[Column 2]
	I often think that the prophecies of Isa-
iah concerning the daughters of Zion are
being fulfilled as fast as possible.  How few
we see with a good head of hair.  The styles
in which it has been worn the last few
years, blown and tangled together, would
destroy the most beautiful hair.  God de-
signed it to be an ornament, and we should
not adorn ourselves with sea grass and oth-
er foreign follies.  My advice to young la-
dies is to do up their hair in a neat tidy
manner, with as few hair-pins and combs
as possible, don't let it be blown about and
broken up by the wind.  My hair is thick,
and has not been cut since I was a little
girl, and I never let it hang loose upon any
occasion.
	Peach and other trees are now in full
bloom, these with the green lucerne patch-
es interspersed, make our little town look
very pleasant, like a well stocked flower-
garden.  Last season we lost all our fruit
with the exception of grapes, by frost; we
are in hopes that it will be preserved this
season, as fruit is our main harvest.
	Wishing the welfare of Zion, I subscribe
myself your sister in the Covenant of Peace,
					ALICE ISOM.

	DRAPER, SALT LAKE CO, Apr. 19, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is a very quiet little place and its
name is not often seen in the EXPONENT,
but it is said "Let your light shine," there-
fore in behalf of my sisters; and also for
the encouragement of some, I have written
these few lines.  We hold our Retrench-
ment meetings once a week, and unless bad
weather prevents, they are well attended
by sisters who are striving to become unit-
ed.  We are thankful to our Heavenly
Father for the many blessings which we en-
joy, and for the privilege of thus meeting
together in an association, and we realize
that these societies are calculated to make
us stronger in the principles of our religion,
and more noble and worthy to become
mothers in Israel.
	We had been counseled to cease the
round dances, but as they had become the
favorite and almost universal dance, it ap-
peared at first, as though it would be a hard
matter to get the young to comply with the
request. But after being organized the sis-
ters immediately resolved to cease dancing
them.  The young men complied without
the least resistance, so there is no more
round dancing among us, and our parties
are not held later than ten o'clock in the
evening, and the smell of liquor has not
been known in our dances this winter,
which is one of the greatest improvements.
It is said that whatever may be the customs
or laws of any country, women always give
the tone to morals.  Therefore dear sisters
let us be guarded in our actions that we
may always wield a good influence. Let us
live our religion in every particular that we
may have courage to do right, power to re-
buke sickness and disease; and always have
the Spirit of God to combat with our ene-
mies.  We must not let the faults of others
weaken us in the faith, but let it be an in-
centive to live better lives ourselves. Our
Heavenly Father is a just God, and will not
let the ways of the wicked destroy the sal-
vation of the righteous.
	With a desire to be faithful to the end, I
am your Sister in the Gospel.
							J. A. S.


[Column 1]
		USE GOOD ENGLISH.

	A great deal depends on early habit; and
correct language learned in early life is eas

[Column 2]
ily continued ever afterward. Whenever
young persons use a wrong word, let them
immediately select the right expression and
repeat it to themselves a number of times,
and in this way it will soon become easy
and natural. Without such repetition in
use they will certainly fail. Many things in
life depend on a good use of English; and
on the other hand, nothing will retard suc-
cessful progress in life sooner than bad
English, bad pronunciation, and slang words.
Edward Everett said that "to read the Eng-
lish language well, to write a neat, legible
hand and to be master of the first four rules
of arithmetic"—I call this a good education.
And if you add the ability to write pure
grammatical English, I regard it as an ex-
cellent education.
	Now, to correct errors and establish a
good practice the work must be taken in de-
tail. One thing must be done at a time.
One of the first steps then, is to use simple
language to express just what we want to
say. There are several words often improp-
erly used for many different meanings, and
in this way they loose their force. Take, for
example, the word fix—the strict meaning
of which is to make fast, to settle, but it is
improperly used in many other ways, as "I
fixed my hair, I fixed the wagon, I fixed
my gloves, I fixed the room," &c.; instead
of "I brushed my hair, I repaired the wag-
on, I sewed my gloves, I put my room in
order," &c.
	Another word used still more loosely and
widely, is, "nice." This properly means
over exact; punctilious; delicate; subtle.
But is often employed to denote all com-
mendable qualities. We often hear careless
speakers say "this apple is nice," instead of
delicious; she is a nice girl," instead of 
good or agreeable; a nice landscape," for a
lovely landscape; a nice cottage," instead of
a snug one; a nice man," instead of a geni-
al man; a nice mountain," instead of a
grand or lofty one; "a nice drink of water,"
for a refreshing one; "a nice story," instead
of an interesting one; "a nice smell," to a
flower, for a pleasant odor; and so on with-
out limit. Some persons look nice, walk
nice, talk nice, make a nice visit, write a
nice letter, live in a nice house, wear nice
clothes, make a nice present, &c.
	Again, the word "awful," which means
dreadful, fearful, sublime, is used as a gen-
eral adjective for nearly all purposes, both
good and bad, by those who cannot select a
separate and appropriate adjective for each
separate purpose; and we accordingly hear
of an awful nice day, an awful dull knife,
an awful good pear, an awful old hat, etc.,
etc.
	Another word, "got," is used profusely
by some speakers. Some of our readers
have perhap's heard the man's naration:—
"After I got your letter I got on horseback,
and when I got to Boston I got a carriage,
but I got wet before I got to the office, and
I got such a cold as I can't get rid of. I got
to the hotel and got my supper, and then I
got to bed, but it was long before I got to
to sleep. When I got up in the morning
and got my breakfast, I got to the cars, and
got home before night."
	To avoid all such inelegancies, or to cor-
rect them when they have become a habit,
repeat to yourself the correction, and con-
tinue to repeat it till it becomes ready and
familiar in use. In this way young persons
may acquire the habit of using the best
language, and the longer it is continued the
more easy and natural it will become. Al-
ways select the shortest and simplest words,
and those which convey distinctly the in-
tended meaning. All this will require at-
tention and pains, without which nothing
is ever accomplished.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate, Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 1, 1876.


MORE ABOUT ECONOMY.

	At a special meeting recently held in Ogden
City, President Young in making remarks up-
on the needless expenditures of the women of
the Latter-day Saints, calculated that if he had
the surplus thus wasted, a temple might be
built every year. He also made a similar esti-
mate of the money unprofitably spent by the
brethren.
	When called to account for this lamentable
mis-use of property, surely many of the Latter-
day Saints will have great occasion to be more
ashamed of their foolish vanity than they are
of the economy they are sometimes forced to
use.
	It is an absurd and ridiculous weakness of
which some people are possessed, to desire to
appear richer than they are. But a really sen-
sible man or woman will not be ashamed of
any economy which it is necessary to practice.
In considering the remarks of the President on
the subject still farther, it is clearly apparent
that of right, those of this people who are pos-
sessed of the largest amount of worldly goods
have no more to spend in unnecessary display
than the poorest among them. He said em-
phatically that he, his brethren or his sisters
had no time or means to spend for nought.
	It would become every woman belonging to
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints to examine her own life, and seek to dis-
cover whether she is spending time or means
for nought, or causing or encouraging others to
do so. No one need indulge the thought that
[--]cause her neighbors, who spend so much
more than she does, excuse themselves in liv-
ing on in careless ease and extravagance, that
it is useless for her to cultivate in herself and
in her household true economy, which is al-
ways in keeping with good taste.
	Every house keeper should be aware that it
is more to her credit and the comfort of those
she serves, that her tumblers are clear and free
from lint than that they should be elaborately
cut; that her knife handles are perfectly wiped
than of a costly material. And so of other
things. The enjoyment of a company at din-
ner depends much more on neatness and good
order than on expensive table furniture on a
few dishes well cooked than a great variety
badly served.
	If a young lady is blest with affectionate and
indulgent parents, she should be careful not to
influence them to incur expenses they can ill
afford, either in dress, furniture or entertain-
ments. She should understand that their feel-
ings are all on her side, and instead of appeal-
ing to them, consult their judgment and ex-
perience, and beg them not to grant her re-
quest unless they think it right and know they
can afford it. Even in cases where young peo-


ple think they are unnecessarily restricted they
are apt to be mistaken. The ambition of par-
ents for their children is generally as great as
that of children for themselves; and without a
full knowledge of their father's affairs they are
not capable of judging how much he can af-
ford to spend on their pleasures.
	Great wisdom, as well as much fortitude is
necessary to enable a person to practice true
economy in these days.


[Column 1]
				CRITICISM.

			"O, breath of public praise,
		Short-liv'd and vain! oft gained without desert
		As often lost unmerited				HARVARD.

	It is much more easy to tear down than to
build up. Adapting this saying to the depart-
ment of literature, one can readily perceive
that it runs thus, it is far easier to criticise than
compose, and there are more critics than au-
thors; a[-]d as Sir Walter Scott said "there are
literary tinkers, who after the fashion of their
class, make two holes in patching one." It is
more easy to read a book than write one." But
to be popular is also to be unpopular; or as we
have often seen verified there is a class of per-
sons who are never comfortable except when
they are uncomfortable.
	If one would accomplish a fixed purpose in
whatever department one may select, it is well
to receive counsel, advice, suggestions, criti-
cisms even, and pleasantly too--profit by them,
applying them to practical use; but if one is
laboring earnestly with a definite idea in one's
own mind, do not let any of these hindrances
or helps (as the case may be) destroy the de-
velopment of the idea, or prevent the original
intention.

						"The noisy praise
		Of giddy crowds, is changeable as winds;
		Still vehement, and still without a cause;
		Servant to change and blowing in the tide
		Of swo[-]n success; but yeering with the ebb,
		It leaves the channel dry."				DRYDEN,

	People are very ready with counsel and criti-
cism, but one must use some discretion; no
doubt it is all well-meant, but one can even
have too much of a good thing. If we were to
heed all the criticisms etc., what would be the
result? It is difficult to define.
	One says our paper is too religious, another,
it is too monotonous; then we are told to let
politics alone--then polygamy-- "believe it,
live in it, if you wish, but do not write about it,
it is offensive." Pshaw! persons whose very
presence should be loathsome to virtuous people
may be received in society, may throng public
places of amusement and resort; but polygamy
is not a fitting subject for a woman's pen; it is
too indelicate. We must not speak of it, we
must not write about it; sincerity and convic-
tion are not sufficient pretexts; it is unpopular.
	The world were anxious heretofore to learn
whether women really believed in the prin-
ciples of plural-marriage and acted upon their
own free-agency, or whether they were kept in
bondage by the mere physical power of man.
And now when they have found voi[--] through
the medium of the press, and express their
opinions etc., the cry is, it is not in keeping
with this age of progression.
	A vast deal more might be said in this strain
but let this much suffice; "Ill-selected subjects
indelicate, weapons dull as lead." Never
mind, we are aware it is up-hill work, an inno-
vation upon the current system of morals; we
know this to be a HIGHLY RESPECTABLE AGE,
and we expect opposition, and many of our rea-
ders to condemn and criticise our "poor weak
hobbling lines," but we know the apostle said:
"There shall come in the last days, scoffers and
many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall
be increased."

[Column 2]
	Nevertheless, resolutely do we confess to our
candor and sincerity, and as we have tresspass-
ed in times past, we entreat your charity in
the future, to hear the whole budget of indi-
vidval confessions. Let any one tell truths of
themselves, and be consistent if they can.
Why then intrude such unrequired counsel?
We will leave the harvest of praise to those
who can cater to the public taste; but for us,
there is only frankness, sincerity and candor,
and a writer to succeed must possess some mor-
al courage, if not physical. And we have al-
ready become full aware that if we cannot win
applause, we can at least call forth criticism.


NOTICE.—By mutual consent and wish of
the citizens of Pine Kanyon, Tooele County,
near Tooele City, the name of their place has
been changed to Lakeview.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Several Reports from Societies, and other
correspondence are laid over for want of space.
We are compelled to repeat again, we must be
in possession of the real name of the corres-
pondent, before we can publish their articles.
	ON WEDNESDAY morning. April 19th, Presi-
pent Young with a small party, among whom
were several of the Twelve and some other
ladies and gentlemen, went on a special train
to Ogden, to be present at the dedication of
the Relief Society's new building. Arriving
at the new iron bridge across the Weber, most of
the party alighted and stood on the river bank
to get a good view of the bridge and see the
train cross and recross. Arriving in Ogden the
party immediately wended their way to the
building about to be dedicated, where were al-
ready assembled the President and officers of
the Relief and Retrenchment Societies; also
President F. D. Richards, Bishop Farr, Mayor
Herrick and others. The building is intended
not only to hold meetings, but to combine dif-
ferent departments of HOME INDUSTRIES for
women. The front is used as a store for straw
and other goods, the larger room at the back
for a work-room and for holding meetings. It
reflects great credit upon the sisters of Ogden;
both Relief and Retrenchment Societies we
understand having contributed towards its
erection and they anticipate clearing off all
encumbrances this year. The President of the
Relief Society expressly desired President
Young to preside over the meeting. After
singing President Young called upon Elder
Joseph F. Smith to offer the dedicatory prayer.
He then called upon W. C. Dunbar to sing "O
ye mountains high," &c., assisted by C. W.
Penrose. He then addressed the meeting,
speaking in the most commendable terms of
the efforts of the sisters in assisting to sustain
HOME INDUSTRIES, taking care of the sick,
practising economy, &c. His remarks were
concise, pithy and to the point, relating to the
practical lives of the Saints. He was followed
by each of the Twelve in succession, and Sis-
ters E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young, M. I. Horne
and Susan S. Young, each one bearing a faith-
ful testimony and expressed their sincere earn-
estness in the work of the "Last Days." After
meeting the party repaired to the residence of
Pres. F. D. Richards where a tasteful and
sumptuous repast was hurriedly partaken of,
and then went directly to the cars, arriving in
this city about half-past four, p. m. We wish
the good sisters of Ogden the most entire suc-
cess in carrying out their ideas for the promo-
tion of labor in all the departments of HOME
INDUSTRIES which come within Woman's
Sphere.


SPECIMENS OF fine Honiton and Cluny lace
consisting of black silk lace veils, white lace
collars, barbes, wide and narrow lace for trim-
mings, are now in my possession. These laces
are home productions, made by Mrs. L. W.
Crompton, Mrs. L. and P. Durant and Mrs. J.
Adams, of Morgan Co. This business is likely
to prove one of the most lucrative of our
HOME INDUSTRIES.
	I would also say I am agent for the book en-
titled "Correspondence of Palestine Tourists;"
of which book notice was made in WOMAN's
EXPONENT March. 15. Orders promptly filled
from Relief Societies, or private families
throughout the Territory.

	Address:	Mrs. E. Davis, 14th Ward,
							Salt Lake City.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is some time since you have heard from
I'll Try, so I thought I would drop a line to
your many readers and tell them of a call I
made at Mrs. Rumells', one block east of the
theatre; I had heard considerable said of the
"Straw Hat Establishment," that started one
year ago, and I was happily surprised to see
the marked improvement, and the variety of
hats, so tastily trimmed and all made from
braid manufactured by the ladies of Utah.
	In the working apartment the braid by the
hundreds of score of all kinds, and variety,
was being passed from hand to hand, through
the different branches until it was finished by
the trimmer, for the sales-room, and her slen-
der fingers seemed to travel over the work with
much dispatch and taste.
	In the sales room, I saw a variety of hats de-
signed for both sexes, also very tasteful and
elegant bonnets; ladies of taste and refinement
were there purchasing hats and bonnets for
their own wear.
	The trimmings were principally imported,
but in course of time as our silk raising de-
velops we will be able to have our own ribbons
etc.
	I could not help asking myself the question
are there any Latter-day Saints that are so
whimsical and so lost to reason and sound sense,
that they would rather be seen wearing im-
ported millinery and thereby support a foreign
people, and leave our HOME MANUFACTURES
unsupported, and deprive our own people of
labor and self-sustenance, than to wear arti-
cles manufactured in our own Territory.
	My dear readers, who of you are willing to
patronize, and thus help in sustaining this great
movement, HOME INDUSTRIES.
								I'LL TRY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	182


[COLUMN 1]

	FAREWELL ADDRESS,

TO THE YOUNG LADIES' ASSOCIATION
	IN THE 13TH WARD.

DEAR SISTERS:
	It has been my lot to be called from your
mist, but I go cheerfully knowing that if I
can but do my duty, I will have peace and hap-
piness, no matter where I am. Sisters, I could
not go without showing you my friends and
associates in the Society, that I shall carry a
remembrance of the many happy hours we
have passed together, through all time. I love
you dear friends, as though you were in reality
the name I so love to call you, sisters. The
way in which we have been associated with
each other, has seemed to link us closer togeth-
er than years of common intimacy would have
done. A thought comes in my mind of nam-

[COLUMN 2]

ing you, sweet sisters, just as your spirits and
souls have appeared to me, FLOWERS. In old-
en times it was customary to use flowers for
letteres, to convey thoughts and feelings that
were too delicate for words. So I have follow-
ed in the footsteps of the ancients, and named
each of you a flower; and you must remember
that whenever I think of you, I shall associate
you with the pet name I have called you here.
I hope that each floweret in this bouquet will
be worthy to be transplanted in the garden of
Heaven.
	First we must have the rose. Queen of
flowers and most beautiful of all, our own dear
Zina, is our Rose. Next we must have some-
thing white, and so we will call our blue-eyed
Ida, the Apple-blossom, delicate and sweet.
Then Miss McLean, the Lily, pure and stately.
Then something bright next, our dark-haired
Louie, the scarlet geranium, brilliant and
beautiful. Annie the white camelia, Emily,
the fragrant Lilac, Emeline is the Oleander.
Now for variety, something unassuming yet
lovely and modest, with the most delicate per-
fume, the sweet English Violet, this repre-
sents May. After, a graceful, drooping,
white Fuschia, this we will call our dear sec-
retary. What is that flower that sends up
such a fragrant perfume, and is so modest
and retiring that you will have to search to
find its delicate blossoms? It is Flora, the
Mignonette. Close by we find the Queenly
Hyacinth; this is our Lute. Now for a bit of
rare Scotch Heather Bell, our Scotch lassie
Sarah. We have not named our Daisy yet;
this must be Elinor. I can scarcely decide
what to name our dark-eyed Ida, shall we call
her the Double Pink? Spicy, fragrant and
lovely. Her sisters are Honeysuckles. Belle,
Bessie, and Josephine are our Blue Bells. Our
lovely Georgie shall be the Pond-Lily, with its
wavy, velvety leaves. Nettie is the Pansy,
royal, purple eyed Pansy. Maime, is the
Orange Blossom, sweet and retiring. Fannie,
dear, sweet Fannie, is the Lily-of-the-valley.
Elvira, the Morning Glory. Georgie Clawson,
the Dahlia; Ruthie, our Japonica. Now we
must have some Verbenas, Lemon blossoms,
and Sweet-peas. These we will call Annie,
Maggie, Annie Smith, and our other Sarah.
There are a few more of the girls whose names
I do not know, but whose faces are perfectly
familiar; these we will call Hellotrope, Snow-
drops, and Forget-me-nots. What am I? you
will say, a bit of Green Fern to relieve the
brilliancy, and harmonize the coloring of love-
liness. Our dear President is the Golden Thread
that binds us together in love, harmony, and
unity; and the hand which has plucked us, and
which we hope will hold us through all time
and eternity is the Omnipotent hand of Provi-
dence.
	A.B.D.
S.L. City, April 20th, 1876.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	ANNIE Whitney has sent to the Centen-
nial the statuettes of Roma and Charles
Sumner.
	THE widow of Frederick VII of Den-
mark, (the Countess Lanner) has bequeathed
all her vast estate valued at $4,000,000 to
support institutions for orphaned and de-
serted girls of Denmark; at Jagerspris,
in North Zealand, it is the intention to
erect the central building of the institution
first, and to make it sufficiently large to
provide suitably for the maintenance of
six or eight hundred children.
	MRS. Sarah E. Bonney, of Sterling, Mass.,


has sent to the Centennial Exhibition, two
cases of choice articles. One case contains
twenty-five birds of different varieties,
from the humming-bird to the owl, all shot
by herself, and mounted, after being pre-
pared for that purpose, upon an imitation
branch of laurel. The second case con-
tains a muff, boa, and hat, made of duck's
feathers selected and arranged, and put on
in the most delicate and tasteful manner.
Also several bird-fans, with the wings
spread and the full size of the breast and
head of the dove in the center of each fan.
	"BLACK Swan," the celebrated and ac-
complished vocalist, died suddenly in Phil-
adelphia on Friday morning Apr. 14. Dur-
ing the last few years she had not appeared
before the public, except to sing at concerts
for the benefit of charitable institutions.
She was born a slave and was refused a su-
perior musical education on account of her
color. However by her own gifts of genius
she won the patronage of many distin-
guished people and ladies of rank in Eng-
land and throughout Europe and sang
before many of the crowned heads, receiv-
ing almost unlimited adulation and numer-
ous elegant and costly presents. Her name
was Elizabeth Taylor Greenfield, and at
the time of her death she was sixty-eight
years old.
	"MLLE. Bettina De Rothschild, daughter
of Baron Alfonso, head of the Paris House,
marries one of her Vienna cousins." The
reception in honor of the contract being
signed, was given March 19th. A great
amount was then given away in charity, as
well as in munificient presents. The
wealthy fiancee gave to five poor young girls
suitable dowries. This distinguished young
lady, at sixteen passed an examination for
a teacher at the Hotel de Ville, and several
other young ladies of the most wealthy
families followed her example, which was
certainly a commendable one, as changes
in life and governments sometimes reduce
even the wealthiest persons to comparative
if not abject poverty.


DO SOMETHING FOR YOURSELF
		AND YOUR COUNTRY.

	He who changes a waste place into a
blooming garden or fruitful field, he who
plants a tree, shrub, or vine, has performed
a lasting benefit upon mankind. These
may gladden the eye and heart of thou-
sands, may give food to the hungry, and
shade to the weary, and such acts are mon-
uments to their industry. He who pro-
duces the means to feed, clothe, or give
comfort, has done a good work, and thus far
has carried out one of the objects of his be-
ing. The man who creates one dollar from
the crude and otherwise useless material of
nature is more to be honored than he who
conquers a kingdom, and one who produces
from the soil wherewith to feed the hungry
and clothe the naked is greater in the scale
of usefulness, than he who by the profits of
trade and extortion becomes a millionaire.
Young men and old, be wise and seek out
wisdom and become proficient in all useful-
ness, but rather seek to create, than craftily
take a profit and living from what others
make from natures' elements.—Utah Pomo-
logist.


A HENPECKED husband said in extenua-
tion of his wife's raids upon his scalp, "You
see, she takes her own hair off so easily,
she doesn't know how it hurts to have
mine pulled out."


183		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				WOMAN.

	We think no word in the English lan-
<afad more="" extended:="" forrriiiitherbf'is;ari="" inex-="" pressible="" feeling="" connected="" with="" the="" word="" mother,="" andl="" bellpvo="" there="" is="" no.langu'age="" in="" all="" wido="" extension="" ,="" of="" human="" ideas,="" adequato="" to="" express="" finer="" feelingsiofour="" natures,="" which,well,="" up="" our="" bpsoma="" when="" simply,="" thinking.="" ;of.mother.="" ,tp="" her.avp="" trace="" being—itp="" her="" wp4,="" owe="" ou.="" exist-="" ence,="" and="" whatever="" pleasure,="" .or="" happi-="" noss="" .yfo.="" enjoy="" life..="" there,="" are,="" iew,yhp="" do="" riot="" fondly="" treasure="" reyery="" memento.-p-="" e'very="" association="" a="" mother;="" thqchai="" jn="" v)ilch="" she="" was="" accustomed="" tqs.t="" ls.hallowed="" qur="" affections,="" fiiqrinp="" from="" wnichsho="" drank,="" ring,she="" worp,.a="" tress="" clip="" silver="" hair,="" her'place="" at="" tablbor'jlre-="" side,="" a8="" weli="" a3="" every="" thing="" which="" phe="" has="" handled="" or="" touched,="" are="" held="" sacred="" arid="" stir"="" within="" innermost="" hearts="" deep-="" 'est="" most="" sublime="" 8eritimerits="" out'ria-="" tnres.="" td="" those="" who="" to-day="" favored="" with'="" ever-:watchful="" care="" kindly="" ex-="" pressions="" mothers="" 16vjc,="" fail="" ap-="" preciate="" the'same;="" t="" would="" fain="" shb'w="" them="" another="" scene.'="" yoriflrid="" your'every="" 'want="" supplied="" by="" assiduity="" one="" !nvho="" :="" enters="" 'ripon="" labors—not="" reluctantly,="" grudgingly—but="" trpleasurawo="" anx-="" iousness="" that="" leads="" you="" feel="" deserving="" of,="" aud="" right="" entitled="" .-avail="" this="" indescribable="" and.="" affectionate="" attention.="" have,="" met="" misfortune?:="" kind="" words="" of.="" mother="" will="" lift="" ydu:="" abovelit.="" have="" secret="" sorrows?="" mother’s="" sym-="" pathy="" .will="" lighten="" .them-,="" taro="" you,="" wear-="" ing.="" yourself="" away="" on="" a.="" .bed="" sipkness?="" softnnd="" gentle="" .hando="" a,="" mptheri="" jvill="" smooth="" youi;="" pillow,="" relievo="" your="" nffprlpgs="" administer="" pvery.="" wan’ri="" ..ier="" prpsencq="" slpk-room="" will,="" revive'="" render="" coucfi="" les="" intolerable.="" yqu="" unappreciative="" reeipieriof="" these="" ipnumeiibld="" klndriees="" through="" not="" haying;="" been,="" deprived,="" them...="" but'="" b="" change="" !comes,="" .="" over="" tlio="" houebbid.="" #="" th‘e="" 'motlier,="" worn,="" but.="" wary:(far="" never="" 'wearies="" edres="" life)="" begins="" fall="" and,="" though="" ribt="" willirig‘!="" 'to="" a.c-="" knowlbdgo="" it,="" strength="" gradudlly‘jbut="" siirely="" departing.1="" ch'eeririg,'nothing="" voice="" changed—the="" rosy-="" tirit="" has<faued="" cheek-her="" elastic="" tep="" 'wiiose="" echo="" wa&="" wont="" gladden="" evbry="" ‘heart,-is="" now="" slow="" measured="" tread,="" and-ina="" few="" short="" weeks,="" for="" whom="" worn="" life="" away,="" summoned="" around="" couch="" experisncculhe="" heart-rending="" anguish="" witnessing="" last="" fond,="" tender="" look="" whose="" mem'ory="" be="" cher-="" ished="" while="" consciousness="" endures,="" hear="" from,="" thosepale,="" ton'd="" lip="" ’a="" io'tier’s="" earnest1="" but="" almost="" inaudible'="" prayctfnl="" breathings="" heaven’s="" shibld="" guide,="" pomfortihqr,="" sopn="" jorpbaned="" darlings.="" werq="" lt="" fhat="" .the="" great="" crea-="" t%dn="" his="" wisdom.arid="" gpodness="" has.="" sq’yq'r-="" dained.in="" organization="" being,="" ;="" that-whqn="" brought'cq="" .to="" fiicq="" hvitfi="" pllth,="" sensitiveness="" "deserts="" ;nsl(arid,wd'.vo="" involuntarily="" thrown="" info="" r="" state="" ‘="" ofnaui-="" tion="" ip,="" wriaro="" deprived="" pf,thosesen-="" -sitivo="" attributes="" enable="" os="" to'realize="" i="" suffering,="" fewwpuld="" able.="" to.="" piss="" souhharrpwing="" ordeal.="" ...="" 1="" ';'fa'ffcr="" bold="" clbds-="" ‘th'umped'upon="" cofilnrid<tho‘littlp="" mounth-has="" been="" picply.plopcdjiandv.thp="" rustic="" board="" -with="" slmp.lol.nspnpfion,="" ha="" bpep.="" placedto="" thp="" ever,to="" bp.="" hallowed="" spot,="" tfiq="" heat-sqbr="" bing="" prpfians.="" )ve,qdiway="" their="" onco="" happy="" hearth-ptpne—but="" now,="" night="" sefs="" .in,="" all;="" oil.fesdlpmri="" sad—there="" ri="" vacancyjqo.="" fqrn="" can="" fill—d="" weird="" loneliness="" no="" voice,="" no‘music="" can'1="" pnilyln.="" ’tis="" fit-="" ting="" it="" should="" so.="" or-="" deld="" 'we="" arie'borri="" rihcw;="" holier,a’calrner,="" ariddlttiiorb="" rcflectivo'life.="" thriough="" wb'aroleddtb'-reficcttipori="" importance="" well="" -ordered="" life.="" througlr'lhlssw6="" ore="" taright="" to-foel="" thisfshorf="" span="" .ox="" istanco="" hero,="" only.,="" preparatory="" thoso="" who.pnduro="" faithfulness,.="" tofcmenter="" upon="" thereat="" future,="" we="" snail="" again="" meet="" thd'="" forid="" embrace="" wife,="" kindred="" friends,="" toiundorgp="" the.sad="" separation="" mortality,="" it.-#="" .1<'="" .m.'ji'snertoxi="" payson;'feb!="" 71h?="" 1870!:m,="" !'="" ’="" f'="" '="" h="" o="" ir.-i="" !="" :n<="" m-="" !<:="">guage expresses so much; or combines so
many tender, affectionate, sublime, soul-
stirring sentiments as this one word WO-
MAN.
	All the sublimity and divinity of our na-
tures are called into action when informed
that the new-born babe is a girl a future
woman. We follow her, in our imagina-
tion through the diversified scenes of femi-
nine life. We see her as the prattling, inno-
cent, trusting little sister, manifesting,
even in infancy, maternal affection and
tenderness towards her tiny dolls, and
gradually developing, while yet a child,
those sublime traits which characterize her
sex through life. If there exists in this
wide world, a soul so dead to humanity, as
not to be revivified, exhilarated and inspir-
ed by the tender associations of, even the
thought of a little girl, then join me, I pray
you, in the commiseration of that being.
	We see her sylph-like form, as she
blithely wends her way to school intent up-
on preparing herself for future usefulness—
yet manifesting the miraculous combina-
tion of her mortal and angelic nature in
pausing to admire whatever is beautiful,
and to select the choicest flowers by the
way-side with which to adorn the school-
room that it may be rendered more agreea-
ble to herself and to her school-mates; her
true nature manifesting itself in an effort
to comfort and cheer all with whom she
may come in contact.
	Next we see her blooming into maiden-
hood, the blush of the rose and the timid-
ity of the lily suffuse her cheek; still the
same confiding, cheering, solacing and af-
fectionate traits of character are displayed
in all her movements. We find her ever on
the alert to succor the needy, nurse the af-
flicted, comfort the miserable, and aid in
the various avocations of life. This is the
critical period of her existance—her trust-
ing nature leading her to confide in human-
ity she too often becomes the victim of
misplaced confidence, and when it is too
late, learns, to her sorrow, that all men can-
not be trusted.
	A word here for the consummate despic-
able wretch whose worse than bestial pro-
clivities leads him to betray the unwary
trustings of a maiden's heart. Let the an-
athemas and indignation of the upright
fall sorely, scathingly and effectually upon
his traitorous head.	Later, we see her kneeling at the altar
and assuming the responsibilities of wife-
hood. As a wife she is the guiding star—
the light and life of every home; for with-
out her there is no home. But with her by
the fireside, the beating storms may roar,
and bleak winds may howl and pile high
(in fantastic forms) the snow-flakes around
the cabin door, and yet there is comfort and
cheer within where the wife presides at
the family hearth-stone. To those who fail
to appreciate the tender associations of a
wife, allow me to introduce a man, who, at
the close of the day, weary and worn by
labor, is plodding his way toward his hum-
ble domicile. His limbs are weary, but his
heart is light, for he knows that a genuine
welcome awaits his arrival.

	For there's a bright light through the window,
		There is cheer and comfort within,
	As well as a heart he's akin to
		And a love restraining from sin;
	And he feels, though weary, delighted
		To know there is one on the earth,
	Whose soul with his is united
		In an union of infinite worth.
	As years roll around new faces appear,
		To gladden the pathway of life,

[Column 2]
	And fondly we cling to the loved ones so near—
		Our treasures, our children our wife.
	But, Oh! dark, sad and gloomy is all,
		When homeward the weary must plod
	And find no glad welcome, no light in the hall,
		When the loved one lies cold 'neath the sod.

	But it is as a mother that woman shines
in her brightest radiance. 'Tis here that
all her faculties are brought into requisi-
tion, and all the acquisitions of her former
experience are developed in a larger and
more extended form. There is an inex-
pressible feeling connected with the word
MOTHER, and I believe there is no language
in all the wide extension of human ideas,
adequate to express the finer feelings of our
natures, which well up in our bosoms when
simply thinking of mother. To her we
trace our being—to her we owe our exist-
ence, and whatever of pleasure or happi-
ness we enjoy in life. There are few who
do not fondly treasure every memento—
every association of a mother; the chair in
which she was accustomed to sit is hallowed
in our affections, the cup from which she
drank, the ring she wore, a tress from the
silver hair, her place at the table or fire-
side, as well as every thing which she has
[-]andled or touched, are held sacred, and
stir within our innermost hearts the deep-
est and most sublime sentiments of our na-
t[-]res. To those who are to-day favored
with the ever-watchful care and kindly ex-
pressions of a mother's love, and fail to ap-
preciate the same; I would fain show themanother scene. To-day you find your every
want supplied by the assiduity of one who
enters upon these labors—not reluctantly,
or grudgingly—but with a pleasurable anx-
iousness that leads you to feel that you are
deserving of, and by right entitled to all
this indescribable and affectionate attention.
Have you met with misfortune? The kind
words of a mother will lift you above it.
Have you secret sorrows? A mother's sym-
pathy will lighten them. Are you wear-
ing yourself away on a bed of sickness?
The soft and gentle hand of a mother will
smooth your pillow, relieve your sufferings
and administer to your every want. Her
presence in the sick-room will revive you
and render your couch less intolerable.
You are the unappreciative recipient of
these innumerable kindnesses through not
having been deprived of them. But a
change comes over the household. The
mother, worn, but not weary (for she never
wearies with the cares of life) begins to
fa[-]l and, though she is not willing to ac-
knowledge it, her strength is gradually but
surely departing. Her cheering, soothing
voice is changed—the rosy tint has faded
from her cheek—her elastic step, whose
echo was wont to gladden every heart, is
now a slow and measured tread, and in a
few short weeks, those for whom she has
worn her life away, are summoned around
the couch to experience the heart-rending
anguish of witnessing the last fond, tender
look of one whose memory will be cher-
ished while consciousness endures, and to
hear from those pale, fond lips, a MOTHER'S
earnest but almost inaudible prayerful
breathings for Heaven's care to shield,
guide and comfort her, soon to be orphaned
darlings. Were it not that the Great Crea-
tor in His wisdom and goodness has so or-
dained in the organization of our being,
that when brought face to face with death,
our sensitiveness deserts us, and we are
involuntarily thrown into a state of inani-
tion in which we are deprived of those sen-
sitive attributes which enable us to realize
suffering, few would be able to pass this
soul-harrowing ordeal.
	After the cold clods have thumped upon

[Column 3]
the coffin and the little mound has been
nicely sloped, and the rustic board with
simple inscription has been placed to mark
the ever to be hallowed spot, the heart-sob-
bing orphans wend their way to their once
happy hearth-stone—but now, when night
sets in, all, all is solemn and sad—there is a
vacancy no form can fill—a weird loneliness
no voice, no music can enliven. 'Tis fit-
ting that it should be so. Through this or-
deal we are born anew, to a holier, a calmer,
and a more reflective life. Through this or-
deal we are bron anew, to a holier, a calmer,
and a more reflective life. Through this
we are led to reflect upon the importance
of a well ordered life. Through this we
are taught to feel that this short span of ex-
istance here, is only proparatory for those
who endure in faithfulness, to enter upon
the great Future, in which we shall again
meet the fond embrace of mother, wife,
kindred and friends, no more to undergo
the sad separation of mortality.
						M. J. SHELTON.
	Payson, Feb. 7th, 1876.


SOCIETY.

	How can we express our ideas of a noble
woman's influence in society, or a good
mother's influence in the family circle? It
must prevail over the minds and hearts of
all those with whom she is associated.
What is it that first caused that inspiration
of goodness and greatness in men, which
we often read about, and who live to-day?
Almost invariably it was the great and good
influence of their mothers. A good wo-
man's influence in society, is greatly needed,
whether truly appreciated or not. Her val-
ue at many times is very much under esti-
mated, yet in some instances highly appre-
ciated.
	Our Woman's Cause, as we term it, is a
just one, our object is a noble one, and we
must seek to aspire to that laudable ambi-
tion for which we have started; and re-
member, where there's a will there's a way,
we have every encouragement to go on and
progress and improve. There is great space
for improvement, not only socially and re-
ligiously, but in our daily life; there are
none so good or great but can find room for
improvement; "Yet judge not that ye be
not judged," but may our great aim and ob-
ject in life be something that is worth all
our time and attention, and when we have
gained that great blessing, I think we will
be amply rewarded for our sacrifices as we
call them here below. And we will then be
prepared to enjoy the SOCIETY of our Fath-
er in heaven, which I hope will be our hap-
py lot.
					E. CROMPTON.
	Am. Fork, March 29th, '76.


LAUGH AND GROW FAT.

	The late Duchess of Devonshire grew at
forty very stout, like many other English
women, yet she retained her beauty. "How
have you kept your complexion so pure, my
dear duchess?" asked one of her fellow-la-
dies-in-waiting at the court of Queen Vic-
toria. "By dressing at ease and keeping
my temper," said the handsome duchess.
In France, where women have a natural
taste for what is becoming in dress, a
large woman wears ample draperies and
loose fitting garments, which make her look
and feel at her ease. No labored breathing,
no unusual redness, no fear of suffocation.
She is simply a large beautiful object, in-
stead of a pillow tied in the middle, with a
general air of asphyxia. Tight dressing
never makes a large woman look smaller.—
H[--]per's Bazar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	184


SUPERFLUOUS WOMEN.

	In a recent lecture Mrs. Livermore
made the following pointed and sensible
remarks:
	All through the land, in homes and out-
side of them, I find these women, unwed-
ded, in the vulgar parlance of every-day
speech called "old maids," with a shrug of
the shoulder, and a slight dash of scorn, in
the finer language of sociologists and essay-
ists denominated "superfluous women."
They have been brave enough to elect to
walk through life alone, when some man
has asked them in marriage whom they
could have loved; with white lips they
have said "no," while their hearts have
said "yes," because duty demanded of
them the sacrifice of their own happiness.
Their lives have been stepping-stones for
the advancement of younger sisters; they
have earned the money to carry brothers
through college into professions; like the
Caryatides of architecture, they stand in
their places and uphold the roof over a de-
pendent household; they invert the or-
der of nature and become mothers to the
aged, childish, parents, fathers and moth-
ers, whose failing feet they guide gently
down the hill of life, and whose withered
hands they by and by fold beneath the
daisies; they carry words of cheer and a
world of comfort to households invaded by
trouble, sickness or death. The dusty years
stretch far behind them; beauty and come-
liness drop away from them, and they grow
faded and careworn; they become nobodies
to the hurrying, rushing, bustling world,
and by-and-by they will slip out into the
gloom—the shadows will veil them forever
from earthly sight—the great surprise of
joyful greeting will welcome them, and
they will thrill to the embrace of the heav-
enly Bridegroom.
	Ah, Stewart, who from your $100,000,000
of earthly treasures have given $1,000,000
to the working women in a beautiful home!
Ah, Peabody, whose funds were princely!
Ah, Vanderbilt and Drew, who have put
millions into the endowments of schools
and colleges—these poor women have giv-
en and are giving more than ye all. For
out of your abundance ye have given but
little, and these "superfluous women" have
given their all—themselves, with their lov-
ing hearts, with their possibilities of hap-
piness, with their dreams of the future!
Ah, four-starred Grant and Sherman, not so
heroic was your march through the fearful,
bristling wilderness, and from Atlanta to
the sea, as is the lonely passage of life made
by many an unmated, woman, except as her
celibate life serves to point a jest, or add
cynical pleasantry to a story. Ye were
stimulated by the cheers and prayers of a
nation, while the gaze of the world fol-
lowed you. But the path of these women
was through the hot shot of ridicule and sa-
tire.
	Let us give to women such training,
physically, industrially, intellectually, and
spiritually, that we shame the word "su-
perfluous," out of the vocabulary, as de-
scriptive of women.  And this will help
men, and elevate them, quite as much as
any special work which might be done for
them, and thus collective humanity will be
benefitted, and a higher civilization be pro-
moted, for

	The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink
	Together, dwarfed or god-like, bond orfree.—Ex.


BAD lu[-]k is simply a man with his hands
in his pockets and his pipe in his mouth,
looking on to see how it will come out.


NO JUSTICE FOR WOMEN.

	Recently an officer presented himself and
a prisoner before Justice Wandell, at the
Yorkville Police Court, 'Well, Mary, are
you here again?' queried the magistrate.
'Yes,' replied Mary. 'You see I hadn't
been out for more than forty minutes when
this fellow gobbled me up.' 'Well, Mary,
I think I'll have to send you ——' said the
Justice. 'Now, look here Judge,' inter-
rupted Mary, 'am I drunk now?,' 'No,' re-
plied Justice Wandell; 'You don't seem to
be; but I'll send you to the Island for three
months this time.'" In this unjust and
positively illegal way are women treated
very generally by police justices. There
was no charge sustained against this wo-
man, yet she was sent to Blackwell's Island
for three months. In the daily Tombs po-
lice reports, it is noticeable that where men
and women are brought up for the same of-
fence, drunk[-]ness, while the men are often
let off with a reproof or mild threat, the wo-
men are almost invariably punished. A late
number of a New York daily, in its police
column, contained six arrests for drunken-
ness. Three of the culprits were men, and
three women. Every one of the men were
let off, and every one of the women were
fined or imprisoned, although the circum-
stances were precisely similar.—Ex.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cure for Croup.—A piece of lard as big as a
butternut, rubbed up with sugar; divided into
three parts and given at intervals of 20 minutes.—
B. C.
	Cure for Toothache.—Take a lump of lime as
large as a hickory nut, put it in a quart bottle of
water, and rinse the mouth with it frequently,—B.
C.
	For Sore Eyes.—Take two tablespoonfuls hon-
ey, teaspoonful salt, tincture of Balsam buds one
tablespoonful, teaspoonful gum pine. Make a paste
and put it over the eyes. A thin cloth to go on
the eyes first.—A Farmer's wife.
	To Cure White Swelling or-Scrofula.—Scrape
common [-]lder bark, bitter sweet mullen leaves—
equal parts. Boil together in a little water; then
put in a little golden seal. Stew all in fresh but-
ter and mutton tallow, equal parts, until well done.
Then strain and put back in pot, and put in bees-
wax and pine tar. Stew them all together. For
use, spread on a cloth and apply as a poultice.
	The Transfusion of Blood.—A Phila. corres-
pondent writes:—"I saw lately a letter written by
Charles Reade to a young lady medical student of
this city. She had written to him inquiring about
the case of transfusion of blood mentioned in his
novel, 'Griffith Gaunt.' He replied that the in-
stance was a real one, and gave the particulars of
the occurrence, also citing several authorities that
mentioned similar cases. He said that when
'Griffith Gaunt' first appeared he was assailed by
many members of the medical profession who did
not believe in the transfusion of blood, and accused
him of perverting the facts of science in his desire
to be sensational. He concluded by saying that
in defending his position he had become deeply in-
terested in the study of medicine, and desired his
correspondent, with whose professional aspirations
he had much sympathy, to keep him posted regard-
ing her researches on this particular subject, and
her general progress and success in her profession."
—Ex.
	Too Much Medicine.—Some one, writing on the
excessive use of medicine and the recuperating
power of Nature, says:—It would be utterly im-
possible to tell how many constitutions have been
impaired, how many digestions ruined, how many
complexions spoiled; and how many purses emptied,


through medicine. What is that you say—that a
stitch in time saves nine, and that the right medi-
cine quickly taken averts danger? Very likely.
I quite believe that. But in ninety-nine cases out
of a hundred, where is the danger? And what is the
emergency of the case? Medicine is often the
precursor of after misery; and the poor constitu-
tion has to pay dearly for its medicinal fillip. The
wiser philosophy of the present day is gradually
delivering us from these potent perils. Nature has
a self-righting power within her; there is a kind
of vis-medicatrix in the physical frame. Treat
the body kindly; let as much pure air as possible
get to the lungs, and as much fresh water as possi-
ble be applied to the flesh, and as much healthy
exercise as duty permits be given to the muscles,
and early rising as circumstances allow be afforded
for the recruitment of the brain, and then medi-
cine will be a very avoidable affair.—Ex.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Ginger Bread.—A good receipt for ginger bread:
—one pint molasses, one half cup butter, one-half
cup sour milk, two teaspoonf[-]ls ginger, one of
soda, two eggs, four cups flour.—F. W.
	Cheap Curtains.—One of the most agreeable
materials for curtaining windows is coarse un-
bleached cotton. The irregularity of the thread
and the roughness of the surface gives its soft folds
much the charm of a Russia crash, and its hue
warms the light of cool, North windows almost to
the glow of sunshine.—Housekeeper.
	Bean Porridge.—When the beans are skimmed
from the kettle to be put baking, leave a teacupful
or more of the beans in the kettle. Set the kettle
on the top of the stove where the beans will slowly
cook fine. Then season the broth with sufficient
salt, pepper and butter, to make it relish, and with
good Graham bread, it makes a soup fit for a king
or a dyspeptic.
	To Cook Oatmeal, Etc.—In cooking oatmeal,
hominy, wheaten grits, cracked wheat, or any of
those nice breakfast dishes, cook it in a covered
tin dish set in a kettle of boiling water; in this
manner there is no danger of scorching. Corn-
starch pudding, sca-moss, farina, and all other ar-
ticles mixed with milk, can be cooked in the sameway.
	Meat and Rusk Puddings.—Chop any kind of
cold meat with salt pork or ham, season it well
with butter, pepper and salt, and add two or three
beaten eggs. Then make alternate layers of wet
rusk crumbs, with milk, or cold boiled hominy or
rice, and bake half or three quarters of an hour.
Let the upper layer be crumbs, and cover with a
plate while baking, and when nearly done take it
off to brown the top.


TEACH CHILDREN TO SPEAK THE TRUTH.
—Children should be taught to speak the
truth, to hate a lie, and to be honest. It is
unsafe to leave any class of children un-
taught. It is not for the interest and wel-
fare of the community to do so. It is from
the ignorant and the vicious that the pau-
per and criminal element chiefly comes.
That is the burden which others are chiefly
taxed to support. It is chiefly from those
who have no healthful home training, no
church, no family altar, no Sabbath school.
There are many who get no correct notions
of right and wrong save what they get in
school. At home and in the street they
learn to lie, to steal, to fight, to get drunk,
to use vile language. There, by precept
and example they get a knowledge of evil.
It is more the duty of society to provide for
the right education and proper training of
all the children than it is to support the
paupers and take care of the criminals.
Prevention is better than cure.—Ex.


185		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITTLE LETTERS.

		GOSHEN, UTAH, March 25, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am a member of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association, and it is improv-
ing very fast. I am not fourteen years old
yet, but I think that these Associations are
the best things that was ever thought of
for the young girls and boys, and the young
people here take great interest in sustain-
ing them.
	I return my older sisters many thanks for
encouraging us. If we would obey those
who are placed over us we would become
useful and honorable women and pleasing
before God. I know I could be far better
than I am, and I mean to try, and as we
grow up our minds will become more
established. Many young people run the
streets and go to all the dances &c., and that
is all they think about, but we will try to
reform from all these things and do better
now. We "the young girls" ought to be the
Deseret humming-bee and work with one
accord to assist the Prophet of the Lord.
	Let us strive with all our might to be
pleasing in the sight of heaven.
		Yours truly,
				MARY ANN ROBERTS.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE CO. Apr. 8th, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We as a band of little girls in Wellsville
are organized into a Bible Society, and to let
you know that we are awake to our duties,
we thought, in our weak way, that we
would give you a synopsis of our doings.
	On the 21st of March we met for the pur-
pose of organizing our class at the residence
of Sister Ellen Whiton, President of our
Relief Society, and under her jurisdiction we
collectively nominated a President, four
Counselors, Secretary and Treasurer. We
hope through our united efforts to do much
good, and in place of spending our leisure
time in idleness, we wish to try to make
ourselves useful, and learn to fill our places
in life to the best of our abilities.
	I will add no more at present, but close
by saying we love to read the EXPONENT
and wish it every success.
	The officers send their kind regards.
					SARAH A. BROWN.


MISCELLANEOUS.

MARRIAGE.—In her evasive answer to the
Commons, in her reply to their petition to
her to marry, Queen Elizabeth employed an
energetic word, "Were I to tell you that I
do not mean to marry, I might say less than
I intend; and were I to tell you that I do
mean to marry, I might say more than is
proper for you to know, and therefore I give
you an answer, ANSWERLESS!"

	A GOOD story is told of a clergyman in
a Massachusetts town who forgot his notes
on a Sabbath morning, and as it was too late
to send for them, he said to his audience,
by way of apology, that this morning he
should have to depend upon the Lord for
what he might say, but that in the after-
noon he would come better prepared!

	RECENTLY an actor was married in Paris
whose name was M. Jaureguisilesbessadiere;
this reminds one of the princess who mar-
ried a Hungarian General, with a fright-
fully unpronounceable name; and when she
went out shopping she used to say in giving
her address, "I was (nee) born Princess of
Leon, but my married name I never could
learn it. Ask my servant he will tell you
what it is.


WE are apt to think this a pretty bad age
in which we live, but the age before it was
not altogether lovely. On the 8th of Octo-
ber, 1776, John Adams wrote to his wife in
Philadelphia: "The spirit of venality you
mention is the most dreadful and alarming
enemy America has to oppose. It is as ra-
pacious and insatiable as the grave. This
predominant avarice will ruin America, if
she is ever ruined. If God does not inter-
fere by His grace to control this universal
idolatry, to the mammon of unrighteousness,
we shall be given up to the chastisements
of His judgements. I am ashamed of the
age I live in."
	MR. Hamerton, in the Portfolio for March,
thus defines a lady: A lady is a woman who
clearly understands, and consistently practi-
ces, the refinements of a highly-civilized
existence; and the most real distinction be-
tween a lady and a woman who is not a
lady is, that one is more civilized than the
other, and more determined to preserve the
habits of high civilization, both in her per-
son and in those over whom she has au-
thority. These habits are not simply habits
of expense; it is cheaper to remain sober
than to get drunk, ann yet it is more lady-
like to be sober. It does not cost more
money to speak good English than bad, or
to be gentle than rude; yet a lady always,
from preference, speaks correctly and has
gentle manners.


[Column 1]
	THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.	
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

Now Receiving, at
TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments,  Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, NOtions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. l4th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
			Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
33, MAIN STREET,

[Column 2]
MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY’S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies' attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price. 	17, East Temple street.
		TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLAS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TO THE LADIES!

TAYLOR & CUTLER,
Have received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we
are selling very cheap.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done, Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take  payment. CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION 
or
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEARLER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 Frist South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
