EQUALITY OF SEX.

	All mankind are the children of our Hea-
venly Father. One sex cannot say to the other,
"He is not your Father; He does not love you
as much as us." God has prepared a way
whereby all His offspring can return to His
presence, by obedience to the laws He has laid
down.
	Men and women are equal in their sphere.
One cannot get along without the other; neither
can one say to the other "We have no need of
you." "Man is not without the woman, nor the
woman without the man in the Lord."
	Men have no more right to tyrannize over
their wives, than wives have to tyrannize or
domineer over their husbands. There is no
need for bossing on either side, if each will do
his or her duty, and not intefere with the
rights of the other.
	The man stands at the head of the family to
govern in righteousness, in love and kindness.
His position does not give him the right to exer-
cise unrighteous dominion over his family. The
wife is under no obligation to honor or obey her
husband if he does not obey the laws of God.
Woman's sphere of usefulness is as great, and
her influence as widely felt as man's. She was
placed upon the earth with man to be his com-
panion, his helpmate and his equal. "She
was not taken from his feet to be trampled upon
by him, nor from his head to rule over him,
but from his side to be equal with him; near his
heart to be loved and cherished by him."
	Women have rights that should be respected,
but we need not be surprised if they are not
respected by all the "lords of creation" when
the ladies of creation are so careless and iudiffer-
ent about their rights and privileges. If
women had more respect for themselves, under-
stood and maintained their rights, they would
be entitled to more respect and would receive
it. Women are ignorant of their rights and
privileges. Many do not think anything about
the matter, and others are affraid to express
their views for fear of ridicule, and a third
class talk to suit the occasion. Such people
cannot be relied upon; you never know how to
understand them.


Few women have the courage to stand by
their convictions, because they are sneered at
and ridiculed by those who should know better-
Ridicule and sneers do not make their cause
less right, but it lessens those who sneer in the
eyes of those who desire to see equal rights and
fair play to all. Men who speak disrespectfully
of women lower themselves very much in our
estimation. The greatest and best men who
ever lived had women for their mothers.
Mothers mold the characters of the children.
They should mold their sons to respect women
and give them their rights. Not until women
take this course will they be respected and
recognized as the equal of men.
		M. E. TEASDALE.
	Nephi, March 24th, 1887.


[Column 1]

