M. J. TANNER.

Continued.
	Monday, April 27, 1885. We went over to
New York to-day and called at the hotel to see
Bro. Hart. We visited several places of inter-
est, among which were some large stores. We
saw so many beautiful things that I quite
longed for a full purse or an unlimited bank
account. We called at the A. T. Stewart
building; the present proprietors are Denning
& Co. It is a magnificent building of iron
and marble, and covers, we are told, two and a
half acres of ground. It is eight stories high,
and has not a partition wall on the whole
building. All the floors are supported by iron
pillars.  In the center is a circular dome, reach-
ing to the roof, which is covered with glass and
helps to light the building. At every floor
is a railing of molding or carving, and all is
white. The building covers an entire block,
the front entrance being on Broadway. It is
lighted by windows on all sides, and there are
several doors to enter by. The building is
unique, and we are told there are no other
stores in New York just like it. We did not
go all through, as they were preparing to close,
so I cannot give a fuller description. The
counters, seats and goods were being draped to
keep off the dust. We saw costly ornaments
and beautiful statuary, and laces which, no
doubt, bore fabulous prices. We were informed
that they would send goods at retail prices to
any address in the United States free of express.
It was getting late and we took a street car to
the ferry. After crossing on the boat we took
another car, which brought us home. Here
we found a cousin waiting to see us, Miss Alice
Newman of Red Bank, N. J. We were pleased
to meet, and soon became sociable, running a
talking match until about twelve o'clock. We
talked of Utah, of Mormonism, of polygamy
in fact of about everything that could be talked,
on in that length of time. We quoted Scrip-
ture, history and philosophy, and wound up
with a desire for a better acquaintance, and an
invitation to visit her at Red Bank. I also
made out quite a list of genealogies.
	Tuesday, April 28th. Cousin Alice went
home this morning, promising to come again
before I leave. Mrs. K. is very sick, and I
feel quite out of sorts. So much talking and
sight-seeing are somewhat exhaustive. Towards
night it begins storming, and storms hard all
night.

[Column 2]

	Friday, May 1st, 1885. It rains this morn-
ing, but I have promised to meet Bro. Henry
to-day, and he will meet me in Philadelphia.
My cousin's son, Eddie Kimball, escorts me to
Jersey City, and puts me safely on the car. I
take my bearings and mark the route, for I am
going to be very brave and come back alone.
As I travel on out into the great world alone I
feel a little nervous, but I trust to Providence
and let the future take care of itself. I enjoy
myself looking at the country, and finally find
myself at the waiting room at Philadelphia
ready to be called for.
	I look around and see a good many people
sitting or walking about, and I wonder if they
all know where they are going, or if some of
them are waiting to be called for, and if every-
body knows I am a stranger and a little green.
I draw myself up and try to put on a look of
importance, just as though waiting at depots
was an every day occurrence. Presently I see
an elderly gentleman walking about as though
he was looking for somebody. As he passes
me I look for his right hand. He holds the
proverbial blue cotton umbrella in it, and I see
that the thumb is gone; I know he lost it in the
civil war. I look at him and he looks at me.
I venture to ask if he is looking for some one.
He assures me he is. I tell him my name is
Tanner; that is his name. I follow him out,
he takes my satchel and we board a street car,
the rain still falling. After a few minutes ride
we stop and enter a restaurant. Here I am
introduced to the proprietor and his wife, who
are some sort of relations. We take dinner,
and as it is still over two hours before the boat
leaves we wait there, for it rains too hard for
us to see anything of the city.
	Finally we start out again, he with my
satchel in one hand and the umbrella in the
other, I holding to his arm and trying to take
care of my dress. After a short walk, during
which I see very little but people and houses,
we are on board the steamer, "Jersey Blue,"
floating down the broad waters of the Deleware
River.
	Brother Henry tries to show me all points
of interest, but the weather is too cloudy and
foggy to see things clearly at a distance. A
foreign vessel passes us drawn by a "tug." It
carries the flag of the Hawaiian Marchant with
the U. S. colors floating in front. There are
a great many people on deck. I have never
seen a ship before, and it amuses me to see the
great big boat moving lazily along after the
saucy little boat called a "tug," which went
puff, puff, as if swelling with an overdue sense
of its importance. Here a noted battle was
fought in the Revolutionary War, and there
was another point of interest. I try to stand
out under the awning where I can see better,
but it is so cold I am glad to go in the cabin
and look through the windows.
	After a ride of twelve miles, we land at Bil-
lingsport.  It has nearly stopped raining, and
we walk up to the house, about half a mile.
It is a very pleasant road. bordered with cedar
trees, with fields on each side, and an occasional
house. We are greeted with a warm welcome
by his wife and daughters, two fat dogs and
five spotted cats. They hasten to get us some
supper, and as I am very tired I retire early.
	Paulsboro, Saturday, May 2nd 1885. It is
not raining, but is cold and windy. We have
fresh shad and sweet potatoes for breakfast,
and eat off a table which served the officers in
the Revolutianary War. It is a black walnut


[Column 1]

table, and the shad and sweet potatoes are ex-
cellent. I am shown a corner cupboard and
some china and silver ware which, I am assured,
are over a hundred years old, and did service
before the revolution. Brother Henry knew
something of Mormonism, having been a mem-
ber of the Church through Kirtland, Missouri
and Nauvoo. He went east from Iowa and
staid there, married and settled in New Jersey.
He served in the civil war and lost his thumb
—a small member to lose, but serious in its
effects, as it unfits him for such employment as
he depended on for a living. I am not such a
curiosity to them, but wherever I am intro-
duced there is a flutter of excitement. Henry
took us for a ride this evening to Paulsboro,
which is their post office address, they living a
little way out of the town.
	Sunday, May 3rd. Went to-day for a visit
to "Cousin Jesse Brown's." It is six miles
through a beautiful country. We spent a
pleasant day.  "Cousin Jesse" and his wife—
he is a cousin of Henry's wife—came to Utah
thirteen years ago to visit her sisters, Mrs.
Whipple and Mrs. Snyder. They called on
me at the time, and I told them I had come to
return their visit. They have a beautiful
home, on a farm, and showed us many places
of interest; among other things was a sassafras
tree, which stood before the Revolution, and
was supposed to be two hundred years old. We
returned by a different road, which gave us
quite an interesting view of the country.
Everything is green and pleasant. The coun-
try is level, and the hamlets and farm houses
are so pleasant, speaking, in many places, of
wealth and refinement. We stopped at the
Eggleton Cemetery, one of the loveliest resting
places for the dead that I have ever seen. I
could but contrast it with some of our own
cemeteries, or more properly called "grave-
yards." Of course much of the desolate ap-
pearance of ours is caused by lack of rain.
We gathered a few pieces of evergreen as
souvenirs, and came away from the city of the
dead, thinking how much more pleasant it was
than some of the houses of the living.
	Monday, the 4th. I go in the woods this
morning to gather wintergreen. The berries
are gone, but we pick the leaves and have a
pleasant walk. It takes me back to my child-
hood to ramble in the woods. I spend a pleas-
ant day in visiting, and in the evening Henry
takes me to the lighthouse; we go up in the
tower where the lamp is and see the lens,
which, we are told, cost $500. There are three
lighthouses near here; they are called range
lights, and protect navigation on the river.
The lights look in the distance like balls of fire
in the darkness. The river is dotted here and
there with lights from the little fishing boats.
The lighthouse keeper is a Mr. Preston. He
was wounded in the civil war, and, after pass-
ing through untold suffering in the hospital,
came out crippled for life in one leg and foot.
	Tuesday, May 5th. We go to Philadelphia
to-day. We go up on the boat and take a car
for Fairmount Park. The main buildings of
the Centennial Exhibition are removed, and
the ground is being prepared for lawns or flower
gardens. The smell of the compost is any-
thing but pleasant. We enter Memorial Hall
and look through the museum. As the clock
struck twelve two figures of men stepped out
and played sweet music; when it ceased striking
they glided back and the door closed after
them. We are tired and hungry, and go to a
restaurant and call for a lunch of bread and
butter and a cup of tea, for which we pay ten
cents. Being rested and refreshed, we visit
Horticultural Hall. These are the only build-
ings left standing of the grand Exposition.
The city considered it too expensive to keep
them up, and they have been sold or suitably
disposed of. Entering the hall the air is very
warm; it is not oppressive, but gives us a kind

[Column 2]

of Turkish bath, starting the perspiration at
every pore. Here are rare trees and plants
from every part of the tropical world. My
pen cannot describe the scene, but it is deeply
impressed on my mind. We do not see many
flowers; I suppose they are not in season. We
stand under palms, one leaf of which covers
us, and if broken off, would no doubt, be more
than we could lift. Here are bamboo trees
reaching to the roof; I do not know how high
it is, but it is very high. Here are india rub-
ber trees, century plants, and ferns in endless
variety. We get so warm we are afraid to go
out in the wind. We wrap our shawls around
us and sit down in the sun to rest. We try to
catch a car to take us to Fairmount Water
Works; we get wrongly directed, and are so
tired we give it up and go to the city. Car
fare here is six and eight cents. We stop at
Wannamakers. It is an immense store and
seems to comprise every department of trade.
We visit Independence Hall, a life insurance
building and several other places of interest.
We pass a cemetery, where we see the tombs of
Benjamen Franklin and his wife, covered by
large granite slabs, lying flat, with inscriptions
on them. Here is a beautiful conservatory,
with grass next the sidewalk, where we can
look through and see such lovely flowers.
There is quite a little romance connected
with it. The owner, once a poor boy, was
passionately fond of flowers, and he felt it
so keenly that only the rich could enjoy
such things, that he said if ever he was rich
he would have flowers where poor people
could enjoy them. In course of time he
was gratified, and built his conservatory
where everyone could look in and see the
lovely flowers.
	We do not go back by the boat, but ferrry
across the river and take the train for Pauls-
boro. We change cars at Woodbury; it is
certainly the neatest little depot I ever saw,
laid out with lawns and flowerbeds. Here is
the residence of G. G. Green, the manufac-
turer of August Flower and Greenman Syrup.
He has a handsome residence, with grounds
beautifully laid out, the lawns nicely kept
and beds of tulips blooming here and there.
They contain several large buildings, where
the medicines are manufactured. A few
years ago he was a poor man, not fond of
work nor able to live without it. No one
thought him of any consequence. He com-
menced making patent medicines, and, presto,
change, here he is. It looks like a fairy tale.
Henry is waiting for us at Paulsboro with
the carriage, and we get home quite tired
out.


