EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is not often that we write to you of any-
thing that takes place in this part, and perhaps
we should still remain silent, but for an inci-
dent that happened here recently, small, indeed,
compared to the great events now taking place
in the earth, but of much interest to the few
concerned.
	The teachers of the Relief Society of the
Second Ward of Brigham City, desiring to
show their love and respect for our worthy
President, Sister Mary E. Snow, and wishing to
give her a little surprise, met for that purpose
at her residence on Friday afternoon, May 6th.
When she caught sight of us marching up to
the door in double file, heavily laden with large
baskets, well filled with the good things of this
life, and with our Stake President at the head,
she opened her eyes in surprise and exclaimed,
"Why did'nt you tell me?" However, she soon
made us feel quite at home, and such a time as
we had of hand-shaking, embracing, and such
expressions of love and kindly feeling one to-


wards another, as is seldom witnessed except
among the Latter-day Saints. The cloth was
soon laid and the table filled to its utmost ca-
pacity. When all were seated, Stake President
Harriet Snow, in earnest tones of gratitude in-
voked God's blessing on the food. After par-
taking of the sumptuous repast, accompanied
with chocolate and good homemade beer, and
repaired to the parlor, where a hymn was sung,
and speeches were made by Prest. H. Snow,
Amelia Knutesen, Coun. Mary Nichols, G. M.
Jeppsen, Sister B. Burt, Lucy A. Nichols, Ann
Boden and Ann J. Wixom, all expressive of
love and good wishes for the recipient of the
surprise, and thankfulness to God for all the
blessings we enjoy in this our mountain home.
Sister Snow, in appropriate remarks, thanked
the sisters for the honor conferred upon her,
and for their good will and confidence, and
Coun. Nancy A. Bigler made the closing speech,
who, bye the bye, was chief mover in the affair.
The hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a
prophet," was sung, and the closing prayer was
offered by Prest. Mary E. Snow.
	The occasion was a very delightful one, and
the poor and sick in the ward were not forgot-
ten.	Respectfully,
