OUR CHILDREN.

	Lawful wedlock or marriage was sanctified and
made holy by God for the purpose of increase, and
not merely for the gratification of the baser pas-
sions. The command to Adam and Eve was to
multiply and replenish the earth, and this, accord-
ing to the Book of Mormon, was “that they might
have joy.” What is true in regard to Adam and
Eve is true in regard to all their sons and daughters.
The original command remains in full force to-day,
having never been revoked. And of all the bless-
ings bestowed by heaven there is none that at all
compares with the blessing of posterity. It is the
grand key to the eternal lives about which we love
so much to talk.
	No greater calamity can befall a family than to
have its name blotted out for the want of a son to
perpetuate it. On the other hand, if no other
justifiable reason could be assigned for the practice
of polygamy, the giving to every pure and virtuous
woman an opportunity to fill the measure of her
creation would be justification enough; for every
pure woman is worthy a pure and virtuous hus-
band, and all attempts to deprive her of this privi-
lege are in violation of a true and correct principle.
When the law of God prevails there will be no
cause of complaint in this regard.
	Those who prate so much about one woman
only for one man, and quote in proof that Adam
had Eve as his only wife, know nothing of the
true history of Adam and Eve; of their mission to
this earth, and the peopling thereof; of the fall
and their redemption. Is this the only earth that
has been created and peopled, and is the mother
of this earth the only one that ever had or will
have such honor? This may be all that a narrow-
minded Christian monogamist can possibly con-
ceive, but we know better. Enoch said, “Millions
of earths like this would not be a beginning to the
number of thy creations, and thy curtains are
stretched out still.” Will not each earth then,
with its inhabitants, pass through similar ordeals
to the one we occupy, as pertaining to its crea-
tion, its peopling, its fall and its redemption?
Certainly, nothing could be more reasonable, and
in relation to the female progenitor of each one of
these countless creations, the words of the in-
spired poet might apply, uttered many years ago:

	"And what to Eve though in her mortal life
	She was the first, the tenth, or fiftieth wife:
	It mattered not to her, she proved her worth,
	And thus became the Goddess and the Queen of earth."

	But, woman-like, I am wandering from my
text.
	We find ourselves upon the earth, and sur-
rounded with offspring, the result of marriages
sanctified by God through sacred ordinances. Now
what is our duty in relation to these children God
has blessed us with? Mothers, look around you,
and see the changed conditions as compared with


the first years of our settlement in these valleys.
The proposed regenerators of the Mormon people
are here in full force; they have brought with
them characters of every grade, who have intro-
duced amongst us the follies and many of the
crimes of modern Babylon, making the labors of
the mother manifold in watching and guarding her
offspring against their evils, and it will require the
utmost vigilance on our part to preserve the purity
of our offspring. Our late President, Brigham
Young, in speaking upon the responsibilities of
mothers, uses the following forcible language (see
