IN YE OLDEN TIMES.

	Prior to the American Revolution every
colonial farm-house and every blacksmith's
shop was a manufactory. For everything was
literally manufactured—that is, made by hand.
The blacksmith hammered out axes, hoes, forks,
spades, ploughshares, scythes and nails. A
tailoress went from house to house to make up
the winter clothing, and was followed by the
shoemaker.
	The farmer prepared the leather from skins
which had lain in the vat for a year, and his
wife made ready the cloth. Spinning-wheels
buzzed from morning till night. Skeins of
woolen and linen yarn hung on the walls of
every house. Seated on the loom-seat, the best
woman of the family plied shuttle and treadles
—weaving blankets, sheets, table-cloths, towels, 
bed-curtains, window-curtains, flannels and
cloth for garments.
	Every woman in the household manufactured
something. The aged grandmother spun flax
with the little wheel; the youngest daughter
carded wool, and the oldest, if the men were
busy, hatcheled flax. It was hand-work that
did it, and every hand did what it could best
do.
	The women, whose "work was never done,"
not only carded, spun and wove, but they
milked the cows, made butter, bread and cheese,
soap and candles, cooked the food, did the
washing, and in harvest raked hay, pulled flax,
and dug potatoes.
	The neighbor, who happened in for an after-
noon's gossip, brought her work. The mother
patched or knitted, as she rested by the fireside,
or quartered apples for the children to "string"
and hang in the morning in festoons on the
sunny outside walls. All were busy—always
busy.—Selected.


Christine Nilsson is soon to be presented at
the Spanish court by Count Miranda, her hus-
band.
	Empress Elizabeth of Austria has rheuma-
tism, and will try the hot baths of Mehadia,
Hungary.
	An account is given in the Chicago papers,
apparently authentic, of a woman who recently
died in the city, leaving four living husbands
from whom she had not been divorced. We
shall have to call for some anti-Mormon legis-
lation for Chicago as well as Utah.—Ex.


