THE "MORMON" WOMAN'S PAPER.

	OUR readers are doubtless aware that the pres-
ent number closes the Fifteenth Volume of this
little paper. Sorry indeed we are that it is late,
but "it is never too late to mend," and we hope
that the next volume, now commencing, will be
more regular, more interesting and withal more
worthy of the patronage of the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. We do not expect the patronage
of the outside world to any great extent, as the
principles advocated herein are at variance with
the belief and practises of the people of the world
at large; yet we have sold and given away during
the last year to hundreds of tourists each one copy
or more of the "Mormon"woman's paper,and have
had the opportunity of conversing upon the prin-
ciples of the Gospel with tourists and travelers
almost every day.
	The paper has certainly been in many ways a
blessing to this people, and another avenue
through which the Gospel, to a certain extent, in
simplicity and in a humble manner may be pro-
claimed. In our experience in the Church we
have often heard sisters who were zealous for the
truth say, how glad they would be to have the
privilege accorded to them,which the Elders have
who are called to labor in the interests of the
Church abroad; this expression or similar ones
are often used. Every mother in Israel has a
noble mission to fill at home, of this the sisters
are fully aware, but there are possible yearnings
in the hearts of some women, and indeed there
may be special endowments and knowledge of the
truths of heaven given that may be imparted to
others, and to the world of mankind with good re-
sults. For instance it is often said in the world
"such a one was born a poet," or of another that
"she was born a teacher of her contemporaries,"
if that is the case, and history furnishes abundant
proof that it is so, why, may it not be so in the
Church of Latter-day Saints?
	Certainly through the colums of the woman's pa-
per. There is an opportunity offered for all those
who have these aspirations and desires to edify,
instruct, comfort, bless and teach those who may
read what has been, or may be written by them.
	The Sisters have, through their own paper a
grand opportunity for culture and development in
writing and publishing, upon moral, intellectual
and Gospel subjects, and it is a privilege that
should not be ignored. There are young women
who have talents and time at their disposal, who
might contribute largely to the current literature
of the day through the sources open to them; yet
we are sorry to say, many of them let the golden
opportunities pass by, wherein they might sew
broadcast some precious seed, that though small
perhaps in comparison, might bear excellent fruit,
and if no positive success ever attended it, there
is a great satisfaction in feeling one has done what
she could.
	There are missionaries abroad in different parts
of this land, and other lands, who have realized

[Column 2]

great good from the writings in the EXPONENT,
and are proud to acknowledge it. It finds its way
into many homes, where the sound of the Gospel
has never been heard, and it has been the humble
means of removing prejudice and correcting false
impressions, made by those who are ever on the
alert to injure the cause and the people who are
seeking to establish the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	The organizations of women have been greatly
promoted in their interests through the circulation
of this paper and indeed it is one of the helps in
the work of the Relief Society the Y. L. M,
I. A. and the Primary Associations. The meet-
ings and Conferences of these organizations
held in all the Stakes of Zion in America and
abroad find a place of record in its columns from
time to time and the workings of the several
branches of these great promoters of benevolence
and spiritual culture thus become better known.
	We hope and trust that the agents for the EX-
PONENT will not grow weary in well doing but
continue to labor diligently in the future as they
have in the past,and urge upon the sisters the need
of a paper of their own in which they may express
their sentiments upon all subjects of interest, and
advocate the principles of the Gospel they have
embraced and assist in advancement and progress
in that which will tend to the higher culture and
development of the daughters of Zion, and the
dissemination of the truth of heaven as revealed
in these last days through chosen men of God.


