EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE sincerely hope that all our patrons and
friends will excuse the unavoidable delay in issu-
ing this number of the EXPONENT; circumstances
entirely unlooked for have been the cause, and it
is a matter of great regret on our part that we were
not able to be prompt in the matter, but hope no
such painful occurrences will prevent its regularity
in the future. It is the intention during the present
year to make ample recompense for any inattention
in the past, which may have appeared to those un-
acquainted with facts, like neglect of an import-
ant duty, but we hope to be able to give to all in-
terested perfect satisfaction in the future.
	TO all the subscribers of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT we wish to say, that if they have not each
one received a copy of the Prophet's mother,
"Lucy Smith," know in the Church as MOTHER
SMITH, we would like to be informed to whom
and where to direct, as it has been the aim and in-
tention to supply each subscriber with one of these
pictures. Those living in and near Salt Lake City,
we have thought it would be much better if they
would call for them, to save rolling, as it has been
something of a labor to roll them up so as to pro-
tect them from injury in going through the mails.
We are very anxious that all should have a picture,
and it is considered, by those acquainted with the
venerable mother in Israel, a very good likeness.
	HELPFUL VISIONS is the significant title of a
new work recently issued from the Office of the
Juvenile Instructor, and is the fourteenth of the
Faith Promoting Series, designed for the youth of
Zion. The contents are first "A Terrible Or-
deal" in two chapters by Bishop O. F. Whitney
giving the thrilling experience and remarkable
manifestations of Elder David Patten Kimball,
and the testimony of his son Patten, and others,
substantiating the marvelous spiritual occurrences
therein recorded. The fulfillment of the predic-
tions made at that time should be a strong tes-
timony to all who read with the spirit and the un-
derstanding, The next in order is "Briant L.
Stevens" by Kennon and is a sketch of the life
and spiritual devotion of a child who died in
his fourteenth year, and yet had accomplished in
that short time in the interest of the Gospel more


than many men of mature years. It is a most in-
teresting life-record. Third is entitled "Finding
Comfort," by Elder Thomas A. Shreeve, and is
much longer than the other sketches; but
also contains experiences and incidents calcu-
lated to awaken and inspire faith in the young
Elders of Israel who are called to preach the Gos-
pel to the nations. Fourth subject is "Traitors,"
by Elder Ben E. Rich and should be as a voice
of warning to all, for as he truthfully says, "a
traitor can never be anything but despicable."
Bro. Rich illustrates his chapter with examples
that are well known in history, but which taken in
connection with his essay, as it might properly be
called, are brought home to the reader with an in-
creased moral force. We have perused the book
carefully and most heartity recommend it to the
homes and libraries of the Latter-day Saints.
For sale at the Office of the Juvenile Instructor,
Salt Lake City, Utah. Price 25 cts.


