PARTING LOOK AT MUNICH.

	This morning we were off to the New Pina-
kothek, where the modern pictures are found.
We knew the building as we would know the
face of a friend long before we reached it. The
frescoes on the exterior give it a most individu-
al appearance. The temperature was the only
thing that seemed unnatural. It was comfort-
able. We had shivered through the rooms
many a time in the cold days of the winter.
The danger of freezing one's feet, does dampen
the ardor, or cool off the enthusiasm of the
most aesthetic minds, as the benumbed tourist
vainly endeavors to comprehend the beauty of
Hess, Kaulbach or Rottmann. "The Deluge"
looks just as terrible, notwithstanding our own
personal comfort while we contemplate it. We
are told that the sensitive nature of Schorn
was so shocked by the work of his own hands
and brain that his mind gave way, and death
was the consequence of his mental prostration.
"The Destruction of Jerusalem," so wonder-
fully treated by Kaulbach, leaves no such
haunting phantoms as the "Deluge." Its softer
and more beautiful designs are more prominent
than the work of destruction. The encaustic
views of Greek landscapes have a new charm
as we come upon them again in these warmer
days. The mellowed light falling upon them
from above is better than we found in the gray
of winter clouds. We can only give a short
call now on our favorites, but we stop to re-

[Column 2]

new our acquaintance with Reidel's "Italian
Women," and make our bow to the ladies of
the royal family of Bavaria. Many a fair
lady smiles down from the canvas. Most of
these court beauties were young and beautiful
when the artist secured these interesting por-
traits.
	We would be glad to linger hours in this
familiar gallery, but the inexorable hand of
time points beyond, and we go on to take our
last look at the Glyptothek. The statues of
Italy have not weaned us from our regard for
this collection. The two colossal lions with
human heads still keep guard at the entrance.
The originals of these monsters, taken from the
palace of Kalah in Assyria, are to be found in
the Louvre. We go down the Egyptian Hall
with a sort of friendly feeling for the queer old
Sphynxes and priests who stand up in stone,
grey or white or black, as the case may be,
just as they did when the world was somewhat
younger than she is in our time. The Hall
of AEgina is the one which interests us most.
To-day we have a good classical scholar
with us, and we are anxious to show off the
relics of AEgina. These sculptures, the work
of artists who lived long centuries before
Christ, are looked upon as among the most
valuable remains of ancient art which have
come down to us. Many of the figures are
from one of the old temples—probably that 
of Minerva. The two groups which origin-
ally adorned the pediment are of especial
interest. They represent the combats around
the body of Achlles and that of Laomedon.
The figures are less than life size and were
found in many fragments. The wonderful
skill of Thorwaldsen has given them back to
us, perfect in all respects. The action con-
veyed by the two groups is striking, but the
features seem tame and expressionless. We
sigh over our lack of time as we hasten
through hall after hall, dedicated to the gods
decorated with wonderful frescoes and filled
with such marvels of work. We are taking
leave of our favorites and our parting must 
be brief. We save the Hall of Bacchus as
a precious morsel till towards the last of our
stay. It contains the "Winckelmann Faun"
and the sleeping satyr or "Barberini Faun."
We think of Donatello and Miriam, Kenyon
and Hilda, and go over the ground with
them, pondering the legends of the faun,
and Hawthorne's fanciful rendering of the
"Romance of Monte Beni." The author has
only looked a little below the surface of
everyday life. Human characters are de-
veloped from human experiences and emo-
tions. The mortal lineaments are as plastic
under the influence of habitual thought and
action as the clay is in the designer's hands.
The noble life leaves its stamp. The spirit-
ual life lies back of the physical, ready by
development to break through and glorify the
countenance as it blesses all on whom it
shines. We left the great satyr in his stony
sleep, chained by the artist's hand to his
centuries of repose. So long as that marble
endures through all the time to come, inac-
tion is the portion which the master mind of
its creator has decreed as its fate.
	The "Isar rolling rapidly" makes a charm-
ing view as it rushes under the picturesque
bridges which always tempt one to stop and
admire their surroundings. We drive down
the broad Maximilian Strasse that we may
get our best sight of, and cross the Maxi-
milians-brucke the handsomest of the bridges.
We inspect the beautiful gates of the city,
go over to the Basilica of St. Boniface to
show off the frescoes of Hess and his pupils,
feeling in some sort that the honor of the
city lies in our hands now, and that we
must put it before others in its best possible
light. We persuade our friend to be enfolded
within the embrace of the watchful Bavaria,

[Column 3]

and then saving our best treat that we may
crown our day with it, we are left at the
door of the dear friends whose beautiful Ger-
man home had been such a restful retreat to
us on our previous visit to the old city. Our
desire to see them once again before going
northward had been the strongest incentive
to our return.
	They made us welcome in such hearty fash-
ion that our measure of content was full.
Their hospitality was delightful in its kind-
est manifestations. We sat on the sofa and
talked of the old times and the new times, the
Old World and the New World, the old friends
and the new friends, and we all felt in our
hearts that there could be no friends like the
old friends and the true friends. Those whose
experiences have run side by side with our own
in youth, if worthy, gain a place in our affec-
tions not so easily reached in the haste and 
care that crowds upon our after years. Some-
times, it is true, our guest chambers may be
held in readiness for those who have been de-
tained along their way, who by some chance
our eyes have not been able to make out at first.
We know those, too, when once we have met
them, and their welcome is assured. There is
something more than pleasure in finding our
friends after many years of separation, putting
our hands in theirs, and finding the clasp as
hearty as of old. To have no shade of disap-
pointment enter into such reunions, makes the
meeting one of unalloyed satisfaction. To sit
on the sofa in a German home is to be hon-
ored. We enjoyed our honor to the full. The
grandmother of the family, who had come over
the sea so many years before to make a new
home for herself in the land of her child's
adoption, sat in the other corner full of earnest
questions about those on the other side. The
gentle-hearted German father watched a fair-
haired daughter as she busied herself in sweet
household ways, and with her own hands made
ready the dainty evening meal. Plants blos-
somed before the windows; the piano stood
open and the rooms showed in many ways the
charming taste of those who lived such genu-
ine healthful lives as these good friends. That
tea drinking was more than meat and drink.
Even pleasant things come to an end. There
was a last clasp of the hands, a farewell for
many years perhaps, the servant lighted us
across the court, the great gate was locked
behind us, we wondered what made it so
dark, and went silently down the street.
		R. R.


