Gramps' Best Behavior "Shall we go in?" "It seems like yesterday Myra was a little tyke, and I carried her around piggy-back. Now here she is a young lady," Gramps volunteered on the way to the house. "Oh, Gramps," Myra said, her face coloring slightly. "It's really been quite awhile." "T guess it just seems that way to an old man," he said sadly. She slipped her arms around his waist. "It's nice to remember, Gramps. And it was fun," she whispered. Naomi smiled. How quickly she responds when she thinks she has hurt him! "My father-in-law will show you two to your room," Naomi said, "and Myra can share my room. I'll help you with your load, dear." "Might as well put your bags in your room now," Gramps said, leading the way to the stairs.

"Right this way." 'Naomi turned to her daughter when they were alone in their room. "I hope you understand. Gramps wouldn't miss seeing you, and he wanted so much to meet David—I couldn't break his heart."

Myra sat down. "I know, Mom. I felt like a traitor asking such a thing. I just don't want anything to go wrong."

"Nothing will. You are the last person in the world Gramps would want to hurt."

"I know that, Mother. He wouldn't mean to, but I keep remembering—Darrel Murch."

"That was several years ago. You didn't really care for him, did you?" 

"No, of course not, but David's different."

"Does he mean so much to you?"

"I'm—I'm hoping—dreaming he will propose—maybe here." Naomi took her daughter's hand in hers. "Are you sure he's the right one?"

"I'm very sure, Mother." She kissed her daughter. "Then I hope he loves you, too. Now we'd better go downstairs and finish dinner."

"What's the menu?" Naomi smiled. "Things I thought your guests would like—fried chicken, mashed potatoes, hot biscuits, cake, and all the rest."

"Sounds great. Good food, plus pleasant conversation, I trust," Myra said hopefully. "The evening will go well." She was right too. Myra and David kept a steady conversation going about school, mutual friends, and Church activities. Gramps sat straight in his chair listening to every comment made by David, ready to pounce on any provocative statement, while Brother Stewart, a little more subtle, was just as concerned about the welfare of his only grandson.

How she wished she could read their minds, or did she? The two young people didn't seem the least concerned. It was after dinner when they were in the living room that Gramps ran his fingers through his hair, as he often did when he had a point to make, and looked directly at David. "This modern generation, I don't think they have much purpose in life. Why, when I was a boy, we knew."

"Well, Sir, I guess each generation thinks it's the best. I don't agree with you that your generation had more purpose. I think the young people of today probably both right; each generation has its problems, and its aspirations too." "Folks are soft today. Believe me in my day you didn't live if."

"We try to meet the challenge of our day, Sir. True, we aren't called to walk across the plains like many of our ancestors, but I'll wager if we were called upon to do that today, we'd manage." Gramps raised his eyebrows. "You don't agree with me on much of anything, do you, Son?"

"If you mean about our generation, I'm afraid I don't. Oh, I know there are slackers today, but there were in your time too."

"Let's change the subject," Naomi said.

Myra looked worried. "Yes, let's do," she said. "I find the subject stimulating," Brother Stewart remarked. "You know, Brother Lawes, I have some interesting memories of our day too." "I remember when I was a boy," Gramps began, and the conversation continued until bedtime—probably way beyond. Naomi and Myra could hear them talking long after they had retired.

"Oh, Mom," Myra buried her head in the pillow. "David will never, never accept another invitation. He must be terribly bored."

"If he loves you, I doubt if a little boring discussion will exactly frighten him away. Besides, I thought he rather enjoyed it." "Gramps doesn't like him." "Don't be so sure." Myra turned over in bed. "Gramps seems so deliberate...." "He's concerned and I think he feels needed in protecting his granddaughter's interest. Be tolerant, darling. David will understand. Remember, he has a grandfather too."

Early the next morning Naomi heard the three of them tiptoe past the door and go quietly downstairs. She nudged Myra. "We'd better get up too." "Isn't it terribly early?" asked sleepily. "Gramps never sleeps late."

When they went downstairs a few minutes later, they were surprised to see Brother Stewart and David out on the patio alone. Brother Stewart was bent over laughing and David was writing.

"They certainly seem cheerful," Naomi commented. "At least Brother Stewart." Myra looked puzzled. "He is always serious at school." "Something has struck him funny." Myra watched them for several more minutes, then she turned to her. "Maybe they're laughing at Gramps." "Of course they're not." "Then why isn't Gramps with them? If I thought they were ridiculing his stories—like Darrel Murch did—I'd—I'd—" "I'm sure they aren't."

"Poor Gramps." She flung the apron she had just started to put on across the room and banged TX "I know, Mom. Goodnight." yi, L&E, Gramps' Best Behavior out the door.

"Where's Gramps?" she asked coldly as she swung past the two startled men. Brother Stewart had stopped laughing as he pointed to the backyard. "Out there," he said. David stared after her.

Naomi followed, then stopped abruptly when she saw Gramps sitting forlornly in an old chair at the edge of the yard whittling on a piece of wood. "Oh, no," she cried. Myra was _ night; g 'Gramps had been hurt again—and it was her fault; she should have insisted.... She watched, unable to move, as Myra ran to his side and knelt beside him, resting her head on his knees.

"Gramps," she whispered. "Dear Gramps, I'm sorry."

Absent-mindedly he ruffled her hair. "Don't bother me, tyke," he said. "What's wrong?" Naomi managed to ask. After a long wait, he looked at her through his kindly gray eyes. "That young man has asked for my granddaughter's hand—I'm deciding." Then he turned toward the patio. "Come on out here, David," he called.

Myra appeared stunned as she stood up, looking from Gramps to David. Brother Stewart joined them, holding up a piece of paper. "Your Grandfather and I have been collaborating a big share of the night on a book on pioneer life. He told me some humorous accounts that should make our book invaluable. I've never laughed so much."

Naomi saw the color come back into her daughter's face. She swallowed several times, then bent down and asked in a low voice. "What are you deciding, Gramps?"

"Well sir," he grinned up at her. "I reckon if I'd personally looked the whole university over, I wouldn't have come up with a better grandson."

"Thank you, Sir," David said. "Could—could I talk to you, Myra?" Brother Stewart smiled happily at the two as he returned to the patio with his notes, and Naomi was alone with Gramps.

He glanced up at her with an impish grin, his bright eyes shining. "By the way, Naomi," he asked, "how's my behavior? Personally, I don't think it's so bad."

She laughed. "Not bad, but I'll admit I was rather worried last night. You gave that young man a rough time."

He slipped his whittling knife back in his pocket. "Well now," he drawled, "how you going to know what a fellow is really like—if you don't have a little friendly discussion? You can't get anywhere with just plain parlor talk."

Leastways, I never could." She gave him a big hug as Walter's words flowed back into her mind. "Pa's a discerning one—only the genuine survive him." Well, David Stewart had survived him, and she was glad.

So LATE SEPTEMBER

This day is tangy sweet with ripening fruit,
Shade-cool, but blazing hot in open sun.
Such tawny autumn colors, glowing warm,
Hold all of summer's loveliness, as one
Arrayed in beauty flings her charms about
Or scents the ditchbank, field, and streams.

Late roses vie with apples, red and gold,
To rouse nostalgic thoughts. It often seems
Through winter cold and snow, let us remember,
This time of dreams and warmth in