Mildred Bennion Eyring, May 23, 1896–June 25, 1969
Mildred Bennion Eyring, member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away June 25, 1969 in Salt Lake City, Utah. Sister Eyring had served on the General Board for nineteen years, being appointed in 1950. While serving on the General Board Sister Eyring endeared herself to thousands of Relief Society sisters throughout the world. She was an excellent speaker, and devoted her talents to the needs of the General Board, giving service to education and other committees as well as to the work of conferences in the stakes. Sister Eyring was born in Granger, Utah. She was the daughter of Marcus and Lucy Smith Bennion. She married Dr. Henry Eyring; noted educator and physicist, August 25, 1928. They are the parents of three sons. There are six grandchildren. Sister Eyring was educated in the Granite School District in Salt Lake City. She was graduated from the University of Utah, where she headed the physical education department for women. She also did graduate work at the University of Wisconsin where she met her husband. She has been a member of the Sunday School General Board and has served loyally in ward organizations and sung in the choirs. She and her husband taught a Sunday School class which was especially appreciated and had a large attendance. At the time of her call to the General Board of Relief Society she was a counselor in the Monument Park Ward Relief Society. She was always devoted to Relief Society and has attended the meetings regularly, giving spiritual encouragement and the blessings of her inspirational companionship to all the women in the ward.

The General Board of Relief Society and members throughout the Church who knew and admired Sister Eyring extend heartfelt sympathy to her loved ones at her passing.

Farewell

How precious these last few days of hummingbirds and fields
To summer of tall corn; large cottonwood trees laden with leaves;
Sunflowers by the side of the road. All too soon the frogs and crickets
Are silent, and mothers are alone when the first school bell rings.