Art in the Home
Grayce E. Cutler
Transparencies by the author > Liberty Park, Salt Lake City, Utah, from a painting by John Hafen

Swiftly the changing lights reached the level of our top window, where the cut-glass prisms were. A cheerful grate fire crackled in the open fireplace and music from our old phonograph played a soft accompaniment. This was the moment I waited for: the hour of sunset when our living rooms glowed and the original oil paintings on the walls were pools of light. Red, blue, and gold shafts of sunlight filtered through the diamond panes. Urgently, I cried, "Mother, come quickly or you will miss it." A voice came from the kitchen, "Just a minute, dear, the pies have to be taken out of the oven first." I ran over to the corner of the room, to change the record on the phonograph, hurrying back to the settee. "Hurry, hurry, now, Mother, the lights are on the rocks now." This was the crucial moment because to wait much longer, one would miss the whole show. Soon Mother came running in, apron flying, trailing spicy odors of black-currant pies fresh from the oven. She sat by me, wiping her hands on the towel in her lap, and, together, we watched a miracle of light play on the many original paintings, following one after another with liquid sunshine.

From the red rocks on down with the setting sun, blue and gold lights sparkled into the open sea, making it truly a sea of gold. This was my favorite painting, the one of Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, in a storm, by Alfred Lambourne, Utah artist and writer, who lived in a little house on this lonely island in certain seasons of the year and painted its many moods.

Uncle Fred was mother's brother. She was the heroine "Plet" in his epic tale of the Wasatch Mountains, the year of the big avalanche. Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, from a painting by Alfred Lambourne

The shadows grew longer now and the colors deepened. "Mother, just look at that gold-dust on the desert!" A large desert oil by John Hafen filled one end of the living room, an authentic scene of covered wagons trailing gold dust at the end of day. The setting sun shone blood-red on the strange sculpture of Monument Valley. We looked with anticipation around the room, as every evening was a different experience, changing with the seasons and weather.

In the corner, a small landscape by George Ottinger, a pastel of Liberty Park by Hafen, and on the opposite wall, an oil of my grandfather, John C. Cutler when he was Governor of the State of Utah. As the sun rays reached his eyes, we exclaimed "Doesn't he look as if he could speak to us?" We watched with awe as his blue eyes sparkled and smiled a little. Imagination can run riot at such times, later to become inspiration for expression or just priceless memories.

A few moments now and it would be all over; the red sun dropped quickly behind the dark filigree of trees in front of our home. The soft wind blowing the lace curtains seemed like a whispered goodnight. Little did I realize the same principle would apply in later years to my own paintings in my little home.

Vivid memories return as I frequently walk through the modern galleries and museums of San Francisco and experience the avant-garde art of psychedelic light. It seems as if a stage had been set for the art of tomorrow. Through centuries of painting, true artists worked endlessly, seeking the mystical quality of light. One of the great masters, William Turner (1775-1851) became famous for his insight and genius in depicting pure light. As one views his retrospective exhibition in the Tate Gallery, London, the impact of an inner light on one after another of his great works (filling three galleries) was like an unknown spiritual source.

The French Impressionists later attained light more than any other school and will live forever. The early Utah painter, Lee Greene Richards studied this school of painting in Europe and was greatly influenced by it. One day Mother took me to his studio to show him my first little watercolors. It was a beautiful studio with windows facing South Temple and a real skylight. He showed me his fine paintings.

(Continued on page 692)
 
Look to November from a painting by Grayce E. Cutler Asters In the Autumn Garden Transparency by Luoma Studios