Handicrafts for the Home Annetta S. Mower Perhaps there is nothing quite as enjoyable for a woman as decorating her own home, and even more enjoyable if she can use a little of her own ingenuity and talent.

Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts A BENCH FOR THE HALL
Recently, my husband built a dining-library room on our house leaving our hall, which had previously been filled with books, looking empty and colorless. As our hall is small we decided on the amount of space we could devote to a bench without interfering with the passageway. We then cut a pine board that size and stained it walnut. We stapled on a piece of foam in the middle of the board, being sure to tuck the top edge of the foam underneath to give it a tufted look. Then it was covered with upholstery material and tacked down with brass upholstery tacks. Painting chains black to match our black wrought iron rails on our stairs, we fastened them to the stubs in the wall and to the front of the board. Underneath the board small braces were attached so that the bench was serviceable as well as attractive. This stayed within our budget, costing $6.

Model, Marguerite Mower Covering another piece of masonite with burlap, we made a background with a felt ark for Noah, his wife, and stuffed animals that were sold at a Relief Society bazaar. The animals were so attractive, I wanted to show them off, yet at the same time allow the children to play with them. I sewed a large snap on each animal and small holes were drilled through the masonite for wiring on the counterpart of the snap, allowing for the animals to be played with and then snapped back on the picture. The white dove is beautiful on blue burlap sky, and the orange and yellow ark seems ready for its long voyage upon the waters; the striped zebra, the bearded lion, the pink pig, the mottled snakes, in curves of grandeur, a blue elephant and a pink elephant, and the wooly sheep, with the flapping ears, seem real enough to enter into the ark and make a safe return trip without being lost. Our own handicraft has given us pleasure in the planning and the doing and now offers continued enjoyment for the whole family.
 
Models, Megan and Michael Mower RHYMES AND STORIES AND CASTLES
My mother read to my sisters and me from a lovely old nursery rhyme book. When I began reading to my children from this same book the pages were worn and beginning to tear. Loving the characters from the book and wanting my children to enjoy them as I had, I made a picture of these characters drawing them on paper and then cutting them out of felt. My husband covered a masonite board with burlap on which the felt pictures had been sewed.

Among the colorful characters which now appear in the picture, which occupies a place of interest on the nursery wall, are Simple Simon, the Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe, Mistress Mary, Wee Willie Winkle, and others of the cherished people loved by generations of children. They are now giving continued pleasure to Megan, Michael, and Marguerite who greet their storybook friends each day, and sometimes tell them goodnight.

The Hawaiian booth was a delight—colorful and inviting.