Ardean T. W/m & ~ Loertscher

"TI'll get you some buckets," declared Angie, as she jumped up and ran into the garage. In a few seconds she reappeared with an armful of brightly colored tin buckets and shovels, and some tablespoons she had borrowed from the kitchen. The Japanese children grinned and giggled as they each received their allotted playthings from Angie.

One little girl, whom the others called Keiko, tenderly caressed Angie's bare white legs which emerged from the ruffled bottom of her pink sunsuit. The girl seemed to marvel at the skin that was at least two shades lighter than her own. Large mountains and valleys began to take form in the sand pile as the foursome repeatedly filled and emptied their buckets. A miniature car was buried and uncovered. Ribbons of roads, made by tractors, steam shovels, and trucks, wound around the mountains and through the valleys.

"Let's make a farm," cried Angie. "My uncle has a farm. I'll go get some cows."

The screen door banged behind her as she skipped into the house. She was greeted with "ohs" and "ahs" when she returned with a plastic bag full of horses, cows, chickens, ducks, pigs, sheep, dogs, and cats.

The girl named Keiko fingered a cow and repeated a strange word Angie couldn't understand.

"No, it's a cow," Angie corrected. But Keiko continued to say the strange word. Not being able to quite understand what this meant, Angie decided to build a field for the cows. She ran to the tall maple tree which stood at the end of the long back yard. There she picked up dry twigs and sticks. When she had all her chubby hands could carry, she returned to the sand pile.

One by one, she pushed the ends of the sticks into the sand next to each other. Her three playmates joined her in the task, and soon an area about a foot in diameter was encircled by the fence.

"The ducks need a pond to swim in," declared Angie as she ran for the sprinkler hose. She tugged the hose to the sand pile and carefully placed it in a ravine. Back she ran to the water tap on the side of the house.

As the water came on full force, the end of the hose flipped up, drenching the make-believe land in an unexpected shower. The three Japanese friends were also caught in the sudden sprinkle, but screams of delight and laughter escaped their mouths as the water cooled their skin.

Just then the sound of a car in the driveway drew their attention.

"That's my Daddy," revealed Angie. "He's a mission president."

Angie ran to greet the tall man who stepped out of the car.

"Daddy, come look at my farm," she coaxed.

"MY! You're a dirty, wet girl! You better come in the house and get cleaned up for dinner," replied her father.

"Who were your friends in the sand pile?" her father asked when they reached the bathroom.

"I don't know their names," Angie replied. "Can you understand them?"

"No, they talk funny," she declared rather puzzled.

"Isn't it hard to play if you can't understand them?" he continued.

Angie's face darkened for an instant but right back up again as she replied:

"But Daddy, we all laugh the same."

The leaves are scurrying across the street,

SCHOOL and little children run on new-clad feet. Swiftly the years are hurrying colorful, wind-spun.

Soon, the brittle leaves are gone, and school-days done.