Homemaking
Development Through Homemaking Education
Woman's Role in Family Preparedness

Discussion 
"The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her, So That He Shall Have No Need of Spoil." (Prov. 31:11.)
Celestia J. Taylor

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: To recognize that debt must be controlled to insure family happiness and financial security.

This taskmaster is a truth He who spends what he does not have purchases only chains as we allow our wants and desires for goods and services to exceed our ability to pay for them. Relinquished and debt becomes a burden. Wise men of every age bear witness to the folly of overspending—whether it be of our time, energy, or money.

Benjamin Franklin, the well-known exponent of common sense in all practical affairs, made the following comment: "Think what you do when you run into debt; you give to another power over your liberty."

Our Church leaders have had no hesitancy in admonishing us to keep out of debt. Following are some of their instructions:

The Prophet Joseph Smith:
Let thy hand never fail to hand out that thou owest while it is yet within thy grasp to do so.
(Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 317.)

President Brigham Young: 
Be prompt in everything, and especially to pay your debts.
(Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 14, p. 279 [hereafter referred to as JD].)

Also:
It is an old saying that a woman can throw out of the window with a spoon as fast as a man can throw into the door with a shovel; but a good housekeeper will be saving and economical, and teach her children to be good housekeepers, and how to take care of everything that is put in their charge...

President John Taylor:
We are told to pay our debts...
To keep out of debt and meet our obligations day by day.

President Joseph F. Smith:
"Get out of debt now...
And let your income hereafter always be greater than your expenses." That is the only safe way to be independent...
The advice of Benjamin Franklin should ever stand clearly before you: "Pay as you go."
(The Improvement Era, Nov. 1938, pp. 668, 673.)

President George Albert Smith:
We have been taught by those whom the Lord has raised up to instruct us
that we should live within our income, that we should not spend as rapidly, and certainly not more rapidly, than we can earn the money that comes into our hands, to take care of ourselves and our families.
(Church News, August 8, 1959, p. 2.)

It is common knowledge that more family problems and difficulties stem from the mismanagement of financial affairs than from any other source. In an address given during the 136th Semi-Annual General Conference, John H. Vandenberg, the Presiding Bishop of the Church, said:

Unwarrantable indebtedness is one of the curses of this day and age. It causes many people to live their lives in bondage. The lure of buying on time under the 'easy payment plan' too often puts the millstone around the neck of the purchaser; and when once in the credit rut, it is very hard to get out.

When a family finds itself too far in debt, the atmosphere of dis