[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Art | Title: Art]

arth has reason to give thanks to the Creator for life upon the earth. 
Life is the greatest gift of God to man. 
How it shall be used and developed to the highest point, is a lesson which has as much to do with sickness, distress and poverty as it has to do Avith prosperity, health and success. 
When the sisters of the Relief Society offer up their thanks, this Thanksgiving month, let us be grateful lor some of the large gifts which belong to us all alike. 
Let us be grateful for life upon the earth for comparative health, or. for an instructive faith-promoting illness; for the bounteous crops of garden and farm, whether our share thereof be much or little; for liberty of conscience, and for the agency which permits us to travel ever upward, albeit we ever go in a zig-zag and irregular climb let us be thankful for citizenship in this wonderful country, where the will of the individual is subordinate to the good of the whole people. 
Above all, let us give thanks for a membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where liberty, love, and peace are daily possibilities, no matter what circumstances or conditions may surround us. 
For all these things, then, we offer up our thanks to the Giver of all Good, while we pray for similar blessings to descend upon all God's children everywhere. 
 November GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson II. 
Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events. 
Preparing Sheets for Temple Use: "Whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not  be recorded in heaven." Doc. and Cov. 128: 8. 
In preparing this lesson, the class teacher will need to secure blanks from the temple in her district. 
There are three kinds of blanks issued for recording information to be used in our temple ordinance work. 
They are Baptismal sheets, : which are used also for endowment purposes; marriage sheets, which are used only for names of the dead who are to be sealed adoption sheets, which are used only for the purpose; of recording the names of the two parents and the family of children who are to be adopted to the parents. 
Each member of the class should have a sample sheet of all three of these record sheets, that this lesson might be prepared intelligently and carefully. 
Let the class teacher read the instructions on the baptismal sheet first, and then ask the class to prepare the sheet according to those instructions, and the same plan should be followed with all of the other sheets. 
You will observe several points; first, that all the men's names are put upon one sheet together for baptism and endowment purposes, and that all of the women's names are arranged in like manner. 
The marriage sheets have only the names of the couples to be sealed, without adding their children. 
The adoption sheets are arranged for recording one family thereon. 
Where there are but one or two children in a family, more than one family can be written on one sheet. 
Another point to be noted is that the numbering of these names is the clue by which the genealogist keeps order in his records. 
The numbers should be copied from the written family record, and not numbered on the sheet itself. 
For instance, if John Young is numbered in my temple record as 15, I should copy that number on my temple sheet, no matter whether he were first, last, or in the middle of the sheet. 
This allows the genealogist to know at a glance where the names belong m his record when he receives the sheet back from the temple. 
If the genealogist has several record books at home, and they are lettered a, b, c, etc., he should know exactly where the sometimes happens that the particular John Young belongs. 
It genalogists carry their numbers only up to 5,000, and then  begin at number 1, so that the number of the book as well as the number of the name should be noted on the temple sheet. 
The blank forms are reproduced in miniature in your Genealogical Lesson Book, to which please refer. 
November