Under Divine Charter Leo J. Muir President, Northern States Mission THE request that I should prepare this article has led me to a somewhat thoughtful analysis of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am venturing to set forth in these brief paragraphs the impressions that have come to me as I have proceeded in this study. I hope these impressions may prove interesting to all who read them, even though they may be obvious and commonplace. Let us begin with the impressive fact that this Society obtained its charter and received its commission under divine inspiration and guidance. This is the basic consideration in any logical examination of this beneficent Society. It was born under inspiration from God. Its charter did not come from some previously existing women's organization. It is doubtful that the humble group of women who sat with the Prophet and his associates at the organization of this Society could have obtained a charter under any women's organization had there been such organizations. There were no installation ceremonies, no sumptuous banquet, no publicity, no glamourous program. Eighteen humble women, modestly attired, met in the lodge room on the second floor of the Joseph Smith Store building in Nauvoo. There they sat in the presence of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his two associates, John Taylor and Willard Richards. The Prophet announced the purpose of the Society: it should care for the poor, minister to the sick, comfort the sorrowing, teach righteousness, and build up and strengthen the morals of the community. Here indeed is a noble commission! Here, also, a divine charter! It is interesting to recall that the meeting was-opened by the singing of that most fervent of all Latterday Saint hymns: ""The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." I think we have in this brief account of the organization of the Relief Society a clear indication of its lofty function. Its activities cover that interesting borderland where the spiritual and the temporal coalesce. Here the loftiest reaches of Christianity find application and fulfillment. Here the idealism of the Christian faith manifests itself in the handicraft of Christian service. No Page 519 FACSIMILE OF TWO PAGES OF MINUTES OF ORGANIZATION MEETING OF RELIEF SOCIETY, MARCH 17, 1842 In Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow, 522 other society of women, so far as I have ever heard, proclaims for itself a divine origin. No other women's society, so far as I know, is commissioned to function in the activities above specified for the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Let me repeat that the activities of this Society cover that fruitful borderland where the spiritual and the temporal coalesce. There could be no higher commission entrusted to any organization. This assignment to womankind parallels the authority and commission of the Priesthood entrusted to men. Ministrations of the Relief Society though temporal in nature, fulfill and realize the greatest of all spiritual precepts and admonitions. Let us reflect upon a few of these precepts: Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Inasmuch as ye do it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. He that findeth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth his life for My sake shall find it. Lovest thou me, Peter? Feed my sheep. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. But seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God... And thy neighbor as thyself. If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come and follow me. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. Love is the fulfilling of the law. These are the most auspicious service beacons known to human experience . Relief Society functions in the fulfillment of these loving mandates of the scriptures. The doctrines of Christian love constitute the objectives the bill of particulars in the commission given this Society. HE service of the Relief Society is a vision of what is to be. It is its exalted function to make dreams come true to fulfill the law through love. Only into the gentle hands of women could this high service be given with assurance of fulfillment. For more than a century the loving ministrations of the women of this Church have certified to the divine purpose of this Society. 'This divine purpose asserts itself not only in the service performed, but also in the growth experienced. The greatest product of service is growth. The loftier the service, the more noble the growth. Out of the service of Relief Society have come soul-chastening, consecration to duty, tender lovepower, and vital spirituality. The work of the Relief Society is soul-enriching. It bids not alone for self-sacrifice; it bids for self-fulfillment, self-realization. The noblest womanhood is attained and realized through the loving service to which this Society leads. The loveliness of womanhood is but the flowering of devoted service. The genius of the work of the Relief Society is love the love of woman for womankind, the love of woman for humanity, the love of woman for that which is pure, ideal, sacred. God implanted the seeds of such love in every woman's heart. That love God ordained is the most potential service-power known to human society. Womankind, love empowered God's beneficent UNDER DIVINE CHARTER agency of conservation! In her noblest role every woman is such an instrument in God's hands. Horace Mann has given us this profound thought: "Ideality is only the avaunt-courier of the mind, and where that goes in a healthy and normal state, I hold it to be a prophecy that realization can follow." The idealism entertained by the women the mothers who make up the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a propitious harbinger of the ideal life of that peace, love, and abundance of which the Savior spoke so frequently. Ihe activities of this Society are pointed in that direction. Through such activities the ideal takes form and dwells among us. We have been speaking of the ideal and its realization. Let us not too quickly reach the conclusion that, either as a society or as individuals, we have reached, or may soon reach, the service-power here foreshadowed. Let us be happy that we are rightly pointed. A great service is soul-chastening. Latter-day Saint women have experienced more than a century of such self-refinement and soul-growth. As individuals and as an organization the women of the Relief Society have achieved much growth and refinement. However, it will be admitted that they still fall short of the preparation demanded under their high commission. Perhaps in the mechanics and in the technique of social service they occasionally reach the desired standards. Of this they may be proud. The failures which most impair their success are those which arise out of their lack of spiritual qualification. The "esprit de corps" of Relief Society activities is sisterhood the power of gracious womanly cooperation. Of all social manifestations, a well-poised sisterhood is perhaps the noblest and most potential. Most good men admit that the sisterhood of woman is not only a more conservative but also a more hopeful factor in human brotherhood than is the spirit of fraternity among men. In the promotion of civic cleanliness, community morals, social justice, temperance, and Christian living, women, individually and through their organizations, have been far more effective than men. Because Relief Society is committed to the loftiest of ideals, to the most sacred of principles, it may well claim its place at the front of all women's organizations of all sisterhoods. Its work parallels that of the Priesthood and is protected and guided by the influence of that sacred power and commission given to men. Its scope is world-wide; its opportunity unlimited. It is the perfect sisterhood.
We must conclude with this paragraph. We have said that in the Relief Society, operating under divine charter, the idealism of the Christian faith and the handicraft of Christian service coalesce. The perfection of this service the service to which the Society is commissioned is the ultimate goal of civilization. Through the triumph of these ideals, mankind will bring into reality the "Land of Promise," the "life abundant." The "hope of Israel" is the assurance men have that the ideal will become real, that good will triumph over evil, that "love will fulfill the law," that the Kingdom of Heaven will be found "at hand," and the Kingdom of God manifest itself "within us." Be ye therefore faithful to your stewardship.