The Social Effects of Alcohol
Dr. Harold T. Christensen Brigham Young University
SO widespread is the spirit of individualism today that many people are trying to emancipate themselves from the control standards of society, and are thereby attempting to live independently, without social responsibility. "What I do is my own business," they say; and then they proceed to prove it by breaking every law of man, nature, and God. Now this highly individuated hedonistic philosophy is all wrong. We are our brother's keepers, and they ours. Each of us is the product of the personalities and the cultures around him; and like it or not, the actions of each do affect others, and, to a small degree, help shape world history. Society therefore has a right to concern itself with the behavior patterns of individuals.
One of these patterns is that of drink. Alcohol is older than civilization itself, but at no time in history has it been more of a social problem than today. The speed and complexity of these times seem to have uprooted the morals of the ages and to have left man alone and confused. And in this frame of mind man often drinks. But it is the contention of this article that he has no moral right to do so; there are no individual rights apart from social welfare, and the social repercussions of the drink perversion are alone enough to condemn it.
This is not a temperance tract, however. Nor is it an attempt to moralize or preach on the subject. The effects of alcoholism upon both the individual and society are so far-reaching and so devastating that any thinking person must recognize them. Our problem is to get people to think, and then to act accordingly. Shame and fear may deter for awhile, but only knowledge, in the atmosphere of fairness and responsibility, can determine permanent directions of conduct. Temperance is not a matter of virtue alone; it is a matter of intelligence also.
Drinking In Our Day
Let no one imagine that the alcohol problem is limited to an occasional drink of a few depraved individuals. There is abundant evidence that the habit is widespread, even in our "best" communities. Figures from the Liquor Control Commission of one of our states show that over five million dollars have been spent in this state alone over the past twelve months for distilled spirits and wines; this represents nearly ten dollars per capita. In terms of gallon consumption the figure approaches one million, or an average of between one and one-half and two gallons for every man, woman, and child in the state. Furthermore, total expenditures for liquor in the state during the last twelve months increased more than a million dollars over those for the corresponding period a year ago; and none of these figures include beer, which is consumed at a rate many times that of distilled spirits and wines. Alcohol has become one of the major industries, and it is high time that we awaken to the problems it creates.
One reason for this apparent increase in liquor consumption is the war hysteria that surrounds us. In the haste and confusion of the day, many are losing their poise and moral integrity. Some are adopting a "last fling" philosophy, an "eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow we may die" point of view. Others are turning to drink as an escape from their worry or their sorrow over the loss of a loved one. Still others are finding alcohol a tempting diversion from the monotony of their jobs and an outlet for some of their newfound money. The soldier boy is often exposed to new experiences and hardships that tempt him to drink, and being removed from the stabilizing and sobering influences of friends and loved ones at home, he too frequently yields. War is a social earthquake, and drink is one of the vultures that follow in its wake.
We must win this war, but we will never do it by alcohol. From Pearl Harbor to the present there is evidence that drink cuts down the coordinated efficiency so essential to success in modern combat. There are some today who are foolishly arguing that the soldier boys should have their liquor and other vices for the sake of morale. This is all wrong. Morale is imperative, but it cannot be built up or maintained in this way. The problem is not a choice between morality or morale; there is no necessity of choosing between the two. Morale based upon morality is the only kind that will stand up under strain and endure over time. Temperance is essential to good citizenship whether in time of war or in time of peace. May we be wise enough to realize this before it is too late.
Personal Disorganization
The entire life organization of the person who drinks is thrown off balance temporarily while under the influence of liquor, but permanently through the impact of this experience upon his personality. Drink has the tendency to dull the finer sensitivities of man and to remove his moral inhibitions. When intoxicated, man reverts to the beast. No wonder, then, that the drunkard loses caste; no wonder society comes to mistrust, pity, and even despise him.
There is a negative relationship between drink and efficiency, regardless of the activity considered. The inebriated individual may think he is doing well, but those around him know better. As a matter of fact, this deluded state of mind, which makes the drinker attempt with confidence feats that he is not qualified to execute, is one of the chief dangers of drink. We are told that gasoline and alcohol are not made to mix, and the frequent newspaper reports of automobile accidents because of drunken drivers make us realize that this is true. When hiring persons for responsible positions, employers almost universally pass by those who drink, as is well known, for drinking blunts the finer judgments and skills of its victims and leads to both irresponsibility and inefficiency.
Since drinking temporarily removes social restraint and places man back upon the animal level, it is understandable that the conduct of the drunkard is so often antisocial. Crime and delinquency are encouraged by alcohol. Sometimes the would-be delinquent drinks to secure the reckless bravado needed in execution of his contemplated crime; but more often, perhaps, the crime is unpremeditated, resulting directly from the suggestibility and the social inadequacy of the drunkard.
Sex delinquency and drink are very closely interrelated. While there is no claim that intoxication stimulates desire, it does remove the moral reserves and defenses built up in society, thus throwing individuals back upon their original impulses. It is well known that intoxication and seduction often go together; alcohol has become a means by which sex is exploited, and the growing tendency for women to drink makes this problem all the more serious. It is unfortunate that so many women in their struggle for equality with man have absorbed his vices before they have his virtues. It is true that sin, in whatever form, is equally wrong for both man and woman. But woman's position traditionally has been that of refinement and moral guidance, and unless this can be at least partially maintained, one hesitates to think what may happen to our civilization. Drinking is demoralizing for anyone, but because of her past standards and her present influence over man, drinking for woman seems to be particularly vicious. Chastity and temperance are twin virtues.
Mental disturbances are also often directly traceable to alcoholism. Every year in this country some five or six thousand persons are admitted to hospitals for mental disease under the classification of "alcoholic psychosis." In fact, this is one of the most common types of insanity, as shown by the records. But the records reveal nothing of the extent that alcohol contributes to other neurotic and psychotic conditions by contributing first of all to social maladjustment. Drink is a very real factor in the disorganization of personality; and disorganized individuals fall out of life's race early because they cannot successfully compete, or they turn anti-social, or psychopathic, and in extreme cases they even resort to suicide. Drinking is expensive whichever way one wants to look at it, but the cost in personal misery is far greater than the cost in dollars and cents.
Social Consequences
Personal and social disorganization are two different aspects of the same thing, for society is made up of individuals. When we say, therefore, that alcohol results in personal disorganization we also imply that society in general is disturbed. The individual cannot live entirely alone, as we have already said; every act he performs reverberates through the groups he belongs to, affecting loved ones, friends, and others.
As an example of this interrelationship let us look briefly at one social institution, the family. Of all groups to which man belongs, the family is the most basic to character and personality development, and for this reason it is also probably the most sensitive to neglect and abuse. The home pays dearly for the indulgences of its members, and drink is one of the most harmful vices in which men and women indulge. Under the influence of liquor men become brutes and love turns to disgust. Self-respect and mutual confidence cannot long survive. Verbal bickering frequently turns into physical attack. The family income is often squandered for liquor while innocent members are in need. Sometimes the breadwinner loses his job because of drink, and the family is left a public charge. The picture is not a happy one, but it is real; alcohol and successful home life are simply not compatible.
Similar analyses might be made concerning the effect of drink upon other social institutions; but whether one chooses to view the church, the school, the government, or some other institution, the picture is everywhere the same. This is a confused and conflicting world in which we live; and although it likely would not be perfect even though it were without drink, it would be a far, far better place than now.
Our Task
Men and women drink for many reasons, but usually there is a desire to let down, to forget worries and troubles, to escape from reality. Our task is to face the issue realistically, to teach the consequences of indulgence, and to show that there is no running away. Escapism is a delusion; problems are not solved by forgetting them during a few hours of drunken revelry. As a matter of fact, problems are usually accentuated by debauchery, and participants are weakened for the fight ahead. Our job is to know and to teach that the strength of character comes from resistance and struggle, not from indulgence.
If the alcohol problem is ever solved it will be through both education and motivation. There is too much ignorance on the effects of drink, and too much indifference toward its consequences, both private and social. Commercial interests, motivated by the desire for profit, use all sorts of artful appeals to advertise their liquor products. Those who already have the habit of drink use various social pressures for inducing others to follow suit in order to seemingly justify their own behavior and avoid social disapproval. And the public is altogether too gullible in accepting the point of view of these special-interest groups. There is a genuine need for all to understand the effects of alcoholic drink and to accept a social responsibility in its control.
Drinking is not the "smart" thing to do, although there are many who would have us think so. One does not have to take a drink in order to be a good "sport," although there are individuals and groups that like to interpret it that way. Rather the reverse is true, the "smartest" person and the best "sport" is the one who is able to resist the crowd and remain loyal to his ideals, while really the poorest "sport" of all is the one who tempts another to desert his standards for a drink or for some other indulgence under the guise of sportsmanship.
The anti-social effects of drink are many and far-reaching. Our task as Latter-day Saints, is to discover the truth in these things, and then to live by the light of this truth. Intelligent living is righteous living. We can do much to alleviate, if not eliminate, the problem of alcohol by informing ourselves of its consequences and by holding fast to the spiritual values of Mormonism for motivation.