How Shall We Preserve the Mental Health of Our Children in Wartime?
Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School No. IV
THE experience of England teaches us that children bear the shock of actual war at least as well as their parents. But in addition to this, perhaps the greater part of the war burden will fall on our children. A great share of the tremendous war debt will be their responsibility. The task of reconstructing a world broken by war will largely be theirs. Many of our homes will be broken by war casualties, and many children will be forced to "go it alone," like their great-grandparents did in pioneer days. Certainly no generation of children has faced a greater challenge than that faced by the generation of today. Children of today will have the task of making a world fit for democratic living. They will have the great challenge of constructing a world for their children which will be secure against aggression a better world than the world of today.
One great source of hardship for us adults during this war springs from our failure to learn that freedom cannot survive without a sense of responsibility to the group, and failure to discipline ourselves to place the public good ahead of personal convenience. Not until now that the enemy approaches our shores and for many, not even now have we begun to realize that, as Marshal Petain said of the French people after their fall, "We have been having too good a time." Parents, then, have two great challenges today: first, to save for our children the world from military bondage; and, second, to teach our children habits, attitudes, and ideals which will adequately qualify them to rebuild and live in a democratic society.
This is not an academic question of concern only to our schools, but is primarily a task for our homes. Training for freedom and responsibility begins in the cradle. It commences by teaching the child all through his growing period to do for himself everything he is able to do, and by teaching him to forget at proper times his immediate personal benefit for the good of society. This training is the forerunner of that virtue most urgently needed today; namely, willingness to give to one's government at least as much as one takes. The recent period of governmental assistance has brought to light how common is the desire to take from government benefits grossly disproportionate to what one contributes.
WITH the great challenge in mind that we must prepare our children for democratic living in the postwar world, let us consider some parental problems of the present. First of all, let us look at the mental health of the children of England. Many anxious mothers perhaps imagine that bombings, deprivation, and the general terror of war would likely make children very nervous, if not driving many to actual mental breakdown. Fortunately, there is little foundation for this fear. In England, children have lived through ruthless bombings with surprisingly few cases of actual war neuroses. In a broadcast from England last January, the following statement was made:
"Our experience ought to encourage them. The school medical officer of the county of London reported last week that there was no evidence among London children of nervous disorder or shock caused by air raids. They stood it as well as adults, maybe better. Nor did living in air-raid shelters do them any harm. We had no epidemic of disease.
"The bad effects seemed to be first on their education. When hundreds of thousands of the children were evacuated to the country, there was a shortage of school buildings. The schools were taken over for civilian defense, and a good many children got little or no education. When the problem was fully understood it was put right, and by last June nearly 98 per cent of British children were once more getting full-time schooling.
"The second bad effect was an increase in what is called juvenile delinquency, but what the ordinary parent calls 'naughtiness.' A lot more children got into trouble with the police in the first year of the war than in the last.... The causes were chiefly the breaking up of the home life and home discipline. Fathers were in the army and mothers were doing war work. Children had too much time on their hands. Not being able to go to school, the ease of stealing from bombed buildings and the excitement of the war in general helped them to misbehave."
(Quoted from an excellent bulletin of U. S. Children's Bureau, "To Parents in Wartime," page 18.)
One of the most serious effects on the English children grew out of their mass evacuation without adequate social placement services. Sometimes their own homes were destroyed or threatened and large numbers of children were moved in great haste to centers where a mother's intimate contact was lost. This uprooting of the normal affectional bonds between members of the family is the most serious mental hazard of war.
EVERY child requires three fundamental kinds of experience to maintain mental health: First, is the feeling of emotional security the feeling of being wanted, of belonging to someone who cares. Second, is the feeling that one has "a place in the sun," through his achievement a feeling of the importance of his status in society. Even small children do "cute tricks" of the "watch me" variety to give them a feeling that they are somebody. Adolescents strive earnestly, often ridiculously, to assume grownup ways. A strong desire to appear to have arrived at adult status drives many youths to use tobacco, drive automobiles recklessly, and to hide all childish emotions, however strongly they may feel them. Third, children require experiences that lead to a feeling of mastery over obstacles. The desire for mastery may be effectively utilized in the preparation of our young people for future democratic living.
Mental health in childhood can be promoted through the satisfaction of the above three needs. Consider first the need for affectional bonds. When homes are broken by fathers or brothers leaving with the armed forces, substitutes should be made whenever possible. Other adult males uncles, cousins, grandfathers should be encouraged to take an interest in the children. Church and other community leaders may play a part here. The Scout master and Sunday school teacher have a special opportunity. Mothers who become occupied with war work whether full-time defense work or part-time community service should devote themselves more actively than usual during the hours they can spend with the children to preserve in them a sense of emotional security. Since nothing contributes more to juvenile delinquency than conditions which make a child feel unwanted or that he does not "belong" in the hearts of others, all mothers should carefully weigh the relative value to the national welfare of doing defense work compared with the contribution they might make as mothers. We are trying to win this war for the future generation but let us not lose for democracy this future generation in our zeal to win the war.
Second, the child's need for a feeling of status or importance can be effectively utilized during the war effort. Many civilian assignments can, and should, be given to children. Special titles such as "Junior Aircraft Spotter" or "Member Junior Red Cross" often mean a great deal to the child. Cooperative projects in which children are organized for war work help to protect the child against anxiety because he can share his fears with others his age, and he can make some concrete contributions to the war effort, thereby dispelling his fears. The following excerpt from a report on last year's war work of children in Toronto, Canada, indicates the scope of projects children can engage in with great personal satisfaction as well as substantial value to the war effort:
"The school children sold war savings stamps and certificates of a total value of $333,641.08, and, in addition, they raised $44,000 for 38 war-work agencies. They collected 23,000 books and 143,000 magazines, and sent this reading material to troops in training. They made thousands of articles, including socks, mufflers, and gloves for the soldiers, sailors, and airmen. They wrote more than 8,000 letters to ex-pupils now in active service. They collected aluminum pots and pans, lead foil, scrap metal, and leather in large quantities for war industries. One school cancelled a quantity of war savings stamps and burned a $50 bond as a contribution to the war effort. Many schools provided taggers for the Red Cross, Navy League, and Greek Refugee tag days."
(Clarence M. Hincks, The Child in War Time, page 33, published by National Committee for Mental Hygiene, Canada.)
The child's third great need the need for a sense of mastery or achievement can be met very well through such civilian war activities as those mentioned above. Children may get considerable enjoyment out of learning new skills in making war articles (knitted goods, repaired clothing, and toys for evacuated children), and in administering first aid; for older children, an acquiring of fundamental knowledge and skill in radio operation, weather forecasting, and plane construction and maintenance brings keen enjoyment. War activities in which the family or social group can participate are especially valuable. The judicious parent can find some interesting activity for almost every age group. Already many of our children are engaged in some of the following activities: defense bond and stamp campaigns, relief fund drives, salvage campaigns, sewing and knitting projects, farm labor replacements (beet thinning, fruit gathering, weeding, and heavier farm work for the older boys), fruit canning, fruit conservation, and fuel gathering. The importance of this work will increase as the man-power problem increases.
IN addition to provision for the satisfaction of the child's needs for a feeling of emotional security through affection, a sense of status through appropriate assignments in war work, and a sense of achievement through acquiring useful skills and through other worth-while accomplishments, a parent should consider also the question of how to discuss the war with children. Some mothers would say, "Oh, it is too horrible. Why worry the child with something he can do nothing about?" These mothers may not permit the child to hear radio reports nor to read nor discuss the war news. Plausible as this practice may seem, child-guidance experts are fairly well agreed that children should be frankly told the realities of the war. To withhold war information is fraught with the same dangers as withholding sex information. The important consideration in either case is that attempts to "hush" the child's questions simply whet his curiosity, and there are always other children who will misinform the child whose mother refuses to inform him. One reason parents would withhold information is that they imagine the child will view events with a full realization of their seriousness, which they often do not. On the other hand, it is sometimes thought that the child will fear quite remote dangers more than he should. What the parent should do is to fit the news to the child's perspective. Reports of new invasions in Europe often meant to the child that the enemy was now on the next street about ready to invade his own playground and bedroom. In such cases, maps and careful explanations of distances and time of travel involved should be given. On the other hand, should actual danger approach, children should be realistically prepared for the worst. Children can bear a great deal if they are wisely prepared for it. They should be as well prepared as possible to help themselves and others should emergencies arise. This teaching should not be done with alarm nor in an atmosphere of panic and desperation, but in the cool, sensible manner in which one would prepare for any difficult undertaking. Then, it is even likely to be fun for the children.
Children respond more to their parents' attitudes than they do to the dangers themselves. A mother's anxiety untempered with reason will engender more fear in children than many real dangers. Children will usually stand up under trying situations as well, and only as well, as their parents. Children of all ages may be inclined to feel ashamed of their fears. They often taunt one another about their anxieties to the point that a child may learn to conceal his emotion. Fear may be both normal and serviceable a preparation of the body and mind to meet dangerous emergencies. Children's fears should be respected, and the child should be encouraged to discuss them in order that the parent may be guided in helping him to base his fears on truth and in teaching him how best to meet real emergencies. Don't ridicule a child's fears, but give him information that will make his fears serviceable rather than a hindrance to him. The first condition, of course, in the wise management of children's fears is the proper management of our own. This means intelligently facing realities.