Bend in the River
Iris Schow
WITH mathematical precision, Natalie Gibson eased her smart navy and red hat to a perky angle, bestowing on her reflection a fleeting yet critical inspection. "I really must dash, Mom," she asserted. "No time to talk about whether or not it's for my 'best good' to join your Relief Society." Snatching her purse and gloves, she terminated Mrs. Reed's protest with a quick kiss and almost ran out to her roadster.
Bessie Reed moved to the window, struggling to shape into a smile the lines of disappointment on her face as she watched her graceful blond daughter drive away. It hurt, being put off, left in the middle of what she wanted to say. She knew that she, in turn, was being watched by her own aged, almost helpless mother, who sat in a comfortable chair near the window.
"Another party!" said Grandma Fuller. "Natalie goes to so many, you'd think she couldn't help but tire of them."
"She isn't really the frivolous type, Mother," said Bessie mildly. She sat down and picked up her handwork mechanically. "It's just that Natalie doesn't know what to do with herself since Joel died. This continual gadding is her way of finding something to occupy her mind. She doesn't get any real satisfaction from it."
"I know. Haven't I been through the same thing myself?" Grandma Fuller leaned forward a little, speaking earnestly. "Why, when your father died, I felt lost, Bessie. Losing your husband changes the whole pattern of your existence. It's as if the river of your life had to make a great bend and strike a new course through strange woods and thickets. You feel unable to realize where you are going. But, of course, I had you six children to bring up and the farm to keep running. There wasn't much time to grieve, with a dozen tasks always staring me in the face."
"Sometimes I almost wish Natalie had to work to support herself and Ruth," said Bessie anxiously. "With her knowledge of home economics, she could fill a position with the Farm Bureau extension service, but Joel's interest in the Gibson Woolen Mills gives her an ample income. I had thought that if I could only get her to come with me to Relief Society, she might feel that she could make a real contribution to our studies, especially in nutrition. That would give her a more wholesome social interest. But you've seen the response I get...."
"She isn't unkind about it, just indifferent," pointed out Grandma Fuller.
"But indifference is so hard to overcome," Bessie stated wearily. "And now there's the Relief Society festival a big event to honor the beginning of the Society's second hundred years of service. We've worked and planned for this for weeks. All the sisters are to bring their daughters. When I think of sitting up there as secretary, without Natalie along, sometimes I feel that I just can't go through it...." Bessie's voice broke. She rose hastily, clinching her jaws together in a frantic effort to keep back the tears. "Well," she stated, attempting nonchalance, "I'll have to scat for the kitchen, or there'll be no dinner."
Left alone, Grandma Fuller sat very still, her wrinkled chin drooping toward her chest. She understood what her daughter had left unsaid; pride kept Bessie from urging Natalie to come to the Relief Society party "for the sake of mother." She respected that pride. If only Natalie could understand what membership in the Relief Society has meant to the women of our family since pioneer days, thought Grandma Fuller. If I could help her see how that glorious sisterhood has sustained us in our sorrows and prompted us to develop our best qualities in order to help others.... Once she realized these things, she would want to join.
Grandma Fuller's intent brown eyes did not see the pleasant residential street outside the window; she was looking back, down the avenues of memory. She thought of her mother, pregnant, jolting across the prairies toward Zion, forgetful of personal discomfort in her efforts to aid her "sisters in the Gospel." She remembered her own young womanhood, her discouraging life on the farm. Surely she would have given up to her longing for town life, but for the heartening example of the handful of Relief Society members out there. And Bessie, what would have sustained her back in 1917, when her sons had gone to war, if she had not shared in the faith and work of the sisterhood? Even now, it was largely because of the Relief Society activities that Bessie was so remarkably well-informed. Grandma Fuller's chin rose purposefully. The responsibility belonged to her as well as to Bessie. She would do her best to help Natalie understand.
NEXT morning while Natalie tidied the living room, Grandma Fuller related memories of the past. "I wasn't born till '56, two months after Pa and Ma reached the Valley," she said, "but my sister Minnie was quite a big girl when they crossed the plains. She used to tell me how one night when she was left alone in the wagon with Joey and Rube Pa and Ma were both tending the sick she woke up to find Ma peeling off the wagon cover in a regular downpour of rain. Ma needed it to shelter a sister who was having a baby their covered wagon was leaking badly. Well, with what help Minnie could give her, Ma took that cover down, in her condition, mind you. The children huddled together, while Minnie carried out Ma's directions to protect them as best she could with quilts and coats spread over boxes and the wagon seat. The sisters saved the mother and babe that night, with the help of the Lord, and Ma's children were none the worse for their exposure to the storm. That's what Relief Society meant then."
"Life must have been very hard in those days," murmured Natalie, the tenderness which had once characterized her expression crossing her face for an instant.
Inwardly welcoming this good sign, Grandma Fuller continued telling incidents which illustrated her own and Bessie's reasons for their devotion to the Relief Society. "And so for three generations," she concluded, "the women of our family have done whatever the Relief Society has requested. We have never overlooked an hour's service or missed giving a bushel of wheat that's been asked of us. And we've been well repaid, too, in increased usefulness and information and happiness. That's why I hope you won't pass up the Relief Society, Natalie. I feel sure it can mean as much to you as it has to any of us."
"Sweet old Grandma," said Natalie, giving her grandmother's shoulders an affectionate little hug, "sooner or later I'll join your Relief Society, of course. But there's no special rush. I have plenty of friends to keep my time occupied, and nobody here in the ward really needs my help. It isn't as if we were crossing the plains or settling the state. If real want and hardship should come, you know I'd do whatever I could to help. So don't trouble your pretty head about me." Natalie's blue eyes sparkled as she gave Grandma Fuller a twinkling smile that was disarmingly affectionate.
Grandma Fuller had not given up. "But, Natalie, on Tuesday there's the festival in honor of the beginning of Relief Society's second one hundred years. They're going to act out an original play. The first act is to show how the Society was organized back in Nauvoo in 1842. The other acts will show how the various lesson departments are conducted. There's to be an act about literature, and one about the work-and-business department they study about nutrition in this department and...."
"Yes, Grandma, Mom was telling us about it at the table the other day." Natalie's manner was still playfully affectionate.
"Why don't you go to it, Natalie?" Grandma Fuller asked eagerly. "Then you could see a sample of each lesson department, and you'd know how the Relief Society has kept up with the times. Why, Eva Brent Laine teaches the literary lessons now she's married, and she's a well-educated member of your generation, dear."
"Oh, Eva Brent," said Natalie, "literary lessons and dramatizations are her idea of fun, but I'm afraid I'd find them a little stuffy." Then, noticing Grandma Fuller's look of disappointment, she added appeasingly, "But I'll see. Maybe if I'm not too rushed by Tuesday...." She hurried away.
GRANDMA FULLER sensed that this was not a promise. By Tuesday morning she could see that Natalie had forgotten the conversation. She had related memories of some of her best experiences and spoken of her most sacred ideals, but she had failed to make Natalie see. Why? It was not as if Natalie were opposed to religion. She would have protested vehemently if her fourteen-year-old daughter Ruth had not been in regular attendance at Sunday school. Why had she not responded?
Grandma Fuller leaned back in her chair, apparently relaxed, but her mind was very busy. Suddenly she remembered the excuse Natalie had given. "Nobody here in the ward really needs my help," she had said. She thought that she was not needed. That was why she put off real duties in favor of trivial pleasures. But someone did need Natalie at the celebration. Grandma Fuller thought of Bessie's hurt look when she had spoken of going as an officer to help entertain the daughters, without bringing her own daughter.
Suppose Grandma Fuller told Natalie just how Bessie felt, could she resist this appeal? Once she saw the play and understood the comprehensive program of the Relief Society, once she entered the presence of this great sisterhood, would she not feel the spirit there and respond to it? Grandma Fuller resolved to try again.
Bessie was at the tabernacle, helping with the advance preparations for serving the refreshments that afternoon. Knowing her mother would be late for lunch, Natalie had prepared the meal. When she came to help Grandma Fuller walk to the dining room, the older woman decided to make a final appeal.
"Are you figuring on going to the Relief Society social this afternoon, Natalie?" Grandma Fuller's voice was steady, but inwardly she felt alarmingly timorous.
"I'm afraid I can't make it," said Natalie lightly. "Grace is giving a party for Roxie Phillips today, and I've promised to assist in serving. It's rather an important occasion. Some other time, I may...."
"Natalie, my dear," said Grandma Fuller distinctly, "I don't believe you understand what it will do to your mother if you stay away from the festival today. You see, every member is expected to bring her daughters, and since your mother is an officer, it will be very noticeable if you aren't there. Bessie won't say this to you; she wouldn't want me to. If you don't come of your own accord, she will stand up to it alone. But she needs you at her side today."
Natalie said nothing. Her facial muscles were strangely tense. Well, thought Grandma Fuller, I had to risk offending her. I must wait. I must be patient.
The old lady grasped the arms of her chair and summoned all her strength in an effort to rise. Natalie's competent, steadying hands came out to help her. The women moved slowly toward the dining room. Natalie broke the expectant silence.
"I hadn't thought of how it would look for Mother. I've just been thinking of myself, I guess, and hating to face the too hearty greeting I'd be sure to get from our ward president. I'm positive she'd be noxious and say, 'I'm so glad to see you out to meeting at last,' or she might even strike a gay note by saying, 'Well, well, Natalie, long time no see.' But I guess I can take it for once. Of course I'll go. They can always find someone else who wants to assist in serving."
As they entered the dining room Natalie was saying gaily, "And what time does this said Relief Society celebration start? I mustn't be late."
Ruth, who was filling the glasses, gesticulated impulsively with the water pitcher. Her brown eyes sparkled as she interrupted eagerly, "Oh, Momie, are you going? Well, that's just absolutely perfect. All the kids in our crowd are going with their mothers. Ethel coaxed me to come with her mother too, but I didn't think that would look so.... And, Momie, it starts at four o'clock, but I can make it after school."
Grandma Fuller gave thanks silently that Ruth, too, needed Natalie. But late in the afternoon, when they had gone to the tabernacle, leaving her alone, fears assailed her. Would Natalie think that going this once satisfied the whole need? Would she think it was a "stuffy" social? Would the influence of her present associates triumph? I have done all I can, thought Grandma Fuller, except one thing. She could not rise alone and kneel, but never had she uttered a more fervent plea. "Our Heavenly Father, please help Natalie know the importance of Thy work. When my parents crossed the plains, their real purpose was to help establish Thy Church and people here in Utah. For this they pressed on in spite of heat or storms, want or sickness. For this they grappled with the desert and made it fruitful. Now, if their descendants turn from the real spirit of Thy gospel and fail to carry on Thy work, by just that much the struggle of my parents is lost. I have tried my best to help Natalie understand. Now I ask Thy help, that her mind will be open, that she will see...." prayed Grandma Fuller in all humility. When she had finished, she felt very calm. It was easier now to wait.
RUTH appeared first. "Peachy time, Gran'ma Fuller; good eats! I served!" she called as she clattered upstairs. The others came in together. With the fatigued smile of one who has helped put over a successful festival, Bessie hastened away to change her best dress. Natalie perched on the arm of a chair.
"It was good seeing Ruth out with her crowd, Grandma; I'm glad I went." Natalie smiled reminiscently. "The solemn way those kids served everybody, and the innocent pranks they were pulling as they ate up the left-overs in the kitchen it was just like the fun I used to have when I went to the socials with Mom. I'm glad Ruth's best friends are Latter-day Saint girls."
This was all very well, but Natalie had not said what Grandma Fuller wanted most to hear. She waited anxiously.
"And the ward officers," continued Natalie, "didn't act a bit patronizing. They are so natural and sweet. Sister Stratt, the second counselor, and I got to talking about nutrition, and she asked me if I would prepare some talks and outlines on balanced diet, to give to the ward welfare workers. She has charge of the foods, you know, and there's such a lot to do. I'm going to help wherever I can, both in the Church welfare and the Relief Society. Isn't it surprising how the Church has kept up with the needs of the people under present conditions? I'm glad you sent me over to find out what the Relief Society really is doing!"
Natalie's smile was easy; the old tense expression was gone.
"Father, I thank Thee," whispered Grandma Fuller; "my grandchild has passed the bend in the river. The course of her life runs through verdant, productive land."
In Retrospect
President Amy Brown Lyman
Homesteading
BEING the daughter of a pioneer, it was quite appropriate for me to have the pioneering experience which came to me in the summer of 1911 when I helped to homestead a farm in the desert (virgin soil) in eastern Millard County near what is now Delta, Utah. My father-in-law, Francis M. Lyman, president of the Council of the Twelve, who had never used his homestead right, also participated in this project. He was enthusiastic about it, for his home for many years had been in Millard County. Both of these homesteads were located near the high and practically vertical banks of the Sevier River President Lyman's on one side of the river and ours on the other.
My husband pictured the proposed undertaking as a rare opportunity for us to acquire a farm under the reservoir which he, as chief engineer, had helped to construct. And besides, he thought it would be a most interesting experience, especially for me and the children, getting us out of the city and into the open country for a period. He regretted, of course, that his teaching at the University of Utah and his private engineering work would keep him in the city most of the time, but he assured us he would do his best to be with us each week end. Knowing my fear of being alone at night, even in our own home, and my fear of mice and snakes, especially of rattle snakes (one of which was killed near our tent), he promised to take along with us our young nephew-carpenter to protect me and the children and to construct our tent-house which would be made proof against flies, bugs, mice, and snakes. He said we would also be provided with good, comfortable beds, a coal-oil stove, and other necessities, and whatever conveniences could be provided in a tent. He explained that of course culinary water could not be provided on the place, but arrangement would be made to have it brought to us once each week in clean containers, and poured into a large barrel which, in order to keep the water cool, would be set part way into the ground.
Our family, which consisted of my husband, myself, two children, and our nephew, were on the ground with our horses and wagon and plow, ready to procure (seize) a tract of land at the very moment settlement on the reservation would be permitted. Promptly at twelve o'clock midnight, or the morning of the opening, the scramble began. After plowing around the tract of land (120 acres) which we had chosen, we began immediately to build our tent-house which had a tongue-and-grooved floor with lumber walls up to a height of about four feet. Above the boards was carefully fitted wire screen, and on top of all was placed the tent which was supported by a framework of timber. The canvas walls of the tent could be opened or closed, being cut at the corners up to the square. When closed, they were securely fastened to the wooden wall; and when open, these flaps, which were attached to horizontal poles, could be either rolled up or stretched out to form awnings. A second large canvas covering, six to eight inches above the tent proper, made the tent cool and was additional protection from rain.
The tent-house we felt was quite adequate and satisfactory, but we soon found that it would not protect us from the simoons or sandstorms which blew up often in this treeless and, except for the sagebrush, practically verdureless plain. After each of these storms, it was necessary to clean house to shake all the bedding and clothing and wash all the dishes and even then it seemed impossible to get rid of the sand. Aside from these special windstorms, there was nearly always enough breeze to put out the fire in the stove, making the stove almost useless for cooking. It was therefore necessary for me to dig a small trench outside the house, place a flat sheet iron over it, build a fire under this not an easy task and attempt to do my cooking there. The wind interfered even with this contraption, and after trying one whole day to cook a rabbit which had been given to us by a fellow homesteader, I decided to provide and to prepare food which required little or no cooking. We had to go to the country store, three or four miles away, for groceries and bread. All four of us would make the trip, because each was afraid to stay without the others in the tent-house on the homestead. We usually walked, which was no doubt good for us, because our little single-horse cart would not hold us.
We did not relish the drinking water very much, which was never very cool or appetizing; especially was this the case with me after I found my little Margaret one Monday morning, dipping into the barrel our sick dog's dish (an old sardine can) for a fresh drink for the dog. I immediately dipped off the top of the water, but it was necessary to use the rest, since the new supply did not come until the end of the week. Boiling the water, of course, made us feel much better about drinking it. The dog was a homeless, half-blind stray dog which had wandered into our camp. We couldn't drive him away because there was no place for him to go, so we allowed him to live with us and tried to help him regain his health.
Our nearest neighbor, Grandfather Lyman, came every few days to see how we were getting on. Another very interesting and welcome visitor who called on two occasions was a Relief Society worker, Mary M. Lyman, a resident of Delta, appointed the next year (1912) to serve as Relief Society stake president in the newly-organized Deseret Stake. She was a typical pioneer wife and mother, used to hardships and sacrifices, but blessed with seven fine children. She was also a typical product of the Church, and a devoted Church worker, true to her religious ideals and to the Gospel, and experienced in unselfish Church and community service. Although deprived of many of the opportunities and advantages of city living, her life was nevertheless rich and successful. A graduate of the old University of Deseret, where she made a fine record, and a constant, habitual reader, she was well informed. She always made time for serious study and for keeping up with current thought through books and magazines.
A visit with her in our tent-house in the desert was as interesting and informative as many I have had with women in important positions and in more pretentious places. What a debt of gratitude we all owe to our Church which emphasizes the teaching that the glory of God is intelligence and gives such rich opportunities for intellectual and spiritual development.
After two months, since nobody contested our right to the land, we were permitted under a desert entry to purchase the 120 acres at $1.25 per acre, and to return home.
Trip To California
In February, 1919, a rare treat came to my husband and me when President and Sister Grant invited us to accompany them to Los Angeles for a three-weeks' midwinter holiday at Deseret, the lovely, hospitable home which had for a number of years served as a vacation home for the President of the Church. President and Sister Anthony W. Ivins, always genial and interesting companions, were also members of the house party. Other dear and close friends to all of us, also visiting in Los Angeles at that same time, were Bishop and Sister Charles W. Nibley and Brother and Sister Franklin S. Richards, who joined us frequently at Deseret.
The visit was very pleasurable from first to last. It is an inspiration as well as a pleasure to be in the home of President and Sister Grant, for theirs has always been a home of refinement and a household of faith and devotion to the Gospel. And there could be no lovelier host and hostess. For guests in their home there is perfect freedom and ease, as the many can testify who have been entertained by them at their cottage in Brighton. For hospitality, generosity, and friendliness, they cannot be surpassed. Their hearts and homes have always been open to their friends. It has been the practice of their whole lives to share their pleasures with others. One cannot imagine President Grant seeking pleasure off by himself or for himself alone. His box in the old Salt Lake Theatre was always filled with friends, as was also his nine-passenger automobile, when a ride in an auto was a rare experience. This auto was one of the first to be owned in the State of Utah.
President Grant's days had been such busy and crowded ones since his succession to the Presidency of the Church the previous November (1918), that he was much in need of a rest. A vacation for the President of the Church, however, is almost impossible. During this "vacation" in California, President Grant was almost constantly holding interviews with business men and Church officials, but still he found a few free hours each day for relaxation, and he entered into his partial holiday with the same spirit, energy, and interest which was characterized all of the undertakings of his life.
The gentlemen of the party played golf each morning on week days while the ladies watched from the sidelines. In the afternoons we went for long rides about the country, and in the evenings we were occupied with callers in the home when there were no conferences or meetings to attend. One pleasant day followed another in quick succession, and this extremely happy visit ended all too soon.
HOMESTEAD TENT-HOUSE OF LYMAN FAMILY, MILLARD COUNTY, UTAH Left to right: Wendell B. Lyman (in cart), Margaret Lyman (Schreiner), the dog, Amy B. Lyman, Jean R. Driggs
Hawaiian Trip
When President and Mrs. Anthony W. Ivins visited the Hawaiian Mission in the summer of 1924, my husband and I were invited to accompany them. The other members of the party were their daughter Fulvia, now Mrs. Lawrence Sloan, and her schoolmate friend, Miss Bae Williams, daughter of President Clarissa S. Williams. It was the month of June and an ideal time for a trip on the great Pacific Ocean, which, after the first two days, was calm and peaceful. My diary speaks of the interest and enthusiasm of this party of six, "none of whom had previously visited the Islands, none of whom had ever had a sea voyage, and all of whom were thrilled with the prospects of a visit to this 'Paradise of the Pacific.'"
The usual six days were required for the voyage, at the end of which the party was received with that welcome, hearty and unique, such as only Hawaii can extend. Elder Eugene Neff was at that time president of the mission, Elder William Waddoups, president of the Temple, and Elder Antoine R. Ivins, manager of the great sugar plantation which was then owned by the Church. These brethren, with their charming and hospitable wives, and Elder Ralph Woolley, then chairman of the public utilities commission of the Territory and now president of the Oahu Stake, showed us every attention and saw to it that we did not miss anything of interest and importance. His wife, Romania Hyde Woolley, daughter of my precious friend and co-worker, Jeannette A. Hyde, was on the mainland at that time, but we had a happy visit to her lovely home upon invitation of her husband, President Woolley.
President Ivins and Doctor Lyman were soon extremely busy with Church business, and we were all busy attending mission and Relief Society conferences and other meetings, but with it we all found time to enjoy the many interesting sights and the unique social features provided for us by the Hawaiian people, who are so genial, gracious, unselfish, and hospitable.
We spent three weeks on the Islands one week at Honolulu, one at Laie in the old mission home near the Temple, and one on an inter-island trip. We found the missionaries on the Temple grounds busy with tourists, as sight-seeing buses and touring cars all stopped here to view this beautiful spot on the trip around the island of Oahu. Although we had read about Hawaii and her people and had heard much from our returned missionaries, there were many surprises for us. We had known that the mission was opened by George Q. Cannon in 1850 seventy-four years before but had not realized all that the Gospel has meant to the country as a whole, as well as to the Hawaiian people, one-third of whom were members of the Church. We found to our surprise that Hawaiians and Part Hawaiians together formed less than one-sixth of the population of the Islands at that time. Today, the proportion is even less, with 14,000 pure Hawaiians and 52,000 part Hawaiians composing about one-seventh of the present total population of nearly half a million. Making up the rest of the population are 160,000 Japanese, 150,000 whites, 52,000 Filipinos, 30,000 Chinese, and smaller numbers of several other groups.
The Latter-day Saint plantation school which was in operation at the time of our visit, but which has since been absorbed into the public school system, was a typical example of the variety of races in a given group. The school was taught by our women missionaries. "There were 170 pupils in attendance, made up of the following races: Hawaiian, Japanese, Samoan, Puerto Rican, Chinese, Filipino, American, Tongan, Spanish, Filipino-Spanish, Hawaiian-Irish, Hawaiian-American, Hawaiian-Chinese, Hawaiian-Japanese, Hawaiian-Samoan, Hawaiian-Indian, English-Hawaiian-Chinese-Spanish, Chinese-Hawaiian-Norwegian. There were also some Negro-Hawaiian-Irish, Portuguese, and Korean children in the neighborhood near the plantation, who did not attend day school, but who came occasionally to Sunday School."
Since the recent tragedy at Pearl Harbor, the attention of the whole world has been focused on this group of twelve islands and their importance to the United States proper, for they form the junction of most of the steamer routes across the Pacific, and are in reality the "key to the Pacific" and the "gateway to the Orient."
Our anticipations with respect to such a trip with such delightful traveling companions had been great, but the realization was even greater. It was a pleasure and a real privilege to be so closely associated with President and Sister Ivins whose lives and experiences had been so rich. A great reader and an expert and charming story-teller, President Ivins entertained and thrilled us during those long and pleasant days on the ocean, and everywhere his love of nature, including human nature, was evident during our stay in the Islands. He was invited by the captain of the ship to speak at the Sunday services both going and coming, and his addresses were listened to with rapt attention by his fellow passengers.
Experience in State Legislature
Being elected to and serving in the state legislature is an interesting experience. Early one morning in the fall of 1922, I was called on the telephone by my close personal friend, Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, national Republican committeewoman from Utah, who asked if I would be willing for my name to come before the Republican convention that afternoon as a candidate for the House of Representatives. This was a great surprise to me, for while I had always been interested in public affairs and had rarely missed an opportunity to vote, I had taken no active part in politics. She told how the women had worked half of the night before at a caucus in order to get the approval of the male members to place the names of a few women on the list to be presented to the convention the next day. I consulted my husband and a few friends, who saw no reason for my refusing, so I complied with the request.
After receiving the nomination, I found that there were certain responsibilities I must assume at once. First, there was a campaign contribution to make. Next, I was expected to help with the campaign itself by going wherever I was sent, both early and late in the day, to speak before political meetings. To me this was a very difficult task. I found that I was expected to point out the virtues of one party and the weaknesses of the other, and to answer questions and arguments of all sorts. When I heard the chairman of the women's division of the National Democratic Party at the Women's Centennial held in New York in 1940, assert that one reason why women have not been advanced more rapidly politically is because "they have not been willing to take the rough and tumble of a political campaign," I readily agreed with her.
It was soon evident to me that I was not very well informed with respect to politics and political procedures, and not sufficiently familiar with the issues of the campaign to speak very intelligently upon them, so I decided to talk mostly about women. I called attention to the fact that since leadership is always scarce and since the supply had been increased by the emancipation of women, we should look among women's groups for new leaders, especially in certain fields; that women are a great asset to any humanitarian cause because they have a special and different viewpoint, which is based on their experience as mothers and homemakers; that their ability as directors and administrators is often apparent when they are left widows and therefore are required to manage their own business and family affairs; that they are especially needed in legislative bodies where the laws are made because of their special knowledge of human needs and humanistic rights. I held that men, who must provide for their families and for the development of communities, are naturally and necessarily interested in lands, mines, flocks, herds, property ownership and rights, and property protection, while women are inclined to think more about education, health, recreation, morals, and character; also, that most of the social legislation of late years has had behind it the influence of the mothers of the nation, and therefore legislative bodies should not be made up entirely of men; that there should be enough women to foster and secure necessary humanitarian social action.
There were, in the 1923 session of the legislature, four women in all one in the Senate, and three in the House. We were all treated very courteously, we were shown great respect by the male members, and we received appointments on important committees. I was made chairman of the public health committee, vice-chairman of the education committee, and a member of the labor and appropriations committees. I had the honor and great satisfaction of introducing in the House the bill which provided for the acceptance by the State of Utah of the Federal provision for maternity and infancy care, known as the Sheppard-Towner bill. The provisions of this act made it possible to promote the fine programs later adopted in many of the states which pointed out the needs throughout the country for better care for mothers and babies, and with which program the Relief Society branches in the Western States cooperated by helping to equip and operate well-baby and health clinics using the interest on the wheat fund for this purpose. As a result of this awakened interest, the infant and maternity death rates were greatly reduced.
I also had the pleasure of promoting the measure which authorized and empowered the regents of the University of Utah and the board of trustees of the Utah State Agricultural College to assist the faculty members in these institutions to procure old-age annuities.
My experience in the legislature gave me a greater respect and admiration for women in public life than I had had before. I found them conscientious and honorable. I found that they voted according to their own convictions, that they could not be intimidated or coerced, and that they would not accept bribes of any kind. I found women as willing and as able to work as men, often more open-minded than men, less involved with promises, and equally painstaking.
Paid lobbyists and promoters are on hand at every session of the legislature to try to persuade, intimidate, and bribe legislators. They send gifts of various kinds and do everything possible to put legislators under obligation to them so that they can influence the voting. I am firmly convinced that any legislative body is benefited by the presence of good and able women.
GROUP OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ON ROADSIDE, KONA, HAWAII Left to right, standing: Elder Henry J. Dehaun, President Eugene J. Neff, Elder Walter N. Steffens, Elder William W. McCune, Elizabeth S. Ivins, President Anthony W. Ivins, Fulvia Ivins, Bae Williams, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, Vilate Ivins, Amy B. Lyman. Kneeling in front is a group of Hawaiian children.
First Counselor in General Presidency
In , with the reorganization of the General Presidency of the Relief Society and the General Board, I was called to be first counselor to President Louise Y. Robison, in which capacity I served for eleven years, or until . Two of these years, however, were spent in the mission field where I directed the women's work of the European mission.
While a counselor to Sister Robison, I was chiefly engaged in directing and conducting social welfare institutes, and in collecting data for and preparing the Handbook of the Relief Society, which was published by the General Board in 1931. I was appointed by President Williams to perform this task and her parting wish was that the work be not delayed, since it had been her ambition for many years to have prepared a "ready reference" on Relief Society work.
In the institute work, which was conducted in most of the stakes of the Church, I was assisted from time to time by the following named sisters who, in the order named, served as supervisors of the Relief Society Welfare Department: Cora Kasius, Genevieve Thornton, Annie D. Palmer, and Amy W. Evans. In the preparation of the Handbook I was assisted by Annie Wells Cannon, then a member of the General Board, and by Vera White Pohlman, now the general secretary of the Relief Society and formerly assistant to the general secretary.
Sister Robison first came to the General Board as second counselor to President Williams in 1921. In this capacity she served seven years, until her appointment as general president. During that time she was the active manager of the Burial Clothes Department, where she served efficiently, and where she met and comforted the bereaved and sorrowing. While chairman of the teachers' message committee in 1926-1927, she led out in a beautification campaign which stimulated this work throughout the whole organization.
As general president, Sister Robison spent full time in the Relief Society office, and in addition to her duties and responsibilities as president she acted not only as manager of the Burial Clothes Department but also as manager of the Magazine, and from 1934 to 1939 as manager of the Welfare Department also. During her administration, Relief Society choruses and choirs were specially featured and developed, and today, under the designation of "