Three Styles or Textures of Musical Composition Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen Relief Society General Board Member ? RHYTHM, as pointed out in a previous article, completely satisfied primitive man's need for physical expression. Stories were told through dancing; bodily gestures and maneuvers were used to depict past experiences or oncoming events; drums were beaten hard and fast to produce noise and excitement. Crude vocal utterances may also have been associated with the noise. It took a long time before such crudeness could be tempered to any degree of refinement. Finally, when that point was reached, rhythm alone proved inadequate as a means of self-expression. The mental powers within man had begun to awaken and assert themselves; therefore, other mediums of expression were needed. It is not surprising that melody, a product of thought, should. Be the next element, to be ushered in. Melody as we know it in our day, having undergone the polishing of centuries, comes to us as a chain of beautifully harmonious and refined sounds. In the early ages melody was crude. And unrefined in sound and was rendered in a sort of monotonic chant. Its growth was naturally slow, but in time another tone found its way into the chant, which gave it a little more variety. Then a third: tone was added, and later a fourth. There was now enough variety of pitch to develop and extend musical thought. The ancient Greeks took cee Page 570 four tones as the basis of their scales and called them "tetrachord." ("Tetra" means four, having four parts.) Incidentally, our major scale is made ? by combining two of these tetrachords. In the course of time, the idiom which had sufficed for the musical expression of the people reached the point of exhaustion?or so it seemed. There was not so much the need of new material, however, as there was the need of new and different ways in which to use the material already available. The old familiar axiom, "Necessity is the mother of invention," was found to be true. Man's inventive urge led him into the field of experimentation. Here he discovered interesting things pertaining to music. As his ingenuity and skill increased, the tedium of rhythmic and melodic monotony decreased. Rules were formulated which gave a rather definite working knowledge of how to proceed with these newly found theories. Experiments proved that by following certain rules a melody could be started, and then very shortly after, at a specified place, this same melody could be brought in again and produce a very pleasing effect. In this way melody became its own ? support?when two or more different melodies were used in a certain prescribed way, each one became a support and strength to the other. This was the simple beginning of what later proved to be a real scientific era for music, an era which produced some truly great and outstanding musicians who left us a rich background on which to build. There are three styles or textures of musical composition: monophonic, polyphonic, and homophonic. Monophonic ("Mono" means one, and "phonic" means sound.) In music, monophonic refers to a single melody line unaccompanied. It is the oldest, as well as the simplest, of all music. "For countless ages the world was satisfied with this species of music, the division of music into parts being scarcely more than 700 years old." Chinese music is still of the monophonic style. While we speak of monophonic music as the simplest of the three styles, we must not be misled into thinking that it is trivial and that it presents no difficulties to the performer. Slow, sustained singing is the most difficult of all singing, and when done without the support of an accompaniment presents many problems. Many of the early composers made valuable contributions 'toward the perfecting of the monophonic style. St. Ambrose, who lived between 333 and 397 A. D., considered the founder of the music of the Catholic (Church, arranged the musical service according to his own ideas. He wrote many hymns and chants which were identified with his name. The Ambrosian chant was sung on one tone with a rising or falling inflection at the end of lines or verses. It conformed to the natural rhythm of speaking or of text reading. Gregory, the Great, as he was called, born about 54o A. D., pope from 590 to 604, changed and tearranged the music of the Catholic Church. The chant was made to conform to his thought of a sacred service. It was slowed down in thythm, and the natural word speaking was given less prominence. Long, sustained tones, he considered, were more effective for a large unison choir than the short ones, and better represented the solemnity of a church service. 'The Gregorian chant, as it was called, made use of more tones than had previously been used. There was also the breaking away from the custom of having a syllable for each tone. Thus, a succession of tones were often sung on a single syllable giving the melody greater smoothness. With each innovation the scope of singing was extended, and sacred music was given a deeper and more profound dignity. The Gregorian chant is the best example of finely developed, monophonic melody that we have in our Western music. George Frederick Handel has suggested the monophonic style in some of his composition. | Instruments have been used; but they play only the melody part with the voice and add the octave either above or below. The bass solo, "The People that Walked 'in Darkness," from The Messiah, and the aria part of the bass solo, "Col raggio placido," (With Placid Ray) from his opera Agrippina, Closely follows this single melody style. There are very few harmony chords used in either composition. Polyphonic ("Poly" means many? thus many sounds or voices.) In polyphonic music two or more THREE STYLES OR TEXTURES OF MUSICAL COMPOSITION 571 572 independent melodies are played or sung at the same time. 'This treatment of melodies is called contrapuntal music. The word "counterpoint" is more or less a familiar term to those who have had music training, especially those who have studied the piano or organ. In the days before our system of notation was perfected, musical sounds were represented by points. 'The word "counterpoint" was derived from the Latin words "punctum contra punctum," meaning "point against point," or as we would define it, "note against note." | In counterpoint one melody is supported by another melody, not chords, which would give us_harmony. It is read horizontally, line following line, as contrasted to harmony which we read and analyze vertically. 'There is the possibility that as early as the tenth century attempts were made to bring in additional vocal parts. It may have happened that a singer whose voice was low in pitch could not reach the tones of the melody which was sung by the group, so started at another pitch, likely a fourth or fifth lower, and carried the melody through in this way. Or it may have been that a. High voice wished to sing in a range that better fitted his voice. Whether or not it came as an accidental happening, the music-minded men had been searching diligently for just such an event and welcomed it when it came. The main melody or song tune used was called "cantus firmus." When it appeared with its succession of parallel fifths or fourths and octaves, it took the name of "organum," and later the name of "discantus." This arrangement ? of music parts, with the addition of an extra interval or so, sufficed for 1000 years. The intervals of the fourth, the fifth, and the octave have regularly been chosen by untrained ears as the most natural and pleasant-sounding intervals of the scale. Two names are important in this first movement towards combining vocal parts: Hucbald (840 to 930), and Guido of Arezzo (995 to 1050). Both were profound scholars. Polyphonic music was the only kind used up until the seventeenth century, and even extended beyond that. During this time it was developed into a powerful and scientific medium of musical expression, a medium which is very difficult to grasp on first hearing and one which seldom attracts the attention of the layman. Its interest grows, however, with repeated hearings. The beautiful weaving of the different parts becomes intensely fascinating to the one who is able to follow the intricate interlacing of the parts. There is no better training for vocalists or instrumentalists than the study of contrapuntal music. Homophonic ("Homo" means sounding alike; sameness of sound; unisonous. ) This definition might confuse one with that of monophonic inasmuch as they both emphasize the single melody line. In monophonic music the melody is complete within itself. Homophonic has reference to music having for its basic structure the element of chords. The general characteristic of monophonic and polyphonic music is lineal?horizontal; that of homophonic is vertical. Thus monophonic and polyphonic music are fundamentally melody; homophonic music is principally chordal, coloristic by nature, or accompaniment to a melody. Homophonic music was unknown until the end of the sixteenth century. All music preceding that time was monophonic or polyphonic. 'The early Italian opera composers were the inventors of the homophonic style. They were fundamentally great melodists and wanted the beauty of their melodies to be undisturbed by the entrance of other melody lines. The homophonic style, too, was thought a better medium 'and dramatic fervor. Through which to express emotional It was easily conceived and was direct in its appeal and thus presented practically no listening problems at all. It is the type of music with which we are most familiar. We come in contact with it in most of our present-day music. Hymns, folk-songs, chorales (small species), solos, etc., are written in this style. Good examples. Of homophonic music are Handel's "Largo," "Ave Verum" by Mozart, "Pilgrim Chorus" by Wagner, and "A Legend" by Tschaikowsky. <A wealth of harmonic coloring can be displayed through this medium of writing. Erratum: The poem at the beginning of the article "The Lure of Melody," by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, published in the issue of the Magazine was from "Abt Vogeler" by Browning instead of "Ben Ezra" as credited in the Magazine. A GIVE US THIS DAY Vesta P. Crawtord As you knead and turn the bread, Remember wheat, the shining grain, Think of bright metallic waves That stretch across the plain; Think of furrows in the sun And the bearded wheat in head, Recall the granary and the seed As you mold and turn the bread. Pray to God that everywhere Men may garner in the field, Let the sheaves be bound again? Give the world another yield! THREE STYLES OR TEXTURES OF MUSICAL COMPOSITION 573 <NUBy