Visiting Seachers ) Messages To The Home Lesson 2 Reverence as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, November 3, 1942) TO be truly reverent, one must respect, love, and obey God with a deep feeling of awe and wonder. Reverence implies that we, the created, are in the presence of Him, the Creator. When we stand on the ocean beach and look out over the vast body of water, we are filled with awe. Similarly when we consider the - beauties of nature in rock and plant or when we are in contact with the great mystery of life all around us, we marvel. What wonder we feel as we view the beautiful flowers and fruit, and contemplate that a tiny seed contained within it the power to draw from the soil sufficient nourishment of the right kind to develop into a shrub of different colors bearing seeds which have in them exactly that same force and pattern. Our bodies, too, are marvels of construction to us. What we know of the wonders of creation should increase our reverence for the unknown. Reverence for God and for all that he has brought into being is one of the essentials of a fine character. There can be no doubt about that. There have always been special places set apart for worship, places that have been dedicated to the Lord. Usually they are called "Houses of the Lord." These houses should be held sacred and holy so His spirit will abide there. In the early days of the Church He commanded the Saints to "build a house unto me," and the answer was the Kirtland Temple. In the case of the ancient Israelites, first the Ark was built and then a temple; in the case of the Nephites and of the Latter-day Saints, the temple again. They are special houses of the Lord. But our meetinghouses, or chapels, are also dedicated to God as special places of worship. They are therefore His houses, too, for in them we learn of His greatness and love. They are sacred for another reason. In the principal meeting held there, the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is administered?the most sacred ordinance known to us, for it is symbolical of His suffering and death for us. There are many ways in which reverence may be expressed. Some of these are by quiet serenity, profound awe, silence, a song, or instrumental music. But beneath the outward expression of true reverence is the spirit of reverence, and that is what is most important, after all. Discussion 1. What blessing may one obtain by attending religious services in a reverent spirit? 2. What physical conditions in our churches contribute to this spirit? 3. Why does faith in God lead to reverence for Him and His creations? 4. How does the example of older people affect children in their reverence for sacred places? Page 577 Work -andGustaiass New-Fashioned Thrift Lesson I PEACE vs. WARTIME HABITS (For optional use on Tuesday, October 13, 1942) UR national emergency is creating many problems. Home life is being disrupted and families are moving from one part of the country to another. As every American household adjusts quickly and intelligently to new surroundings and circum- 'stances, new habits of thrift and economy will take the place of waste and careless spending. An era of abundance is giving way to an era of scarcity. Limited supplies and transportation facilities will gradually force every one to live closer to the level of necessities and change materially his tastes and habits of living. Materials vital to the war are used more or less in every home. Steel, aluminum, rubber, copper, and tin head the list. Homemakers will materially aid the defense effort by exercising care in the use of equipment made of these materials. Many pet theories will be discarded and simpler and more scientific methods of conservation will be adopted. Saving by sharing, a virtue practiced long ago, may be a new experience to many in these days. Each person or family who shares his commodities makes less the immediate demand on industry for these commodities for civilian use and at the same time develops habits of friendliness and neighborliness which will no doubt endure beyond the war emergency. Almost everyone will have to adPage 578 just to changes in their habits of transportation. The automobile has come to be a necessity rather than a luxury. It has been used for many purposes?for taking men and women to their work, housewives to the grocery store, children to school, and the family to the movies. Already its use is being greatly curtailed, and as a result buses and trains are becoming overcrowded. Facilities in urban communities will no doubt become more strained, and people from the farms will be obliged to make fewer trips to town. More walking will be in order, which means good exercise and better health. Notwithstanding necessary restrictions in travel, leisure time activities and vacation habits need not be curtailed. As worries and confusion increase, it becomes increasingly necessary for people to have recreation. We have a wartime obligation to keep fit, efficient, and competent. Home entertaining can supply much of the needed recreation. Careful planning can provide relaxation that will refresh both body and mind. A picnic in the backyard, in a nearby grove, on the banks of a stream, or even in the kitchen, to which neighbors and friends have been invited, can be a memorable occasion. Refreshments need not be expensive to be satisfying and attractive. Bringing the family together where they can help cook a meal, sing songs LESSON DEPARTMENT around an open fire, or splash in an old swimming pool can be a wholesome and happy event. Eating habits are also due for changes, but family meals must not suffer. 'The national nutrition program now underway should result in balanced diets and a better fed people. Due to the war, there are fewer supplies of some canned foods. Less tin cans with fewer sizes will be available. The old soup kettle and bean pot will return to help in the new thrift program. With sugar rationing now in effect and rationing of other foods likely, more fresh and dried fruits and vegetables and more dairy products will be used. The health and well-being of the family depends in large measure upon the choice of food. It is hoped and expected that those who can, will produce enough of the protective foods, such as fruits, vegetables, eggs, and milk, to care for the needs of all. In places where weeds thrived, victory gardens are now growing. The market basket should evidence changed buying practices. What in peacetime was casual pastime, now becomes a serious responsibility. One trip to market should take the place of several. A complete list of everything needed should be made before making the shopping trip, and enough provisions should be purchased for the week, if possible, instead of for three or four days. Purchasers should ask to have delivered, 579 on the regular schedule, only those things that cannot be carried. Markets should be better known and purchasers should not trust too much to shopping via telephone. They should know how to buy by grade or label rather than by the ten cents worth. Clothing should be bought according to the kind of wardrobe best suited to the needs of the family, with consideration being given to that which will wear a reasonable length of time and will still be attractive. Instead of throwing away clothes when they are a bit worn, or silk or nylon stockings when the first thread breaks, carefully mend these; remodel clothing if necessary; freshen by sponging and pressing, and then enjoy wearing it for months to come. Checking over the list of things one intends to buy for himself to see how many items he can do without is good practice. Everyone needs to save, to share, to sacrifice, to make adjustments. To do this and still be cheerful is one of the biggest contributions one can make toward the high ideals of life we have long struggled to maintain. Questions for Discussion 1. How has your family curtailed the use of the automobile? 2. Have you changed any of your shopping habits? 3- In what other ways can you visualize that we may have to change our habits to fit in with the war program? TS itensieut The Bible As Literature. Lesson 2 BACKGROUND OF THE BIBLE (Tuesday, November 17, 1942), (Class leaders should constantly keep in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature, and makes no attempt at theological problems. ) Objective: To present significant characteristics of the geography of the Holy Land and to point out the effect of natural surroundings upon a people and their literature. Lesson Topics 1. The geography of the Holy Land. 2. The influences of the natural background upon the life and literature of the Hebrew people. Geography of the Holy Land John Kelman in his interesting book on the Bible says that a journey through the Holy Land is a sort of sacramental event in a person's life. "Spiritual things are very near to us, and we feel that we have a heritage in them; yet they constantly elude us and need help from the senses to make them real and commanding. 'That is why a journey through the land of the people who gave us divine literature is such a sacred event." Since most of us do not have the privilege of taking such a journey, we must substitute for it as best we can. Anything that will help the senses make the experiences recorded in the Bible "real and commanding" should be brought to our aid. The more vividly we see the Holy Land itself and understand its geoPage 580 graphic influences upon the lives of the people who recorded the Bible, the more certainly will this scripture be received with understanding and appreciation, and the more convincing will the Christian faith become. The coloring of a country is important in giving a lasting impression of it. We remember this general aspect as the background against which we see other more important features of the country. The coloring of the Holy Land is unusual. We are told that its edge lines are traced in faint shades of varied hues, and that there are strata forming rich brown bands. Other bands are dark red, purple, yellow, and black. The lower strata are a dominant gray with a bluish tinge, to which the colored bands give a startling decorative appearance. Not only is the color of the earth itself remarkable, but so also is that of the vegetation. Judea is said by travelers to be almost indescribable in its coloring. On the south is the fertile valley of Hebron with a wealth of orchards and plantations, north of which the Valley of Samaria winds among rounded hills with vine-covered terraces topped with olive trees. In this part LESSON DEPARTMENT of the country, the dominating green of the vegetation is broken by patches of dove-colored clay and varie- _ gated stones. The plains of Samaria are often covered with a yellow mist which makes their natural red color seem to resemble a field of blood. This is a memorable phenomenon, since these plains have been the great battlefield of the Eastern World; time and again the ground has been drenched with blood. In Galilee, according to travelers, the color of the limestone formation is intensified by the blueness of the sky, giving a frosted silver effect, especially when the sun strikes the clouds about the white Hermon Mountains covered with snow. Phoenicia, in the main, is also white, though in its higher valleys unusual rocks break through rich, dark soil. These rocks are eggshaped and a beautiful deep crimson. Tyre, at harvest time, is said to be truly wonderful in color with its yellow grain fields below cliffs as white as marble. In some parts of Syria the delicate colors?yellowish, bluish, greenish hues?are said to appear to have been put on thc landscape in thin washes. In other parts, the colors, usually in horizontal stripes, run in vertical strata, spread out like a vast Indian shawl made with cunningly interwoven red and green threads. Even the bodies of water differ in color, the Sea of Galilee being light blue and the Dead Sea light green. John Kelman says: " 'Spiritual' describes the faint dreamlike mountains in the extreme distance from Syrian vistas. East of the Jordan the | colors are grey, blue, and lilac. Wild flowers (iris or the lilies of the field) 581 ' form a carpet near the villages in the spring." He says that the flowers of the Holy Land are of every color; there are scarlet poppies, crimson anemones, blue corn flowers, yeliow marigolds, and white narcissus (the rose of Sharon). Even the animal life conforms to the general dainty color scheme. Lizards, for instance, everywhere take on the color of tl. Eir environment. They may be stone grey, red, or cream. Chameleons and tortoises also adapt their coloring to things around them. They are blue at sulphur springs, brown or slate when on the muddy banks. Whagjever there is one of the couptless springs in the Holy Land, there is the brilliant green of the oasis. 'The Jordan Valley has been compared to a green serpent crawling between pale mountains. "Lamascus is a bewitching city of white, seemingly resting on a carpet of dark green velvet, jeweled with minarets of many hues. Stretching out from it are paler and paler shades of rose and yellow, blending into tlie lilac of the hills." The sun acts as a magician upon Syria. "It makes the mica, which bespangles some parts of the country, gleam like jewels; it throws up bold contrasts of strong light and shadow and at sunset sends a crimson flush on the olive groves and turns the white cliffs to a flesh-colored marble." Palestine, located in Southwestern Asia, is bounded on the west by the Mediterranean Sea, on the north by the Lebanon Mountains, and on the south and east by the desert. It is a small area, containing only 10,000 square miles. It is 140 miles long and about fifty miles wide. One writer says you could lose it in many of the counties of Texas, and that 582 standing on the Mount of Olives just outside of Jerusalem one can see the Mediterranean on the west, and the Dead Sea and the River Jordan on the east. From "Dan to Beersheba" is not as far as from New York to Washington. The Mount of Olives is about one-third as high as Mount Timpanogos in Utah Valley which stands 11,957 feet above sea level. Though the Holy Land has bulked so large in history and religion, it is not as large as Rhode Island., George H. Armstrong says: "In its physical configuration Palestine is an epitome of the whole world." The great variety of climate and natural features produces a corresponding diversity in the plant and animal life. There are said to be 113 species of mammals, 348 of birds, 91 of reptiles and Amphibia, and more than 3,000 kinds of flowering plants. Is it any wonder that one of the striking literary characteristics of the Bible is its beautiful figures of speech drawn from nature? In many ways this country is a land of contrasts. It is shut off from the rest of the world, yet the great highways of the East pass through it. On the south and the east the desert borders it like a wall of insulation, as does the almost unnavigable Mediterranean on the west. Besides these natural barriers, it. Has many mountains with deep, abrupt gorges which make intercourse very difficult. Yet it held within its confines the highest civilization of the Old World. The Influence of the Natural ? Background Upon the Character of the Hebrew People In a study of any great literature ? in which human beings are revealed in their relationships to each other and to their physical world, the natural background of the story or drama is important. The influence of geography upon the destiny of the Chosen People is particularly striking. The smallness of the land and its isolation developed characteristics among the Hebrew people important to their contribution to the world. Had Palestine taken on ordinary cosmopolitanism, had it been subject to closer contact with influences that would have made it narrow, stubborn, and inhospitable, the story of the Chosen People would have been vastly different. In Chapter III of The English Bible as Literature, Mr. Dinsmore discusses most interestingly the influences of the surroundings upon the literature of the Chosen People. He shows how the strength of the hills, the tang of the upland air, the broad horizons energized the wills, stimulated the imaginations, shaped the character of the Hebrew people; how religious beliefs and expressions were natural under the circumstances; how inbreeding and the ? discipline of earlier years of nomagic life developed a virile people able to perform the task God had given them. The isolation of the Latter-day Saints, God's chosen people of modern times, there in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, presents a significant analogy. Could the Latterday Saints have worked out their unique destiny had they not in those important, formative years of the early existence of the Church been separated from the rest of the world? Does this thought perhaps throw a new light upon the persecutions LESSON DEPARTMENT which drove them into isolation? Dr. Philo Buck in The Golden Thread says: "The early Hebrew prided himself upon his desert origin and mode of life. He was a Bedouin who could not forget the aristocracy of the desert nomad.... By a fortunate series of circumstances he was later forced against the great trade route between Babylonia and Egypt and thus brought into contact with old and settled cultures of the world.... It was a fortunate site these Children of Israel chose, but one of deadly danger; for they must be strong to hold their position; and as wars between Egypt and Babylonia were not infrequent, the Hebrews learned the misery of a small buffer state between two powerful rivals. Palestine was the Belgium of the Near East." Doctor Buck continues with an interesting account of the climb to national greatness of the Hebrews, their short but brilliant period of national superiority. He shows how the political and economic changes through which they passed because the motive for much of their best literature. But he also emphasizes the fact that through their entire history the Hebrews never forgot the isolation of their desert origin and the simplicity of their life then, during which time they developed their great personal loyalty to the Hebrew God, Yahweh. "Kings and a landed aristocracy and the luxury of the settled life and the new impact of the surrounding Paganism were ever felt to be a stain on the original purity of the desert manners. Luxury was always synonymous with sin." They considered themselves a people "set apart." In like manner are we urged to consider ourselves, if we are to per- 583 form the work of the Lord has given us the privilege of doing. We, as they, must not forget our heritage which has made us "a peculiar people," a people "set apart" from the rest of mankind for a very special mission. The Bible reveals the unfoldment of the people and shows the influence of geography upon that unfolding "way of life.' Doctor Buck says: "Their finest poetry is always inspired, not by the ways of men, but by the majesty of nature and its mystery." Following is one of the many examples which might be quoted: "The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, And night unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no speech nor language, Where voice is not heard. Their line is gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world." ?(igth Psalm) We see the influence of environment upon the poetic imagination when the singer turns from the burning heat to the comfort of the oasis and the running brook: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He leadeth me beside the still waters, He restoreth my soul." ?(23rd Psalm) This brief discussion has attempted two things: to give some idea of the physical features of the Holy Land, and to indicate that the geography of a country influences the life of the people and the literature they produce. Lesson Helps 1. Display maps of the Holy Land and point out geographic features prominent in Biblical literature. 2. If possible make a collection of pictures showing the people and typical activities of early life in Palestine. Perhaps someone who has visited the Holy Land can be presented to discuss the country and the customs typical of Hebrew life. 3. Discuss the influence of environment upon the character and personality of different peoples. Illustrate with examples from the Hebrews and the Latter-day Saints. 4. Read excerpts from Bible poetry to show the influence of natural surroundings upon literature. ? References Dinsmore, C. A., The English Bible As Literature, Chapter III. Alder, Lydia D., The Holy Land. Fulleylove and Kelman, The Holy Land, Painted and Described (Beautifully Illustrated). Carpenter, Frank George, The Holy Land and Syria. Armstrong, George H., How to Know the Bible. James, Baike, Living Stories of the Bible. (This has lovely colored pictures revealing the physical background and the people in action. ) % Social Science What "America" Means LESSON 2 (Tuesday, November 24, 1942) OUR HERITAGE "Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set." HEN we think of our English forebears who settled the | shores of America in the seventeenth century, there come to our minds the two colonies: Virginia and Plymouth. The first permanent English settlers in the Western World landed at Jamestown in 1607, and a later group of "adventurers," the Pilgrim fathers, were driven by chance of wind and ways to land on the coast of Massachusetts. 'They received the royal promise of freedom to worship God as they pleased. Thus was established the beginning of England's colonial empire in the (Proverbs 22:28) New World; and the local self-government of the people in their small towns and communities was destined to develop the American commonwealth. As we Americans come to see the value and importance of our country, its beauty, and the ideals and heritage of the people, we discover that the roots of our civilization are elemental traits?good will, neighborliness, courage, tolerance, openminded inquiry, patience. A people rich in these qualities will develop art, science, industry, government. These finer underlying traits are ac- LESSON DEPARTMENT quired in the intimate, friendly world of the family and the small community. "It is the seedbed of society," as a writer in the Atlantic Monthly recently pointed out, and "only as such traits have opportunity to grow in the kindly, protective shelter of family and small communities, where there is intimate acquaintance and mutual confidence, do they become vigorous and mature enough to survive." Naturally, the soil had to be conquered, and agriculture was the first industry developed. The chief product was corn, the cultivation of which was learned from the Indians. It became the staple product of the colonists; it is the staple product of America today. Agriculture meant the conquest of the soil, and during our entire pioneer history the work of subduing the wilderness continued with fervor. Agriculture has been the basis of our material lives, and upon the foundation so securely laid the nation has erected its superstructure of industrial and cultural life. From the beginning of human history, man has tilled the ground, and an old Persian proverb says: "He who sows corn, sows righteousness." We read in the Bible that Elijah's home was in the remote districts of Gilead, and he found his successor, Elisha, in northern Israel plowing with twelve yoke of oxen. The Hebrew race was one of the rugged, virile sort produced on the farm, tilling the soil, planting the vine, following the sheep?all of which added to their love of God. The subject of "Our Heritage" is made doubly interesting because of the many foodstuffs that were given to our forebears by the American In- 585 dians. American archaelogists tell us that our debt to the Indians for their gift to civilization of maize and many other foods is something that Americans should greatly appreciate. In a little book of big accomplishments, called appropriately Givers of Life, Emma Franklin Estabrook of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, gives us arresting facts. She quotes Doctor Spinden: "The annual value to this country alone of food plants, forty-five in all, brought to cultivation by the farmer Indians, largely of Peru, is three billion dollars." Quoting rather freely from Mts. Estabrook's book and others, let me summarize: "All of our important food plants come from the Indians. Corn alone took the patience of centuries to develop from a wild grass no larger than a head of wheat. The corn now raised in six colors by the Indians of the Southwest is of unusual size; it is prepared by the women into fifty-seven different dishes and is eighty-five percent of their food. We white Americans are not indifferent to com. To mention the commonest vegetables used, we list potatoes (sweet and white), beans (lima string, and kidney), pumpkin, squash, peppers, tomatoes, artichokes, okra, and avocados. Concentrating the sap of the maple tree and corn stalk gave them maple and corn syrup, and THREE STYLES OR TEXTURES OF MUSICAL COMPOSITION
thought. The ancient Greeks took the four tones as the basis of their scales and called them "tetrachord." ("Tetra" means four, having four parts.) Incidentally, our major scale is made by combining two of these tetrachords. In the course of time, the idiom which had sufficed for the musical expression of the people reached the point of exhaustion?or so it seemed. There was not so much the need of new material, however, as there was the need of new and different ways in which to use the material already available. The old familiar axiom, "Necessity is the mother of invention," was found to be true. Man's inventive urge led him into the field of experimentation. Here he discovered interesting things pertaining to music. As his ingenuity and skill increased, the tedium of rhythmic and melodic monotony decreased. Rules were formulated which gave a rather definite working knowledge of how to proceed with these newly found theories. Experiments proved that by following certain rules a melody could be started, and then very shortly after, at a specified place, this same melody could be brought in again and produce a very pleasing effect. In this way melody became its own support?when two or more different melodies were used in a certain prescribed way, each one became a support and strength to the other. This was the simple beginning of what later proved to be a real scientific era for music, an era which produced some truly great and outstanding musicians who left us a rich background on which to build.
There are three styles or textures of musical composition: monophonic, polyphonic, and homophonic.
Monophonic ("Mono" means one, and "phonic" means sound.) In music, monophonic refers to a single melody line unaccompanied. It is the oldest, as well as the simplest, of all music. "For countless ages the world was satisfied with this species of music, the division of music into parts being scarcely more than 700 years old." Chinese music is still of the monophonic style. While we speak of monophonic music as the simplest of the three styles, we must not be misled into thinking that it is trivial and that it presents no difficulties to the performer. Slow, sustained singing is the most difficult of all singing, and when done without the support of an accompaniment presents many problems. Many of the early composers made valuable contributions toward the perfecting of the monophonic style. St. Ambrose, who lived between 333 and 397 A. D., considered the founder of the music of the Catholic Church, arranged the musical service according to his own ideas. He wrote many hymns and chants which were identified with his name. The Ambrosian chant was sung on one tone with a rising or falling inflection at the end of lines or verses. It conformed to the natural rhythm of speaking or of text reading. Gregory, the Great, as he was called, born about 540 A. D., pope from 590 to 604, changed and rearranged the music of the Catholic Church. The chant was made to conform to his thought of a sacred service. It was slowed down in rhythm, and the natural word speaking was given less prominence. Long, sustained tones, he considered, were more effective for a large unison choir than the short ones, and better represented the solemnity of a church service. The Gregorian chant, as it was called, made use of more tones than had previously been used. There was also the breaking away from the custom of having a syllable for each tone. Thus, a succession of tones were often sung on a single syllable giving the melody greater smoothness. With each innovation the scope of singing was extended, and sacred music was given a deeper and more profound dignity. The Gregorian chant is the best example of finely developed, monophonic melody that we have in our Western music. George Frederick Handel has suggested the monophonic style in some of his composition. Instruments have been used; but they play only the melody part with the voice and add the octave either above or below. The bass solo, "The People that Walked in Darkness," from The Messiah, and the aria part of the bass solo, "Col raggio placido," (With Placid Ray) from his opera Agrippina, closely follows this single melody style. There are very few harmony chords used in either composition.
Polyphonic ("Poly" means many?thus many sounds or voices.) In polyphonic music two or more independent melodies are played or sung at the same time. This treatment of melodies is called contrapuntal music. The word "counterpoint" is more or less a familiar term to those who have had music training, especially those who have studied the piano or organ. In the days before our system of notation was perfected, musical sounds were represented by points. The word "counterpoint" was derived from the Latin words "punctum contra punctum," meaning "point against point," or as we would define it, "note against note." In counterpoint one melody is supported by another melody, not chords, which would give us harmony. It is read horizontally, line following line, as contrasted to harmony which we read and analyze vertically. There is the possibility that as early as the tenth century attempts were made to bring in additional vocal parts. It may have happened that a singer whose voice was low in pitch could not reach the tones of the melody which was sung by the group, so started at another pitch, likely a fourth or fifth lower, and carried the melody through in this way. Or it may have been that a high voice wished to sing in a range that better fitted his voice. Whether or not it came as an accidental happening, the music-minded men had been searching diligently for just such an event and welcomed it when it came. The main melody or song tune used was called "cantus firmus." When it appeared with its succession of parallel fifths or fourths and octaves, it took the name of "organum," and later the name of "discantus." This arrangement of music parts, with the addition of an extra interval or so, sufficed for 1000 years. The intervals of the fourth, the fifth, and the octave have regularly been chosen by untrained ears as the most natural and pleasant-sounding intervals of the scale. Two names are important in this first movement towards combining vocal parts: Hucbald (840 to 930), and Guido of Arezzo (995 to 1050). Both were profound scholars. Polyphonic music was the only kind used up until the seventeenth century, and even extended beyond that. During this time it was developed into a powerful and scientific medium of musical expression, a medium which is very difficult to grasp on first hearing and one which seldom attracts the attention of the layman. Its interest grows, however, with repeated hearings. The beautiful weaving of the different parts becomes intensely fascinating to the one who is able to follow the intricate interlacing of the parts. There is no better training for vocalists or instrumentalists than the study of contrapuntal music.
Homophonic ("Homo" means sounding alike; sameness of sound; unisonous.) This definition might confuse one with that of monophonic inasmuch as they both emphasize the single melody line. In monophonic music the melody is complete within itself. Homophonic has reference to music having for its basic structure the element of chords. The general characteristic of monophonic and polyphonic music is lineal?horizontal; that of homophonic is vertical. Thus monophonic and polyphonic music are fundamentally melody; homophonic music is principally chordal, coloristic by nature, or accompaniment to a melody. Homophonic music was unknown until the end of the sixteenth century. All music preceding that time was monophonic or polyphonic. The early Italian opera composers were the inventors of the homophonic style. They were fundamentally great melodists and wanted the beauty of their melodies to be undisturbed by the entrance of other melody lines. The homophonic style, too, was thought a better medium through which to express emotional and dramatic fervor. It was easily conceived and was direct in its appeal and thus presented practically no listening problems at all. It is the type of music with which we are most familiar. We come in contact with it in most of our present-day music. Hymns, folk-songs, chorales (small species), solos, etc., are written in this style. Good examples of homophonic music are Handel's "Largo," "Ave Verum" by Mozart, "Pilgrim Chorus" by Wagner, and "A Legend" by Tschaikowsky. A wealth of harmonic coloring can be displayed through this medium of writing.