Social Science
What "America" Means
LESSON 2 (Tuesday, November 24, 1942)
"Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set." (Proverbs 22:28)
WHEN we think of our English forebears who settled the shores of America in the seventeenth century, there come to our minds the two colonies: Virginia and Plymouth. The first permanent English settlers in the Western World landed at Jamestown in 1607, and a later group of "adventurers," the Pilgrim fathers, were driven by chance of wind and ways to land on the coast of Massachusetts. They received the royal promise of freedom to worship God as they pleased. Thus was established the beginning of England's colonial empire in the New World; and the local self-government of the people in their small towns and communities was destined to develop the American commonwealth.
As we Americans come to see the value and importance of our country, its beauty, and the ideals and heritage of the people, we discover that the roots of our civilization are elemental traits?good will, neighborliness, courage, tolerance, open-minded inquiry, patience. A people rich in these qualities will develop art, science, industry, government. These finer underlying traits are acquired in the intimate, friendly world of the family and the small community. "It is the seedbed of society," as a writer in the Atlantic Monthly recently pointed out, and "only as such traits have opportunity to grow in the kindly, protective shelter of family and small communities, where there is intimate acquaintance and mutual confidence, do they become vigorous and mature enough to survive."
Naturally, the soil had to be conquered, and agriculture was the first industry developed. The chief product was corn, the cultivation of which was learned from the Indians. It became the staple product of the colonists; it is the staple product of America today. Agriculture meant the conquest of the soil, and during our entire pioneer history the work of subduing the wilderness continued with fervor. Agriculture has been the basis of our material lives, and upon the foundation so securely laid the nation has erected its superstructure of industrial and cultural life.
From the beginning of human history, man has tilled the ground, and an old Persian proverb says: "He who sows corn, sows righteousness." We read in the Bible that Elijah's home was in the remote districts of Gilead, and he found his successor, Elisha, in northern Israel plowing with twelve yoke of oxen. The Hebrew race was one of the rugged, virile sort produced on the farm, tilling the soil, planting the vine, following the sheep?all of which added to their love of God.
The subject of "Our Heritage" is made doubly interesting because of the many foodstuffs that were given to our forebears by the American Indians. American archaeologists tell us that our debt to the Indians for their gift to civilization of maize and many other foods is something that Americans should greatly appreciate. In a little book of big accomplishments, called appropriately Givers of Life, Emma Franklin Estabrook of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, gives us arresting facts. She quotes Doctor Spinden: "The annual value to this country alone of food plants, forty-five in all, brought to cultivation by the farmer Indians, largely of Peru, is three billion dollars."
Quoting rather freely from Mrs. Estabrook's book and others, let me summarize: "All of our important food plants come from the Indians. Corn alone took the patience of centuries to develop from a wild grass no larger than a head of wheat. The corn now raised in six colors by the Indians of the Southwest is of unusual size; it is prepared by the women into fifty-seven different dishes and is eighty-five percent of their food. We white Americans are not indifferent to corn. To mention the commonest vegetables used, we list potatoes (sweet and white), beans (lima string, and kidney), pumpkin, squash, peppers, tomatoes, artichokes, okra, and avocados. Concentrating the sap of the maple tree and corn stalk gave them maple and corn syrup, and maple and corn sugar. In medicine, the Indian discovered that witch-hazel leaves eased pain; that by chewing the leaves of a plant called coca and allowing the saliva to run into a wound, anaesthesia was produced. From that came modern isolation of cocaine, used in dentistry and surgery. The Indians of New York used trees, herbs, and plants, to the number of one hundred and fifty, for medicine, food, and cordage. From the Indian came tobacco. From him also came cotton which he raised for his hammocks and garments and wove on a hand loom with a technical skill in hand weaving never equaled by the white man. We are indebted to him for rubber?this to the Indian of Peru. He was a highly practical chemist but did not know it, as instanced in two of the world's finest dyes, black and red: He boiled wild bees plant until it became a paste, furnishing the world's finest black; he cultivated a tiny insect using the red liquid from its body in producing cochineal, a scarlet dye of great beauty. We are indebted to him for legends of great beauty; art, also. In his Epic of America, James Truslow Adams says he considers the Indian trails their greatest contribution. Considering the difficulties, size of the country, hills, mountains, lakes, rivers, and forests, it must have taken the patience of centuries to locate them. Thousands and thousands of miles are clearly marked out over the entire continent, chosen in a manner that would have done credit to a modern engineer. You see our twentieth century civilization has much for which we | should thank the "Givers of Life." WHILE the people from Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries came to America for religious freedom, another ruling motive was the desire to enjoy the security of a home. Religious sentiment lies very closely to the hearthstone. The home-building instinct of the American people has been a powerful factor in creating a love for ? good government, which results always in a greater love for God. This spirit is typified in the lives of George Washington, 'Thomas Jeffer-. Son, Abraham Lincoln, Brigham Young, and others. The homes of all these men were typical of the poor in their day, except, possibly, that of Washington. Their houses were built of logs, the chinks daubed with clay and the roof thatched with long grass. Among the books on the "parlor table' were the Bible, Young's Night Thoughts, and Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. Salt meat and bread were the principal foods. But they were homes, the centers of religious life and faith. The idea of educating the children and youth prevailed among the American colonies from the beginning of their history. The first school in the colonies was the College of Henrico, in Virginia, which was destroyed by the Indians in 1622. Within a few years after the Pilgrims came, schools were maintained and the New Englanders were so anxious that their children should learn to read and write, that the Massachusetts General Assembly. Took the lead in constructive educational legislation, and the law passed by that body in 1647 is regarded as the most important school law in American history. This law required every township having fifty householders to provide a teacher and a school building where the children were to be taught to read and write. When a town grew to one hundred families, a grammar school that would fit the youth for college was to be organized. Eight of our greatest colleges were founded before the American Revolution. The idea of community work, LESSON DEPARTMENT where all the people got together, is characteristic of all the first communities in American life and _history.. This was particularly true in New England and Utah in the days of pioneer development. A few days before the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock in 1620, they drew up a document called "The Mayflower Compact." This brief statement of government embodies the very spirit of democracy and liberty. It reads: In the name of God, Amen. We, whose names are under written, the loyal subjects of our dread Sovereign, King James, by the grace of God, Great Britain, France, and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith, etc. Having undertaken for the glory of God, and advancement of the Christian Faith, and honor of our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colonies in the northern part of Virginia, do, by those presents, solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God, and one of another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politic, for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the ends aforesaid:. And by virtue hereof, to enact, constitute, and frame such just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, offices, from time to time as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good of the Colonies. Unto which we promise all due submission and obedience. In witness thereof, we have hereunto subscribed our names at Cape Cod, the 17th of November, in the year of the reign of our sovereign Lord, King James of England, France, and Ireland the eighteenth, and Scotland the fifty-fourth, Anno Domini, 1620. In the early days of Utah, the New England town government was adopted. Communities were Church communities where all the people took part in making the civic laws, for their religion bred in them fundamental ideals of civic life. The old New England town government was the most democratic and best 587 form of local government that was ever developed. Meetinghouses became the social and religious centers of the communities. Here were the dance, the school, and the theater. Here the people met to worship God, which was fundamental to the fine, cooperative life in early-day Utah. The American people from the beginning inherited fine ideals of life, and the pioneer history of our country is the story of the development of agriculture, the home, the church, the state, and the school. These are the fundamental institutions of American civilization. Topics and Questions For Discussion 1. It will be interesting for every reader of this lesson to find references in the Bible concerning agriculture. Refer to Isaiah 35, for example. What great contribution have the pioneers to Utah made to agriculture? 2. What have the Indians contributed to our agricultural history? Try to find information concerning the history of maize or Indian corn. What foods did the Indians make from maize? 3. What were some of the characteristics of the pioneer home in America, particularly in Utah? Why were the family groups deeply religious? 4. What was the New England town government? (See Young's Founding of Utah.) 5. What do you think was meant when an ancient philosopher wrote: "He who sows corn, sows righteousness"? (Corn was a general term and meant any kind of cereal.) 6. Name some of the first universities in America? (Harvard College, Yale College, Dartmouth College, were three of the earliest colleges. They were patterned after the old English universities.) What did the Mormon pioneers do to develop education in early days? General Presidents Of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons.) LESSON 2 Eliza R. Snow Second Relief Society President (Tuesday, November 24, 1942) ROM the year 1866 until her death in 1887, Eliza R. Snow was the leading woman among the Latter-day Saints. She presided over all the Relief Societies and, for a time, over all the Mormon women's organizations. She was particularly well fitted for such responsibility because of the blending in her nature of spiritual, intellectual, and practical gifts. The pioneer women who looked to her for guidance thirsted for the spiritual, hungered for the intellectual?"the glory of God"?and would have perished without knowledge of the practical. While still young, Eliza Snow manifested her versatility. She won first prize for a poem in Godey's Lady's Book, a famous fashion and literary magazine. But she had also won first prize at the county fair for the best home manufactured leghorn straw for hats. When her younger brother, Lorenzo, needed his "'freedom suit," she made it, and also his military uniform, which he would entrust to no other hands and which turned out to be "magnificent." Eliza Roxey Snow was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, Massachusetts, the second of seven children of Oliver and Rosetta L. Pettibone Snow. The family migrated and became pioneer settlers of Mantua, Ohio. Miss Snow writes of her parents that "their house was a resort Page 588 for the good and intelligent of all denominations, and their hospitality was proverbial"; that "their integrity was unimpeachable"; that "they carefully trained their children to habits of industry, economy, and strict morality, and extended to them the best facilities for scholastic education that the country afforded." In 1829, Eliza Snow heard vague rumors of a new prophet with a new religion. Later she heard two witnesses of the Book of Mormon testify that they had seen a holy angel. Her soul was thrilled, but she took time to deliberate. In 1835, the Spirit bore witness to her, and she was baptized. In Mantua, Eliza Snow's society was sought by people of culture and intellect. She had won recognition for a rousing article, "The Fall of Missolonghi," which event had occurred in the war for Greece's independence from Turkey, and which had stirred another poet, Lord Byron, to take up arms as well as write. Afterward she was requested to write a requiem for ex-Presidents Adams and Jefferson, who died on the same Fourth of July. Always afire with patriotism, she was widely acclaimed for this effort. A literary career seemed assured; yet she forsook all worldly ambitions and moved to Kirtland, where she was happy in her new religion. This period was a high point in LESSON DEPARTMENT Church history. Spiritual gifts were poured out upon the people. They spoke in tongues and interpreted. The lame, the blind, the deaf, and dumb were miraculously healed. A great peace and rejoicing filled the hearts of the Saints. Miss Snow contributed generously to the Kirtland Temple. She taught a select school for young ladies, and the following year taught the family school of the Prophet Joseph. She was impressed with the daily life of this great man. She writes:. "His lips ever flowed with instruction and kindness.... His expansive mind solved the mystic problem of man's destiny; he was in possession of the keys that unlocked the past and the future, with its succession of eternities. Yet in his devotion he was as humble as a little child. Three times a day he had family worship." (Tullidge, Women of Mormondom.) When the Saints left Ohio for Missouri, the Snows settled in Adam-Ondi-Ahman, paying in full for two homesteads including the farm crops. The old settlers seemed friendly, but actually had plotted to sell to the Mormons, then drive them off and repossess their property. Millers refused to grind the wheat of Mormons, so the Saints perforated tin pails and stove pipes for graters and made corn meal. This they moistened with boiled pumpkin, adding milk or butter and baking the palatable mixture. When Governor Boggs ordered the Saints to leave Missouri, the former owner of the Snow property walked in and impudently inquired how soon they would be out of the house. In 1839 Eliza Snow reached Nauvoo. She was one of the group who planned a Ladies' Society. She wrote 589 the by-laws which the women showed to the Prophet who stated that he himself had been planning an organization for women of the Church under the Priesthood only of far greater scope than the one they contemplated. When he organized. The Relief Society in 1842 Sister Snow was its first secretary. She took careful lucid minutes that are of great historical importance today. Sometimes she quoted President Joseph Smith verbatim; and other times she wrote a summary. She wrote many poems and hymns at this time among them was the inspired "Oh My Father!" which she entitled "Invocation." In-flight from Nauvoo Eliza R. Snow kept a careful record of the journey. In spite of physical suffering, such as that resulting from painfully frosted feet, she did her part in the necessary everyday work of camp life, joining the women in washing and making pot-pie of squirrel, quail, rabbit and prairie-chicken procured by the hunters of the company. Unacquainted with animals, she nevertheless drove an ox team. She also nursed a sick companion and son and prepared their meals. Upon arriving at Winter Quarters, she collapsed. Crossing the plains, she again kept an invaluable record. She mentions the Nauvoo Temple bell which accompanied them?how it awakened the herdsman, called the Saints to prayer, and was used for signaling. (The General Board of Relief Society, for its centennial celebration, is erecting a campanile for this bell on the Temple Square, in Salt Lake City.) In Utah, there was no formal Relief Society organization until early 590 in the 1850's. In 1866, Eliza R. Snow was asked by President Brigham Young to help the bishops organize Relief Societies in all the wards and settlements. From 1866 to 1880, she stood at the head of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association as well as Relief Society.