[Vol18 | June 1931 | Sequence: 02c | Category: Article | Title: Reforestation as Bi-Centennial Celebration to Honor George Washington]

Reforestation as Bi-Centennial Celebration to Honor George Washington
MRS. INEZ K. ALLEN General Board Member
My dear sisters: You have read about the organization of a commission several years ago in Washington, to make due preparation for the celebration of the bicentennial of George Washington. This commission is composed of the highest officials in our country, the President of the United States is president, the vice president, chairman. In accordance with this there is also a commission organized in Utah, with Governor George H. Dern as chairman. One part of this program is that trees shall be planted in honor of General Washington. The General Board of the Relief Society desires that the Relief Societies shall cooperate in this particular phase of the work. The national commission has said, "Let us have ten million trees planted this year—ten million monuments, ten million tributes to a great man, the father of our country." It is recommended by the commission that every citizen, and every child, have an opportunity to participate in this great event, which will be celebrated next year on the 22nd day of February. In order to get ready for that, trees must be planted this year, that they be rooted and growing, so that next year on the date set they may be dedicated to the honor of George Washington. The General Board recommends that every stake and ward plant one tree at least. We hope many of you will plant more than one tree. Some of you may desire to make lovely parks, or to beautify playgrounds, but at least we desire that every stake and every ward shall plant one tree, and the General Board is recommending that the tree which shall be planted by you shall be a Norway Maple tree, to be known as the Relief Society tree. One reason why this tree was selected is because
the horticulturists say it has the most perfect bill of health for this rocky mountain climate, which seems that we would be more likely of success. It is a very beautiful tree and entirely suitable to become a monument for this very rare and important occasion.
Recently I was permitted to visit Golden Gate Park in California. That park is ten miles long, and only a few years ago that whole area was nothing but sandhills, and now it is one of the famous beauty spots of the world because of the planting which has taken place there. This should encourage us, so that we may make our own communities more beautiful. Many magnificent structures there are builded by the hands of men, but the great living forests would surpass them all. I was recently in the midst of some of the highest and biggest trees known. Some of them were said to be as high as nearly two of Salt Lake's blocks would be if they were straight up in the air. I was filled with reverence and awe, as I contemplated how marvelous and wonderful a tree can be. One evergreen tree in Yosemite, known as the Grizzly Giant, had withstood the wind and storm, and responded to the sunshine for more than three thousand years, and it still lives to perform the purpose for which it was created. In such a presence one feels inspired with hope, contemplating the ages in which the fibres of the tree have blindly groped and the leaves have unfolded their beauty, even as man's life must climb from the clods of earth to heaven. One feels joy in the comfort of the birds which sing and nest therein. A feeling of peace and harmony is there. One has renewed confidence in the growth of the soul, as he contemplates the new shoots each year on old growth.
The poet says: "He who plants a tree, He plants life; Tints of coolness spreading out above, Wayfarers he may never live to see, Gifts that grow are best, Hands that bless are blest, Plant! Life does the rest."
But even these rare specimens of which I have been speaking are not more worthy of sentiment than the trees under which our own troth perhaps was pledged, or under which our children or grandchildren have played, and their shade is no more precious than the shade of the old apple tree, or some other trees in our own door yard. The trees you plant to honor the father of our country may at the same time be monuments to the tears and the love, and the prayers with which you have done your part in building up your own communities.
Truly the poet has said, as was sung, "Only God can make a tree." Another has said, "The forests were God's first temples." One writer has said: "What does he plant who plants a tree? He plants, in sap and leaf and wood, In love of home and loyalty And far-cast thought of civic good— His blessings on the neighborhood Who in the hollow of His hand Holds all the growth of all our land— A nation's growth from sea to sea Stirs in his heart who plants a tree."
May the Lord bless us in our planting of trees, for we know that we plant And only God can give the increase. I pray for His blessings in the name of Jesus, Amen.