NOVEMBER 1949 cries on llovembep light a The Cover: Marvin Jones The gray geese fly with the wind tonight To the far, far edge of dawn— The marsh is alone and still and white Now their trumpeting song is gone, I am alone as the marsh, and stil] As the soundlessness of Tain, Beating my heart and November's hill With its monotone of pain. But the geese will return another day, Arrowed against the blue; Back to the hill and the marsh to stay Till their summeting song is through— While hill and marsh and the wild heart's tether Grow warm again in April weather. -. "Symphony," Photograph by Willard Luce. Woman's Role as Homemaker President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, held in the Tabernacle, September 29, 1949): HE subject upon which I Shall speak this afternoon, namely, "Woman's Role as Homemaker" is not new; it has been brought before you times without number, both in general conferences and regular meetings of the society. It is an old subject but one which remains with us as ever important. President David O. McKay, in addressing a Relief Society conference a few years ago, made this statement: "Although woman's life is filled with almost everything that is good and lovely, it is not difficult to choose the two activities that are paramount in her world." 'These he defined as homemaking and compassionate service. Unfortunately, this viewpoint with regard to homemaking is not shared by all women. Only recently, in contrast to this, I read on the woman's page of a newspaper in a column reserved for advice to women on personal matters, the following interesting problem presented by a woman: "I am the mother of eight children. Ever since my marriage I have devoted almost my entire time to my home and to rearing my children. I long to do something worthwhile with my life. What would you suggest?" Wisely the columnist answered: "I know of nothing more worthwhile." To match this is the attitude of a maried woman with five grown, Page 724 educated, likable children, who is often heard to say: "After all, what have I accomplished? I have sacrificed my own life for my children." Women today point with pride, and justly so, to their accomplishments in the professions, the arts, commerce, industry, education, and politics. We are grateful for all that modern progress has done for woman—her liberation, her education, her opportunities. We view with pride all that she has achieved. But with a more complete understanding of her mission comes the realization that, although she may wish to combine another role with homemaking, it is in her age-old role of mother and homemaker that she makes her supreme contribution to. The world. The work of homemaking offers to woman her greatest opportunities and her deepest satisfactions. It is here her creative urges may find fullest expression, her administrative ability develop most naturally. It is here her talents may be put to the most practical uses, and her skills function most freely. It is here that continuous claim may be laid upon her resourcefulness and ingenuity, and her intelligence find a constant challenge. It is here her spiritual nature may flower fully, and her character grow to its greatest stature. It is here her influence may be most potent and her contribution to society most effective. WOMAN'S ROLE AS HOMEMAKER It is a matter of deep concern that social and economic conditions today are effecting far-reaching changes in our homes and exerting a pulling power away from the home. They are enticing, if not forcing, many women out of the sphere in which they can find the most happiness and do the greatest good. 'There are many influences in contemporary life today which impinge upon the family and make it difficult for parents to maintain stable homes and direct their children aright. On every hand we read of the concern that is felt for our homes. To illustrate, this rather disconsolate picture of the American home was published in a recent issue of Family Life, the official organ of the National Family Life Association: As the machine age spreads its patterns ever more widely, we have taken out of the home everything that has to do with living. You can't be born there, die there, be buried from there. You can't be taught there, be sick there. You can't work there, nor learn a skill. And entertamment must certainly be found elsewhere. What is there left but a lifeless dormitory where one changes one's clothes and where food, prepared elsewhere, is served? OUR Church leaders have always emphasized the importance of our homes and family life-They have taught us that "the home and family are sacred institutions. They are not man-made, but have been established by a kind Providence for the blessing of his children." President Smith has admonished us, "You fathers and mothers who are rearing sons and daughters, don't 725 put off the opportunity that is yours to win them to a righteous life." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has told us that "to the Latter-day Saint the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the heavens." He has further told us: Each family unit here that is created by and under the authority of the Priesthood in the House of the Lord, is potentially another celestial family, another Heavenly Home, like to the one of which we are members,—a family unit that may ultimately do for other intelligences what God did for ours. President Clark has definitely placed upon the mothers of the Church first responsibility for maintaining our homes according to the teachings of the Church. In addressing the Relief Society sisters in a general Relief Society conference on the subject of "Our Homes," he said: Need I point out to you Relief Society sisters where your high duty lies in all this;—your duty not only, but your lofty destiny as well?.... The great work [that of homemaking] is yours, yours by your very natures, which means by divine design and appointment. You shall fail in your mission if you do not do it, and the world will be lost. The positive concern of our leaders for our present-day homes is evidenced in the "Message from the General Authorities Endorsing and Instituting the Family Hour Program" in which they declare: "The need for them [Family Hour programs] was never greater in the history of the Church." With this feeling existing with regard to homes in general, we are led to ask, "Now, what of our individual homes—yours and mine?" This is a time when it might be Nightly be. Ord (Doctrine and C 68:20.39; maker. Wel] °8:25-28) might we ask Ourselves: 7 Conof home d and fin: os Security, and Test? Are pride In ou T choice lin traditio lS, and idea] TS into aq close-knit family unit C4S8€ and a Which wil] continue eternally? Publication to already Tefetred, re. 4 rather Startling _ article enittled "Gop ay has great imponderables and far h Am ] meeting my heaven-imposeq TeSPOnsibilities? A Sel: to get one w And again, Masmuch children jn Zi Time will no 48 Parents haye 10N, Or in a Which are Oo NY of her Stakes the detai "ganized, that tea ° understand the do ch them not as they ctrine of aith in Christ the Son of the ]j of baptism an { permit me to give lS SUIVey, inte Testin Od, forty-three PET Cent as fair n L Ve. Law unto the Intants of Zion ] " and twely, e Were classified aS Door "any of her Stakes - The Teport comments that the twel — classified as their Children Shall be baptized - n were definitely; bad, and it add that N eight 727 that the Population of the homes The Relief Society, SINCE its jn Studied was drawn from Many parts Ception, has accepted as One of its of the Tuted States and represent d= major T€sPonsibilities the task of People of varied €conomic Status guiding, Itecting, and training its It conclude by sayin members in thejr vital role of mother If the findings from this Sample are amd homemaker In fact, to develo P Tepresentatiye of any considerable section Within the members a fir and abid of the nation's omes, they Suggest that ing testimony Of the 8°spel, and to the. Standards of attainment; make of them keeping are not favorable tO sound fa ly life either ' homemakers Credit on IS One of Relief So. Ublic schools Who "lety's first oo s Ud have faught yoy assurance _ Of the Church of their ave Suggested, place In the More, might b may they 'ssume their ur - And having role as ~ appraised them, and ou e€maker fully Tselves as aware of its teatness and the faromemakers, have th Courage, Teaching Influence of their labors he Will-power and the Intelligence May they conduct their homes SO ° Correct bag Practices ang Pa aS to win the Blessings and benedic tently and wise Y establish new and tion of on; Heavenly ather is m etter Patter sincere Prayer And with It g0 the gifts unused, C songs we dj | he € did not sing, nd joys such m Today is all of time or yesterday jis Past, €W upon the Morning rose ose beauty Cannot Jast. Tomorrow IS with sh We own > adows dj The Loving Friend of Children Preston Nibley N the fall of 1801, George QO. Cannon, first counselor to President Wilford Woodruff in the First Presidency and the enterprising editor of the Juvenile Instructor (a semi-monthly publication for the young people of the Church), issued an invitation through his paper to all those who had known the Prophet Joseph Smith, to write in their recollections of the great man, in order that a permanent record of their experiences might be made. Brother Cannon received several replies to his invitation, as a number of the early members of the Church were then living. These replies he carefully edited and published in the Instructor at intervals throughout the year 1892. I have before me as I write this article, a bound volume of the Juvenile Instructor, containing these interesting letters. Among the first to write his recollections was Jesse N. Smith, then president of the Snowflake Stake in Arizona and a cousin of the Prophet. He was only nine years of age in 1844, but he was intimately acquainted with his distinguished cousin. Here is one circumstance he relates: In 1843, for a short time, I attended a school taught by Miss Mitchell, in Hyrum Smith's brick office. Passing the Prophet's house one morning, he called me to him and asked me what book I read in at my school. TI replied, "The Book of Mormon!" He seemed pleased, and_ tak. Ing me into the house, he gave me a copy of the Book of Mormon, a gift greatly prized by me (J. I., XXVII, page 24). Page 728 This is only a small circumstance, but through it we catch a glimpse of the great man, stopping his little cousin on the way to school and Presenting him with a Book of Mormon. I wonder where that Book of Mormon is now. It would be a prized possession if it were in the Church Historian's Library. A woman by the name of Louisa Y. Littlefield, seventy years of age in 1892, wrote a letter to Brother Cannon, stating that she had been acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was born in 1822 and had moved to Kirtland in 1834 when she was twelve years of age, and had seen the Prophet on many occasions from that time until his death. She particularly remembered her experiences while living in Kirtland and the friendliness of the Prophet. I will speak of a prominent trait of his character, which was perhaps more marked in his early career than was the case after public cares and responsibilities multiplied upon him from so many sources; I mean his natural fondness for children. In Kirtland, where wagon loads of grown people and children came from the country to meeting, Joseph would make his way to as many of the wagons as he well could, and cordially shake the hand of each person. Every child and young babe in the company were especially noticed by him, and tenderly taken by the hand, with his kind words and blessings (Ibid., page 24). The young Prophet, going from wagon to wagon, shaking the hand of every man, woman, and child, presents a picture long to be remembered. He felt that he was a friend THE LOVING FRIEND OF CHILDREN to all mankind. All the accounts that have come down to us testify that he was a sociable and friendly man. [N 1892, a Mrs. Margaret Burgess was living in St. George, Utah. She, too, remembered the Prophet Joseph and recalled several instances where the great man had touched her life. Her letter is one of the most valuable that was sent to the Instructor. I shall reproduce it here in part. My father, William P. McIntire lived in Nauvoo, at the corner of Main and Parley streets. He was a near neighbor of the Prophet, and a true and loving watch-guard for him in times of trouble. The Prophet was often at my father's house. Some incidents which I recollect of him made a deep impression on my child mind. One morning when he called at our house, I had a very sore throat. It was much swollen and gave me great pain. He took me up in his lap and gently anointed my throat with consecrated oil, and administered to me and I was healed. A little child would not forget that experience, being administered to by the man who had beheld the visions, and became President of the Church. But there were still other interesting experiences when she came in contact with the great man. Another time my older brother and I were going to school near the building which was known as Joseph's brick store. It had been raining the previous day, causing the ground to be very muddy, especially along that street. My brother Wallace and I both got fast in the mud and could not get out, and of course, child-like, we began to cry, for fear we would have to stay there. But, looking up, I beheld the loving friend of children, the Prophet Joseph, coming to us. He soon had us on higher and drier ground. Then 729 he stooped down and cleaned the mua from our little, heavy-laden shoes, and took his handkerchief from his pocket and wiped our tear-stained faces. He spoke kind and cheering words to us, and sent us on our way to school rejoicing. Was it any wonder that I loved that great, good and noble man of God? As I grew older I felt to honor and love him for his mission to earth in restoring the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But the most interesting incident that Mrs. Burgess related is the one pertaining to her little twin sisters. This story, in connection with our Prophet, will, I think, live throughout the ages to come. I shall reproduce it in full. Joseph's wife, sister Emma, had lost a young babe. My mother, having twin baby girls, the Prophet came to see if she would let him have one of them. Of course, it was rather against her feelings, but she finally consented for him to take one of them, providing he would bring it home each night. This he did punctually himself, and also came after it each morming. One evening he did not come with it at the usual time, and mother went down to the Mansion to see what was the matter, and there sat the Prophet with the baby wrapped up in a little silk quilt. He was trotting it on his knee, and singing to it to get it quiet before starting out, as it had been fretting. 'The child soon became quiet when my mother took it, and the Prophet came up home with her. Next morning when he came after the baby, mother handed him Sarah, the other baby. They looked so much alike that strangers could not tell them apart; but as mother passed him the other baby he shook his head and said, "This is not my little Mary." Then she took Mary from the cradle and gave her to him. The baby Mary had a very mild disposition, while Sarah was quite cross and fretful, and by this mother could distinguish them, one from the other, though generally people could not tell them apart. After his wife became better in health he did not (Continued on page 760) E were having trouble with fabrics they were made o Our daughter, Clarisse. We lect; f, and se. €cting the Ones We liked best, re trying to Convince "Right then an here | decided her that hangeable taffeta Wasn't on PONngee an Just how jz Should duite what she Wanted for 4 Staduabe Made. Y Aunt Kate had on dress It was Tetty, yes] ad dress of th 'ame materia] and J 'ad one once I knew the soft Promised Myself that if ] ever got shading of 6 the mult;. Olors dj Pchance J would have one of my own Pearing StOwing. But Or "T was Only sixteen € the time Staduation jt Wasn't quite the thing, Y Sister Amand > "IN two years C should have something White older, took first place In the matte; OF pastel], of Coming out fowns (as they Say), nally, in Csperation, ] turned ang mother cater d to her Whims to Grand " Who was early mnety, more than T likeq but I bid dm with a twinkle s¢j]] In her eyes and time. 41 Wisdom eyen Older th her years "My sister Was fair and tall and IN her hea t. She liked More fluff things, with "What d you think Tandma?" ucks and uffles anted some I asked Cr. "Tsp? Est to get a hing with dignity, ] Ould have ighter dres>" 7 >" and we "We were al] eating Supper one thought sh > Weighing the Issue ate fternoon hen two Mormon her mind larisse looked th Issionaries Came to the door. But 'mploringly, € Grandma seemed you know the story," Not to notice "T don't," Clarisse said. "Tel] us." I tried to €xplain further. "Sh "Well, ¢ Cy were hungr > travel. Can haye he taffeta later, buz ing Without Purse or Scrip. It was now—" MUSIC to their "ats when we told "Changeable taffeta May not be them to ¢o € im and ea} With us Popular later," the gir] interrupted, They Shook hands Ith father and Grand 4 cleared he hroat. Mother, NY six brothers an We both became quiet, Waiting for last. Th her to Speak, fo us. J vow. Imagine how we ¢ It, ent Ttaining hen My father had Ookstore strangers fan upset table, but they In the 4st, I used to help him and did nop seem to mind They Certainwe had al] the latest f Son maga. Ly were Ngry and finished up zine My sister and | enjoyed 'verything we had left; and to Cap looking at the Styles and kinds of It off, father asked them age 730 THE PONGEE DRESS night. 'I'll never forget how happy they looked as they said, "We gladly accept the invitation.' "Then Amanda and I cleared the. Table, and when we got into the pantry we had our fun. It was a good thing mother didn't hear us laughing or something would have happened, for our parents were very strict and Puritan-like,' Grandma went on. "Well, after that they made our home their headquarters, almost. We never knew when we were going to be put to the necessity of cooking extra potatoes, or increasing the batch of cookies. When they came the family added up to an even dozen. Mother was always glad it didn't go over that. She never liked the number thirteen. "When they held meetings at our place I generally helped out with the singing, after we learned the songs of Zion, of course, and every time we arose to sing the same elder would edge over to me to help hold the book, as if I couldn't hold it myself. My brother George noticed how miffed I was and told me I was too independent and spunky and wouldn't give the man a chance. They were nice young men, to be sure, but I didn't care for either of them, especially that Frank. I told Amanda one day I wouldn't have him as a husband if he were the last man on earth. No stocky Englishman for me. No, never, not I! "Oh, he was a gentleman. I saw that from the first, but I kept the cool air circulating about me all the time, but Amanda, well, I accused her of deliberately falling in love with Thomas, and she didn't deny it. 731 "I couldn't forget the pongee dress. I went to sleep every night dreaming of it, longing for the soft feel of it against my body." LARISSE looked at Grandma, sitting in her habitual black, and seemed unable to realize that she had once been young, had wanted anything so very much. I said, "Go on," though I was beginning to feel that I was going to lose in the argument. Grandma cleared her throat, her eyes closed as she recalled the past, and continued on. "I mentioned it to father, but he said he would have more important use for our money and we girls must get along. I could see we were getting more involved in religion all the time. Mothers folks commenced getting cold and dismayed. (The idea of high-bred Americans getting mixed up with an outlandish religion like that!) But Mother stood firm. A new light had come into our lives, the light of the true gospel. We accepted it with all our hearts, for we knew we had found the truth, and when once that conviction took possession of us there was no turning back. Everything else seemed unimportant. We wanted to give up everything and join those who. Felt as we did, which meant a long, hard journey to the Rocky. Mountains, and that was our plan, so mother told us. "The time for action had come. A few days later, after father had thought things through, he called us all into the parlor and said, '?'m sure, my dear ones, you feel as I do about the great step we are about to take in becoming members of 732 the Church. I have no doubt in my mind that we have been led in the right direction by our brethren, and that we are now ready for baptism.' "T felt as father did. No one had any objections. There was a sweet, humble spirit present. And when I saw tears in mother's eyes, they told the story for all of us. " "Very well,' father went on, 'we will meet at Willow Creek tomorrow at four o'clock and have the matter attended to.' "IT remember the day father sold our property, furniture and all, in one big lump. Mother kept some of her best china and the few clothes we had. "Father used part of the money we got for our possessions to buy a covered wagon, a team of horses, harnesses, and everything necessary for a long, strenuous journey across the plains, according to the advice of the brethren. "We were as happy as could be, all except Isaac. He squirmed a little, for he was at the beginning of a possible romance and hated to leave it. Of all my brothers he was the most congenial. As for me, I was going to miss the cakes of maple sugar. You see, my Uncle John Rudy had a large maple tree farm, and every year he made the juice of the trees into maple sugar cakes. We always got a good supply of them. I was so fond of them. I made him promise to send me some when we got settled, and he has never failed. I use it for Christmas candy. My brother George used to twit me about Frank liking maple sugar, too. "We came to the valley in November, and the next March Frank RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 and I were married. It was strange that he turned out to be a merchant, a buyer for Z. C. M. I. When he went East on his first buying trip he asked me what kind of material I would like for a new dress. I hesitated to tell him, but when he had gone I wept because I was sure I had lost my last chance to get my pongee dress." "What did he bring you?" my waiting, wide-eyed girl asked her. "Pongee?" Grandma nodded. "Yes. The exact kind I had dreamed of, and satin to trim it with. I had it made up for the Governor's Ball." "Governor Brigham Young," | told Clarisse. "Grandma knew him very well." 'OVES," Grandma assured us, looking actually young and pretty. "Yes, I did. New Year's Eve turned off clear and cold. Snow had fallen the day before and settled down firm and slick. Cutters glided over the glistening surface bearing their occupants to the scene of festivities. Sleigh bells astride the horses' shoulders sent their cheery jingle out into the night air. "Everybody would be _ there, dressed in their best. Brother Brigham expected it. The ladies vied with each other for a little added adornment for this crowning event of the season. "Frank had been given the position of conductor and floor manager. No man was ever better fitted for such a place than he. He was the English gentleman, very pleasing in manner, firm, orderly, and efficient. He knew how a ball should be car tied on in all its details. THE PONGEE DRESS "The hall was in perfect shape. The coal-oil lamps were filled, and their chimneys polished, the wicks trimmed so as to give off their best light into every corner of the room. The fiddlers were in their places, eager to set off the celebration. "At eight o'clock sharp, Frank called the assembly to order. Prayer was offered by Brother Bell, asking divine favor and approval of the occasion wherein we might find happiness in the dance and the association of each other. "The grand march began promptly at nine o'clock. I can tell you, my heart beat wildly when Frank bowed and offered me his arm. My hour of triumph had come. I felt like a queen in the wide, flowing skirt with its rows of satin folds. The basque was stiff with boning and had its share of satin, too. From 733 my ears hung gold teardrop earrings. Everyone said they had seen nothing like them west of the Mississippi River. "To cap off a perfect evening, President Young himself claimed me for the waltz quadrille. As we passed the spectators, I heard people whispering, "Where did she get that dress?' "Yes, a dress can be very important in a woman's life. And dreams can come true if you don't give up," finished Grandma. She looked at Clarisse significantly and I knew the battle for a white or a pastel dress was lost. But somehow, I was glad, for what really shows off a dress to advantage is a radiant and happy girl inside it. I asked, "Where did you say you saw that changeable taffeta, Clarisse, honey?" Alien and Lost Dorothy J. Roberts Summer lingers longest In the fragile rose, For the frail are strongest And lovely to the close. In shrouds of gray November All summer's bloom but this Living, coral ember + Of a season's bliss. Poet Gertrude T. Koven I cannot paint the summer hills Against the wind-swept sky, Nor mock the song of whippoorwills, As evening time draws nigh; But I can take a few small words, And weave them close in time, Until, like music of the birds, They beat with joyous rhyme. Something of June's wild fragrance Scorns the scythe of frost, Cloaked in a pale bud's vagrance, Alien and lost. Silence Mary Pack Triplett Silence brought me loneliness, And silence brought me doubt, Until I sat with silence When all the stars were out. Then silence brought me confidence And silence gave release. Now I can sit with silence And know the gift of peace. Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding Martha Toronto President, Czechoslovakian Mission Relief Society N this modern, rapidly changing world, there is a small village in Slovakia, Javornik by name, that still lives and abides by old and ancient customs. The good people of this village are very proud of the fact that there have been no changes in their customs or costumes for many centuries. They live, in many respects, exactly as their fathers and great-grandfathers lived before them.. | A group of us had an opportunity to visit this strange and interesting village, as wedding guests at the marriage of a young man whose family is a substantial part of the citizenty of this town. We saw and learned of many customs that I, for one, had never dreamed still existed. 'The first and foremost is that the people live to a marked degree according to an old patriarchal order. In one house live four and often five generations. The old, old father is, of course, the head of the house. All the children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren abide by his counsel and his advice. At his death, the oldest of his sons inherits that position just as in ancient patriarchal days. As the family grows, the house is extended, to add rooms for further posterity. The houses become quite large, and many people live under the same roof, The most wonderful part about Page 734 it is that they live in harmony and righteousness, according to the laws and words of the Bible as they understand it. They do not seek entertainment in dances, theaters, or picture shows, but rather spend their evenings in a family circle, reading the Bible and singing religious songs. They study and sing from handprinted scriptures, many hundreds of years old, dating back to the time when the holy scriptures were forbidden outside the church. The songs they sing are scriptures set to a chanting music, different from anything I've ever heard before. They sing a blessing on the food, as well as one of thankfulness after each meal. 'They seem to have a song for every occasion. The wedding to which we were invited was very interesting, first because of the costumes. The everyday dress here is a national costume. For the wedding, however, they wore their Sunday best. 'The women wear short, finely pleated skirts that are a bright yellow, worn over many full petticoats so they stand out and swing as they walk. Over the skirt is a white gathered apron with handprinted flowers all over it. 'They do this hand printing themselves, and weave all the cloth for their costumes at home. 'They wear white blouses with heavily embroidered collars and sleeves and over this a white wool waistcoat, also embroidered in yellow, black, red, VILLAGE MATRONS IN THEIR NATIVE COSTUMES unmarried women Picturesque head. It is an attangement of smal] tibbon bows and flowers, with small round spangles forming the center of each flower. These flowers completely cover their Christmas tree, ddress, and hanging to the several wi | down as the girls walk by. She carries no flowers. The bridegroom is dressed entire. Ly in light Blue. Neckband and down the front. On his hat is also a bespangled decoration in g fan shape with a few feathers sticking out. The other men wear blue trousers, with white wool fingertip coats, flared around the hips. Like the groom, very man in the wedding party wears the decoration on his hat. 736 void of inhabitants except for a flock of geese waddling about. We assumed that the people were inside their houses because of the heavy snow falling. We soon learned differently, however. Upon entering the home of our host, we found that the house was full of not only relatives, but half of the villagers, feasting at long tables. 'The womenfolk were all in the kitchen pteparing the main meal of the day. On three or more work tables, one could see great pans full of veal cutlets, steaks, and pork roasts all in preparation for the big celebration. The women stopped from their labors long enough to give us a warm handshake and welcome us into the home. We were led into the main living room where about twentyfive men were seated at the long tables eating, drinking, and enjoying a good chat. 'They greeted us warmly, and we sat down with them in the large, low room, whose rafters nearly touched the heads of these tall men who had come to the wedding. 'The clean, nicely painted rafters serve as cupboard space for bedding as well as for colorful hand-painted dishes. Even the large, fluffy feather beds, and pillows that are stuffed up into the ceiling have a colorful strip of handmade lace holding the ends of the white pillow cover together. In one end of the room is the large, fancy stove that reaches to the ceiling, looking very much like a monument. After we sat down on the long bench behind the long table they brought us thick slices of country bread, cach slice about a foot long, with country-made smoked bacon fat, that looks like salt pork, which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 we ate with the bread. That is the greatest gesture of hospitality among the peasants in this country, and it is surprisingly tasty. After this, they brought up plates of home-baked! Cookies, cakes, and pastries in every' form and shape and decorated with frostings, fillings, and whipped cream. 'They were delicious. As we met these people, one by' one, it seemed to me that everyone had the same name. Upon inquiry, I was told that the inhabitants of this village use only four male names, and four female names. To me, it was very confusing, but to them it is very sensible. For generations, the men here have been known as either John, Thomas, Martin, or Paul, and the women as Eva, Katherina, Anne, or Elizabeth. In case there are more than four male or female babies born in a family, they start naming them over again as John II, Thomas II, Eva II, and so on. ' At about eleven o'clock, the bridegroom came into the room, dressed in his light blue costume, accompanied by his goodman, or advocate, who does all the talking for him. 'The best man, as we would call him, asks the parents of the bridegroom to give him their blessing. 'This, of course, is granted, and the words used throughout the ceremony both by parents and best man are Bible verses, and some of them are chanted. After this little ceremony in the house, we all went outside to form a wedding procession, which was to march down the village street, to the strains of the town band, to the home of the bride. T was a strange procession, led by a group of the young male rela- ANCIENT RITES AT A MODERN WEDDING tives of the family. These young fellows, dressed in their light blue pants and white, fingertip-length coats, flaring slightly from the waist, embroidered in red, blue, and green, made quite a picture as they danced and sang along the snow-covered country road. Behind them came the town band attracting as much attention as the group ahead, but with the help of a drum and brass horns. It was the kind of an oldfashioned country band that one only reads about. It was interesting to actually see and hear one. Following the band, came the bridegroom, very solemn and setious, accompanied by his best man, who, in a respect, acts as his lawyer, and his advisor. Behind them walked the colorful group of young girls, with their bright costumes and gay headdresses. As they walked with light, almost dancing steps, their bright yellow skirts swung from side to side. Even the tiny girls, some only five or six years old wore these costumes, and they looked so sweet with their little feet in boots, and their yellow skirts swinging. Following the young girls came the matrons, whose dresses were somewhat more subdued and practical. The rest of the parade was made up of the wedding guests, including us, the foreigners, who must have looked strange in our modern dress of the western civilization. In this fashion we marched down the road to the home of the bride, where we found that more feasting and celebrations had been going on all morning. We entered the house, where the representatives or advocates of the bride and groom did all the talking, arguing back and forth 737 about the advantages and disadvan'ages of the marriage state. During their somewhat heated discussion about the merits and disadvantages of marriage, they spoke in Biblical terms, using quotations from Paul, and various prophets. They each quoted passages from the Bib. E on the subject, pro and con. Finally, the groom was quizzed on his knowledge of the Bible, which he knew very well, as does every inhabitant of this town. 'The advocates agreed that he was worthy to take a wife from the family and suggested that he choose his bride. First an old, old lady was brought in, but he said she was not the one. Then another, younger one, appeared, but she again, was not the one. In a moment the real bride was brought in and, upon the groom's request, the advocate asked the parents for her. 'The father gave his consent, upon which the girl went to her father, thanked him for the home, education, and all he had given her, and asked to be forgiven of all her wrongdoings. He gave her his blessing, and it was a very tender scene between father and daughter. Then everyone came out of the house, and the parade started back again towards the small white church on the hill. The groom still walked alone with the men, and the bride walked in the group of maidens. The gaiety continued, but the bride and groom were very solemn and serious. At the church we sat in the visitors' balcony where we could view all the proceedings nicely. 'The women entered the church first, and sat on one side of the room. 'The (Continued on page 761) | Saw Paricutin Ann Rich VER since the morning paper flashed the news that a fire- — and-brimstone-hurling — volcano was being born in the flat cornfields of Paricutin, Mexico, I was possessed of an insatiable desire to see it. My husband listened indulgently whenever I dreamed aloud about such a journey. Our young son smiled superciliously, advising me to go into training before contemplating so rugged a trip. Our daughter was totally unimpressed. In spite of the indifference of my family, the idea of seeing Paricutin continued to smolder. Four years later I was able to consummate my plans for the trip. As late as 1947 it was still possible to observe the prolonged birth throes of Paricutin, the Western Hemisphere's youngest volcano. On the 20th of February 1943, to the peaceful little farm village of Paricutin, Mexico, came the bewildering, disturbing, and soul-searing experience of witnessing the writhing agony of Mother Earth in labor. For these simple people it meant destruction of house, home, and field. The great Mother. Trembled and they were frightened. She knocked at their doors and they knew not what it meant. She gathered her mighty forces and warned that her time had come. Room and more room was needed for the birth, the birth of a baby volcano. And so, for these peasants, birth brought destruction. The four, long years of waiting came to an end and I left the border Page 738 behind and arrived in Mexico City whence the trek to Paricutin started. Here the final arrangements were made and early one morning we planned to leave Mexico City— that is, as early as the native driver, Salvadore, could rouse himself. He arrived late but, seeing that sunny smile all over his clean-shaven brown face, who could be angry? And even when I observed he was not driving to the open highway, but to the congested part of the city where he stopped uno momento (in order to pick up two more passengers not counted on), that same smile again completely disarmed me. Finally, under the power of Salvadore's cautious driving, we skimmed along smoothly and comfortably over splendid roads all the way to the flower-filled mountain town of Patscuaro. Here we rested for the night. HE following morning saw us on the last lap of the journey to Uruapan, which was to be our headquarters before taking off for the great adventure. 'These roads, too, were excellent, except that they climbed, twisted, and turned, each good turn being repaid by many other good turns. By noon we reached the summit. This was a breath-taking spot called Mil Cumbres, meaning "a thousand peaks," and so it seemed as they spread out to the far horizon in countless, undulating, sea-green crests. From this vantage point we were able to see dimly a thin wisp of smoke coming 1 SAW PARICUTIN from the great spectacle we were soon to view at close quarters. Upon arriving at our Uruapan hotel, we had a hasty mid-afternoon cup of cinnamon-flavored chocolate in a brightly colored, tile-lined patio, filled with lush semi-tropical growth. The air was pregnant with electricity, garlic, and well-fed flies! No sooner had we donned the blue denim coveralls furnished by the hotel for the horseback ride to the volcano, than the torrential rains came. When Salvadore questioned the advisability of starting, the two Texans, our added passengers, voiced my own thoughts by saying, "Hi, oh, Salvi, let's go!" I, too, agreed that it be Paricutin or drown. The special automobile which Salvadore had engaged for the drive between Uruapan and the pony rendezvous, was already waiting for us. 'This heavy car, with extra durable tires, was necessary in order to carry it over the glassy rubble of the recently blazed road. Prior to the voicano's nativity, the approach from Uruapan to the little agricultural center in the valley of Paricutin was by mountain trail and burto back. Even after four years of tourist travel, the mountain trail could scarcely be called a road. We lumbered over wide ruts, crevices, ravines, washes, and steep grades. Only the weight of the car, coupled with the slow gait at which it tossed about, kept it upright. We riders within experienced all the physical discomforts of every disagreeable mode of travel. It was a conglomerate sensation of rides on camels, elephants, and storm-rocked _ ships. While I groaned and braced myself 739 wherever I could, the 'Texans were calling upon all the shades of Hades. Their steady flow of profanity was pleasantly tempered by a delightful Southern drawl. Angry rivulets, red mud, and the pelting rain were all about. What with the blinding sheets of water, I was beginning to wonder why I had not included swimming in my preparations for this trip. Each time our special driver dashed cross fissures spanned merely by two loose planks I was sure the end was at hand but, miraculously enough, he made it every time. LTIMATELY the rain ceased as suddenly as it had started and we reached San Juan de las Colchas, where we pulled up to the group of waiting Indians and their ponies. I no sooner crept out of the car than an Indian led his pony directly to me, saying in fairly understandable Spanish that this pony was the smallest and muy bien (very good) for me. I speak of his Spanish being fairly understandable because many Indians in remote sections speak their own dialects, so that to one whose ears are attuned to Castilian Spanish, theirs could sound strangely foreign. He called my attention to the nice, new, intricately tooled saddle. Yes, it looked nice. I learned later that its unyielding newness was nice enough to kill. After helping me to mount the pony, the Indian threw the reins to his son, about ten years of age, who was to lead the pony up the trail. The two Texans had already taken off on their ponies like ducks to water. Salvadore had started. Other groups of tourists were falling in- 740 VOLCANO AT PARICUTIN, MEXICO to the trek. I slowly followed to the mournful droning chant of the muchacho (boy). Leaving San Juan de las Colchas, we rode over a gently rising slope covered with damp, black ashes. I quite envied the muchacho the joy of trudging barefoot. Each step left the imprint of five little toes and a perfect arch. In a short time a stiff breeze came up and I fastened the braided cord of the sombrero under my chin. The hat served as a suitable windbreak as well as a rain shield. As I looked up I could see that Salvadore was keeping himself warm by galloping away at full speed. With his crimson poncho (blanket) billowing about his portly body, he no longer was the whitecollared tourist interpreter, but a child of the peasant tribesmen. That RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 was the last I saw of him for the next hour and a half. The climb grew steadily steeper, the light dimmer. Presently I saw one of the most poignant sights of the whole trip. As far up the hillside as was visible, there stood etched against a backdrop of black ashes, unburied, twisted limbs of treetops, stripped to ivory nakedness. This was the aftermath of Mother Earth's hot, spewing breath during her supreme struggle. Here they stood, transfixed, the silent sentinels of a new order. The unchanging dirgelike chant of the muchacho sent a deeper eeriness through me. From here we moved on to the edge of the lava beds, which were the exhausted masses of cinnamoncolored boulders. 'These were precariously heaped to monstrous heights by the powerful forces exerted from the adjacent molten lava. Both boy and pony now cautiously picked their way over the treacherous rocks, while I desperately clung to the pommel in order to compensate for the many shifting positions. Off and on, we would pass through heavy warm vapors and be momentarily enveloped. We continued to climb. Next we found ourselves in a furrow flanked by steep walls of serrated rock, rising to saber-like pinnacles. All this was once the pulsating lifeblood of Mother Earth. Gradually we reached the crest between two furrows. Here we were able to stand atop the surface-cooled ridge and view the countless semicongealed streams of molten lava which had careened down the valley nearly a mile wide and twelve miles | SAW PARICUTIN long. All that was once a settlement was gone. Only the twin spires of the elaborate cathedral remained, After an awesome pause in this weird atmosphere of death-like silence, the little guide led the pony off the lava beds, along an ash-covered path which zigzagged ever higher until we reached the summit. This hill from which we were to view Paricutin was about a half mile, as the crow flies, from the volcano. T was at paling twilight that I got my first glimpse of the rose-tinted cone, silhouetted against the darkening heavens. Rolling white puffs of velvet-like softness rose out of the crater, gradually to spread out into fleecy white clouds. Each new display of Mother Earth's fiery breath was heralded by resounding rumblings. His roaring came at almost regular intervals followed by a pause, and then fleecy puffs again, as if the mother were catching her breath for the spasm. To have said a word to anyone, even if I could have made myself heard, would have seemed - sacrilegious. How well these simple little guides understood, for they left us entirely alone to gaze and meditate. Dense darkness now enveloped Paricutin. The wonder child, swathed in colors of flame and white, was magnified a thousandfold. Off in the outer arc of the sky, as though keeping a safe distance, myriad curious stars came out of the darkness to blink and witness with us the prolonged pangs of Mother Earth's childbearing. Over and over she unashamedly roared, hissed, and belched forth fiery fun- 741 nels of blood-red fumes to be dissipated in the heavily laden, gaseous atmosphere. It was very dark and cold when my muchacho came quietly up to me with a boxed lunch. Lookin around, I could see that the other guides were doing the same. Soon Salvadore had started a small fire around which we huddled. No one seemed to have much appetite for food. The young Texans were hopping up and down to keep warm, throwing in a few cowboy "yippees." Now and then they would lapse into a quieter mood and soberly comment, "What a sight!" During this time the guides got the idea of keeping us amused by running races down the ash-covered hill to bring back pieces of hot sulphur. In between runs they would happily accept any portions of uneaten food, and proceed to entertain with more races, wrestling, and giggling. Like children everywhere, they enjoyed holding the center of the stage. After this Salvadore pointed out a new aperture in the volcano. It was at the base, far removed from the crater, from which a wide flow of lava was pouring out. With the aid of binoculars we could see more minutely the mammoth - scarlet chunks give way, spilling and tumbling into the seething cauldron of blood-red lava-food for Paricutin's growth. GOMETIME later, thoroughly inspired as well as chilled, we reluctantly commenced the descent. This ride was to prove even more painful, for there were no new positions left into which I might shift. (Continued on page 760) ix ty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1889 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" WOMAN: You talk about the fire of genius. Many a blessed woman who dies unsung and unremembered has given out more of the real vital heat that keeps the life in human souls, without a spark flitting through her humble chimney to tell the world about it, than would set a dozen theories smoking, or a hundred odes simmering in the brains of so many men of genius-——O. W. Holmes. IN MEMORIAM "The loved and lost!"" Why do we call them lost Because we miss them from our onward road? God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed, Looked on us all, and loving them the most, Straightway relieved them from life's weary load. MARICOPA STAKE: Sister Ann Kleinman reported the Alma Ward, showing that a portion of the sisters were alive to their duties, encouraged mothers to be more zealous. Sister Savage spoke encouragingly of the Papago Ward, said the native sisters were anxious to learn from their white sisters the domestic duties of wives and mothers. —F. E. Robson, Stake Sec. THE LOST LENORE: The cottage in which Edgar Poe wrote "The Raven" has been torn down to make room for more modern buildings: but before it was demolished, even for years, since the death of Poe, relic hunters have visited the place carrying away anything portable; shingles, wallpaper, fire-place and window-lattice: so that really not much remained of the original home. THOUGHTS OF CHILDHOOD HOURS Thoughts. Of my childhood hours, Revel awhile for me, And pluck from fancy's bowers, Fair leaves from life's young tree Sweet buds of youth and beauty, Growing uncheck'd and free, In loving truth and duty Oh, bring them back to me! REASONS WHY: We do not intend to sit down in the corner and cry for sugar plums when there is so much needed work to be done, we do not believe in the fiction of the clinging vine, for although woman is more delicate in her organization than man, though she may sometimes carry her love of the refined and the beautiful to an extreme, still her heart is of oak, and when called to pass through scenes of trouble and distress, often exhibits a fortitude and carries burdens at which man would shrink, and when the trumpet sounds and the watchman on the tower cries aloud that the day is breaking, woman will be there with man and receive the reward of victory.— Phebe C. Young. Page 742 MBs. J. L. BLAIR BUCK, presi- (WHEN Rowland Macy starteg dent of the Genera] Federat O C ng program. In quently to Berlin, Mrs. Buck, Mj d Strauss, President of _the the much-to-the. Of the State Po]j MBs. EDITH RUSSELL OLIOlogy, A Little PHANT > 4 gifted young Lat. Etry, which ter-day Saint writer, died August 18, lliams, Poet 1949. Born In England, and a conQ Compilation of vert to the Church, she became asOetry of the twentieth and later to" a "ighteen a the ae 4 Brigham Young Univers; i. Was awarded man —. We Emil Celved outstandin Itwe " Marvianne ler stories articles, and St. Vincent Millay, and Sara Teasdale. The vol - Russelis Did ume E Go to hurch appeared in Indeed a "treasury" and is wel] worth 7 Relief Societ Magazine In Careful st dy 1948 Page 743 CQ >r EDITORIAL cm—~C VOL. 36 NOVEMBER 1949 NO. 11 Shanksgiving Without a Ceast FE think of Thanksgiving as actually beginning on an autumn day in 1621, after the Pilgrims had gathered their first harvest. We associate the word with reaping, the gathering of crops, and feasting on the good things which the earth yields abundantly. And yet the very first