anksgiving Without a Feast by Vesta P. Crawford 744
Notes From the Field: Activities in the Missions, Socials, and Handicraft by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 763
From Near and Far 792
Fun With Spools by Rachel K. Laurgaard 752
Pioneer Recipe by Anna Prince Redd 756
The Interest and Beauty of Vegetables by Mary Grant Judd 757
A Letter From Mother by Clara Horne Park 762
Theology: "On to Jerusalem" by Don B. Colton 769
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Is Not the Life More Than Meat?" by Mary Grant Judd 773
Work Meeting: Girls' Clothing by Jean Ridges Jennings 774
Literature: Sir Francis Bacon by Briant S. Jacobs 776
Social Science: Public Administration and Good Government by G. Homer Durham 781
Optional Lessons: The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant by T. Edgar Lyon 785
Rain on November Night—Frontispiece by Marvin Jones 723
Today Is All of Time by Maude O. Cook 727
Alien and Lost by Dorothy J. Roberts 733
Poem by Gertrude T. Koven 733
Silence by Mary Pack Triplett 733
Ascendant Autumn by Ruth Harwood 745
Earth Decorator by Christie Lund Coles 745
The Long Wait by Lael W. Hill 746
Night by Gene Romolo 751
November Moon by Margaret B. Shomaker 752
November Day by Beatrice K. Ekman 756
Beauty in Brown by Josephine J. Harvey 760
Star Music by Grace Sayre 775
Thanksgiving Day by Nan S. Richardson 791
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 83-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advan: e. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. _ i | =
Larger in ~ Wider through The Wembeles, the back. Larger at the, waist. Here's figure flattery for the Half-sizer in this fine fitting dress of gentle rayon crepe with 8 outstanding features. Green, Brown, Black. 161% to 2214, only (98 READY TO WEAR Downstairs Store Mail Orders Filled—Enclose 15¢ postage! Arger across | the muscle-->~ Smaller in. Body proportions. Ae + » BRAS. + a - yee Don Knight HUNTINGTON LAKE, CALIFORNIA
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN VOL. 36, NO. 11 NOVEMBER 1949 cries on llovembep light a The Cover: Marvin Jones The gray geese fly with the wind tonight To the far, far edge of dawn— The marsh is alone and still and white Now their trumpeting song is gone, I am alone as the marsh, and stil] As the soundlessness of Tain, Beating my heart and November's hill With its monotone of pain. But the geese will return another day, Arrowed against the blue; Back to the hill and the marsh to stay Till their summeting song is through— While hill and marsh and the wild heart's tether Grow warm again in April weather. -. "Symphony," Photograph by Willard Luce. Woman's Role as Homemaker President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, held in the Tabernacle, September 29, 1949): HE subject upon which I Shall speak this afternoon, namely, "Woman's Role as Homemaker" is not new; it has been brought before you times without number, both in general conferences and regular meetings of the society. It is an old subject but one which remains with us as ever important. President David O. McKay, in addressing a Relief Society conference a few years ago, made this statement: "Although woman's life is filled with almost everything that is good and lovely, it is not difficult to choose the two activities that are paramount in her world." 'These he defined as homemaking and compassionate service. Unfortunately, this viewpoint with regard to homemaking is not shared by all women. Only recently, in contrast to this, I read on the woman's page of a newspaper in a column reserved for advice to women on personal matters, the following interesting problem presented by a woman: "I am the mother of eight children. Ever since my marriage I have devoted almost my entire time to my home and to rearing my children. I long to do something worthwhile with my life. What would you suggest?" Wisely the columnist answered: "I know of nothing more worthwhile." To match this is the attitude of a maried woman with five grown, Page 724 educated, likable children, who is often heard to say: "After all, what have I accomplished? I have sacrificed my own life for my children." Women today point with pride, and justly so, to their accomplishments in the professions, the arts, commerce, industry, education, and politics. We are grateful for all that modern progress has done for woman—her liberation, her education, her opportunities. We view with pride all that she has achieved. But with a more complete understanding of her mission comes the realization that, although she may wish to combine another role with homemaking, it is in her age-old role of mother and homemaker that she makes her supreme contribution to. The world. The work of homemaking offers to woman her greatest opportunities and her deepest satisfactions. It is here her creative urges may find fullest expression, her administrative ability develop most naturally. It is here her talents may be put to the most practical uses, and her skills function most freely. It is here that continuous claim may be laid upon her resourcefulness and ingenuity, and her intelligence find a constant challenge. It is here her spiritual nature may flower fully, and her character grow to its greatest stature. It is here her influence may be most potent and her contribution to society most effective. WOMAN'S ROLE AS HOMEMAKER It is a matter of deep concern that social and economic conditions today are effecting far-reaching changes in our homes and exerting a pulling power away from the home. They are enticing, if not forcing, many women out of the sphere in which they can find the most happiness and do the greatest good. 'There are many influences in contemporary life today which impinge upon the family and make it difficult for parents to maintain stable homes and direct their children aright. On every hand we read of the concern that is felt for our homes. To illustrate, this rather disconsolate picture of the American home was published in a recent issue of Family Life, the official organ of the National Family Life Association: As the machine age spreads its patterns ever more widely, we have taken out of the home everything that has to do with living. You can't be born there, die there, be buried from there. You can't be taught there, be sick there. You can't work there, nor learn a skill. And entertamment must certainly be found elsewhere. What is there left but a lifeless dormitory where one changes one's clothes and where food, prepared elsewhere, is served? OUR Church leaders have always emphasized the importance of our homes and family life-They have taught us that "the home and family are sacred institutions. They are not man-made, but have been established by a kind Providence for the blessing of his children." President Smith has admonished us, "You fathers and mothers who are rearing sons and daughters, don't 725 put off the opportunity that is yours to win them to a righteous life." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has told us that "to the Latter-day Saint the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the heavens." He has further told us: Each family unit here that is created by and under the authority of the Priesthood in the House of the Lord, is potentially another celestial family, another Heavenly Home, like to the one of which we are members,—a family unit that may ultimately do for other intelligences what God did for ours. President Clark has definitely placed upon the mothers of the Church first responsibility for maintaining our homes according to the teachings of the Church. In addressing the Relief Society sisters in a general Relief Society conference on the subject of "Our Homes," he said: Need I point out to you Relief Society sisters where your high duty lies in all this;—your duty not only, but your lofty destiny as well?.... The great work [that of homemaking] is yours, yours by your very natures, which means by divine design and appointment. You shall fail in your mission if you do not do it, and the world will be lost. The positive concern of our leaders for our present-day h