the first Thanksgiving was in the late autumn of 1620, before any seeds had been planted in the earth roundabout Plymouth. It is recorded that the Pilgrim Fathers gave thanks when they first sighted the coast of New England. During their journeys of exploration and their trips inland to gather wood and search for food, they knelt and offered praise for the safe arrival of the Mayflower which had braved the stormy Atlantic and had arrived on the shores of the New World. There, on the edge of the wilderness, they were conscious of the great barrier of the ocean, conscious of the separation of distance. They felt wonderment and curiosity concerning that vastness which lay beyond the "stern and rockbound coast," and their strength came from a realization of their dependence upon divine guidance. Thoughts, clothed in the rhythm Page 744 of words, are long remembered and seem to grow more precious with the years. We are indebted to Govemor William Bradford for a lucid description of the end of a great sea journey, and the beginning of a new commonwealth. Being thus arrived in good harbor and brought safe to land, they fell upon their knees and blessed ye God of heaven, who had brought them over ye vast and furious ocean, and delivered them from all ye perils and miseries thereof, again to set their feet on ye firm and stable earth, their proper elemente. The shore sloped up to the hills and the trees stood dark above the water. Winter had come to the New England coast and lay heavy on the hills. Ice had already locked the streams and snow covered the unknown reaches of the land. And for ye season it was winter. A desolate wilderness.... For summer being done all things stand with a weatherbeaten face, and ye whole country, full of woods and thickets, represented a wild and savage hiew. Such was the unwelcoming shore, and such the feelings of the Pilgrim Fathers on that day and in that year wherein the cornerstone of a nation was laid and the beginning of Thanksgiving came to America. For, as Governor Bradford so earnestly expresses it: Our forefathers came over this great ocean, and were ready to perish in the EDITORIAL wilderness; but they cried unto ye Lord, and he heard their voyce Let them therefore praise ye Lord because he Is good and his mercies endure forever, The Pilgrims had and they expressed their gratitude for a haven in the New World, a Place for the building of houses of worship, for the erecting of stately halls of government, for an Opportunity to build the material security and spiritual strength which are found a home, 745 necessary for the complete developfor us to Temember the words inscribed on monument, which, with ing years, become even More significant: "What our fathers with sO much difficulty secured, do not basely relinquish," V. P. C. —0-~—>~o— Ascendant Wenn, Ruth Harwood This is a canticle of autumn, C essence of its mortal and immortal messages, Autumn, the very whisper of the wind among the trees, Autumn, the vibrant glowing overself which shines above The lonely, aching, human heart of love, Time's balanced place of beauty where we can behold The radiance of spirit's high, eternal gold. Garth, Dens tor Christie Lund Coles Yesterday her place was done In palest silk chartreuse, And pastel shades of petal-pink Too delicate for use, Today, she covers footstools In varied shades of red, Gleaming gold, and amethyst. Upon the hill js spread A counterpane of orange, Bright crimson, Her tapestries a And definitely She is most la purple, blue; T€ very gay new. Vish in her choice Of shades flamboyant, bright, Yet soon her whim will change and she'll Re-do the place in white. > 4ts. And, Cup tomatoes =) tgp. Worcestershire Sauce 14% gts. Diced Potatoes 1 tsp. Pepper 1 good sized Onion Sliced cup bacon, chicken, OF other fat 2 2 cans corn 1 bay leag "" qQts. White Sauce 3, Sprigs Parsley 4 cup diced bacon, browned 2Y tbsp. Salt 6 €ggs, hard Cooked 4nd cook ¢i]] Potatoes ang 'ONS are tender White sauce a d sliced eggs SANDWICHEs (Makes about 3° sandwiches ) Y, "UP soft butter OF margarine 2 cups finely chopped nuts CUDS grated Cheese 1 tsp. Paprika 2 cups lard 2 tbsp. Soda 24% "UPS molasses 4. €gg5, wel] beaten 1 cup TOWN sugar 6-8 Cups flour t boil, Add the Soda. Mix and allow to Cool. When Cool add Well-beaten €ggs and flour "Nough (about 6-8 CUPS) to rol] Out. Cut in large Tounds and bake in Modcrately To find that in Silences Much can be heard; Smile Speaks to smile all the Phrases that Matter, Cart answers heart—with Never a Word. Page 746 fore the Wedding, however, Joanna deJoanna Siggled, cides that she sinnot leave her family, SoaD opera." She put the orchids especially while Penny IS Zoing ont With a back in the Tefrigeratoy and closed Sung man of uestionable Character. She "a. Eae herself '4,