THE PONGEE DRESS night. 'I'll never forget how happy they looked as they said, "We gladly accept the invitation.' "Then Amanda and I cleared the. Table, and when we got into the pantry we had our fun. It was a good thing mother didn't hear us laughing or something would have happened, for our parents were very strict and Puritan-like,' Grandma went on. "Well, after that they made our home their headquarters, almost. We never knew when we were going to be put to the necessity of cooking extra potatoes, or increasing the batch of cookies. When they came the family added up to an even dozen. Mother was always glad it didn't go over that. She never liked the number thirteen. "When they held meetings at our place I generally helped out with the singing, after we learned the songs of Zion, of course, and every time we arose to sing the same elder would edge over to me to help hold the book, as if I couldn't hold it myself. My brother George noticed how miffed I was and told me I was too independent and spunky and wouldn't give the man a chance. They were nice young men, to be sure, but I didn't care for either of them, especially that Frank. I told Amanda one day I wouldn't have him as a husband if he were the last man on earth. No stocky Englishman for me. No, never, not I! "Oh, he was a gentleman. I saw that from the first, but I kept the cool air circulating about me all the time, but Amanda, well, I accused her of deliberately falling in love with Thomas, and she didn't deny it. 731 "I couldn't forget the pongee dress. I went to sleep every night dreaming of it, longing for the soft feel of it against my body." LARISSE looked at Grandma, sitting in her habitual black, and seemed unable to realize that she had once been young, had wanted anything so very much. I said, "Go on," though I was beginning to feel that I was going to lose in the argument. Grandma cleared her throat, her eyes closed as she recalled the past, and continued on. "I mentioned it to father, but he said he would have more important use for our money and we girls must get along. I could see we were getting more involved in religion all the time. Mothers folks commenced getting cold and dismayed. (The idea of high-bred Americans getting mixed up with an outlandish religion like that!) But Mother stood firm. A new light had come into our lives, the light of the true gospel. We accepted it with all our hearts, for we knew we had found the truth, and when once that conviction took possession of us there was no turning back. Everything else seemed unimportant. We wanted to give up everything and join those who. Felt as we did, which meant a long, hard journey to the Rocky. Mountains, and that was our plan, so mother told us. "The time for action had come. A few days later, after father had thought things through, he called us all into the parlor and said, '?'m sure, my dear ones, you feel as I do about the great step we are about to take in becoming members of 732 the Church. I have no doubt in my mind that we have been led in the right direction by our brethren, and that we are now ready for baptism.' "T felt as father did. No one had any objections. There was a sweet, humble spirit present. And when I saw tears in mother's eyes, they told the story for all of us. " "Very well,' father went on, 'we will meet at Willow Creek tomorrow at four o'clock and have the matter attended to.' "IT remember the day father sold our property, furniture and all, in one big lump. Mother kept some of her best china and the few clothes we had. "Father used part of the money we got for our possessions to buy a covered wagon, a team of horses, harnesses, and everything necessary for a long, strenuous journey across the plains, according to the advice of the brethren. "We were as happy as could be, all except Isaac. He squirmed a little, for he was at the beginning of a possible romance and hated to leave it. Of all my brothers he was the most congenial. As for me, I was going to miss the cakes of maple sugar. You see, my Uncle John Rudy had a large maple tree farm, and every year he made the juice of the trees into maple sugar cakes. We always got a good supply of them. I was so fond of them. I made him promise to send me some when we got settled, and he has never failed. I use it for Christmas candy. My brother George used to twit me about Frank liking maple sugar, too. "We came to the valley in November, and the next March Frank RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 and I were married. It was strange that he turned out to be a merchant, a buyer for Z. C. M. I. When he went East on his first buying trip he asked me what kind of material I would like for a new dress. I hesitated to tell him, but when he had gone I wept because I was sure I had lost my last chance to get my pongee dress." "What did he bring you?" my waiting, wide-eyed girl asked her. "Pongee?" Grandma nodded. "Yes. The exact kind I had dreamed of, and satin to trim it with. I had it made up for the Governor's Ball." "Governor Brigham Young," | told Clarisse. "Grandma knew him very well." 'OVES," Grandma assured us, looking actually young and pretty. "Yes, I did. New Year's Eve turned off clear and cold. Snow had fallen the day before and settled down firm and slick. Cutters glided over the glistening surface bearing their occupants to the scene of festivities. Sleigh bells astride the horses' shoulders sent their cheery jingle out into the night air. "Everybody would be _ there, dressed in their best. Brother Brigham expected it. The ladies vied with each other for a little added adornment for this crowning event of the season. "Frank had been given the position of conductor and floor manager. No man was ever better fitted for such a place than he. He was the English gentleman, very pleasing in manner, firm, orderly, and efficient. He knew how a ball should be car tied on in all its details. THE PONGEE DRESS "The hall was in perfect shape. The coal-oil lamps were filled, and their chimneys polished, the wicks trimmed so as to give off their best light into every corner of the room. The fiddlers were in their places, eager to set off the celebration. "At eight o'clock sharp, Frank called the assembly to order. Prayer was offered by Brother Bell, asking divine favor and approval of the occasion wherein we might find happiness in the dance and the association of each other. "The grand march began promptly at nine o'clock. I can tell you, my heart beat wildly when Frank bowed and offered me his arm. My hour of triumph had come. I felt like a queen in the wide, flowing skirt with its rows of satin folds. The basque was stiff with boning and had its share of satin, too. From 733 my ears hung gold teardrop earrings. Everyone said they had seen nothing like them west of the Mississippi River. "To cap off a perfect evening, President Young himself claimed me for the waltz quadrille. As we passed the spectators, I heard people whispering, "Where did she get that dress?' "Yes, a dress can be very important in a woman's life. And dreams can come true if you don't give up," finished Grandma. She looked at Clarisse significantly and I knew the battle for a white or a pastel dress was lost. But somehow, I was glad, for what really shows off a dress to advantage is a radiant and happy girl inside it. I asked, "Where did you say you saw that changeable taffeta, Clarisse, honey?"