that will make the world sit up and take notice." David sighed heavily. "Oh, Mom, you don't understand. You're trying to keep Penny from life, from beauty. Work and_ struggle are beautiful... Don't you see?" OANNA tose and walked over to her dressing table. "No. I don't see. I can't let my visionary children ruin their lives. I've given too much, sacrificed too much." David rose slowly. "We owe you a great deal, Mother. I've. Never forgotten the way vou had to work when we were small. The winter mornings I would wake up to find you slaving over those ranges." more shining. 751 Joanna turned to face him.. "If you remember those things, David, you will do as I say. You will forget this missionary call for the time being, and you will stay home and watch over things while I take Penny on this trip." David was silent for a long time. Then he lifted his head; his face was quiet. "Something tells me that I am going to have the privilege of going on a mission. So, perhaps it is all might to stay home now A year is not long I can go when you get back." Joanna bent above the silver brushes on her table. "Plenty of time for missions plenty of time." In the mirror she watched him leave the room. He closed the door quietly behind him. Joanna looked at her reflection. She looked unutterably tired. But still her face had not lost its beauty, the silver wings of hair above her temples were becoming, they made the rest of her dark hair seem richer and She had put on weight in the last year, but it had smoothed away the lines that used to run sharply from nose to mouth. She looked brisk, and attractive and competent. She looked as if she would be interesting to know. Worldly, amusing. I'll need clothes, Joanna thought, and went to the closet to take inventory. Suddenly the thought of the people she would meet, the gay, witty, tolerant people, filled her with a frantic: desire to be gone. Pcnnv would. Meet someone devastating, and that would be the end of Mark Saunders. (To be concluded) Fun With Spools Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson BE": spools are such nice little wooden objects to paint. They are smooth and even in size and just the thing to hold small size candles. Show card colors or oil paints work equally well, and with little effort and lots of fun, you can decorate them to suit the occasion. Hearts and flowers in the Pennsylvania Dutch manner, letters to spell out "Happy Birthday," "Valentine Greetings," "Happy Faster," fancy stripes, or funny faces—you can think up many more. Surround the next birthday cake with a circle of spool candle holders, or use one at each place to hold the place card at your next party. It's fun to use simple things effectively! > November Moon Margaret B. Shomaker The blood-red moon hangs low upon the hill Against the darkened arch of indigo, And on the night a cry of whippoorwill, The low and doleful tone is long and slow. I bend my knees to ease and follow her As she wends her way upon the ground. But where? I do not see the grasses stir; Listening long, I hear no other sound. Slow over stubble field I move with care; The cornstalks, stripped of foliage, dry and still, And earth, man-scarred, is waiting for repair. The breeze foretells a winter white and chill; Across the field new hope in this November, My heart drinks full a beauty to remember. Page 752 You Can Learn PART II C Gs for Clay and D Is for Dirt Katherine Kelly E, were late with supper that night. In fact, we were late every night, unless we ate before Tom did the chores. I was a little silent, too. It didn't seem that I would ever learn. Even Mother said that I was a tomboy. Tom, eight years older than I, liked me to act dignified. Just that night I had forgotten again. I had been so happy when I'd seen him coming home from the fields that, since I was riding Betsy, bringing the cows home from the pasture, I had whirled her around and dashed off through the fields to meet Tom. Then I had jumped from the pony while she was still running, as my brother had taught me to do, and run headlong toward Tom. But the colt he was breaking had snorted, and reared and the team had started to run. Tom, who was a master with horses, had quieted them again in a few minutes. I had taken Betsy's rein and trailed slowly after him to the corral. Tom had been very angry. "Can't you see that you scared the horses and won't you ever learn not to run - that pony through the fields like that? She might have broken her leg," he had stormed at me. I had taken Betsy's bridle off and turned her into the pasture. Then I had leaned against the corral fence while Tom carefully unharnessed and fed the team. At length he had grinned at me and taken my hand as we walked toward the house. I felt penitent. Only this afternoon I had vowed that I would be a good farmer's wife. * * * "Let me help you milk tonight. I can milk, honest I can, I used to milk the little Jersey all the time at home." "That was different. I don't want my wife milking cows. You'll have enough to do in the house. Boy, does that fresh bread smell good!" he said as we opened the door and went into the house. I was happy again as I got out the wood alcohol to light the lamps and he took the milk buckets and went out again. We were very proud of those lights. They were gasoline lights and we had to warm them up with a wood alcohol torch, so it wasn't like just turning a button. But it was a sort of ritual with me and, when the lights came on so bright and beautiful, they were such a satisfaction. Brighter than electricity, we always said. They hung from the ceiling, too, and had a round glass bulb. Most farmers just had coal-oil lamps. As the room flooded with light, I looked proudly about the kitchen. The new plaster was smooth and white. It really didn't need kalsomine. The new white paint gleamed beautifully without a flyspeck as yet, and the blue in the oilcloth we Page 753 754 had put on that afternoon really complemented the bluebirds I had painted on the filmy, new curtains. I carefully shut the doors into the bedroom and the living room. We didn't have the money for paper and paint for them yet, but it wouldn't be long. Not many newly matried couples could build a brand new three-room house on a farm. It was stucco on the outside and I could just see how it would look with pink roses on a white trellis by the porch. Tom had thought that maybe two rooms would do because we would be moving into town in a few years. But I told him stoutly that I didn't want to move into town, that people who made their home on the farm where they could take care of things, always did better and I wanted a house that could be a home. As I set the table for supper I thought again about jumping off that horse and acting so unladylike. I was always too impulsive and careless. Well, I wouldn't do that again. Maybe Tom would rather I just stood framed in the doorway, the lamplight making a halo around my head like I had seen pictures of women waiting for their men. 'That's what I would do after this. WHILE we ate supper I told Tom about Daisy eating the little tree and how I had bandaged it up with mud. Tom was tired, but he smiled and teased, "Do you think that will help it?" "Well, sure, it will make it grow just like new. Mary thinks so, too." I knew that he would value Mary's opinion as he did her cooking. He had lived in his sister RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Mary's home for so long that he practically worshiped her. "And, honey, do you know what I was thinking today?" I decided to break the subject gently as I hauled in the sick lamb, box and all, and prepared to feed it some of the warm milk. "No, I'd never know what you were thinking of next, what is it this time?" "T was thinking that I could plant some lawn, just a little lawn, out in front here and when that tree is big we could sit out on the lawn in the shade." "Now, Kate, sweetheart, please don't get all those funny ideas. You just build yourself a heartache. You know we don't get the water turn often enough to keep a lawn alive. And you couldn't even get one to come up on this darned clay spot." "What do you mean clay spot?" I asked absently as I picked a few ticks off the lamb and put them carefully in the stove. "I think I'll spray this poor lamb with some fly spray. The ticks are eating it alive." "You know we built the house on a clay spot, don't you? This ground is just like that I hauled the straw manure on over by the south fence. It won't raise anything for years." "But—but why then did you build the house here? It is too close to Joe's fence anyway, or you could have built up nearer the road." "Dad said this was the place to build. 'Just as well put your house here, can't raise anything anyway, that's just what he said." "But I should think you would want your house where you could raise things best. I want currant YOU CAN LEARN and raspberry bushes, a garden, and flowers and everything." "My dear, that's the kind of farms they have in books. This is a real farm. This heavy clay soil won't raise flowers anywhere, much less on this clay spot. You'll find out about this soil before you have lived here much longer. Now I'm tired and am going to bed, coming?" "In a minute. I've got to think. And I want to wash the dishes." walked out onto the porch and on out into the moonlight. So this ground wouldn't raise lawn and flowers, and we only got the water every ten days! People who built their houses on clay spots so they wouldn't waste any good farming ground! I all but frothed at the mouth as I walked up and down in the moonlight. Still none of the other farmers around us had lawn and flowers. Maybe they couldn't have them. Some of them didn't even have trees. Well, I couldn't live that way. I'd change this soil! And Id have a rose growing there by that porch if I had to water it with dishwater. No, the pigs had to have the dishwater. I'd water it with water from the washbasin. And some way I'd have a lawn, too. A pheasant call sounded lonely from the fields and suddenly the spung night felt chill. I was glad to go back into the warm kitchen, dip some of the precious water into a pan, and wash the dishes. I dallied a little, putting the dishes away on the newly painted shelves. Then I took a chair and climbed up and turned out the bright gas light. Softly I opened the bedro