[Vol46 | October 1959 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V46_10_00_Misc]
Shese Cool Acres Dorothy J. Roberts Tonight I cannot sleep; not out of grief, Though well I might; not out of emptiness, For that is no less stranger; nor for pain, Now time has healed the cells of loneliness. I do not slumber, sensing I might lose The feel of autumn air, this sea-like tide Of coolness washing deeper than the skin, This urgent current washing valley-wide. The windew holds a single planct's light Strung on this silence lifting through the frame. No need stirs my tranquility save this Longing to give to gratitude a name. Following darker midnights I have known, I cannot pass in slumber, space so rare As these cool] acres set with stars and peace And leave unsung the gift of autumn air. The Cover: Farm Scene in Northern California Photograph by Ward Linton Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Frontispiece: Autumn Along the Snake River, Wyoming Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From lear and Sar I will be a senior in high school next fall, and although I do not go to Relief Society just yet, I really enjoy the Magazine and read it every month. ""The Silver Leash" (concluded in August 1959) is one of the best stories that IJ have ever read, and the poems are always so wonderful. —Janey Freeman Chandler, Arizona Our family has enjoyed two years here while my husband has been vice-principal of the Church College of New Zealand. I have had the honor and privilege of being Relief Society president in our College Ward, since it was organized right after the dedication of the temple. The sisters are all faithful participants, mainly faculty wives, and we all look forward each week to the wonderful lessons which are outlined in the Magazine. We all enjoyed the visit of President Spafford and First Counselor Sister Sharp while they were in New Zealand. —RMrs. Maxine Jones Temple View, New Zealand The Magazine has so many worthwhile features. I have certainly enjoyed Mrs. Parson's serial "The Silver Leash" and Margery Stewart's Poem "Coit Tower' (in the July Magazine). All the comments and articles on the editorial page are always worthwhile and inspiring. —Norma A. Wrathall Sunnyvale, California I have greatly enjoyed reading the Magazine since I was a girl in my mother's home. I am happy for the inspirational, beautiful lessons outlined. 'The literature in the Magazine equals the best to be found. The cover designs are all beautiful, but I especially like the one showing the plaque in the Relief Society Building (November 1958). I like the prize-winning story "Goodbye and Good Luck, Mrs. Kelsey" by Norma Wrathall in the January issue of the Magazine, also Sylvia Probst Young's poem "Parting on the Prairie." My great desire is to continue to read the Magazine until my days are finished on earth. —Marion Sagers Shields Roosevelt, Utah Page 642

The splendid story "Granny Will Be Waiting" (by Betty Martin, June 1959) is wonderful. I enjoyed it very much. The author must be praised for such a beautiful, sweet story. I loved Dougie and Tessie, the cat. All the production of our dear Magazine is truly wonderful and a rich blessing to all who read it. —Helen McQuarrie Salt Lake City, Utah The August Magazine just arrived, and I am truly thrilled with it. Its beautiful cover, like the others that have been published this year, is the height of artistic perfection. —Mrs. Delta Williams Nucla, Colorado I was limited in the books and magazines I could take with me to Europe. The Relief Society Magazine, howevcr, ls with me constantly, a precious treasure from home. JI have just re-read "Now Let Us Rejoice," the cditorial in the March 1959 issue of the Magazine, and I, too, rejoice! I love London and the English people. Each day has been filled with joy. Stratford-on-Avon, Windsor Castle, Parliament Square — the glorious London temple, and so many historic and literary names are becoming vividly real to me. —Anna B. Hart Member, General Board of Relief Society London, England Refreshed and uplifted from the fourth reading of Margery S. Stewart's pocm "Coit Tower," in the Julv issue of the Magazine, around me I feel the imperceptible air and the extensive blues; beside me my precious family, recalled to a similar place. Is it not good that someone so loves God and people and words that she lifts pen to prove it? The new color covers for the Magazine are a thmnill and a delight. —Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah T enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much, the literature and theology lessons especially. —David Sail Chelmsford, Massachusetts 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spatford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - - = + Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stoddard Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring

VOL. 46 OCTOBER 1959 NO. 10 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Editorial and Business Offices: 76

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (2 segments, 12,418 chars) ===

Concerning the Savior Jesus Christ, we have the testimony of the Lord himself in the Ninety-third 646 Section, wherein he bears witness to the remarkable testimony of the apostle John: Jesus Christ lived as a Spirit before he came into this life — "He was in the beginning with the Father'; that he is the creator of worlds; he is the Savior, "'a messenger of salvation"; the life and light of men; and by his being the Son of God in the Spirit and also in the ficsh, he thus fulfilled his great role as the Redeemer. He teceived a fulness of the "glory of the Father" and all power was received by him. By understanding these wonderful truths concerning Jesus and accepting them literally in faith, we then, as the revelation points out: "may understand and know how to worship, and know what you [we] worship, that you [we] may come unto the Father in my [Jesus'I name, and in due time receive of his fulness" (D & C 93:19). NOTHER segment of knowledge which is so necessary to understand is a true conception of man and his destiny. From 'The Doctrine and Covenants we are given to realize that every person is a literal child of God, and as such lived before he was born in mortality (D & C 93:29.) Since he is of divine birth, man may, through his obedience to the plan of salvation, reach a divine destiny (D & C 76:58-60; 132:20, 21). These important truths point up the purpose of earth life. It isa place where the spirit child of God is given opportunity to "work out his salvation," a process of proving himself. A connection is made between the spirit and body in earth life, which, through the resurrection, may give a fulness of joy or exaltation (D&C 93:33, 34). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 As we continue our thinking along these lines, we could in no wise neglect the great revelation known s "The Vision," Section 76. Without doubt, this revelation provides for man his greatest "look" into the future as a resurrected being. But this particular revelation is not alone in providing essential knowledge to man. 'There are many others, such as Sections 88, 93, 130, 131, and 132. By these revelations, we have come to know that for every soul there is a just reward awaiting the eternal child of God. Levels of opportunity, beginning in pre-existence, continuing in earth life, then the spirit world, until eventually the resurrected being is either crowned with the glory of the Eternal Father, and as a joint heir with Christ in the mansions of exaltation, or, on the other hand, to receive, commensurate with his obedience to eternal law, a place of honor where there may be further development. "He saves all" says a revelation, except the relatively very few who become "laws unto themselves." When this theological fact is contrasted with the narrow and intolerant creeds of men in the days of Joseph Smith and of our own times, we can better appreciate the greatness of God's plan. Our Father in heaven is solicitous for all of his children and has provided the means whereby they may receive, if not all, a measure of his glory. But, in order to do so, they must place themselves in accord with divine laws either in mortality or in the spirit world. The truths of the gospel, as made known to Joseph Smith, far transcend anything which man has uncovered in his attempt to understand himself and his relationship to Deity. Further an- . SEEK LEARNING EVEN BY STUDY." alysis of some of these important truths is not possible at this time, but lessons yet to be developed in our course of study will bring them to our attention. The element of foretelling or prophecy is apparent throughout the modern revelations. 'There are literally hundreds of "prophecies and promises" given in The Doctrine and Covenants. Of these the Lord has assured his saints that: What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same (D & C 1:38). ANY of these promises may test our faith, but the great blessings of the gospel come to him who learns "by study and also by faith." To the Lord's "elect," who are such because of their answering the call of his servants, there has come guidance in how to live in fulfilling the purpose of one's creation. Such practical information as contained in the Word of Wisdom is an example. Although I am not one who believes that the revelations have to be verified by some external evidence, we Latter-day Saints have learned that, given sufficient time, our books of scripture, where possible, receive confirmation by man's research. An example of this kind has come pointedly to our attention in the past few years concerning the already known harmful effects of tobacco smoking. But, how meaningful and important it is to know that evidence is continuing to increase in support of the fact that lung cancer and cigarette smoking are definitely associated. This is 647 but one evidence of the fulfillment of a prophecy, and also the promise of health and other blessings by observing the commandments of the Lord. An insight into present world conditions and the immediate future is provided in the modern revelations. Every Latter-day Saint knows that we are living in a world which is beset with tremendous problems, especially that of the involvement of the world in war. The Lord has spoken and declared that peace would be taken from the earth in this dispensation. 'The history of the past several decades certainly should bring to our attention that we are in such a period. In fact, the Lord's Preface to 'The Doctrine and Covenants declares that Joseph Smith was divinely commissioned, in part, to warn the world of impending judgments. Whcerefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the carth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets... That faith also might increase in the carth; that mine everlasting covenant might be established (D & C 1:17, 18, 21, 22). This same wonderful revelation makes known that one of the principal purposes of the revelations is that they might be a "voice of warning" to the inhabitants of the world. We may thus see that the Lord's word is to go to all the people of the carth in addition to those who have accepted him. The same assurance is given in this great book of scripture, as in others, that the testimony of the Holy Ghost is available to all who will seck for that divine witness. 'he 648 reality of the life beyond this earth life is a part of the message of 'The Doctrine and Covenants. Within its pages one will find records of the visitation of heavenly beings in our generation, and thus it becomes a witness of the reality of the resurrection. The testimony of Sidney Rigdon and the Prophet Joseph Smith stands out prominently, as given in these words:.. The Lord touched the eyes of our understandings and they were opened, and the glory of the Lord shone round about. And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before his throne, worshipping God, and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, ancl we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father (D & C 76:19-24). The witness of the Spirit of God even transcends sight-knowledge; for, the witness, the Holy Ghost, may continue as a day-by-day experience throughout one's life. One of the objectives in this course on The Doctrine and Covenants is to "study by faith," believing these revelations as the word of the Lord for us of this generation. As I wrote on another occasion: "As one so studies and becomes better acquainted with the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants, his gratitude and love for the Prophet Joseph Smith deepen. " One realizes that through this divinely appointed seer the full rich stores of heaven have been opened that men may be guided back to their heavenly home. One learns to appreciate more fully RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 that it is through Joseph Smith that this generation has received the word of the Lord. He becomes more firmly convinced that: Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it (D & C 135:3). There is also full agreement with what Joseph Smith and the members of the conference convened in November 1831, believed when they said the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants were "the foundation of the Church in these last days" (D. H. C. 1:235). Wilford Woodruff, fourth President of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, said that The Doctrine and Covenants is "our testament, which contains the most glorious, Godlike, solemn, and eternal truths ever recorded within the lids of a book." Among the great number of eternal truths which should be remembered these two are worthy of particular attention: But learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come (D & C 59:23).... If your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things (D & C 88:67). The Lord has given these promises, the fulfillment of which is certain, if we study by faith and incorporate into our lives his teachings as revealed in this the greatest of all dispensations of the gospel. 'This ls my testimony to you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. pee Leland VanWagenen AUTUMN IN THE WASATCH MOUNTAINS, UTAH 2 Vet Beauty Comes Iris W. Schow We move, compliant to the strident voice Of time, who neither looks nor turns his head, While many words and many melodies Are lost when duty points. Our daily bread Is dearly bought with precious joys cut short. The fragrant breath of roses must be brief In mingling with our own. Doors close on stars, The lily yields our senses to our grief. Yet at the close of life we shall recall How summet's trying days were edged with flowers, And smile, remembering the tender words With which we cheered each other's winter hours. I Page 649 She llorthern California ITlission Preston R.

---

senesstsuseenss OE Zone State. Co occceccccccceeeceeeseeees eeeeceees Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. 2. I SAW ANOTHER ANGEL FLY Carter E. Grant Here's a history of the Church for teen-agers... One they will enjoy reading. The vocabulary used is suited to a young person's understanding and presents a clear concept of the principles of the gospel and highlights of Church history. A must book for the home where the Restored Gospel is held dear. $3.00 be See— ee ee ad TRICK or TREAT? The choice ts yours If you were suddenly faced with the responsibility of providing for your family without your husband's steady income, would it be "trick or treat'' for you and your children? It would be a cruel "'trick," indeed, to have to face this situation without the financial resources that only life insurance can provide so well, at a cost that virtually every family can afford. New Beneficial Life Insurance plans offer unequalled flexibility to suit your needs. Among them are the Family Benefactor Plan (provides insurance for every member of the family); the Planned Futures Program (provides funds for all of the various needs you anticipate now or in the future); and the Commercial Whole Life Plan (gives ® you insurance in amounts of $10,000 or more at bargain rates). Ask your Beneficial agent about them. Dept. RS1059 — Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah i I I Please send information about the following plans — with 1 no obligation, of course. \ l L] Planned Futures; [[] Family Benefactor Plan; [] Commercial Whole Life; Other cee ane., Srsurance Company Bi BENEFICIAL LIFE NOM ene eeecec cee ececceeeeeeceenececeeeecues vatesseeesssseaeeseseesesesseeeeeceeee l Virgil ENS mi ares Salt Lake City, Utah

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (1 segments, 2,464 chars) ===

--- Ad from: Birthday Congratulations ---
$8.00 Foam, all thicknesses, for making slippers and padding. Ginghams Dan River checks and plaids 79 yd. Dacron Bats 1# and "3 Dolls, all sizes undressed and dressed Tote Bags, all sizes Sequins—glitter—glue—beads—shells. Stryfoam, balls—eggs—sheets. Candles in glass—colored beeswax. Orders shipped day received. Toys - Handicraft Supplies Hobbies - Sporting Goods - Gifts WHOLESALE — RETAIL TINGEY'S COUNTRY STORE "Handicraft Center Of The West" 3456 North State Highway 91 Lehi, Utah Phone PO 8-2852 Page 711 ye Cleans ifls "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY_ FATHER'S BUSINESS?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library a $2. 00 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program $2.00 SOUVENIR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PLATE: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents $3.50 SEGO LILY JEWELRY: A. Pins 1. Double gold-filled $5.50 2. Gold-filled._ - -$3.75 B. Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant..$6.75 C. Necklaces 1. Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant --$9.75 2. Light chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant $6.00 Small Relief Society emblem pin (12 kt.) gold - $1.75 All prices include federal tax. Page 712 Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main SALT LAKE CITY 11, UTAH K lireNoc P* Sil Vii; july 1. COMMENTARY on the BOOK of MORMON Volume IV George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl A classic commentary that offers fascinating insights into the world of the descendants of Lehi in ancient America. Volume IV contains chapters 27 through 44 inclusive of the Book of Alma and explains each important passage in relation to other LDS Scriptures. $4.00 I Deseret Book Company I 44 East South Temple y Salt Lake City, Utah ' Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find I 0.0.0 check I have an account. I Please charge. Money order enclosed _ in the amount of $.0000000.. For (encircled) ' numbered _ books: l 2 I Nae oii cece cee ceee cece cen enee ceceeneeseuee ces eee ccc ceccccessceccqcaeeeeacieeseeececeeeeeeeeeesaecccecrsesenscataseesecessietatesstesieeecaeeeeteteeesterees I BA rOSS one co ccc cece cee ceee eee ceetee eevee cee tne eeeta ees ccaseesaseeccecessersateescaereneceseceseeceeeseneecenescicesscs cesessaeicctev