[Vol46 | October 1959 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
- Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 3—The Role of Emotional Maturity in Spiritual Living Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, January 26, 1960 Objective: To analyze some of the factors influencing development of emotional maturity and to develop an appreciation of the importance of emotional maturity in living the fulness of the gospel. The Powerful Influence of Home HE home is one of the most powerful influences affecting the development of emotional maturity. President McKay once said: In the homes of America are born the children of America, and from them go out into American life American men and women. They go out with the stamp of these homes upon them, and only as these homes are what they should be, will children be what they should be (McKay, Davin O., Pathways to Happiness, page 119). The degree and quality of emotional maturity which are developed in the home are closely related to what is expressed in the behavior of parents; for children identify very closely with the feelings, attitudes, and behavior patterns of their parents. Emotional maturity, likewise, is affected by the instruction which children receive from their parents, although what parents do undoubtedly influences their children more than what they say. Emotional maturity is influenced by the way in which parents help children face and solve problems, develop skills in getting along with people, accurately perceive the world of reality, and objectively analyze situations, find creative ways of meeting new situations and developing flexibility and skill in meeting and accepting change. As was pointed out in last month's lesson, there are many types of behavior which would be appropriate during childhood which are completely inappropriate in adulthood. During the early years, the home plays a most significant role in determining whether or not one is helped to lay aside childish ways of reacting and encouraged to develop new and more mature ways of behaving. There are, of course, other forces which affect maturity besides the home. Many of these exert influences which are both good and bad. There are economic forces that keep some homes insecure. 'I'here are community forces that breed antagonism and tensions between groups. 'There are forces within some schools which perpetuate various ignorances, snobbishness, and emotional provincialism. Certain religious elements generate intolerance. Some peer groups wield a great influence, particularly during adolescence. Such forms of mass media as radio, television, magazines, and newsPage 701 702 papers also make powerful influences which come into the home. 'They may be so powerful that individual fathers and mothers, no matter how mature they may be, may experience real difficulty in trying to combat them. Influence of Cultural Heritage Another powerful influence in the individual's development of emotional maturity is his cultural heritage. Many of the practices of past centuries and decades can be classified as evidences of social immaturity rather than a lack of knowledge. Consider, for example, such practices as the control of autopsies and medical studies of the human body. For many centuries those in the field of medicine were not permitted to treat an individual who was sick unless he had permission from the priest. Physicians were not permitted to perform autopsies in order to discover what had caused death. Consider also the persecution of Galileo for having different ideas, for putting forth some new theories, most of which later on were proved to be correct. In our own American history, recall the burning of witches at the stake. Perhaps we could validly consider the theory that cultures mature, too. If we compare our modern culture with the distant past, we see many evidences of increasing maturity on the part of cultures. Many of the contradictions of our present culture are not only symptoms of immaturity, but thev function so ngidly that they are forceful perpetuators of these immaturities. It is not easy, even at best, for the individual to build sound knowledge linkages with his world, and it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 becomes even more difficult with the inconsistencies and contradictions which confront him. For example, some parents send _ their children to school and want them to bring home grades they can view with pride and at the same time talk about the impracticabality of what is learned in school, and admire pcople less for what they know than' for what they own. Professed Ideals vs. Actions The modern society is one in which the Sabbath day avowal of the brotherhood of man is contradicted by the weekday fight for his own survival and enrichment: In which political speakers repeat the great phrases of 'Uhomas Jefferson or George Washington or Woodrow Wilson — supposedly honestly believing them—and then make shady political deals; in which the average citizen expresses pride in the Ametican Bill of Rights and then secks to protect his own real estate by restrictive covenants. 'This, then, is one view of the culture which produces our teachers, our parents, administrators, school board members, political leaders, presidents of civic organizations, church leaders, etc. It is not surprising that in many of our schools, students are insidiously lcd to believe that the mature art of thinking for themselves is dangcrous. It is dangerous so far as their own prospects are concerned, at least, for who is going to want to hire a person who is known to be "different" or "radical" (OvEersTREET, Harry A., The Mature Mind, pp. 248, 249, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., Publishers, reprinted by permission). Remember what happened to the Savior, to Galileo, and to Joseph LESSON DEPARTMENT Smith? 'Their ideas were different and radical in their day. The Role of Emotional Maturity The role of a mature adult living in a nuclear age, can never be one of passive and uncritical acceptance. It must be a role in which we participate in creative and objective evaluations of the many new forces, alternatives, and decisions which we surely must face. 'The mature adult is one who thinks, meditates, values, tries to foresee consequences, and is actively confronting life and trying to do what needs to be done to improve life. The mature person is not afraid of life, rather he actively seeks to face it on as many fronts as his capacities and limitations permit. To live as an effective person in our rapidly changing society of today, the mature person must have graduated from home and school with an awareness of what will be expected of him by society. He should have successfully developed from the stage of thinking, "Please help me," to "I can take care of myself," to "Please let me help you." Mature living must carry with it the capacity to accept illness, disappointment, and those things which are beyond our control. It is associated with a sense of security, in spite of the many doubts which occur in a rapidly changing and expanding world. If we are mature we must accept responsibility for our own acts, and not blame others for our failures or assume credit for success when we do not deserve it. Results of Maturity There is an urgent need for mature leadership in our society and communities. A mature person, 703 because he understands himself and others, is better prepared to meet the tasks of everyday living with more confidence, and is, therefore, more capable of wisely and intelligently leading others. Increasing emotional maturity promotes and accompanies good mental health. The individual who acquires a sense of self-reliance because of the experienced consequences of his own actions can obtain great satisfaction in the simple occasions of life and the common experiences of men. He does not have to rely on the extraordinary, the unusual, or the exotic. He searches for adequate resolutions of more immediate problems, not for final answers; he wants the respect of others, not their praise, he wants their understanding, not their adoration. He engages in activities to satisfy himself through his own participation in them, not to impress others. Results of Immaturity In contrast, the immature person whose world is largely bolstered up by the authority of others has built his world upon sand. He has not measured his own capacity of choice in concrete situations; his value judgments are not his own. He can meet new situations only with blundering or imappropriate reactions, with scheming, with violence, or with mounting frustrations due to his own inactivity. 'Uhe mature person, however, has better mental health because he has fewer fears and anxieties and possesses a greater sense of serenity and a functional kind of peace of mind. Maturity Necessary for Progression 704 Use this advertisement as your order blank EASY ORGAN COLLECT ONS FOR THE CHURCH ORGANIST AMATEUR ORGANIST— NO. 28 and NO. 29 ea. 2.25 ASHFORDS EASY VOLUNTARIES 0002 eeeeeeeeeeceeeceeeeeeeeee es 2.25 CHRISTMAS VOLUNTARIES.. 1.00 EASY CHURCH VOLUNTARIES 22..0-002222eeeeeceeeeeeeeeees 1.50 EASY POSTLUDES 1.50 EASY WEDDING MUSIC 1.00 FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3 ea. 1.50 FORTY-THREE ORGAN OFFERTORIES. 2 2.-2020002 1.50 GOSPEL HYMN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1 and 2 ea. 1.50 ONE PAGE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3, 4 ea. 1.50 PORTFOLIO OF CHRISTMAS VOLUNTARIES _ 2---220000+ 1.00 PRELUDES FOR SERVICE 1.50 PRELUDES FOR WORSHIP 1.50 SIMPLE ORGAN VOLUNUN 2 I 1.50 Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Name Address CJ On Approval LI Charge [J Money Enclosed City & State o. Oo eeccceecseccccecsssssnnnceeceeeenes '' 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 Emotional maturity is essential to the Latter-day Saint concept of progression, for certainly this is one of the ways in which eternal growth and development have the potential to occur. Many of the challenges of the gospel of Jesus Christ require the characteristics of an emotionally mature person in order successfully to accomplish them. ' The following passages in The Doctrine and Covenants emphasize the importance of possessing emotional maturity in order righteously to administer the Priesthood: Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson— That the mghts of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord ls grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen (D & C 121:34-37, 39-40). These explanations of why many are called but few are chosen describe symptoms of immaturity. Such things as having " hearts set so much upon the things of this LESSON DEPARTMENT world " (D & C 121:35) and ",. To cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness " (D&C 121:37) are all descriptions of immaturity. Emotional maturity is likewise essential in order for one to be capable of living such teachings as:... Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself (Mt. 19:19). Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you (Mt. 5:44). Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is_ perfect (Mt. 5:48)..... How oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times? Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but Until seventy times seven (Mt. 18:21-22). Without enumerating further, let us recognize that one cannot possess the skill and ability genuinely to love, forgive, be concerned about the welfare and well-being of others, etc.,

without being appropriately mature for one's age. If we are to live the teachings of Christ and be prepared for leadership in our society as well as in the kingdom of God, it is important that we make a concerted effort toward increasing our emotional maturity. Maturity Necessary for World Survival Modern advances in transportation and communication are bringing Our neighbors of other lands closer and closer. The almost unbelievable advances in nuclear 705 HAWAIIAN TOUR Leaving Nov. 5th and 12th Prices start at $485.58—fly both ways, round trip from Salt Lake City. Visit Oahu, Kauai and Hawaii (Less $66.33 if tour is met in Oakland) TOURNAMENT OF ROSES PARADE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR 8 days including San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico MEXICAN TOUR February 1960 and June 1960 also student tour in June 1960 Visit Book of Mormon places. For itinerary write or phone ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Phone: EM 3-5229 Salt Lake City 3, Utah EL 5-0268 science and weapons of war point up the necessity of men learning how co-operatively to live in peace together. Anything less than this could easily mean mass destruction of civilization and man himself. If we have persons in positions of leadership in government who are basically immature and hit out at others with the frustration of an infant, they can do harm beyond measure. If, on the other hand, we have leaders who are emotionally mature, they will be more likely to lead their respective countries down a road of peaceful living which may see mankind raised to new heights through the constructive use of his own inventions and the adherence to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Emotional maturity, like exalta- (ZICO INI I classic nvlon sown by Phil-Maid Lovely classic style in nylon net tucked into lavish folds. Wear in loose fashion or tied in with matching ribbon. Blue yellow, lavender or pink. Sizes (32-34), M(36-38), L(40-42) XL(44-46). 2.99 ZCMI LINGERIE—Downstairs Store co eee) - Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following gowns: Postage 18c first item, 7¢ each additional. Utah residents add 22% state tax. Page /06 LESSON DEPARTMENT No tion, ls achieved individually. One else can do it for us. We cannot become mature all at once. We advance toward it little by little. Each step we take in this direction will lead us and our fellow men from a world in which there is considerable chaos and confusion because of the exploding horizons around us towards a world which, in spite of almost unbelievable expansion, will be characterized by those clements which will make up the kingdom of heaven on carth. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Consider some of the specific influences which contribute to the development of emotional maturity. 2. Consider some of the specific home situations which hinder the development of emotional maturity. 3. Discuss some of the specific ways in which cmotional maturity Is essential to the Latter-day Saint concept of progression. 4. It was suggested in the lesson that emotional maturity is essential in order for one to be capable of living sevcral of the teachings of Jesus. List some other teachings in addition to those which were suggested in the lesson. 5. What are some of the things which you might do to increase your level of emotional maturity? 6. What are some of the specific things which you might do within your home to help other family members increase their degree of emotional maturity? 7. The lesson suggested that emotional maturity is important in living the fulness of the gospel. What is your opinion? Be specific in defending your position. Supplementary References Evans, Riciarp L.: "The Courage to Face Facts,' The Improvement Era, JanuaTV 1957, Page 79. REINERT, Pau. C.: "Mature Minds in a Mature America," National Parent-Teacher, Vol. 53, September 1958, pp. 4-6. 707 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Recommended Music for the Special November Sunday Evening Program My Redeemer Lives—Gates SSA — Per Copy, 20c My Testimony—Ashton SSA — Per Copy, 10c NEW, just off press sacred and secular piano album - Vol. 2 by Seldon N. Heaps Price $1.00 Please add postage to above GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 246 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah 708 O 0560-0 0D) DD CD) 0D (D0 D0 -(¢ HAWAII TOUR Latter-day Saint group going to Hawaii in November 1959. On all Hawaii tours avoid disappointment and make reservations early, at least one month prior to departure. ROSE BOWL PARADE We have a Rose Bowl Parade Tour leaving in December. Inquire early and make early reservations. EUROPE 1960 Reservations made anywhere in the world, chartered tours or individual. MARGARET LUND TOURS 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: CR 7-6851 Gj e, (SD (RD () ED (RD (SD () ND () AD () DC) AD () AD ( ) AD) D> () D> () ND ( ) ND () ND () ED () D(C) DSD (> ED () ED (> D> () <> () ND (SD () ND () ND (ND (D(A ( ) ND () ND () ND () SD () ND () ED () ED () ED () EE: e* ©, ED) SEP () ED () GED () ED (ED () ED (ED 0 ED () DD () Dl) % 0 o" Supplies for All Popular Handicrafts Foam and Plastic Tote Bags All Flower Materials Aluminum Trays—Mosaics Copper Tooling—Copper Enameling Basketry—Textile Paints Shellcraft—Boutique Materials Ceramic Supplies And many, many others. ZIM'S 240 East 2d South Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 Younc, Vasu: "I Share This Plan for Living," The Instructor, January 1958, pp. 6-7. Sounds Fle Mlissed Lula Walker The roar of trucks, the boom of jets My child well knows, nor does he fail To recognize the screech of brakes Or piercing sound of siren's wail. But there are sounds I wish he'd heard— The friendly creak of buggy wheels, The welcome ring of dinner bell That spoke of hearty country meals; The sleigh bells on the frosty air, Sled runners' crunch on hard-packed snow As horses' hoofs beat sharp tattoo. Such pleasant sounds my child won't know, Nor loveliest of our neighborhood— A cow bell's tinkle through the wood. She Wa ich Olive Peabody Y father's big gold watch was one of the first objects that became familiar to all of us as children. Every baby who sat on Father's comfortable lap was allowed the privilege of hearing the watch tick and of running childish hands across the shiny, gold-engraved surface of the outer cover. Each one learned quickly that the next treat was inside, and with excitement would say, "Open! See, Mamma!" A pleased smile always took form around Father's mouth, and his intense blue eyes softened as he clicked open the cover in order to THE WATCH show the picture of her. 'The face that smiled back at us belonged to a beautiful girl of eighteen. She wore a bow in her hair and one on her dress, modifying the stiffness of the high collar. It would never make any difference what changes time brought to this face, as the watch ticked on in endless fashion, Father would always see Mother as she was in this picture that he wore next to his heart. It was odd, but as we grew older the watch did not cease in importance to us. We learned from it in turn — how to tell time, our Roman numerals, a little about mechanism, engraving, and jewels, punctuality, unity, and the rates of speed. Our nightly walks with Father took us past the local jewelry store, where we would pause while he checked the accuracy of his timepiece and wound it. After this usual ritual, he would click the cover shut and say, "It is right by the sun, moon, and stars and can tell the price of wheat in Chicago." When we were little, we didn't understand this, but we accepted the watch and anything in connection with it as a stabilizer in our midst. ATHER carried it until eleven months past his _ seventy-first birthday, when he passed away. After that, the big heirloom was always with Mother — by her bed at night and in her purse when she went out in the daytime. My brother gave her an electric clock, but she put it in the guest room. Father's watch was her purveyor of time — and we felt it was also a comfort to her. She lived only a short time after being separated 709 ARE YOU AN UNPUBLISHED AUTHOR? IF YOU HAVE A BOOK LENGTH MANUSCRIPT you would like to have published, our editorial staff will be glad to consider it on a co-operative basis. OUR PROGRAM _ HAS LAUNCHED MANY NEW WRITERS. Submit your work for free editorial evaluation and further information. We consider all types of material: Fiction, Poetry, Juveniles, Religious Books, Educational, and Scholarly Work. GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS, INC. Attention: Mr. Wright 489 Fifth Avenue New York City, New York SEARS ROEBUCK AND co. NOW A 30 DAY CHARGE ACCOUNT AT SEARS you select the way to pay on Sears Revolving Charge. Use as a 30 day charge or take six months to pay. "eyoee ney dee" SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. Salt Lake City, Ogden, Logan, Provo, and Price, Utah 710 HOLIDAY TABLECLOTHS Easy to clean embossed Polyethylene plastic. No Washing — No Ironing — Colorful Fruit and placemat pattern to grace the THANKSGIVING and Fall Festive Tables. * * *k *k Candelabra — pine cones and poinsettias in red, green and gold. Bring cheer to CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS. Especially attractive for Dinners— Banquets—Parties Sizes 54° x 5AM lo llieceeceeeeeeeeeeeeee79¢ each 5A TBM lee eccee cee eeeeneeee99¢ each oY a 2 0 re$1.29 each 54% x 1087 Loe$1.49 each Plus 11e¢ each for postal delivery. Postage prepaid on orders for one dozen or more. Shipments made during October and November and until December 10th Mrs. George L. Carey 1506 East 3115 South P. O. Box 2253 Salt Lake City, Utah Last fall over 5000 above cloths sold In stores—~Ogden—Salt Lake City—Provo area © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utoh Rate Up to 150 miles 0 35 150 to 300 miles 0.39 300 to 600 miles 0000000 45 600 to 1000 miles.54 1000 to 1400 miles.64 1400 to 1800 miles — 000. 2. 76 Over 1800 miiles 20.0.0. 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 from her life partner, but she kept his watch as carefully wound as he always had, so I was shocked to find it not ticking the morning she died. I picked it up and attempted to set and wind it, but nothing happened. Although the watch was old-fashioned and heavy, it carried with it many memories, and so my brother: took it to the jewelery store to be repaired. 'I'hen, after leaving it for a ten-day period, he went back to pick it up. The jeweler shook his head and said, '""Uhis watch has served its last master. 'here is no use spending money on it. It is completely worn out." There was no other place for it, so it went into a box of old keepsakes, and there it stayed until some members of the family saw how old pieces of jewelry are taken apart and incorporated in clear plastic in a decorative manner to be used as a panel, or a desk or dressing table top. We are in the process of having this done, so that once again little fingers will be examining the wonders of Father's big watch, and young minds will be learning new things from it. Autumn Wind Eva Willes Wangsgaard Now bountifully autumn brings A wealth of hours newly shined, While days rush by on painted wings And leave a lonesome sound behind. Birthday Congratulations