NOTES AND NEWS.

	Margaret Dale Owen is writing and speak-
ing in favor of an original dress-reform garb,
which is called the Dale-Owen robe. She is
granddaughter of Robert Owen.
	Fanny Kemble is living in England. A
visit from her is expected at Lenox, Mass.,
and the people there will give her a warm re-
ception. The clock and bell in the tower of
the Congregational Church were a present from
her.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar will not return from
Europe until October, being detained a month
longer than she anticipated by the serious ill-
ness of her husband. She writes the Journal
from Wiesbaden; Germany, that they hope to
be able to sail with the City of Rome, leaving
Liverpool, Sept. 28. Their summer has,
been spent in traveling through Ireland,
Scotland, England, Wales. Holland, Belgium,
France, Italy, Switzerland, Austria and Ger-
many. Mrs. Gougar will probably spend a
few days in Boston before going West, begin-
ning her platform work November 20, under
the auspices of the Chicago branch of the Red-
path Lyceum Bureau. Besides her lectures
upon woman suffrage and temperance, she will
give her popular lecture upon "Ireland" and
her new one on "Party, Press and People."—
Ex.
	Great satisfaction is felt at the extension of
the municipal suffrage to women in Ireland.
This has been effected by a bill for the reform
of the Municipal Corporation of Belfast,
hitherto elected on a very restricted franchise.
An act has been passed which assimmilates the


conditions of the Municipal Franchise of Bel-
fast to those which prevail in Great Britain,
and this reform includes the extension of the
suffrage to women- The operation of the act
is limited to Belfast, but there can be no doubt
that a similar rule must be extended ere long
to all Irish boroughs. Meantime, it is possible
that without special legislation the ordinary
law, coupled with the Interpretation Act and
the usage in Great Britain, may sustain the
claim of women in Dublin and other districts
to be put upon the municipal register when
next the lists are revised.—Ex.
	The history of the New Zealand Woman's
Franchise Bill is encouraging and instructive.
The encouragement is derived from a compari-
son with the fate of a similar proposal in 1878.
In September of that year, in Committee on an
Electoral Bill, an amendment was moved by
Mr. Wallis to omit the word male from the
clause relating to the qualifcation of electors.
This amendment was rejected by thirty-six
votes against twenty-six, showing a majority,
in 1878, of ten against woman suffrage. This
year the second reading of Sir Julius Vogel's
Bill was carried by a majority of nineteen, an
advance of opinion which would seem to be
decisive on the question. If the suffragists
had accepted a limitation of property, the bill
would have passed; the principle of woman
suffrage would then have been irrevocably es-
tablished in the colony, and its further applica-
tion would have been simply a question of
time.—Ex.


