REUNION OF THE PRATT FAMILY.

	About 200 members, relatives and friends of the
families of the late Apostles Parley P. and Orson
Pratt assembled at the residence of Sister Marion
R. Pratt in the 19th Ward, September 19th, in
honor of the 76th anniversary of the late Apostle
Orson Pratt. There were present representatives
from the families of four brotherse, viz.: Anson,
William D., Parley P. and Orson Pratt. Among
the invited guests were Prest. D. H. Wells, Prest.
A. M. Cannon, Patriarch John Smith, Elders A.
M. Musser, William Willis, Joseph Bull, Sen.,
Bishop Frederick Kesler, Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, Presendia L. Kimball, Zina D. H. Young,
Susan Snively Young, and many others.
	The spacious lawn was surrounded with double
width sheeting, and a large canvas formed an
awning over the seats and platform. The stars
and stripes were waving to the breeze, denoting
liberty and freedom. A large American flag fes-
tooned the platform, upon which sat an organ, and
on each side stood large poplar trees, from which


[Column 1]

hung the life size portraits of the late Parley P.
and Orson, painted by the artist, Lorus Pratt. Ad-
joining the lawn, and under the shade of the grace-
ful poplars, a table, 100 feet long, was spread with
the bounties of life in great profusion, and flowers
decorated the board. The life size likenesses of
Parley P. and Orson, which were arranged at each
end of the table, seemed to be looking on the
scene with satisfactory approbation. The coat of
arms of the Pratt family, nicely executed with the
pen by Valton Pratt, hung conspicuously on the
wall of the house. About 3 p.m. the whole assem-
bly took seats at the table, and after grace to the
Giver of these bountiful blessings by Prest. A.
M. Cannon, regaled themselves with the tempting
viands which were profusely provided for the oc-
casion.  After dinner the company repaired to the
lawn, and were called to order by Elder Milando
Pratt, and the following programme rendered:
	Opening hymn, "Lo, the Gentile chain is
broken." Prayer by Elder Parley P. Pratt. The
following opening address, written by Elder Laron
Pratt, was read by Elder Milando Pratt:
BRETHREN, SISTERS AND FRIENDS:
	I have been called upon to make the opening
address on this interesting occasion. I am very
much pleased to see before me so large a gather-
ing of relatives and friends, and in the name of
the family I bid you a hearty welcome, and hope
peace, joy, thankfulness, and kindly feeling will
characterize this gathering.
	It is very good, very pleasant and profitable to
have such family reunions, wherein we can inter-
change thoughts, greetings and remembrances,
and
RENEW OLD ASSOCIATIONS,
and I hope to see many such gatherings, that a
feeling of love and affection may disseminate
among us, and bring us into still closer relations
of kinship.
	We meet to-day to celebrate an occasion which
should be to us a pleasant memory, and to con-
verse of one whom we all loved and esteemed,
who filled the measure of his creation and has
gone hence to render an account of his doings
here in the flesh, and to continue the good work in
a higher sphere.
	Our father, relative and friend. Orson Pratt,
whose seventy-sixth birthday anniversary we are
celebrating, lived to the alloted age of man, being
a few days over 70 years of age when he died.
He was a man of humble mien, possessed of great
intelligence and many sterling qualities of heart,
the most conspicuous among which was his
staunch integrity and valiant, unflinching defense
of the principles of the Gospel which he advoca-
ted. Fifty years of his life were given to the pro-
mulgation of the principles of truth. Earthly
honors and ambitions were as nothing to him. The
glittering bauble of worldly wealth had no attrac-
tion compared to the beauty and glory of human
salvation. These things never made him swerve
from the path he had chosen. He was a friend to
all humanity in the fullest sense, when the spiritual
condition of mankind was concerned. His con-
stant thought was how to elevate his fellow beings
and fit them for a more exalted plan of usefulness.
His heart was set upon doing the greatest amount
of good to the greatest number, and performing a
grand and glorious work for the salvation of the
sons and daughters of God. From the time he
was a youth of nineteen until he was taken from
our midst,
HE LABORED INCESSANTLY AND HUMBLY
for the welfare of mankind. His mind was wholly
devoted to accomplishing the purposes of God, as
he understood them, and he went forth without
purse or scrip and traveled very extensively on sea
and land, spreading the Gospel of life to many na-
tions of the earth, prophesying of the things that
were coming to pass and of the destruction that
would overtake the wicked and corrupt.

[Column 2]

	Few men have labored so incessantly and earn-
estly for the accomplishment of such a grand and
glorious purpose as the saving of poor fallen hu-
manity. And as his prophetic voice was raised
long and loud in proclaiming the glorious princi-
ples of salvation to the nations of the earth while
he was here in the flesh, so, also, will his works
and teachings, left on record, speak as with the
voice of thunder to those whom he has left behind.
Such a work as he has performed will leave an
indelible impression upon those who have heard
him in life. It needs no special exertion on our
part to keep him in remembrance, for although he
has filled his earthly mission and laid down an
earthly form, hls work among the people of God
will never die, and may it always be kept green
among his family by pleasant gatherings like the
present.
	Again, his great mind was constantly exercised
not only in relation to the salvation of the living,
but also the
SALVATION OF THE DEAD;
those who had died without a knowledge of the
Gospel. So earnestly did he wish to secure to
them all eternal life in the presence of their Hea-
venly Father, that he spent considerable time in
helping to compile a book of records of the Pratt
family and its branches containing over 3000
names. From this record we can now trace our
lineage, with its numerous branches some 300
years. During the latter part of his lifetime he se-
lected most of these names and then called upon
his family and relations in this territory to perform
certain ordinances in the house of the Lord for
these deceased ancestors and friends; thus open-
ing to them their prison doors in the spirit
world.
	But he was far from doing all he intended. He
has left this unfinished work for his sons and
daughters, his relations and connections to con-
tinue until it is accomplished. Should we not be
proud to labor in this noble work which is al-
ready planned out for us? We should wake up to
the necessity of bestirring ourselves in the matter,
and unite as one in such a glorious purpose. We
must remember that life is short, and we were not
born to waste away our time in idle pleasures.
Our Heavenly Father gave us mortal existence
for a little season to see what use we will make of
it, and if we do good we will be worthy of a bet-
life; but if we throw away our opportunities, then
our chance of eternal life will be commensurate
therewith.
	My brothers and sisters, let us be
FAITHFUL, EARNEST AND VALIANT
in the good work; let us be united with love and
affection for one another; treat one another with
consideration and kindness, being charitable in
all things, aud follow the illustrious example set
before us by our father and friend, that our minds
may be filled with the light and intelligence of the
Spirit of God, and when our earthly career is
ended we can look back over our lives with satis-
faction and glorify God therefor.
	May the Spirit of God rest upon you, that your
joys and pleasures may be unbounded this day, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Song, Miss Viola B. Pratt; Recitation, Ortherus
Pratt; Violin Solo, Prof. Willard Weihe; Duet,
Mrs. Ethelmina Pratt and daughter Maud; Reci-
tation, Miss Ruth Eldredge; Song, with guitar
accompaniment, Mrs. Lizzie Felt; Music, har-
monicas and guitar, Valton and Samuel Pratt aad
Walter Musser; Song, Miss Claribell Ridges;
Maori Song, Milson R. Pratt; Quartett, Libbie,
Viola and Mathoni Pratt, and Wm. Bailey. Ap-
propriate and encouraging remarks were made,
and interspersed throughout the programme, by
President D. H. Wells, President A. M. Cannon,
Elders A. M. Musser, William Willis with song,
Alma Pratt, and Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina

[Column 3]

D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kimball and others.
The following Tribute to Orson Pratt was then
read:
