WOMAN'S VOICE.

	We have arrived at a time in the history of
our Church when individuals have to stand
upon their own foundation, rely upon their own
faith and knowledge concerning the work of
God.
	Now is the time when every person ought to
have a testimony for him or herself, whether
this work that we are engaged is of God or
not. If we do not have the knowledge that it
is true, it shows very plainly that it is because
we have not deserved to know; we have not
asked or we should have received; we have not
knocked or it would have been opened unto us;
we have not sought or we would have found,
in fulfillment of the promise, "Ask, and it shall
be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you; for every one
that asketh, receiveth, and he that seeketh,
findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be
opened." (Matthew, vii, 7).
	Now, my young friends, do you believe that
that passage of Scripture means what it says?
Have you ever tested it? If so, which is it,
true or false? It must be one or the other, and
it is your privilege, your duty to know for
yourself whether that passage is true or not,
for that knowledge is the corner stone in the
foundation of true religion; it is the rock upon
which it is built, even the rock of revelation,
and the "gates of hell shall not prevail against
it."
	If that passage is true, we can ask for de-
sired knowledge or blessings, and if we ask in
faith believing, we shall receive. What a
blessed privilege! Do you not agree with me,
my young friends, that it would be well to "be
on speaking terms with God," and test this
principle? Make Him your friend while you
are young, by heeding the divine injunction,
to "Remember thy Creator in the days of thy
youth." By so doing you will have abundant
evidence that the Gospel of Christ is true.
After having obtained this testimony we must
walk humbly and faithfully, discharging every
duty that is required of us, for our religion is a
practical one, requiring works as well as faith,

[Column 2]

for we show our faith by our works, just as a
tree is known by its fruit.
	The Gospel, or the building up of the king-
dom. give all who desire to be useful an oppor-
tunity to cultivate their talents, extend their
usefulness and be a blessing to mankind, by as-
sisting to build up and promote all the inter-
ests of Zion. No one need feel that there is
nothing for him or her to do in this great Lat-
ter-day work; there is room and work for us
all, old and young, large and small, and all
will receive the reward of their labors; so let
us be diligent and ambitious to perform well
our part, putting our shoulders "to the wheel,"
and bravely lifting our share.
	I have heard some of the elderly people tell,
and have read of others, how they fasted and
prayed for days to receive a knowledge of the
truth of this work, or to receive certain gifts,
how they pleaded with God to grant their peti-
tions, and He did so, giving them the desired
blessing. Do you not think the same cause
would produce the same effect in our day
among the young people? Why is it that
none (to my knowledge) of the young people
who have been born in the Church have any
particular gift, such as many of our parents
possess? Let the youth of Zion answer this
question, and ask themselves if they ever
sought to obtain them as their parents did?
We do not desire these blessings, if we are
not willing to earn them, and how can we ex-
pect to receive something we do not earn. But
it is absolutely necessary for us all to obtain a
testimony that this work, called "Mormonism,"
is true.
