A DELIGHTFUL MEETING.

	(The meeting of the sisters, held in the 14th
Ward, on Saturday, September 3rd, was one of
unusual interest. The gathering was large.
	After the opening exercises, President M. I.
Horne gave the time to the sisters to occupy as
they might feel led by the Holy Spirit. Counselor
E. Howard was addressing the congregation from
the stand, when surprise and joy suddenly filled
every heart and lighted up each countenance.
This happy effect was occasioned by the entering,
unannounced, of Zion's venerable, honored and
beloved Priestess and Poetess,Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith. This being her first appearance in public
since her recovery from the very severe illness
which she has lately endured, it was no wonder
that the hearts of her sisters should overflow with
unspeakable pleasure and gratitude at again be-
holding her in their mid t.
	Sister Howard closed her remarks, and by in-
spiration, the leader of the singing started the
favorite hymn,

	"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest
	In the high and glorious place."

Every one sang, and every one wept tears of un-
utterable praise, love and thanksgiving.
	The singing closed, and Sister Eliza arose and
addressed the delighted congregation at some
length in her own clear and distinct voice, and
calm, dignified manner.
	The substance of her remarks were, that Zion
must be purified; that the work of cleansing will
not cease until this end is accomplished. As indi-
viduals we must so live that faith may be in-
creased within us, drawing nearer and nearer to
our God day by day. We must not allow our-
selves to entertain the least hard feeling towards
any one, not even our enemies, and those who
persecute us.
	Following President E. R. Snow Smith's re-
marks, many of the sisters bore testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, the goodness, mercy and
power of God, and also of the healing, prophetic
and marvelously consoling gifts with which the
prophetess Eliza is endowed.
	The meeting was certainly one to be ever
cherished with loving gratitude in the memories of
those who were so favored as to be present.
		L. G. R.)


