REMINISCENCES.

	"I stood beside the self-same rippling brook,
		The soft wind whispered to me as of yore,
	And all the landscape wore the conscious look
		Of having known me many years before.
	All things familiar seemed, and yet how strange,
	To think in me how passing great the change."

	Going over old places, that have once been
familiar, awakens in the mind many recollec-
tions that have slept, as it were, in forgetfulness.
Seeing an old friend, one we had known in the
past, but who had almost faded out of memory,
what a train of kindred associations it calls up.
We are all of us, perhaps, more or less suscep-
tible to these impressions and remembrances,
yet they differ, no doubt, in strength and force,
and in degrees of intensity in different indi-
viduals. The present age is one in which the
fashion, one might say the rage, for the antique
prevails; yet more in tangible forms than senti-
ment. The young people of modern society
glory in  old paintings, not always for the
painting itself, but the simple fact that it is
old. Old china, old household furniture, even
the spinning wheels, either for wool or flax, on
which the ancient dames, their ancestresses, did
"a good day's work" of a given number of
skeins, forty rounds to a knot on the reel and
sixteen knots to the skein exact; these old
wheels are bronzed and decorated with rib-
bons. Immense pots and kettles, in which
their great-grandmothers made soap, or cider
apple-sauce, or pumpkin butter, or perhaps the
more delicious maple sugar, these, too, are now
considered ornamental; once they were necessi-
ties in domestic labors.
	While visiting in the Eastern States, not
long ago, I had a very good opportunity to see
and to hear much of this furore for "the old."
Tea parties, where the oldest-fashioned costumes
were worn, trimmed with the oldest laces of

[Column 2]

the most curious patterns; then the style of
table etiquette must correspond; the conversa-
tion must be of the superstitious order—ghosts,
witches, haunted houses and gnomes, being
interwoven, and all colored deep with mystery,
that not even a graduate from Smith College
or Cornell could unravel; nor would they try,
that would take away the charm. Often, when
hearing of these little incidents, I used to
think I should have an inexhaustible stock of
material for future use; but as yet I have used
comparatively little in any way of the fund I
collected. Nor have I digested it, either; it
still remains in its crude form as I gathered it
here a little, and there a little. It is pleasant
and gratifying to re-visit the scenes of one's
childhood, or to go over historic ground, and
to call upon famous or celebrated people; in
any and all of these there is a charm that is
more easily understood than expressed. But
when one associates constantly the ideal and
the real, and sees more than the actual sur-
roundings, it is almost like revelation. I think
I know what it is to be practical, but if there
is no poetry in the running brook, and no idea
conveyed to the mind, except its utility, how
very commonplace it would be. Yet when a
child I was told again and again that the brook
that I loved so much to listen to, that seemed
to me a dear companion, and with which I oc-
casionally conversed, was "not all my fancy
painted it," and compared to the large rivers
it was of little value, it served no particular
purpose, except to beautify the landscape, and
the boys now and then caught a few speckled
trout in its waters, that the dandelions and
long grasses and cowslips were very homely.
Still, notwithstanding all the depreciation of
my playmates, somehow or other I loved this
little winding, rippling brook, and it was to me
an ideal picture in my mind, with all the set-
tings and colorings of an idealistic vision. It
wound through and out of a hemlock grove,
one of the most romantic spots that I have
ever seen. Here in my girlhood I rambled up
and down hour after hour, reveling in dream-
land and drinking in the external beauty and
quietude of this, to me, perfect bower of grace
and beauty.
	Nothing ever brings back to me the peculiar
aroma of the hemlock. I remember it distinct
from all other perfumes; more intensely fragrant
than flowers, and more capable of diffusing its
odor. The sighing of the pines, poetical as it
may seem, and is, for I, too, realize and appre-
ciate the weird and thrilling refrains they sing,
but the hemlock woods, in point of beauty and
exclusive fascination, are still more charming.
I am proud to confess my partiality for New
England hemlock. If I could choose a resting
place, where my friends and loved ones might
come and tenderly linger, remembering how I
loved them, it would be such a place as I knew
in childhood; beneath the sweeping boughs of
fragrant hemlock, where the tangled vines grow
thick and luxuriant, and mosses and ferns,
soft as velvet tapestry, with here and there a
snow-white blossom peeping from under the
mass of dark evergreen, or a few scarlet berries
that cluster together, making a beautiful con-
trast to the dark green, and all the while the
brook sings on and on a ceaseless strain, and
the zephyrs whisper melodiously low and sweet,
or the evening breeze sighs and moans and
groans 'mid the overhanging boughs, or the
night wind whistles shrill and sharp, then
softens to the mournful refrain of a hymn to
the dear ones departed.
	But I digress; I did not mean to speak of
death, or graves, or burial places, but of the
places which have made such perfect pictures
for me in memory's gallery. Wherever I went,
it mattered not who was with me, I was in
reality as much alone in soul-thought as though
no human life was near me. I found not one
whose feelings were like mine. These were not

[Column 3]

sacred places to them, but so common that they
wondered to see me gather up fragments of the
past, and spend so much time in tumble-down
churches and ruins of old houses, but most of
all to traverse woods and fields and by-paths,
closed since the railroads came, or discontinued
for nearer and safer ones. The little red
schoolhouse under the hill, where I taught one
summer, the last one spent in dear New Eng-
land, just to test my capacity for teaching,
since a dollar and a half a week was then con-
sidered a good salary, and many of the young
teachers, "boarded round," and the very fact
of "going through an examination" was a per-
fect terror to a bashful girl of fifteen, but I
made up my mind, and though I trembled like
a frightened bird, "I passed;"—much to my dis-
appointment the school house was gone, and a
small brick one had been built on the other 
side of the country road. They offered to show
it to me; I cared not for it, it was not the picture
I wanted, and I looked with a sort of conde-
scension, as it were, upon the rather self-confi-
dent young teacher who essayed to tell me how
difficult she found it to conform to the habits
of the quiet country life among the hills, and
no wonder I thought it absurd, when it seemed
to me such a restful place, where there was no
whirl or bustle or excitement, and one might
wander "fancy free" over the hills and through
the meadows, day in and day out, aside from
school hours, and no questions asked, no diffi-
cult problems to solve, no newspapers even to
read except the prosy country journal, and you
know beforehand all the jokes, and the only
interest in it would be the regulation poem, by
some old maid, who wrote for mere pastime.
	If the school house was gone, the old low
brown farm house: where I boarded that sum-
mer, was still standing, and when we drove up
the slanting road, I fancied I could see the
kindly, pleasant faces of the farmer and his
good wife, and the sanded floor, and the green
bushes in the fireplace, and the snow-white
linen, and all the plain household furniture, as
it was so many years ago. I insisted upon
stopping, and found all were strangers, but
very genial, and willing to show me over the
old place.
	The farmer and his wife were dead, and all
those I had been associated with there were
gone. I went into the room where I used to
sleep, remembering so well all its former ap-
pearance, the white dimity curtains, tied with
blue ribbon, and the scent of the lilacs and
roses coming thro' the open window, and the
dear old southernwood, and here I had enjoyed
the quiet after school hours; and in the early
morning, when on my way to the school room,
the troops of children, merry, laughing little
girls and boys, would meet me half-way down
the road with fresh flowers, and I was so happy,
and life seemed so bright and joyous, and no
shadow fell across my pathway—now after all
these long years, I soliloquized, where are all
these laughing, merry little folks? Grown to
sober men and women, many dead and forgot-
ten in the places that once knew them. Each
had gone his separate way and filled a place
peculiarly his own. Our ways are scattered,
and our work diversified. We meet occasion-
ally on the great highway with those we knew
in childhood, but even then our duties may lie
far apart.
	I traveled thirty miles from Boston on the
train to find a dear school friend of my girl-
hood days. I had no idea how she would re-
ceive me (as she knew I was a Mormon), but
I risked it for the old love of school days I had
cherished. My heart beat fast as I went up the
steps and rang the bell. I asked for Mrs.
L——; in a moment she came. I rose; she
gave me one searching look, and I said, "I
have come from afar to see you." She put out
both her hands, and each repeated the other's
name, and my dear friend said, "It is like one
risen from the dead!"	AUNT EM.


