SALT LAKE STAKE.
	(The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
September 15th, 1887, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. On the stand were Coun. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs.
M. W. Snow, Mrs. Anna Ivins, Mrs. R. R.
Grant and presidents of branches.) Conference
opened by singing, "O, happy souls who pray."
Prayer by Mrs. E. Howard. Singing, "Our
God, we raise to Thee," etc. Roll called, 23
presidents and 10 counselors responding.
	Remarks were made by Mrs, Ivins, Prest. of
the Relief Society of St. George Stake: "I en-
joy hearing reports; I feel we are doing a good
work. I have had the help of the Lord and
of some good sisters, without which I could
not have done as well as I have in my labors.
If ever we lived near the Lord, we should now,
more than ever, these are such perilous times.
we never lose anything by attending to our
meetings. It is our duty to learn all we can,"
etc.
	Mrs. Grant, Prest. Relief Society 13th Ward,
this city, said, "I am pleased to meet with you;
it is good for us to meet together. I do regret
my not being able to hear my sisters. I visited
in Franklin, Idaho, attended Sunday School
and Relief Society, and had a very nice time.
I look with pleasure to the time when we can
fully enjoy our religion, which we will as soon
as the Lord sees fit. We should be wise, and
earnestly keep the Mormon motto—"Mind our
own business." We have got to put away all
jealousies and envy, and everything that will
tend to keep us back in our duty. We should
never use the word 'can't'. Let us try to
overcome our timidity; let us feel anxious to
be a benefit and blessing to our sisters and to
each other, and stand up and testify of the
goodness of the Lord to us; then let us en-
courage each other in every good work."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke on reports very
clearly and intelligently, and said, "I earnestly
pray God to bless the secretaries."
	Coun E. S. Taylor very emphatically re-
peated Mrs. Kimball's prayer, and said, "God
bless the secretaries! for they do want the help
of our Father." She also spoke on reports,
and gave good practical instruction.
	Prest. Horne said, "I am thankful to see so
many of my sisters out to conference. Sister
Eliza had a feeling that the Relief Society
should be pruned and dead branches cut off.
Let the teachers ask the sisters what their feel-
ings are; do they feel to sustain the organiza-
tion? etc. I would like to say that the ordin-
ances of the house of the Lord are only for
those who have been through the Temple and
received the right to such blessings, the faith-
ful and humble. Let us think of these things
and study them. We must not let our sym-
pathy run away with our judgement."
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing,
"Praise to the man," etc. Benediction by Mrs.
M. W. Wilcox.
	2 p.m.: Conference again opened by singing,
"Jesus, the giver," etc. Prayer by Mrs. B.
W. Smith. Singing, "we thank Thee, O God,
for a Prophet." Minutes of last conference
read by secretary and accepted.
	(Mrs. Zina D. H. Young said, "I am much
pleased to meet with my sisters. I have, since
I last met with you, visited the Relief Society
of Rexburg, and traveled to many branches in
Idaho, held many good meetings, and comforted
many by administering to them, though it is a
very healthy country.) Many of our young
brethren are taking hold and honoring their
positions as Bishops, while the older brethren
are living to counsel them. We need the good

[Column 3]

and wise to encourage and teach us. Let us
pray for our enemies; and let us pray for the
Congress of the nation, that they may not be
partakers in shedding innocent blood. We
have every confidence in our leaders. We are
becoming purified. Let us show the world
that we have something better than they have
by living righteous lives."
	(Sister E. R. S. Smith said, "I have learned
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things; in sickness, in trials, in pain, and in
everything. God rules and over-rules in all
things for the welfare of His people.) Do we
keep in view that God sent us here to hold
high and responsible positions? We? Yes, we!
the daughters of the Most High God. Where
are we going to? Just where we prepare our-
selves to go! He has revealed the three
glories; we can reach the highest if we will.
Are we thinking more of the things if this
world, or are we doing our duty? Are we liv-
ing so as to have revelations for our own bene-
fit and welfare? We can secure the right to an
eternal increase if we are true and faithful and
live as children of God. We cannot compre-
hend all the glory that pertains to this great
work. (Before Zion is redeemed every heart
will be tried to the core; the Lord will have a
tried people; all will have to be one in every-
thing, even to making our own clothing, and
being independent of our enemies. I stand
before you as a witness of God's mercy and
love) I can sympathize with the weakest
Saint; to be able to do Father's will is what I
wish to live for; no matter what our enemies
call us, what does it matter? We have Jesus
for our brother, let us draw near to God, and
put from us everything that is low; let us be
awake; let us overcome all fault-finding; we
will have darkness before we have light; let us
have no fear; fear and faith do not dwell in the
same bosom; let us lay aside fear and have faith
in God our Father; God has a programme and
He will carry it out; let us be thankful all the
time. I will say to my sisters who go out to
visit, set a good example, keep the word of
wisdom. I pray God to bless you all; do His
will; draw near unto Him; there is a glorious
time in store for us if we are fsithful."
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow said, "I am very
much pleased to meet with you all. I rejoice
to see Sister Eliza with us again; I feel God's 
hand has been over her for good. I have been
absent in Mexico for some time; the climate is
lovely, water good, land good for small settle-
ments. The Saints there feel well, and have
a hope that their reward is sure. I feel that
the Lord will over-rule the colonizing of that
land to the growing and increase of this work.
The people there are suffering some severe hard-
ships; necessaries very, very scarce; some quite
destitute; but still they are cheerful and hope-
ful; nearly all are poor; not many rich are
there; nearly all are exiles. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primaries were organized
while I was there. I saw the ravages of the
late earthquake; and I also saw in the fissures
of the earth springs come up, good water, and
it will prove a blessing to the people; so the
Saints acknowledge the hand of the Lord.
I am thankful that I am one with you in help-
ing to roll on this great work; when we are de-
prived of blessings we learn to appreciate them;
let us not falter, for the hand of God is moving
on the face of the earth; His work will go on;
our brethren are in prison, but those who are
persecuting us will yet be in a prison that they
will have to appeal to a higher court than any
on this earth. I pray God to bless each of us
and to strengthen the weak and feeble."
	Coun. E. S. Taylor said, "We have a very
great treat at this conference; let us put in
practice the teaching we have had; let us walk
in the path of duty, in the straight line of do-
ing right. Any duty He calls on us to per-
form, He will help us in carrying out, if we


[Column 1]

are faithful. I pray God to help us in this our
hour of need, and that we may not have any
more to pass through than we can endure."
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "I have been blest in
hearing Sister E. R. S. Smith talk to us. We
have been blest of the Lord all the time; in
our greatest afflictions, when we were prayerful
wa enjoyed ourselves and were happy. Our
trials will seem light if we keep in view the
glory that awaits us. I have no fear but that
this Church is laid on the right foundation."
	Prest. Horne said, "This has been a good
day for the women of Zion. We are living in
the last dispensation; miracles have beep per-
formed in the persecution of this people in this
land; the Lord is blessing us in our holy re-
ligion; we have been cast out as evil, but it
don't hurt us; we know we have the light; we
have a grand prize in view; we are suffering
not near so much as the Savior did when He
was on the earth, and our hopes are to dwell
with Him in eternity; we have to come up
through much tribulation; our salvation is sure
if we are faithful. She also asked the sisters to
try and contribute a small sum each to our
destitute sisters in Mexico.
	Conference adjourned until December. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent," etc. Benediction
by Mrs. Mary Freeze.
