UTAH STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake convened on September
2nd, 1887, Prest. Mary John presiding. Con-
ference opened by singing and prayer. Minutes
of the previous conference were read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial reports from
the various branches in the Society throughout
the county were also read.
	Sister John was thankful and pleased to meet
with us again. "Our reports are good. When
I reflect on the means that we handle, I am sur-
prised; it is considerable, and a great help to
the poor." She desired to be humble and
prayerful and diligent in all things.
	The presidents of the different branches in
the Stake gave verbal reports of their respec-
tive organizations, showing the exertion of the
members, or the faithful few to do all in their
power to help roll on the work of the Lord, as
the time was far spent. Conference adjourned
till 2 p.m. after singing and prayer.
	Conference opened at 2 p.m. with singing
and prayer. Presidents A. O. Smoot, H. H.
Cluff and D. John were present.
	Prest. Cluff occupied some time in speaking
to us, giving good and timely advice in regard
to our children, the youth of Zion, exhorting
mothers to keep a strict guard over their sons
and daughters; said we came here that we
might raise up a pure race; spoke, also, on the
word of wisdom. "Let us try to reform the
rising generation. We as a people to-day are
lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God,"
etc.
	Prest. John had listened with pleasure to
the speakers before him. "We are blessed in
being able to be here to-day. The devil is full
of jealousy, envy and strife, trying to thwart
the plans of the Almighty. If parents do their
duties in example as well as precept in rearing
their families, if the children will not heed the
teaching, then the parents are excusable."
Spoke against sending our children to outside
schools, showing the evil of so doing, etc.
	Bro. Graves spoke a short time in the inter-
ests of the silk; said there had been a new
President and Counselors appointed for Utah
County; hoped the sisters would continue to
raise cocoons.
	Prest. Smoot made a few remarks on the silk
and other subjects, more particularly the youth
of Zion. Said, "I would like to impress upon
you the necessity of throwing influences round
your children to shield and protect them from
evil; see what kind of company they keep; train
your daughters to shun the appearance of evil.
Your children are your glory, and you neglect
them at your peril. Know what company they
are in, and that they are at home at early
hours," etc.
	Prest. Mary John said, "We will now adjourn
our conference for three mouths."

[Column 2]

	Singing, "Praise God, from whom all bless-
ings flow." Benediction by Bishop Loveless.
