WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Weber
Stake was held in the Ogden Tabernacle, Sept.
8th, 1887, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding.
On the stand were Prest. L. W. Shurtliff and
Counselor, two or three Bishops and Counsel-
ors, Hattie C. Brown, Emily Shurtliff and
others. Meeting opened by singing, "Now let
us rejoice." Prayer by Bishop Gale. Singing,
"And are we yet alive." Minutes of the pre-
ceding conference read and approved Semi-
annual reports of the various wards throughout
the county were read by the Stake Secretary,
showing the branches of the Relief Society to
be in a flourishing condition.
	Prest. J. S. Richards was weak and ill in
body, but was thankful to God for strength
given her to be present once more with her sis-
ters. Was well pleased with the full reports.
Spoke of the anniversary of the organization
of this Society ten years ago last July, which
she had hoped to celebrate, but could not,
owing to the sickness and death of our beloved
President Taylor. Said she often read the
minutes of that first meeting, when President 
Young was there,and derived encouragement
therefrom. Gave the sisters some kindly ad-
vice concerning their reports. Said she was
pleased to announce to them that Sister E. B.
Wells was present,and knew that all would be
edified in listening to her.
	Sister E. B. Wells was delighted to
be present at conference in this county again.
Spoke of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith's im-
provement in health; said she had just recent-
ly been out of town, rode in a buggy eighteen
miles, and she hoped yet to be able to attend
conference in this county. She sent her love
to all the sisters. Spoke of the great interest
that was manifested in these organizations of
ours throughout the world, and on the Sand-
wich Islands some of the sisters had walked
thirty-two miles to attend their last R. S Con-
ference there. Felt to bear testimony to the
truth of this great work, and to acknowledge
the hand of God in all things. Thanked the
sisters for the very liberal donations they had
made to the Deseret Hospital, and especially
appreciated the labors of Sister Richards, and
her earnest and untiring efforts in benefitting
that institution.
	Sisters Douglas and Maycock each reported
her society in a prosperous condition, and said


[Column 1]

they were looking forward to the time when
those who are in authority would be permitted
to associate with and visit them. Prayed God
to point out our duties plainly to us, and aid
us by His Holy Spirit to do the same.
	After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until 2 p.m.
	2 p.m.: Meeting commenced by singing,
"Come, all ye sons of Zion." Prayer by
Bishop Thomas Wallace. Singing, "Praise to
the man," etc. 
	Coun. H. C. Brown said she was pleased to
see so very many here, and was thankful, too,
for all the blessings of God; felt to rely entirely
upon Him for strength and power to do His
will, and felt to thank the Lord that Prest. J.
S. Richards and Sister Wells and so many of
the sisters throughout the county were able to
attend this conference.
	Coun. Emily Shurtliff was always glad to
meet with her sisters, and felt that we had
brought a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit
with us, and would be blessed in meeting to-
gether to day.
	Sister Almira Raymond never felt more de-
termined and anxious to serve God and keep
His commandments than at the present time.
Prayed God to bless us and keep us humble
and prayerful.
	Sisters Ellis, Taylor and Bingham all felt
well, and rejoiced in the Gospel and their
duties in the Relief Society, and hoped to
prove faithful.
	Sister E. B. Wells, in her remarks, said she
thought it was quite as important for each
member to be energetic and faithful, as it was
for the President and officers to honor their
position, and that we should be very charitable
and pray for each other in our various duties.
Gave an interesting account of a visit she had
made to her old New England home, and
spoke of the necessity of the best of order to
be observed in the meetings of the Saints in
all their organizations, as we can be more suc-
cessful in accomplishing good if we observe
order and method in all our undertakings.
Said her greatest desire was to do good, and
prayed that we all would feel a desire to edu-
cate ourselves and perfect ourselves in the
glorious principles of the Gospel, so that we
can teach our children and the youth of Zion.
Thought we should be more charitable towards
all our brethren and sisters.
	Prest. L. W. Shurtliff was glad, as he al-
ways was, to meet with the sisters in conference, 
and hoped soon to see Sister Snow Smith in
this county; would move for a special meeting
at any time she was able to come, and would
circulate the news of a meeting throughout the
Stake, and have printed notices distributed, so
that the Tabernacle would be filled to welcome
her.  He then called for a vote from the sis-
ters to sustain Prest. Jane S. Richards in her
office and calling in this Stake of Zion by their
faith and prayers and good works. The vote
was unanimous. Prayed that we might be
humble even as little children, and ever do the
will of God.
	Coun. C. F. Middleton felt proud of the
privilege of associating with so many noble
men and women, and made some very good re-
marks.
	Sister McBride, Prest. of Eden Ward, was
proud of a place in the Church and kingdom
of God, and felt to rejoice now, even as she
did while drawing her HANDCART across the
plains. Gave some excellent instructions on
the word of wisdom, and the great blessings
that would follow the observance of the same.
	Prest. J. S. Richards thanked the sisters
for their attendance to-day; felt desirous of
doing good as long as she lived, and hoped to
have the faith and prayers of all the sisters,
and asked for a vote to sustain her Counselors
equal with herself in the labors pertaining to
the Relief Society. The vote was unanimous.

[Column 2]

	Meeting adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."
Benediction by Elder ——
	MATTIE B. CANNON, Stake Sec.


