TO THE COMMITTEE ON INVITATION:

	DEAR BRETHREN:—I hereby acknowledge the
receipt of an invitation to attend the commemora-
tion of the birthday of Orson Pratt (deceased)
by his numerous family and many friends, to take
place on the 19th inst. I very much regret being
unable to be present on that occasion, previous
arrangements having been made to do vicarious
work for the dead of my father's house, in Logan
Temple. It would have gratified me much to have
participated with you in the celebration of the
natal day of so great and good a man as ORSON
PRATT—a man who did honor to the names of
Husband, Father and APOSTLE. He was a pro-
found student of nature. He attained the dazzling
height in the realms of mathematics to which but
few men ascend in any one generation. He was
no less profound in his acquirements of divine
knowledge, as his many works abundantly attest.
His logical acumen, and unusual mental powers,
were brought to bear in lucid reasoning to portray
and establish the faith and doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in so
masterly a manner, that many thousands of the
disciples of that faith owe their conversion to the
truth to his earnest and extensive labors at home
and abroad. By divine inspiration, he has left an
impress upon this generation that will not be
effaced. He has left behind him choice memories,
that will live in the recollections of a host of
veterans in the great cause of humanity, and a
name and fame  that will survive the loftiest monu-
ments of the world.
	Yours fraternally,
		GEO. G. BYWATER.
Sept. 17, 1887.
	At about sundown the benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Joseph Bull, after which the
lawn was beautifully illuminated with engine head
light lamps set at each end of the lawn, and the
younger members of the various families enjoyed
themselves in the romp and dance. In addition
to the accomodations already mentioned for the
pleasure of the gathering, there were nicely ar-
ranged croquet grounds, swings, two large tents
pitched, etc., etc., throughout the garden and
orchard, and the children, from the babies upward,
enjoyed themselves immensely.
	Before his death, the late Apostle Orson Pratt
was very fastidious about having family reunions,
and one was contemplated and arranged to take
place immediately following the October Confer-
ence, in the year in which he died, and so anxious
was he about its taking place, that he did not want
it deferred should he himself be unable to attend,
or should he pass away. But he died on the 3rd
of October, 1881, and his funeral was held at the
commencement of the conference, therefore the
family did not feel like holding the reunion so soon
after his demise, and it was postponed.
	Following is a brief account of the ancestry of
the illustrious Apostles Parley P. and Orson
Pratt:
	About the year 1632, Leiut. Wm. Pratt and his
reputed brother, John, came from the parish of
Stevenage, in Hertfordshire, England.
	It is supposed they first came to Cambridge,
Mass., in 1632, or previously. They afterwards
settled at Hartford, in 1636. William sold his
land in Hartford about 1645, and removed to Sat-
brook, where he became a large land holder. It
appears, from the records of the State and other
sources, that he was a man of no inconsiderable
note in the colony, as he represented the town of
Saybrook in the General Assembly of the Legisla-
ture some twenty-three sessions, up to the year of
his decease.


The pedigree of Lieut. Wm. Pratt, the settler,
can be traced backward three generations, that is,
to his great-grandfather, Thomas Pratt, of Bal-
dock, in Hertfordshire, who died in Feb. 1539, just
100 years previous to the date when the settlers of
Hartford drew their home lots. The line of de-
scent is as follows:
	Thomas Pratt, of Baldock; Andrew, the son of
Thomas; Rev. William Pratt, the son of Andrew;
Lieut. William Pratt, the first Pratt settler in
America, the son of Rev. William Pratt; Joseph
Pratt, the son of Lieut. William Pratt; William,
the son of Joseph; Christopher, the son of
William; Obadiah, the son of Christopher; Jared,
the son of Obadiah; Anson, William D., Parley
P., Orson and Nelson, the sons of Jared.


