Y. L. M. I. A.
	Minutes of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Conference, held Sept. 16th, 1887,
Prest. M. A. Freeze presiding. Opened by
singing, "Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young. Singing, "Beautiful Zion."
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. The semi-annual reports were also
read.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball addressed the meet-
ing: She thought more of the young ladies
should attend the Associations, since mutual
improvement comes through change of thought.
Referred to marriage, and thought the object
of marriage should be thoroughly understood.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young said, "Man is at our
head, and will be for eternity; but we are al-
lotted our work, and should magnify that work
as much as possible." She referred to the
revelation given to Emma Smith, and advised
all to read it.
	Mrs. Lucy Kimball Smith said she had en-
joyed the remarks, and preferred to listen, but
being called upon she felt to do her duty.
Thought we should pray for the officers of the
Church, and uphold them in their action, and
we should never oppose a principle of salva-
tion.
	Mrs. Weiler felt for herself that this is the
work of God; that we should be more faithful
than ever before, and that God will pour out
His Spirit upon us.
	Miss M. E. Cook said she experienced em-
barrassment in addressing the assembly, but
felt highly edified with the proceedings. Re-
ferred to the marriage covenant, and thought
the one solemnized in the Temple of God the
only legitimate one; thought it highly neces-
sary to have a good knowledge of religious
science in preference to other knowledge.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith wished the room were full
at this conference, but supposed schools kept
many away who might otherwise attend. She
had seen harder and more trying times in the
Church than now and thought we should not
complain. Plenty to eat and wear, and com-
fortable homes are great blessings, and were
not enjoyed in some trying times that were past.
"If we embrace the principle of plural mar-
riage, we must not grumble at the trials it
brings, but be cheerful and obedient at all
times."
	Miss Edith Sampson made it a rule to re-
spond when called upon, consequently found
herself in this trying position. "We should

[Column 2]

seek God at all times, for He is a jealous God,
and we should put our trust in Him, no matter
what the trial."
	Mrs. J. C. Howe said she had come to get
her spiritual and bodily strength renewed;
thought nothing so pleasant as to meet with
the young ladies. Hoped God would give us
retentive memories and understanding, that we
may comprehend the Scriptures, both ancient
and modern.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Did you Think to Pray?" Prayer by Mrs. M.
E. Irvine.
	With a good attendance, the meeting con-
vened at 2 p.m. Singing. Prayer by Mrs.
Buxton. Singing.
	Prest. Mary A. Freeze was the first speaker;
said she felt the Lord is able to make the
weakest strong, and would give her something
to say. "Many think pleasure and rejoicing
the only objects of existence, but we came here
for a purpose, not by accident; we had a pre-
existence, when we rejoiced at the prospect of
coming on the earth, and now we are here we
must do our work well. We need to struggle
for faith in God—our minds are naturally
drawn to the earth, and we must draw our
minds to God." She thought we should prac-
tice what we teach, "so we should place our-
selves in a position to teach every good thing.
We should not fear the punishments inflicted
by men, for what are they compared to the
wrath of God?"
	Coun. M. Y. Dougall said, "Let us live our
religion to-day and every day of our lives, and
influence, if possible, others to live their re-
ligion. When we stand before the judgment
seat of God, there will be no comforting joy
like that of knowing we have kept the com-
mandments of God. Our religion should be
dearer to us than anything else in the world;
thought we should educate ourselves, for the
daughters of Zion bear the souls of men, and
if we want the sons educated, we should edu-
cate the daughters," etc.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp felt to endorse every
word that Mrs. Dougall had said, and felt that
every true woman must acknowledge the right
man as the leader, and that she should obey
him in all things in righteousness. Prayed
that God would bless each one of us with re-
tentive memories, that we may treasure up use-
ful knowledge.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor said that as we have
with us to-day Sister E. R. Snow Smith and
Prest. A. M. Cannon, she would not occupy
the time, but before resuming her seat she
wished emphatically to impress upon the minds
of the presidents that their proper position
is on the stand, and they must take their posi-
tions there without being reminded specially of
it at every meeting. She also gave instructions
in regard to married life.
	Mrs. E. R. Snow Smith said, "It has been a
long time since I met with my young sisters in
this capacity, and I am thankful to God for
this privilege. The instructions we have re-
ceived will do us no good unless we put them
in practice. The Lord has a great work for
the daughters of Zion—to raise up a healthy
generation. A mighty God is with us, if we
adhere to Him. You young ladies want to
cultivate health in your bodies; it is to be la-
mented that so many have inherited weaknesses
of body, but in a measure you can overcome
them, by living the laws of life and health."
Said the young could not expect healthy bodies
when they are out night after night exposed to
the cold. "These may seem small matters, but
a healthy spirit cannot prosper in an unhealthy
body. Early impressions form the character
of the child, and often the mother in little
things sets examples of dishonesty. Establish
firmly the principle of strict honesty, and
have a foundation as high as the heavens and
as broad as eternity. Our God condescends to

[Column 3]

notice small things; we should not desecrate
the Sabbath day; we should be exemplary Lat-
ter-day Saints; we should gain knowledge.
What is education? The training of the hu-
man mind; but if we could not educate in
everything without disloyalty to the Gospel,
I would rather have the love of God than all
the knowledge of seminaries." She urged the
young ladies to learn housekeeping, as good
health and happiness depends on it. She
closed her remarks by saying, "I ask God to
bless you and pour out His Spirit upon you; do
nothing to grieve it away. You can’t consider
too important the mission God has for you; if
we cleave unto God, seek to do His will in all
things, we shall be able to stand whatever the
Lord suffers to come."
	Prest. A. M. Cannon expressed himself as
pleased to attend a young ladies' conference.
Referred to the remarks of previous speakers
as instructive and interesting. He referred
to the relative positions of man and woman,
saying, "Each has an important work to do."
Spoke of a mother’s influence over a child, and
how exemplary her conduct should be. He
related instances of the power of early im-
pressions, and was listened to with great
interest.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, "Give us room, that we
may dwell." Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
