MRS. J. W. BARCLAY.

	With deep regret we read recently of the sudden
death, the result of an accident, of Mrs. J. W.
Barclay, a most honorable and interesting woman,
and a good and staunch friend of the Mormon
people. She visited Salt Lake City with her hus
band in 1885, and met many of the people here.
Mr. J. W. Barclay, her husband, is a member of
Parliament from Forfarshire, Scotland, and has
written intelligently and ably on the "Mormon"
question in popular journals, and has also pub-
lished a little work setting forth his views and
opinions touching the subjects considered so un-
popular in the great world outside who look upon
the matter with so much dislike and prejudice.
Mr. Findlay, who accompanied Mr. and Mrs. Bar-
clay here, and spent a short time in this city with
them (guests of John W. Young), said once or
twice to the writer that Mr. Barclay ought not to
receive all the praise and credit of writing the
very excellent articles in defense of this people,
for he knew that Mrs. Barclay had a large share
in the work, and was in part the author. She was
indeed a very large-hearted and noble-minded
woman, and won the esteem and admiration of
those who met her while here on a brief visit.
	She excelled in conversation, and to hear her
converse was a privilege; yet she was not one to
do all the talking, making herself the centre, but
drew others out, and listened with interest and
profound respect even to Mormon women. At
the time of Mrs. Barclay's death she was paying
a visit to a Russian lady at Mussiden, Dordagne,
France, not far from Bordeaux, in company with
her brother, Mr. Phillip Novelli, and her sister,
Mrs. Williams. While out riding on the 21st of

[Column 2]

August, she was thrown from her horse and re-
ceived severe injuries. She fell on her head, and
a blood vessel burst, causing partial paralysis.
She was at once conveyed to the Hospital at
Mussiden, and a London physician was sent for
who attended her till her decease, which took
place on the 3rd of September. She remained
unconscious from the time of the accident. Mr.
Barclay was in this country, and received the
shocking news of his wife's death while in Denver,
Colorado. He immediately started for New York,
and took passage on the steamship Brittanie,
which sailed on the 21st instant for Liverpool."
	"Mrs. Lilian Alice Barclay was the daughter of
the late Mr. A. H. Novelli, merchant of Hyde
Park, London, and was married to Mr. Barclay in
1882."
	Mrs. Barclay was a gentle, refined and accom-
plished lady. She was pleased with her visit to
America, and particularly with her stay in Utah.
She appreciated everything connected with the
settlement and improvements made in these val-
leys, and wondered at the untiring industry and
patient endurance of hardships, women must have
experienced in traveling as they did across the
weary desert plains, and undergoing all the priva-
tions incident to the establishment of a new colony
so far from civilization. She manifested a deep
interest in these matters in her conversation, and
her confidence in the sincerity of the people, and
their devotion to the religion they had embraced
was so real, as to convince all who formed her ac-
quaintance that she was one among a thousand of
the society women of the day. Such women are
like rare jewels in the midst of the circle in which
they move, and their influence a blessing to all
who come within their reach.
	Mrs. Barclay will be missed, and deeply
mourned by husband, relatives and friends, and
can never be forgotten; she was a woman who drew
all hearts towards her,and having once been known
would be distinctly remembered ever afterward.
We most sincerely sympathize with the bereaved
husband and relatives, for we realize what a com-
fort and blessing her companionship must have
been to those around her, and to her husband,
what a heavy loss he has sustained.


