ANCIENT.

	Unthinking and uninformed persons are
prone to believe that the condition they see
about them must have existed always, or that
there has never been any great deviation from
the present order of society.
	"Our gardener is immortal," said the rose to
the lily. "So long as I can remember him
there has been no change in him, and the violet,
who died yesterday, told me that he had al-
ways looked just as he does now."
	Thus runs a fable, and the reasoning of the
flowers is the usual reasoning of the crowd.
Because within their observation the present
conditions have existed, therefore they have
always prevailed.
	Thus many persons will maintain that be-
cause during certain centuries, and among
certain nations, women have held a subordinate
place, therefore they have always and every-
where been under similar disabilities. Some
years ago Dr. Howard Bushnell, of Hartford,
wrote an elaborate volume called, "The Reform
Against Nature," in which he endeavored to
prove that woman's natural and eternal posi-
tion was that of an inferior to man; to main-
tain this view either suppressing or per-
verting all the facts of history which would
controvert his position.
	A review of the story of human existence
on this earth may therefore be useful in ex-
ploding some of these erroneous ideas, and
showing that, although by reason of his greater
physical strength, and the disabilities which
maternity imposes upon woman, man has, in
all ages, over a large section of the world,


[Column 1]

﻿forced her to submit to unequal and unjust
laws, yet that there has never been a period in
which the natural equality of woman has not
been in some way acknowledged, and even her
superiority at times admitted.
	If we look for the earliest traces of the ex-
istence of humanity to scientific sources, we
are told that the bones of women and men
have been exhumed from cave sepulchres, where
they have reposed side by side since their
burial, thousands of years ago, when they were
the contemporaries of the cave-bear, the mam-
moth, and other quarternary animals now ex-
tinct; and that, in many cases, the skeletons in-
dicate that there was very little difference in
size between the sexes in those primitive
times.
	It is leaping across a vast geological period
to speak of the mound-builders of this country;
yet as it is possible only approximately to
guess at the age in which they lived and
flourished, and as they were, no doubt in a re-
mote age, the most civilized dwellers on this
continent, we may fairly speok of them as
among the ancient peoples of the world. The
remains that have been discovered in their
tombs and mounds also show that among this
race of small beings the women were about the
same size as the men, and that rank rather
than sex was regarded in the bestowing of funer-
al honors.
	If we turn to the Bible record and read its
dramatic account of the creation of mankind,
we shall find that in the beginning joint do-
minion was given to man and woman (Gen. 1.
26-28) that Eve was the last and crowning
effort of the creative force. Adam evi-
dently, had no idea of superiority over her, for
although the Divine command not to eat of
the tree of knowledge was given to him alone,
when Eve, tempted by the noble ambition tor
wisdom, took of the forbidden fruit and offered
it to him, he uttered no word of objection or
remonstrance, but humbly followed where she
led.
	The presence of Deborah alone gave
victory to the "army of the living God," and
after dispersing the enemies of her people, she
judged Israel for forty years, during which "the
land had peace." Miriam sang the song of
triumph side by side with Moses, and Huldah,
the prophetess, was venerated by kings. The
severities of the Jewish law by which women
were excluded from the priesthood, and even
from active participation in the services, and
condemned to a subordinate position, have no
warrant in the Bible story. The description
of a perfect woman given in Proverbs (xxxi
10-31), portrays her as not only excelling in
all the duties of the wife, the mother, and the
housekeeper, but also as buying and selling
land, dealing with merchants, and discharging
the public responsibilities of a citizen.
	Turning now to the pages of profane history,
in the hoary land where the human story had
its beginning in ancient Egypt, women and
men shared equally the pleasures and the la-
bors of life. In Egyptian mythology Isis and
Osiris, sister and brother, wife and husband,
rode together in the chariots of the Sun, the
woman always named before the man, as if in
honor the higher. The crown descended
often in the female line, and the achievements
of Hatasu, the great queen who brought to
perfection the system of irrigation, are re-
corded in monuments as magnificent as those
which commemorate the deeds of Rameses II.
At a later period, under the Ptolemies, even
where the husband was of the blood royal, the
wife was often the acknowledged sovereign; as
in the case of the famous Cleopatra, whose
brother and spouse had no power except of obe-
dience to her will.
	The sculptures which record the social cus-
toms of the Egyptians depict women and men
together at the council board, in the market

[Column 2]

place, and in festal scenes, showing that
women were active not only in social life, but
in business pursuits also.
	Going further eastward, we find the condi-
tion of women much inferior, and that in Ori-
ental lands, from the dawn of the historic pe-
riod, they were held in a condition but little
above slavery.

		Semiramis, queen
of Assyria, carried her nation to a pitch of
greatness it had never before attained, and the
tremendous achievements of her reign are not
over-stated in the proud inscription which she
herself composed for her own tomb:
	"Nature has given me the body of a woman,
and my actions have made me the equal of
the most valiant of men. I have governed
the Empire of Ninus, which extends over al-
most all Asia; before me, none of the Assyrians
had seen the sea; I have brought to their
knowledge four great seas, so far distant that
no one before this had reached their borders.
I have turned the courses of rivers to water
sterile lands, which I have rendered fertile. I
have constructed fortresses, and pierced roads
through impracticable rocks; I have driven
my war-chariots over paths which the wild
beasts themselves could not climb. And amid
so many toils I have yet found time for my plea-
sures and my friends."
	Even among those nations of the East where
women were most oppressed, the virtues and
the intellect, which have in no age been con-
fined to one sex, rendered some women illus-
trious. On the flowery plains of India, the
Taj mahal still records the graces of Nour-
mahal, whose story belongs indeed to a later
period. It may properly be mentioned here,
in considering the condition of oriental women,
while in that land where female infants are
destroyed as worthless, where girls are sold to
the most hideous slavery, and ladies of the
highest rank are crippled for life to insure their
helplessness—even in China—women have oc-
casionally been distinguished by their great
learning, and to the Empress Sisling-chi, we
are indebted for the invention of silken fabrics,
with all the great industries that have sprung
from her discovery.
	Returning westward, we find that the Greeks
denied all education to their legitimate wives,
and, as a result, women who were not wanton
were willing to join the hetiroe, that they might
gratify a thirst for knowledge, and Aspasia
was the intellectual equal of Pericles and of
Socrates. Plato, the greatest writer of the
ancient world, with a vision that looked be-
yond the narrow field of present limitations
and prejudices, pictured in his "Divine Re-
public" a society in which the absolute equality
of the sexes should be acknowledged, and in
which women, the sharers with their brothers
in physical and mental development, should
be their companions in all advantages, and
their counselors and associates in public mat-
ters.
	Among the Romans women were at first
held in an entirely subordinate position, not al-
lowed to hold property, to have any control
over their children, and restricted in dress and
adornments.
	But as the years went on, there was a con-
stant struggle on the part of the opposite sex
to attain greater liberty. The laws were
gradually modified until from a condition of
slavery to their husbands which followed "the
rape of the Sabines," the women of the Em-
pire had achieved so much independence that
the Historian Maine says:
	"The jurisconsults had evidently at this time
assumed the equality of the sexes as a principle of
the code of equity. The situation of a Roman
woman, whether married or single, became one
bf great personal and property independ-
ence."
	In the history of that mighty empire of the

[Column 3]

ancient world, women played an important
part. Cornelia and Volumni and Hortensia
had wide influence on the destinies of their
day, and Augusta was for a while absolute em-
press in all but the name.
	The ruder nations of Western Europe hon-
ored women from the earliest times, and Tacitus
relates how the German Warriors declared
that "in all great questions we consult our
women." In the coarser virtues of a savage
age women also excelled; on more than one oc-
casion the Roman historians record the bravery
of barbarian heroines, and after the Cimbrian
men were conquered, their wives fought with
so furious a valor that it won a grim tribute of
admiration even from their enemies.
	A review of the condition of women in the
ancient world ought not to close without some
mention of the Amazons, those warrior maidens
who, whether they formed a nation by them-
selves, as was claimed by some writers, or were
only the braver spirits among a people that
acknowledged the supremacy of their sex, cer-
tainly had a real existence. Monuments to
their prowess existed until a recent period,
and medals which are yet preserved in muse-
ums bear testimony to their deeds. The first
Amazon of whom there is any mention was
Hippolyta, who appeared in the mythologic
age and ventured to do battle with the mighty
Hercules himself. During the siege of Troy,
Pentheselea, queen of the Amazons, came with
her warriors to aid the Trojans.
	At a later period, and within the historic
times, Thalestris, "queen of the country of the
Amazons lying beyond the Thermodoon," had
an interview with Alexander the Great, which
is minutely described by Quintus Curtius. It
is not possible, indeed, to dismiss the stories of
the Amazons as wholly fable, since Diodorus,
Justinian, Plutarch, and Grotius, as well as
Quintus Curtius, give elaborate accounts of
the customs and appearance of these warrior
women; and if their testimony on this subject
is rejected, a large part of accepted history
must go with it.
