[Vol17 | July 1930 | Sequence: 13a | Category: Article | Title: Carolina Louisa Evans Holt]

Caroline L. Holt
CAROLINE LOUISA EVANS HOLT was born Nov. 13th, 1859, at Spanish Fork, Utah, the daughter of Thomas David and Priscilla Merriman Evans and the third in a family of twelve children. The father heard the Gospel in Wales and joined the Church when sixteen years of age. A year later, or in 1852, he was called to labor as a missionary in Pembrocshire, this mission lasted for six years. While traveling as a servant of God, he met and married the mother of Sister Caroline, April 3rd, 1856, and a few days later they left the land of their birth and set sail for America, arriving in Boston in May. They immediately started westward; arriving in Iowa, they continued their journey of a thousand miles across the trackless plains with the hand cart company. Brother Evans had the misfortune to be run over when a child and lose one leg. Using a wooden peg in place of his leg made it very hard for him to walk. At times he suffered so much he was obliged to ride and his young bride would pull the load. After many hardships they arrived in Salt Lake Oct. 3rd, 1856. They moved to Spanish Fork in a short time, where their first child was born, a baby girl who was called Emma.
THE father was called to fill another mission in far off Wales, and left Spanish Fork May 2, 1875, in company with Brother Thomas C. Martell. He filled an honorable mission of two and one half years, adding many rich experiences to his life. He died Aug. 2nd, 1906, at the age of 73. Sister Caroline's mother was an active worker in the Relief Society and was chosen as Secretary in 1857 and labored in that capacity for many years. When the call first came from President Brigham Young for the Sisters to glean wheat, Sister Evans went into the fields with her little ones, taking Caroline along to tend them, thus helping to save the precious grain to be used many years later when we were engaged in the World War, the First Ward of Spanish Fork selling Uncle Sam over $1,300.00 worth.
SISTER CAROLINE lived with her grandmother for six years but returned home to help her mother while the father was in Wales. Sister Evans died Nov. 5th, 1914. The first school Sister Caroline attended was taught by Bishop Butler's wife in a little adobe house on Main Street. The next teacher was Nancy Woodward who taught in her own home. Silas Hillman, James G. Higgenson, George H. Brimhall and Joseph A. Reese, were also her teachers. She worked as a teacher in Sunday School, teaching a class of young boys in the old meeting house. When the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association was organized Sister Caroline was chosen as Librarian holding that office until the Wards were divided and then was called to work in the same position in the new ward in which she lived. Sister Holt was a gifted alto singer and has sung in the choir ever since she was big enough, being a member of the old choir and singing under the direction of William Jones, William James and Owen Rowe. When the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated she sang with a choir of three hundred voices at two sessions under the leadership of Prof. Giles. She is still a member of the ward choir where she resides.
At the age of 23 she was married to William Nathaniel Holt, the son of a Mormon Battalion member, being united to him for time and eternity in the old Endowment House by Daniel H. Wells, Nov. 2nd, 1882. To this union were born two children, Dolly Patience, Aug. 1st, 1883, and William David Holt, born Sept. 22nd, 1885. In the year 1894, Sister Holt had the great misfortune to lose her husband and although her health was poor she continued to press on rearing her children in faith in the Gospel and continuing her work in the Church. Her daughter Dolly married William Rigtrup, Dec. 6th, 1903, and became the mother of five children, Caroline, Annie Amelia, Dolly Percilla, Carl William and Alge. Shortly after the birth of Alge the mother died, passing away Jan. 20th, 1915. Though this was a great trial for Sister Holt, her great faith in God gave her strength to stand the ordeal and she was able to say, "The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the name of the Lord." She has been a mother to her daughter's children and they always find a home and loving care with Grandma. Her son William graduated from the B. Y. U. and also filled a two and one-half year mission in the Central States. He married Zella Monk June 20th, 1917, and is the father of four children, Phyllis, Caroline, Zella, who died at the age of five months, Josephine and Donna Emma. William resides in Tooele, being Musical Director in the high school.
SISTER HOLT'S greatest public work has been in the Relief Society; when a girl of 18 years she was set apart as teacher, having Sister Rosetta Robertson as a companion. She labored in that capacity until Spanish Fork was divided into four wards. March 3rd, 1892, the Relief Society Sisters were called together in a meeting in the old Central meetinghouse. Sister Eliza Jex was released as President of Spanish Fork Relief Society and four organizations were perfected with Caroline L. Holt president of the First Ward, Thorgerda B. Snell 1st Counselor, Margaret Davis 2nd Counselor, Eliza Hales Secretary, and Ellen Tilley Treasurer.
MANY changes have taken place among those with whom Sister Caroline has labored, many have gone to the great beyond, but our dear sister is still with us. She filled the position of president of the Relief Society for 37 years, being released when the First Ward was divided April 21, 1929.
SHE was always on hand whenever and wherever her services were needed, no night was ever too dark or cold or stormy for her to answer the call and her work could always wait until her duty was done. She has been as a ministering angel in many homes in the time of sickness and death and with the great faith that is her constant companion she has helped us all in times of sorrow. No record has been kept of the many she has helped lay away in death, a Lamanite Sister being one of the number. None can know of the labor she has accomplished, but when that other book is opened a great work will be recorded there. We who have labored with her and know her worth love her best for her untiring labor and great faith.
Sister Holt was also a member of the old folks committee from the time they first commenced entertaining the old people until the division of the ward, when a new committee was chosen and she was among the honored guests.
At the present time she is active in Genealogical work and it is her greatest desire that as long as she is permitted to live that she may be found among those who are doing the work of the Lord.
Raffling, Games of Chance, Etc.
REPORTS have been received from time to time that, in some instances, at ward fairs and other entertainments, raffling and other chance games have been conducted. The argument used in favor of these contests is that such games are common in the business world and that the purpose for which they are employed is a worthy one. In other words, it is argued that the end justifies the means. In order, however, that the position of the Church may be clear, we are quoting herewith from instructions given by President Joseph F. Smith and by President Heber J. Grant which express the attitude of the Church authorities.
President Smith said, "Raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling. For that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged among the young people of the Church.
"PRESIDENT YOUNG declared raffling to be a modified form of gambling and said that 'as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain,' and advised the sisters, through the Woman's Exponent, not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow endorsed and approved of these statements and said: 'I have often expressed my unqualified disapproval of raffling.'"
President Grant says, "I have always understood that our people were advised to raise their money for charitable and other purposes without indulging in raffling, where chances are sold. There is no objection to creating competition in various ways in ward entertainments in order to raise money, but the selling of chances on any article has been discouraged."
THE spirit of gambling or taking chances for money is so rampant in the world at present that the moderating influence and example of the Church should be exercised in behalf of our young people toward resisting such temptations. We urge that the spirit of these instructions be followed in all ward entertainments, and that proper advice in the same direction be given all members of the Church.
The Presiding Bishopric.