[Vol17 | July 1930 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Reminiscences of a Pioneer Alice Morrill]

Reminiscences of a Pioneer From the Life of Juliette Stowell Perry, a Veteran of the Relief Society By Alice Morrill On November 29 last, Sister Juliette Stowell Perry was ninety-four years old. A member today of the Relief Society of Maeser Ward in Ashley Valley, she was counselor to the president of the first Relief Society in Naples Ward of this Valley. On account of a fractured hip, caused by falling upon the doorstep of her home nearly three years ago, Sister Perry is now bedfast. SINCE she has had to give up homemaking, she has lived with her daughter, Sister Etta Caldwell, of Maeser. This dear old lady never complains, and is very grateful for the kindly ministrations of her daughter's family. Faith and patience halo her presence, and she has an encouraging smile and word of cheer for all who visit her. Ciety, held their regular meeting with Sister Perry. She gave a reminiscent talk and recited for the visitors a beautiful poem, which she has retained in memory.* Asked where she ob. Tained copies of poems during her life of exodus and travel, Sister Perry answered: "They came to me in various ways. I remember clipping one from an old Illinois newspaper that I found wrapped around some belongings of. Ours when we were camped at Council Bluffs. I was always on the lookout for scraps of good literature to memorize." Grandma Perry remembers many of these. When requested, she recites them for her children, grandchildren, or friends. When her visitors inquired about reminiscences, she related the following: On one occasion the Relief Society, Society, held their regular meeting with Sister Perry. She gave a reminiscent talk and re- cited for the visitors a beautiful poem, which she has retained in memory.* Asked where she ob tained copies of poems during her life of exodus and travel, Sister Perry answered: "They came to me in various ways. I remember clipping one from an old Illinois newspaper that I found wrapped around some belongings of ours when we were camped at Council Bluffs. I was always on the look- out for scraps of good literature to memorize." Grandma Perry remembers many of these. When requested, she recites them for her children, grandchildren, or friends. When her visitors inquired about reminiscences, she related the following WHEN Mother and Father joined the Church, they were living upon a farm in Westfield, Chautauqua County, New York. Mother was zealous for her religion and had a strong desire to gather with the Saints. Mother and nine children arrived at Nauvoo just after the Prophet was killed, and just *See poem at end of article. When the 'wolf hunt' was on. The mob," Sister Perry explained, "had determined upon 'Mormon' extirpation and had organized gangs to go through the country adjacent to Nauvoo and annihilate the 'Mormons' who were living on farms and were unprotected. SOON all the brethren and sisters came fleeing into Nauvoo. There were nights and nights when Mother's floor was covered with the beds of the refugees." Of Nauvoo in the days of its glory, Sister Perry said: "When we were in Nauvoo during that first year, it was like a garden. Everything imaginable had been brought and planted. But after that there was trouble enough, and sorrow, in Nauvoo the Beautiful. We stayed in the city until two days before the mob came in and took possession. Many of the Saints were at Mother's house while men went out trying to drive back the raging mob; but it could not be halted. "I saw a man come running?I can remember his words: 'Our boys are beaten. Make good your retreat!' Whenever word came to us of what was happening round about, the Temple bell would ring. Mother tied up our things in pack- 386 ages and kept them ready, so that when the time came that we had to go, we could carry them in our hands. I SHALL never forget that night. For a time it was still as still. Mother stood and listened. We could see the mob passing along the road. Our friends took refuge in a corn field. One man, who had been our neighbor, helped Mother as we moved down to the river bank. We didn't know what would happen next. Some were being ferried across to the other side of the river, but after awhile it got so cold that we were taken across on the ice.
"BROTHER WILLIAM GOULD went out to where his father owned a farm in Knox County, Illinois, and got some teams. Then we were taken there and located upon a piece of land, where we lived for one year, raising one good crop. After that, with the help of friends, we worked our way, little by little, until we got to Council Bluffs, where we stayed four years. When Bishop Edward Hunter came back from 'the Valley' to gather up the poor, scattered Saints, we were still living there, in 'George A's Hollow.'
"We left our homes on the 15th of June and arrived in 'the Valley' on the 2nd of October. Upon arriving at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, I recall my feelings when I first beheld in 'the Valley' the settlement that is now Salt Lake City. The buildings, even then, were very respectable.
"Oh! The people in those days were kind. I recall an incident?one of many?that illustrates their kindness. We had just moved into an unfinished frame house. The roof had not been completed and the first snow-storm sifted through. One morning one of our neighbors, who was working on the Temple, passed by on his way to work. Noticing that no smoke was rising from the chimney, he came to the door and found us still in bed with a coverlet of snow. 'Sister Stowell, this will never do,' he said, 'Go down to my place. Don't stop for getting breakfast. When I come home tonight, I'll see what can be done.' I'll always remember the kindness of Brother Norton Jacobs. We stayed with his family and ate at his table the rest of the winter, Mother helping all she could with the work.
"AFTERWARD, we settled in Provo, and I married William Howard Perry, a young man whom I met in Salt Lake. We moved to Lynn later, and to Cache Valley still later. In 1880 we settled in Ashley Valley. We were there in the early settlement of the Valley, when no Relief Society was even organized. We had a family of ten children?seven girls and three boys."
Sister Perry's memory is good, and she converses intelligently on many subjects. She reads newspapers, all the Church books, and the Church magazines. Since her hip was broken, she has cut and pieced nine sets of quilt blocks, knit lace for six pairs of pillow slips, made two pairs of pillow slips, and sewed fifty pounds of carpet rags. She is happy to think she still can work.
The following is one of her poems:
SILENT AND LONE
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, are my little ones gone?
Once they were playing about at my knee.
In their frolicsome mirth, their boisterous glee,
They would upset the table, misplace the chairs,
Scattering their playthings, all unawares,
Till sometimes I sighed for the good time to come
When they all would be big and would go out from home.
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, have my little ones gone?
No little faces to wash on this night;
No little troubles for Mama to right;
No tender blue eyes to be sung off to sleep,
No tiny playthings to put up to keep;
No little trundle bed brim full of rollick,
Calling for Mama to settle the frolic.
No little clothes to be hung on the rack,
No tales to tell, and no nuts to crack;
No soft little lips to press me with kisses?
Oh, such a sad, lonely evening as this is!
Silent the house with no little ones near
To startle a smile or chase back a tear;
No little voices to shout with delight,
"Good night, dear Mama, good night, good night!"
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, have my little ones gone?
They are out where the great rolling trade stream is flowing;
Out where new firesides with love light are glowing;
Out where the graves with their lifehope is sleeping,
Not to be comforted, weeping, still weeping;
Out where the hill-tops of science are blending,
Up mid the cloud rifts, up, up, still ascending!
Seeking the sunshine that rests on the mountain,
Drinking, yet thirsting, for aye at the fountain;
Out in life's thoroughfare, all of them moiling,
Out in the wide world, striving and toiling,
Little ones, loving ones, playful ones, all
That went when I bade, and came at my call,
Have you deserted me? Will you not come
Back to your mother's arms?back to your home?
Useless my cry is. Why do I complain?
Can I call back my little ones? Never again!
Can the great oak to the acorn return??
The broad rolling stream flow back to the bourne?
The mother call childhood again to her knee,
That in manhood went forth, the strong and the free?
Ah, no! Mother, wish not for them back;
Your work nobly done, their tramp on life's track
Will come like an organ's note lofty and clear,
To lift up your soul and your spirit to cheer.
And though your tears fall when you're silent and lone,
You shall know it is best they have scattered and gone."
Silent and lone, silent and lone;?
"Thy will, O Father, not my will be done!"
Mrs. Hilda M. Richards, Malad Stake literary leader, spoke on "What Have the Literary Lessons Done for Your Stake?" at the Literary Department of the April Relief Society conference. It is regretted that the June number of the Magazine, on page 300, reported the address as being given by President Eleanor J. Richards.
