My neighbor who was ill in the hospital asked for something new and different to read. I took her The Relief Society Magazine — small and easy to handle and with a very colorful cover. She was delighted, and read it immediately. Then the night 'nurse: saw it lying on the bed and asked what kind of magazine-it was, and if she might read it. My neighbor told her she was welcome to read the Magazine, but to be sure to return it. The next night the nurse returned the Magazine. She had especially enjoyed the stories and recipes. When my neighbor was being brought home from the hospital the woman who was taking her home asked to read the Magazine. She liked: the stories and poems. All this created an interest in the Church,. And the woman who took my neighbor home from the hospital is to be baptized at our next baptism day. Let's every one of us be a missionary. Geneva Cluff Phoenix, Arizona Thank you for the beautiful Magazine.. We sell more Relief Society Magazines each year, and we know they will help each subscriber to gain a testimony of the gospel, and also help to make a happier home by following the instructions pertaining to becoming a better wife, mother, and homemaker. Laura R. Shimp President Huntington Park Stake Relief: Society, California I really appreciate and love the Magazine, and my _ twelve-year-old daughter reads it before I get a chance, part of the time. Thank you for the Magazine and the lovely lessons. Beverly Culwell North Little Rock Arkansas 162 ee ee eee eT eee ELISE TSP LTR ETT BOVE Se I enjoy. My Relief Society Magazine very' much, and I have saved all the Magazines since I joined the Church. Today, I have parted with some of the Magazines, and I know that some of them will never return, but I am sure the older ladies in the nursing home where I sent them will enjoy them, because they are small enough to handle in bed. The stories - and lessons are not so long that they would lose interest in reading them. Mrs. Audrey Warren Charles City, Iowa — The visiting teacher message for the month of October ("Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to. Forgive One Another," by Christine H. Robinson) is one of the best lessons I have - ever taught. It is put. Together so. Beautifully. Mrs. Dee. Phillips Ferndale, Michigan As a young mother, with four children, and a husband in the bishopric, I find the Magazine a great source of inspiration and encouragement. Whenever I feel blue or discouraged, I can always find just the right article to touch my heart and inspire me to do better. Sharon T. Koster Provo, Utah. I I am a girl of fifteen and I received the lovely Relief Society Magazine as a Christmas gift two years ago from my. Grandmother. I love the beautiful covers and enjoy the stories very much, as well as the poetry in each issue. May I say it is not only the older women, but also the girls of my age who read and love the Magazine. From a future Relief Society member. Marilyn Child Springville, Utah 

 MARCH 1964 VOLUME 51 NUMBER 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 164 Train Up a Child Marion G. Romney 170 "Charity Never Faileth" Edith P. Backman 184 The American Red Cross and Its Blood Donor Program Perkins M cGuire 916 What Does Your Speech Reveal? Myrtle Henderson 935 My Father's Violin Afton Brown 173 Someone to Cheer for Johnny — Third Prize Story Myrtle M. Dean 188 More Value Than Many Sparrows Margaret Woods 213 Second Chance Blanche M. Hollingsworth 220 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 2 Hazel M. Thomson General Feature 162 From Near and Far 181 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 182 Editorial: We Are the Beneficiaries Louise W. Madsen 2298 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 240 Birthday Congratulations The Homeinside and Out 185 Don't You Love Your Sisters! Margaret Russell 191 The World's Favorite Roses Dorothy J. Roberts 198 Painting With Glass Florian H. Thayn 204 Parleys Sixth Ward Country Fair Bazaar VaLora M. Anderson 209 Planning a Successful Bazaar Louise W. Madsen 212 Recipes for Springtime Charlotte Russe Ingrid W. Olsen Desserts That Please the Family Florence K. Gates 219 Cast Your Bread Upon the Waters Olive Sharp 227 Charlotte H. Singley — Landscape Artist 161 The Heart Looks Up — Frontispiece Linnie F. Robinson On Spring and Love, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 172; Spring, by Rowena Jensen Bills, 180; Who Plants a Garden, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 190; Curled in Seed, by Alice Morrey Bailey, 197; Fawn at the Pool, by Thelma J. Lund, 218; Our Chapel, by Margaret B. Shomaker, 219; Feather Grief, by Ida Elaine James, 236; Pathway, by Catherine B. Bowles, 237; Exile, by Gilean Douglas, 239; Thanks for These, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 240. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

163 Train upa Child My beloved sisters: To me it is a signal honor to have been named one of your advisers. I intend to do my best to render such service as the calling entails. I have thought to address you today as mothers on a text taken from the wise man's proverb: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). The selection of this text was prompted by my conviction that training our children is our best antidote to the godless materialism, irreverent secularism, declining morality, adult and juvenile delinquency, increasing crime, and general disregard for the laws of God and the dignity of man which so plague our present society. It is not my purpose to harrow up your souls by dwelling upon this sordid aspect of our times. My only purpose in calling it to your attention at all is my belief that unless these pernicious practices are checked, they presage the end of our way of life and my further conviction that you, as members of the Relief Society, have the potential to inspire the parents of the Church, particularly mothers, more effectively to train their children to avoid them. The Church can and will assist in that training. But it can only assist. It is not and cannot be a 164 Marion G. Romney of The Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at The Relief Society Annual General Conference October 3, 1963] substitute for parents in this, their most urgent parental responsibility. The importance of this responsibility was emphasized by the Lord in the very early days of the Restored Church, "... Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, [he said]... That teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25). Kighteen months later he explained that all children are innocent before him in their infant state, but thereafter "... That wicked one cometh and [by persuading them to disobedience] taketh away light and truth. "But [he continues] I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and_ truth" (D&C 93:39-40). He then spoke directly to some of the leading brethren, first to Frederick G. Williams. "You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction." I wonder if some of our afflictions, some of our juvenile delinquency, for example, could be due to the fact that we have not taught our children light and truth. THE Lord did not leave Brother Williams in any doubt as to his responsibility in the matter, for, he continued, ''And now a commandment:'I give unto you — if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house " (D&C 93:41-43). He then said that Sidney Rigdon had ''not kept the commandments concerning his children" (verse 44) and commanded him to do so. He reproved Bishop Whitney for the misconduct of his children, saying of him he. Hath need to set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home (D&C 93:50). Even the Prophet Joseph himself was reprimanded for failing properly to train his children. PARENTS today are under the same obligation as were these early brethren. The consequences of failing to train our children are just as serious now as they were then. Although in the revelation the Lord spoke _ to fathers, the obligation rests just as heavily upon mothers. In fact, some of the brethren have said that mothers, having a greater influence upon their children, bear the major responsibility. President Brigham Young, for example, said: The duty of the mother is to watch over her children and give them their early education, for impressions received in infancy are lasting.... If mothers would take proper pains, TRAIN UP A CHILD they can instill into the hearts of their children what they please. You will, no doubt, recollect reading, in the Book of Mormon, of two thousand young men, who were brought up to believe that, if they put their whole trust in God, and served him, no power could overcome them. You also recollect of them going out to fight, and so bold were they, and so mighty their faith, that it was impossible for their enemies to slay them. This power and faith they obtained through the teachings of their mothers.. These duties and responsibilities devolve upon mothers far more than upon fathers (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 201, 1951 edition). Bearing this great responsibility, we must not be so busy with the urgent things pressed upon us in feeding, clothing, housing, and otherwise looking after the temporal needs of our children that we neglect the important things, the things calculated to fortify them against the evils of the world and prepare them for eternal life. We must not, as someone has said, have our minds and efforts so intent upon climbing the mountain that in our exhaustion we fail to see the view from the top. PerruHaprs a look at some of the conduct which must be corrected will suggest things we must teach. Consider, for instance, vandalism, which is one of the things in which juvenile delinquents specialize — pounding down drinking fountain heads, chopping new hardwood floors in unfinished houses, breaking windows, slashing furniture, stripping cars of hub caps and dashboard gadgets, for example. 165 MARCH 1964 Among the crimes they most frequently commit are (1) those of passion, principally aggravated assault, sex perversion, immorality, and "forcible rape," and (2) those which violate the command, "Thou shalt not steal,' such as auto theft, burglary, grand larceny, and robbery. It ought to be sobering to Latter-day Saints to contemplate and realize how completely every one of these misdeeds would be eliminated by practicing the things which the Lord has specifically directed us to teach our children. Obedience, for example. "Your family must needs give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place," said the Lord to the Prophet Joseph (D&C 93:48). And what were the Prophet's sayings concerning lawlessness such as is rampant among us? One of the things he said was: "We believe in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law" (Twelfth Article of Faith). Proper teaching of and training in this one fundamental principle of obedience to the laws of the land would effectively eliminate vandalism and crime. ANOTHER thing the Lord has directed us to train our children to do, which, neglected as it is, contributes to our present vexations, is to work. 'An idle brain," so the saying goes, "is the devil's workshop." This is no doubt true because the scriptures associate idleness 166 with things most despicable. Describing the remnant of his people, as in vision he saw them, "after they had dwindled in unbelief,' Nephi said, "They became a dark, and loathsome, and a filthy people, full of idleness and all manner of abominations" (1 Nephi 12:23). The Lord, condemning idleness in this dispensation, associates it with juvenile delinquency and wickedness, _ specifically with greediness. ""The idler," he says, "shall be had in remembrance before the Lord," adding, "I am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and _ their children also are growing up in wickedness; they seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness" (D&C 68:30-31). In addition to obedience and work, I want to mention another one of the many things the Lord has specifically commanded us to teach our children — namely, to pray. Speaking of the inhabitants of Zion, he said, '"They shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). He adds: ""And a commandment I give unto them — that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my _ people" (D&C 68:33). "Pray always," said the Lord to the Prophet, "that you may come off conqueror; yea, that you may conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work" (D&C 10:5). Particularly is daily secret and family prayer imperative in this day when the effect of the irreligious trend of the law of the land is to eliminate God and his righteousness from the daily lives and afiairs of men. No wise Latter-day Saint mother with an understanding of the power of prayer and the irreligious trend of our society will fail to train her children to pray. No person has a stronger weapon against the power of evil than he who with unbroken regularity goes night and morning on bended knee before his Heavenly Father in sincere and humble secret prayer. I challenge anyone to find a delinquent among those who do so. And mothers, don't underestimate the power of your own prayers in behalf of your children. Remember, it was the prayers of Alma, Senior, in behalf of his wayward son and his companions which sent an angel to bring them to repentance. There are, of course, many other things the Lord expects us to teach our children which, for want of time, cannot be considered here. They are, however, all to be found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. How best to teach your children you must yourselves learn through study, experience, and TRAIN UP A CHILD the guidance of the Holy Spirit which "shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith' (D&C 42:14). Whatever your method, however, this you shall remember: your teaching, to be successful and effective, must convince your children that living the gospel is the way to happiness. If they feel that the discipline to which they are subjected is arbitrary; that without reason it restricts their normal activities and keeps them from enjoying life, they will conform only so long as you have them under your immediate physical control. Thereafter they will rebel and defy you. In some cases they will be worse off for your efforts. The following counsel which the Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a sure guide: No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile— Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death (D&C 121:41-44). By the exercise of patience, long-suffering, and love, the good will and confidence of our children must be won. Time and understanding must be devoted to 167 MARCH 1964 teaching and training them so that they voluntarily comply with the revealed truths of the gospel. Little by little they must, while still responsive to your guidance, come to realize and appreciate that ''men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). That, as the Prophet Joseph said, "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it." Your children must, as a result of your guidance, through their own experience come to believe and know that, as the Prophet further said, '"'this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God" (DHC. V, pp. 134-135). Teach them that, as Alma told his son Corianton, "... Wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10), and what Samuel the Lamanite said to the wayward Nephites, as he foretold their ultimate end if they refused to repent: ye have procrastinated the day of your salvation until it is everlastingly too late, and your destruction is made sure; yea, for ye have sought all of the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head (Helaman 13:38). SomMEHOW we must get our children as they grow up to understand these great truths. We can help them to understand it by approving proper conduct and 168 by letting them know that improper conduct brings sorrow.: They can know when they are: three years old if they are taught properly. Both our homes and our scciety will be put in order when and only when, by precept and example, parents teach and inspire in their children a willing resolution to live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For when one gets a witness of their divinity and glimpses the joy of their promise, he will pray fervently, work diligently, and strictly obey the commandments of God, which, of course, include the laws of the land. Now, as I conclude, I would like you to feel the spirit of The Book of Mormon on this matter of training your children. Speaking to his people who had been moved to repentance, chastened and strengthened in their faith by his great farewell address, King Benjamin thus counseled and instructed them concerning the training of their children: And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God and have received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should... Always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God... And humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith.... And behold, I say unto you that if ye do this ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to every man that which is his due. And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil... But ye all teach them to walk in theways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to. Serve one another: (Mosiah 4:11-15)..- I remember reading this passage with one of my sons when he was still in Primary. We were reading The Book of Mormon totogether, a verse at a time, he a verse and I a verse. As we read this passage, he was so moved by the statement, '"'ye will not suffer your children that they... Transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another and serve the devil..." that, as he thought of some of his own pranks, tears came to his eyes. From that time, until he grew to be a man, if ever he was of a mind to quarrel, all we had to do was to quote this statement, and his eyes would fill with tears. I assure you, my beloved sisters, that if you can get into the hearts and feelings of your children the attitude and spirit of this great sermon, training them will be easy. Imbue them with the spirit of the gospel and our children will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably and to render to everyone that which is his due. Teach them, as Benjamin said, "... To TRAIN UP A CHILD walk in the ways of truth and soberness teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:15). You know, sisters, if mothers and fathers would, under the direction of the Holy Spirit, strictly follow the commandments of the Lord and the counsels of his prophets to train up their children in the way they should go, the inhabitants of the earth would soon reach that glorious state enjoyed by the Nephites when "there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another," when ". Because of the love of God which did dwell in [their] hearts. There were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of ce ee.' (4 Nephi 2, 15-16). Blessed were they that of — the prophet-historian said " surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God" (4 Nephi 16). Although such a blessed state seems beyond our present hope, let us not forget that the Lord has given us the assurance that the survivors of our present generation will enjoy a like society. This assurance should, and I believe it does, give us a determination to train up our children in the way they should go that they, with us, may be participants in the fulfillment of that glorious promise. That it may be so, I humbly pray. 169 Edith P. Backman Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] "Tis large seaof faces is a most beautiful, inspiring sight, but to stand before you and address you, I can assure you, is a very humbling responsibility. But it fills my heart with gratitude for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and for the strong, abiding testimony which is mine for the truthfulness of the Church and of its divinity. I am grateful beyond measure that I am a member of the Relief Society, the greatest women's organization in the whole world, and I am grateful for the opportunity to be able to serve with all of you sincere, devoted sisters. My testimony has become doubly strong because of that association with you, serving in an organization which has the _ highest ideals and standards by which to live. We all know that even in a humble, little cottage, in a palace, in a ward Relief Society, or a large stake, or even in a small branch of a mission, charity never 170 faileth. And what an appropriate motto for our Relief Society association to have. Moroni has given us a beautiful definition of charity. He said: ".. Charity suffereth long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked" (Moroni 7:45). And then he went on to say "... Charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him. If ye have not charity, ye are nothing, for charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity (Lbid., verses 46-47). Certainly, our dear Relief Society sisters cleave unto charity. They prove their true love for Christ by following his admonition, when he said, ''Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." This morning Sister Spafford read the names of several of our sisters who are visiting with us from faraway countries. We welcome them here, and we are grateful to have their spirit to buoy us up and to encourage us in our work here, because we know of some of the difficulties they are working under in the faraway missions, and although our languages may be different, our hearts are the same. Our spirits respond to the same love and charity, the same _ understanding. Our ideals and our aspirations are the same. Our desires to be good wives and mothers and to be of service are the same. THE Relief Society, established by the Holy Priesthood of God, blesses its sisters everywhere — the sisters on the Indian reservation, sisters who are students or wives of students or wives of servicemen who are far away from home, our sisters at home, and our sisters in every country in the world where the Church is permitted to function. It is a blessing to hear their testimonies and to hear the reports from these many wonderful branches of our Relief Society, and I hope that the prayer will be answered in behalf of those dear sisters who were prayed for this morning in the closing prayer, those who are far away from us, who are working under difficulty, who have that same love for the gospel that we have, may they be successful in their efforts and be able to accomplish the things that they would like to do. I was thrilled with the report of the growth of the Church and the wonderful accomplishments of those dear, devoted, faithful sisters in faraway South Africa. Naturally, I have a tender spot in my heart for the South African Mission because that was where my little family was permitted to go and serve some years ago. I was thrilled, and my heart was filled to overflowing when we received the little mission pamphlet, and on the cover of this was a picture of 100 Singing Mothers dressed in their white blouses. They had met in the beautiful city of Pretoria, which is the capital of South Africa, "CHARITY NEVER FAILETH"' and they furnished the music there for the dedicatory service of a new chapel. They had been given a promise. Our Heavenly Father said, "... My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." Yes, these Singing Mothers, this beautiful Singing Mothers chorus that we have with us today, and the Singing Mothers throughout the Church have received many blessings upon their heads because of the songs of righteousness which they have sung to our Heavenly Father. There was a sister who was the wife of a serviceman who was away with her little family and her husband for the first time. She was invited to join the small Relief Society that was organized on the military base for wives of servicemen. She said that the sweet spirit of sisterhood that existed there, and the concern that those sisters had for each other, and the sweet association, were a great source of comfort and joy to her. She was taken seriously ill and was unable to take care of her little family while her husband was on duty. The Relief Society sisters came to her aid. They prepared meals and kept her home in order until she was able to return and was strong enough to take over for herself. It was here that this sister realized the true meaning of sisterhood and of service. She bore a_ beautiful testimony of 71 MARCH 1964 thanksgiving to her Heavenly Father for her membership in the Relief Society. She said that she was grateful to belong to an organization that offers opportunities for every member to be of service. And she appreciated the compact course of study and the great amount of help she received in rearing her family. But, above all, she was grateful for the spirituality which it brought into her home. Yes, the Relief Society does bless the sisters everywhere, but with these blessings comes a great responsibility. What about all of our neighbors, all of our inactive sisters, all of those who have not yet caught the spirit of Relief Society work? What are we doing about them? I pray that each of us will go away from this conference with a renewed determination to serve the Lord with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. With a prayer in our hearts, that with tolerance, and with humility and love and charity, that we will go out and reach those sisters, that we may touch their hearts, that they will have a strong desire to become members with us in this wonderful organization, that they, too, may share in the glorious blessings which are ours by being affiliated with the Relief Society organization. As we do this, always with a prayer in our hearts, let us keep our motto in mind, that "charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity." I am sure the Lord will bless us that our numbers will increase, and that we will receive much joy and happiness because we are able to share the blessings of Relief Society with all of our sisters. I ask for all of this humbly, in Jesus' name. Amen. On Spring and Love Mabel Jones Gabbott It was the budding season of the year; The brown grass turned and drank of sun and rain, Each smallest spear, refreshed, grew taller then: And folded petals on the elm tree, near The garden gatepost where we talked, in clear Denial of the winter's grasp, began To yawn and stretch and open up again. Why does this first spring green disappear? It doesn't really; like love's first fragileness That still remains a part of love fulfilled, Spring is absorbed in summer's richer sheen; But after sudden showers when storms are stilled, Our frail first love and hints of new spring green Color all the aftermath of stress. 172 Third Prize-winning story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Myrtle M. Dean Miartua Lund planned her visit carefully. I won't want too many of my things. Just enough to get along for a few weeks. I don't want to clutter up Helen's house or cause extra trouble. Martha had been a widow almost a year. This was the first extended visit she had made to any of her families. Now she planned to stay a whole month with Helen and Mark and the children. The most important thing I must remember, is never, not even once, to interfere with the family affairs or give unsolicited advice. I mustn't spoil the baby, or give the children sweet treats and ruin their appetites, Martha warned herself. But why should I be getting so worried? It seems such a little while since I was rearing my own children. I didn't mind a few suggestions. Just a few. I'm not old and fussy, I'm only fifty-five. But here Helen and David are getting quite large families. I'm going down and just enjoy Helen's children. Someone to cheer for Johnny But from the very first days of her visit, Martha found that it was going to be much more difficult than she had expected to keep from speaking out of turn about the children. It was for Johnny, the oldest child, that caused her the most concern. Johnny was thirteen, and no one seemed to try very hard to understand his various moods or put up with his boyish ways. Many times, Martha felt like challenging the boy's cause, but held her tongue. There were three other children in the family. Anne, a delightful replica of her mother, Helen, when she was Anne's age. She was now ten. Brent was seven, and he wore a wide toothless smile most of the time. Then baby Carol was two, an adorable child with blue eyes and dimples. Helen and Mark seemed content with life, and the whole family welcomed Martha warmly. It was the very first afternoon of her visit. Johnny came burst- 173 ing into the house, his eyes bright and his face sunny. "Mom, Mom," he called, "we are playing the Cubs tonight at five o'clock. It isn't just a practice. It is a real league game, and they are one of the best teams." Johnny had raised his voice louder than necessary, and it had skidded from high falsetto down almost to low bass. Martha smiled. She knew that Johnny had wanted her to know that he was on a league ball team. He looked embarrassed at the way his thirteen-year-old voice played tricks on him. She was about to speak when Helen's words stopped her. "Johnny, don't shout. I've told you before not to shout, I can hear." "O. K., I'm sorry." Johnny's voice was low, and he turned away to avoid Martha's eyes. 174 Miartha waited a moment before she could trust herself to speak. Then she addressed herself to Johnny. "What place do you play on your team?" she asked. "Oh, I play third base tonight. Sometimes I pitch for our team. Our coach uses three pitchers so none of us will tire our arm too much. I am lucky to get to play third. There were three other kids that tried out for it." Some of the enthusiasm had returned to Johnny's voice as he felt Martha's interest. "That boy," Helen said in a troubled tone after he had left the room. ''Would you believe, Mother, that this is the same boy? You remember how cute he was with his chubby legs and winsome smile and dimples. But now, those lanky legs—his trousers can't keep up with them, and that sliding squeaky voice, and he simply shouts as though I were deaf.'' Helen clasped both of her hands over her face, as though she were completely baffled. Martha knew that her face showed her disapproval. She looked away from Helen and choked back her words that hurried to her mind. Maybe I should tell her now what I think. Maybe it is my duty to say something. If he shouts, it is because no one around here pays any attention to him, only to criticize. Johnny seems to be just a thirteen-yearold nuisance, who eats a lot and grows too fast and sometimes says silly things to get a little attention. This was what she wanted to tell Helen now, but she breathed deeply, and after a moment tried to make her voice sound natural and speak lightly. She must not break her resolve already. "You know, Helen, I've heard that most all boys reach a stage when their voice slips from high C to low G, but maybe you would like Johnny to go through life talking like a girl. And good-looking men like your father were once long-legged, growing boys. His own mother told me how she was afraid he was going all to legs when he was a kid." "Well, I do hope he turns out as good as Dad and Mark," Helen said a bit more cheerfully. An hour later, Mark came home from his game of golf. He had gone to play straight from his ofSOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY fice. He was smiling and gave quite a recital of the game. "Brad Clark says I'm doing so well I'll be in the league play by late summer. I'm sure glad you gave me those golf clubs for my birthday, Helen."' Mark. Went about calling loudly from bathroom to hall to living room talking enthusiastically about his game. "He shouts every bit as loud as Johnny when he is pleased with himself," Martha told herself. "Brad Clark is Mark's_ best friend. He says that the fellows always take their wives along when they go for tournament playoffs. If Mark makes it, just think, I'll get to go to Las Vegas, and California and even Sun Valley." Helen spoke excitedly. "Don't count your chickens yet, Helen," Mark said. "Is dinner ready? I'm plain starved. Golfing sure make a fellow hungry." "T told Johnny to be home by six for dinner. It is almost time," Helen told him. Johnny came in before dinner was on the table. He hurried in to the bathroom to clean up and get out of his ball suit. Helen caught a glimpse of him and exclaimed, "Johnny, you look like you had rolled in the dirt. Don't wear that suit again until I take it to the cleaners."' As Johnny took his place at the table, Martha knew by his solemn face that they had lost their game to the Cubs. For once she was glad that everyone paid little at- 175 MARCH 1964 tention to him nor questioned about the game. Perhaps it might be a good idea to get Mark to talking again about golf. "Your father made quite a hit at the golf course today, Johnny," Martha said. "Tell us about it, Mark." Mark obliged by giving a minute description of how he teed off and survived so many hazards. He had played eighteen holes, he said. Helen laughed heartily as Mark went on telling how his ball landed so near the water's edge by a little pond that it took a really miraculous shot to get it away, and it landed safe near a cup. Johnny was smiling and as enthusiastic for his father's skill as the rest. "Boy, I'd like to go and watch you play, Dad. Maybe I could even caddie for you." Just why can't they notice Johnny's games that much? Martha wondered. A few days later, Johnny made another effort to gain a bit of attention. "T get to pitch for our game against the Bears, tonight," he said, looking mostly at his grandmother, but watching the rest of the family, too. Helen was busy starting dinner, and Martha was holding the baby. "What is your team called?" Martha asked. "We are the Lions. We have a pretty good team, but sometimes we are quite tame for Lions. We don't beat all our games." 176 "Well, neither do the Yankees," Martha said. "One must learn to be a good loser. That is half of the object of playing a game," she explained. She knew that Johnny was still smarting under his team's last loss. "It is a warm afternoon. You will be tired riding a bike to the park. I will drive you down in my car, Johnny. I think I'd like to watch the Lions and the Bears play. It is a long time since I watched boys play ball." Martha tried to sound convincing. "Oh, I can go, Grandma. You don't need to take me." Now Martha didn't really know whether Johnny was afraid he would be a bother to her, or did not want to be seen coming to a game with just an old lady. "T'd sure like you to see our game, though," the boy hastened to say. Helen heard the conversation and spoke up promptly, "Goodness, Mother, you would be bored stiff. They are just a bunch of kids. Thirteen and fourteeners. You don't want to go and sit an hour or two on those seats. They are just board benches and no back rests." Right now is the time for me to speak up to Helen. Right now I will tell her that showing your interest in a boy's doings when he is thirteen and unsure of himself and the world he lives in, is more important than worrying about a hard bench to sit on, or being busy with many little trifles, or even a round of golf for an adult. But no, Helen and Mark must learn this for themselves. Martha counted ten, then turned to Johnny. "You know when my David was about your age, I went often to watch his team play. He pitched sometimes, too. Your Mom used to go along. She liked to watch her brother play. Don't you remember, Helen?"' "T'm afraid it was Rod Barnes I was more interested in than Brother Dave or the game. I had a kid crush on Rod. He was catcher and I thought he was cute." Helen laughed, recalling the days. "You run along, Johnny," Martha told him when _ they reached the parking at the ball park. ''Looks as if they are about ready to play." Martha felt a bit self-conscious coming 'here, a strange woman following a boy along. She thought she would let him get on the field, then she would saunter over to a bench. She found a place where she had a good view of the batter's box and of the _ bases. There were quite a number of watchers there already. Mothers, a few fathers, and many youngsters the age of the players. As she watched Johnny it seemed that he knew all the tricks of the big league pitchers as far as she could tell. He stooped and picked up the rosin bag to use on his palms, then stood on one foot, then turned to view all of the bases carefully before he made a throw to the batter. "Hey! Johnny, that was a swell SOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY curve you threw," she heard a fan call as Johnny came in after the first inning. All through the game there were cheers for him from the crowd. No wonder the boy comes home all excited and wants his family to know about his games. Martha hadn't enjoyed anything as much as this game for a long time. If some of her enthusiasm could just seep over to his family! "Boy, we just made that game by a squeak,' Johnny said, as they drove home. "Just by two runs. I was scared stiff." "You did a mighty fine job pitching, and you made two of the runs, too, if I counted right," Martha praised him. "T heard you cheering for me, Grandma, when I made those runs. It sure helps to hear someone cheer," Johnny said. "Well, and I heard a lot of other folks cheering for you, some said you threw a good curve, and a drop ball, whatever that means." "T wish my folks liked to watch me play, like some of the kids' parents do. I guess they just don't care for baseball. Dad likes golf, and Mom is too busy or something." Johnny's voice was wistful, and his eyes held a yearning that made Martha have a choke come in her throat. When they reached home, Helen was busy talking to Madge Call, planning a progressive dinner they were to head next week. Mark was cleaning up for dinner. Anne was excited about a dance program. She was in and was 177 MARCH 1964 dancing about the living room, practicing her new dance steps. The baby was tired and hungry, and even Brent's usual toothless smile was turned upside down. Someone had accidently broken one of his model airplanes that afternoon. 'Mother is a wonderful cook, Madge, she can help me think up a good recipe. We want something special, Mother, for the dessert for our dinner," Helen said. When things had quieted a bit, and the family came to dinner, Martha planned to talk a bit, if she could hold the floor for a change. She began before anyone else had time to get a start on her. "It was quite a ball game today that Johnny's team _ played against the Bears."' Martha raised her voice a bit louder than usual to be sure to get attention. "You don't mean that you went, Grandma?" Mark asked in surprise. "Certainly, I went, and you should have seen Johnny pitch that game. Why he threw outcurves and in-curves and drop balls and really kept the batter guessing. He made two runs, too. It was two, wasn't it, Johnny, or was it three?" Martha talked on rapidly, not allowing time for interpolations from anyone on any other subject. Even Johnny sat wide-eyed and smiling as she extolled him. For a moment he was almost believing all she was saying about him. As she stopped talking for a moment, he lowered his eyes modestly, but Martha 178 saw the sweet smile that clung to his lips. "Must have been some playing Johnny did today," Mark conceded. "I surely take my hat off to a fellow like Dan Hartley who will take the trouble to coach a bunch of kids." "Dan is sure a swell guy," Johnny spoke up then. Miartua felt triumphant in the fact that Johnny's game had taken up ten minutes of the dinnertime conversation, so, when Mark quite naturally remembered that he had been playing that afternoon, too, and needed some attention, Martha relinquished her time to him. Mark went into another vivid play-byplay account of his two rounds of golf, not missing any of the details of his great tee-offs. Mark is just a little boy, men are that way, I guess, but can't they see that Johnny is a little boy, too? He is their little boy, Martha said to herself as they left the table. "Tonight is our last game of this season," Johnny announced that last week of Martha's visit. '"'We play the Tigers, and they are the best team of all." Martha felt a tugging inside her chest of — maybe it was loneliness at the thought of returning home—home where there would be only quiet and no worrying about Johnny and his problems. And she was really going to miss hearing the talk of ball and dinner parties and even of Mark's golf. She was glad, too, that she had, so far, held her tongue and not really spoken her mind as she had been tempted to do so many times here. Now this was Johnny's last season game. She wanted to see him play, but it was such an important game to win to come out on top. She felt she could not bear to see Johnny's face if they lost the game. "Your last game, you say, Johnny?" Martha repeated. "Tonight, did you say, Johnny?" Helen jumped up excitedly and started for Johnny's room. "Your ball suit — I've had so many things, I simply forgot your suit. I'd be disgraced if you play in that dirty suit, your most important game." Martha let Helen finish before she interrupted her. '""You won't have to be disgraced, neither will Johnny. I hope you will forgive my interference, but I had some things that needed cleaning before I go home, so I took Johnny's suit along." "Oh, Mother, thanks. I'd simply die if he went that dirty," Helen spoke in relief. AFTER dinner was over, Johnny got into his ball suit. He seemed extra quiet and looked troubled. Martha, watching him, knew that he was nervous about the game. "Just play your best, Johnny. If you lose you will know you did all you could. Do you pitch the game tonight?" "Yes, Johnny, you can't do more than try your best," Mark spoke up. SOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY "TI play on third tonight. Ill feel awful if I let a ball go by me. Some of those Tigers are really tough," Johnny said. "Lions are fierce, too," Martha pointed out. Three of Johnny's teammates came by now on their bicycles. They called in for Johnny, as they were all supposed to get to the park early for final instructions. "My Dad is bringing a load of folks down in his station wagon later for the game," one of the boys said. '"'Mom has to pick Dad up at his office, he gets off just near game time," another boy remarked. Martha noted that Mark and Helen heard the boys talking and looked over at each other. She watched Johnny's face, too. It grew so serious and she thought that he was about to speak. He wants to ask his father to go to the game, but is too proud to ask when his friends are here. As he turned back to the boys, Martha spoke. "You boys play real hard and T'll bet on your winning," she laughed. 'But if you do lose, be good losers."' "Don't talk about losing. We gotta win this one," the tallest boy said. "T hardly ever let a swift ball pass me now. My Dad has been throwing balls to me for a week now, each evening," one of the visitors said. "Come on, Johnny, or we'll be late. Let's go." The boys all hur- 179 MARCH 1964 ried away and pedaled down the street. Martha felt a big lump in her throat and a stinging in her eyes. She wanted so much to see that last game. But she knew that it wasn't what Johnny wanted most. He wanted his parents to witness this game. She started to leave the room. She heard Mark speaking to Helen. "What kind of parents has Johnny got? Helen, we've got a boy playing on that team tonight. It's their last game. Did you hear Johnny say this is the last one, and we haven't been to one?" "Yes, I know. We have surely let our boy down, Mark." Helen was weeping. "Well, hurry up everybody. We are all going to be at that game," Mark spoke hurriedly. "But, Mark, didn't you say you told Brad you would meet him for golf?" Mark was already picking up the phone. "I'm sorry but I can't make it for golf tonight, Brad. No — No — I've got a kid playing ball tonight on the league. You see he's already made league play, all on his own." "T'll be glad to stay with the baby," Martha offered. "Oh, no, you won't, Grandma. Johnny would feel let down if you were not there to help us cheer for his team," Mark told her, "Tl call my regular baby sitter, Mother. You are coming along," Helen said. "Yes, and cheer loud everybody," Mark called. "Just to see Johnny's face when he sees us will be worth a million dollars." Miverte M. Dean, Provo, Utah, who is already well known to readers of the Magazine, tells us that She loves to write. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers. Her first story was published in The Relief Society Magazine Rowena Jensen Bills The brilliance of the sun came forth And focused on the walk, Snow became Silvery lakes; And | heard sparrow-talk. The trees adorned themselves in buds, Insects emerged to sing; March winds mellowed to a breeze, Heralding the spring. 180 Mirs. Esther E. Peterson, a native Utahn, Assistant Secretary of Labor in the Cabinet of President Lyndon B. Johnson, in January, was given the additional post of Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs, with the special duties of "organizing the consumer and making his voice heard." Mrs. Peterson now holds the highest position in the executive department of the Government ever assigned to a woman. A _ wife, mother, and homemaker, Mrs. Peterson has a wide interest and special training in many fields of social service, and civic and governmental affairs. L. EsLey Frost Ballantine, daughter of poet Robert Frost, whose death all America mourned in 1963, has been a teacher, a journalist, an author, a bookstore proprietor, and a lecturer for the State Department in Spain and Latin America. In an article in the December Redbook, "Our Family Christmas," she describes a Christmas when the Frost children were young, and she lists Ramona W. Cannon a group of choice family Christmas readings that any family would find useful. Kyunc O. Kim is the only woman pilot in the Republic of Korea. She is now the proud owner of a new Piper Colt airplane. The project was sponsored by the International Organization of Women Pilots, by a special committee called a "Colt for Kim," which was organized through the efforts of Mrs. Doris H. Renninger of East Norwich, New York, and other members of the women pilots' organization. Lapy Clementine Churchill jis the subject of a biography, My Darling Clementine, written by Jack Fishman, which is on the top-selling list of books in Britain, the European Continent, and America. Lady Clementine, a Grecian-type beauty, has devoted her charm, tact, and intelligence to her unusual husband, Sir Winston, and to his turbulent career. He proudly acknowledges her contributions to his life, happiness, and success. 18] EDITORIAL We are the LaTTER-DAY Saint women are the beneficiaries of an inheritance of ideals realized; of faith exercised; of virtues richly rewarded; of strivings fulfilled; of goals finally reached. From the women who pioneered in the beginning days of the Church, the women of today may inherit all they will accept of the qualities of womanhood. We have received the legacy of hope when to hope seemed fruitless, of ability to accept and overcome, of strength to endure to the end, of work unceasing, of loyalty to our Father in heaven, to the Church, to loved ones, to each other. This legacy, wisely used, can make us rich in blessings in this life and the life to come. Ours is an unusually beneficient heritage of love from a Godfearing and God-loving ancestry. Ours is the heritage of testimonies borne in words and living deeds. Ours is a heritage of courage from women who had to summon courage in the depths of adversity and trial, sacrifice, and tribulation—courage obtained from sublime faith, unwavering determination, and absolute knowledge of the divinity of the gospel. The early Relief Society women were resourceful in meeting the vicissitudes of life in their day. Resourcefulness is a quality Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Fanny S. Kienitz 182 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer beneficiaries much needed in our day. They achieved patience in the midst of difficulty. Patience is needful to us in our complex lives. They, of necessity, became industrious and thrifty, with provident living their watchword. Industry and thrift add to our security as we, too, strive to be provident homemakers. They learned dependence upon the Lord, and prayer guided their lives. Prayer and dependence upon the Lord guide us as well. To see the right, the straight and narrow path through chaos and confusion was their blessing, and is our desire. They had to simplify their lives to a degree perhaps not expected of us, but their pattern is one to be followed. We in Relief Society are the beneficiaries of the Prophet's vision, of a revelation from heaven for the creation of an organization for the women of the Church. We are the beneficiaries of inspired plans, well-defined policies, and wisely determined procedures. All the greatness of the Father's plans for his daughters is ours to enjoy. This is our inheritance; not to be squandered but to be built upon. This is our treasure; not to be buried, but to be increased. This is our inspiration; not to be snuffed as a candle, but followed as a light. —L. W. M. } Elizabeth B. Winters Hazel S. Cannon Oa J. Cannon LaRue H. Rosell Hazel S. Love Lila B. Walch Jennie R. Scott Fawn H. Sharp Lenore C. Gundersen Alice L. Wilkinson Celestia J. Taylor Marjorie C. Pingree LaPriel S. Bunker Anne R. Gledhill Darlene C. Dedekind Irene W. Buehner Belva Barlow Cleone R. Eccles Irene C. Lloyd Zola J. McGhie The American Donor Program Red Cross Tur keys to the success of the Red Cross Blood program are the individual donor and the spirit of giving which motivates him to make an investment in living. It is this same universal spirit of brotherhood which makes the humanitarian work of the Red Cross possible everywhere in the world. This makes it possible for the American Red Cross to operate the largest blood program in the world, totally through voluntary donors, providing about fifty per cent of the whole blood used in the Nation. To help keep pace with the increased blood needs of the Nation brought on by rises in population and medical advances, the Red Cross is carrying on extensive research in three broad areas: maintaining a rare blood donor file; long-time preservation of blood by freezing; and research in fractionation—the discovery and refinement of blood components which are necessary in certain diseases. Gamma globulin prevents and modifies some diseases; serum albumin combats shock; fibrinogen controls hemorrhaging in certain conditions. The gift of blood is a two-way miracle which heals the receiver, and blesses the giver with the wonderful satisfaction that can come only from helping someone else to live. Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue T ue April 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. All of the authors of these stories are being featured as story writers for the first time in the Magazine, and their places of residence indicate the widespread geographical distribution of Latter-day Saint women interested in contributing to The Relief Society Magazine. Watch for these stories in April: "More Blessed to Receive," by Nita Ellis, Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales "The Storm," by Lila Spencer, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada "Please, Not This One," by Merle E. Feriante, San Mateo, California "Be Yourself,' by Betty G. Spencer, American Fork, Utah 184 Margaret Russel] WE were standing on our respective porches, chatting. I, broom In hand, had Just remarked on the lovely day. She had agreed that it was indeed lovely and, pulling on gloves, mentioned that she was going to see her Sister. I said, "Wonderful! | envy you." She said, "You Should. My sister is a doll." hen, obviously Speaking from the heart, she said it. "Don't you sisters!' The remark warmed me at the time and has rewarmed me Many times since. | have come Just love your to the conclusion that the sister relationship is one of the very precious things of this world. I was third in a family of five girls, so I have always had Sisters, One of my first memories involves hiding behind a door after a punishment, with a hand suddenly reaching around with an offering of candy. I can also remember walking to that exciting, but firmly holding mine. And I can recall quite clearly — the moment still generates a glow — a tiny sister sitting on my mother's lap, smiling and holding out her hands. We were a noisy, active group. My father taught school in small Wyoming towns, and we were always piling into the car to take a trip up to Five Springs or out into the badlands. Once we took a wrong turning and became lost, going on and on into the night with the headlights boring into the darkness and the stars blazing out above. After a time the moon rose. It was enormous and 185 MARCH 1964 deep red in color. Somewhere on the mountain there was a forest fire! The car became very still, with only an occasional, cryptic remark from one of our parents to break the silence. Suddenly, without any need for consultation, we girls joined hands and bowed our heads in prayer. We loved to sing and did so almost every evening. To this day, five minutes after any two or more of us get together, the house is likely to be bursting with song. My oldest sister was very popular with the boys. She was very popular with me, also, as she was almost never without a box of candy, often the kind with Brazil nuts in the middle. She had a difficult time, though, in many ways, because our parents being still young and tense, were determined to do their full duty by her. Any small misdemeanor found Plet sitting, cringing, on a chair while the law was explained to her in no uncertain fashion. Today Plet is a very special person, lovely to look at and to talk to, capable and womanly always. All I can say is — scoldings and chocolates must be magic therapy! My second sister was very particular about her drawer. I am positive that she had the position of each article duly measured and recorded, because I can recall investigating with the greatest of care and still having to flee for my life later. Carol was always very efficient and talented. She learned to bake bread at an early 186 age and to "do" hair. She also directed the singing in the Primary at eleven years of age and played the piano a year or two later. She is presently a resident of Albuquerque where she gives away everything she owns that isn't nailed down. She remembers birthdays, keeps family records, and is, I can say without equivocation, the kindest, most thoughtful individual I have ever known. Orvilla, the fourth one of our group, had blue eyes and dark hair worn in ringlets. Mother dampened the hair every morning and brushed the ringlets into place around her finger, anchoring them with bobby pins. On below-zero, Big-Horn-Mountains mornings these ringlets would become white with frost. The other distinctive thing about Orvilla was the way she broke things. It was always understood that she was never under any circumstances to be allowed to carry anything breakable. I can remember plodding along a dirt road one day with a little pest hopping and jumping about beside me, coaxing and coaxing to carry the mayonnaise. "TI'll be so careful. I'll hold it so tight and walk just like this. Oh come on, please " Finally I gave it to her, and two seconds later she tripped over a rock and broke it. Orvilla lives today in California, in a small ward. She has a blackboard in her kitchen that is always filled with notations of the things she had to do this week. She writes rather droll, tongue- in-cheek letters about the goingson in the Golden State. Ruth was our baby. She still is. I wonder if it's this way with all families. We five have been adults for many years, but Plet is still the "big" sister, and Ruth is the "baby."' We look to Plet for a certain amount of guidance and are all rather free with our advice to Ruth. Anyway, be that as it may, Ruth was a very satisfactory little one, singing about "Master, the tempest is raging; the pillows are tossing high," and other interesting things. She was always bringing cats home and producing them from _ behind her back with a _ heartfelt ple-e-ese! This method had never worked with us older girls, but it did with Ruth. It's a wonder, though, that we didn't kill her. By the time she came along the rest of us were climbing the cottonwoods and walking the ridgepole of the barn with no trouble at all. As soon as Ruth could toddle we dragged her along. I was so used to romping around on top of the barn that I could not understand why neighbor children acted nervous, or why Ruth slipped once and hung, her skirt attached to a nail on the edge of the roof, until rescued. Ruth now has six little ones of her own. We talk together on the phone nearly every day, and her remarks are always interspersed with little '"careful-there-Louis" and '"'well-go-get-the-mop, dear." She has an almost limitless capacity for love and patience and she is never, believe it or not, in DON'T YOU LOVE YOUR SISTERS! The least degree critical of anyone. These, then, are my sisters. My blood sisters. Any time I see any one of them I am gloriously happy, and we talk, talk, talk. And now I come to the thought that inspired this article. I was sitting in Relief Society one Tuesday, enjoying and being mellowed by an exceptionally fine social science lesson. My eye fell on one sister who is so stalwart and good, upon sisters who have devoted their lives to others, a sister who has three sons on missions; the members of our presidency, who shoulder so uncomplainingly the heavy burdens of work that their offices entail, whose sweet spirits do much to insure that our meetings are always inspirational and worthwhile. As I looked at these sisters and the many other dear ones present that day, I felt the same glow of love, the same spiritual closeness that I feel for my physical sisters. And I realized, as I mentioned earlier, the preciousness of the relationship, and felt extremely blessed for having sisters in such abundance. The picture came to me of Relief Societies meeting all over the world all of them attended by women who are striving to live the principles of the gospel, all united by a spiritual tie. How wonderful it is to be associated together! I am sure that all of you, everywhere, say it with me. Love our sisters? Oh, indeed, indeed we do. 187 More Value than: many = SParrows = Margaret Woods Walisall, Staffordshire, England once. Many years ago, she ll-known and dear 4SSociations, in order to seek greater happiness and love. The new life Pain and Many Sacrifices as home; most demand his "Vat a Child he is," and SOaked bre Mm the back arden on, zen he can really en Joy himself" She went out to feed the w 8arden glistened With frost. The b White lily Pond was ave all the Scraps § heavily on the MORE VALUE THAN MANY SPARROWS herself to the limit in persisting to place new food on her lawn the minute the last meal was devoured. In this way, blackbird and the more timid ones, such as dainty thrush and cheeky robin, were able to pick up the crumbs that were left after the attack of the tough fellows was over. T HE morning came, however, when the old lady could not leave her bed. She tried, desperately, but the pain in her chest and the weight of her limbs was too great. "You won't forget to feed my blackbird, will you?" she would say to those who came to tend her each day. But she knew that although the bird would be fed, as she had asked, that it needed the continual feeding of one who really cared and loved to be sure that the weaker ones received enough. "How is blackbird faring? Has he been seen today?" But others did not share her interest, although she knew they meant well. The time came when the old lady was well again and able to leave her bed. She looked repeatedly for her beloved bird, but he never came. "He must be finding his food elsewhere," she decided. "He has forgotten how I loved and cared for him. He might be. Oh, no! Not that. "But she wondered if he could have died from hunger because of the neglect of other people. She hoped not and continued to place food outside each day. Then, one morning, she saw robin hopping about, eyeing the food from a distance. Retreating quickly to the house, she stood in the shadows and watched through her kitchen window. To her delight, she saw him — her blackbird. She knew it was he because of the odd little way he drooped one wing. He had come back! Oh! How happy she was. She wanted to rush out to him, but knew she must wait for him to become tame again. It would be a slow process, but if she was careful and diligent, he would again peep at her through the window and peck the tidbits she dug up for him. She spent the springtime in fostering again his love and was pleased to see his gentle brown wife. The leggy thrushes and robin redbreasts were now also frequent visitors to her garden, along with the many, inevitable sparrows. One mild, summer evening, she sat rocking in her chair by the open window. There had been a gentle rain shower which had refreshed the flowers and leaves, and now the red evening sun splashed the western sky. The old lady's heart filled with gratitude and pleasure as she heard what was to her the most beautiful sound in all the world — the song of blackbird as he sat high in the elder tree, flinging his regained message to the wide, glowing sky. 189 Who Plants a Garden? Eva Willes Wangsgaard | love a flower garden. Gardens hold Our yesterdays, todays, and coming years. Who plants a garden watches time unfold As sharply pointed as the iris spears. Her loving hands preside at beauty's birth. She sees a plan become a living scene Replete with color rooted deep in earth As warm as flame or cool as ivy green. She garners strength and peace of mind from soil, Becomes an intimate with sun and wind, Forgets her pain, her sorrow, and her toil, Renews her faith, herself is disciplined. A gardener's eyes reveal a forward look And patience learned from wisdom's ancient book. The World's Favorite POSES erry 5. Oer Or all the flowers on the earth, the rose has probably had the longest and closest association with man. It is believed to be the first flower brought under cultivation and has the most extensive written record, dating back thousands of years. Rose—the word is the mother of romance and legend. It is the symbol of perfection and love. Roses graced the gardens of kings and climbed the cottages of the poor. Roses are a part of our life and our heritage. People, places, and things wear the word rose in their names. Roses abound in literature and music, as well as in the gardens of the world. They are grown extensively, not only for their beauty but for perfume and flavorings, for medicines and vitamin C content of the rose hips. 191 MARCH 1964 It is believed that the rose originated in Central Asia; then spread to North America, to west Asia Minor, and Europe. There is evidence that a garden rose was cultivated in Greece about the fifth century B. C. And in Chinese gardens A. P. 1000. The Moors, invading Spain, brought with them roses they had discovered in Syria. One was the first yellow rose to appear in Europe, the climbing Cathay Rose. Crusaders brought back roses; merchants carried roses from country to country, and from continent to continent. Out of the long and tangled history of the rose some facts emerge. Though most wild roses are pink or white, wall paintings in Crete, 4000 years old, depict the "Persian Yellow" rose. Gardeners all over the world have cultivated and crossed and recrossed roses to bring us finally the magnificent hybrid tea roses, the reigning queens of our gardens today. The horticultural named varieties are divided loosely into two classes: 1. The Hybrid Perpetuals (the old garden roses) 2. The Hybrid Tea Roses — now the world's favorite roses (these include climbers and tree roses). The rose of the year 1964 is the magnificent '"World's Fair Salute," a rich red beauty of perfect form. This rose, with previous "Roses of the Year" — "South Seas," '"Tropicana" — and others will be on special exhibit at the World's Fair in New York. GROWING ROSES Buy good stock. Consult your nurseryman if disease develops. Water deeply once a week. Have good drainage. If you sprinkle, do so early enough in the day so that the bushes will dry before sunset to avoid mildew. Slipping roses can be very successful. For a slip, either tear off or clip off a stem from a most beautiful rose — with six sets of leaves. Clip off the three bottom leaves; now plant so that only the three top leaves are above ground. Cover with an inverted glass jar and keep damp until the second year. Put a thin wash of mud in the bottle in the hot summer months to temper the sun. These "bottle-babies" can be transplanted. Libraries can acquaint you further with the vast world of roses. Some gardeners recommend afternoon as the best time for cutting roses for bouquets. Plunge them into lukewarm water — never cold — up to their necks. Change them daily to fresh, lukewarm water. VIEW IN MUNICIPAL ROSE GARDENS, PORTLAND, OREGON TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS 192 PINK PARFAIT ROSE "Pink Parfait," one of the 1961 winners, is particularly showy for mass planting. It bears abundantly; has pink petals, frosted with white at tips and base, and is beautiful in bud and as a full-bloom rose, with its gold heart and its curled, white-frosted petals. TROPICANA ROSE "Tropicana," 1963 winner, has won the most prizes — thirteen international awards. Seldom a new color bursts on the world of roses, and in such a perfect plant — a brilliant, almost fluorescent, pure orange-red. Medium large, very full, fragrant, very vigorous, tall; tough, glossy foliage. Non-fading. May attain the popularity of "Peace." SOUTH SEAS ROSE "South Seas," 1962 winner, is very large and a very full, warm, rich pink, faintly washed with deeper pink. Beautiful from bud to maturity, very hardy, disease and mildew-resistant, as are all award winners, tested for years before marketing. Blooms profusely. PEACE ROSE "Peace," 1945 winner from France, named at close of World War II, with a 9.6 rating of a possible 10 points, is still the world's most popular rose. Light to deep yellow, with pale to deep cerise pink toward petals' edges, fading almost to white and pale pink in maturity. Very vigorous, very large, very full, deep green, glossy foliage. Profuse bloom. « i J THE MATTERHORN, SWITZERLAND TRANSPARENCY BY TOM ELLIOTT Curled in Seed Alice Morrey Bailey More than beauty wraps these slopes in white From creek to peak, from crag to river-bed. A blanket, this, against the winter night, Suspending floods from which the streams are fed. And snug beneath, in caves and hollow trees, The mountain mothers feed their young. The pine Is printed in the nut, honey-drowsed are bees, And curled in seed is fragile columbine. And soon the sun's slow wheeling toward the north Will melt the sterile waste deep to the roots. When bright-eyed babies of the woods come forth, And limbs are tender-green with new-leafed shoots, These hills will burst to life, for down below, Awaiting warmth, is spring in embryo. 197 TRANSPARENCIES BY ROBERT PEASE Painting with Glass Florian H. Thayn Wuat does a thrifty, talented woman do with old broken glass dishes, empty pop bottles, or scraps of colored glass? In College Park Ward, Washington Stake, she saves them, guards them jealously, and sorts them carefully into dozens of shoe boxes! If a longsuffering husband, who has patiently seen her through the tin-canused-flash-bulb-tree-ornament phase, asks Why? She calmly explains: "A lovely picture is being created from practically nothing." From there the conversation gets more complicated, or unbelievable, depending upon his past experiences with unfinished projects! 198 PAINTING WITH GLASS Pictures from glass are a creation of Betty Beesley Huber, ward work meeting leader. It all began over two years ago when she visioned the artistic possibilities of the use of tiny pieces of glass to create a three-dimensional mosaic picture lovely enough to hang in simple rooms, or sufficiently striking to decorate lavish homes and offices. Her daughter, Sharon Huber Carter, sketched the designs, and from the ideas of this mother-daughter team have grown a most unusual activity for the College Park Relief Society and a blossoming business for the Huber-Carter team. The process for this art is the result of much study and experimentation. Nearly a year was spent finding the proper adhesive. The popular glues commonly used by housewives to mend broken dishes and wobbly furniture failed, as did the cements and epoxy glues. Finally, a jeweler's cement was found, which, when properly applied, holds the glass secure. Collecting the Glass As with most arts, it is the time that is the expense. Hours and hours have been spent collecting the glass and processing it. The most easily obtained colors in glass are found in broken bleach bottles and in green soft-drink bottles. The bright blue found in magnesia bottles and other containers is a favorite color. The pinks found in cheap dishes from second hand stores or in variety stores are most welcome. One sister brought in the parts of a once lovely orange iridescent bowl and said her sorrow at breaking it faded when she realized she could use it in the pictures! Sister Huber accidentally broke a family heirloom, a cut glass bowl, which couldn't be mended. The pictures that have bits of that bowl in the design are a pioneer treasure! Another sister enlisted her relatives and spent part of her vacation time gathering glass in Upstate New York. A broken chandelier she found in the attic of an old hotel supplied the marbleized ''cobblestones" for a fifty-two inch long picture, Camelot. She also discovered a discarded automobile windshield that broke perfectly into honeycombed pieces. The glass was used to give depth and texture to a delightful seahorse. While much of the glass is obtained without cost, unusual and bright colors are expensive purchases from stained glass dealers. The milk-white glass of broken milk glass or from face cream jars gave a jolly clown perfect "makeup." About the only glass that is not satisfactory is the clear white kind found in most kitchen tumblers, jelly glasses, or white pop bottles, because there is no reflection or depth from such glass. Some colored marbles have been used (when broken in smaller pieces), as special accents. Preparing the Glass The accumulated glass is placed in a 450-500° oven for 30 to 40 minutes to heat it thoroughly. Carefully it is removed with kitchen tongs and hot pads and immediately plunged into a bucket of cold water. The intense heating and quick cooling cause the glass to spackle and to break easily without causing sharp needle splinters that result when unheated glass is pounded. For ease in sorting, only one color of glass should be placed in a bucket at a time, but several pieces may be chilled at one time. (There have been no accidents, since caution has always been used in removing the hot glass from the oven. A lid may be placed over the bucket in case the cracking glass jumps.) The cold glass is placed on pads of newspapers, and the flat side of a hammer is used to break it into small pieces. Again, caution should be used. Small children should be kept away from this process. Even the glass that is nearly powdered in the breaking process is saved and used. In this project, there just isn't any waste! 200 Preparing the Picture Background The next step is to obtain a sturdy picture frame. Brother Ralph Huber was recruited to miter corners and to make some odd-dimensioned frames, but the sisters also searched many fun hours in secondhand shops and old barns, and watched for sales to find the coveted frames at the best prices. The frames must be sufficiently strong to hold the weight of the glass and the plywood backing to which the glass is glued. 201 "Painting'' the Glass Picture A white or egg-shell, plain textured drapery fabric has been found the most satisfactory background on which to work. The material is tacked and glued to plywood cut to fit the frame. The outline of the design is lightly sketched in pencil on the cloth, and then the tedious, but rewarding task of placing the hundreds of pieces of glass begins. The design is first laid out without glue so that it can be altered and changed to satisfy one's artistic taste. It is important to know where and how the glass should be placed before the glue is applied because, once the glue is on, the pieces are there to stay. Care must be used to keep any glue off the fabric where no glass is desired. The glass does not adhere well if too large pieces are used, or if plenty of glue is not used, or if the glue is not also placed on. Adjoining pieces. By using many small pieces close together, the effect of feathers, wind in ships' sails, or various textures can be achieved. Sometimes the glass seems to be placed two or three layers deep, but this illusion comes from the variations in the thickness of the glass. As the placing of the glass progresses, pieces often must be broken to obtain the correct size. To keep the tiny bits from escaping and damaging floors where the work is done, Sister Huber contrived a 12" x 12" wooden box with high sides and a raised platform inside to give the hammering sisters a restricted area in which to "break and _ search!"' Generally, the pictures have the most appeal with the cloth background left bare, but a most attractive, old-fashioned bouquet design was given depth and real importance when the entire background was filled with the pale blue-white found in a heavy soft drink bottle. Gold accents are painted on. Finally, the completed picture is tried in the frame to determine the color of paint, varnish, or finish that will complement the picture. Many of the design ideas are from advertisements, but many artistic sisters made up their own. It is of prime importance to keep the design simple and uncluttered, and careful planning will determine whether your picture is a craft or a lovely work of art. It can be a family project, with father and the older boys sawing the plywood and fitting the frames. The tiniest tot can watch for colored glass bottles to help make a friendly clown, a lovable teddy bear, or a panting puppy. A strutting red rooster of undetermined breed seemed just right for a provincial room. When he was duplicated in shades of cobalt blue and kelly green, he was as modern as tomorrow's weather forecast. A huge eagle with his wings spread has been a repeat best seller. Colored slides are taken of each picture when it is finished. These serve as a pattern for duplicate orders. (continued on page 238) 202 Parleys Sixth Ward Country Fair Bazaar VaLora M. Anderson The success of this bazaar was due to the cooperation and all-out effort of the sisters of Parleys Sixth Ward — newly organized from parts of two other wards only six weeks prior to the bazaar. (Another ward in Parleys Stake lent the booths to this ward.) The willingness of the sisters to serve brought about a closeness and spiritual unity that welded together the two groups of our new ward, and was, we felt, a blessing to our newly organized Relief Society. The following list of sales indicates the popularity of various items: Candy Booth 2.-..---.----.--00------ $ 345.00 Chili and Hot Dogs - 45.00 Fl@am) 53.00 SE ae 47.00 Soft Drinks —20000222 eee 45.38 Pigga Pres: ee 59.50 Desserts _ 00 022020222eceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee 46.80 Bakery 2020222 2. 211s ee2eeeeeeeeeee eee ee enon 38.90 Bazaar ___..22.200222022222e cee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 1,420.00 TOTAL $ 2,100.58 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL CLOTHING AND ITEMS FOR CHILDREN The curved booths, with pink and white canopies, display a variety of items. On the wall at the extreme right are two children's red and white striped pajamas with night caps. To the left of these pajamas are several muumuus and handmade aprons. On the counter are displayed a tree of nylon scouring pads for bathrooms, handmade and hand-decorated bedroom sets for dolls, together with mattress, sheets, bedspreads and pillows. There were twelve sets of these sold at $15 for each set, and many more could have been sold. On the floor to the right is an old-fashioned metal tub, painted black with a bright design. This is perfect as a picnic container. Filled with ice, it will keep soda pop and watermelon cold. Several old-fashioned milk stools and a butter tub, decorated in Pennsylvania Dutch designs, are on the floor in front of the table. At the extreme right is a handmade doll for a child's bed. 205 THE CANDY BOOTH Mary Riley, Parleys Sixth Ward Relief Society President, shows a handpainted bucket of pink popcorn balls. In this colorful booth, trimmed with candy-striped chintz and scalloped in white fringe, stands a green symbolic pine tree, with three sets of shelves. On these Shelves, and on the booth table, are candy containers of many different sizes and shapes, displaying the attractively arranged candies. There are many delicious varieties — Mint Puffs, Chocolate Fudge, Virginia Caramels, Pecan Rolls, Peanut Brittle, and assorted Chocolates. Hanging from the poles, are decorated suckers for the children. All this candy was handmade by the Relief Society sisters. PARLEYS Ot — Welcome + esuntery FAIR DINNER AT THE BAZAAR The Relief Society room and the ward cultural hall were the scene of Parleys Country Fair. The middle of the hall was filled with round-top tables covered with red tablecloths. The centerpieces were wicker sleighs pulled by two reindeer, and filled with small pine boughs and bright-colored Christmas balls. These centerpieces were all sold at $6 each for home Christmas decorations. The walls of the hall were lined with nine booths, covered with red-and-white and green-and-white candy-striped canopies, fringed in white. From these booths food was served. Two of these booths are seen at the left of the picture. There was barbecued beef in one booth, and chili and hot dogs in another booth — and ham sandwiches made from piping hot homemade bread in another. Pizza pies, baked while the ward members watched, were delicious and popular. From the salad booth, tossed green and fruit salads were kept cold on ice trays. One booth sold soft drinks and milk. Pie and cake a la mode and ice cream cones for the children were served at the dessert booth. 207 CHR! Relief Society The colorful Christmas items are attractively d in the walls are sever their 1! Ht are children's prayer a written poem ff a button and | yoom. On On the red streame which says, "Fivery night when you hop in bea. T. On the table, ls 4 wooden cookie tree 1 snted in Pennsylva At the right, _ Two butter tubs of different toys, OF sew! Catch the eye. E Santa pencils. With a music box inside of each one. Ets and Santa doorknob holders. I ade of burlap with yr are y praye dvent calendar red pockets. Planning a Successful Bazaar Counselor Louise W. Madsen PLAN TO PREPARE CAREFULLY A very careful organization of all of the details of every aspect of the bazaar, is of first importance in planning a successful bazaar. The Relief Society presidency make the first decisions, based upon a consideration of what they hope to accomplish, what they have observed from experience of past bazaars, what they have learned from observing other bazaars, and what the sisters in their society would learn from their participation in bazaar preparation. The presidency oversees the entire proceedings, such as setting the date, delegating the responsibilities, and how to report procedures. A General Chairman is selected, a very efficient sister, with a talent for organization and the faculty of arousing enthusiastic cooperation from the members. Other chairmen will be needed to work under her direction. Chairmen for various activities, and for the groups of articles to be produced may be called into the work. The following suggested divisions may be helpful: a Sewing Chairman in charge of certain articles to be sewed and helpful also in the purchase of materials; a Publicity Chairman, a Bake Sale Chairman, a Candy Booth Chairman, an Apron Chairman, a Quilting Chairman, a Toy Chairman, a Children's Clothing Chairman, a Dolls and Doll Clothes Chairman, a Household Linens Chairman, a Christmas Articles Chairman, a Dinner Chairman (if dinner is to be served), a Women's Booth Chairman, a Men's Booth Chairman, and as many others as it is decided will be needed. These chairmen would form the bazaar committee. The committee plans to use every available sister in some capacity, so that all will lend support and have a personal interest in the success of the bazaar. PLAN A PRETTY THEME The most attractive bazaars are planned around a theme or a plan of decoration which extends to all booths and unifies the whole procedure. There are Christmas Fairs, Harvest Fairs, Fall or Backto-School Round-Ups, Spring Festivals, to mention only a few. 209 MARCH 1964 PLAN TO PRODUCE SALEABLE ARTICLES The success of a bazaar is very largely determined by the quality, the quantity, the usefulness, the desirability, the beauty, the unusualness, the workmanship, and the attractiveness of articles for sale. A wise presidency has a record of the items found to be bestsellers in previous bazaars. The same articles, somewhat redesigned, usually sell well again. Plan to prevent leftovers by a careful screening of samples of all proposed articles. Have the general committee assist in judging the worth of each before making more. Find some items that cost nothing and bring a clear profit, such as house plants propagated by the sisters in a long-range plan. '"'White elephants," old jewelry, old hats, and such things are also profitable. An ''assembly line" technique is often a great time saver. Many articles can be produced in one work meeting with this procedure. PLAN TO PLEASE YOUR PATRONS There are many ways to make a bazaar a very pleasurable experience. One is, of course, the beauty and attractiveness of the displays. There are women in every ward with artistic ability, color sense, and originality who could create charming backgrounds and place articles effectively. If you expect your patrons to buy their dinner, keep their comfort in mind. How much better it is to have tables set up and decorated in your theme style, even if food is procured from booths set up around the hall, than to have people stand in long lines waiting to be handed a paper plate through the kitchen window. It is difficult for parents of young children to feed their families this way. Men usually dislike such procedures. Elderly people feel unsure in such a situation. Use your best and most charming sales ladies! Ask them to demonstrate and point out the quality of items. PLAN TO PRICE ARTICLES WISELY A small pricing committee is often used for this important job. Pricing is difficult and takes time and wisdom. Two things to be considered are the amount of material in the article and the amount and quality of the work. The ability of the people in the area to pay is a prime consideration also. Articles underpriced are profit-losers; articles overpriced are a deterrent to sales. There should be many articles in the low price range, from 25¢ to $2.00. Price tags should be attached to every item. Don't depend on the memory of the sales lady. Cater to the browsing instinct of customers. 210 PLANNING A SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR PLAN TO PUBLICIZE WIDELY, INVITINGLY We live in a publicity age. It is a wise chairman who will use all of the publicity ideas from every source available; posters, window displays, letters, individual post cards, printed fliers, radio, television, telephone, newspaper, and personal contact. A personal invitation, interestingly worded and illustrated, helps in attracting attendance and puts the date, time, and place in written form for easy remembrance. With all of this careful planning your bazaar will be successful! The following invitation was used by Parleys Sixth Ward. 7 YOUR FAMILY WILL THINK YOU'RE A DEAR! -- ano vyoutur FIND You'rRE DOUGH' AHEAD lF YOU BRING THEM ALL TO THE WONDERFUL WaRO BAZAAR FOR DINNER ~-= 6 P. Mey FRIDAY Novemper 15, YOU'VE NEVER 'HERD' oF sucH BUYS ON FOOD == APPEALING TO EVERY APPETITE -= AND iF YOU'RE A BARGAIN 'HUNTER', AlM TO BE THERE! BESIDES THE YUMMY FOOD (anpd No DISHES To DO) THE RELIEF SOCIETY HAS PREPARED FABULOUS Rid CANDY, COOKIES, HANDIWORK === EVERYTHING FOR YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING. AND THAT'S NOT ALL! THe GREAT Film, "Windows oF HEAVEN", PRODUCED BY THE CHURCH, WILL BE SHOWN SEVERAL TIMES DURING THE EVENING. TH! S INSPIRATIONAL FILM PORTRAYS THE D! VINE GUIDANCE OF LORENZO SNow iN ST. GEORGE. BE A DEAR! Brina Your 'OoE' ANDO HAVE A LOT OF Famity "FAWN!!! CHARLOTTE RUSSE ~~ Ingrid W. Olsen 1 tbsp. Gelatin % c. Cold water Ya ¢. Powdered sugar Soak gelatin in cold water. Dissolve in scalded cream and strain. Add sugar and vanilla. Set bowl in cold water and stir until thick. Fold in whipping cream. V3 ¢. Scalded table cream 6 ladyfingers whipped cream for garnishing Y2 c. Whipping cream 1% tsp. Vanilla Line another bowl with ladyfingers and pour the mixture into the lined bowl. Top with whipped cream. Desserts That Please the Family Florence K. Gates CUSTARD 12 large egg yolks 12 tbsp. Sugar 2 tsp. Vanilla 6 c. Milk Y2 tsp. Salt nutmeg Add sugar and salt to 5% c. Milk. Mix well and scald; pour over egg yolks which have been slightly beaten with ¥ ¢. Of the milk. Add vanilla and strain into 2-quart casserole. Sprinkle top of custard with nutmeg. Set casserole in pan of hot water and bake at 350° until firm—about 45 to 55 minutes. (Place on middle rack of oven so water in pan will not boil.) Smaller amounts can be made by using basic recipe: Ya c. Milk 1 egg yolk vanilla 1 tbsp. Sugar spk. Salt nutmeg Follow directions above. ANGEL FOOD CAKE 12 large egg whites (1% to 2 c.) lc. Plus 2 tbsp. Sifted cake flour 212 1% c. Sugar % tsp. Salt 1% tsp. Cream of tartar 1 tsp. Vanilla or 4% tsp. Lemon extract % tsp. Almond extract Sift 2 ¢. Of the sugar and flour 4 times. Add salt to egg whites and whip until frothy; add cream of tartar and continue whipping; add extract and 1 c¢. Of sugar gradually. Whip until whites are stiff but not dry, and will stand in peaks. Fold in flour and sugar mixture carefully. Pour into large ungreased angel food cake pan and place in oven on center rack. Bake 35 minutes at 350° in preheated oven. Take from oven and invert pan until cold before removing. ORANGE ICING 3 c. Powdered sugar 4 tbsp. Butter 1 egg yolk dash of salt 1 tbsp. Grated lemon rind 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind 1 tbsp. Orange juice 1 tsp. Lemon juice Cream butter, sugar, salt. Add egg yolk and other ingredients and whip until smooth and fluffy. (For a more elegant cake frost with 7- minute icing and coconut.) Hollingsworth it ae agsHecen Hurley was making cookies, but her heart really wasn't in the process today. She had rolled the dough out and had opened the drawer for the cookie cutter, when she saw the cutouts for the horse, the rabbit, the chicken, and the gingerbread man. These were the ones Bobby liked to use when he helped with the cookies, but, she thought, it would look silly for me to make animal cookies for just John and me. With a deep sigh, she put them back in the drawer and cut the dough in regular round cookies. Bobby had always been on hand for cookie making. No matter what else he was doing, he would come running at cookie baking time. "Is it time to cut them out, Mama?" he would ask a dozen times during the process. "Can I put the raisin eyes in now?" With regret in her heart and neat to tears, she remembered the times when she had thought she was just too busy to be bothered with him. She was always in such a hurry, it seemed, and it took time to let him cut the animals out and put eyes in. Too busy? What had she been thinking of? Actually, it took only 4 minute or two to cut them out, and she remembered how happy he was to help her, and how proud he was when he showed the baked cookies to his father and said, "Look, Daddy, look, I made them all myself." Later, when she roused herself, she remembered that she had planned to scrub and wax the floors today. 'They really didn't need cleaning, though, she thought, as she looked the floors over. No one is here to track mud or dirt in. Track mud in - It had been about a month ago, and she had just finished 'scrubbing and waxing the oor when she heard the screen door slam and Bobby came running in. "Mama, Mama, do you know what?" he began excitedly. "Bobby," she scolded. "How many times must I tell you not to slam that screen door? And you've tracked mud all over my clean floor." For the first time she noticed his clothes, and continued in a tone of exasperation. "And what have you been doing to get your clothes so dirty? Why, you've even torn your shirt."'. It wasn't until then that she noticed his face. He looked so crestfallen, and there was a hurt expression in his eyes. In a subdued voice she then asked, "What was it you wanted to tell me?" 213 MARCH 1964 Although he told her about the bird building a nest in the tree by the garage, and that he had to crawl on a ledge to see better, the joy of sharing his secret with her had been ruined by her words. Almost as if her mother were in the room and repeating the words again, she heard her say, "You know, Helen, a mud-tracked floor can be wiped clean again. A torn shirt can be mended, but it isn't easy to put the joy back on the face of a child, or take the hurt look out of his eyes when harsh words have been spoken." How right her mother had been. Why, oh, why was I always so quick to scold him? She thought. 'The mud on the floor really didn't matter compared to the experience he had had in watching the bird gather string, leaves, twigs, and scraps of cloth and painstakingly carry each piece to the tree to make her nest. In his haste to get on the ledge before the bird returned from one of her trips, he had torn his shirt. She recalled how excited and how anxious he had been to share his experience with her, then she had spoiled it all by her hastily spoken words. If only a mother could always have a second chance to right things, to do better, to be more patient. She would have to get hold of herself, too, she thought, before John got home. As she moved the playbox in Bobby's room to start the vacuuming, a blue canvas shoe fell out. Although Bobby had outgrown the shoes, for some reason he had insisted on keeping them. 214 Grandfather Parker had made the box for him and had painted it a bright red. Because Bobby liked his grandfather's tool box so well, the playbox had been made as nearly like the tool box as possible — even to the lock and key that seemed to fascinate Bobby. "Now, Bobby," grandfather had said when he brought the box to him one week end, "you can keep all your toys in this box. Your room will look neat and clean, if you put the toys back in the box after you get through playing with them. How do you think my saws and hammers would look if I left them out of the toolbox? And another thing, I'd never know where to find them when I needed them for a job." Ar first Bobby had remembered every night to put all the toys in the box but, as the newness wore away, he sometimes forgot. She had even scolded him for that, Helen remembered, forgetting that he was just a little boy without a grownup's sense of responsibility. Now, as she stood holding the shoe in her hand, she noticed that the shoelace was missing. Shoelaces.... How many times a day had Bobby come running in the house saying, "Mama, do you know what?" And her answer had usually been, and with a lump in her throat she remembered saying, "Bobby, will you please tie up those shoelaces? You are forever tripping over them." Although he stopped telling the story he had been so excited about and patiently stooped to tie his shoe- laces, by the time he 'had finished, the smile had left his face, the shining light had left his eyes, and the excitement had faded from his voice, when he told the important bit of news. With her eyes full of fresh tears, Helen put the shoe back in the playbox. Later, when she was _ peeling potatoes in preparation for dinner, she heard a car come in the driveway. Surely it wasn't John already. She hurried to the window to see. It was her parents. They hadn't planned to come until Saturday, and it was only Wednesday. Now, she thought, I wonder what is wrong, and she had a moment of panic. Nothing seemed to be wrong, because they were both smiling. Her father brought the car to a stop near the kitchen door. Between her parents, sitting tall in the seat and grinning from ear to ear, was Bobby. He looked different, and it took Helen a few seconds to figure out why he looked different — and then she knew! He had lost his two front teeth. 'They had been loose when he left with his grandparents for a two weeks' visit with them on their farm. Helen was so anxious to get to Bobby that she was startled when She heard the screen door slam behind her as she ran from the house. Bobby, with that unruly lock of hair that stuck straight up in the air in spite of many combings and water, grinned a toothless smile at his mother and then stumbled over his grandmother's feet in his haste to get to her. As he started toward her he tripped and nearly fell over his untied shoelaces. -SECOND CHANCE Habit was strong, and Helen caught herself almost saying, "Bobby, will you please tie your shoelaces?" But she checked her words in time. All out of breath with the excitement and importance of it all, Bobby said, "Mama, do you know what?" And then he paused for the magic words from her. "No, what?" "IT rode the pony all by myself. Grandpa let me. I found a nest of baby kittens, and they were so little they' didn't even have their eyes open. And that banty hen, she has ten chickens. If I hold my hand like this," and he cupped his hand, "they fit in just right, and they are so little and fluffy and cute." Helen's mother was trying to catch her eye to explain a few things. Over Bobby's head she was saying in snatches of conversation, ",.. Came a few days earlier — a little homesick we thought — he's young — first time away for so long — did very well, we thought." Bobby had finished his recital and then shouted, "Daddy!"' Sure enough, John was just turning the corner. Helen cried in dismay, "The dinner — I haven't even put the potatoes on." 'The two women hurried into the house. Grandpa and Bobby stood in the driveway waiting for John, and Helen heard Bobby say, "Daddy, do you know what?" She stood by the window just a second longer, looking at the three of them. Yes, Helen thought, I am one of the fortunate ones. I have a second chance. 215 What does your | SPEECH |:**. Reveal? | "= Myrtle Henderson, B. S. Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College Sux shore done a good job on my hair!" How often we have heard such glaring mistakes! The one who makes them is saying that she is a careless person, or that she has forgotten what she has learned in schaol, or that she has never learned the simple rules of correct English. Such mistakes are as noticeable as walking down the street with one red and one green shoe. How much better to have said, "She surely did a good job on my hair" or better, "She surely did my hair well." Some grammatical errors are more common in specific localities, and others are more universal, but all grammatical mistakes exemplify misunderstanding or lack of knowledge of the rules of correct speech. With a little effort we can overcome our habits of uncultured speech, and not only make a better impression on our friends and the people we meet, but also, we can set a correct example for our children to follow. Obviously, one article cannot give all the rules of correct grammar in one easy lesson, but it can point out some of the most frequent offenders, and help to establish a basis for further study and practice. Some of the common errors are made in the use of the verbs saw and seen and did and done. The verbs seen and done are parts of teams and work in double harness with their helpers have, has, or had. Saw and did can work alone. Here is a chart which, if studied carefully and used for frequent reference, will prove helpful. Correct Incorrect I saw it myself. I seen it myself. She saw the show. She seen the show. They saw the girl. They seen the girl. I have seen the violet show. I have saw the violet show. They had seen the hole before the They had saw the hole before the boy fell in. Boy fell in. I did the washing. I done the washing. She did the dishes. She done the dishes. They have done it many times. They have did it many times. 216 WHAT DOES YOUR SPEECH REVEAL? Some people are a bit confused about which pronoun to use in the nominative and the objective case. It should be remembered that I and we are the first person pronouns to be used in the nominative case as subjects of the verb, while the pronouns me and us are the first person pronouns to be used as objects of verbs and prepositions. These sentences will illustrate: 1. It is for us Latter-day Saints to remember the Sabbath Day. Us is the object of the preposition for. Never say, "It is for we." We must be used as a subject. 2. This doctrine is subscribed to by us Mormons. Never "by we Mormons." Us is the object of the preposition by. Mormons is simply a noun used in apposition to us. 3. This message applies to you and me. You and me are objects of the preposition to. Never use "to you and I." 4. We Latter-day Saints, must live our religion. We is the subject of the verb must live. Latter-day Saints is the noun in apposition to the subject We. We should never say, "Us Latter-day Saints must live our religion." 5- You and J will go. You and I are the subjects of the verb will go. Sometimes we hear the expression, "Us girls are having a party." See how it would sound if we leave "girls" out and say, "Us are having a party." It is wrong because Us is the objective form and is being used as the subject of the sentence. Try saying, "We girls are having a party." Girls could be left out and we could still make sense. Why? Because We is the nominative case and is used as the subject of the sentence. Sometimes we hear "Him and me will do that job." Can you see now what is wrong? Of course! Him and me are both in the objective case and should not be used as subjects of the sentence. "He and I will do the job," would be correct. Wé often get a scrambling of pronouns and cases by saying, "I and her helped the old lady." I in the nominative case and her in the objective — both used as the subject of the verb helped. Instead of "her," use the single nominative form "she." I indicates the speaker and should be placed last as: "She and I helped the old lady." Two other pronouns which often give trouble are the nominative and objective forms of the interrogatives who and whom. Who should be used as the subject of the verb because it is in the nominative case. Whom should be used as the object of a verb or a preposition. 'These sentences will illustrate: 1. Who was there?, 2. Whom did you see? 217 MARCH 1964 In the first sentence who is the subject of. The verb was, but in the second sentence, you is the subject of the verb did see, and whom is the object of the verb did see. That will be clear if we change the sentence around and say, "You did see whom?" Many people have difficulty in discovering the word which is the subject of a sentence when the subject is modified by a prepositional phrase. It is well to remember that the verb goes with the subject and is not supposed to be concerned with the prepositional phrase. 'The subjects are italicized and singular. Correct Incorrect The package of papers was lost. The package of papers were lost. One of the boys was tate. One of the boys were late. Each of the flowers was in full Each of the flowers were in full bloom. Bloom. The collection of rocks was lost. The collection of rocks were lost. There are college graduates whose childhood training in incorrect grammar still remains to plague them. They may know the rules, but years of incorrect usage cause wrong words to slip out before there is time to think. Repetition of the correct grammar, over and over, until it is fixed in the mind and rolls off the tongue without thinking, is the best way to overcome daily errors in speech. If parents would take care to use correct English at home, they would simplify their children's problem in learning grammar at school and at home. It can be done. I was thrilled to hear one evening a little threeyear-old say to his mother, "To whom did you give it, mamma?" Both parents were careful to use correct English, and expected it of their children. Fawn at the Pool. Thelma J. Lund —— >) Quiet brown eyes reflect the pool of shadow-brown water surfaced with cool lily blossoms and leaves afloat—,, serene and silent, dappled, remote. RR. Gentile brown eyes reflect the trust; a. That shimmering wraith, an image in rust, os Ju will suddenly vanish from the brink é | of the shadow-brown pool when she wades to drink. 218 Gast Your bread upon the waters Olive Sharp Foor a long time I have been wanting to write an article — '"'Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days." As a small girl out in Wyoming, I attended Sunday School in a little log cabin. I loved the music and the singing, also the small cards that were given each child on Sunday. They were not much larger than a large postage stamp, but the messages those cards held covered most of the Ten Commandments. At first I did not quite grasp their meanings, but, as I grew older, those messages began to dawn upon me and I could see the ground they covered. We would receive a small card every Sunday, and when we had collected twelve, we would be given a small reward. I am sure the things we commit to memory, while young, stay with us all of our lives, and that is why good deeds should be stamped on our children's memories. Now that I am eighty years old, the blessings I am finding from several sources are coming back to me. Once I helped a niece through high school. Now she is very kind and thoughtful of me, and for Mother's Day sent me a first-class jet ticket from Salt Lake City to San Diego, and return. That is where she is living. Another little English girl I helped, and she helped me with my children, now takes us on nice trips in their car to such places as Los Angeles and Bear Lake. A cousin, now living in Anchorage, whom I helped a little while her children were young and she was having a hard struggle, now is doing well in Alaska. The family have often invited me to spend the summer with them, and she and her husband called the other day in a new car and insisted that I return to Alaska with them. I found out how far it was and that it would take one week to reach their place. Oh, how I would have loved to have gone through those large forests and the wild country, but I was afraid that I was too old, and that I might cause them, and myself trouble, so I did not go. I could tell what a pat on the back, a smile, a word of sympathy mean to old friends, and also to myself. My motto is, "Count that day lost when the low descending sun views from thy hand no worthy action done." Surely, "... As the twig is bent the tree's inclined." If you cast your bread upon the waters, you will find it after many days. Our Chapel I Margaret B. Shomaker a ii Our chapel is the strength of yesterday, | os.: }; S& The experience of today, and On a — The trust for tomorrow. ES It is our edifice of the present waeet—aluitiels) ww For the future— | Te alee F a ie a A beatitude to man = © mele. |. | " "4. 4 f3 14% Ny A covenant with God. 1) > ee 219 soever. In fact, quite the contrary. Selena often excused herself when he appeared, going to the wagon and leaving him and Belle alone. Once Belle chided her for her abruptness toward him. "How do you think Lon feels, Selena, if every time he comes near our wagon, you get up and leave?" "Lon?" asked Selena, and it was plain that the thought had never concerned her. ''How do I know how he feels, and why should I care? Who, in this whole wagon train, cares how I feel?" "We all do, Selena," said Belle gently. "Everyone is concerned."' "So concerned that they sing and dance every night. They don't bother to wonder what it does to anyone else."' "Of course they do, Selena. But you can't expect this entire camp to mourn every step of the way for "Don't you mention his name!" flared Selena. ""You never liked him! Though why you didn't, I've never been able to understand. I don't think you could explain, yourself, what you had against him." Belle opened her mouth to answer, then she stopped. There was no good in adding to the burden her sister was already carrying. She could say nothing that would do any good now, in fact it could not even be proved, and might cause a serious rift between the two of them. THE only favor Selena accepted from Lon during the long journey YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING was his offer to let her ride his horse. She loved horses, any horse. It had been a great disappointment to her when she had learned that Belle had obtained a pair of oxen to pull their wagon. Riding the horse proved to be a welcome change, and several times during an afternoon she rode behind the wagon while Belle and Lon sat together on the wagon seat. "Tt's good to be traveling west with Josiah," said Lon upon one of these occasions. '"We've covered a lot of territory together. Had a right good homestead in Missouri. Best place we ever had. Hearing the gospel really changed our lives. "Tt was a funny thing, too. I knew it was true right off. Josiah took a bit of convincing. He was right in there with the mob for awhile. Right up until Far West. That was more than he could take. "There's not a kinder person to be found than Josiah. Oh, I admit he may have a bit of prejudice against women in general, but he's still one of the finest men I have ever known. He isn't a man to use a lot of words, but something must have happened to turn him against the whole female sex."' Lon jumped to the ground as they approached a deep waddy. He directed the oxen expertly to one side and then the other. The wagon swayed but stayed upright as it came back to a more level piece of land. "Josiah taught me that," he 221 MARCH 1964 said, as he took his place back on the seat beside Belle. "He's a good man with a wagon and can get more miles out of a team of horses in a day than anyone I have ever seen." Belle remembered this when, after a particularly ramy time, Lon rode back to report that their wagon was stuck. '""What we need are your oxen," Lon stated. Belle closed her lips and jumped to the ground to unloose the team from her own wagon. "You can take them, of course. But I insist on driving them to get your load going again." Belle led her oxen toward the wagon ahead. Lon mounted his horse and followed a short distance behind, possibly hoping to avoid the explosion he felt was imminent. "Your oxen! Of all the teams in the wagon train why in thunder did Lon go for yours?" Josiah demanded. "Tt's obvious, isn't it?" answered Belle. "Probably because my oxen are in better condition than any other animals on the trip. You could have kept your horses up better if you had bothered to pull them a little extra grass when the picking in camp proved to be a little sparse," said Belle. "Pull grass for them! Nobody but a female would think of anything like that. Should I chew it for them, too?" "If you like," said Belle amiably. "The poor things probably don't get it chewed up as well as an ox does, since they don't 222 chew their cud. You might be able to help quite a lot that b way. JosIAH snorted. Lon rode up and drew his horse to a stop. "I'm not having any female pull our outfit out of the mud, Lon. I'll stay here all summer first." Lon was feeling the humor of the situation, and his face twitched but he did not smile. "T'll drive old Buck and Barney, Belle. And I promise not to touch them with a whip. How about it?" "Of course, Lon. I'll take your horse and wait back at my wagon. I guess you'll have to pull him out, though I wouldn't mind a bit if he did just what he said —stayed here stuck in the mud all summer." Belle had only reached her own wagon when she turned to see Lon coming on the run. "You'll have to drive them, Belle. They won't budge for me. I think they are waiting for the sound of your voice. Josiah's trying now, but I don't expect him to have much luck." "Josiah! Lon, you promised!" "I know I did, Belle, but I couldn't make them move and you know how he is with animals. He thought maybe he could persuade them." "A couple of balky cows, if I ever saw any," cried Josiah as they ran up. "That's all they are. I wouidn't have a pair of oxen. You couldn't give them to me. I should think you'd have got a team of good horses before start- ing out on a journey like this." "You did," said Belle calmly, "and look at the condition they're in. You might be glad some of us didn't have enough money to buy horses, before you get to the Valley." Belle patted the animals, speaking softly to them all the while, then, "Haw!" she cried. "Haw!" The oxen swung a little to the left. The chain tightened and the wagon rolled forward slowly, surely out of the mud onto firm ground. JOSIAH stood by in amazement, his mouth opened, a strange, new look of admiration in his eyes. Lon, watching, caught the look at once. He was equally as surprised as Josiah; Lon to see what was happening to his friend, and Josiah, to see a woman handle a team of oxen with such skill. "Come on, Josiah," said Lon. "The least you can do now is to help the lady put the oxen back on her own outfit. Get the chain unfastened."' Josiah came to with a start, only to see that Belle had already removed the pin and was carrying the chain as she turned the oxen toward the rear of the train. "T can drive back just as easily ' as forward," she said. After she had gone a few steps _she turned and looked over her - shoulder. "Sometimes it happens that ' women aren't too much of a drag on a trip like this." The sarcasm was wasted on Josiah. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "Lon!" he cried. "Did you see that? Did you see what she did?" "Easy, Josiah, easy," said Lon. "That's a female you're talking about." "But she doesn't act like a female. Why, she drove those oxen just like a man!"' Lon decided to let things rest, realizing that in Josiah's present state of mind, it was useless to remind him that neither of the two men present had been able to move the oxen one inch. WHENEVER the scouts sent word back that Indians were in the nearby area Selena became almost petrified with fear. From the very beginning of the trip this was the thing she had dreaded most, more than the hot, scorching sun, or the wet, sodden plodding through mud, or the constant tiredness from endless walking. "Belle!" protested Selena, after watching her sister walk among some of the red visitors who came, one day, into camp. "How can you get near them? They're dirty. How do you know what disease you might pick up?" Belle laughed. "They interest me, Selena. Did you see their moccasins? I've never seen such beautiful bead work. How I would love to have a pair." "You mean you would actually wear them!" In camp meeting that night Lon gave orders to everyone in their fifty to treat the Indians kindly. "Our Church has little trouble 223 MARCH 1964 with them," he said, "and we don't want to give them any chance for action against us. They have traded with so many wagon trains passing through that you will find they have developed a taste for some of the white man's food, especially flour. While we can't spare much, in most instances just a little will satisfy them and prevent trouble. Use your best judgment in maintaining peaceful associations with them upon their occasional visits." A few days later another group of Indians came to the camp. Selena's heart beat fast as she saw Belle leading an Indian squaw toward their wagon. Where could she go? What could she do? She looked about the crowded interior of the wagon for somewhere to hide. Unpver the bed! It was the only possibility. It was a good thing the situation had not been reversed, for, Belle could never have squeezed her large frame in out of sight among the boxes and bags stored there. There was not a breath of air moving and Selena felt she would suffocate before Belle found whatever she was after and her trading with the Indian woman was over. At last, when she was certain that Belle was alone, Selena crawled out. "Selena! Look at these moccasins! I've never wanted anything so much. Aren't they perfect?" Belle ran her fingers lightly over 224 the bright, beaded toes. Then she looked up at Selena whose eyes were on them as though they were something repulsive. "Stop blaming the Indians for the sickness at Winter Quarters. They live up to the best they know — better than most of us. You know what the scripture says about them. Here, let me read it to you." B ELLE reached her Book of Mormon from under her pillow, turned quickly to Alma and read: For it is because of the traditions of their fathers that caused them to remain in their state of ignorance; therefore the Lord will be merciful unto them and prolong their existence in the land. And at some period of time they will be brought to believe in his word, and to know of the incorrectness of the traditions of their fathers. BrLLE stopped, searching the passages for a moment. "That's true enough. Their existence has certainly been prolonged, and if the Lord is going to be merciful to them, it might prove to be a good idea if we show them a little mercy ourselves. That wasn't what I wanted to read to you, though. Oh, yes. Here it is: Nevertheless I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable for them in the day of judgment than for you, if ye remain in your sins. "You see, Selena? For your own sake, you cannot afford this unreasonable fear of the Indians." Selena had no answer. She knew Belle spoke the truth, yet how could she make her understand? It had been a strange sickness that could take a strong man almost overnight in Winter Quarters. If it hadn't come from the Indians, it certainly seemed different from anything she had 'encountered before, and it had. Taken away her very reason for living. Later, when Selena returned to the wagon to get the kettle for the evening meal, Belle sat on the bed, her toes in one of the moccasins, and her face a mask of despair. This was a most unusual sight. Selena hurried to her sister's side. "Belle!" she cried. ''Whatever is the matter? Are you in pain?" "The moccasins!" moaned Belle. '"'They're too little. I can hardly get my big toe in them." "Oh! Is that all! You gave me such a fright!" "Ts that all! Here I go and trade off some of our precious flour and my old wrapper as well, and all I get is a pair of moccasins that I can't even get on." THEN Belle's face brightened as a thought came to her. "Selena! You could wear them. They might even be a little too big for you! Here. They're yours." Selena drew back. "I appreciate it, Belle. I know you mean it to be a kindness, but I couldn't take them, really." "You're being foolish, Selena. These are the most beautiful _ moccasins I have ever seen. Here. _ Try them." "And so they are," said Lon, YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING coming up unexpectedly. "Let me see them. I might take you up on that." Laughing, he took the moccasins from Belle's outstretched hand. "Whose are they?" he asked as they looked at the fine piece of handwork. "Yours, if you want them," said Belle. "I traded for them, but I can't begin to wear them, and Selena won't even try. Do you think you could wear them, Lon?" "They look a little small for me, I'm afraid, though I'd like to have them, but I can't be selfish. I know someone who really needs these right now. Josiah." "Josiah! I'm not about to give these moccasins to him. He'd find something wrong with them to come and tell me about, if he had to wait until they wore out and then complain about that. No, I'll keep them myself first." "His horse stepped on his toe last night, Belle. He can't get his boot on for a few days. He'd appreciate these. He's spent a lot of time among the Indians and has worn moccasins a lot. You could really help him out, Belle. Do it for the good of the wagon train, if not for Josiah. He can't help much in his stocking feet." Belle looked at the moccasins for a long moment. Then she handed them to Lon. "Here they are, Lon. He can have them, but I'm not taking them to him," said Belle. "That's another thing," said Lon, raising his hand against 225 MARCH 1964 taking the moccasins. "If I go back to our camp with these, he'll think I talked you out of them. I'd rather you took them, if not you, then Selena." SELENA looked from one to the other. There was no way out. She would not let Lon know how she dreaded picking them up. Belle knew, of course, and Selena saw a look of admiration on her sister's face as she took the moccasins from her. Lon and Josiah's wagon was about two-thirds of the way around the circle from theirs. Selena did not cut through the center where the animals were grazing, but walked around the outside of the ring of wagons. She found Josiah seated on the wagon tongue soaking his foot in a bucket of hot water. "I'm sorry to hear about your foot," said Selena, as she came near. "My own fault," said Josiah. "My off horse always paws with his front feet when I hook him up. I should have had sense enough to get out of the way." "T brought you these moccasins," said Selena, holding them out to him. "They'll be much softer than your boot until your foot is better." "Lon sent you with these, didn't he? He's always trying to take care of me. Well, you can tell him.." "No," interrupted Selena. ''Not Lon. My sister, Belle." "Belle!" Josiah was on his feet. The bucket of water went over. 226 Selena managed to get away just in time to avoid its pouring over her shoes. For the moment his sore foot was forgotten. "You really mean it? Belle sent these moccasins?" "She did," said the bewildered Selena, "but why all the excitement? What's so important about her sending them?" "'Maybe nothing. Maybe everything. Selena, hurry along back and if you see Lon, tell him I'd like to see him. Right suddenlike."' "He's acting sort of crazy," she told Lon as she returned to her own camp. ''You'd better go right away."' Lon was off at a run. Supposing the injured foot had turned to blood poisoning. Suppose.... But he needn't have worried. When he reached his own wagon, Josiah was already wearing the moccasins, shaving carefully as he squinted into a piece of broken mirror he had propped up against the side of the wagon. As he heard Lon's footsteps, Josiah turned to face him, one side of his face still unshaven. "Well!" said Lon, '"'why the middle of the week clean-up? What's going on?" "Lon!" cried Josiah. "Lon! Do you suppose she knows?" "Knows? Who? Knows what?" asked Lon. "Belle. Do you think she might have heard that among certain Indian tribes the squaw can choose her husband by sending a pair of moccasins to the man she decides to marry?" (To be continued) Charlotte (Lottie) Hammer Singley, Bountiful, Utah, finds much pleasure in oil painting. Her favorite subjects are mountains, such as the majestic Tetons of Wyoming (top, center), winter scenes, and autumn splendor in forest country. Shown in the photograph above are paintings of the Joseph Smith Home and the Sacred Grove. Mrs. Singley, a woman of many talents, is also a gifted musician, and has been a choir member in several wards and stakes, as well as a member of the Ogden Tabernacle Choir. Her poetry, short stories, and articles have appeared in Church and national publications. She is skilled in many kinds » of handwork — knitting, embroidery, crocheting. With her husband, she has filled two missions — to the Cumorah Farm and the Joseph Smith home. In Relief Society work she has been a member of stake boards and ward presidencies and has been class leader in theology and literature, and discussion ' leader at work meeting, and has been a visiting teacher for many years. Temple work and genealogical research are very dear to her, and she is devoted to her five children and seventeen grandchildren. 227 Canadian Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music For Mission-Wide Annual Convention, September 14, 1963 Seated at the left, front row, left to right: First Counselor Elva M. Adamson; President Caroline L. Pitcher; Second Counselor Jane Morrow. Second row, center, in dark dress: Donna Harker, director of the chorus; at the right, fifth row: Sharon Holmes, accompanist. Sister Pitcher reports: "Eighty-six Singing Mothers comprised the chorus, rendering 'Why Singing Mothers Sing' and 'How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings.' The theme of the convention — 'The Latter-day Saint Home Has Its Pattern in the Heavens' — was presented by Sister Pitcher. 'As a Light Shining' — reflecting the true spirit of visiting teaching — 'Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do' — was presented by the London District sisters with accompanying musical numbers beautifully rendered. "Recognition was given to sisters achieving 100% visiting teaching and honorable mention to other deserving sisters. A spirit of love and good fellowship prevailed throughout the day. 'Every sister a missionary' was again particularly stressed. There was an outstanding display of handicraft from each of the five districts. Many of the sisters' first efforts at quilting were in evidence. Following a delicious luncheon, departmental sessions convened. Over two hundred were in attendance, some traveling as far as 600 miles to attend. All five of the district presidents and a majority of the branch presidents gave the sisters their support in the venture." 228 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.. La ow — = x ' if 4 Mei AR 4. ROR San Antonio (Texas) Stake Relief Society Visiting Teachers Honored At Convention, June 15, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Angela Elizondo; Otilia Zeigler; Lucia Bremer; Margarita Favella; Maria Vasquez. Back row, standing, left to right: Hattie Bitter; Fannie Ekstrom; Thilla Greathouse; Louise Turley; Carmen Martinez. Kathryn K. Willis, former President, San Antonio Stake Relief Society, reports that there was an excellent attendance at the convention and a greater interest in visiting teaching was aroused. "Sister Lucia Bremer was especially honored as a member of the first Relief Society in San Antonio. The first meeting of the society there was held in her home. Sister Bremer and the other sisters in the picture were presented with a beautiful carnation corsage by Gladys Bremer, stake Relief Society board member, for their faithful teaching for over twenty. Years. Each visiting teacher present received a 'Pattern for Living' made by the stake board members. "The play 'May We Come In?' written by Ivy Huish Jones, was presented in a very instructive and entertaining manner. The play depicted the importance of visiting teaching and the need of having love in our hearts when we make our visits. Talks were given by three of the sisters on various phases of visiting teaching. A social hour and refreshments were enjoyed by all." Delpha Jeffers is the new president of San Antonio Stake Relief Society. 229 MARCH 1964 Pasadena Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Nell Ellsworth, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of Pasadena Stake have for their chorister Ovena Mayo, and the accompanists are Della Cox, at the piano, and Lydia Smith, at the organ. This group sings regularly for two stake conferences a year, at special leadership meetings, and in wards on special occasions." Irish Mission Relief Society Enjoys Unified Mission Bazaar June 15, 1963 Sandra M. Covey, President, Irish Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society women representing twenty branches in Ireland sponsored a unified mission bazaar at Redhill, the beautiful mission home in Belfast. The fete was graciously opened by Mr. Leslie Stuart, official royal photographer for Northern Ireland. A fancy dress parade for the children, a vocal and instrumental quartet, a portrait stall featuring Mr. Charles Sinclair, a local cartoonist; and boat rides on Redhill Lake were especially popular. A balloon man clown and lovely hankie girl delighted the children, and families tested 'skill and luck in the various game booths. Items on sale, the results of many months of work, were displayed in gaily decorated booths and stalls, including handicrafts, children's toys, fish pond, wonderful home bakery, flower and vegetable stall, "white elephant," apron, children's clothing, homemade sweets, cosmetics, refreshments, and visual aids for families and teachers. "Each Relief Society had heavy assignments and solicited help from inactive and nonmember women. Some organizations doubled their membership, and many women joined the Church. We were thrilled with the $1,000 raised, though the fete was closed early by heavy rain. Of special interest was a seventy-five page bazaar idea and pattern book which we had printed, containing hundreds of patterns and ideas. These were sold to Relief Societies in Europe and women's clubs in Ireland." Ashley Stake (Utah) Closing Social and Inter-Faith Barbecue Dinner May 1963 Mazie S. Christensen, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports this unusually successful occasion: "The Ashley Stake Relief Society held a closing social in the form of an inter-faith barbecue dinner, served on the patio of the Ashley-Uintah Stake center. The picture shows members of the stake board, assisted by Bishop Ben Lindsay, as they barbecue chicken for the affair. An interesting display of articles made by Relief Society members during the past year was exhibited in the recreation room." 230 Le ull. A MARCH 1964 North Sanpete Stake (Utah), Mount Pleasant First Ward Annual Day March 18, 1963 Left to right: Lavon McArthur, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth Fowles, Second Counselor; Nellie McAllister, President; Elnora Larsen, First Counselogr. Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Stake -Relief Society, reports: "The Mount Pleasant First Ward Relief Society celebrated the founding of the organization by having a luncheon and program with an international theme. At one end of the hall a large map of the world. Was placed in the middle of flags representing various countries, and ribbons of the Relief Society colors indicated the location of the temples, and pictures of the temples were placed at one end of the ribbons. "The last verse of the song 'Come Unto Jesus' was printed on a large placard and placed at one side. These decorations tied in with the decorations used on the tables. A collection of dolls, six to twelve inches high, from many countries, along with flags representing the different nations, were used, centered by a globe of the world, with blue and gold ribbon reaching out in many directions. Gumdrops were used to hold small flags from many countries. These flags matched flags used on the invitations, which were taken to all. The sisters of the ward. They were asked to bring their invitations for use in finding their seats. "The menu also carried out the same theme: Swiss ham Sanpete carrots English rolls Scalloped Irish potatoes Chinese cabbage with French dressing Hawaiian dessert "The program also followed the theme: Xylophone solo — medley of Scotch music Cello solo — Hawaiian music Swiss yodeling Danish song (in Danish) Origin and stories about St. Patrick's Day by a sister from Ireland Vocal solo — "God Bless America' "The history of the ward Relief Society, from the time of its beginning in 1961, was related. Sixty sisters were present." Uruguayan Mission, Carrasco Branch Pioneer Day Celebration, 1963 Helen Fyans, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, reports that the unique "Pioneer Day" celebration held in the Carrasco Branch was typical of many similar celebrations held throughout the mission: "Organized under the direction of the Relief Society of each branch, the celebrations included a presentation of slides and narration about the Latter-day Saint pioneers, typical music, and square dancing. Decorations included wagon wheels, handcarts, and a big fire. "In some areas the construction program was aided through the contribution of a 'Kilo' by each person attending the celebration. The 'Kilos' are used to sustain the Church building missionaries. The program was planned by the Relief Society Mission Board, headed by Sister Carmen C. De Galli. Other members of the board are Luz Oliva de Rodal, Maria Luisa DiPierro, Maria Elida Wins de Otero, and Alba Molinari LaBuonora. The celebrations attracted large attendance of both members and nonmembers." 232 Rau SORELY Wi) ar Come urio Jesus from every nation ©. _ From every land and isle of the seas - Unto the et and lows uy it in Stations MARCH 1964 Rarotongan Mission (Cook Islands), Avarua Branch Work Meeting August 13, 1963 Front row, left to right: Metua Jones; Tauri Taroro; Tuo Ngati; Pauline Mitchel. Back row, left to right: Alice Vahua; Della Howard; Ngametira Tuaputa; Inez S. Moody, President, Rarotongan Mission Relief Society; Rongo Kea; Ina Taroro; Rau Tai; Ngaupoko Papera; Teei Ngatokoa; Metua Kura. Sister Moody reports that the women in the picture are making Pareu skirts for the Polynesian Village opening at Laie. Around the table is a sample of the skirts. In the background are Taewaiwai quilts made by the sisters. "They have seventy-six skirts to make. It is quite a difficult, long process to prepare the Kiriau (grass), for they have to cut the young trees from the hills and take them to the beach, skin the outer layer of bark, and bury the limbs in the sea under heavy rocks, where the sea keeps them wet. They stay there for from five to ten days, then they are taken out of the water, and the 'inner bark is taken off. This is the bark they use for the skirts. It has to dry thoroughly for a day or two, then long strips are cut and tied onto heavier bark to make the skirt. It takes about twenty stalks to make one skirt. After the skirts are made, the seeds and beads and shells must be gathered and cleaned to decorate the waistbands of the skirts. If there is to be any coloring in the skirt, then the material must be dyed before the skirt is made. To make seventy-six is a long, tedious job." 234 Afton Brown a hole at the end. As I tenderly picked it up, dusted it off, and placed it on a packing box, my eyes filled with tears. I could hardly see my fingers as they fumbled with the lock, and only after several clumsy attempts was I able to open the case. There, protected by a worn, faded, red velvet wrapper, was my father's violin, the treasured possession that had been one of his great loves — second only to his family. As I lifted the instrument and plucked the untuned strings with my thumb, I could see the slight dullness of the fingerboard; a dullness caused by countless journeys of sensitive, though calloused, fingers up and down the strings searching for the clear, swect, melodious tones pleasant to hear. Gay tunes, sad tunes, ballads, jigs, classics, and hymns — cach had at one time or another revealed the mood of the maestro. I then ran my fingertips caressingly over the worn chin rest that had time and time again nestled a silken black beard: a beard which had framed a smiling mouth, enClear true tones of former, more youthful years. Over and Over again, the campaign waged, but finally, with a sigh of defeat, the grand old man was forced to succumb 235 MARCH 1964 = a ee ce eee ee ee ee ee ee a ee Se eS ee Ge Se DE a i ms mms ms i ee ye ee ee ss Se ST A a S See Ce a ey aoe BEAUTIFUL SACRED MUSIC wi FOR THREE PART WOMEN'S CHORUSES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD | GO W Schumann.20 GOD IS LOVE -Shelley.20 HEAVENS ARE TELLING Haydn.25 IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMMANDMENTS Madsen'§.25 IN THY FORM 00 Madsen'.20 LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FORWOY ----4Stephens.20 LO, MY SHEPHERD IS DIVINE veel. Haydn =.22 LORD'S PRAYER Gates LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE Madsen'.20 MY REDEEMER LIVES _ Gates.20 O DAY OF REST AND GLADNESS Schumann.20 OMNIPOTENCE._ Schubert 20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music above. OJ Charge \ i |! Indicated { { \ [1 Money Enclosed Name onan eececcceeeeccececeneccececceccecssceeneeee i 1 1 i 1 t i! L] On Approval i i \ id °o — = SS Oe ee oes ee ee eee ee — a a ee ee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee ee 15 E. Ist South | ~ Salt Lake City 11, Utah & WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. MEXICO — MARCH and JUNE, 1964 EUROPE — EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII — MONTHLY TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Feather Grief Ida Elaine James Your shattered sphere made whole With a bit of glue,! Played the goddess-role To little you. You with the simple goal Of toys mended, | cannot help but wonder Of the long days when, Small panic of tears and thunder Stilled — | can't restore again The heart asunder — Such joys ended. And no one sees my own tear shed For the hours, days, years That you may go uncomforted With undried tears Be | alive or dead. So if | hold you overlong While you strain away Recovering your April-song Forgetful in play, My feather-grief is for that day — My love-word said. Pathway Catherine B. Bowles We walk the path of life but once As we journey down the way; We do not pass this way again As we travel day by day. Shall we plant seeds of happiness Or strew the path with flowers And sow the seed of gratitude For rich blessings that are ours? Send a song along the highway, Push a stone from off the road, Make a beaten path for others, Help them carry a heavy load. If we have helped, in some small way, To give another a brighter day, Then life has not been lived in vain; Blessings will come back again. The fragrance of a life well spent Smooths the pathway we have trod That will bring us richest blessings In our pathway back to God. GOLD WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places EDALLI | (does not include pageant). <i 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. Ee 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. —<—oAll tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. > A wonderful new Esther James Tours way to live 460 7th Avenue UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. _~ Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 deoler C8 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 237 MARCH 1964 Painting With Glass (Continued from page 202) Throughout the project, the interest of neighbors and friends has been aroused, and their curiosity has led them to the homes where the pictures were being assembled. The pleasant hours with new friends was an unexpected by-product. The heavy work of the project fell on a few, but there were many who enjoyed and benefited from this productive experience. The Happy Ending Such a personal feeling goes into each picture that the sisters regret parting with their creations! However, when a well-known Washington, D. C., Savings and Loan Company offered to display ten pictures in their attractive, busy Connecticut Avenue window, with spotlights on them at night, the "apron strings" were happily cut, and the sisters' "brain children" went on display, with prices ranging from $45 to $175. It is difficult to know which caused the most surprise, the $500 obtained from the immediate sales, or the bewilderment skeptical husbands registered when the pictures sold! This was one project where the makers didn't have to buy back their own productions. Currently, the same Loan Company has asked for more pictures, and they have arranged a display in three of their busy locations. One display is just two blocks from the White House. The inquiries about the pictures bring them sufficient business so that they do not charge a commission for selling. College Park Relief Society women had worked diligently to contribute to the building and furnishing of their new chapel, and for the room furnishings, kitchen equipment, and stainless steel service for 200. The money from the sale of the pictures gave the sisters the thrill of having cash for a luxury. It was invested in silver serving pieces for refreshment tables, including silver punch bowls and assorted sizes of silver trays. They wisely spent their money for luxuries only after the necessities and needs of the operating budget had been met. As with all creative work, glass picture-making requires time and thought. To the neophyte, it may be work, but with practice and experience it becomes a fascinating art — rewarding as a means of expression and in the creation of something lovely, unique, and of value in the home or on the market. The bonus surprise of attracting new friends to Relief Society is a priceless reward of love in action. 238 Gilean Douglas And now | go from water — from the sound Which has caressed me through the nights and days. My feet will turn to distant, arid ways — And sometimes stand quite still on desert ground Because the wind through dusty palms has sighed Like sleepy water on an ebbing tide. Gratify that wistful yearning this April, and return for Conference VisitOrs- 2 °visis to "anerica's rivest ice CREAM STORE" love, meme" ce Crear Open until: THE INDUSTRY'S SUPREME ACHIEVEMENT Closed Midnight 850 East 21st South St. Sundays BEAUTIFUL LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL WORRY FREE HANDY li DURABLE HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC (New low fares) EUROPE 21 Day Excursion Tours (Save 30%) Now Booking for THE HOLY LAND including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel Turkey, Greece and Italy (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 4th) HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July '64 including World's Fair in New York MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. (Bonded) (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 Salt Lake City "There is no substitute for experience" A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles _.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 4101. —=_ PESERET [PEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 239 Orlhdy Congratulations Ninety-nine Mrs. GRACE PEckHam Batrs Brandenton, Florida Mrs. ELLEN King Lyman Logandale, N evada Mps. Neti Rostron HH, Ninety-eight Mrs. Exizapery TAYLOR McEntire Mrs. Mary Park - Rexburg, Idaho Brockpanx Norrr Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Salt Lake City, Utah American Fork, Utah Mrs. Lena a OLSEN MRS. Menissa OPENSHAW Brimwatz ogan, Mesa, Arizona inety-f Ninety — Mrs. MINNiIg F. Lurz Mrs FLORENCE Dix Purpy eton, Idaho Ogden, Utah Mrs. Harrier Eminy MALIN Pack Ninety-three acramento, California Mrs Marir JORGENSEN CARLING Miss ELLEN p She ey, Idah Tooele, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Ey OVARD CHagp Salt Lak City, Utah Mrs. Ip, Mag ALLEMAN TAYLOR " ane City, Uta Salt Lake City Mrs. Saran WaHLstrom Rmer Mrs. Mary J, FARNEY BELrrp Salt Lake City Utah Ogden, sen, Utah Mrs. CAROLINE Brown TOLson Ninety-one Hartsville, South Carolina Mrs. Hupa GarRFr SALISBURY Mrs. Daisy DEEN Ba Salt Lake City, Utah RGER LARson Idaho Falls, Idaho Thanks for These Caroline Eyring Miner SATISFYING READING These choice volumes will inspire and comfort you — worthy additions to any home or ward library! IP GUIDE TO A HAPPY MARRIAGE by Mark E. Petersen Elder Petersen's liberal use of true-life case illustrations provides helpful direction and insight for young people ontop aan, marriage. Expert counsel is given relating to such matters as—the dangers of early teenae dating, problems of early marriages, the importance sharing mutual interests, completing one's education before marriage, facin heal problems, the significance of personality —— sex, and family attitudes, and aly finance. $2.95 2. LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Volume II by Roy W. Doxey An amazing and enlightening volume that is a worthy successor to the very popular Vol. I. Elder Doxey is Associate Professor of Religion and Chairman of the Department of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Religious Instruction at Brigham Young University. Fascinating insight into latter-day prophecy. $3.95 Deseret Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ¢. ISRRR ECTS ESTCHSRRSRSEREEEHEER ESSER Se | Beaesenueaene Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 94119 I would like to receive book(s) number - - for which I enclose (check, cash, money order) the full cost $._ 2 222.-2-..-2------! Residents of Utah add 3/2% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah We surely never dreamed that in nine short
months this tragedy would come to us!
Only those who have experienced such a
sudden tragedy can know the great shock it
brings and the empty, lonely feeling it leaves
within a home. And only those who have had
the security that a good insurance gives can
answer a small daughter who asks, "Mamma,
what will we do for money now Daddy's gone?"
I am thankful that my husband had the
love and foresight to provide this financial
security for us.
Our thanks to you, Keith, as our agent, for
selling us this insurance, and to Beneficial Life
Insurance Company for their prompt payment
of our claim. Sincerely,
Mrs. N. A. Roberts Beneficial Life Insurance
