Sound of Storm and Praise aT The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: lWustrations: Margery S. Stewart The sky flaked into wings And cried through gulls' feathers. In me, sound of storm and praise For all this orange, gold, silver, and ochre Flaming and framing the winter weathers, As if something over the clouds must out, Must be glorious and golden despite Dull and drab of quick done afternoons. The sun's galleon fought horizon, But fell at last over the sea edge, light Streaked up with her passing to torch clouds, To touch all hungers in me so they stood Up, tongues trying to taste light and sea And the furious burning of hours. A: ship gathered grays and like wood Dared the still smoldering path.! Ran before night could smother Splendor with chill and dark, But on a hilltop was halted in flight To be burned again, be seared by other Widenesses, oh, small of me, littleness, flit, Ephemeral speck of me in creation. How shalt thou my King hear me calling Above this vast evening's falling. Gulls in Flight, Photograph by Luoma Studios Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Representation of Relief Society Visiting Teachers in Pioneer Times Transparency by J. M. Heslop Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Spon Na and Ser May | tell you. How much we enjoy the wonderful, truly inspired, and 'uplifting Magazine. Since being away from the States (two years now), my appreciation for the Magazine has doubled. 1 find much wisdom in its pages; and it makes me proud to be a member of the Church and to serve with my -husband and children out here so many hundreds of miles away from our home in a valley of the mountains. It gives a different sense of proportion to all things. Mrs. D'On Hansen Yarraville, Victoria Australia Last December 1963 | began receiving our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It was a Christmas gift from my sister Mrs. Ray E. Harris of Midvale, Utah.- My husband, who was a nonmember of the Church began reading it and now he loves the Magazine, also. Last April he and our thirteen-year-old daughter were baptized into our wonderful Church, and we have never been happier. My wonderful husband has bought a new bookcase for holding all his Church books. Mrs. Bernard O. Walker Napa, California | am a convert to the Church and have been a member for a year now. | enjoy participating in Relief Society very much, and! Really anticipate the arrival of the Magazine. It has done so much to strengthen my testimony. | know that | will build a better home because of the inspiration of the Magazine. Karen V. Morris Big Spring, Texas | cannot begin to tell you the many happy hours |! Have spent reading and learning all that my Relief Society Magazine means to me. It teaches all of us to have a better understanding and brings us closer to the kingdom of God. Phoebe Farnsworth Pocatello,. Idaho 802 The Relief Society Magazines have been my friends for many years. They keep me from feeling so alone. Each one fills my needs and gives me strength. -They have contributed to my spiritual growth and have heiped me to be a better mother and homemaker. Mrs. Julia Walker Mesquite, Nevada While visiting. Teaching four months ago, we were welcomed into the home of a sweet young Japanese mother who, at that time, was not interested in the Church or the message. My companion and | subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine for her as a gift. Stake missionaries and other visiting teachers kept in touch. - She and two young sons -have since been baptized into the Church. The mother is now serving as second counselor in her ward Relief Society, an energetic, devoted member, whose influence is being felt for good in her own family —- her widowed mother and parentsin-law, and her sisters. We are truly grateful for the excellent and welcome guest each month — the Magazine. Genevieve Lindsay Moreland, Idaho Not long ago | received a card from my home town in Idaho that the sisters there were sending me a Relief Society Magazine each month. They began in January, and with each new Magazine | look forward to its interesting a new investigator. In our proselyting activities, many people have been interested through this inspiring ladies' Magazine. Elder Alan Rich Crane New Zealand Mission | really enjoy the Magazine and find myself anxiously awaiting its arrival each month. The stories and poems hold great interest for me, as | have wanted to try my hand at writing for sometime. Mrs. Linda Joan Simons Spring Lake, North Carolina The Relief Society Magazine 

Volume 51 November 1964 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 804 Home, the Child Training Center Belle S. Spafford 810 "Take My Yoke Upon You" Marianne C. Sharp 813 Happiness Louise W. Madsen 815 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 823 Our Roots Go Deep' Frances C. Yost 840 The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 2 Mabel Harmer General Features 802 From Near and Far 826 Editorial: Gratitude Marianne C. Sharp 828 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Lessons on Talking Book Records Again Available for the Sightless Picture Kits for Theology Lessons Available 829 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 847 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 880 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 831 Special Rolls for Christmas Melba Christensen 834 A Welcome Christmas Gift Vilate R. McAllister 836 Colorful Felt Pictures June F. Krambule 838 "Little Acts of Kindness and of Love" Elsie C. Carroll 839 Crocheting Is a Fine Art for Callie Haggard Lessons for February 855 Theology — The Revelation on Priesthood Roy W. Doxey 861 Visiting Teacher Message — ''Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions' Christine H. Robinson 863 Work Meeting — Teaching the Gospel in the Home — Introduction Alberta H. Christensen 867 Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part I Robert K. Thomas 871 Social Science — Priesthood Function and the Community Ariel S. Ballif 9 Poetry 801 Sound of Storm and Praise — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart Snow to Snow, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 809; Signature of Faith, by Enola Chamberlin, 812; Grace for God's Bounty, by Ethel Jacobson, 830; Time, by Evelyn Fijeldsted, 846; Undefeated, by Ruth H. Chadwick, 866; Our Garden Gate, by Rowena Jensen Bills, 875; First Grand Addition, by Leora Larsen, 876; Hold Back This Autumn, by Linnie F. Robinson, 876; Brief Hour, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 876; Another Season, by Christie Lund Coles, 878; Design, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 879. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918 Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

HOME The Child Training Center President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual * General Conference, September 30, 1964] "THE wisdom of the ages" is a phrase frequently used, implying that the experiences of eons of time have proved certain statements to be true and certain courses of action to be judicious, prudent, sensible, and good. In the history of the world, perhaps none other, save the Master himself, is so well known for his wisdom as is King Solomon who reigned over ancient Israel. Scripture records that in Gibeon the Lord appeared in a dream by night to Solomon who had succeeded King David as ruler of Israel, and God said, "Ask what I shall give thee?'"' and Solomon replied: Give thy servant therefore an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad.... And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but has asked for thyself under- 804 standing to discern judgment; Behold I have done according to thy word: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there hath been none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee (I Kings 3:5, 9-12). The importance of an understanding heart for those who would govern others, and the wise sayings of King Solomon constitute an important part of the wisdom of the ages. Among the wisdom words of Solomon worthy of contemplation by mothers of the Church today are_ these: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). Today social life has _ become complex and social ills pronounced. Mothers sometimes wonder if indeed it is possible to rear the child so as to assure the righteousness of the man of maturity. Ever before us are unsettling, even frightening reports and ac- counts of temptations and existing evils which beset the paths of boys and girls. All too many children are being caught in the web of destruction. In view of existing conditions, social studies and the development of social welfare programs are rapidly increasing, with emphasis being placed on remedial measures and social case work techniques to deal effectively with problems. The remedial measures must be administered, in large measure, by social welfare institutions. Valuable as these may be in the treatment process when a child has fallen by the wayside, is not the better approach the preventive measure through early training in the home by wise and righteous parents? Church leaders have _ long taught us that the character of our homes and the teaching we give our little ones play a determining role in the character and behavior of the adolescent child and, later, in the life of the child grown to manhood or womanhood. From time to time we hear an echo of this from those whom the world regards as authorities. In the Deseret News of August 19 there appeared a report of a paper presented at the First International Congress of Social Psychiatry in which Dr. Eleanor Glueck of Harvard Law School, an eminent criminologist, said the mother plays a determining role in whether a child is to become a delinquent and later, perhaps, a criminal. Dr. Glueck declared the three vital factors which determine the mother's influence on the child are the amount of supervision given, the HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER amount of discipline she is able to infuse, and the amount of cohesion she is able to bring into existence in the family. Tue Church gives us the broader view, the greater concept of our responsibility to our children. It gives to us first an understanding of what was meant by Solomon when he said, "Train up a child in the way he should go." The "way he should go" is made unmistakably clear. The Church further gives us specific counsel as to how to guide him along the way through our day-by-day home teachings; then it undergirds us with marvelous Priesthood quorum and auxiliary programs. While, through unfortunate circumstances or perhaps unjudicious action on the part of parents, a child may fail to receive the firm and wise direction required to avoid the pitfalls of life, I believe our Church has a vast majority of competent, successful mothers, and our young people, generally speaking, merit our confidence. At times, even one who strays from sound parental teachings returns in later life repentant because of those teachings. Only recently a son who had been carefully taught by righteous parents, now eightyfour years of age, told me a fascinating story of his repentance. Said he, 'During the days of my recalcitrant youth and young manhood, my parental teachings remained with me as a restraining influence and held the line to some extent. I could never entirely rid myself of them, and, finally, they led me back to right living and happiness." 805 NOVEMBER 1964 It seems human nature to talk much of the one who goes astray and call little attention to the countless numbers who follow the path of right. President McKay referred to this and, at the same time, expressed his confidence in the youth of the Church as follows: So while we solicitously call attention to the tragedies in the stream of human life, let us not be unmindful of the much greater group who move steadily and successfully along, avoiding the sandbars and rapids of sinful indulgence and spiritual decay, whose noble lives confirm and increase confidence in the growing generation. As we seek the lost sheep, let us be appreciative of the 'ninety and nine" that are safe in the fold. (Motherhood — A Partnership With God, compiled by Harold Lundstrom, pp. 4-5). I recall attending a dinner not long ago with a group of nonLatter-day Saint women who were active in civic and social welfare programs. Considerable concern over the growing antisocial behavior of youth was expressed, The group seemed in general agreement as to the need to strengthen the American home aS a means of improving conditions. At length a woman seated next to me directed two pertinent questions to me. She inquired, (1) "Do you have any juvenile delinquency among the youth of your Church, and if so, do you have any statistics comparing the percentage of delinquents among you with the national percentage?" (2) "Also, you have extremely high standards of home and family life, as well as a rigid set of behavior disciplines. How effective are these as controls in the lives of your young people?" 806 I had no figures I could give her. I could not in honesty say we had no delinquency, but I felt confident in saying our standards and teachings brought forth good fruit. Without hesitancy I said I felt they produced an abundant harvest of upright, law-abiding men and women. I was mindful of the more than 11,000 young missionaries now serving the Lord in the mission field; I thought of the tens of thousands in years past who have done so. There came to my mind an impressive sight I had just witnessed of thousands of young men and women crowding into the Tabernacle for the Mutual Improvement Association conference — chosen to be leaders because of their worthiness in this marvelous youth program. I thought of the many young men who are in bishoprics and stake presidencies; I thought of one young man, the excellence of whose home training I knew so well, recently being chosen of the Lord through his prophet to be an apostle — a witness for Christ to the world. I thought of others similarly taught and _ similarly called who are today a power for righteousness among the nations of the earth. I thought of the endless number of intelligent young women of faith and testimony presiding over Relief Societies throughout the Church. A visit to a campus branch Relief Society is a heartening and inspiring experience. Yes, I thought of a conversation I had had in one of the large eastern cities with a little twelveyear-old scout who had _ been carefully trained by a righteous and beautiful mother who had ing. With face aglow, he told me the group to which he belonge had been singled out by 4 evidence of Church teachings, i in large and recorded by "Wherefore, b shall know them" i¢ is not necessary to read it. For those ynfamihar with this scripture, L commend 4 to you as goo Latter-day Saints have always 4 marrage was HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER have their grasP the possibility of that form 1 1 ill contribute more to their happiness 17 this world 1 and happiworld (Motherhood —A Partnership With God, pase 119). F the Restored Gospel as any h I know. We have a Heavenly Father and Mother, the _ And those spirits were created that they might come t earth and receive mortal tabernacles so that in the due time of the Lord we may lay away the mortal taberime we shall reHeavenly Father has provided for us" It is the duty of parents to teach children the saving principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ so tha NOVEMBER 1964 will know why they are to be baptized and that they may be impressed in their hearts with a desire to continue to keep the commandments of God after they are baptized, that they may come back into his presence (Ibid., page 148). Discipline is embodied in the gospel of Christ. It is fundamental to good child rearing, but must be wisely exercised. Brigham Young early taught Latter-day Saint parents wise principles of child government: "Bring up your children in love," said President Young, "'... Study their dispositions and their temperaments, and deal with them accordingly, never allowing yourself to correct them in the heat of passion" (Ibid., page 23). Elder Orson Pratt enlarges, as follows, upon this counsel, which unfortunately is still needed among us in some instances: Do not correct your children in anger. Be deliberate and calm in your counsels and reproofs, but at the same time use earnestness and decision. Do not find fault with every trifling error you may see, for this will discourage your family, and they will begin to think it is impossible to please you; and after a while they will become indifferent as to whether they please you or not. Do not be so stern in your family government as to render yourself an object of fear and dread (Ibid., page 29). Elder Harold B. Lee emphasizes the need for the spiritual touch: "The maintenance of spiritual contacts, the exercise of family prayers, the constant attention to Church duties, have all been some of the things that have helped these [our L. D. S.] homes to be successful' (Ibid., page 159). The Church has always taught 808 us the importance of learning, and since pioneer days has provided schools. Parents have been urged to encourage their children to seek education. This seems particularly important in today's competitive world. President John Taylor spoke of the need to educate our children, to afford them opportunities for instruction and learning, as follows: We do not want a posterity to grow up that will be ignorant but one that will be intelligent and wise, possessing literary and scientific attainments, and a knowledge of everything that is good, praiseworthy, intellectual and beneficial to the world. (Ibid., page 26). It is noteworthy that today, when individual liberty is threatened in so many ways, President McKay places upon the home responsibility for teaching this divine principle. Says President McKay: The home is the best place in the world to teach the highest ideal in the social and political life of man; namely, perfect liberty of action so long as you do not trespass upon the rights and privileges of another (Jbid., page 6). A host of our leaders have given the same counsel as to the most effective means of teaching our children. Elder Howard Hunter puts it in these words: '"'We should be good examples to our children, for the greatest teaching is done by way of example This is the great challenge of parenthood" (Jbid., page 51). Latter-day Saints have often referred to themselves as a peculiar people, accepting the definition of peculiar not as queer but as distinctive. Elder Richard L, Evans declared: ord describes a generation that h culiar in purity, in honor, In righteousness as Indicated ln both Old estament texts (lbid.,; May take comfort in the fact that this is It is ° mothers, I am Particularly grateful for the li bless our understanding Snow to Snow Eva Willes Wangsgaara Autumn thinned Out leaf by leaf. Winter's falling flake by flake, Gold to &reen to 80ld again Buried on the crysta} Plain. 809 "Take My Yoke Upon You' Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General. Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September. 30, 1964] As I was reading in Matthew recently, I was impressed by some verses which I feel sure most of us could repeat from memory: Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek, and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, den is light. And my burAs I read this comforting invitation | wondered, what is the yoke of the Savior for me, a Latter-day Saint woman, which we all should take Upon us; and what makes the burden light? As I thought of the yoke of the Savior, I decided that for a married worean. It woukd first of ali, be striving for perfection as a wife and mother. No woman can find rest in her soul if she is not daily seeking to become better in these two most important responsibilities. The burdens of life are ever pressing upon us, and if we do not keep our eyes single to these two fundamental duties, our souls are 810 rf without rest, unrighteous burdens crush out the joy, and leave boredom, frustrations, and unhappiness in its place. To bea joyfal wile wa must honor the Priesthood im our homes and support our husbands in righteous endeavors. We must keep: our homes: in order and make them havens of peace and love. To be a joyful mother we must devote ourselves to our children; teach them to respect the Priest-. Hood, be obedient to their tothers, and do the part of a rather in training them in Hight and truth. As I considered further the yoke of the Savior for a weoinan, I naturally considered activides to which I have devoted my time. I poneered om the time whey I have spent in Relief Soctetv work. Is that a part of the yoke? I quickly decided that Relief Society offers the opportunity to help a woman take upen herself the yoke of the Savior and find that his burden is light. What does Relief Society give to a woman to bring rest unto her soul? ould hardly sep them. 2 woman 45 he light Swiittly picture wed throug and truth she can gain personally my min th teachings 4 from devotlo to Relief Society trainin 1 ecelve Reliet This is true becau Relief S°- Society time frst ciety was di vinely stablished DY oined b fore married. Reour Heavenly ather tor ractice } those t uths of whic oke of the Savio she stands in 3 The assistan we receive 38 As wives 4 others 11 ou manifold First, we becom stu homes We as ind viduals 1 dents of the sc ptures 0 an adult meeting p blems, seeking level, through lesso tten through PY ye olutions: © ecially fo omen. J yst during When we become mem s of Rethe years § nc ame im lief Society; however!; learn Presidency we have studied slow and are traine midst 9 ly an thorou hiy the life © our sister ye a basis © Christ, The Boo ¢ Mormon, comparison snstance, We and, now, he Doctrine and Covemay feel n burdens are nants. Have stu ied, we almost hi avier than we can bear. Have searched the scriptures Then we be cqu snted with we study and discuss SU jects 0 a sister whose burdens are such @ spirit of praye!, nlightenmen that ours assume Jer hue On and understanding well within sister complain © her purdens nition of the Prophet Joseph, which, to us, seem yather paltry: "When you go home, never give And we learn @ lesson — many 4 cross OF unkind word to your lessons — from the associations husbands, but let kindness, charwith our sisters: the burden of ity and love crown yout works has her burde When we ate in Johnny should; ven the mone Relief Society, N° longer are we ey he sks for, an if Mary should Jone in 0 problems — e are be allowed to 8° the party All one W! The sisterh od of the the yndersta ding which comes Church 2 d our outlook 15 proadto us in Relief Society becomes 3 ened part of us to help making our woman is called to serve in the WE learn to serve others and to Sunday School, the Youns Womincrease our talents. Relief 5on's Mut Improvemen Asciety was to act po these words, sociation, OF th primary As as the Prophet Josep nstructed, women, nswer these call "Said Jesus, Ye shall do the wor NOVEMBER 1964 builds and strengthens many facets of our characters. We learn to be obedient to those over us, and learn to give unquestioned loyalty to them. Our own personal wishes are submerged. This engenders unselfishness and trains us in humility. We learn to accept responsibility. We are often asked to undertake a task which we feel is beyond our capabilities; however, we accept the task and, as we accomplish it with the help of the Lord, the yoke becomes easier. We learn to nurse the sick, to comfort the sorrowing, to discern the needs of our sisters. Relief Society provides a great opportunity to increase our faith, and then the further opportunity to prove our faith by our works — to step beyond our own doorsills and emulate the example of the Master who went about doing good. The Savior did not restrict his service to his own loved family members. Remember he asked, '""'Who is my mother? And who are my brethren?" And answered, "'whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother." Can a Latter-day Saint woman take on the yoke of Christ and wilfully ignore and deny the Relief Society? The Savior says, "Learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart." Is there a better way to learn to be meek and lowly than by serving our neighbors as directed by those in authority? Is there a better way to increase our testimonies than by studying in this divine organization whose motto is "Charity Never Faileth''? If we do not have charity, the pure love of Christ, to motivate our thoughts and actions, we are nothing. Shutting ourselves in ivory towers alone to study and learn the scriptures is not taking the yoke of Christ upon us, nor can we love the Savior, pray for the sick and afflicted, and then turn our backs on them. He has said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." As we approach ever nearer the Savior while doing work such as he did, we receive rest unto our souls. As we take upon us his yoke, we find it is easy; the joy of accomplishment, the satisfaction of service, our increasing love for the Savior do make his burden light. May we all live to know the truth of his promise "For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light," I pray. Signature of Faith Enola Chamberlin Across immensity of sky, No footprint trail to show, No slim-bent tree, no wide-lined map, Migrating bird wings go. Only the signature of faith Edging the high-still dawn, Blazing across the midnight sky Is there to lead them on. 812 Happiness Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964] HlapPINEss is the purpose and design of existence. To gain happiness and to contribute to the happiness of others are foremost goals of living. A happy and contented life has been called "the eternal quest of mankind." To be happy is the ultimate goal of all ambition, all endeavors, all hopes and plans. True happiness stems from a quality within ourselves — a quality that is both innate and acquired. Happiness comes from within and is mostly simple goodness and a clear conscience. No one can be happy without some feeling of satisfaction with himself. In a searching self-scrutiny one usually finds much to be done to bring about this satisfaction with oneself. Self-discipline is a necessary ingredient. As Abraham Lincoln once said, "Most folks are about as happy as they make up their minds to be." Almost every human being can be happier than he is. A more optimistic. Outlook, greater altruism, vigorous social service, facing life's realities and difficulties with firmness, and having a zest for living, characterize the happy person. A sense of humor is necessary. It is sometimes hard 'to realize that, for the most part, one makes his own happiness. While happiness comes from within ourselves its focus must needs be outside ourselves. We must seek it unselfishly, finding ways to bring joy to others. Loving service brings a wealth of joy in return. This we know to be true, for experience has shown us that if we have hurt someone that hurt clouds the sun for us until it is remedied. Contentment is one phase of happiness, contentment with life as it is lived. "To be content with what we possess is the greatest and most secure of riches" (Cicero). This does not deny ambition, preparing for a better life, desiring more of the riches of this world. This does not mean we have to stay at the same level. Rather, contentment is the joy of being happy with what we have along the way. Many young couples with the husband still in 813 NOVEMBER 1964 school live in rather meager circumstances, yet live in deep contentment. They are preparing for more plenteous living but are happy along the way. There are always those who believe that happiness can be bought; that money, possessions, things to be owned, places to go automatically bring happiness. This is seldom true. "Money may buy the husk of things, but not the kernel. It brings you food but not appetite, medicine but not health, acquaintances but not friends — days of joy but not peace or happiness," according to Henrik Ibsen. Before one sets his heart upon something it would be well to examine how happy they are who already possess it. One definition of happiness for thoughtful examination is: "Thehappiest person is the person who thinks the most _ interesting thoughts." "How essential it is," taught William Lyon Phelps, "to be able to live inside a mind with attractive and interesting pictures on the walls." What a delightful way of reminding us that what we are within may grow more beautiful with the advancing years if we have stored treasures of study, experience, and education in our minds. Nothing exceeds the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking. Work, work that is interesting, work that we love is happiness. No one is happy who does nothing. Idleness is anything but happiness. Few persons realize how much of their happiness is dependent upon their work; good hard work that affords an outlet for all their talents and abilities. Real life is love, laughter, and 814 work. To accomplish, to achieve and exceed our goal — this, too, is happiness. Happiness comes to us in many ways. There are moments of transcending happiness, and many moments of quiet happiness in simple, ordinary things. Someone has said that you should not seek happiness as if it were the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, but among people living a full rewarding life. Each day should bring its own rewards. "Faith is the foundation of all things, including happiness," jis one of President David O. McKay's "Ten Rules to Happiness." With faith nothing is impossible. The peace of mind and serenity of heart that are necessary come through faith in the Lord and understanding and living the gospel. Religious principles are engrained in the hearts of truly happy people. The deepest joys are spiritual in nature. Happiness is love at home. The wealth, fame, power, or riches of the world cannot compare with the joy of love between husband and wife shared and enhanced by loved and loving children. No peace is so sweet, no security so firm, no joy so complete as love at home. This kind of love was with us in our heavenly home before we came to the world and will be with us in our eternal home and family life. True happiness then is love, contentment, self - discipline, work, service, enlightenment, faith, and the blessings of our Heavenly Father. May we all live to experience happiness in its fullest measure. Report and Official President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General ConInstructions PRESIDENT B ELLE S. SPAFFORD DELIVERING REPORT ference, September 30, 1964]: >,, ' —? Seated back of President Spafford, left to right: Sara |. Tanner, wife of President N. Eldon Tanner; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; President Joseph Fielding Smith, Adviser to Relief Society; Jessie E. Smith, wife of President Smith; ida J. Romney, wife of Elder Romney; Elder Marion G. Romney, Adviser to Relief Society. AX regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the General Relief Society Conference is a report of the status of the organization as revealed in the annual report for the previous year, together with new official instructions and a few suggestions from the General Board relative to the conduct of the work of the Society. Figures for 1963 show growth of the organization in both the stakes and missions, and accomplishments reflect good leadership on the part of Relief Society presidents and other officers. ORGANIZATIONS At the close of 1963, there was a total of 389 stake Relief Societies, an increase of thirty-eight over 1962. There was a total of seventy-four mission Relief Societies, an increase of five over the previous year. There were eight new mission district Relief Societies created, making a total of 362. 815 NOVEMBER 1964 Since January 1964, eleven new stakes have been created and two new missions, making a present total of 400 stakes and seventy-six missions, which for the most part, are represented here today. At the close of 1963 there was a total of 6,353 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase of 362. MEMBERSHIP At the close of 1963 there was an enrollment of 262,002 women, an increase of 13,836 — of whom approximately 3,000 were nonLatter-day Saints. It is recognized that this substantial membership increase has been the result of intensive effort, wisely directed by Relief Society presidents. Relief Society membership is so vital to Latter-day Saint women that presidents are urged to con- 'tinue to be aware of the importance of enlisting as members all Latter-day Saint women within the respective wards, and of bringing into activity the sisters who, for one reason or another, have become inactive. Women, generally speaking, are anxious to contribute their talents and skills to worthwhile programs, if they feel they are genuinely needed. Such contributions from nonmembers or inactive sisters should be invited. They often result in women becoming active members. The work meeting, the Singing Mothers choruses, bazaars, social activities offer excellent opportunities for such contributions. The compassionate services ofttimes require sisters with special skills and aptitudes. Nonmember or inactive sisters may be enlisted for these 816 services. 'T'wo-session Relief Societies, for which instructions are available at the General Board offices, have been found helpful in some wards in increasing membership, particularly where there are a number of working women. Well-conducted nurseries make possible the enrollment and attendance of mothers with young children who otherwise might feel they could not affiliate with Relief Society. As an aid to Relief Society in conducting good nursery programs, the General Board now has available for purchase at the General Board Office a nursery kit which includes a booklet entitled "Our Relief Society Nursery — Book II," and also a book and cut-outs for a one-yearprogram unit entitled 'Living in Jesus' Day." The cost of the kit is $2.25. The Home Teaching Program of the Church provides a valuable new avenue for enlisting women as active members of Relief Society. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents acquaint themselves through their bishops with procedures in making use of this resource. ATTENDANCE Attendance increases are gratifying. During 1963 there was in excess of 7,000 more women present at the regular weekly meetings than during the previous year. EDUCATION Figures show that last year 22,182 class leaders brought spiritual and intellectual development to the Society's 262,002 members. Courses of study were well received and met the interests and needs of the sisters. The theology course for 1964- 65 is a continuation of the study of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with Section 76 through 87. The Doctrine and Covenants represents the revelations of the Lord to us in this dispensation, and the sisters have a responsibility to themselves and their families to be familiar with this volume of scripture. The visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," from the sections to be studied in theology, present, emphasize, and illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the conduct of a Latter-day Saint life. The literature course for 1964- 65 is entitled, "The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature." The Relief Society General Board has provided for use in the literature course, for the two years ahead, a textbook entitled "Out of the Best Books," compiled and edited by Dr. Bruce B. Clark, currently Chairman of the Department of English at Brigham Young University, with a chapter written by Robert K. Thomas, a fellow English teacher with Dr. Clark. The textbook may be _ purchased from the Deseret Book Company at the nominal price of $2.95 per copy. Remittance must accompany order. As you know, each Society is authorized to purchase from its funds a copy of the textbook for the use of the class leader. The General Board, however, suggests the desirability of class members as well as class leaders owning their own copies REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS of this text. Not only will this make the lesson discussion more interesting and beneficial, but the book will prove a valuable addition to the home library. The social science course, "Divine Law and Church Government" is concluded during the forthcoming season. The following interesting comment on the course "Divine Law and Church Government" was recently made to me by the president of an overseas stake: "A number of problems formerly encountered with officers who were new in the Church seem to have cleared away as we have studied the lessons on Church Government." NEW COORDINATED COURSE OF STUDY A special announcement relative to a new series of lessons designed to help mothers support their husbands in teaching the gospel in the home, will entail some modification in plans for the work meeting discussions for 1964-65, as well as modifications in a few procedures presently being followed. It is the desire of Church leaders to make a concentrated effort to strengthen parents in teaching the gospel in the homes. In harmony with recommendations from the Church Correlation Committee, a series of twelve lessons for use in Relief Society, beginning in January 1965, have been prepared to coordinate with a series of lessons to be used by the Melchizedek Priesthood. In order to accommodate this course, the following procedures' will be followed: (1) Work meeting discussions for 817 NOVEMBER 1964 October, November, December 1964, will be presented as announced in the June Magazine. The last five of this series of discussions will be reserved for use later. (2) In lieu of these five discussions, planned for January through May 1965, the new coordinated lessons will be taught in the work meeting, the first of which will be published in the November Magazine. The comprehensiveness of these new lessons makes it seem advisable to allow thirty minutes for their presentation in the work meeting rather than the twenty minutes recommended for the present discussions; (3) Beginning in October 1965, the new coordinated lessons will become the social science course and will be presented by the social science class leader October through May, at the regular social science meeting. During the summer months, they will be presented by the social science class leader in the summer' work meeting, in a thirty minute period. As you know, no lesson is planned for the fourth week in December. It will be necessary, therefore, to reverse the order of the social science and literature meetings beginning October 1965, in order to accommodate the twelve lessons planned for the coordinated social science course. Only seven lessons will be planned for literature for the 1965-66 year. The new coordinated lessons will be under the direction of the education counselor. It is recommended that the sisters who teach the coordinated lessons in the work meeting meet in the social science department at the 818 leadership meeting January through April 1965, and that a portion of the time be used to assist these class leaders. In other words, the stake social science class leader will assist ward class leaders in both the course on Divine Law and Church Government and on the new coordinated lessons. LESSONS FOR INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES In order to be more helpful to the sisters of the Indian Relief Societies, a lesson manual for the use of these Societies is being issued by the General Board and is available at the General Board office, price $1.25 per copy. The manual contains three sets of lessons as follows: Theology — eight lessons from The Book of Mormon Literature — eight lessons on Latter-day Saint Church History Social Science — seven lessons on The Essentials for Happy Family Living A set of fourteen pictures; a map for use in the Church history course; and a chart dealing with The Book of Mormon plates suitable to augment the Indian lessons, cost $2.75 plus postage, are available at the Deseret Book Company. Stakes and missions having Indian Relief Societies are urged to encourage their use of these lessons. They should purchase the manual and the visual aids and make regular use of these materials. Some of the Indian sisters may desire to purchase the manual for themselves. A sufficient number has been prepared to allow for this. Indian Relief Societies will use the new coordinated lessons be- ginning in 1965, following the plan as outlined above. NO HANDWORK DURING LESSON PRESENTATIONS A question which has persisted through the years is as follows: May the members do handwork during the presentation of the lessons? The General Board in no way alters the position taken on this matter as early as 1940, which is as follows: The sisters should not engage in sewing or any type of handwork in any Relief Society meeting except the work meeting, which is primarily for these activities. To engage in handwork during the presentation of a lesson divides the attention of the class member, it is not conducive to her active participation in the lesson, since she is less inclined to raise her hand, set aside her handwork, and stand to make her contribution. It is often distracting to a class leader or neighboring class member and carries with it an element of discourtesy. WORK MEETING The work meeting, second to the theology meeting in attendance, was unusually successful in terms of interesting women in Relief Society, and in training them in the homemaking arts and skills. The sisters completed a total of 1,054,894 articles. Of this number, 687,091 were sewed articles, including quilts, clothing, and household furnishings; and 367,803 were handicraft articles. New and better methods of home management and better methods of performing REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS homemaking tasks were learned. The ideals of homemaking embodied in Latter-day Saint teachings were discussed. It is felt that this meeting is highly productive in helping the sisters to maintain homes in keeping with Latter-day Saint standards of order, cleanliness, thrift, and spiritual strength. It is noted that there is marked improvement in the work meetings where there is planning in advance for the twelve monthly meetings; however, appropriate activities for summer meetings still need consideration in some instances. Activities should be suited to the membership as a whole; financial costs, either to the organization or to the individual members, should be carefully weighed, and _ programs should be in harmony with the general purposes and character of the work meeting as outlined by the General Board. (The new coordinated lessons will require that at least a portion of the time be a formal meeting. ) As an aid to work meeting leaders, the General Board is issuing a new booklet entitled, "Work Four Seasons to Fill the Measure of the Year." A limited supply is now ready for purchase at the library counter on the second floor of the Relief Society Building at a cost of $1.25 per copy. It will be advantageous for work meeting leaders planning to attend the work meeting department of this conference to have this booklet in their hands during the meeting. We are sorry that the cost of issuing this booklet, as well as the nursery booklet and kit, do not permit us to -distribute a free copy of 819 NOVEMBER 1964 either of these booklets to each stake and mission. Following this conference, a larger supply of the work meeting booklet will be ready, thus making it available for purchase through the stake or mission for ward and branch work meeting leaders. Requests have recently reached the General Board for directions on how best to handle money for work meeting supplies. Experience has taught us that a careful estimate of costs of materials and supplies for approved work meeting activities should be made. A check signed by the secretarytreasurer and_ the _ president should be issued to the person designated by the president to make the purchases. When purchases are made, a listing of the purchases, together with the sales slips and any unused money should be turned over to the secretary-treasurer who will make the proper entries in the record book. Generally speaking, the General Board discourages charge accounts. A few Relief Societies have inquired as to whether the General Board approves setting up a petty cash fund for the purchase of small items as needed, such as thread, scissors, etc. This is also discouraged since a precise accounting of expenditures of small amounts of Relief Society money is as mandatory as is the accounting of expenditures of larger sums, and it is often difficult to keep track of small amounts. Also, careful advance planning takes into account all such, needs, and purchases are made along with other materials, supplies, and equipment. We call your attention to the Mormon Handicraft Work Meet- 820 ing Supplies Department located at 21 West South Temple. This department is maintained exclusively as an accommodation to Relief Society organizations. It is operated as a wholesale business, thus benefiting the Relief Societies financially as well as making suitable materials conveniently available to them. Since the Supply Department is not a retail business, sales to individuals as such are not allowed. VISITING TEACHING Recognizing the value and importance of visiting teaching in the program of Relief Society, we are deeply grateful for the marked increase in the number of visits and the quality of teaching being done by the Society's 113,680 faithful sisters who month by month, rain or shine, go forth as emissaries of Relief Society to Latter-day Saint homes. There were in excess of 4,300,000 visits made _ during 1963, an increase over the previous year of approximately 200,000. MAGAZINE Highest commendation is due Relief Society Magazine representatives who, encouraged by Relief Society presidents, increased the paid subscriptions by 15,827, making a present paid circulation of 217,397. You will be pleased to know that the circulation for this October will be 223,000. The editorial staff of the Magazine deserves praise for the physical attractiveness of the publication and for the general excellence of Magazine content. MUSIC It is the responsibility of the ward chorister, planning with the organist, to select songs to be sung by the congregation as a part of the regular procedure of the weekly Relief Society meetings. By carefully reading the previews and lessons in all departments and planning together for each Relief Society meeting, and through suggestions received from the stake chorister and organist at the leadership meetings, the ward chorister and organist will be able to choose music that will correlate with the subject to be studied. The message of the lesson to be taught on each of the respective meeting days is enhanced where the congregational songs correlate with the lesson. Where a class leader wishes a special musical number to augment the lesson during its presentation and emphasize its message, she may arrange for such music herself, as she would arrange for any other special feature or teaching aid in connection with the lesson. It is a courtesy, however, for her to acquaint the chorister with her plan. If she wishes to enlist the help of the chorister in obtaining a special musical number, she may do so through authorization of the president. SINGING MOTHERS Singing Mothers activities are proving to be a missionary for Relief Society and the Church and are bringing cultural and spiritual development as well as joy into the lives of participants. Outstanding concerts have been held in many areas. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS At the close of 1963, the Society had approximately 3,000 Singing Mothers choruses with 42,000 sisters participating. COMPASSIONATE SERVICES Compassionate services continue to expand with the growth of Relief Society and the growth of the Church. These services of loving, tender mercy symbolize the heart of Relief Society, enriching the lives of those who serve and blessing those who are served. The following figures are heartening: Iie 1963 crease Days care of the sick 32,666 = 1,934+ Visits to Sick and Homebound 390,566 24,744+ Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services 596,349 98,059-+- NURSING SERVICES There are 3,674 wards and branches maintaining a current list of nurses within their respective areas. The General Board has long emphasized the importance of this, along with the importance of women taking training for the nursing profession. Excellent short-term courses are offered in practical nursing. Courses leading toward a baccalaureate degree are also available. Our own Brigham Young University offers such training. Relief Society would be remiss in meeting its responsibility to the sick if it failed to concern itself with the training of nurses. I call your attenton 821 NOVEMBER 1964 to the article, "Nursing and Nurse Training in Relief Society," by Irene B. Woodford, Relief Society Magazine, September 1964. CHURCH WELFARE PARTICIPATION The sisters continue devoted support of the Church Welfare Program as is evidenced by the following figures: Family Visits Made Increase Under Direction of Bishop 100,969 3,454+ Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects 902,221 7,264+ It is our understanding that some changes are anticipated in designations of members of Relief Society presidencies and also in meetings and procedures as they relate to Relief Society's cooperation with the Church Welfare Program. Such changes will be announced at the proper time by the Church Welfare Committee. We assure the brethren that the full support of Relief Society will be forthcoming as changes are made. INTER-STAKE FUNCTIONS Sisters, we are noting a growing tendency for two or more stakes to join together for a special function, such as a Homemaking Institute, a Magazine Promotion Workshop, or a Class Leaders' Institute. Specialists usually appear on the program and tremendous effort is put forth to assure the success of the undertak- 822 ing. Often considerable costs are involved. The General Board does not endorse such multiple stake activities. Most of the good derived from such activities could be accomplished within the individual stakes and, in most instances, within the framework of the approved and regularly scheduled programs and meetings. It is a convenience to the sisters to have functions within their own wards or stakes and more sisters receive development. Also this is the orderly procedure of the Church. Where deviations from this regulation seem desirable, the matter should be referred to the General Board for approval. EXERCISE OF FRANCHISE One other matter seems appropriate to call to your attention. This is a national election year. Relief Society women of the past worked long and hard to win the right to vote and to hold public office. We urge you to exercise your right of franchise. Be informed on the issues, learn all you can as individuals from reliable sources about the candidates, and vote according to what you believe to be in the best interests of good government. The woman's vote today is an important one — it should be an informed one. CONCLUSION May the choice blessings of the Lord continue with you during 'the forthcoming season as you give humble and inspired leadership to the Relief Societies of your respective stakes and mission districts. a nine a » 4. ' 4 14 14 Yo4 t \,. 3 | a i. J +: Our Roots Go Deep Marion Coombs kissed each loving child and waved them all off to school. Wally had left almost at daylight for the electric shop. He had a television set he had promised to get repaired and delivered by noon, and it was a cantankerous job, he said, which would probably take a lot of time. Marion sat down by the window to watch the children out of sight as they skipped down the street toward school. She needed to give herself a much-needed moment of rest, too. As she glanced out of the window she saw her neighbor, Vera Holly, dressed most becomingly, get into a car at the curb and drive 'off with a strange man. Marion's eyebrows raised slightly and she murmured, "Well, what do you know?" Frances C. Yost Marion mastered her mind and brought it back to her own world and her own problems. Let's see, none of the family will be home for lunch, so she wouldn't have to bother about that. There were the makings of a nice stew in the frig for supper. The family liked stew, but she needed something to glorify it. How about a grapefruit and avocado salad? A strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert would be just super. Marion could almost hear the family's "ah's" of approval at the very sight of a dessert piping hot from the oven, and freezing cold from the frig. She would make two big pies while she was at it, and the family could have seconds all the way around. Marion cleaned up the house in good time, and started making the crust for the pies. But her 823 NOVEMBER 1964 mind wandered back to Vera Holly. Where had she gone? Who was the fellow she had driven off with? "Marion Coombs, will you curb your impulsive thoughts?" she chided. Yet, thinking about the Holly family was part of her living. They had bought these houses side by side before either couple had any children. Marion remembered the day she and Wally had moved in. Vera and Jim had come over to help them with the heavy furniture. They had even set out the trees together. These dear old evergreens, quaking aspen, and silver maple trees now shaded their homes as if they had been planted by Father Adam well almost. As the children came along, they, too, had become fast friends. Many a ball game they had had across the street in the park together. Lately, since young John Holly and Wally J. Were big enough, their fun had included bowling and overnight fishing excursions with their fathers. Marion remembered the day the Holly house had caught on fire. There hadn't been a great deal of damage, and yet the house was smoked up in every room, and Marion had invited the family to come over and sleep and eat at her home until they could renovate and repair the damage. Marion remembered, too, one day when her own little Susie had come up missing. She and Vera trudged every street in the area on foot. How they could have used a car that day! They had finally found little Susie up on Elmer Drive in a swimming pool. It had been Vera Holly 824 who had presence of mind enough to administer artificial respiration and mouth-to-mouth breathing. She owed a lot to Vera Holly. Jim Holly hadn't spent as much time with her and Wally lately as he used to. Well, he hadn't spent as much time with the family either. He was so tied up in his real estate business, which was booming in all directions. Poor, dear, faithful Wally was still plugging away in the electric repair shop on a hit-and-miss salary. But they managed and were happy, and that was what counted most. Yet it was hard to see one's friends who had started out with nothing, just the same as yourselves, to watch them advance and be successful financially. But, Marion told herself, money wasn't everything. She wondered again about Vera Holly, and where she was spending the day. Marion found time to study her literature lesson for Relief Society, and to read the Doctrine and Covenants assignment for the theology lesson. She even pasted pictures in her Book of Remembrance before the children came home from school. At last the clock's hands moved themselves to four-thirty, and the children, one by one, shouted "Mother," as they came in the front door. And in answer to each one she replied sweetly: "Right here, dear." It was nice having the children around her, Marion thought. She liked to hear how Wally J. Was coming with his advanced math, even though she couldn't help him anymore, because he had surpassed her in the field of arithmetic. She liked the recipes which Susie brought home from her home economics classes to try out on the family. She liked the seventh grade science lessons which Dale read aloud to her. Life was good, she had a good family, and she was happy. She knew it was not wise to be concerned about her neighbors so much. She must be able to live her own life, mind her own business. Just then Vera Holly turned in the driveway. She was at the wheel of a new royal blue station wagon. Marion could tell by the big smile on Vera's face that it was her own car, and it was completely paid for. If Vera came over bragging about it, she would.. She would. Marion didn't know what she would do. Probably start crying with envy. "Marion," she said, "get hold of yourself! Why the idea of being jealous because someone gets a new car. Shame! Shame! Shame!" She knew if Vera Holly was in trouble, she would rush over and move heaven and earth to help her. But because she was successful, was getting a few of the nicer things of life, Marion was becoming jealous and wanted to weave a cocoon of protection around herself. Marion looked at the two parfait pies. Vera had been gone all day. She probably was hurrying around to get supper ready for her family. She would no doubt welcome a prepared dessert. Marion ran the comb through her hair, wiped the jealous tears from her eyes, added a bit of lipstick, and slipped out of the door and OUR ROOTS GO DEEP walked over to the Holly residence. She rang the back doorbell. "Oh, Marion, I'm so glad you came over." Vera was busy preparing a quick spaghetti supper and a tossed salad. "I thought you could use this strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert." '"'Marion, you are a treasure. I've just never had such a dear friend as you are. I sure can use the pie. You see, I've been gone all day, and I'm tired. Marion, it's a long story and I'll have to start at the first. Sit down for a bit. "Jim opened up that Windemere building area, and he said that if I wanted to, we could get one of those choice lots and build anew home. We looked at house plans, but you know, Marion, the new modern homes aren't homey and cozy like yours and mine. "Our whole family talked it over, and we took a secret ballot vote. Would you believe it, we all voted to stay right here. The children like their friends here, and their tree house. We planted these dear old trees, you folks and Jim and I, and well, you just can't pull up roots like that. Our roots go deep, Marion. "TI told Jim what I wanted was a car of my own. So that when you and I wanted to go shopping, or take the children on picnics or for a swim we could go. Jim and Wally always have the family cars, and I thought how nice it would be if I could drive you to Relief Society when you have all those visual aids to carry. I thought about the time we hunted for little Susie when she was (Continued on page 879) 825 "samuel Johnson said, ''Gratitude is a fruit of great cultivation": and Aesop wrote ''Gratitude is the sign of noble souls." Latter-day Saints are taught to express gratitude to the Lord many times daily —- in secret prayer, before each meal, in family prayers, and in testimonies before one's fellow men. Gratitude is expressed as the result of the ability to buy a new car, new household appliances, a new home in a new subdivision, new clothes, vacation trips. Gratitude means a pair of shoes for a child, food for a family, money to pay the doctor bill, the light and heat bills, to keep the family car running. Gratitude means a child on a mission, a calling in the Church, the payment of tithes and offerings, service to others, the healing of a loved one. Circumstances under which people live vary widely, but not the necessity of feeling and expressing gratitude for every blessing. There are, however, trials and tribulations, heartaches, sickness, even partings from loved ones. It takes great faith to be grateful for such experiences; the human soul cannot, at times, rise spontaneously in gratitude. Yet one knows that experiences are given as a testing, Volume 51 November 1964 Number 11 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Gratitude and that this life is to prove the individual. As one looks back over a time of dire distress, often the good which emerged can be traced, although at the time it seemed impossible to find it. It may be long afterwards before gratitude fills the soul. The Lord decreed, ''In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."' This may be viewed as a curse — forcing men to work hard, or it may be viewed with gratitude as an opportunity to work. The understanding and attitude of the individual make the difference. A mother may work long hours in homemaking, disciplining children, encouraging them, serving them, cleaning, sewing, cooking, nursing, gardening — at the end of the day, however, her gratitude and satisfaction well up to the Lord for work well done, and the ability to perform the duties which devolve upon her, a sign of a noble soul, according to Aesop. Almost everyone needs practice in cultivating and expressing gratitude, in searching out and acknowledging the good both in tribulations and blessings. As one approaches an attitude of gratitude for all things, one reaches nearer the avowal of the Savior "Not my will, but thine, be done."' —M. C. S. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith 827 Notes to the Field Relief Society Lessons on Talking Book Records Again Available for the Sightless The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department for the Aid of the Sightless has prepared on talking book records the Relief Society Study Courses for October 1964 to May 1965. These courses include theology, the visiting teacher messages, work meeting discussions, literature, and social science. These recordings have been prepared for the use of the blind only and will be sent free to any blind person desiring them. Requests should be sent to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department for the Aid of the Sightless, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84111. Picture Kits for Theology Lessons Available A picture kit for use as a visual aid in presenting the theology lessons for 1964-65 is available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, price $1.00, plus 10c for postage. The kit consists of pictures of the home of John Johnson, Hiram, Ohio; the home of John Tanner, Bolton, New York; Adam-ondi-Ahman; temple lot at Independence, Missouri; the first First Presidency of the Church; the First Presidency 1901- 1910: William W. Phelps; Hyrum Smith; President Joseph Fielding Smith; President David O. McKay. The picture kit prepared for the 1963-64 theology lessons is also available at the Deseret Book Company for the same price. The pictures included in this kit will be found useful also for the continuing lessons of the theology course. The kit contains the following pictures: The Prophet Joseph Smith, Newel K. Whitney, Lorenzo Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Orson Hyde, President Joseph F. Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, and Edward Partridge. 828 Ramona W. Cannon RECENTLY in Bogota, Colombia, South America, your columnist had the pleasure of meeting SENORA INES DE MONTANA of the staff of The Spectator, a daily newspaper with a national circulation. She and her executivehusband had both written for the paper, and when he suddenly died, she felt that she could never write again. ''We always went over each other's work,"' she said, ''and discussed so many things. It was not respectable for girls to go to college, so he was my university."' She finally forced herself back to work and is now reputed ''the best woman journalist in Colombia."' She believes in the power of the press for good, and has been of invaluable help in causes such as the training and employing of the physically handicapped. The _ international organization of Alcoholics Anonymous recently cited her at a public meeting for her help. Mrs. Montana mentioned a visit of hers to Salt Lake City. ''It merits its reputation as the cleanest city in the United States,'' she wrote. In conversation, this warm, charming, courageous woman smiled and said, ''And those Mormons — no coffee, no tea, no tobacco, no liquor!"' NANCY LADY ASTOR, born in Virginia, who became the first woman to sit in Great Britain's Parliament, died in a London suburb, May 2, a few days before her eighty-fifth birthday. Elected to the House of Commons to succeed her husband when he was elevated to the House of Lords, she served for twenty-five years. Her last public appearance was eighteen months ago. Witty and sharp-tongued, Lady Astor fought for many causes, principally women's advancement and everybody's abstinence from liquor. MRS. OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, of Salt Lake City, author of thirty-five published books, and for many years a newspaper woman and writer of magazine articles, has been named Woman of Achievement of the Year by the National Federation of Press Women. MRS. ORA PATE STEWART, author, poet and lecturer, recently won two national awards sponsored by the National League of American Pen Women. One was first prize for her Book of Remembrance in the national genealogy contest of the organization. The other was second prize for her entry, "Moment of Truth,'' in the humorous verse department. MRS. MAUDE B. BURNELL, ninetythree, of Portland, Maine, as chairman of the East Baldwin Branch of the American Red Cross, was the dynamic and successful leader in the 1964 fund campaign, wherein her group raised 200 per cent of its quota. ''Grandma" Burnell has now resigned her position in Red Cross volunteer service, explaining ''My legs just aren't what they used to be." DR. EDITH SANDS heads Long Island University's Business and Financial Department. In preparation for her book How to Select Executive Personnel (Reinholt, New York), she talked and sent questionnaires to eighty-two American business leaders. Only four per cent of the nation's executives are women, though women make up one third of the nation's labor force. The National Manpower Council learned through research that women are as capable as men of high achievements in technical and scientific fields. 829 Melba Christensen BASIC SWEET DOUGH 1 cake compressed yeast 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Milk or % c. Powdered milk plus % Cc. Granulated sugar 1 c. Water % c. Shortening 2 eggs 4 c. (about) enriched flour (sifted) 1. Dissolve yeast in milk which has been scalded and cooled to lukewarm. 2. Add eggs, salt, sugar, shortening and 2 c. Flour; beat until it springs back from spoon, add 1 c. More flour; mix well and turn out on lightly floured board. Knead until smooth and elastic, or until bubbles form on smooth side. 3. Let rise until double in bulk in a greased bowl covered with a damp towel in a warm place (85° to 90°F). Dough can be shaped after one rising or punched down for second rising. 4. Turn out on lightly floured canvas or cloth, and knead in as much of the remaining flour as may seem necessary. Shape into desired roll shapes. 5. Bake rolls without filling at 425°F. For 8-10 minutes. Filled rolls shouid be baked at 375° for 25-30 minutes. FILLING FOR CHRISTMAS TREE Boil together for 1 minute: 2 c. Apples, finely chopped ¥ tsp. Salt 1 c. Raisins, ground ¥% tsp. Cinnamon 1 c. Brown sugar 831 NOVEMBER 1964 1. Roll out % recipe of Basic Sweet Dough which is ready for shaping on lightly floured board or cloth into rectangle about 12 x 16 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet so that the length of dough goes across width of cookie sheet. 2. Brush center of rectangle with melted butter; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Spread center of rectangle with filling. 3. Bring upper corners of dough down to meet the center of the lower edge. You will have "extra" dough at the base of tree. Roll vertical edges of center back and clip rolled edges. Gently stretch tree so that it fills cookie sheet. 4. Trim dough from lower edge saving half for trunk. Roll dough to form trunk. Clip the outside edges of tree with long diagonal cuts. Twist to form branches. 5. Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place until double in size and bake at 375°F. About 20-30 minutes. When baked, frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with cherries, citron, and nuts. FRENCH CHRISTMAS LACE | Make Basic Sweet Dough. Let rise twice and during second rising prepare the filling. FILLING: Boil together for one minute: 2 c. Apples, finely chopped Y% tsp. Salt 1 c. Raisins, ground % tsp. Cinnamon, ground 1 c. Dark brown sugar, firmly packed 1. Cool. Then roll out % of Basic Sweet Dough into 14 x 8 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet. 2. Spread filling down center in strip about 4" wide. At each side of filling make cuts 2" apart, making cuts 2" long into dough. This makes 7 strips on each side. 3. Cross alternate strips across center filled section. On last strips, tuck under and seal. Cover with damp cloth and let rise until double in bulk. Bake 30-35 minutes at 375°F. Frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with Marachino cherries, nuts, and green and red citron. CROWN ROLLS ¥ recipe of Basic Sweet Dough 1 tsp. Cinnamon, ground % c. Melted shortening % c. Nuts, finely chopped % c. Brown sugar, pecan halves firmly packed seedless raisins 1. Use % recipe of Basic Sweet Dough. When dough is double in bulk, punch down. 2. Shape dough into walnut size balls. Dip balls in melted shortening and roll in mixture of brown sugar, cinnamon, and chopped nuts. 832 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT 3. Arrange layer of balls in greased 9" tube pan; sprinkle with pecan halves and raisins. 4. Fill bottom of pan, then add another layer of balls until you have the pan one half full, and sprinkle with more pecan halves. 5. Cover with damp cloth and let rise to rim of pan (angel food cake tin) about 40-50 minutes. 6. Bake at 375°F. Until browned, about 35 minutes. Turn out of pan immediately and cool on cake rack. Serve hot or cold. SWEDISH TEA RING Roll out % recipe of Basic Dough about 16" x 12". Spread with butter, then with citrus filling. Roll up like jelly roll and place on greased cookie sheet in a circle, then cut with scissors and twist. Citrus Filling — Mix together: grated rind of 3 oranges grated rind of one grapefruit 1 c. Granulated sugar CINNAMON ROLLS — BEAR CLAWS — BUTTERFLIES Roll out dough, brush with butter, shake on sugar and cinnamon and a handful of raisins, roll up and seal edges. Butter a string and put under roll, cross, and pull. This cuts without mashing. To make butterflies, cut cinnamon rolls about 2", then take a wooden spoon handle and press center down. Bear claws, cut 3 slits. DATE-NUT FILLING 1-1/3 c. Pitted dates (finely cut) 1/2 c. Water 1/2 c. Granulated sugar 1/3 c. Walnuts, chopped 1. Add water, sugar, and dates; cook over low heat until completely blended and thickened. 2. Add nuts. Cool. Use as spread on rolled dough. GLAZES To glaze the top of breads or rolls, use either the egg white or yolk with a teaspoon of water added. The whole egg may be beaten slightly and used also. Use a pastry brush to apply just before rolls are placed in the oven. SNOWTOP FROSTING Yc. Powdered sugar Y% tsp. Extract 2 tsp. Water Mix into smooth paste. 833 4 A. VWelercome Cohmr1istimas Coitftt Doers it embarrass you to have to dig and delve among the necessities you carry in your purse to find your pen, or your pass, or your address book, while an amused onlooker watches and waits? Then make yourself a "Tydee"' to do away with such embarrassment. For materials, you will need only some smooth cardboard, a small piece of felt yardage, black or a gay color, and sewing thread. First decide on the size that will fit easily into a purse. (About 7x5% inches will fit into most purses, or the Tydee can be made longer and narrower as desired.) Cut a piece of cardboard the desired shape, and try it in the purse. There should be an inch or so space around it, at least. Now lay the cardboard on the felt and cut with pinking shears two pieces (for the back and front of the Tydee) about one-half inch larger than the cardboard. Or you may fold the felt and cut it double, but in this case lay the cardboard even with the folded edge, which will be the bottom. Consider the contents of your purse, plan carefully, and decide what size pocket will fit each item. Allow enough room, so they will not fit too tightly in the pockets. Don't cut separate pockets for each of your trinkets, because you can more easily cut a strip which reaches from side to side, and divide it into pockets, as desired, 834 Vilate R. McAllister by stitching up and down between them. Mark off the width of each pocket and stitch the strip to the Tydee along the lower edge. Then divide into pockets with up and down stitching, being sure to backstitch firmly at the top, so the strip will not come loose. Narrow compartments would accommodate such items as lipstick, chapstick, bobby pins, nail file, etc. A wider strip could be divided to hold address book, pen, pencil, or note pad. A place for a comb can be made by sewing a 1% inch deep strip across the top of the Tydee. On the back of the Tydee other pockets can be _ stitched. Two compartments about the same size will make containers for the driver's license, personal cards, tickets, library cards, glasses, checkbook, or wallet. Decide which articles you need most frequently, because, unless your purse is large, you cannot make enough pockets for everything. After the pocket compartments for both sides have been stitched, sew up the Tydee 4 inch from the edge on three sides, pockets outside, of course. Insert the cardboard you used for measuring as stiffening, and sew the remaining edge. Cardboard may have to be trimmed a little, if you did not leave enough seam allowance. Now fill the pockets, and see THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT \P™% POY WD a a hes ay ay a ee a SUGGESTED DIMENSIONS AND POCKET COMPARTMENTS FOR "TYDEE'' PURSE ORGANIZER 7 x 5% inches how handy it is to have everything in order. You may attach your coin purse to the upper part of your bag lining, or to the Tydee, with a bit of ribbon, so it will be easier to find, and less easy to lose. Your handkerchief and the few other objects left out of the Tydee will not be a problem. If you have more than one purse the size of the Tydee or larger, you can change the Tydee from purse to purse with ease. If you have a purse too shallow for your pen and pencil to stand upright, you can sew strips near the top of your Tydee in a honizontal position, and leave them open at the end. The pen will slide easily into such a pocket, and will not get lost in the bottom of your purse. When you get yourself supplied, remember your friends and relatives who would thank you for such a thoughtful, if inexpensive, gift. 835 Colorful Helt Pictures June F. Krambule For making an unusual and decorative picture, Mrs. John Fishburn of Ogden, Utah, took two pieces of plyboard, one-half yard of burlap, afew feet of screendoor beading, and several small squares of felt, put them together, and the colorful result was a pair of pictures that are something to crow about. The pictures represent weathervane roosters, made for the budget price of about $1.55 and designed to accent the Fishburn's earlyAmerican multi-purpose room. Mrs. Fishburn details the project this way: First secure two 11" by 16" (or any other desired size) pieces of plyboard and burlap. The burlap is stretched tightly across the front of the plyboard and glued securely to the back. The mitered corners may need to be tacked. Next, select in dimensions needed for the size and number of pictures you are making, about six squares of felt found in most department and fabric stores. These should include black felt for the weathervane, red or orange for the rooster's comb, and a variety of yellow, green, and brown shades that blend together. These, of course, may be varied to suit your own decorating color scheme. 836 To trace the patterns directly from the design given here, would make a very small rooster. However, it is not a difficult process, using this design as a guide, to outline and make your own pattern of each separate piece, keeping in mind the proportions represented in the illustration. Each separate piece of the pattern, when outlined to your satisfaction, can then be traced on a fairly heavy paper. When each piece is numbered correctly, the patterns are ready to be transferred to the felt for the cutting process. Pin the pattern securely on the felt and cut out the felt accordingly with very sharp scissors. Glue the felt pieces to the burlap in the order numbered. Dotted lines indicate sections of the pattern covered by pieces placed on later. Letters suggest the colors that may be used, and the numbers indicate the sequence in which the pieces of felt are glued on the burlap. Narrow' screendoor beading which may be found at almost any building supply store is carefully glued or tacked in place, two inches in from the edge, to give a framing effect. Good luck with your roosters. Cut carefully, glue neatly, and your friends will crow about your pictures, too. THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Pattern designed and used by Mrs. John Fishburn to make colorful felt pictures for less than a dollar each. Numbers indicate order in which pieces are placed on the burlap-covered board. Color Code: Rred, Oorange, Ggold, Grgreen, Bblack, Br - brown. 837 "Little Acts of Kindness and of Love" Elsie C. Carroll IN borrowing a line from Wordsworth for my title, I purposely omitted two words. He wrote "little, nameless, unremembered, acts of kindness and of love." Such acts as I am thinking of may be unremembered, and nameless to the persons who performed them, but they are long remembered, identified, and cherished by the recipient. My life has been made richer and happier by innumerable such acts. Only today I answered my doorbell to find a pretty little girl with a box of fresh picked raspberries a neighbor had sent — berries from the few bushes in her back yard which her family could well have relished. This family knows the joy of sharing delicacies with others. On last Valentine's day the children of a family who had moved into their new home across the street from me a short time before, and with whom I had not really become acquainted, brought me a beautiful valentine lunch — including heart-shaped sandwiches, cookies, and salad, and with a cute little valentine on which they (or their remarkable mother) had written: 'When you need someone to do errands, call us." This was followed by their names and telephone number. That was the first of many such acts that give the true meaning to the word neighbor. One time when I was returning to Utah from a stay in the East with my two small children, my little daughter became sick. She needed my full attention. Her three-year-old brother wanted to run up and down the aisle and to annoy the passengers generally. I was beside myself with anxiety and embarrassment. This had not been going on long when a pretty woman came to my very apparent need. She captured my son and took him to her own seat in the other end of the car. During a long afternoon and evening she entertained him, relieving me of an embarrassing situation and keeping him happy. When we reached my destination she helped me off the train into the hands of waiting relatives. A life-long regret is that in thanking her for such a wonderful kindness, I did not learn her name or address. But I shall never forget her. She remains in my memory as a lovely angel. Hers was not a little act of kindness; it was too big to be measured. Another act of similar dimension came as a blessing years later. I was returning to my home after my daughter's marriage, and her departure for her honeymoon. My son was away. Neither one would ever be at home again, except for visits. I had adjusted as well as a woman can to years of widowhood, but now a new adjustment faced me. It was dusk when I drove into my garage. The house was dark, and lonely. It could never be a real home again, it seemed to me at that desolate moment. It took me some time to find courage to walk to the house. I contemplated going to the home of a relative or friend — at least for this one night. But, I realized it would be as hard the next night, or the next. It was a new life I was facing, and it was up to me how I faced it. Finally, I unlocked the door and went inside. I turned on a light and started toward my bedroom where I intended to throw myself on my bed and release the pent-up tears that were choking me. I felt that I could weep forever. My doorbell rang. Reluctantly I answered it. There stood my friend Nellie. Before I could speak she said: "Here I am with my nightgown. I knew how hard this first night with Helen and Charlie both gone would be. Tomorrow will be a new day, and the sun will be shining. But I didn't want you to be alone tonight." A little act of kindness and of love. No! It was a big act, and it helped more than Nellie could know. She may have forgotten it. But her act. With so many others that have blessed and brightened my life, will never be unremembered by me. 838 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT a ey »" Crocheting Is a Fine Art for Callie Haggard Mrs. Callie C. Haggard, Laveen, Arizona, has often looked at her crochet hook and her balls of thread, and considered a multitude of opportunities for creating designs of artistry and usefulness. She declares that her handicraft hobbies keep her busy and happy, and these qualities are evident in the many exquisite articles which Mrs. Haggard presents as gifts to her relatives and friends. She has made hundreds of crocheted doilies and dish towel sets, embroidered pillowslips (with crocheted edgings), and many smaller decorative items. She has made many quilts for her children and grandchildren, and the making of quilts, when Mrs. Haggard was a young woman, paid for piano lessons for her daughters. She has made many articles for Relief Society bazaars and has instructed groups of young women in handicraft skills. For fifty years she has been a faithful visiting teacher. Her progeny number nine children, forty-two grandchildren, and seventy-nine great-grandchildren. She refers to her loved ones as the crown of her long and happy life. 839 The Turn of the Wheel Synopsis: Elsa Breinholt meets Clay Knowlton, an American sergeant stationed with the United States Army in Heidelberg. He is a member of the English-speaking branch of the Church. In her own branch a recently arrived member is Karl Ernst, who accompanies her and her mother and sister home to Sunday dinner. Ow the following Sunday Elsa asked Brother Meyer if she might attend Sunday School upstairs. "T am anxious to have every opportunity to improve my English," she said. ''Maria will play the organ in here." "For today — if you wish," he agreed. '"'But we must not lose you altogether. We need everyone we have — and more." "Yes, I know. And I promise B40 _: " nd oa r Bb a eS + ve. "a Ds ' - a F x ge Sa» 2s z Se, Age oo rere ae ' ine Wd: ae r c Ret 4 ey Pe 4 ye, < 2 q ae vere ua CHAPTER 2 Mabel Harmer that it will be only for this once. At least, it will not be very often." Brother Meyer answered her beguiling smile with a fatherly pat on the shoulder and turned to greet other members of the branch. As Elsa climbed the stairway she asked herself, "Now, am I entirely honest in persuading myself that I am coming up here to better my English?" Not quite able to answer, she took a seat at the rear and looked around. There were some few whom she knew but many who were strangers. The military personnel of the United States Army base, with their families, made up the greater part of the congregation. There were also a few tourists and some missionaries, touring Europe on their way home from various countries. She did not see Clay Knowlton and had to acknowledge a slight pang of disappointment. She also had to admit that, if the improving of her English had been her primary objective in coming up, it had not been her entire aim. She was both pleased and surprised, therefore, to meet him on the steps outside, after the service. 'So, there you are!" he exclaimed. "Here I come to your Sunday School especially to meet you — and you are not there." Elsa's cheeks colored. She might have convinced herself that she had gone upstairs with no ulterior motives, but he would most certainly believe otherwise. She was rather glad that Maria joined them at that moment and asked with outrageous candor, "Did your friend sleep in again today?" "No. He has gone to Holland for the week end. He claimed that he had to see the acres of tulips in bloom, whether I was left to walk or not. I did manage to get a ride with one of the other families, however. One of these days I shall have my own car. Then you and I will take a long ride wherever you wish." "Good! I hope that it will be very soon." "No more than do I," agreed Clay heartily. '"'I see that my people are ready to leave now, so I'll have to hurry. See you all later." He left, and Karl, who had been talking with Brother Meyer, but THE TURN OF THE WHEEL constantly casting glances their way, came over to join them. Sister Breinholt, who had been visiting with other friends, also hurried over. "You will come home with us to dinner, I hope?" she said to Karl. "Thank you very much. I would surely like to," he replied, "but I have been invited home with the Meyers today." "That is too bad." Her face showed genuine disappointment. '""Some other time, then. And how is the work coming?" "Fine, thank you," Karl replied. "I am going to be kept very busy... Which is just what I wanted." The three said their goodbyes and left for home. "'I like Brother Knowlton the best," remarked Maria as they walked along. ''He looks just like a movie actor. Maybe his hair could be a bit more red, or golden, or something. But his eyes are nice and blue and he is so tall." "The best of whom?" asked Elsa, pretending innocence. "The best of your two young men, of course. Karl is nice, too, and he has a gorgeous smile. But Clay is the most fun. Don't you think so?" "T hadn't even thought about it,' answered Elsa coolly. "And they are certainly not my young men." "Then you had best start thinking," reproved her mother. "A fine young man like Karl will not be left unnoticed for very long. There are too many single girls around." "But none so beautiful as Elsa," said Maria complacently. "If he prefers them, that is up to him," smiled Elsa, putting her 9 841 NOVEMBER 1964 arm around her younger sister's shoulders. A few days later, as she was preparing to leave the shop, she was surprised — and pleased — to have Clay drop in again. "I want one of those cute little Hummels," he said. 'It's my sister's birthday. You make the choice. I'm sure that you can do it much better than I." "Thank you. This one is a great favorite," and she held up the figurine of the two children under an umbrella. "That's fine — for a starter. I'm going to send as many as I can, one at a time. Jean is fourteen and something of a doll herself."" He walked around the shop, looking at different items. Holding up a small clock, he said, "T understand that next Monday is a holiday around here, Easter Monday." "Yes." Elsa took the clock and wound it up so that the cuckoo would perform. "Then, how about going on a boat trip up the river with me? I am told there are some lovely medieval towns where one can stop for lunch, and that the whole trip is very beautiful." Elsa hesitated only a moment. There was no really good reason why she shouldn't go. It had been a long time since she had enjoyed a treat like this, and it would be an almost perfect way to spend the holiday. 'All right," she nodded. 'Shall we leave early? 'Then we could go as far as Hirschorn and have plenty of time to visit the castle, as well as having our lunch." "Tt sounds great," agreed Clay. 842 "T'll call for you about ten. I have my own hack now." "Hack?" repeated Elsa, puzzled. "Car. Automobile. One of the fellows who was leaving to go back to the States sold me his." When she arrived home Elsa told her plans to her mother with some diffidence. While Sister Breinholt was not enthusiastic about the outing, neither did she disapprove and even offered to pack a lunch. "Thank you, no," Elsa replied. "We'll stop for lunch either at Hirschorn or Eberbach. That's part of the fun of going." it was a beautiful, bright day and so many people were taking advantage of the holiday that every chair on the deck of the pleasure boat was filled. All along the green, sloping banks of the river were families with their blankets spread on the grass and their heavy food hampers close by. Elsa thought that she had never seen such a peaceful, lovely scene. As they entered the first lock, and the boat slowly rose, Clay said, "I've never been on a river like this before. Out West our streams seem to rush down as if they were in a hurry to get somewhere." "Is everything in America in such a hurry?" she asked. "Oh, no. As a matter of fact, I doubt if we work nearly as hard as you do. You should come over and see." "T am going to." She spoke as if it were quite taken for granted. "Good! That's a fine idea. Do you plan to go right away?" "No. I wish that I could. But I have no means to go now. However, I am saving my money, and it will not take too much longer. Then, of course, I must have a sponsor."' "That will be easy." Clay made it sound as if it were a sponsor for an outdoor picnic. "Anyway, I imagine it will. My folks would be glad to sponsor you. I'll write at once. I suppose you don't happen to have any friends or relatives over there?" "Relatives, yes — but not in Utah. That is one reason I am so anxious to go. My grandfather went many years ago when he first joined the Church. Two uncles went also. They have farms in Idaho and have done very well. Their children have had fine educations, and all are prominent in their communities. The grandparents are dead now. My own father was the only one in the family who did not go. He died in the war. I feel very deeply now that I should go — and work to bring over Mother and Maria when I can." "Good," Clay nodded his approval. ''And do they also feel this way?" "Mother, no. She is quite willing to stay here. She loves Heidelberg. She loves Germany. Especially now that there is work for everyone. Maria is like me. She also has the wanderlust. And, since there are only the three of us, Mother would go if we did." They settled back in their deck chairs to watch the passing scene as the boat moved slowly up the river. 'This is like something out of a storybook," Clay remarked, "to be floating past medieval towns and ancient casTHE TURN OF THE WHEEL tles with a golden-haired princess." "Who tomorrow will turn back into a shopgirl," smiled Elsa. "No, that is merely a disguise. She will still be the princess, merely waiting for her knight to come and claim her." Elsa, with little imagination, could almost believe it was true — especially when she looked up at the old castle on the top of the hill. Ordinary mortals could not possibly have belonged in such a romantic setting. THEY decided to stop at Hirschorn and perhaps take a later boat on to Eberbach, or save that trip for another day. As they walked ashore Clay remarked, 'This place looks so interesting that we may decide not to go back at all. We may just decide to move into the castle and take over. Perhaps you are one of the descendants, and the castle really belongs to you anyway." "Tf we do move in, we'll be awfully lonely," she replied. ""The last of the Hirschorn family died out nearly 300 years ago. At least, the last son died. There was a feud between the members of the Hirschorn family and the lords of Handschusheim. Both families were fearful that their lines would die out and hoped for the birth of sons. The last two fought a duel in Heidelberg, and that was the end of their families — at least as far as males were concerned." "That may be. But I still think that you must have a valid claim. Shall we go up and see if Elsa is carved on one of the great wooden doors? And I rather think 843 NOVEMBER 1964 there will be a great key hanging by the side with a notice that reads, For Elsa." "Then let us go by all means, but — " as she turned towards the shops — "after lunch. I doubt if we will find a table set in the banquet room labeled For Elsa." They walked through the old town with its quaint, half-timbered houses, until they found a cafe with an outdoor eating space in a garden. The food was both substantial and savory but, with their healthy young appetites, they would have enjoyed plain boiled beef and cabbage. Afterward, they sat in the shade and talked, forgetting that there was a key on the castle door waiting for Elsa, until the proprietor reminded them by taking the cloth from the table and shaking it vigorously, almost in their faces. They were too happy to mind this slight discourtesy and went away, climbing the hill towards the castle. They went as far as the ramparts, only vestiges of which now remained. "I think perhaps that we should turn back," said Elsa. "I'm not sure what time we can get a boat. And we should reach home before dark." "Then you will never know if the key still waits for the princess," said Clay, shading his eyes and looking upward, as if he might determine even from that distance. 'On the other hand, it will give us a wonderful excuse to come again." "Yes. And if the key has hung there for 300 years, it will stay for a few more weeks — or even years," Elsa smiled. 844 THEY walked back down the hill and soon afterwards caught a boat. There were some students aboard, one with an accordion, and all with vigorous voices. Many of those aboard, including Elsa, joined in the songs. Clay sang along in English, if he happened to know the song. When they came forth with "Du, du liebst mir im Herzen," he was able to join in with his own version of German. "Our glee club sang that in school," he explained. "Only I didn't appreciate it at the time." The sun had set behind the western hills by the time they arrived back in Heidelberg. The last golden rays lit up the towers of the great castle on the hill and the Old Bridge. "T could sure fall in love with this town," said Clay, as the boat drew up to the landing dock. "Tt's no wonder you read so much romantic stuff about it — like the Student Prince, for instance. Do you suppose that the girl Kathy married someone here, after the prince was shipped out, and that she was one of your ancestors?" "No," Elsa replied gravely. "I'm a princess of the House of Hirschorn — remember?" "Sure." Clay took her arm to guide her up the steps. 'But that was earlier. When the fortunes fell, your great-grandmother came here and was a waitress at the inn. Are you really serious about going to America?" "Really. I am quite serious." "Okay. We'll get going on it. Since you speak English so well there should be no trouble in getting work." As he left her at the house, he said, "Auf wiedersehen — and thanks for one of the loveliest days in all my life." '"'And mine," she replied. "Auf wiedersehen."' She ran up the steps, and when she entered the house was surprised to see Karl sitting at the supper table with her mother and Maria. "Hello," she said, slipping off her sweater and joining them at the table. "Aren't you eating awfully late?" "Yes," agreed her mother. "We have been working as long as the light lasted. Karl has been helping us to clean up the garden and put in some tomato plants. He has been working here all day." Her tone implied ''While you have been gallivanting off up the river." "How good of you," said Elsa smiling. "You must come and help us eat all the tomatoes. If they grow, that is,'' she added mischievously. "They will grow," Karl answered emphatically. "That I promise. They must grow if I am to help you eat them. I will watch over them like a fend parent." bd Kar left soon after they were through eating, saying that he would look in after his plants very often. No sooner was he out of earshot than Sister Breinholt said, with a deep sigh of satisfaction, "My, but that is a fine young man!" "And handsome," added Maria. "Of course, he isn't quite so tall as Clay, but he has beautiful hair — so thick and almost black. And he has a wonderful smile."' THE TURN OF THE WHEEL As her mother looked to her for confirmation, Elsa agreed heartily. "Yes, he is indeed. I] hope that he does well in his work here. And he will surely be a great help in the branch." '""All day he worked in the garden," said Sister Breinholt, nodding vigorously. "And what do you think! He has promised to build us a small greenhouse. Then we can have vegetables and fruits early in the season. He thinks that he can do it for about two hundred marks. That would mean only a little more than fifteen dollars from each one of us." Elsa hated to throw a damper on her enthusiasm, but she knew that this was the time. She drew a deep breath and said, "I'm sorry, Mother, but I cannot help. I am going to save as much as I can. In the fall I may have a chance to go to America."' "Go to America!" exclaimed her mother, as if such adventures were completely unknown. "Why ~ in the world would you want to do that?" Elsa sighed. They had been over this ground many times before. But before it had been only a dream. Now it could easily become a reality. "You know why I want to go. Because there is opportunity there for young people. Our grandfather left everything here to go over and help build up the Church and the State. His sons and grandsons have reaped all the benefits so far. I would like to share in it, too. I think that he would like to have me share in it." "But you have so much here," her mother went on incredulous- 845 NOVEMBER 1964 ly, "a good job — nice friends — a good home." "Working in a shop is not such a wonderful job. And it will never be any better. I have no other prospects."' "But perhaps you will get married,' her mother persisted. 'So pretty a girl as you is bound to get married. So far there have not been many young men in the branch. But now there is Karl." "Mother!" Elsa interrupted. "You haven't the slightest notion that Karl may be interested in me. Perhaps he has a girl back home who is waiting for him to send for her." That was a possibility that Sister Breinholt had not considered. She was taken back and speechless for a moment. But for a moment only. 'No. I can tell from the way he looks at you. Besides, he would not dig in the garden all day for an old woman like me." That gave her another idea. With an infinitely sad look, she asked, '"'Would you leave your mother now that I am growing old?" Elsa laughed and went over to give her a light kiss. "You are not old at all, Mother, and you know it. Anyway, you and Maria may decide that you want to come to America, too." "Indeed we might," agreed Maria. "And I'll pay for your share on the greenhouse. Who knows — I may get your share of interest in the young men who have been wearing our path thin." Elsa put her arms around her sister's shoulders. "I am willing to give you any shares that are mine to give," she said. "You already have my old job. You are more than welcome to all else." (To be continued) Time Evelyn Fjeldsted Time is the one great friend of man Drawing back the portals of each day. Previewing man's eternity, Time directs him on his way. Time heals all the wounds of man, Gently veiling every scar; Teaching by experience, The way of peace — the way of war. Time, the truest friend of man, Though seeming harsh, is always kind. Even memories too keen to bear, Are dimmed by time in every mind. 846 FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field Tue Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors or presidents. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanists, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be visible. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. 847 NOVEMBER 1964 Puget Sound Stake (Washington) Conducts 'Friendship Fair' May 22, 1964 This display of lovely quilts and other articles of handicraft from the Bremerton Second Ward, is representative of the many booths and displays which made this "Fair" an outstanding event, long to be remembered in Puget Sound Stake. Ethel B. Whiting, President, Puget Sound Stake Relief Society, reports: "We sent out and personally distributed 1,000 invitations, not just in Tacoma; but all over the stake, with the help of the presidents and visiting teachers. We had a fifty-minute program at one o'clock in the afternoon, and repeated it at seven o'clock in the evening, with a member of the stake presidency speaking at both programs. A group of fifty Singing Mothers from six wards sang 'Why a Singing Mother Sings' and 'Beside Still Waters.' A panel of four sisters described Relief Society in an appealing and instructive way by means of a question and answer demonstration. The dramatization was written by Violet Nerdin, stake social science class leader. "The cultural hall was beautifully decorated with ferns and spring flowers to represent a garden path. The booths were arranged around the hall, and work displays were placed on tables on the stage, with others below the stage. Two sisters demonstrated cake making at one table, and two more showed how to make gifts out of felt from simple patterns. Beautiful original oil paintings and pastels brought many comments. The handwork was varied and outstanding. In the patio, small tables, covered with blue and gold cloths, were grouped. Two large serving tables were arranged most attractively with punch, cookies, open-faced sandwiches, and fruit breads. There were about 350 in attendance." Mount Graham Stake, Lordsburg Ward (New Mexico) Relief Society Honors First Executive Officers, May 5, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Lillie May Malone, First Counselor; Mabel A. Lines, President; Edith B. Bradberry, Second Counselor; Fannie A. Hill, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right, present officers: Helen G. Richins, First Counselor; Betty Joe B. Farnsworth, President; Maxene R. Jones, Second Counselor. Sister Hill, in the front row, is presently serving as secretary-treasurer. Millie Kelly, President, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports: "This special event honored the first executive officers and also commemorated the thirty-ninth birthday of the Lordsburg Relief Society, which was organized May 5, 1925. This was the first time these four sisters had been together since March 1926. What a wonderful reunion! "The program, including a short history of the time these four women served together, was presented by Ruth B. Barnes of Safford, Arizona. A song "Teach Me, Lord,' was beautifully rendered by the Singing Mothers, and a poem composed by Bishop Allen A. Hill was read by him. A skit 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand' was presented by Helen G. Richins, Grace T. Wright, Louise K. Lytle, Lola D. Richardson, June H. Hill, Elna M. Pace, with Ora P. Nelson at the piano. "Another highlight of the evening was the reviewing of a book on the history of the Lordsburg Relief Society since its organization, complete with pictures of every executive officer, and all other officers and class leaders, except eleven. Several group pictures were also shown. The material was collected and compiled by Fannie A. Hill. Stake Relief Society President Millie Kelly and three other members of the board were present. Refreshments of dainty homemade cookies, decorated mints, frozen banana punch, and nuts were served." 848 NOTES FROM THe FIELD 849 NOVEMBER 1964 West Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, January 25, 1964 At the right in the front row: Cleone Jones, chorister (in dark dress); at the right in the fourth row, at the piano (in dark dress): Sarah Stolworthy, organist. Margaret L. Jones, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports that 112 Singing Mothers participated in this chorus. Andes Mission (South America) First Relief Society Presidency Organized February 1964 Left to right: Clara Vasques, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary Davidson, work meeting leader; Dina Santillan, Work Director Counselor; Lilly Rodriquez, President; Edith Barrani, Education Counselor. Sister Rodriquez reports: "The Andes Mission is proud to announce the organization of its first mission Relief Society presidency. The new presidency, composed of local members, is responsible for directing the twenty-six organizations throughout Peru. The Church is growing rapidly in Peru, and Relief Society now has 407 members. As a new presidency, we are delighted to have our own local organization and are very pleased with the response of our members. "The convention of the Relief Society of the Andes Mission was held the 11th-12th of February, 1964, in the mission home. There were thirty-one sisters in attendance, representing the districts and independent branches. The discussion presented during the first session was on visual aids to help the sisters develop their lessons. During the second session the lessons for the new year were presented, after which a workshop was held, where each sister was able to present, or to help present a two-and-a-half-minute talk, using visual aids. The new literature lessons were presented by Yolanda Abregu, who wrote the lessons, which are on the Peruvian literature. The third session was a planned workday meeting. For the fashion show in the evening, the local sisters and their children modeled clothing that could be made in work meetings, introducing skirts and shirts with the Inca motif. During the last session discussions were presented for the presidents and secretaries separately. The concluding session was an inspirational testimony meeting in which the spiritual feeling among the sisters was bonded." Sister Vivian W. Nicolaysen is Relief Society supervisor of the Andes Mission. Idaho Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Conference March 8, 1964 Standing, back to the piano (in black dresses): chorister Helen Thomas and organist Karma Kunz; at the right (in dark dresses): Thelma B. Tovey of the General Board of the Primary Association and Irene W. Buehner of the General Board of Relief Society; standing back of Sister Tovey and Sister Buehner is Arlene T. Torgesen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society: Sister Torgesen reports: "All seven wards of our stake are represented in this group and nine members of the stake presidency and board. This picture was taken after our stake conference in March. The music by these lovely singers added much to the beauty and spirituality of the meetings. They are invited to sing many times as ward groups and they sang at the Relief Society closing social and friendship day of Idaho Stake, in June 1964." 85%) NOTES FROM THE FIELD — = a. Wor Ca aac Sugary we wage / -: - tf y P< « xe es. Ane wane! % oe;; a 2 j * > % oh °° ty ve "sy 851 NOVEMBER 1964 Grand Junction Stake (Colorado) Relief Society Presents ''A Festival of Arts'' April 10, 1964 Betty Christensen and Eudona Ficklin, left to right, are seen displaying a picture frame painted white, with flowers arranged on a blue velvet background. A tiered satin fruit arrangement and a "marble" centerpiece are also shown in the picture. Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 10, 1964, the Grand Junction Stake Relief Society presented "A Festival of Arts," culminating approximately a year's efforts in handiwork by the sisters of the stake. Work meeting leader Eudona Ficklin and Second Counselor Betty Christensen were responsible for spearheading this project. Over one thousand members and guests thrilled with us as they viewed the festival. The objective was to introduce the purpose and activities of Relief Society to our friends and neighbors through our theme 'Nothing to sell — just something to share.' "The members of the stake Relief Society board welcomed the guests as they entered the cultural hall and explained the 'Relief Society Picture,' which was portrayed by displays from each department in large gold frames. Attractively arranged Relief Society Magazines were presented to interested guests.. "Lavender, turquoise, and rose canopied booths captured the eye in a beautiful garden scene, where hundreds of beautiful displays of handiwork were proudly shown. Some of the booths were: 'Stitches of Love' (the clothing display); 'We Did It Over' (new things from old); 'A Hook, a Needle, and a Spool of Thread' (the fancywork booth); "The Staff of Life' (bakery booth); 'The Cover-Ups' (aprons, of course); 'The Bedtime Story (quilts and pillows). Then there were 'The Knit Shop' and 'Talent in Action.' A garden scene was the setting for two lovely mannequins, modeling hand-sewed wedding gowns, and displaying a hand-decorated wedding cake. "To further interest our guests were two authentic and exquisite foreign cookery scenes entitled 'Under the Yum-Yum Tree.' These featured a Hawaiian luau, complete with grass shack and pretty maidens who gave away delicious tidbits; and a Japanese scene. With blossoming cherry trees and a lovely lady cooking sukiyaki on a habachi. "We feel that the Lord certainly blessed us in that so many hearts were stirred — not only in admiration for the creative beauty they saw, but with a desire to know more about the gospel, which is responsible for our wonderful Priesthood-inspired Relief Society.". Midvale Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, May 2-3, 1964 Stake chorister Mellisa Beckstead (in white dress) is seated at the right in the front row; the fourth sister at the right of the pulpit is chorister Maxine Allmendinger; and the third sister is Marguerite Wright, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society; standing in the back row at the left is First Counselor Laura Tripp. Sister Wright reports: "Each month at Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special music. Our Cumorah (Spanish) Branch sang in Spanish when they furnished the musical number." B52 NOTES From THE FIELD 853 Lesson Department THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:1-42) For First Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant. INTRODUCTION From the spring until the fall of 1832, the Prophet Joseph Smith continued the revision of the Bible. In July the first copy of the Evening and Morning Star was received by him. This brought joy to the Prophet and the saints because they now had a publication in which to present the message of the restoration of the gospel to the world. This publication also served as the printed depository of many revelations since bound copies of the revelations did not come off the press In quantity until 1835. It will be remembered that of the 1833 edition all save a few copies of some of the forms of the unfinished book were destroyed when a Missouri mob destroyed the press upon which it was being printed. This new periodical was also a means through which the saints could answer the false charges which their enemies made against them. During the month of September the elders came in from their missions to report their stewardships. While thus engaged on the 22d and 23d of that month, the Lord opened the mind of the Prophet and gave him a remarkable revelation on Priesthood. J IE DLIIC AI MA > | | NEW JERU TEMPLE Section 84 begins with the assertion that the Church is to 855 NOVEMBER 1964 gather the Lord's people as predicted by the prophets. Moreover, the gathering place at that time, and also in the future, is the city of New Jerusalem where the saints will stand in the last days. (Verses 1-2.) A prophecy is made concerning the temple which will be erected in that city located in the western boundaries of the State of Missouri, the place already dedicated by the Prophet. In this prediction, the Lord says that the temple upon which his glory would rest would be reared in this generation. (Verses 3-5.) Inasmuch as that temple has not been built within an hundred years of 1832, some members of the Church have wondered about the length of a generation. Although a generation, under certain conditions, is mentioned in The Book of Mormon as an hundred years (Helaman 13:8- 11), the term, under other conditions, refers to an_ indefinite period. For example, Jesus said that it was an evil and adulterous generation that sought after a sign (Matt. 12:39), and in our dispensation the Lord said that "this generation shall have my word through you" (Joseph Smith) (D&C 5:10). From these examples, it is clear that the dispensation of the fulness of times is considered a generation, for the people of our time are still receiving the word of the Lord in the revelations received through Joseph Smith. There is no way of determining the number of years meant in Section 84, verses 4 and 5. There are two things to be known, however. First, that the Lord has said through his Prophet that the 856 temple will be built in this generation, and second, that from the time this announcement was made, the leaders of the Church have never departed from the Lord's intention. PRIESTHOOD GENEALOGY This revelation dealing with Priesthood appropriately begins with information about the building of the temple. The temple is the sanctuary where the highest ordinances and blessings of the Priesthood are received. (D&C 124:25-42.) Next, we find the genealogy of the Priesthood as held by Moses. (Ibid., 84:6-16.) The Priesthood is eternal and continues in the true Church. (Verse 17.) THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD After referring to the Lesser or Aaronic Priesthood as a part of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the powers of the Higher Priesthood are stated in this way: And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God Therefore, in the ordinance thereof. The power of godliness is manifest. And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh; For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live (D&C 84:19-22). The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the key to all the spiritual blessings of the gospel. The knowledge of God and the true plan of salvation is possible only through the divine means which the Lord has established. Life eternal is unavailable without the ordinances of the gospel administered by the authority to seal those ordinances on the earth as they are sealed in the heavens. The mysteries of the kingdom of God, as administered in the temple of God, are reserved for those who desire exaltation. These ordinances are for the faithful and not for the world. (Matt. 13:10- 13; Alma 12:9-11.) In Section 84, verses 21 and 22, it is said that in order for one to see the face of God, and, therefore, to know him, the Priesthood is necessary. ANCIENT ISRAEL In Section 84, attention is directed to the experience of the children of Israel in the days of Moses. (Verses 23-27.) Moses endeavored to teach the _ principles of exaltation to Israel, but they hardened their hearts and thus denied themselves the opportunity to enter into the Lord's presence. Moses held the Higher Priesthood and, while on Mount Horeb, the Lord gave him the fulness of the gospel with its principles and ordinances of exaltation. When Moses saw the idolatrous condition of the Israelites, he broke the tablet of writings. Another tablet containing the law of carnal commandments, as mentioned in Section 84, verses 26 and 27, was given him and the Melchizedek Priesthood was taken away from Israel. In the revision of the Bible by Joseph Smith, we find the following, which is in harmony with Section 84: And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two other tables of stone, like LESSON DEPARTMENT unto the first, and I will write upon them also, the words of the law, according as they were written at the first on the tables which thou brakest; but it shall not be according to the first, for I will take away the priesthood out of their midst; therefore my holy order, and the ordinances thereof, shall not go before them; for my presence shall not go up in their midst, lest I destroy them. But I will give unto them the law as at the first, but it shall be after the law of a carnal commandment; for I have sworn in my wrath, that they shall not enter into my presence, into my rest, in the days of their pilgrimage Thus ancient Israel lost its opportunity to receive the ordinances of godliness to receive the knowledge of God. With the loss of the Higher Priesthood, the Aaronic Priesthood administered a preparatory gospel, or law of carnal commandments, until the coming of Christ in the meridian dispensation. There were times from Moses to Christ when the prophets held the Higher Priesthood, but it was not conferred upon others as it is today. (Teachings of the Phophet Joseph Smith, page 181.) JOHN THE BAPTIST John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, was raised up by God to make straight the way of the Lord. We are informed that he was baptized while yet in his childhood and the Priesthood was conferred upon him by an angel of the Lord. (D&C 84:28.) The New Testament says that he was called of God. (Luke 3:2.) SONS OF MOSES After mentioning that the Priesthood — Melchizedek and 857 NOVEMBER 1964 Aaronic — has offices as appendages (D&C 84:29-30), reference is again made to the temple to be constructed in Jackson County, Missouri. These few verses are highly interesting because they point out a service to be performed by present-day Priesthood bearers and the functioning of the temple in the New Jerusalem. It is said that the sons of Moses and the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable offering in that temple, and that these brethren will be filled with the glory of the Lord in that house. (Verses 31-32.) But who are they today that have the promise of officiating in the temple when it is built in Independence, Missouri? The Lord answers in this manner: For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies. They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God (Verses 33-34). These are Latter-day Saint Priesthood holders who honor and magnify their callings — in other words, those who keep the commandments and answer to the calls made upon them to function in the Priesthood. IMPORTANCE OF PRIESTHOOD Two important aspects of Priesthood are made known in verses 35 to 42 of Section 84. First, the acceptance of the Priesthood by the Priesthood bearer: And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord; 858 For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him. And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood (Verses 35-39). In these verses one is promised the highest blessing available to the child of God — eternal life. This is expressed in verse 38 in the most complete way possible. All that the Father hath shall be given to him who accepts the Lord through his servants. Acceptance of the Lord's servant means completely obeying the will of the Lord as given by his ancient and modern prophets. That one may understand the binding force of this promise, the revelation refers to the oath and covenant of the Priesthood. The second important responsibility pertaining to the Priesthood is found in these words: Therefore, all those who receive the priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved. But whoso breaketh this covenant after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come (Verses 40-41). Attention is directed in the foregoing words to those who possess the Priesthood. The authority to bind and seal which God gives to his faithful sons is of such importance that a covenant (agreement or contract) is made between the recipient and the Lord. In essence it is: if you abide by the law of the Priesthood, every blessing within my . Is agreement Prepare himself pertains to the igher Priesthood pemples of and not th Aaronic. (DHC y. 7 a man Magnify his Calling jf € is not Obedient to 80Spel s tandards 859 NOVEMBER 1964 and requirements, and if he also fails to be amenable to the counsel and direction of righteous men who are properly called and approved by the people as their authorized leaders? 5. Can a man magnify his calling who refuses to sustain by his faith, prayers, and works those whom God has called and ordained to preside over him? 6. Can a man magnify his calling who does not use his priesthood in righteousness for the blessing and benefit of his fellow men? 7. Can a man magnify his calling who does not banish all iniquity from his soul, that he may gain favor with God and thus enjoy power in the use of the priesthood to bless people? Again, may I summarize by asking, "Can a man magnify his calling who is not willing to sacrifice and consecrate all for the building of God's kingdom in righteousness, truth, and power in the earth?" (Conference Report, April 1957, pp. 76-77). THE PENALTY The letter and the spirit of this revelation on the oath and covenant of the Priesthood give emphasis to the binding force of this covenant. The Lord says that he will hold inviolate the agreement as long as man honors and magnifies the Priesthood. (D&C 84:40.) The responsibility for maintaining the contract is upon man. Man is on trial, not God. The seriousness of this oath is also pointed up by the fact that he who altogether turns away from the Priesthood shall not have forgiveness. (Verse 41.) Because 860 this expression "shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come," is associated with the penalty received by the sons of perdition (Lesson 57, July 1964), it should be known that all men who so turn away from the Priesthood may not, as a necessary result, become sons of perdition. It is possible for the unfaithful Priesthood bearer to become indifferent to keeping the commandments and to fail to magnify his calling, yet never to receive the light and understanding nor fall to such depths of wickedness as to become a son of perdition. It is apparent, therefore, that the loss of forgiveness entails the great punishment of being denied the Priesthood in the future life. Without the Priesthood no man may enter into the exaltation. This lesson should point out the importance of the Priesthood to all members of the Church. No one in the Church should take lightly any responsibility assigned him by the servants of God. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is meant by "the genealogy of the Priesthood," and who received this authority first on the earth? 2. Who receives the oath and covenant of the Priesthood, and what is the penalty for breaking it? 3. What does it mean to magnify one's calling in the Priesthood? Be specific. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 61 — ''Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" (D&C 82:5). For First Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard. Since the war in heaven, when Satan and his hosts were cast out, their evil influence has struggled continuously to capture men's souls and to thwart the Lord's work. Evil has always been in the world but the adversary has been particularly aggressive in attempting to spread his dominion during those periods when the Priesthood has been on the earth. This is undoubtedly why, since the restoration of the gospel, we have been repeatedly warned to watch and be alert to the temptations of the evil one. Never during the history of the world has our Father in heaven's kingdom progressed more rapidly. Consequently, probably more than at any other time in history, the adversary has marshalled his forces to obstruct it. Our modern lives are crowded with temptations. Pressures Aare brought to bear upon us from all directions — the advertisements we read, the radio, television, movies, books, and plays — all of these, at times, in a variety of ways, tempt us to lower the quality of our morals and to give in a little here and there on our standards and principles. These are the devious ways the adversary employs to ensnare us little by little until he has us completely in his power. These are the little temptations which are made so enticing and attractive and seem so harmless in and of themselves. These are probably the things about which the prophet Nephi warned us when he said that in latter days, there would be many who would say: Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God — he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God (2 Nephi 28:8). 861 NOVEMBER 1964 The devil has always worked thus. He knows that if he can encourage us to take a few "'little steps" in his direction, he may ensnare us and lead us the whole way. This is why we must be eternally vigilant against the temptations of such things as haughtiness, envy and pride, of giving vent to uncontrolled irritations or angers, of succumbing to the demoralizing effects of selfishness and jealousy. We should avoid the inhibiting effects of discouragement and doubt and should cleanse our minds and attitudes from fault-finding and contention. 'These are some of the so-called "'little,"' easy-to-slipinto character weaknesses which dull the conscience and make it easier to yield to the bigger things that, eventually, will lead us away from the Spirit of our Father in heaven. In our vigilance against enticements of the adversary, let's be aware of our own _ individual weaknesses, recognizing that the evil one seeks to tempt us where we are most vulnerable. Despite the buffetings of Satan and the temptations he throws in our paths, we should remember that these are a part of the Lord's plan for our growth and development. "Temptation, is an important factor in man's probation; for by resisting it, the soul is developed and made_= stronger" (Whitney, Orson F.: Saturday Night Thoughts, page 310). In teaching his sons, the prophet Lehi explained this eternal principle when he said:... For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not 862 so... Righteousness could not be brought to pass if ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness.... Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the oth- - er (2 Nephi 2:11, 13, 16). How can we fortify ourselves so that we can clearly distinguish good from evil and avoid being enticed by evil influences? The Book of Mormon prophet Mormon told us how we might know good from evil when he said: the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good from evil! Wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ... And serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil (Moroni 7:16-17). President Brigham Young told us how we could overcor?2 evil when he said, ""When temptations come to you, be humble and faithful, and determined that you will overcome, and you will receive a deliverance'"' (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 82). The great prophet Alma also instructed, "humble yourself before the Lord, and call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear" (Alma 13:28). Let us heed the warnings of the Lord and his servants and continually be on guard, watching, "for the adversary spreadeth his dominion." Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1: Introduction (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To introduce the present course of study and to define its relationship to the Family Home Evening Program of the Church Tus lesson introduces Teaching the Gospel in the Home, a Relief Society course of study designed to correlate with the current Melchizedek Priesthood quorum lessons and to support the Family Home Evening Program which is to be initiated in the Church in January 1965. As the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons will '"'help the father to carry out the home program by helping him understand and carry out his duties as the spiritual leader of his family,' these Relief Society lessons should enable the Latter-day Saint mother more clearly to understand her role as wife and mother, and should encourage her to support her husband in his spiritual leadership of the family. The lessons should motivate her to a full cooperation with all aspects of the home program. In order to cooperate fully with this program, the Latter-day Saint mother must understand the place of the family in the divine "scheme of things." She must strive to establish the kind of relationship among _ family members that will be favorable to an acceptance of this gospelteaching program. She should realize that her attitude will be an important influence for good or a deterrent to the progress of the work, and she, herself, must become more informed as to the principles of the restored gospel. The purpose of these Relief Society lessons is, therefore, to help the mother become an effective instrument with her husband in teaching the gospel to the family. How often, in past years, have we heard a Latter-day Saint mother say, "I wish my husband could have heard the discussion today. Had he done so I am sure he would feel differently about a 863 NOVEMBER 1964 particular problem we have in our home." It is a realistic observation that with widely divergent points of view, the efforts of one parent often may nullify the efforts of the other parent, sometimes with great detriment to the persons involved and to the problem which needs to be resolved. The correlation of these lessons with those being studied by the Priesthood quorums can be of great value, since it will bring to both parents an awareness of their joint responsibility to teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel. In fact, it is hoped that through a mutual understanding of this responsibility, Latter-day Saint parents will work unitedly to meet this teaching challenge and that they will strive earnestly to bring a fullness of the blessings of the gospel into their homes. DIVINE DIRECTIVE And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands (D & C 68:25-27). This quoted directive from our Heavenly Father clearly indicates that parents are responsible for teaching their children certain basic principles of the gospel. Several specifics, as constituting this 864 basic teaching, are listed: namely, the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ as the Son of the living God, and of baptism and of the gift of the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, parents are directed to see that certain important ordinances are performed: that their children are baptized at the age of eight years and receive the "laying on of the hands"; that they are taught, by their parents, to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. It is also important to note that this counsel is not to be considered an optional matter, merely a good idea, but that it is given as a direct commandment. FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM AN AiD TO PARENTS Latter-day Saint families have always been encouraged by the Church to heed the divine commandment to teach their children the principles of the gospel. The Family Night was instituted as a time when families would play, study, and worship together. Many families throughout the Church have consistently set aside a weekly evening for this purpose and they affirm that this observance has been well worth the effort involved. In too many instances, however, recreational activities have been emphasized to the exclusion of gospel study. Many parents, no doubt, may feel inadequate and unprepared to teach gospel doctrines to their children, and are inclined to leave all religious instruction to the auxiliary organizations. The Lord would not have given this responsibility to parents, however, had he not decreed that this important function should be carried out by them. Relief Society members have studied the scriptures over the years and are in an advantageous position to support their husbands in this home gospel teaching. Formal training is not necessary in order to teach effectively the basic doctrines of the Church, but faith and a desire to study and to understand the principles of the gospel are definitely needed. To assist parents in carrying out the responsibility given them by the Lord, the leaders of the Church through inspiration have developed the home program which is a Priesthood administrative responsibility. FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM The Family Home Evening Program, will involve every member of the Church, for its fundamental concern is that every Church member be more fully instructed in Church doctrine. "Therefore, every family unit, however composed, should participate in the instruction program." Couples without children, a single person living alone, roommates, as well as families, can all benefit from the newly instituted program. The lessons will include material adapted to the particular needs of special types of families, where such adaptation is necessary. An instruction period, similar to that planned for the family night, is to be held. In addition to the gospel lessons, the manual gives suggestions for family activities which should set a general climate for LESSON DEPARTMENT the home throughout the month. There are many avenues through which gospel instruction may be made a part of family living. Gospel truths and ideals can become a vital factor in shaping young lives where parents are aware of the many possibilities within their particular sphere of influence and jurisdiction. Various activities which bring families together in play or to engage in creative projects, will be encouraged. It is necessary that the family also read and discuss the scriptures. A set of the standard works of the Church should be found in every home, and parents can plan to give them as gifts to their children on special occasions. Every member should have a set of the standard works. FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM MANUAL Each year the lessons in the Family Home Evening Program manual will consider fundamental principles of the gospel and they will deal with four universal concerns to the Latter-day Saints. The emphasis will be placed upon application of the truths in these universals. Lessons prepared for Priesthood Quorums and Relief Society will likewise emphasize the importance of translating the gospel teachings into action. The relationship of the individual to his family, to others, and to the community will be emphasized. This year the following relationships will be stressed: 1. My relationship with my Heavenly Father. 2. My relationship with the Savior. 3. My relationship with the 'Holy Ghost. 865 NOVEMBER 1964 4. My relationship with the Restored Church. Although parents carry the responsibility to teach their children, the children also should participate in presenting lesson materials and should be encouraged to enter actively into the discussion. It is expected that the Family Home Evening Program will become the basic teaching program for the members of the Church. All other Church lesson materials will be written to support, supplement, and complement the home lessons (Lesson 1, Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons, 1965). CONCLUSION The program of Relief Society is and always has been centered in the home. It endeavors through its varied courses of study and activities, to assist Latter-day Saint women to become better wives and _ better mothers. As Relief Society sisters contemplate the wisdom and the vast potential influence of this new program, they will welcome the opportunity to be a part of it. They will find in the lessons and in the Family Home Evening Program manual, encouragement and reinforcement for their inherent and sacred responsibility. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What can a mother do to establish a home atmosphere which will promote an acceptance of this program? 2. How can parents arrange a home evening which will be inviting to the teenage members of the family? 3. Why are parents inclined to leave gospel instruction of their children to the Primary, Sunday School, or M. I. A.? 4. What evidence can you give that there is need for more religious guidance in the home? 5. Discuss the merit of the Family Home Evening Program for families where there are no children. Undefeated Ruth H. Chadwick The seed Of hope and faith That's planted deep within The heart of man, defies neglect And drought. When dew Of sacrifice And love replaces hate And covetous desires, the seed Responds. It throbs With life that bursts The hardened shell, and sends Its bud of promise forth to bloom Once more. B66 LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 5 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part | (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 111-280) For Third Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To show how literature dramatizes the evil of As we look about us how rarely does anyone seem to ignore material concerns. We must all provide for ourselves and those dependent upon us in a continuing round of practical activities. We are even warned (I Tim. 5:8) that failure to provide is a denial of the faith. We are so obviously in the world that few of us seem to need warning to give adequate attention to material things. The daily insistence of household duties alone appears sufficient to remind us that part of our preparation for a heavenly mansion may come through taking care of an earthly home. It is only when we lose the vision of heaven in viewing the earth that our need to distinguish between eternal, Spiritual values and temporary, material ones seems to become critical. No theme has had a more persistent literary history than the materialism and affirms higher values. Vanity of worldly wishes, The ancient Anglo Saxon poem "The Wanderer" — probably written early in the eighth century— stresses that "all the foundations of the earth shall fail" and that the only happy man is the one "who seeketh for mercy from his Heavenly Father." In early French literature we have a similar awareness of the fact that nothing material lasts. Francois Villon (1431-1463) laments: "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" The very persistence of this theme during many years and in many lands is depressing evidence that being of the world as well as in it is a problem for most men. The stories and poems which have been selected to support this lesson can barely suggest the variety and deception of materialistic temptation, but they do attempt to suggest part of its range. 867 In "Three Arshins of Land," for instance, Count Leo Tolstoi (1828-1910) presents a relatively simple tale of the degenerative effects of greed. The desire to possess becomes an end in itself that Pakhom destroys his own to own more and more property infects all of his attitudes. He resents those with property when he has little and scorns those without property when he has much. When poor, he is jealous and bitter, and when rich he is proud and unfeeling. The real point to note here however, is that Pakhom destroys his own ability to discriminate. He chooses a life of greed, and this makes all his attitudes and actions gross. The final irony, of course, is that all he eventually has is a tiny burial tract. In light of the critical principles which we have been using in this course note how the author sacrifices everything in this story to his message. From the Platonic point of view, in which message is paramount, this is effective, but it has a tendency to turn a story into a sermon. We do get Tolstoi's point, yet we are probably less affected by it than we would be if it were presented in such a way that we found it easier to see ourselves and our problems in more believable terms. The second selection, an abridged version of 'The Pardoner's Tale" by Geoffrey Chaucer (1343-1400) is also clearly intent on teaching a moral lesson, but such is Chaucer's skill that we cannot fail to note how much more force he gives his whole account by having the teller of B68 the story demonstrate, at the conclusion of his tale, the very qualities he has been deploring in others. We are uncomfortably aware of how human this is, and we find ourselves reacting strongly. If Tolstoi shows that a materialistic focus can destroy ability to make moral distinctions, Chaucer suggests a subtler temptation. We may seem to know what is right and wrong, but be wholly blind to the very weaknesses in ourselves which we condemn in others. Preoccupation with things of this world blunts our moral sense; we can continue to say the right words long after they have ceased to have any real meaning in our own life. If Chaucer's point is no less clear than Tolstoi's, he takes advantage of the form of his presentation to reinforce it. The general condemnation of avarice and gluttony, which seems to constitute the main theme of this story, is too conventional to be very memorable. What we will never forget, once we have read this tale, is the brisk dispatch with which the Pardoner—his words of exhortation against covetousness still echoing—begins to exploit spiritual wares. The two poems with which we conclude this lesson were written by contemporaries of each other. Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792- 1822) and William Wordsworth (1770-1850), both of the English Romantic school, felt strongly the corrosive effects of the materialism which seemed to them to be blighting the civilization of the early nineteenth century. Since their poems are short enough to be reprinted in their entirety, we can discuss them in detail. Shelley's "Ozymandias" takes the Greek name of the Egyptian ruler, Rameses [I (1292-1225 B. C.), one of the pyramid builders. The decaying statue here described was reputed to be the largest in Egypt. The text of the poem is as follows: I met a traveler from an antique land Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand, Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown, And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command, Tell that its sculptor well those passions read Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things, The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed: And on the pedestal these words appear: "My name is Ozymandias, king of kings: "Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!" Nothing beside remains. Round the decay Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare The lone and level sands stretch far away. We see immediately that this is a poem of contrasts which build to the climax of line eleven and prepare us for the ironic surprise of line twelve. (Perhaps it is worth mentioning at this time that the word "surprise" originally meant to get what you deserve but do not expect). Note how effective the short, unarguable, three-word sentence of line twelve is at this point in the poem. Note also how the flowing LESSON DEPARTMENT alliteration of '"'boundless and bare," "lone and level" have just the right tone of unconcern to conclude the entire idea. The key word is "'despair.'"' It carries the arrogance of the king—yet effectively puts over the universal lesson: this, too, shall pass away. To the conclusions of Tolstoi and Chaucer, Shelley adds another. Not only are the things of this world inevitably subject to decay, but the attitudes, which a this-worldly approach fosters, are similarly short-lived and unsubstantial. The fact that sand is obviously the foundation for this monument takes on added meaning in the light of the scriptural use of sand as a symbol of instability. One final note may help in reading this poem. "The hand" that mocks Ozymandias is that of the sculptor; the "heart" that fed his passions is Ozymandias' own. In "The World Is Too Much With Us," Wordsworth gives additional insight into the problem of materialism: The world is too much with us; late and soon, Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers; Little we see in nature that is ours; We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon! The sea that bares her bosom to the moon! The winds that will be howling at all hours, And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers; For this, for everything, we are out of tune; It moves us not.—Great God! I'd rather be A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn; 869 NOVEMBER 1964 So might I anding on thi ence of a right One, but IndifferPleasant ea 4. Ave glimpses that would make ference lS_ wholly Static, T me less forlorn: Poem tries to mak S See that inave sight of Proteus rising from difference May be the Subtlest_ the sea; and most "forlorn" f material Or hear old Sriton blow his temptations For Chanical ac Wreathed horn,:.; Ivity js ly a Parody of life. Yr dai] ti I This famous Sonnet is an ex. Our da ¥ rou may be Simply cellent example of sg The first ght lines e. Brings us ful] circle Istoi or Chau- 'S Poe Cer; neither jg t the bloateq ego esson that a eee — — — Eee et oa fee ae akes place jn the mat al world Spending" des Tibes the Preoccy oo rth j ayin that until) Pation of Ost of our days pre cisely. The r ffers, can we trans nd j and make he hie Ae sianegee €arth a Steppin "Stone ¢ heaven of the nature Which Surrounds y QUESTIONS FOR Discussion > The vehemence of Wor SWorth 1. How giving in to one form of answer to Wha appears to be Materialis affect qj our attitudes? Minor p Oblem jg Particularly ef- 2. The irdoner did not 5 em to be ective, Tt Shockin © realize aWare his in resistency, Do you that we m have él enerateq > — We "efuse or fail to See our own. Weaknesseg' far that Our difficulty S no longer he king in Shelley' Poem was 4 substity 10n of the Material fo vercome by Pride. At is the dig. He Spiritual] e even have ee ween pride 4nd self-re.. Spec Ost all gj ificant relationship to 4. To what extent is spirity a he ma erial world. A ong focus €ss_ dependent harmony jn at least ac nowledge the existearth] concerns? 870 SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government. Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community For Fourth Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To point out that the functioning of the Priesthood In the mind of God there is no such ing as dividing spiritual from temoral, or temporal from spiritual; for ey are one in the Lord We cannot talk about spiritual ings without connecting with them aporal things, neither can we talk pout temporal things without conacting spiritual things with them. Hey are inseparably, connected (Dispurses of Brigham Young, page 13). Wherefore, verily I say unto you at all things unto me are spiritual, d not at any time have I given unto ou a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I _ created. Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unte himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no temporai commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments arc spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual (D&C 29:34, 35). The term community is a wellaccepted social science designation for the actions, interests, and experiences of a related group of people. As the title of this lesinvolves the total of human experience. Son suggests, we want to look at the application of the teachings of the Church in the daily experiences of its members. We want to observe the effectiveness of the organization in producing the well-balanced life of its members. As has been stated before, the organizational pattern of the Church comes from God. The applications and functions. Of the organization are: subject to the limitations of human beings striving for perfection. SOCIAL PROBLEMS ARE CONTINUOUS In the early history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, the members were confronted constantly with the physical problems of survival. Food, shelter, even a place to reside, were constant challenges. The pioneers endured all manner of suffering and, in the end, founded and developed a remarkable community in a very antagonistic environment. 871 NOVEMBER 1964 Today, we are still struggling with the economics of life; but also we are faced with intensified serious social problems. Many of these problems have always existed, but today there are new ones, and both the new and the old have been intensified. In the gospel of Jesus Christ, we have the direct influence of the Creator expressed in the instruction, organization, and the incentive of perfection to assist us in effectively meeting all of the problems of life. We need to apply what we know in every phase of our experience. THE IMPORTANCE OF APPLICATION In modern warfare, no effort is spared in teaching the personnel every technique in the execution of war activities. As an example, consider the air-borne troopers. On the ground they are given every possible experience in the performance of their duties. They are drilled in all maneuvers that they are expected to execute upon landing. They are given all the training possible on the ground about successful parachute jumping. Finally, they must go into the air and actually jump from the plane to test the value and effectiveness of their ground training. There can be no mistakes in this action; they must pull the cord at the right moment so that their parachute will open and carry them safely to the ground. The importance of this example is that all the knowledge in the world will not bring the paratrooper safely to the earth without the application of his instructions. He must do something, in this case, pull the cord that releases his parachute. 872 We must do something. The gospel impels us to action. The influence of the divine constantly challenges us to discover, learn, and apply truth to the solution of the problems of life. As President Brigham Young has pointed _ out, one cannot separate the spiritual from the temporal, we must apply the principles of the gospel to every undertaking in life. A MAJOR QUORUM OBJECTIVE One of the major objectives of the Priesthood quorum is "'to care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families" (1964 Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 19). This is an inclusive objective. No part of the well-developed personality is neglected. But to accomplish this, the Priesthood activity must be extended beyond the study class on Sunday morning, or the filling of an occasional Priesthood assignment. Our religion is a full way of life. It requires a constant effort on our part to assist in overcoming the problems common to mankind. The Lord will do nothing for us that we can do for ourselves. His intelligence and wisdom are available to enlighten our minds when making a decision, if we properly seek them. CREATING A GOOD ENVIRONMENT To fulfill the above stated objective, the Priesthood members must take an interest in developing a healthful atmosphere and environment in the community in which they live. Let us look at the possibilities they have in the development of a good community. We will make our examination under the following head- ings: (1) Morality (2) Law and Order (3) Health and Sanitation (4) Education. Wherever the Church is organized, the Priesthood is present. There may be only a few elders or, in the well-developed stake, there may be many quorums of Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood holders. However few there may be, by being united among themselves and with the help of the Lord, there is no limit to the amount of good that can be accomplished. (We must remember that Jesus was very much alone, so far as man is concerned, when he started his mission.) The larger the group of Priesthood bearers, the greater the influence they can exert upon the social climate and environmental conditions of their community. (1) Morality. Elder James E. Talmage said, 'Religion without morality, professions of godliness without charity, Church-membership without adequate responsibility as to individual conduct in daily life, are but as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals" (The Articles of Faith, page 429). Moral is "'characterized by excellence in what pertains to practice or conduct; right or proper; dealing or concerned with establishing principles of right and wrong in behavior' (Webster's Dictionary). 'True virtue is recognizing the right and the wrong and choosing the right. Morality is involved in all the decisions we make where right and wrong are involved. The meaning of right is established by the values of the group. As a Church, we have had revealed the principles of life and salvation as set forth by the CreLESSON DEPARTMENT ator himself, and we have established our value system on truth as revealed by the divine influence. From these values, our standard of morality has been developed. It is a single standard expecting the same high performance of all members. The moral standard of the Church encourages honesty, honor, integrity, chastity, and all things that would produce good conduct and high standards of behavior in all human relations. The members of the Priesthood quorums should be the leaders in the development of, and the maintenance of these values in their contacts with their own families and with every member of the community. There is no immoral act that does not have a negative influence upon the actor. There are those who attempt to justify and excuse their deviation from the moral standard on the basis of a "peculiar situation" or a "current philosophy" among men. Any excuse is a rationalization and has its weakening effect upon character. Priesthood quorums can be a major factor in strengthening and supporting the moral values of the Church. (2) Health and Sanitation. Every Priesthood quorum should be interested in the conditions of sanitation and health in their community. There is good evidence to support the statement that as sewer systems have been developed in cities, communicable diseases have decreased. A contaminated water supply could be the source of infection for other life-taking diseases. Science has provided immunization for many diseases, among 873 NOVEMBER 1964 them some of the most crippling known to man. Recently a very earnest and sincere effort was made to immunize everyone in a state of the United States against one of these cripples. This could have been a classic example of the Priesthood quorum's interest. In the welfare of its members and their families, by encouraging, providing transportation, and in other ways seeing to it that this drive was one hundred per cent successful. Every effort to improve the health conditions of the community we live in should be a concern of the Priesthood quorums. (3) Law and Order. The safety of loved ones and the security of property are largely dependent upon the attitude of the members of the community toward law and order. Respect for the rights of others is first learned in the home.. Then the expressions of neighbors and friends become important factors in developing. Attitudes of respect for law and order. The quorum members should be concerned about developing a sense of dedication to law and order in each member. Many people refuse to report law breakers because in doing so they may have to appear-in court. This takes time, they say, and is very inconvenient. Until the breaking of the law affects them direetly, they do litile about. It. Usually what they do then is too late. A part of the morality of our religion is honesty and the responsibility for maintenance and observance of law and order. The maintenance of law and order is the personal obligation of every citizen. To have such an attitude 874 in a community would be the most effective insurance against delinquency and crime. (4). Education. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has, from its organization, been directly and positively active in the education of its members, not only for the children, but for every member of the Church. Dr. Widtsoe pointed out that "Man is more than animal. A man holding the Priesthood can live up to his high calling only by exercising his mind, with all his might, and thereby increasing daily his intellectual vigor" (Priesthood and Church Government, page 57). There is a rich program of education in the organization of the Church. But this is not enough. If there is any hope for man to become as God, he will have to know all things. This is. A continuous task. The Church has organized schools. Teaching all of the sciences and encouraging the membership to become proficient in various specializations and professions. As long as a person is as studious in spiritual matters as in the secular fields; there need be no-conflict. Education, together with spiritual development, can be a more. Effective weapon against unemployment, disease, war, or any of society's basic ills. The intellectual development of quorum members has equal claim on quorum leadership with spiritual and temporal. Welfare. What is really needed is for the Church members to see all human activity in the light of divine law. Every daily act has a bearing on perfection. The design of the Creator for the perfection of mankind unfolds in the revelations of LESSON DEPARTMENT the divine will expressed nN earth 4S in the hea NS must call Church 8Overn t. The basic forth the divine ch teristics of function f Church ZOv nment IS ma in €rcoming Selfishness "to bring to Pass th ™mortality steed, and h te, and M Control]- and eterna] life of man" (Mose ng the appetites, 'sciplining the 1:39), nd, an In stir § man With There are many areas of hyver-ending thirst foy and quest Man relations that need the at. Know] dge. Tention of th Organized effort of men holding the Priesthood of THOUGHTS Fop DISCUSsion Go They Include: the developLl. Does divine Jay refer Only to ment of a Constructive youth proal ee bl -,: Te socia Problems © respongjgam th t will Ip avoid = bility of the rch °T8anization? Problems of de quency; the de Ces the €sponsibi]it Of the velopment of an NVironme t that quo or the Ifare of its Members Will reduce the azards of Menta] pala © the problems of ommunity €alth; the expression of a great. Ite!.; €r interest in the fatherless and — 4. What is the rest of true virtue? ': 5. Is observance of the law ag Part the widow; ynamic Program nN of the 80spel of Christ? Preparation for and in ¢ € car Of old ag; and Many others The Wel] balanced life Can come Doctrine and Covenants Sections out of th SUCCegsfy] UNCtioning 29: 58 & Widtsoe, Joh Pp esthood and Or the nesthood through _* hurch Govern nt, Chapter § quorum Sanizations nd operTalmage, Ja r ation. Christ', 80vernment on It to and fro Handle it wit With loving tende Of Memories 875 | ERCP 876 CHRISTMAS We Have Christmas Music in All Categories: PIANO MUSIC IN BOOKS ORGAN MUSIC. INSTRUMENTAL SOLOS AND #4CANTATAS AND CHORAL MUSIC. PLEASE INDICATE WHAT CATEGORY YOU DESIRE AND WE WILL SEND A Use this advertisement as your DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 EAST lst SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 Name iinieccececeecccccee ceveeteetteteeeeees zs, "wo - ay 2 < @ N a oO: °o g Qa =: o | cS. > MUSIC AND SEPARATE SOLO FORM. DUETS. SELECTION ON APPROVAL. ' order blank DAYNES MUSIC 15 E. Ist SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Use this advertisement as your order blank SL LL LL LS A LS LT SL ATS SL SSN SND SHNRNED SONNE Ge GaN GENO GSE SIO SOI GOIN SANOREN MENON NNN OHNNEND NONE GOON WEIN SIRUER GER GROMORI ROOINEP. AUN Mem mallet MORIN anime meetin up tishte Weslenm femNION cluntlen Sta! GHOIIRE snutIID SUNN Se nine Sinem cite coun 'ition inetio Wen tittin soins First Grand Addition Leora Larsen Three thousand million People in the world. No, three thousand million People, and ONE I'm not sure they counted My new grandson. Hold Back This Autumn Linnie F. Robinson Hold back this autumn, Let the sun stand still For red ribbon streamers Are wild on the hill. Green leaves are paling Where gold ones thunder; Frost in a purple haze Rides to the plunder. Dark pines silhouette Solid walls of stone; While 1, lone disciple, Catch its smallest tone. Hold back this wonder, Call the people in; Autumn is a tableau, And staged to the brim. Brief Hour Dorothy J. Roberts For a little season now Between the summer and the chill, A brief perfection permeates The valley and the hill. It rests upon the dewy rose And tints the waning day; Greet it with an open heart — Perfection cannot stay. dp ures of the Relief Societ Genera] Pregj dents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heay hain, 80ld - filleg with Ouble 8old-fi]] d dant. $8.75 Light Chain, Sold - filleg With double 8old-fi]| d Ndant. $6.00 Gold-filleg With double §0ld-filleg Pendant $6.75 '| Pins & Double Sold-filleg, Dolj Gold-filleg. Society hat J Must Be ather's Business? All Prices include federal] tax Salt Lake City, Utah 877 -———____ ane HAWAIIAN TOURS FEBRUARY ang MAY [Ys in the Islands, Z in the Outer Islands ays Another Season Christie Lund Coles It was @nother Season: N We walked h Together through bright leafin Was another day, tulle-soft a As blown 8lass: ¢ ile And it is welf e arth's beauty does not end; er Constancy is ultimately frien 878 _ lost. OUR ROOTS GO DEEP (Continued from page 825) If we had had a car that day we could have found her long before she fell in that mean old swimming pool up on Elmer Drive. "Jim made arrangements for today. He had a salesman pick me up this morning, and take a trial run. Honestly, he left the final say right up to me. I chose one big enough for the neighborhood to go places. I hope you like it." Vera smiled a longing sort of smile that asked for approval. "It is lovely, Vera." "Thanks, Marion, for the delicious pie. You are always doing nice things for me. I'! L just never forget when you took us all in when I was careless and set the house on fire. And you've helped me with sewing, and helped me with lessons I had to give, and just dozens of things. I wanted to have a car to share with you. If you ever need one, Marion, I want you to feel free to use it. You will, won't you?" Marion laughed happily, '"That is almost being too generous, Vera. But I am truly happy for you. There's nothing in the world like good friends and neighbors. My roots go deep, too, Vera." And Marion knew she really meant it. Design Vesta N. Fairbairn Mountain pines applique With needied featherstitch The cut-out shapes Of clouds upon the sky. HAWAIIAN TOUR Departure Date November 17 ROSE PARADE TOURS Departure Dates: December 26 December 27 HAWAIIAN TOUR February Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you.. Wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover —. $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders: Please include postage. According 'to table-listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and2 55 Zane 6.90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 ZL} 5) rr.80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. —_— 7 PESERET PREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 879 Githdey Cy One Hundred Five Mrs. Hilda Anderson Erickson Grantsville, Utah One Hundred Two Mrs. Katherine Ann Rogers Cluff Wenatchee, Washington Ninety-eight Mrs. Alice Potts Soule North Little Rock, Arkansas Ninety-seven Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas Shaw Los Angeles, California Ninety-six Mrs. Rosalia Marion Williams Beardail Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Adella Cowley Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Johanne Mariah Hegsted Rawson Whittier, California Ninety-five Mrs. Rhoda Ann McClellan Cardon EI Paso, Texas Mrs. Mary Robina Murphy Norris Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Sena Anderson Young Richfield, Utah Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Syracuse, Utah Mrs. Nettie Hunt Rencher Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Hannah Osborne Ashton, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. Laura J. Fredrickson Petersen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lily Purdy Bagley Sacramento, California 880 CHOI Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Sarah Lottie Phyllips Collett San Diego, California Mrs. Lavina Mae Winter Wood Fullerton, California Mrs. Susan Jane Wakefield Loveless Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Selma Steele Whittier, California Mrs. Susan Jane Duncan Clark Farmington, Utah Mrs. Lucy Anna Plank Sacramento, California Ninety-one Mrs. Sarah Brackett Foss Elliott Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elsie Eleanor Oliver Wilcox Bridgeport, Nebraska Mrs. Annie Wilcox Madsen Mount Pleasant, Utah Mrs. Sarah Walters Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Mildred Boshard Moore Los Angeles, California Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Ninety Mrs. Maria Greer Parkinson Darley Corning, California Mrs. Mamie Seegmiller St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Larsen Price Lakeview, Utah Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona« Mrs. Dolly R. Manire Hopkinsville, Kentucky Mrs. Lelia Olive Moon Potter North Farmington, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Ann Haight Esplin Shelley, Idaho For Relief Society Sisters Relief Society Literature Packet. Out_of the Best Books literature teaching materials. Packet includes eight beautifully reproduced pictures in color on stiff backing and a long play 33% 1 p. M. Record as an aid to teaching the literature course. Set $6.00 2 The Latter-day Prophets and the Doetrine and Covenants, Volume III, Seetions 77-106 by Roy W. Doxey The newest volume in the series is now off the press! These volumes examine the Doctrine and Covenants in light of interpretation by prophets, seers, and revelators from the time of Joseph Smith to the present. Volumes I, II, & Ill — $3.95 each 3 Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76 and Sections 78-87 by Roy W. Doxey A compilation of eight fabulous lectures by one of the LDS Church's foremost specialists on the Doctrine and Covenants. Here is a booklet that every Latier-day Saint will want to refer to again and again. 1 $1.00 The Doctrine and Covenants Speaks 5 by Roy W. Doxey Theology Picture Packet for 1964-65 A commentary on the Doctrine and Covenants that Pictures for use by teachers of the theology shows unusual insight and helps explain this scripture lessons that will prove invaluable. $1 00 for the layman. $5.95 Theology Kit for 1963-64. 10 cents postage still available... $1.00 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find money order.. COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY check I have an account, please charge for the it! 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 9 SS 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA above numbered items: ] 2 3 4 5 * SS —S=_ = ————— ——a— '<a a PPO cece. Cecensecenauccccceeaveeccucuussedececsusessmeumeuuuees C—O —————State Zip Residents of Utah please add 34%2% sales tax. Skillet (Popular 10" ba a fryer) with co > a Chicken — ver and | NYION spatula | - ($6.75 Value).. $3.75 Saute Pan andy 8' ($3.50 Value) ¥. Less Bow/ Offer - Rockfield, Wisconsin. 
