A The Cover: Frontispiece: -Art Layout: illustrations: Stnntl- 00. The Sea Alice Morrey Bailey | should hold you as my enemy, Remembering the smell of dust in rain, The hiss of drops in thirsty soil, the drain Of watersheds in-rivers to the sea, For | have fought as hill men always fight To keep the water on the land, the drouth With puny dams across the canyon's mouth, And tending furrows through the weary night. But | am lost in shoreless vastness, drowned In swirling blue, your ancient mystery Appeals in tongues to all not known in me, And | am mesmerized with rhythmic sound. Betrayed by fluid veins to seek your shores, |! Am no longer alien, | am yours. Palms and the Sea, Island of Maui, Hawaii Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Monterey Coast, California Photograph by Josef Muench Dick Scopes Mary Scopes As a proselyting missionary, I have had the opportunity of assisting to organize, and to work with Relief Societies in different towns in England and Wales. I wrote to my mother about this. She is president of Relief Society in my home ward. She sent me a year's subscription to the Magazine. This offered me _ adventure, spirituality; and education. Within the pages of the wonderful Magazine I found all this and more. The Magazine is a wonderful missionary tool, as well. —Elder Dale S. Call British Mission I thank my Heavenly Father for the warmth, sincerity, and variety of the Magazine. How true and wise are the editorials and the articles on points of doctrine. The lessons are beautifully written. The literature is superb — the best available. —Mrs. Nedra Zitelsberger Redondo Beach, California I feel that I must take a moment in spite of my undone work, and thank you for the "Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth, in the October Magazine. For sometime, although I have hated to admit it to myself or to anyone else, I have felt so bogged down with my housewifely tasks that I haven't known what to do. The article must have been written with me in mind! My biggest problem has been that I have so many failings, I get discouraged before I even start trying to change. Now I have a practical list of things I can do. I feel there may be hope for me after all. —Mrs. Mildred Martindale Rancho Cordova, California I have just read Sister Ellsworth's "A Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and I simply must pause to let you know that I think it is truly wonderful. Our Magazine representative said, in recommending the article to us, "I wish I had read it twenty years sooner, when I was rearing my children." Most of my own children are still being reared, and they should benefit much from my reading of this article. —WMrs. Catherine M. Jaggi Brigham City, Utah I love and appreciate the Magazine, and enjoy reading the stories and poems. I have been trying out some of the recipes, and they taste real good. I especially like the cover pictures of the Magazine and the frontispieces. I am impressed with each teacher's message. The Magazine is giving me a rich and wonderful education. —Dolly Sahadeo Corentyne, Berbice British Guiana I am so thrilled with all the wonderful articles in The Relief Society Magazine. As I am a young mother, the Magazine helps me in my home and in rearing our children. —JoAnn Slade Cedar City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine helps to strengthen my testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in his Church. The Magazine is filled with inspiring thoughts from wonderful leaders. The stories contain beautiful examples of right living. —Magree G. Schaerr Kanab, Utah 
the Relief Society — = FEBRUARY 1964 VOLUME 51 NUMBER 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
84 The Influence and Responsibility of Women Harold B. Lee 90 In Memoriam — President Levi Edgar Young 91 Lenore C. Gundersen Appointed to the General Board Fawn H. Sharp 111 Heart Fund Dollars Buy Life and Hope 112 National Children's Dental Health Week 92 Mama Lives in the Kitchen — Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke 100 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 1 Hazel M. Thomson 122 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Rosa Lee Lloyd 82 From Near and Far 107 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 108 Editorial: The Words That Women Write Vesta P. Crawford 110 Notes to the Field: Index for 1963 Relief Society Magazine Available Award Subscriptions Presented in April 129 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 160 Birthday Congratulations 114 A Valentine for My Husband Helen Hinckley Jones 116 Easy Valentine Cake Janet W. Breeze 117 Stretching the Food Budget — Part V — Wonders With Wheat Using Bulgur or Cracked Wheat Marion Bennion 121 Letty S. Mickelson Makes Appliqued Quilts for Relief Society Bazaars 0 ~mm me 136 Theology — The Book of Revelation Roy W. Doxey 142 Visiting Teacher Message — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me" Christine H. Robinson 144 Work Meeting — Planning Family Recreation Virginia F. Cutler 146 Literature — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer Briant S. Jacobs 152 Social Science — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church Ariel S. Ballif 81 Sonnet to the Sea — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey White Miracle, by Linnie F. Robinson, 89; Memories on a Winter Night, by Ida Elaine James, 99; Book Interest, by Pearle M. Olsen, 106; Womanhood, by Mary Brown, 111; Did the Groundhog See His Shadow? By Evalyn M. Sandberg, 112; Remembering, by Enola Chamberlin, 113; Frozen Splendor, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 141. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and-new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be retumed unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only.. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

The Influence and Responsibility of Women Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963.] From the spirit of the opening' prayer, I found myself with something that seems to be in harmony with my thinking, with reference to the tremendous scope of responsibility and influence that womanhood or women in the Church might render, first to themselves as individuals, then to their husbands, as supports to their children, and as_ teachers and exemplars to the Church. It was with this thought in mind that our beloved late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said: Youth of the Church are hungry for the words of the Lord. Teachers, be sure you are prepared to feed them the bread of life which is the teachings of Jesus Christ. If they live up to the teachings they will have more happiness than they have. Ever dreamed of. Sometimes we get a notion that we have to _ entertain people to get them to come to Church. Youth, as well as older people, we know, are hungry for the words of the Lord. It is wonderful that we come to realize that within the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ and from the teachings of our Church leaders in this dispensation, may be found the answer to every question and a solution to every problem essential to the social, the temporal, and the spiritual welfare of human beings, all of 84 whom, of course, are the children of our Heavenly Father. I read somewhere a statement from the president of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana that gave me some thought. He said: "The fulness of life is not to be determined by its length but by its breadth times its depth." And, as I read further, what he meant were three things that determine the fulness of life: First, good health is essential; second, broad scholastic training. When I read that I remembered what the late humorist Will Rogers said: 'The most educated person in the world is an ignorant man when you get him off the subject in which he is educated." And, third, the depth — deep spirituality. Hence, the fulness of life is determined by good health, broad scholastic training, and deep spirituality. Wouldn't it be wonderful for a mother to hear her teenage son say, when mother sits down to read a book on the art of homemaking, "Mother, what are you reading?"' And she answers, "I am reading about the art of homemaking." And to have the son say, "I couldn't think of anyone who needs it less."" Wouldn't you like to have your son say that to you? Or, to have your family say on some Christmas Eve when moment. But Joseph, discovering my anxiety, Said, "Never mind, Mother. I believe that every individual in the Church has just as much right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and the understanding from God which that spirit of revelation gives him for his own good, as the bishop has to enable him to preside over the ward. Every man has the privilege to exercise these gifts and these privileges in the conduct of his own affairs, bringing up his children in the way they should go, and in the management of his farm, his flocks, his herds, and in the management of his business, if he has business of other kinds to do; it is his right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and of inspiration to do the right thing, to be wise and prudent, just and good in everything that he does. I know that this is a true principle, and I know that I know it, too; and that is the thing I would like Latterday Saints to know... (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 34-35). It has sometimes been sorrowful to see respected members of the Church, men and women who should know better, to allow themselves to become the tools of seductive spirits. Such men, seem, for the time at least, to lose sight of the fact that the Lord has established on earth, the Priesthood in its fullness; and that by direct revelation and commandment from heaven; that he has instituted an order or government that is beyond the capacity, and that is superior to the wisdom and understanding and learning of man, so far, indeed, that it seems impossible for the human mind, unaided by the Spirit of God to comprehend the beauties, powers, and character of the Holy Priesthood... (Ibid., pp. 40-41). It is not the business of any individual to rise up as a revelator, as a prophet, as a seer, as an inspired man, to give revelation for the guidance of the Church, or to assume to dictate, to the presiding authorities of the Church in any part of the world, much less, in the midst of Zion where the organizations of the Priesthood THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN are about perfect, where everything is complete, even to the organization of a branch.... The moment an individuai rises up, assuming the right to control and to dictate, or to sit in judgment on his brethren, especially upon those who preside, he should be promptly checked, or discord, division and confusion will be the result. Every man and woman in this Church should know better than to yield to such a spirit; and the moment that such a feeling presents itself to them they should rebuke it as it is in direct antagonism to the order of the Priesthood and to the spirit and genius of this work. We can accept nothing as authority but that which comes directly through the appointed channel, the constituted organizations of the Priesthood which is the channel that God has appointed through which to make known his mind and will to the world (Ibid., pp. 41-42). I wish we could understand that principle, for among us are those who are spreading false doctrine, setting themselves up as authority and to receive revelations. Presumably, when you leave this conference or your stake conference, you will find plastered on your windshield literature from these apostate groups intended to confuse. You sisters must be on guard lest you, in an unguarded moment, fall prey to those sophistries. Parents, of course, have a tremendous responsibility. All that the Church may do can be considered only as secondary to the great responsibility of parenthood. Someone has said: '"Parents wonder why the streams are bitter, when they, themselves, have poisoned the fountain." When I say that, I am thinking of modesty, of honesty. Dr. Sarnoff said: "The happiest people I 87 FEBRUARY 1964 have known have not been the people of great worldly wealth, achievements, or accomplishments. They have been the simple people who are happily married, enjoying good health, and enjoying good family life." I remember some while ago riding on a subway in lower Manhattan. There was a poster that showed a _ beautiful little girl, maybe six or seven, looking up into the face of a young father. They were both of them just laughing their hearts out. She apparently had told him something, and he was enjoying it, and it wasn't advertising anything. And as I looked at that happy picture, my eyes wandered down below where it asked: "Are you too old to laugh at kid stuff?' Well, the answer was obvious. If you are, then don't try to teach children. And then the poster declared: "Where family life ends, child delinquency begins." It has been well said that the richest. Soil, if uncultivated, produces the rankest weeds. Elder Adam S. Bennion told us about a survey that he made over years of experience with honor students at various graduation exercises, the valedictorians. And, to his amazement, he found that in the great majority of cases, those who had been thus honored, were the sons and daughters of widowed mothers, in large part. That achievement in no small part is due to the great influence of wonderful mothers. I came across a statistical study that was made of happy marriages and divorces, where it was found that the following factors have a very high statistical correlation with successful marriages. Note these: first, age twenty or more for both partners at the time of marriage; second, first date alone for both partners occurred in the late teens; third, courtship for at least nine months; fourth, no pre-marital petting or sexual relations; fifth, religious and_ sex instructions from parents and teachers; sixth, church membership and attendance at least three times a month. Now this was made by someone other than members of the Church. Factors that had high statistical correlation with divorce were: first, teenage marrlages; second, early dating alone, often as early as thirteen years; third, little or no religious instruction in the home or poor church attendance; fourth, most sex instruction from friends; fifth, heavy petting and sexual relations before marriage, often with persons other than the one whom they later married (a _ pretty shaky foundation on which to found a home). I heard a lovely mother, she may be here, who quoted this beautiful verse: Father, between Thy strong hands, Thou hast bent The clay but roughly into shape, and lent To me the task of smoothing where I may And fashioning to a gentler form Thy clay — To see some hidden beauty Thou hadst planned, Slowly revealed beneath my laboring hand; Sometime to help a twisted thing to grow More straight; this is full recompense, and so I give Thee but the praise that Thou wouldst ask — Firm hand and high heart for the further task. —Dorothy Littlewort (Quoted from Teaching As the Direction of Activities, by John T. Wahlquist, page 11.) In a letter written from Liberty Jail, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote to the saints: -You know, brethren, that a very large ship is benefited very much by a very small helm in time of a storm by being kept workwise with the wind and the waves. Therefore, dearly beTHE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN loved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our power and then may we stand still with the utmost assurance to see the salvation of God, for his arm shall be revealed. This I pray we may all do, exerting all that lies within our powers to raise the standard and to maintain the high richness of life which the Church and gospel teachings will offer to our children and our people, and then with full assurance that God and agencies beyond our sight will stand by us to aid and to augment our humble efforts. That this may be so, I pray humbly in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. RAs. BAe aed Linnie F. Robinson These are the days one never thinks will come, These days beyond the harvest, days of death; As winter spreads its frost upon the ground It makes a crystal beauty of its breath, And sends a silence, louder than the hour, Into the soul, speaking of time and change. It lays a hand upon the lips of man And stills the song upon the summer range. Yet, in the filigree of white on bough, Turning these slender trees to fragile lace, | long to hold back time before my face. Oh, let no sudden blast break here With black-browed fury to change this world And carry off this frosted miracle. 89 IN MEMORIAM President Lew Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy February 2, 1874 — December 13, 1963 PRESIDENT Levi Edgar Young, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, died December 13, 1963. Well loved and much respected, President Young had been a member of the Council since 1910, carrying forward a legacy of service received from his faithful forebears. Both his father, Seymour B. Young, a noted physician, and his_ grandfather, Joseph Young, a brother of President Brigham Young, lived to be senior presidents of the First Council of Seventy. Throughout his life President Young was devoted to scholarship and education. He was graduated from the University of Utah in 1895, and immediately began a teaching career that continued, alternately with mission calls, for most of his life. He served as professor of English at the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City, and later, while attending Harvard University, he became deeply interested in history and was a noted scholar and authority, particularly in the field of western history. He taught history at the University of Utah for forty years. He was president of the Utah State Historical Society for many years, and in recognition of his contributions to research, and writing and teaching of history, he was given the 90 signal honor of membership in the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a distinction usually reserved for natural scientists. He labored as a missionary in Germany, and in 1902 was named President of the Swiss Mission, becoming one of the youngest mission presidents to serve in the Church. From 1922 to 1934 he was President of the Temple Square Mission and for three years he presided over the New England Mission. The General Board and members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy and _sisterly love to President Young's family — his wife Valeria Brinton Young, and his three daughters: Harriet Y. Kline, Jane Y. Rawson, and Eleanor Y. Van Orden, and to the grandchildren and other relatives and friends. President Young has left a resplendent heritage of faith and good works to his family and to the Church. Second Prize-winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Lael J. Littke i hadn't noticed that Mama was so abused at our house until Linda told me about it. She said she hadn't even realized it until the day the Relief Society visiting teachers came and four-year-old Cissie let them in. Sister Clayton asked if Mama was home, and Cissie, pointing with a plump finger, said, "She's in there," and then added, "Mama lives in the kitchen." I was there, but I wouldn't have thought a thing about it, which, Linda said later, just went to show how much I took Mama for granted, but then, what could you expect from a ten-year-old? She asked. She was fifteen and could even conjugate a verb, so I figured that she must know what she was talking about. Linda called a conference with Papa that very night while Mama was putting Cissie to bed. She gave a dramatic re-enactment of the scene, with me acting as Sister Clayton and asking, "Is your mother at home, Cissie?" Then 92 aa Mama Lives in the Kitchen Linda, as Cissie, pointed with an elegant flourish of her arm which I didn't recall at all and said, "She's in there—Mama lives in the kitchen," in a deep, hoarse voice that didn't sound much like Cissie. Papa was impressed. "Cissie ought to go on the stage," he said. Linda ignored him. "There it is," she said, "spoken in the unvarnished innocence of youth." "I wonder if that's as unblemished as untarnished innocence," said Papa. Sometimes Papa talked very funny. "It's a shame," continued Linda. '"Mama never gets out of that kitchen." "Well, now," said Papa, scratching his head. "I have to dispute that point. I do recollect one time we let her out to go have a tooth pulled." Linda sighed. "Oh, Papa," she said, "be serious. Of course she gets out for shopping and church and things like that, but, figura- FEBRUARY 1964 and wear pretty clothes and meet people. Once a journalist, always a journalist, you know. The smell of printer's ink gets into your blood." "Sounds mighty unhealthy," commented Papa. Linda had a faraway look in her eyes. '"Mama used to write columns about brides and weddings, and now she lives in the kitchen and washes dishes. What a comedown!" "Tell you what I'll do," said Papa. "I'll talk to Mama and we'll see how she feels about it. T'll tell you the verdict in a few days." Linda pestered Papa every day to find out how things were going. She said she was a woman like Mama, and she knew she would feel like a caged lioness if she were in Mama's place with no outside life like school or a job. In my mind's eye I pictured Mama pacing back and forth from room to room with a wild look in her eyes like the animals at the zoo. It made me feel a little lost and lonely to think Mama was so unhappy because she had to stay home and take care of us. She didn't seem unhappy. She sang cheerful little songs as she went about her work. Linda said that was just to keep her spirits up. ONE morning after breakfast Papa stood up. "Children," he said, "and Linda," he added, ''unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, I would like to make an announcement. Mama is going back to work — the smell of 94 printer's ink is in her blood" — he looked at Linda who nodded knowingly — 'and her old boss is putting her back on the payroll next week to replace a girl who is giving it all up to become a housewife." ""Mama, that's wonderful," said Linda. "This will give you a chance to fulfill yourself." "Back to the glamor and excitement of the newspaper trade," said Mama. "'Heigh ho and away I go. Printer's ink, here I come." Mama talked funny sometimes, too. "And Ill take over here at home," said Linda. "The first week you are not to set foot in the kitchen except to eat breakfast." "Agreed," said Mama. Cissie, who was pouring a little mountain of salt from the shaker, looked up. "Is Linda going to be the Mama?" she asked. "No," said Mama, "'I'll still be the Mama." "You can't be the Mama if you're not here," said Cissie. "T'll be home after work." "That's not the same," said Cissie. 'Linda will be the Mama." Cissie even called Linda "Mama" the first day after Mama went to work. It was like playing house and Linda enjoyed playing her part. She scarcely listened to the instructions Mama gave her and wouldn't even let Mama do the week's grocery shopping on Saturday. She said we would do it on Monday. Papa's only instructions were that it would not be fair to snitch from the year's supply of food that Mama had put away. He gave Linda the money for the week and said it would have to buy everything we would need. After Mama and Papa left, Linda said we would go right out and do the marketing. Then we would do the housework and go to Lacoola Plunge for a swim. Tuincs didn't work out quite as planned. It took us much longer than we expected to do the shopping, mainly because we went to a clothing store first, and all bought new swimming suits. Linda said there was more money than we would need for groceries, and Mama said we could budget the money however we wanted. Food was more expensive than we had expected, though, and when we got everything totaled up, we found we had to take back a carton of popsicles and two boxes of Cracker Jack because we didn't have quite enough money. When we got home Linda decided to make a cake before we washed the breakfast dishes and cleaned the house. She had forgotten to buy vanilla so she sent Cissie and me to borrow a teaspoon from Mrs. Blazer next door. We walked carefully on the way home, but we spilled the vanilla, and Linda said only a pair of dunces would go borrow a teaspoon of vanilla in a teaspoon. I said how else would we know how much to borrow and she said we could have measured it and poured it into a cup. She said you really couldn't expect too much from children. She put the cake in the oven without the MAMA LIVES IN THE KITCHEN vanilla, and we waited anxiously for it to bake. Linda peeked inside the oven every few minutes to see how it was progressing. When she finally took it out, it was high on one side and squashed down on the other. Linda said that was Cissie's and my fault for spilling the vanilla, but never mind because she would build it up with frosting. At dinner Mama and Papa ate their pieces without looking up at all, but Cissie and I couldn't eat ours. It tasted like a soggy sponge. Linda said we couldn't leave the table until we ate every last crumb, and Cissie cried and said she didn't want Linda to be the Mama any more. She said she would just pretend she was an orphan girl while Mama was at work. The next day we forgot about Primary, and I ruined my perfect attendance record. Linda said it wouldn't have done any good to remember because she couldn't drive the car to take us there. I said we could have ridden with Mrs. Blazer who teaches Cissie's class, but Linda looked angry and said I couldn't expect her to think of everything, could I? On Wednesday Cissie fell off the swing and came into the house with blood all over her face from a cut on her head. Linda said the sight of blood made her want to faint. I wanted to faint, too, but I didn't know quite how to go about it, so I cleaned Cissie up and poured half a bottle of Mercurochrome over the cut. It ran all down Cissie's face and neck and looked worse than the 05 FEBRUARY 1964 blood. Cissie spent the rest of the afternoon sitting on the front porch with Mama's umbrella over her head. When Mama came home she said a tiger had bitten her under the weeping willow tree and Mama had better stay home to protect her. THatT night we didn't have supper until late because Linda put the roast in the oven just fifteen minutes before Mama and Papa came home. She said she guessed it took a while to catch on to these things. Mama didn't say anything. She just stretched like a lady of leisure and said she thought she would read her new Relief Society Magazine and go to bed. On Thursday Linda and I spent most of the day keeping track of Cissie. She kept running away because she said Linda was too bossy, and it wasn't any fun to be home when Mama wasn't there. For dinner that night we had leftovers from the refrigerator because all our grocery money was gone and we were out of meat. On Friday Linda said we would hurry and clean up the house and then go for a swim at Lacoola Plunge if Cissie would break open her piggie bank and lend us the money, since neither Linda nor I had a cent in our banks. On second thought, she said, we would go swimming first and then come back and work. The only trouble was that we met some of our friends and stayed until afternoon. When we did get home, 96 Linda told us we'd all have to work hard if we were to get finished before 5:30. Mama's usually cheerful, clean kitchen was a shambles because we had left the dishes for two days and had not scrubbed the floor all week. Soiled clothes that we hadn't bothered to take to the laundry room were stacked up by the back door. Cissie was assigned to try to scrub the floor. She said she didn't have to since Linda wasn't the Mama and she didn't have to do what she said. Linda told her if she would cooperate we would all go down to the drugstore and have a soda, if Cissie would take a little more money from her piggy bank. We decided to go get the sodas first to give us energy for our work. By the time we got back it was nearly 3:00 p. M. Linda hurried to start the washing and _ ironing after telling me to cook some rice. She said since we didn't have any meat we could just have rice and pretend we were Chinese. I put a pan of water on to boil and poured in some rice. I poured in the whole package, but that didn't look like enough to feed five people, so I poured in another box. That filled the pan nicely. Cissie got a pail of water and swished the mop around in it for awhile just to hear it splash, then sloshed a lot of water on the floor and pushed it around with the mop. Suddenly I heard Linda scream. On my way to the laundry room I slipped and fell on the flooded floor. Cissie scolded me for getting her clean floor dirty. In the laundry room Linda was trying to push oceans of suds back into the washing machine. "T guess I used too much detergent,' she gasped. We were surveying the disaster helplessly when we both smelled scorching cloth. Linda ran to the ironing board and snatched up the hot iron she had been using, but not soon enough. There was a large dark brown scorch mark on one of Papa's best white shirts. "What next?' wailed Linda. After unplugging the iron, she picked up the shirt and threw it into the surging suds which by now were foaming down the sides and all over the floor. CIssIz appeared at the door. "There's something all over the stove," she announced. The "something" was rice. Rice bubbled up from the pan and rice flowed down onto the stove just like the detergent flowed from the washing machine. There was enough rice to feed half of China. It took us an hour to clean up the mess. It took another hour to wash the dishes and make Mama's kitchen look presentable. Cissie had just enough money left in her piggy bank to buy five TV dinners.. To replace the rice which we couldn't face eating after we had cleaned the stove. Papa didn't like TV dinners, but he ate his without a word. Linda just picked at hers. After the rest of us were through, she cleared her throat. MAMA LIVES IN THE KITCHEN "Mother," she said, and paused. Her face was getting a little red and she looked as if she might cry. ""Mama," she blurted, "I can't take over your job here at home. I don't know how to be an economist, a psychologist, a chauffeur, an efficiency expert, a nurse, a chef, a ray of sunshine, and I don't know what all."' She threw up her hands in despair. Mama smiled. "You don't learn it all at once, dear," she said. ''It takes practice, just like any other job." "T'm a failure," Linda said with a single tear slippery-sliding down her cheek. "I didn't do one thing right all week." "She did, too, Mama," I said, feeling that a word should be said in her defense. "She did some things right." I couldn't think of any examples at the moment. L. NpA wiped the tear from her cheek and went on. "I thought it didn't take much intelligence to run a home and that you'd be happier working at something challenging like Corrine Blake's mother."' "Corrine Blake's mother works because she is a widow and has to," said Mama. "I don't have to and I don't want to because I find my job as a housewife and mother to be as challenging and fulfiling and rewarding as any outside job could ever be, and my Church work is stimulating, too. My rewards come all the time, as when my lovely daughters are so sweet and unselfish 97 FEBRUARY 1964 that they are willing to tend the house so I can go out to work because they think it will make me happier." "I'm sorry I made you go to work," said Linda. "You didn't," said Mama. "Papa told me you'd like a try at running the house and my old boss needed someone to fill in just until the new girl came. I think you gained quite a respect for the role of a housewife, and I enjoyed a few days change, so everything worked out fine. And I'm back to stay." "Really?" said Linda. More job?" "No more job. The smell of printer's ink can't even begin to compete with the aroma of cookies baking." Cissie had been _ watching Mama quietly. '"'Are you going to be the Mama again?" she asked hopefully. Mama reached over and gathered Cissie into her lap. "I certainly am," she said. "I'm moving "No right back into my kitchen where I belong."' Cissie snuggled up to her. "And I'll be happy to move out and let an expert take over," said Linda. Papa laughed. "Bit off a little more than you could chew, you might say," he said. "That's the truth," Linda. "You're getting to be an adult," said Papa. ''We're proud of you. You've grown up a lot this week." Linda patted his _ hand. "Enough to see that if Mama wants to live in the kitchen, as Cissie says, things just couldn't be better." "Right," said Papa. "I've learned to leave well enough alone, you might say," said Linda. "You might say that," agreed Papa. We all laughed and the kitchen seemed bright and cheerful even though the sun was going down. Grinned Lar. JENSEN LITTKE was born and grew up on a farm in Mink Creek, Idaho, where her mother still lives. She was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University. "The Church has always been the center of my life," she writes, "and it has been my training ground, so to speak, in the literary arts, providing me with the opportunity to write programs, plays, road shows, readings, stories, and poems for use in the wards and stakes where I have lived. I also had the privilege of teaching the Relief Society literature lessons in Manhattan Ward for five years. "My only published manuscripts, other than some in my college literary magazine, have been one other story in The Relief Society Magazine and a short play in The Children's Friend. "We moved this past September to Monterey Park, California, from New York City, where we spent nine exciting years while my husband, George C. Littke, studied and taught at New York University. He is now Assistant Professor of Government at Los Angeles State College, and ward clerk in Monterey Park Ward. Our three-year-old daughter Lori is the joy of our lives. My greatest pleasures come from working in the Church, writing, and, of course, being a housewife and mother who enjoys 'living in the kitchen.'" 98 Don Knight BOULDER CREEK, COLORADO Ida Elaine James The white moon shines on the quiet snow-capped roofs, White are the drifts along the poplar trees; Deep in my heart are softly muffled hoofs Breaking the Snowy woodway's witcheries. The burdened branches loose a shapeless weight In silence where the cutter-tracks knife down The yielding snow—the rabbits perforate With bounding feet the wintry monotone. As far as the road leads, stillness and white abide, As down the heart's lane two in a cutter ride. 99 Understanding SELENA Baldwin stood by the side of the open grave in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. With her heart despairing, she felt a wave of deep, unreasoning resentment against the men, healthy and strong, who stood with shovels ready. How did the Lord decide who was to live and who was to die? Why, out of the entire camp, should she have lost the man she had planned to marry? It would not be long now, before the wagon train was ready to leave for the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. She and Belle must go on alone. 100 Chapter 1 Hazel M. Thomson Selena heard the dull thuds as the first shovelfuls of earth fell on the wooden box. She felt her sister's arm tighten around her as Belle said, ""Come, Selena. We can return when they have finished." "No," said Selena. "I will stay until it is done."' Her eyes were dry. She felt at that moment that she had cried all the tears she would ever have. Hadn't she, Selena Baldwin, accepted the gospel as soon as the missionaries had convinced her that it was the truth? She had accepted his word. Then why should he not bless her with this one thing she had wanted and prayed for harder than she had ever prayed before in her entire life? The grave was finished and rounded over to remind Selena afresh of the silent form within, so recently warm, loving and laughing at her side. Quietly the others withdrew, leaving only the men gathering up their tools and Belle and Selena. The shovels were all placed in the nearby wagon and most of the men climbed in. Still Selena could not bring herself to leave. One young man who had been helping walked past the two women to get a crowbar and pick. As he returned with them he paused and said kindly, "I'm right sorry, Ma'am." Selena looked at him dumbly, unable to answer. "Thank you, Sir," answered Belle. Selena, unable to respond to the compassion in the deep blue eyes of the man, turned away. As the men drove off toward the settlement, smaller now than it had been during those first years of its occupancy by the saints, still Selena stood woodenly by the grave. At last, as it was growing dark, Belle took her arm firmly. "Come, Selena," she said. "We must go now." Selena waited a long moment. Then she answered, 'Yes. We must go. From this day I do not do what I want. I do what I must." THE weeks to come dragged for Selena. She was anxious to be on YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING the trail and get the long trek underway. Winter Quarters had brought her the greatest sorrow of her life and she hated the place. "How much longer will it be, Belle?" she asked, as the month of June began. "They are waiting for some emigrants from England to join the wagon train. They left New York some days ago. As soon as they arrive we shall be on the way." "We have everything packed now, except the few things we need,"' Selena said. 'With you taking care of the wagon, getting the tires set and new shoes on the oxen, the packing isn't much of a job." "You know how it is with me," answered Belle. "I hate being cooped up in the house, though I must confess that one ox gave me a time getting the shoes on the back feet. I had to rope him and throw him down and tie him tight before I could get it done. I'd rather shoe a horse any day of the week!" With the arrival of the emigrants the time to leave drew near, and Selena spent many hours in the cemetery beside the grave. Belle tried, without avail, to get her sister to make her visits to the graveside short, knowing the deep depression that engulfed Selena after each prolonged stay. "Tl be awfully glad to get away from here," Belle said one morning after her sister had spent much of the night sobbing quietly into her pillow. "It's unhealthy 101 FEBRUARY 1964 for you to spend so much time in that cemetery." "T suppose you think it's easy for me to go out there every day," answered Selena. "No, honey, I don't. I know it isn't easy for you, and, since it isn't, why do it?" "Why do it? Belle! Sometimes I think you are completely without a heart. I loved him, Belle. Can't you understand that?" "Yes, Selena," answered Belle quietly. "I can understand it. Believe it or not, I can understand that you loved him." "Oh, Belle,' cried Selena, throwing her arms around her sister's neck. "'I didn't mean that. I'm just not myself these days." "That's just what I mean," Belle answered. "Why keep on torturing yourself? He wasn't worth—." Belle stopped. "You might as well say it!" Selena's voice rose to hysterical pitch. '"You never did like him! No wonder you want me to forget all about him. But I won't! I never will!" Selena's voice broke in a sob. She ran from the house, and Belle watched her as she hurried down the street in the direction of the cemetery. Tue last check of wagons had been taken. When the order came to get the wagons in place, that they were moving out that afternoon, Belle was not surprised. She did the last loading of their wagon and still Selena had not returned. Knowing well where Selena was, Belle yoked the oxen in place and figured to pick up 102 her sister as the wagon train moved out of town past the cemetery. A man on horseback rode up and introduced himself. "T'm Josiah Blodgett, Ma'am," he said, lifting his hat. "Is your husband about ready to start? I'm Captain of the ten you'll be traveling with. Better tell him we're about to move out." Belle mustered all the dignity she could. "I have no husband," she said. "I'm driving this outfit, and I'm ready as soon as my sister gets back." Josiah Blodgett exploded. "Gets back! You've only had months to get ready. Now we have to wait for your sister to get back!" Josiah was a small, wiry man who rode his horse as if he were part of it. Now he stood as tall in the stirrups as he could make himself. He looked at Belle through narrowed eyes. "Lon said there were a couple of females making this trip by themselves. I have the luck to draw the ten they are traveling in!" "You don't need to worry yourself about us, Brother Blodgett," said Belle, determinedly. "No! I don't need to worry about you. All I have to do is just your work and mine, too!" "You'll not be doing my work, Josiah Blodgett," said Belle, her temper rising. "I'll walk to the Great Salt Lake and pull this wagon myself before I'd accept one mite of help from you!" Josiah looked at Belle, sitting large and strong before him on the wagon seat. "And you just might be able to do it, at that," he muttered as he gathered his reins tight and started off. "Better get that sister and be ready," he called back. 'Don't start delaying us until we at least get out of town." SELENA knelt on the clods of sun-baked earth for a long time. Then a cloud of dust arose and she saw many wagons moving along the road. They had started! Belle had said it might be today but she had forgotten. Selena felt a little guilty at having left everything at the last to Belle, but never once did the thought occur to her that her sister might not be ready. No man in the entire train was more efficient than Belle. Their wagon would be in place all right. Selena took a long last look at the grave, etching it in her memory, then she turned resolutely away and walked toward the road. Belle brought the oxen to a halt only for a moment while Selena climbed lightly up onto the seat beside her. Belle looked at her sister's tear-reddened eyes and did not speak until they came to the last place on the road from where the cemetery could still be seen. Selena sat small and silent without moving. Belle cleared her throat. "We will be out of sight of it in a few moments, Selena. Would you like to look back?" Selena continued to stare straight ahead. "'I shall not see it again," she said, her features set. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "There is no need. It will always be there, in my mind." Belle spoke sharply. "I have the feeling that you are being more faithful than he would be in a like situation." "You did not like him," Selena reminded her, as though speaking to a child. "You can say that if it pleases you, but you have no proof." "T '' Belle opened her mouth to say more, then she thought better of it. She called to one of the oxen instead, as Selena lapsed back into silence. Determined that she would not prove to be a drawback to the day's progress, Belle had had her oxen yoked and ready for the day's journey before anyone else in camp. The same thing was true that night. She could unyoke a team of oxen as quickly as any man in the wagon train. Since she had a special reason for wanting to do so, she made it a point to be just a little faster; to see that whenever Josiah came around of an evening, her team was already turned out to grass. They had been on the trail a week before Selena saw Lon Holiday. When she did, it took a moment before she could remember where she had seen him before. It was the deep blue of his eyes that recalled him—the young man at the cemetery on the day of the funeral. It was with an effort that Selena was able to speak civilly to him, remembering still her smoldering resentment. He nodded to Selena but directed his remarks to Belle. 103 FEBRUARY 1964 "T know Josiah can take care of his ten wagons all right but I want you to know I, too, am ready. To help in any way I can. I'm Lon Holiday and captain of fifty." WPe're getting along real well," said Belle, "'but thanks just the same. It does seem good to know there's someone looking out for us a bit." "Well, Josiah's a good man on a wagon train. There's nothing about this kind of traveling that he doesn't know," said Lon, facing Belle, but his eyes were on Selena. "Except how to hold his tongue!"' said Belle, sharply. Lon looked again at Belle and laughed. "You've had a word with him, have you?" "The first and the last," said Belle. "I've had all the words I care to have with him." "T've seen him in many a tight spot, but Josiah always finds a way out." "That's good," said Belle. "Just let him come around this wagon and he'll need to find a way out, quick!" Lon rode on toward the end of the wagon train, chuckling. "Now there is a man," said Belle, "one that you could depend on. Somehow I feel quite a bit easier, to know that our getting to the Valley doesn't depend upon the leadership of Josiah Blodgett." Selena did not answer, and Belle had the impression, as she 104 often did, that she was concerned little with the present. From that night on Lon Holiday made it a point to call at the Baldwin wagon each evening to offer his services. Selena answered briefly but very definitely each time that there was nothing he could do. Then one evening he came just as Belle was replacing the brake block that had come loose and fallen out. He took the axe from her capable hands and cut the stump of a tree she was working on, to size, and drove it in between the iron cleats. "There," he said, as he finished wedging the block in tight. "That ought to hold you for awhile. Better not tell your sister I helped. She might not ride in the wagon if she knew I fixed the brake block." "It isn't you particularly, with Selena," said Belle. "She's having a bad time. The best thing anyone can do right now is leave her pretty much to herself. Where are your folks, Lon?" "They couldn't accept the truth," answered Lon. "After I joined the Church, they. Couldn't accept me, either. They are still living, back in Massachusetts. And I am not welcome." "That's a coincidence," said Belle. "Same with Selena and me. Our folks couldn't believe it either, but we both knew the missionaries were teaching the truth, and we had to come." "You and Selena. I still find it strange to think the two of you are sisters." "It surprised you, did it? I'm not surprised. Everyone finds it hard to believe, what with Selena being dark and so much smaller and, well, just prettier than I am. ~ No one has ever taken us to be sisters, or for that matter, been hardly able to believe we were once they found it out." "Oh, I didn't mean..." began Lon, embarrassed by the turn the conversation had taken. "Tt doesn't matter," replied Belle, getting to her feet and picking up the axe, as Lon rode off. AT the evening dances around the campfires, Selena and Belle usually sat together, watching rather than dancing, but for entirely different reasons. Selena would have none of the gaiety and laughter and few of the young men were anxious to ask Belle. "T did. Just once," said John Meeks, "and that was enough. Why, she'd like to have picked me up and swung me clear off the ground every time the caller said 'Swing your partners.' I just don't think it's safe." This warning, coupled with the natural disinclination of the other young men to have Belle for a partner, kept her watching rather than taking part in the dancing. Any young man in the camp would have been pleased to dance with Selena. Many of them asked her at the beginning, but her repeated refusals were sufficient to discourage the most eager of the dancers. It almost angered Selena to see others gay and happy with the YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING memory of her own sorrow fresh and new. "Why do they have to dance so much?" she asked Belle as they sat in front of their wagon, the music filling the night air. "T should think once in awhile would be enough, but no, it's every single night except Sunday." "They need to dance, Selena," Belle answered. 'They have all had just as hard a day as we have. They need to relax." "That's just what I mean." Selena spoke heatedly, 'Only day before yesterday old Brother Christiansen was buried along the way. And here they are, again tonight, dancing as though nothing had happened." "We can't just give ourselves up to grief and sorrow, Selena." Belle arose and stood tall beside her sister. "No one can keep on living with just memories." "Belle!"" Selena cried. "How can you be so cruel?"' She whirled, running toward the back of the wagon as Lon came around it from the other direction. She bumped hard against him and he caught her in his arms, steadying her a moment to keep her from falling. "I'm sorry," he apologized, and drew back as she regained her footing. "Let me alone!" she cried. "TI came at the wrong time, it seems," said Lon to Belle. '"Seems like I always show up at the wrong time, as far as Selena is concerned." ""There's never a right time to 105 FEBRUARY 1964 be around Selena these days," answered Belle. "I'd like to be of more help. You're too efficient, Belle. I'd feel a lot better if I could do something for the two of you." Belle looked at him squarely. "You mean for Selena." It was a statement, not a question. Lon did not evade it. "Yes, I do," he said. "But you are her family, Belle. I mean for you, too." Belle was quiet for a long moment, watching the dancing. "So that's the way it is." "That's the way it is,"' said Lon quietly. "That's the way it has been ever since I first saw Selena, back there at the grave in Winter Quarters." After a time, Belle spoke again. "It will take a long time, Lon." "IT have plenty. Someday I mean to marry Selena." (To be continued) a al Pearle M. Olsen | always like to read a book And lose my sense of here. Books help me know of other folks Another place... Another year. | learn of new and unknown lands — Some I may never see, And things that happen in a book Are happening to me. | know just why I like to read — Of course | think it's fun, Yet, by the printed word | can See through the eyes of anyone. I listen to the things folks say, And sense the way they feel. | learn so much of what they know — All these things books reveal. | love to live vicariously Through books, within my niche. | save on travel and expense — Yet my experiences are rich. 106 Mirs. Sarah Tilghman Hughes — since 1935 Judge of the Fourteenth District Court of Dallas — swore in Lyndon Baines Johnson as President of the United States, on the plane returning the body of President Kennedy to Washington. Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. Kennedy stood near the new President. Judge Hughes was the first woman to become a district judge in Texas. She served three terms in the lower house of the Texas legislature, and once was unanimously voted by the newsmen covering the legislature the most valuable member of the body. In 1952 she was endorsed for the United States vice-presidential nomination by the National Federation of Business and Professional Women. AGNES de Mille, a great American choreographer, is the author of The Dance (Golden Press), which traces the development of dancing in its many forms — theatrical, social, ritualistic. IIlustrated with 400 pictures, the book presents a discussion of the work of such famous dancers as Isadora Duncan, Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, Carlotta Grisi, and Margot Fonteyn. Ramona W. Cannon Craupia Taylor (Lady Bird) Johnson, the new First Lady of the United States, has been an unusually capable helpmate to her husband in his political, social, and personal life. Nevertheless, she has retained a strong individuality of her own. An honor student in journalism at the University of Texas, she has continued to be an omnivorous reader, an intelligent observer of the world around her, and a woman of empathy for human beings. She learned Spanish as a communicating link with other peoples. She excels as a homemaker and hostess, and her business acumen has stretched an inheritance into a comfortable fortune, principally by way of radio and television enterprises. The Johnsons have two daughters, Lynda Bird, nineteen, and Lucy Baines, sixteen. Dr. Elizabeth J. Bottcher is assistant chief of pathology at the Salt Lake City, Utah, Veterans Administration Hospital. One of the best known pathologists in the United States, she was formerly associated with the Rochester Hospital in New York. 107 EDITORIAL The Words That Women Write A woman in her home may find a recreation and a hobby, as well as continuing joy in recording her thoughts, her hopes, and inspiration, and the history of her beloved family. The words that she writes ) may be in the form of letters to the dear ones in the home of her girlhood, to her husband's cherished people, to her children or grandchildren away at school, or in the mission field. She may inscribe for future generations the family faith, and the coming together of the intellectual legacies of ancestors remote in the stream of time. The woman who finds that words move easily from her mind to the written page, may hope that her talents and inclinations can be developed beyond the lovely art of letter writing and record keeping, to the more formal composition of poetry and essays and stories — more ambitious writings, intended for an audience beyond the family circle. One whose written words are to be treasured over the generations must be close to the deep springs of life — close to the world of nature — the earth home — close to flowers and trees and the majesty and symbolism of mountains — near to the stark somberness of the desert and akin to the greening furrows and the golden harvest. This is the objective, lovely, beckoning world that can be interpreted through a gifted individual who is grateful for her tenure upon the earth — stirred by the moods of clouds and wind and rain — and the silent winter of snow. In addition to self-expression from a personal interpretation of the natural environment, a writer needs to strive for an awareness of the weakness and the strength, the joy and the sorrow, the hopes and the relinquishing that characterize the developing human spirit. 108 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselat Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Some women have an empathy and discernment that glow as a light upon them; and others, perhaps more withdrawn, must cultivate their ability to enter into the lives of others and try to understand their problems, as they desire to set their pens to words which they hope will enrich and uplift the lives of others. The joy a woman finds in self-expression gives her a glance into a wider world, for she soon realizes that self-expression can have a broader meaning if it is disciplined, upward-reaching, and forever growing. There must be knowledge and experience in the use of words — how they may be put together for specific purposes and molded into authentic form and living strength. The rich heritage of all ages is available in the countless writings that have blessed the generations. The Bible speaks forever in inspired words of power and sublime beauty — "fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind, fulfilling his word He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names."' The Book of Books can be a schooling and an ever-present help to one who would set in words the certitudes of life here and hereafter. Poetry and prose of the ages, and down to the present time, if carefully chosen, can yield a rich background and make the fountain of words resplendent with many jeweled facets. A woman in her home, even in the short periods of comparative quietude, may take her pen in hand and draw upon her wide thoughts, her limitless environment, her family, her friends, and the gospel light, and may build with words her house of truth and beauty. —V. P. C. 109 Cortes of the 1963 index for The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1963 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. (See advertisement on page 159.) The Deseret News Press includes a copy of the index at no extra charge for each set of Magazines bound. THE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1963 will be mailed to ward and stake, mission and branch Magazine representatives about April 1, 1964. Even the desire to do our best brings hope and the beginnings of happiness. How rich then may be the rewards when desire is followed with good works. —Pauline Bell The American Heart Association As wives and mothers, women are the guardians of family health and welfare. They know the heartbreak of helping youngsters struggle against the handicaps of rheumatic fever or inborn heart defects, of caring for aged parents overcome by stroke. Too often they know the loneliness of widowhood when — sometimes without warning — husbands are felled by heart attack. That is why so many voluntarily serve in community-wide rheumatic fever prevention programs — why mothers whose children have recovered from heart operations offer friendly, sympathetic encouragement to parents of youngsters with heart defects; why wives and mothers have made the hope of recovery at home a reality for hundreds of thousands of cardiac children, heart. Attack, and stroke victims. It is a cause that women take to their hearts, year after year. Heart fund dollars help to pay for life-saving advances in treatment of heart attack, high blood pressure, strokes, rheumatic fever. New techniques of diagnosis and surgery for inborn heart defects have created hope where none existed. Heart fund dollars buy life and hope. Mary Brown How fortunate, a woman I was born, Although | doubt that men can understand Why we accept our lot rather than scorn The fact that they're our masters, in command. In viewing life just merely with the eye, Men seem to reign in stature and in state. But spiritually they lack, and this is why For happiness complete they need a mate. So God created women to give birth, That every living soul may draw a breath. And to fulfill his plan for life on earth, Then call us back to him through mortal death. And so, you see, we walk right by his side, And thus accept our womanhood with pride. Note: The author of this poem is seventeen years old. 11 National Children's Dental Health Week February 2 - 8, 1964 "Keep Your Smile — Take Care of Your Teeth" American Dental Association Correct diagnosis and treatment of irregular tooth position and jaw relationship in early youth can have immeasurable benefits throughout life. The most critical period of dental development occurs during the change from the primary to the secondary dentition. Not only will the biting and chewing process benefit with proper orthodontic treatment, but in the absence of marked malocclusion (irregular tooth position), severe peridontal (gum) disease rarely exists.. The "baby" teeth not only serve for biting and chewing, but they maintain the arch length for the permanent teeth. Loss of this arch length occurs when a tooth is removed and no measure taken to maintain the space. Restorations must be properly contoured to maintain contact, and thereby insure space for the permanent successors. At about eight years of age, the child enters the "early mixed dentition period,"' when the four permanent incisors (front teeth) and the four first permanent molars have replaced the primary teeth. It is at this time when overcrowding may occur and cause unaligned teeth. When the child is about eleven or twelve, and most of the permanent teeth are in, the child should be carefully checked to see that the proper fitting together of the teeth is developing normally. Even in adult dentition all missing teeth should be promptly replaced. Did the Groundhog See His Shadow? Evalyn M. Sandberg With gold stuffed in hip pockets, Bees labor through blue skies From feather-bloomed acacia In a month that, otherwise, The calendar calls winter. But snow forgot to fall; And an almond tree, amazingly, Drops petals on a wall. There is an oak upon the hillside Beneath which | would lie While cotton-candy cumulus Careens across the Sky. No leaden hours to underscore One hint of doubt or fear — This must be summer gladness Come earlier this year. 112 the Home Remembering Enola Chamberlin When in your heart the hours are long, And clouds brood low above the trees, Remember days of summer song And sun and shadow filigrees. Remember robins, red of vest, And dogwood bushes all in bloom, The sunlight on the mountain crest, A lily's white perfume. Remember dawns that spread like flowers, With pearl and opal coloring — As drouth-dry earth remembers showers, As winter winds remember spring. 143 ; Cc - We know What it lS. Where Words you and I, that We can't know end, love begins. How Jy We can fee] the thin lucky J] am that J Is love born? « €ep in unfathomable I= the Seed of love Was planted depths." €ep it was But once nurtured by share Ss | Joy, And in so at it is ¢ & Mystery heart that makes liyj do I love thee? Le Ng in this t me Count the Ways » S day J can't tel] you what YOu mean, my heart lifts he YOu come ome, how things In th World hay, NeW vitalit becaus We are together can only lead in the most ord 15 7\\ = \\/ A4\ Janet W. Breeze A mother's baking day is always evidence of love toward her hungry family, but this treat is more than just evidence. It even looks like a token of love. The special equipment needed for this heart-shaped dessert is one eightinch square cake tin and one eight-inch round cake tin. Use them in which to bake your favorite cake. When the cake is cool, cut the round layer in half. These halves make the top sides of the heart. The Square layer placed at diamond angle forms the bottom of the heart. Arrange the cake on a large plate or tray, first placing small paper doilies around the cake to form a lacy background. Now frost the cake pink and pretty with no-cook valentine icing, topped with sprinkles of coconut, for a special family treat that looks good enough for a party. No-Cook Valentine icing 4 tsp. Salt 2 egg whites 14 Cc. Sugar 34 C. Corn syrup ll, tsp. Flavoring red food flavoring Add salt to egg whites and beat to soft peaks. Gradually stir in sugar and beat until shiny. Continue beating and add corn Syrup gradually. Beat until icing stands in fairly firm peaks. Fold in flavoring and food coloring. 116 ma limates a Teas of the World. It a read Stores €asily, J has hj food N been alled the "staff value. The Proteing jn the gr und of life," and S Certainly Well or milled Wheat, on Wetting and serving of his tit] I Tesmixin » §lVE rise + gluten Which ence or absence, as wel] lS ig Stron d elastic nd Makes quality, have Influenced history Possible yeast-leavened, light through any Centuries, In the loaf of bread. These Should cerNited tates to there jg tainly be Sufficient Teasons fop available a great Variety of 800d its Popularity, 00d, and the aver ge A erican Wheat and w at Products €ats Many of these foods in dProvide yg ith a "oMparatively dition + bread. However, Inexpengiy ource Calories America, 00ds mad Tom wheat 4nd prote; In a limited fami] Contribute bout ne-fourth f fou budget they can be used to e total ergy quirement f great advantage. However, the man, while IN some European form of th Products Should be Countries, the Wheat Products Careful] hose n, Unenricheg are nearly twice as at. White flour or bread, for instance, © Progenitor of our Wheat IS not a 800d buy _ ither eco. Today, the Parent Wheat, einkorn omically op tritionally. It does Was 4Pparently Cultivated Severa] ot contrib t anything but calo thousand years ago In the €ar ries an Protein, th B-vitaming ast, and th new types de. Nd minera] havin €en lost in Veloped, Spread al] Over the World. Wing. Whole Wheat or enriched ven no 4r10us parts of the hite flours a d Products Made Slobe wh t is being Substitute Tom these flours Sive yoy much for Other Cereal gr Sin human More for your mone and for ets, your alories, nd this js Why is Wheat go Popular? FEBRUARY 1964 ucts are being used in fairly large amounts. Wheat may be used in many delightful ways for family meals. It may be used whole, cracked, or ground into flour. If you have eaten in an Armenian restaurant you may have been served a delicious golden pilaf made from pre-cooked and dried wheat called bulgor or bulgur. Bulgur wheat has been a staple in the diets of the peoples of the Middle East for many centuries. It has been produced commercially in the United States for a number of years and is gaining favor with American consumers. It is also being shipped abroad to foodshort countries, When bulgur is used in a variety of dishes it has the advantages of cooking more rapidly than whole or cracked wheat, and it may also have developed a delightful flavor from its precooking and drying process. The Western Regional Research Laboratory at Albany, California, has developed a large number of recipes using bulgur. You may be able to purchase commercially prepared bulgur or, if you are storing your own supply of whole wheat, you may enjoy preparing your own. To Make Bulgur Wheat 1. Wash wheat in cool water and discard water. 2. Boil wheat in excess water until all water is absorbed and wheat is tender — 35 to 45 minutes, usually. 3. Spread wheat thinly on cookie sheet or shallow pan and dry in oven at 200° F until very dry so that it will crack easily. 4. Wet surface of dried wheat slight- 118 ly and rub kernels between hands to loosen and remove chaff. 5. Crack wheat in moderate-size pieces, using mill or grinder or even a mortar and pestle. In some cases the wheat may be used whole, giving a very chewy product. 6. This processed bulgur is easily stored and may be used in any of the following recipes. If the recipe calls for cooked bulgur simply boil in water for 5 to 10 minutes, whereby it will approximately double in volume. If bulgur is not available or you do not care to make it yourself, you may substitute regular cracked wheat with satisfactory results. In either case, try serving wheat pilaf with a meat and vegetable plate. It has a sweet, nutlike flavor and crunchy texture your family should like very much. Or the wheat will make an excellent meat extender when used in the meat loaf, Swedish meat balls, Mexican bulgur chili, or chicken curry pilaf recipes. Cooked and chilled bulgur may be added to your favorite cole slaw recipe for a most interesting and enjoyable salad. In fact, almost the only limit to its use Is your imagination. Bulgur, soaked overnight in salt water, may be added to yeast rolls for a nut-like flavor and texture. It is also used in the raisin bar recipe. Using wheat in another form, that of flour, by making bread at home, may mean a Savings of food money, especially if flour and yeast are purchased in large quantities and bread is a mainstay of the family fare. If whole wheat is part of your food storage plan, you will undoubtedly have a grinder or at least access to the use of one. Whole-wheat bread made from your own flour is a most welcome addition to a carefully planned, economical food supply. Baking bread is really very easy when it is conveniently fitted into a household schedule, and it can be lots of fun for most people — especially for the family when the bread first comes out of the oven. There is absolutely nothing quite like the aroma and mouthwatering flavor of freshly baked homemade bread. You know that experiences with food are often the center of values and feelings which have nothing to do with nutrition. This indescribable odor of fresh bread baking when your children come home from school or in from play will probably give them valued associations and memories for their entire lives. There are really many wonderful things one can do with wheat. The following recipes will give you a start. I hope you will try them. Where bulgur is called for in a recipe, cracked wheat may be substituted. WHEAT PILAF 2 c. Cooked bulgur 3 tbsp. Shortening, oil or margarine Y% c. Chopped onion 1 tsp. Salt 3 c. Bouillon or soup stock (Cook 1 cup of dry bulgur for 10-15 minutes in excess water or until water is absorbed and wheat is soft. It will double in size.) If using cracked wheat, cook it a little longer. Melt shortening in a large frying pan. Sauté wheat and chopped onion about 5 minutes. Add salt and liquid. Reduce heat, THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT cover tightly, and simmer until the liquid is absorbed (about 15-20 minutes). If a more crunchy pilaf is desired, -it is suggested that cooked whole bulgur be used in place of the cracked (uncooked) bulgur. Makes 6 to 8 servings. BULGUR MEAT LOAF 1% c¢. Cooked or canned bulgur 1 egg ¥ c. Milk 12 tsp. Salt Y% tsp. Pepper %4 tsp. Sage 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce % c. Chopped onion Y% c. Ketchup 1 Ib. Ground beef Blend ingredients together. Turn into loaf pan or shape into loaf in a shallow baking dish. If desired, spread surface with thin layer of ketchup. Bake in moderate oven, 325° F, for about 1 hour or until nicely browned. Makes 6 to 8 servings. BULGUR SWEDISH MEAT BALLS 1% ¢. Cooked bulgur 1 egg Yo c. Milk 2 tbsp. Minced onion Vg tsp. Mace Y tsp. Allspice 1 tsp. Salt % tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 Ib. Ground beef % ¢. Flour 1 tsp. Salt Y% tsp. Pepper 3 tbsp. Shortening 1 tbsp. Flour Yy ¢. Bouillon or soup stock Yc. Milk Ye tsp. Salt pepper Combine bulgur, egg, milk, onion, mace, allspice, salt, Worcestershire sauce, and ground beef. Form balls about 1% inches 'n diameter. Roll balls in % c. Flour seasoned with 1 tsp. Salt and % tsp. Pepper. Heat 3 tbsp. Shortening in a large skillet. Add meat balls and sauté over moderate heat for about 15 minutes until lightly browned on all sides. Remove balls. Blend the drippings with 1 119 MEXICAN BULGUR CHIL! 2 thsp. Oil T Ib. Ground beef Ye. Chopped Onion % tsp, garlic salt 26. Cooked bulgur 5c. Bouillon °F Soup stock few 9rains Cayenne Pepper le, tomato Sauce Heat the oil in q heavy Skillet, Add 9round beef, chopped Onion, and Garlic sly Sauté Over Moderate heat Until onions are lightly browned. Blend jn the Cooked bulgur and the CHICKEN CURRY PILAF %. Shortening Yo, chopped Onion 7 medium-sizeg tart [Pple, Peeled, Cored, IwWe chicken bouillon (canned, cubes, 6, 2. Cooked bulgur c. Diced Chicken (or turkey) WHEAT NUT ROLLS Y% «. Dry bulgur (cracked) le. Cold water 2 tsp. Salt 1 pkg. Yeast, active dry or compressed yeast le, warm water (lukewarm for compressed ©2. Sharp cheddar Cheese le (1 can) tung fish (chunk style) Melt Margarine jn Saucepan Over low heat, Blend in flour and % tsp. Salt. Add milk all CHAPTER 8 (Conclusion) Luana was clearing the breakfast table, after the children had gone to school, when Millie Togo came in through the bamboo curtains. Her smile was a white flash in her golden brown face. She had brought her baby wrapped in the white embroidered silk robe that Emma Lu had purchased in San Francisco. "Oh, let me hold him!" Margaret exclaimed, reaching for him. "Precious!"" she murmured when Millie placed him in her arms. "Too precious for words!" Millie looked at Tutu who was busy at her work table making a fresh supply of poi. "Tutu," she said, in her silken voice, "it's my day to read to the blind... And here I am without a baby sitter. Could you?" 122 Tutu shook her head. "I am sorry, Millie. Today, Luana takes me to the doctor. I'd be glad to do it any other time." "Oh, Millie — let me!" Margaret called out in her gay voice. "Emma Lu will be here, too. We'll take good care of him." "I'd be so grateful,' Millie said. "It's the first time I've been anywhere since he was born. Mike said I could stop at the shops and buy something new." Her eyes were black stars. "TI'll bring his formula." "Run along," Luana laughed. "Have a happy day, your baby is in good hands, Millie." Iv was after three o'clock before Luana and Tutu started for Dr. Hartford's office in the second- hand convertible. They had nicknamed the car "Old Jig-Saw," because Phil said it was a puzzle which way it was going to move — forward, or up and down. "Time just slipped by,'' Luana told Tutu as they jogged along the highway. "But it was such fun! When there is a baby in the house, he is the center of everything." Tutu laughed softly. "The little king had us all bowing to him," she said, "even Margaret. She never let go of him." Luana drew a long tremulous breath. "Speaking of Margaret,' she said, "she has chosen the place for her painting."' Her voice faltered. "... My lagoon, Tutu." Silence hung between them. Luana kept her eyes on the highway. "IT know," Tutu said at last. "She showed me her painting this morning. She must have worked all night and many nights before."' "I saw her," Luana said in a fierce, tight little voice. "My lagoon! Tutu — I can't bear it!" Tutu's arm was tender and warm around her shoulders. '""She has an artist's eye, too," she said gently. "It was inevitable that she would paint the lagoon once she had seen it. But take heart, my Luana," she added consolingly. "Although her painting has the touch of the professional, more perfection of line and perspective than yours has, still yours has a freshness and feeling that some professionals have forgotten — qualities that KISS OF THE WIND win prizes. If I were a judge, I would give yours the prize, Luana. Margaret's painting has a yearning quality — a searching — but yours has fulfillment, like a woman who has known every rich gift of life." "Thank you, Tutu," Luana murmured. "I need to win that money so very much. And I think a painting of that lagoon will win." "Yes," Tutu conceded, in her thoughtful way. "A painting of that lagoon has a good chance to win." Dr. Hartford was a large, hearty man who radiated hope and courage to all his patients. After examining Tutu, he beamed down at her. "So you went on a hill slide Saturday," he said. 'Well, it gave your heart a healthy bounce. Now, remember, I'm not recommending this for my heart patients, but for you it was very good. You're better than you have been for sometime. What could have done it besides that slide?" Tutu's blue eyes twinkled into his. "I have much to live for, Dr. Hartford. My work is not yet finished here."' "You are a real trooper!" he said, patting her shoulder. "Hawaii has won her Statehood through such characters as you and your family. I remember your husband, John Benjamin Harrington. A man of spirit and courage. He was devoted to Hawaii." "Yes," she said. "I wish he 123 FEBRUARY 1964 could have lived until Statehood was achieved. He worked for that." Dr. Hartford looked at Luana who was standing by them. His eyes narrowed, quizzically. "I wish I could say you look as perky as your Tutu. But you seem a bit languid to me. I want to check you over right now." On the way home in the late afternoon, Tutu leaned against Luana's shoulder and slept as peacefully as a child. Luana did not awaken her until they turned into the plantation lane. She stopped the car a block from the house and parked it beneath a leafy banyan tree. The sun was coral and gold _ through its branches. "Tutu," she said softly, as Tutu opened her eyes and sat up. "I have something to tell you — something almost too wonderful to talk about." "IT know, my darling," Tutu's voice was a hushed lullaby. "I saw the light in your eyes when you came from Dr. Hartford's private office. I saw the glory in your smile as though the wind had kissed you." "A baby." Luana whispered, "'another baby to love and care for. What a heavenly blessing to have a baby when you are forty-three!"' "God's blessing,' Tutu answered. "Now when Emma Lu is married and goes to the Mainland to make her home, and Philip leaves for New Zealand, we will have our new baby to plan for. I must live a long time 124 now, Luana, to help you and Ben." Luana's breath was a sigh of happiness. "My darling Ben," she said, "what another baby will mean to him, joy beyond words!" "The sun reddens," Tutu reminded her, ''almost dinnertime." Dreamily Luana started the car, and they rode home in quiet wonderment. "T will change my dress and help you," Tutu said, as they hurried down the hallway toward their bedrooms. Hearing voices in Emma Lu's room, they hesitated near the half-open doorway. Someone was sobbing. Margaret's voice came brokenly. "Oh, Emma Lu, having Millie's baby today brought it all back — all the yearning for a baby of my own. I would give anything — anything — for a baby." Luana leaned against the door frame. She felt weak and sick all over. Tutu did not move or speak. "T paint so much and so desperately," Margaret went on. "I give all my creative urge to my art, because I have nothing else. I know that is the reason our Heavenly Father has helped me to be successful. Oh, I realize that creating art or music or beautiful writing is God's gift to us, too, but motherhood is the greatest gift. Mothers are cocreators with God. Oh, Emma Lu, no one knows how I long for a baby of my own." Luana looked at Tutu. Their eyes met and lingered with tears of compassion. Then each went quietly to her own room' and closed the door. Margaret must never know that they had heard her bare her heart to Emma Lu. DINNER at the Harrington's was always a gay affair. Luana, with a little pang, could see that Margaret was trying to be extra gay. Her voice was too high, her smile too tremulous. Emma Lu, Pixie, and Philip had gone to a Mutual party at the meetinghouse, but the rest of them lingered at the dinner table with an extra helping of Tutu's date tarts. "I think J'll learn the hula while I'm in Hawaii," Margaret said. "That will surprise Tom when he comes for me." "Try to hula with bamboo sticks," Benjy said. "You can beat the rhythm that way." "Or a feather gourd," Bo told her. "They rattle. We'll show you, Aunt Margaret." "You darlings!" She smiled at them. "Taking time out to teach your aunt. But everyone on the Mainland will expect me to talk about the fun in Hawaii." Ben leaned back in his chair, folding his arms across his chest. "Margaret," he said, "forgive me if I say this again. Tell the folks on the Mainland that we don't play all the time in Hawaii. I want to show you the fields of sugar cane and the refineries that employ thousands of workers. There are towns built by the big corporations who own the pine and sugar industries. You must see the coastal villages and the KISS OF THE WIND fishing canneries. We have huge farms of wheat and grain and cattle ranches that equal anything in Texas." "We have cowboys," Benjy told her. "They're like real cowboys anywhere, only they wear leis of feathers around their hats. Bo and I saw them, didn't we, Daddy?"' "Yes, son," Ben answered. "We must take Aunt Margaret to the out-of-the-way places where men like old Hamana still make canoes from koa wood." "And he carves ornaments, too,"' Bo chimed in. "He does indeed," Ben nodded. "Especially when he finds a piece of sandalwood, which is mighty scarce these days." BEN's eyes smiled into hers. "What I'm trying to say is this, Margaret. The real people of Hawaii, like the real people anywhere in the world, are busy, ambitious people, with a purpose in life. It is generally the visitor who plays all the time. The rest of us are too busy earning a liying and helping our fellow men. The hula, the ukulele, and surf-riding are all a part of our recreation, but they are not everything, as some of the Mainlanders think they are." "Ben is right,"' Tutu said, looking at Margaret. "There is much work to do in Hawaii. I've been wondering if you would like to go with me tomorrow to the island of Molokai?" Margaret wet her lips. Then she lifted her head, smiling at 125 FEBRUARY 1964 Tutu. "Well — yes. Yes, I would, Tutu." "There is a little boy there I want you to see," Tutu went on, casually. "You are such a fine artist, I am sure you will appreciate him. He is a three-yearold Haole boy, and he has the most beautifully formed face I have ever seen. The bone structure is perfect. His eyes have an expression no one can forget. A portrait of him could be a masterpiece, Margaret." "Oh, I'd love to see him," Margaret said. "I've been searching for a subject for a portrait." "He is an orphan," Tutu explained. "Some of his relatives have taken care of him s'nce his parents were killed, fishing on the shark coast.' "His name is Joa," Benjy said. "Tutu says he can sing already." Luana pretended to eat her tart. She knew Tutu was trying to help Margaret, by interesting her in little Joa. Luana's heart quickened. Some way, somehow, she, too, must help Margaret. After family prayers together, Luana went from one room to another, as she always did, to say goodnight to each of her children. Pixie was seated at her cretonne-skirted dressing table brushing her short, clipped hair. "It's growing, Mama, look! I like it cut off this way — it's almost curly." "Tt is!" Luana agreed. ""You're so cute with it short." P lxie's face sobered. "Mama — have you noticed — my teeth are 126 straighter? I don't need braces — really. Remember what Dr. Williamson said when you first took me to him — that once in a blue moon teeth like mine adjust themselves? Maybe I've found the blue moon — anyway I'm not afraid to smile anymore." Luana looked at her quizzically. Her teeth were straighter — almost pretty when she smiled. "All the girls like my hair," Pixie went on. "I'm glad now that Daddy made me cut if off, and had it fixed my natural color." "I'm glad, too,' Luana murmured, kissing her fresh young cheek. "Sweet dreams, dear." Benjy and Bo, in their twin beds, were whispering together as she entered their room. "Hello!" Benjy said, lifting his face for her kiss. "Bo says that now we're thirteen we should earn money after school, so we can help Phil on his mission. We could work in the pine cannery." Luana sat down beside Bo. She always tried to share her attention equally between them, but Benjy was more openly demonstrative than Bo. Kisses to Benjy were as natural as breathing, but they were very special to Bo. "Phil would appreciate that," she said. "Then, when it's your turn for a mission, he can help you. But your Daddy must be the one to decide what jobs would be best. Remember you have your daily work to do for him here, on the plantation." ""Sure,"' Bo agreed. "Our Daddy knows about everything." Luana nodded. ''He knows KISS OF THe WIND again r let the tears Y g00d. Eak through, Her heart Was We £0 to Sleep?" brimmi - Now that their -; asleep a long, breath]: Then She ]j alking thoughtfully to Em Lu's Toom, she U slept; a Went quietly to the Closet r her Painting and Carried it to h Euma Lu was standing by the Window £azi €f OWN room, €N Was in hj bi n dreamily at the big White moo | e FEBRUARY 1964 you will send it to the McDougal Contest." With a little sigh, Luana pressed her head against his shoulder. She told him about Margaret and her painting, and how she and Tutu had heard her heartbreaking talk with Emma Lu. Then she told him how the children were willing to sacrifice for each other, and she felt that she should sacrifice for Margaret because she truly loved her. "T want to help her, darling. So I have decided not to send my painting to the contest. Now, I can really say that I hope she wins it." Ben's hands were firm on her shoulders as he turned her so that his wise, unflinching eyes looked steadily into hers. '""You have your values crossed, my darling,' he said. "This sounds like a very noble sacrifice on your part, but I do not approve of it. No one should sacrifice his ability to create. We believe in using and making the best of our God-given talents. You should not sacrifice it for Margaret or anyone else. I know you love your brother and his wife, and that you are deeply compassionate because they have no children. I am, too. But there is always the danger that a sacrifice of the kind you suggest will not only destroy your own efforts to be successful, but it might weaken the very person you are trying to help. You have done a magnificent job — I say you should enter it in the contest." His eyes crinkled. "It might be 128 that neither of you will win. Who knows? The important thing is to realize that neither your real happiness nor Margaret's depends on that contest. There are better ways for you to help Margaret. If you keep your painting out of the contest, you might go through life thinking you could have won. You might get a complex about it. Margaret has won many contests. That isn't what she really needs. Tutu has found the right way to make her help herself. A child to care for and sacrifice for is what she and Tom really need. Let's hope they take the little boy." Luana met her husband's eyes in a long, lingering look of love and understanding. Ben was positive and strong, but full of gentleness. "You are right," she said. "I will mail my painting tomorrow." "You should," he said. "That painting is a miracle." Luana was smiling as her lips touched his cheek. "A miracle," she whispered. "I have a greater miracle to tell you about. The greatest miracle in the world. Another baby — for us." She felt him breathe deeply, and his hand smoothed her dark hair. "My wife," he said, tenderly, "my Luana. Bless you, my darling. I feel humble and yet so proud. I could touch the stars." "T know," she murmured. ''We have always touched the stars — together." = = General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication im this departrnent should be sent theese stake and mass Kelet Society pre sidents. Sce regulations gowermmnge the eubonitiel of matenal for "Notes Town the field" m the Magazive tor January 1955, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructi RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES a eee op ae 6 amr sagt darmrrraes ga SER Sis ae C805 5 ecru Let Ne ns TE meee es Bees Re a ON: 3 Me ee Ree Ce ee ',.. Glendale Stake (California) Visiting Teachers Representing Many Lands oat Inter-Foith Friendship Festival April 26, 1963 — Edna A. Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports a successful and spiritually rewarding "Friendship Social," in which the visiting teachers, many of them representing their native lands, were dressed in authentic costumes. "Our Education Counselor Leah Frandsen wrote the script for the program. We had nearly 400 nonmembers present, representing thirty-five religious faiths. It is interesting to know just how many different religions there are and how many women can be touched through our inter-faith socials." 129 FEBRUARY 1964 May 12, 1963 Standing at the left in the front row, Geraldine Twitty, chorister, and next to Sister Twitty, is Genevieve Johnson, President of the Columbus Second Ward Relief Society, who served as organist; Alice L. Wilkinson, member of the General Board of Relief Society, stands at the right in the front row, and Farel Rush, President, Columbus Stake Relief Society, stands at the right in the second row. Sister Rush reports that this occasion marked the first stake performance of this group of Singing Mothers. Five ward Relief Society presidents and four stake board members, in addition to Sister Rush, are represented in the chorus. June 4, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Laura Cutler, Second Counselor, in charge of the social science presentation; Mollie Richardson, First Counselor, in charge of the fashion show; President Russell C. Taylor of Denver West Stake Presidency; Della H. Teeter, President, Denver West Stake Relief Society. Sister Teeter reports: "On June 4, 1963, Denver West Stake held an inter-faith meeting and fashion show, with the theme 'A Woman's World.' The social science presentation of 'God So Loved the World' was portrayed with the stake Singing Mothers furnishing the music. The chorus was directed by Leah Greenberg, with Sally Guillian as accompanist, Betty Butterworth as vocal solist, and Ivagene Thompson as violin soloist. Addresses were given by Sister Teeter and President Taylor. The fashion show, with seventy-two participants, was an end result of a basic sewing course conducted by the stake Relief Society under the leadership of Elma Walker. There were approximately 300 present, including known representatives from forty-six other churches. We enjoyed a delightful social hour in the cultural hall, with displays of the four lessons by stake class leaders." April 28, 1963 Front row, left to right: Lynne Despain, organist; LeDeane Cobabe, chorister; Ruth Witty, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society; Jena Westover, First Counselor; Doris Phillips, Second Counselor; Irene Buehner, member, General Board of Relief Society; Norma Nichols, of the General Board of the Primary Association. Sister Witty reports that the Redondo Stake Singing Mothers have presented the music for many occasions, including a fashion show in cooperation with the Mutual Improvement Association, the visiting teacher convention, and closing social, April 19, 1963, and stake quarterly conference April 28, 1963. The above photograph was taken immediately following stake conference, 130 FEBRUARY 1964 Orem Stake (Utah!, Orem Seventh Ward Presents 'Relief Society Hall of Fame" Commemorating the Birthday of Relief Society March 13, 1963 Left to right: First Counselor LaRee H. Brough as Emma H. Smith; Bella Evans as Eliza R. Snow; Minnie E. Hill as Zina D. H. Young; Marilyn Van Leuvin as Bethsheba Smith; Lola Wilberg as Emmeline B. Wells; Mable Williamson as Clarissa S. Williams; Karilin Robb as Louise Y. Robison; Second Counselor Emma S. Nicholes as Amy Brown Lyman; Ward Relief Society President Vanza J. Ekins (in frame at the right) acted as narrator and created the presentation of the program "Relief Society Hall of Fame," and represents President Belle S. Spafford. Bertha J. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each sister was framed in portrait fashion. Background music was furnished during the narration and introduction of each president. Songs which were composed by our early presidents were sung by a small group of Singing Mothers, which added to the spiritual atmosphere of the program. Each sister wrote her own biography of the president she portrayed, and expressed the pleasure and testimony she gained from doing so. A beautiful birthday cake and punch were served to the many sisters in attendance. Special invitations were sent to all the sisters in the ward, and many who had never attended Relief Society came to the social. We feel that everyone received a faith-promoting introduction to the origin and growth of Relief Society." 132 NOTES FROM THE FIELD an ees pier et ite pj May 24, 1963 Grouped around a table depicting the part music plays in Relief Society, left to right: Wylene Fotheringham, Work Director Counselor; Lucy Perry, Education Counselor; Elaine Jack, literature class leader; Lois Oswald, President; Eileen Sherren, organist; Eula Romney, work meeting leader; Beulah Rose, social science class leader; Dorie Walton, Magazine representative. Sister Oswald reports: "All the sisters of our stake — members and nonmembers — were invited to attend our 'Friendship Day' on May 24th. The stake board set up display tables depicting each phase of Relief Society work, and each ward had a table displaying articles that had been made at their work meetings during the year. A lovely fashion show was presented. Most of the clothing, modeled by mothers, children, and teenagers, was made in basic sewing classes held in each ward during the year. A very clever narration, written by Work Director Counselor Wylene Fotheringham, and read by literature class leader Elaine Jack, presented the theme 'Seams Like Old Times,' which added greatly to the presentation. There were many in attendance who are not regular Relief Society members. They seemed to enjoy the affair very much, and we are hopeful that this 'Friendship Day' will continue to stimulate and add interest in our Relief Society program for the coming year." 133 FEBRUARY 1964 By Au May 4, 1963 Left to right, stake board members: Beth Peterson, chorister; Jean Green, theology class leader; Marian Asay, Second Counselor; Virginia Jacobson, President; Mary A. Robison, First Counselor; Mildred Duckworth, SecretaryTreasurer; Leola Christensen, social science class leader; Naydeen Sandmire, visiting teacher message leader; Maryalice Stewart, literature class leader; Beverly Johnson, Magazine representative. Sister Jacobson reports: "Over 160 women attended this social, about onethird of whom were nonmembers, from a wide variety of churches. Work items from the various wards and branches were on display. We also had an excellent display of the Magazine, as well as a display of the uses of whole wheat. Guests were asked to sign the guest book and to wear name tags. "A skit presenting the opportunties to be found in Relief Society was presented, followed by a presentation of 'My Testimony' by the stake Singing Mothers. The program was concluded with a fashion show of fashions made and modeled by members of Relief Society or their children. During the serving of refreshments, door prizes were awarded. The prizes consisted of homebaked items, as well as home-sewed items. The cultural hall was beautifully decorated, with a flower-draped archway through which the guests entered." 134 \: 7 THEOLOGY ¢ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 56 — The Book of Revelation Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 77) For First Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To glean important items of instruction of revealed latter-day knowledge from the revelation given to John the apostle on Patmos. Introduction One of the Bible books little understood is the Book of Revelation in the New Testament. Great numbers of books have been written attempting to explain its symbols. While the Prophet was revising the Bible with the aid of Sidney Rigdon as scribe, the Lord revealed the meaning of some difficult passages in that book. Althoughs on one occasion Joseph Smith said the Book of Revelation was one of the plainest books that God caused to be written (DHC V:342), he included some comments in Section 77 of the Doctrine and Covenants on certain passages in eight of the twenty-two chapters of that book. General Information The Book of Revelation is also known as the Apocalypse, a Greek word meaning to reveal the future. The author, John the apostle, describes this revelation as telling of "things which must shortly come to pass" (Rev. 1:1; see also Rev. 1: 19; 4:1.) The Revelation is addressed to seven churches of the Roman 136 province of Asia: Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea. (Rev. 1:4, 11.) John relates that the visions of the book were received when he was on the island of Patmos, which lies off the southwest coast of Asia Minor. At this time the apostle had been banished during a period of Roman persecution against the Christians. Latter-day Saint writers have generally interpreted the seven churches, to whom the Revelation is specifically addressed because of their spiritual condition, as the remaining branches of the Church which were worthy of revelation; for the Church at large had gone into a state of apostasy. Elder James E. Talmage writes on this point, as follows: During the banishment of John the Revelator on the isle of Patmos, when nearly all the apostles had been taken from the earth, many of them having suffered martyrdom, the apostasy was so wide-spread that only seven. "churches," i. E. Branches of the Church, remained in such condition as to be considered deserv- ing of the special communication John was instructed to give. In a marvelous vision he beheld the seven churches typified by seven golden candlesticks, with seven stars representing the presiding officers of the several churches, and in the midst of the golden candlesticks, with the stars in his hand, stood "one like unto the Son of Man." The church at Ephesus was approved for its good works, specifically for its rejection of the Nicolaitan heresies;. Nevertheless reproof was administered for disaffection and neglect, thus: — "thou hast left thy first love. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent." [Rev. 2:4, 5.| To the church at Pergamos John was commanded to write, denouncing the false doctrines of certain sects and_ teachers, "which thing I hate" said the Lord. The church of the Laodiceans was denounced as "lukewarm," "neither hot nor cold," and as priding itself as rich and not in need, whereas it was in reality "wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked." [Rev. 3:17.] The foregoing scriptures are ample as proof that even before the ancient apostles had finished their earthly ministry, apostasy was growing apace (The Great Apostasy, 1953 edition, pp. 44-45). Section 77 — A Key to Interpretation The great confusion existing in the Christian world regarding the Book of Revelation is due to the loss of the key to interpret it. In an informative observation on this point, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (page 478) brings out that it will never be understood if one assumes that there has not been an apostasy and a restoration of the true Church. This authoritative source continues: But this Revelation [Section.77] is not a complete interpretation of the book. It is a key. A key is a very small part of the LESSON DEPARTMENT house. It unlocks the door through which an entrance may be gained, but after the key has been turned, the searcher for treasure must find it for himself. It is like entering a museum in which the students must find out for themselves what they desire to know. The sources of information are there. (Ibid.) Purpose The subject matter which follows is designed to point out many significant truths from Section 77 which are not known to the world. It is not the purpose of this discussion to attempt an analysis of the entire Book of Revelation. Obviously the most important lessons to be learned are those which are founded upon the words of the prophets of this dispensation. Repeatedly, the elders of the Church have been warned against delving into what are known as scriptural mysteries, meaning. Those things which the Lord _ has~ not clearly made known. Upon. This point the Prophet Joseph Smith has said: I make this broad declaration, that whenever God gives a vision of an image, or beast, or figure of any kind, He always holds Himself responsible to give a reveJation or interpretation of the meaning thereof, otherwise we are not responsible or accountable for our belief in it. Don't be afraid of being damned for not knowing the meaning of a vision or figure, if God has not given a revelation or interpretation of the subject (DHC V:343). Again from-the Prophet: Oh, ye elders of Israel, harken to my voice; and when you are sent into the world to preach, tell those things you are sent to tell; preach and cry aloud, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand; repent and believe the Gospel." Declare 'the first principles, and. Let mysteries alone, lest ye be overthrown. Never 137 FEBRUARY 1964 meddle with the visions of beasts and subjects you do not understand (Ibid., page 344). It is declared "The Book of Revelation is one of the grandest books in sacred literature, and the Lord clearly designs that the Saints should become familiar with it. Else, why this Revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants?" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 478). The Earth Latter-day Saints believe that the creation of the earth was purposeful in that it was to be the home for man. In an earlier revelation, the Lord made known that marriage is designed to bring the spirit sons and daughters of God to earth where they may continue their eternal advancement. By doing so "the earth might answer the end of its creation" (D & C 49:16). In answer to the question: "What is the sea of glass?" of Revelation 4:6, the Prophet answered that: "It is the earth, in its sanctified, immortal, and eternal state" (Ibid., 77:1). This will be the condition of the earth when final judgment has been rendered to its inhabitants, and it becomes the abiding place of celestial beings. In this condition another revelation declares that it will be as a Urim and Thummim to enable its occupants to know of kingdoms inferior to the celestial state. (D & C 130:9.) Before this time, however, the earth will die and undergo a change equivalent to the resurrection. (Ibid., 88:25-26.) These thoughts suggest a belief of the Latter-day Saint that the earth is a living organism. (Moses 7:48- 49:) 138 There are three conditions of the earth spoken of in the inspired writings, — the present, in which everything pertaining to it must go through a change which we call death; the millennial condition, in which it will be sanctified for the residence of purer intelligences, some mortal and some immortal; and the celestial condition, spoken of in the twenty-first and twenty-second chapters of Revelation, which will be one of immortality and eternal life (TaLMaceE, JAMes E.: Articles of Faith, page 517). Man and Animal In the second verse of Section 77 a question is raised relative to the four beasts spoken of in Revelation 4:6. (See Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 472 for further information.) After saying that these are figurative expressions to describe heaven, and the happiness of man, beasts, and the fowls of the air, the Prophet gives some light on the spirit of man and animal. A salient thought is expressed in the observation that the temporal has its spiritual counterpart. This gives background for the truth that "the spirit of man (is) in the likeness of his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which God has created." As stated in an earlier lesson (Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959), the truth is that not only spirit-man existed before mortal birth, but also the rest of God's creation, including vegetation, was spirit. (Moses 3:5.) As the First Presidency, composed of Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund, wrote: By His almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist co-eternally with Himself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes, each after its own kind, spiritually and temporally — "that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." (D & C 77:2.) He made the tadpole and the ape, the lion and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and intelligence (Improvement Era, 13:81, November 1909). This official statement denounces the theory that man has ascended from lower forms of animals as a doctrine that Latter-day Saints cannot accept. We are informed that "the whole animal creation will be perfected and perpetuated in the Hereafter, each class in its 'distinct order or sphere, and will enjoy 'eternal felicity. 'That fact has been made plain in this dispensation" (First Presidency, Improvement Era, 13:81; D & C 77:3-4). This statement clearly affirms that animal and plant creation will be resurrected. (D & C 29:23-25.) Key to History It is plain that in verses 6 and 7 of Section 77, concerning the book with its seven seals, which John saw, there is revealed the period of the earth's temporal existence since the fall of Adam. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 474.) If one determined the meaning of each of the figures symbolizing these seals, as the various horses, the martyrs, etc., mentioned in chapter 6 of the Book of Revelation, he would recognize the general secular history of the earth. The prophetic history is revealed in chapters 12 through 14, with miscellaneous information in the remaining part of the book. LESSON DEPARTMENT Saturday Night of Time Four angels are spoken of in Revelation 7:1 (D & C 77:8) that have power to save and to destroy life. President Joseph Fielding Smith observes that these four angels seem to fit the description of those mentioned in the parable of the wheat and the tares, and he quotes President Wilford Woodruff that these powers are already being manifest on the earth. Furthermore, these messengers are some who have the power of committing the gospel to the earth. (Smiru, JosepH FIELDING: Church History and Modern Revelation, Vol. I, 300-301.) In the twelfth verse of Section 77, the seven thousand years as time periods of the earth's mortality are again mentioned. Elder Orson F. Whitney has emphasized what many other Latter-day prophets have said concerning the period in which we live — these are the last days that are drawing near to the second coming of Christ. The symbolism of the Sabbath, and the symbolism of other days as well, is plainly indicated in the writings of Joseph Smith. In one place he says — or the Lord says through him: "All things have their likeness, and are made to bear record of me." We need not be surprised, therefore, to find among the Prophet's teachings this — I quote from his Key to the Apocalypse [77:6, 12]. "What are we to understand by the book which John saw, which was sealed on the back with seven seals? "We are to understand that it contains the revealed will, mysteries, and the works of God; the hidden things of his economy concerning this earth during the seven thousand years of its continuance, or its temporal existence. "What are we to understand by the sounding of the trumpets, mentioned in the 8th chapter of Revelation? 138 FEBRUARY 1964 "We are to understand that as God made the world in six days, and on the seventh day he finished his work, and sanctified it, and also formed man out of the dust of the earth, even so, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years will the Lord God sanctify the earth, and complete the salvation of man, and judge all things, and shall redeem all things, except that which he hath not put into his power, when he shall have sealed all things, unto the end of all things; and the sounding of the trumpets of the seven angels are the preparing and finishing of his work, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years — the preparing of the way before the time of his coming." The "days" here referred to were not ordinary days of twenty-four hours each, based upon earth's diurnal revolutions. He who "made the world" before placing man upon it, had not then appointed unto Adam His reckoning. [Abraham 5:13]. They were not man's days, but God's days, each having a duration of a thousand years. "The book which John saw" represented the real history of the world — what the eye of God has seen, what the recording angel has written; and the seven thousand years, corresponding to the seven seals of the Apocalyptic volume, are as seven great days during which Mother Earth will fulfill her mortal mission, laboring six days and resting upon the seventh, her period of sanctification. These seven days do not include the period of our planet's creation and preparation as a dwelling place for man. They are limited to Earth's "temporal existence," that ls, to Time, considered as distinct from Eternity. The Prophet's translation of the Book of Abraham explains that those greater days are "after the time" or according to the reckoning of Kolob, a mighty governing planet nearest the Celestial Throne, a planet revolving once in a thousand years. [Abraham 3:4.| This period, then, is a day upon Kolob.... According to received chronology — admittedly imperfect, yet approximately correct — four thousand years, or four of the seven great days given to this planet as the period of its "'temporal existence," had passed before Christ was crucified; while nearly two thousand years have gone 140 by since. Consequently, Earth's long week is now drawing to a close, and we stand at the present moment in the Saturday Evening of Time, at or near the end of the sixth day of human history. Is it not a time for thought, a season for solemn meditation? Morning will break upon the Millennium, the thousand years of peace, the Sabbath of the World! (Saturday Night Thoughts, pp. 10-12.) Special Missionaries In verse 11 of Section 77, we are told that there will be 144,000 high priests selected from the various tribes of Israel to administer the everlasting gospel for those who will come into the Church of the Firstborn. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in speaking of the salvation of the dead, said: I am going on in my progress for eternal life. It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead, but you will have to go through all the ordinances for them, the same as you have gone through to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors on Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number. Oh! I beseech you to go forward, go forward and make your calling and your election sure (DHC VI:36s). Cleansing of the Earth That the Lord has on many occasions inspired his prophets to speak of our times and the future in connection with the cleansing of the earth is very well known. (D & C 5:16-20; 43:18-29; 63:32-37.) The ninth chapter of the Book of Revelation (D & C 77:13) reveals some instruments of destruction that will cleanse the earth. Of these events President Joseph Fielding Smith has written: These terrible events pictured in the ninth chapter of Revelation are now being fulfilled. Part of this we have witnessed, the rest will shortly come to pass. This is, and will be, in the nature of the cleansing process to prepare the earth and its inhabitants, those who will be fortunate enough to remain, for the coming of our Savior when he shall commence his reign for a thousand years upon the earth. The reading of this chapter with the knowledge that the time of its fulfillment is at hand, should cause all men some thoughtful sober thinking (Church History and Modern Revelation, Vol I, page 303). John's Mission In Section 77, verse 14, we are told that the little book which was eaten by John, found in Revelation 10:8-11, is interpreted to be a mission for him to gather the tribes of Israel. This was the beginning of the new dispensation of the gospel after the period of apostasy. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 476-477.) John the Revelator is presently engaged in this mission. In the conference of the Church of June 1831, it is related that: The Spirit of the Lord fell upon Joseph in an unusual manner, and he prophesied that John the Revelator was then among the Ten Tribes of Israel who had been led away by Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, to prepare them for their return from their long dispersion, to again possess LESSON DEPARTMENT the land of their fathers (DHC 1:176, footnote ). Two Witnesses The final verse in Section 77 refers to Revelation, chapter 11, where the two prophets raised up to the Jewish nation in the last days will have power to prevent the destruction of the Jewish people by nations which have come up to battle against Jerusalem. In the process, however, these prophets will have been overcome themselves and then by the power of God restored to life. This episode yet to be enacted in the land of Jerusalem will be mentioned again in a subsequent lesson. Questions for Discussion 1. Give an example of the fact that the Book of Revelation tells of the period before John's time, as well as the future. 2. Why did John address his revelation to the seven branches of the Church in Asia? 3. What are the limitations of Section 77 in understanding the Book of revelation? 4. What is meant by the "Saturday night of time," and what references to this meaning are found in the lesson? Frozen Splendor Gladys Hesser Burnham | Snowflakes hang in frozen splendor Solid, dew-wet, jewels of fog. Every bush and tree is coated Weed and wire, tub and log; All transformed in lacy raiment Frosty touch of icy grace, Hushed and breathless, opaque curtain Hides the sun, her warm embrace. 141 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 56 — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me, Even Jesus Christ, That | Am the Son of the Living God" (D & C 68:6). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To emphasize the fact that a testimony of Jesus Christ, as the Son of the living God, is the most important need in the world today. Own one occasion when Jesus was visiting a city known as Caesarea Philippi, in the north, he asked his disciples who men said that he was. His disciples answered that some believed he was John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremias or one of the other ancient prophets. Then Jesus inquired of his disciples who they thought he was. Simon Peter answered and said, "Thou art the Chnist, the Son of the living God" (Matt. 16:16). During his ministry upon this earth, the Savior knew that if his teachings were to endure and to be effective in the lives of his disciples they must know, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that he was the Christ, the long-promised Messiah, the Son of the living God. If this testimony was important when the Lord was living and teaching upon the earth, it is just as important in our lives today. Not being blessed with the personal presence of our Lord to counsel and guide us, we must live by faith, knowing that his spirit can be with us, if we seek it, and knowing that his teachings 142 are not only the most effective but the only genuine guide we have in this modern, complicated life. When the impressive buildings which now constitute Radio Center were built in the heart of Manhattan, New York, a wise architect inscribed on the walls of the main building the following, "Man's ultimate destiny depends not on whether he can learn new lessons or make new discoveries, or new conquests, but upon his acceptance of the lessons taught him close upon 2,000 years ago." Today we are experiencing earthshaking developments and _ accomplishments in the sciences. We have created remarkable electronic devices which serve and entertain us. We are making marvelous progress in exploring the secrets of space and are even talking about visiting the moon. Yet, none of these accomplishments or conquests will help us solve our basic human problems, nor will they help us in any way to gain eternal salvation, unless we can bear record to the conviction that Jesus is the Christ, that he lived, died, and was resurrected for our salvation and exaltation. Only through this testimony and through a willingness to follow his teachings can we secure peace of mind, true happiness, peace upon this earth, and joy in the world to come. Since the restoration of the gospel in these latter days our Church leaders have borne countless personal testimonies to Christ's reality as the Son of God and have counseled us to strengthen and bear record of our own testimonies. As_ one example of these powerful testimonies from our Church leaders, President McKay bears this record, "With my whole soul I accept Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. Accepting him as my Redeemer, Savior, Lord, it is but logical that I accept his gospel as the plan of salvation, as the one perfect way to happiness and peace' (The Instructor, 99:161, June 1957). As members of his restored Church we have a solemn obligation to build our individual testimonies and to bear record to ourselves and to others that Jesus lives, that he is the son of the living God. How can we build this testimony? The best way to build and strengthen our testimonies is to read of him in the scriptures, learn his commandments, live them. We have been told repeatedly that if we do the things which the Lord tells us, we will know for a certainty that he is our Savior. Jesus said, "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of LESSON DEPARTMENT God, or whether I speak of myself" (John 7:17). We can also strengthen our testimonies both by listening to the testimonies of others and by bearing record ourselves. We should bear this record whenever it is appropriate, to our families, to our friends, and in testimony meetings. Moreover, when we partake of the sacrament worthily, and with singleness of heart, we bear solemn record to the Lord, to ourselves, and to those assembled that we "are willing to take upon [us] the name of thy Son, and always remember him, and keep his commandments... 2". When we partake of the sacrament we should concentrate on thoughts of the Savior and on the blessings our testimony of him brings us. Through strengthening our testimony and bearing record of it we can say with the ancient prophet Job, "I know that my redeemer liveth" (Job 19:25). As expressed in the beautiful hymn, what joy and comfort this conviction brings. President Grant once said, "There is no joy in the world that equals the joy of knowing in your heart that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ" (Moments With the Prophets, page 197). We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants if our testimonies and our lives bear record of our Savior Jesus Christ we have this promise of the Lord, "do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you" (D & C 68:6). Surely no greater blessing can come to anyone. 143 WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 16 — Planning Family Recreation Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To plan family activities constructively that will bring refreshment of strength and spirits after toil. Ir it is true that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and that "all play and no work makes Jack a mere toy," then Jack and his family might well find a course to follow that will avoid these extremes. 'There are Jacks and Janes who never see the sunset, or hear the rolling in of the tide; nor enjoy the beauty of a flower, bird, or tree, nor have time for anything creative on their own. Of course, Jack and Jane must strive for academic excellence, if they are to survive in the twentieth century world. 'They must not be impoverished in experience if they are to understand the moral, social, aesthetic, and spiritual values that give real meaning and purpose to life and enrich the common culture. What educates most is the immediate experience of a child within each situation. Thus the familv educates and is the chief agency through which Jack and Jane may develop some balance in living. Experiences provided through creative activity in the home and through excursions, nature walks, and flying 144 kites, or other family interests help keep the balance. One little Jack, aged five, and his family had an excursion to a cave where he learned about stalactites and stalagmites. He learned to say these tongue-twisters and bought a piece of polished stalactite which started his rock collection. He wanted to know what the rock was made of and what conditions in the cave produced it. Friends and relatives, noting his great interest in rocks, brought him specimens, and after a year there were so many rocks that it looked as if they would take over, and the family would have to move out. After this experience, it is unlikely that Jack, now grown, would build a bomb shelter, but he is on the team to investigate one's tolerance for carbon dioxide while in a submarine and is applying the findings to determine one' tolerance for carbon dioxide while in a space capsule. It is very likely that the family excursion to the cave and the follow-up activities had something to do with Jack's present interests. Another little Jack took to carving animals out of soap after a family excursion to a children's museum. Within a year there were soap animals marching across the mantel and on every bookshelf, and enough soap shavings to do the family wash. The soap menagerie increased as nature walks introduced new subjects and the interest progressed to the media of wood and clay. At age thirty, the Christmas present to the five children and his wife was a bust of each which had been molded in clay, then cast. This was a creative experience in which all six participated. A victim of polio was a paraplegic at age one. At forty-one he could look at his family with pride, and at his comfortable home and mountain cabin, and car that he could drive, and feel a great sense of accomplishment in not owing anyone and being able to support himself and family. This remarkable achievement can be traced back to excursions with his father to the smelter to see the big time clock which his father repaired. He developed a keen interest in clocks and watches and learned all the intricacies of the trade, enough to earn his livelihood. Where do ideas begin that help to make a life? Seeds are planted early, and what may seem to be casual, unimportant events may have ingredients for greatness, if pursued. Excursions, nature walks, visits to museums, and backyard picnics provide experiences for enLESSON: DEPARTMENT richment throughout life and should be part of the weekly schedule. 'The vacation in the mountains or at the seashore takes long-time planning and budgeting, but the happy memories of such events bring dividends, year after year. Recreation, by definition, is "'refreshment of strength and _ spirits after toil; diversion; play; to recreate." No better example of "refreshment of strength and _ spirits after toil" could be seen than families of Thailand flying kites in the high wind. In most instances each family member helps to make his own kite. There are boy kites and gitl kites, and large and small ones, each with its own distinctive pattern. All ages participate in the sheer joy of the majestic sky dance of the kites. They laugh and shout and sing as the wind blows through their hair and wraps their sarongs and pakimas more tightly about them. After a day with the kites they can say Mai Pen. Rai (never mind) more easily as they meet problems and troubles along life's way. What is more precious than the memories of happy hours when mother and father, sons and daughters, meet together to laugh and play and bring refreshment of strength and spirit, and a bond of family togetherness greater than before? What "recreative" activities do you share with your family week by week? And what are your plans for some soul-lifting days away from home in the year ahead? 145 LITERATURE @ America's Literature The Last Hundred Years Lesson 48 — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer (1878- ) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 850-854) For Third Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To understand and enjoy Carl Sandburg's substantial contribution to the American tradition. Ir is altogether fitting that, of the multifarious voices out of the living past which have brought us to ourselves, it is Carl Sandburg's which is to be sounded last. Not one of America's greatest poets, he is nevertheless one of her great lovers, here standing foremost in the 1960's with two of her great immortals who have most influenced his beliefs and his method, namely, Lincoln and Whitman. Having worked as a common laborer, he is well aware of the commonplace, while at the same time proud to be self-appointed singer to these, his own people. Timeless in their rugged integrity and blundering strength, to him they are the world's best hope. As he wrote in 1936, a period in the United States' history when a collective soul-searching and a profound self-appraisal were most needed: The people will live on. The learning and blundering people will live on. Between the finite limitations of the five senses 146 and the endless yearnings of man for the beyond the people hold to the humdrum bidding of work and food while reaching out when it comes their way for lights beyond the prison of the five senses, for keepsakes lasting beyond any hunger or death. This reaching is alive. The people know the salt of the sea and the strength of the winds lashing the corners of the earth. The people take the earth as a tomb of rest and a cradle of hone. Who else speaks for the Family of Man? They are in tune and step with constellations of universal law. In the darkness with a great bundle of grief the people march. In the night, and overhead a shovel of stars for keeps, the people march: "Where to? What next?" (From The People, Yes, by Cart SAnpDBURG, Copyright 1936 by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc. Reprinted by permission of the publishers. See text, pp. 853-854.) Sandburg's Life Charles Sandburg was born on a cornhusk mattress in 1878 in Galesburg, Illinois, the son of Swedish im- _ answered questions. Even more restless. Migrant parents. His father, who could read with difficulty and who signed his mortgage with "X, his mark," worked for twenty-four years as blacksmith's helper in the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy shops, receiving six dollars a week for six ten-hour days except on Fourth of July, Thanksgiving, and Christmas, no work, no pay. His father was a member of the Swedish Lutheran Church and the Republican Party, but his real faith was in his hands; with them he could make and do wonders. "In a way he was superior to books," Carl remembers. His mother, a gentle, peaceful soul, taught her son that "There are so many interesting things in life — wonders made by God for us to think about." Carl heard her message, caught her spirit, claiming that from his sixth year when his chubby hands first learned to form the letters of the alphabet, he determined to excel in words. But what and how were the unAt thirteen he left the eighth grade to wander _ about the raw Midwest vainly tr ing to find himself, as hobo, field hand, railroad laborer, painter, dishwasher, fireman, milkman — jobs which bored him' and made him Yet from these seven years before he entered Lombard College he gained his lifelong sympathy with the working classes, revealed in such poems as "I Am the People, the Mob," "Fish Crier," "Psalm of Those Who Go Forth Before Daylight," and "Prayers of » Steel." Such experiences also made him a militant supporter of William Jennings Bryan, the common people's silver-tongued orator. The day LESSON DEPARTMENT after the Spanish-American War was declared he enlisted for eight months, returning home to Galesburg, "The Athens of the Corn Belt," to work nights as a fireman while attending Lombard College for the next four years. He left without a degree (though he has since received thirty-two honorary doctorates and two Pulitzer prizes). For eight more years after college he traveled about the Midwest, first selling stereopticon projections, later as organizer for the Wisconsin Socialist Democratic Party, but always scribbling bits of poetry, and always being one with the working classes, playing his guitar with them, and writing down for the first time the folk songs they taught him. In 1908, when he was thirty, he married Lillian (Paula) Steichen, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Chicago, sister of Edward Steichen, today one of the world's greatest += photographers. These two were major influences upon his life. A third influence came through his association with Philip Green Wright, Lombard's professor of English, mathematics, astronomy, and - economics who sought to "stir us into action in order to see what would happen." Dominated by a strong social consciousness, Wright formed a student club for the discussion of current writings including those of Sandburg, in whose talent' he had great faith. In 1904 and 1905 Wright published Sandburg's first three slim books. From 1910 to 1912 Sandburg was private secretary to Emil Seidel, Socialist mayor of Milwaukee, after which he moved to Chicago where 147 FEBRUARY 1964 he worked as a journalist for various Chicago Papers. The appearance of his poem "Chicago"; ated a sensation Which launched his North Carolina. Here the » IndePendent life, surrounded by 246 acres of stazing and Woodland. Sandburg, the People's Poet Carl] Sandburg Considers Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass to be one of the greatest Contributions from the United States to the world community, ile each Poet has achieveg a style and idiom uniquely his Own, the resemblance between W and Sandburg Is little less than overitman's cadenced, untreating subjects The fog comes On little cat feet. It sits looking Over habour and cj on silent haunches and then MoOves on. (From Chicago Poems by Carl Sandburg. Copyright 1916 by Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc. Copyright renewed 1944 by Carl Sandburg. Reprinted by permission of Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc. ) Sandburg's hatred for war is memorably understated with subdued irony in his "Grass." (Places named were scenes of battles in the Napoleonic, Civil, and First World Wars.) How soon the past loses all identity as life goes on and new generations live indifferent and secure in their present patterns! Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo Shovel them under and let me work — I am the grass; I cover all. And pile them high at Gettysburg And pile them high at Ypres and Verdun. Shovel them under and let me work. Two years, ten years, and passengers ask the conductor: What place is this? Where are we now? I am the grass. Let me work. (From Cornhuskers, by Carl Sandburg. Copyright 1918 by Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc. Copyright renewed 1946 by Carl Sandburg. Reprinted by permission of Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.) From first-hand knowledge he writes of farm life, labor gangs, factories, city streets — over 675 pages in his Complete Poems ( 1950). And when he was interviewed in December 1961, at age eighty-three, he was currently working on three ' hundred poems, preparing them for ' €ventual publication. Space forbids ' Including "The Sins of Kalamazoo," a mystical haunting appraisal of the mass mediocrity and lack of vision Which are a constant threat to de- - mocracy, but its folk-wisdom, wIy ) and unpredictable, justifies "Maybe": LESSON DEPARTMENT Maybe he believes me, maybe not. Maybe I can marry him, maybe not. Maybe the wind on the prairie, The wind on the sea, maybe, Somebody somewhere, maybe, can tell. I will lay my head on his shoulder And when he asks me I will Say yes, Maybe. (From Good Morning, America, copyright 1928, 1956 by Cart SanpBurc. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.) Space shortage alone forbids inclusion of "A Couple," a tender definition of the "togetherness" which has ever been the mainstay of the American home, particularly when sharpened by the loneliness devout marriage partners know when the man's job takes him away from home. But one poem which cannot be omitted is "Worms and the Wind," as delightful yet as biting a satire on smugness as any American poet has produced. Worms would rather be worms. Ask a worm and he says, "Who knows what a worm knows?" Worms go down and up and over and under. Worms like tunnels. When worms talk they talk about the worm world. Worms like it in the dark. Neither the sun nor the moon interests a worm. Zigzag worms hate circle worms. Curve worms never trust Square worms. Worms know what worms want. Slide worms are suspicious of crawl worms. One worm asks another, "How does your belly drag today?" The shape of a crooked worm satisfies a crooked worm. A straight worm says, "Why not be straight?" Worms tired of crawling begin to slither. Long worms slither farther than short worms. Middle-sized worms say, "It is nice to be neither long nor short.".,. 149 FEBRUARY 1964 Worms underground never hear the wind overground and sometimes they ask, "What is this wind we hear of?" (From Complete Poems, copyright, 1950, by Cart Sanppurc. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Brace &. World, Inc.) Sandburg, the People's Singer Even before 1920 Carl discovered that, while an audience loved listening to him reading his poems, they loved him even more if he ended the evening by slinging his guitar over his shoulder and strumming his own accompaniment while he sang some of the folk ballads he had been collecting and memorizing since his early teens, and which he published in The American Songbag (1927), republished by Broadcast Music, Inc., as The New American Songbag (1960). As anyone who has ever heard the deliberate, unique cadences and caressed, mellow tones of his spoken voice instantly recognizes, he has always loved music until he has made it a vital part of himself. Music is my way of resting. When I am tense and written-out, or when I am tired from walking, thirty minutes of playing and singing will work wonders for me. Why, it's my medicine. More people ought to know what making your own music can do for you (Etude, September 1955, page 42. Reprinted by permission of Theodore Presser Company). At home in "Connemara," North Carolina, he has a guitar case in almost every room, and spontaneously bursts into a song, with or without guitar accompaniment, whenever the spirit moves him. While all poetry lives only when it is heard, Sandburg's poems are not entirely created, nor can the listener completely possess them, 150 until Sandburg sounds them within himself into his unforgettable singing prose. Never have words been loved more tenderly, yet deeply, as he croons the overly sustained vowels, slowly enunciating each syllable — soft, then loud — then quick, pause, slow and climax until he remakes our old, worn language into a fresh, original communicative tool we have never known previously. Sardburg, the People's Biographer One of Carl Sandburg's central beliefs is his firm conviction that our Nation's best hope lies in men with "free imaginations, bringing changes into a world resenting change." This credo he has built into his own life. No other major literary figure in the United States has achieved excellence in poetry, folk song, essay, novel, autobiography and biography. Change and continuing growth have been the pattern of his career, a growth not terminated at age eightythree when he climaxed four years of research by writing most of the script for the movie The Greatest Story Ever Told. He first knew literary fame as a poet, and has ever remained one, but a poet of unique versatility, whose supreme accomplishment will probably prove to be his monumental biography of Abraham Lincoln, a book which only an American poet could write. During his Galesburg youth young Carl had known men who had fought for Lincoln and the Union. Lincoln and Douglas had debated in Galesburg, a memory reality within him which he could never ignore. Begun in the early 1920's as a story of Lincoln's life for children, Sandburg's six-volume biog: raphy has earned wide acceptance over the decades as the best, largest, deepest, and truest access our generation has to our greatest American and the legend which surrounds and sustains him. But in striving so successfully to create an image of Lincoln which will endure, simultaneously Sandburg has created a lesser legend which envelops himself as Lincoln's biographer. It was this growing legend which was nurtured by Sandburg's address to the Eighty-Sixth Congress in 1959, one of two civilians ever to have been so honored. His subject was Abraham Lincoln, born 150 years earlier. But in making Lincoln live for his contemporaries, Sandburg has inadvertently drawn heavily from Sandburg, the patient researcher and sympathetic artist. 'This constitutes the unique source of the book's power. Ideally the two seem to complement each other. The following excerpts from "A Lincoln Preface' fairly exemplify the thoroughness of Sandburg's research and the casual yet powerful identity with Lincoln which immediately arises like a half-remembered personal nostalgia from the cold printed page, but a page now chosen and ordered by a poet blessed with superb human insight and selective powers. In the time of the April lilacs in the year 1865, a man in the City of Washington, D. C., trusted a guard to watch at a door, and the guard was careless, left the door, and the man was shot, lingered a night, passed away, was laid in a box, and carried north and west a thousand miles; bells sobbed; cities wore crepe; people stood with hats off as the railroad LESSON DEPARTMENT burial car came past at midnight, dawn or noon. When the woman who wrote Uncle Tom's Cabin came to see him in the White House, he greeted her, "So you're the little woman who wrote the book that made this great war," and as they seated themselves at a fireplace, "I @o love an open fire; I always had one to home." As they were finishing their talk of the days of blood, he said, "I shan't last long after it's over." His life, mind and heart ran in contrasts. When his white kid gloves broke into tatters while shaking hands at a White House reception, he remarked, "This looks like a general bustification.... He was a chosen spokesman; yet there were times he was silent; nothing but silence could at those times have fitted a chosen spokesman; in the mixed shame and blame of the immense wrongs of two crashing civilizations, with nothing to say, he said nothing, slept not at all, and wept at those times in a way that made weeping appropriate, decent, majestic. (From The Sandburg Range, Harcourt, Brace and Company 1957, PP. 351-353: Copyright, 1953, by Cari SANDBURG. Reprinted by permission of the publishers. ) Sandburg's portrait of Lincoln might possibly be surpassed, but until such a remote day arrives, it ls our best national biography, of greatness, by greatness, and for a future universal greatness arising from masses of common men made uncommon by their realization that such men have lived. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Prove that poetry and music have unified Sandburg's life. 2. If you were to write a short paper on "The Education of Carl Sandburg," what specific points would you emphasize? "What conclusions would you reach? _ Discuss "free men of imagination" and "resistance to change" as they fit into Carl Sandburg's personal philosophy. 151 SOCIAL SCIENCE °¢ Divine Law and Church Government ': [ts Organization and Structure Lesson 14 — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church Elder Anil S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the structure and operation of Church government. The Church is the body of believers, organized [by the Priesthood] according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers, and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth (Wiptsor, Joun A.: Program of the Church, 1941 edition, page 22). Zion, ""The pure in heart," the kingdom of God here upon the earth, is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and no other, and with its divinely restored power of the priesthood of the Living God, with its ordinances, organizations, agencies, and facilities, and with its message of pure, eternal gospel truth, it reaches out the hand of fellowship to the whole human family, to lead our Father's children into transcendent joy, eternal progress, and the presence of our Lord (RicHarps, STEPHEN L: Where Is Wisdom? Page 406). The Priesthood is a dynamic creative power and a directing force upon the earth. Adam held the Holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God. In the various dispensations of time, God has activated his Priesthood, instituted his government, and offered his services to the human family. Having in mind the welfare of his children and being constantly 152 aware of the purpose of creation, God has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth today. In it there is a fulness of the gospel being administered by his authorized agents. 'This means that' all the wisdom, counsel, and direction (divine law), that God has ever revealed to man to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation have been restored. The Restoration of the Priesthood The 6th of April, 1830, was both a climax and a beginning in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The major event in its history took place in a grove in early spring of 1820. In this quiet, peaceful place the testimony of the ancient scriptures was verified as the boy Joseph Smith beheld the Father and the Son. Their declaration to him, that the Church of God was not upon the earth, began a chain of events that climaxed in the organization of the Church. These events included instruction and training by heavenly messengers, the key events happening in May and June of 1829, when the power and authority to act officially for God upon the earth were conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by John the Baptist and apostles Peter, James, and John, the men Christ had chosen in the meridian of time to head his Church following the crucifixion. Shortly after the restoration of the Priesthood, the translation' of The Book of Mormon was completed. It became a new witness for God testifying of the mission of Jesus Christ. With the Holy Priesthood as his authority to act and the witness to the world of the fulness of the gospel contained in The Book of Mormon, the Prophet Joseph brought the first phase of his work to a focal point with the orgnization of the Church. Church Government Is the Priesthood in Action It is most significant to note how little attention was given to the structure of Church government until the Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and Oliver. We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof (Fifth Article of Faith). After the Priesthood was given to them, Joseph and Oliver explained ) the principles of the gospel, baptized ) those who received a testimony, and - then set up the official organization LESSON DEPARTMENT and government of the Church (see Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants). Patterned after the structure of the Church Jesus had established while he was upon the earth. The Enlightenment of the Holy Ghost The Prophet Joseph informs us that immediately following their baptism, the Holy Ghost fell upon them and they prophesied of important things to come. Joseph says: Our minds being now enlightened, we began to have the scriptures laid open to our understandings, and the true meaning and intention of their more mysterious passages revealed unto us in a manner which we never could attain to previously, nor ever before had thought of... (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:74). After receiving the authority of the Priesthood and the enlightenment of mind from the Holy Ghost, the Church was organized. Through the process of inquiry and revelation, the Prophet received the detail of the structure and government of the Church, not all at once, but step by step until an organization unequaled by the efforts of man, has been perfected. The Sacredness of Priesthood Callings In our course of study we are concerned with the fact that the Priesthood was restored and is the basis upon which Church government and organization are built. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was not founded upon protests against the alleged mistakes of any existing Churches. It was founded 153 BEAUTIFUL - SACRED MUSIC THREE PART WOMEN'S CHORUSES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD I GO Schumann'.20 GOD IS LOVE 00 Shelley.20 HEAVENS ARE TELLING Haydn.25 IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMMANDMENTS Madsen.25 IN THY FORM Madsen'.20 LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY -Stephens.20 LO, MY SHEPHERD IS DIVINE —_ iHaydn.22 LORD'S PRAYER Gates.20 LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE Madsen.20 MY REDEEMER LIVES Gates.20 O DAY OF REST AND GLADNESS Schumann.20 OMNIPOTENCE Schubert.20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South 1! Salt Lake City 11, Utah i Please send the music indicated above. 1 1 [] On Approval [] Charge [] Money Enclosed | | Name | Address 1 i 1 City and State Daynes Mise | badbaad 15 E. Ist South! 3 SE es ee ee oe ee eee es ee se ee 2 ee ee ee eee ee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee a a oe ee ee et ee ee ee ee Se Set ees we,? Salt Lake City 11, Utah by the Priesthood of God through direct instructions from Christ himself. We must keep in mind that every office and calling in the Pnesthood, both Aaronic and Melchizedek, is sacred and important to the work of the Lord. To be ordained to a calling in the Priesthood is a distinction, and to function in the government of the Church is an honor and a blessing. To be worthy to act as the authorized agent of God, exercising his power among men, demands God-like actions in all areas of human behavior. The nearer men come to perfection, the greater their effectiveness in their Priesthood callings. Therefore, as the body of the Priesthood _ bearers achieve this perfection, it is reflected in the operation of the Church. The Worth of Souls The importance of the Priesthood in Church government is pointed out in the above discussions. Nothing can be done officially without the authority of the Priesthood. It should also be pointed out that the government of the Church, the total organization and program of the Church, are designed by the Creator for the welfare of man. There is much evidence to support the statement that God's major purpose and concern is the perfection of man. For example, in the beginning all the intelligences existed coeternally with God. The personality of man _ becomes sacred by the fact of the spiritual Fatherhood of God; and as a major evidence he, the Father, gave his Only Begotten Son as a LESSON DEPARTMENT Sacrifice to Open the Way for all LET S Lp: mankind to have "verlasting life 'oon FRETRAVEL Whenever the urch of Gog has To ©€n upon the rth, j Major dut HAWaI! End SOurH PACIFIC has been to in Mankind of the (New low fares) Purpose of life, man' telationshj _ to God and to man, and to make 2] — eee Tours Man aware of his own POSsibilities (Save 39%) i T€sPonsibilities 48 a child of HE HOLy LAND: includ Egypt, 1 bano Jordan Israel} Calling Cople to Fepentance, or withers" Gjreces anette! - ~ tO accept the Pattern of Jife that Il assure t of their STeatest HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT accomplishments In lif an exaltaincluding World's Fait', New York 10N in the Celestia] kingdom, Is the (With Dr 7 Edgar Lyon) Bo assignment of he Priest. Vai eal come and MURDOcK TRAVEL, INC (Bonded) P F lesth d Quor Ums and (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) Church Organization 4 South Main Street To bee €ctive in the lives of peo Ple and; the 6 | Such as "8, quorum of CY administer the Church Stake, Ward SSI S€rvices; (: ) to aU pertains to th Handbook, Page 21.) The quorum st, 4S an organized body of the P hood implies Usiness | Patriarchs ] Standard of 18N priests' Mission Presidents, cletks, ang high Councilors | S (without | h member. Ion from a Genera] ©, Assistants to the residents of ained high PProved by the > ANd Is set apart by € Proper Genera] Authoritie POUR Ob j.. | then Proceed to gal] the neces anch Presidencjes When Tanches ar In the adminis. Trative Officers and Organizatio Its €€0graphic units. Emment j; Y a president called - and 5 IS the function of Priesthoo the First Presi- " President with Ors preside jn the Tanch and dj © presidents aT€ appointed an ~ Fresident, with his part by them Ounselors, the "uorum of the | Welve, the Pa larch € missio Counsel] d set 'Y Tepresent the Irst Tesidency an Conduct the sie Ssistants Officia] business Of the mice; to the Twelve, the even Presiden ts of Seventy, and t di Optic MISsion yper the direction of the F; e residing Bish. Ncy, Constitute the Gen porting units to the branches, wards, stakes, and missions. They provide the manpower that the officers of these organized units need, in order to carry out the program of the Church. The ecclesiastical line of authority governs and operates the program of the Church. The Priesthood line of authority is responsible for developing leadership abilities in each quorum member through the Priesthood objectives. All Church members are subject to call by the proper ecclesiastical authority to fill the offices in the Church program of branch, ward, stake, or Church. Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints means activity in a good cause. It calls for an applied testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only..." (James 1:22). As has been indicated, the quorum is the training ground for leadership in the Church. An important characteristic of leadership is how to be a good follower. Quorum membership implies a desire to prepare, to Improve one's ability to do something for others and do it to the best of one's ability. Ward and branch membership is the place where this preparation is put into action. The Gospel of Repentance The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of repentance. Christ gave mankind a perfect example and presented a way of life that would lead to perfection. "Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17). The call to repentance is extended to people everywhere, in all walks LESSON DEPARTMENT WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include Pageant). — 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. =< All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. <p Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 and stations of life. The great objective is to bring all mankind into the light, knowledge, and wisdom of the Creator. This is the only approach to perfection. Any individual who does not do as well as he knows how has need of repentance. People should never stop extending their knowledge of all that is good. In the program of the Church, the idea of repentance is given constant attention. Human nature must be disciplined. The appetites of man must be controlled for his own good and advancement. True repentance means a _ permanent change in behavior. The plan of life and salvation teaches all men the value and benefit of righteous living. The wayward are given special attention with the hope that they will recognize their mistakes, exercise their agency, and 157 FEBRUARY 1964 elect to follow the design of the Creator. The emphasis of divine law is on rehabilitation of the wayward through wisdom, guidance, mercy, and love. The courts or councils of justice in the Church are designed to bring people to repentance. They are to bring to light the truth in the case, not to condemn and destroy, but to encourage re-orientation of life in harmony with the eternal values of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even when it is necessary for the Church court to pronounce the severe action of excommunication, forgiveness must always be in the hearts of the members of the Church. Jesus said he would forgive whom he would, but we as individuals must forgive all. The authorized judge in a Church court is not required to forgive the sins of individuals, but may be in a position where he must exact severe penalties. Certainly every judge, however, should have the spirit of forgiveness in his heart. It must be remembered that councils of justice are helpful, even essential, to personal development of offenders in that they tend to stimulate the art of discipline and self-control. The courts of the Church support and sustain the high ideals and values in our way of life. It should be remembered that love is the real motivation of the Priesthood and should be basic to all human association. Certainly the dispensing of justice in the Church courts should be as full of mercy as is assured by the Master, himself. 158 Church Government Was Initiated for Man's Advancement Jesus dedicated his life to the service of his fellow men. This is the pattern he set for each person who enjoys membership in his Church and kingdom. Every person in the Church is a potential leader and if each one follows the program of the Church, he can prepare himself to perform any duty assigned him in the Church. One needs humility, sincerity, faith, and a willingness to work hard, to be successful as an officer or teacher. The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. 'The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. 'The responsibilities require service to others, assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds a confidence and competency in his leadership. The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind. References Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18; 20; 27; 42; 43; 58; 102; 107; 114; 115; 121; 127; and 132. WiptsoE, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 9; 10; 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; and 18. SMITH, JosEPH Fretpinc: Essentials in Church History, Chapter 9. Pearl of Great Price: Joseph Smith. Articles of Faith, Chapters 10; 20; 23; 24. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What evidence can you give of the divinity of the Church? 2. What is the real objective of Church government and organization?. Why was it necessary to restore the Priesthood before the organization of Church government? 4. Accepting the fact that the Priesthood is the power of God and that Church government is this power in action, what importance do we give the program of the Church in our everyday life? 5. How important are the principles of repentance and forgiveness in the operation of Church government? 6. How important are you as an individual to the operation of Church government? BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Ere EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, —_— DPESERET[REwS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 ZIMS Established 1932 ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFT MATERIALS — AND ALL THE OLD FAVORITES. Send 25c for new 1964 catalog, and receive, free, our newest booklet, "Satin Wrappin' " — directions for ribbonwrapped styrofoam novelties. Cost of catalog deductible from first order. Discounts to Groups — Dealer Inquiries Invited ZIMS 240 E. 2nd So. Salt Lake City, Utah HAWAII Next Hawaiian Tour Depart February 1964 j—— MEXICO — JUNE 1964 and once each month thereafter —— WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Al Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 159 Mrs. CATHERINE JOHNSON ERICKSON Monroe, Utah Mrs. Mary ANN Batty SMITH Randolph, Utah Mrs. ELLEN JOHANNA LARSON SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. MARIE SORENSEN JENSEN Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Mary M. G. MorGcan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ELIZABETH GOULDING STRAUSER Sullivan, Missouri Mrs. MAry ELIZABETH DAVIS Buck Valley, Pennsylvania Miss Grace MINOT. St. Petersburg, Florida Mrs. Mary ANN COLE FRANCOM Tremonton, Utah Mrs. ELIZABETH E. SLADE CARROLL Mancos, Colorado Mrs. EviIzA SORENSEN FACKRELL Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. ELLEN ENGLAND MILLER Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. DIANA MerRITT BLEAZARD Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. GENITHA EDITH CARTER DENTON Trenton, Tennessee C ss Gee 7 Mrs. JENNIE PARRISH STEWART Centerville, Utah T. = ne 4 70 2 Mrs. CHARLETTE WILSON NICHOLS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EMMA OTTESON HALVERSON Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. SARAH SEELY LARSEN Castle Dale, Utah —— Mrs. ALMA G. WATSON McGREGOR Provo, Utah Mrs. CARRIE FREEMAN TOMLIN Maramec, Oklahoma Mrs. ANNIE M. ANDERSON Dallas, Texas Mrs. RutH E. Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. MINNIE HEGSTEAD TAYLOR Salt Lake City, Utah be Mrs. MARIA JANE EARNSHAW Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada Mrs. SARAH WALTERS JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. HENRIETTA MCCLOY LARSEN American Fork, Utah Mrs. Mary ANN McGUIRE CHAMBERS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CAROLINE RINGEL STEED Ogden, Utah Mrs. DIANTHA SANDERSON Fairview, Utah Mrs. ELLEN JANE BOWEN GRAHAM Salt Lake City, Utah 1 THE FALLACY by Alvin R. Dyer Elder Dyer, Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve, analyzes fundamental principles of the LDS Church. His analysis clarifies the position taken by the Reorganized Church and then provides answers to this position and indicates the weakness of the latter's reasoning in the light of both scripture and history. $3.95 Tee eee eee TST Pe Pee eae 2 AND THEY SHALL TEACH THEIR CHILDREN by Reed H. Bradford A professional provides directives in the rearing of children that every Latter-day Saint parent will want to read. As a doctor of Reed Bradford is well qualified to author such a philosophy, book. As a fervent member of the LDS Church, he has the testimony to make him eminently capable of handling this subject for Latter-day Saints. $3.50 eS 3 AT THE FOUNTAIN by Albert L. Zobell, Jr. A handy pocket size book of quotations from General Authorities of the LDS Church; alphabetically-arranged for greatit is er usefulness to speakers, teachThe quotations succinctly nail down ers, writers and readers. Gospel principles. $1.00 Deseret Book COM PANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 7717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Gau BURR Re. Deseret Book Company 4A. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check [] money order [] I have an account, please charge []. Amount enclosed $.. On For the encircled numbered books. Name Residents of Utah please add 342% sales tax. Cus SBEREEEA 1 2 3 a 2 © ee we Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah: I hope I never have a more urgent I'll never, ever forget need for cash than I did last February. P If I do, I'm sure my hair will turn The day the roof fell in! White. I was buying six trucks on contract and business reverses had caused me to miss four payments. The company set final deadline for payment at 10:00 a. M. On Friday. I tried frantically to get another extension. The company, however, seemed determined to tie up the trucks. They wouldn't give me time to refinance, and at that time banks were not loaning money for truck payments. I was desperate. It seemed I would lose all of my past years of hard work as well as my investment. Shortly I would be out of business and out of a job. It was the most discouraging day of my life. Then I ran into my Beneficial agent. How happy I was when he reminded me that in my life insurance there was a cash loan value. I'd never dreamed it would be enough to save my investment. Four days later I held in my hand an airmail envelope containing a check for $3,500. It really saved the day! I plan now to return the money to the company later in the year, because I've learned that I don't have to die to make my life insurance useful. Some people claim to be "insurance poor." Well, I'm "insurance rich!" From the Beneficial Life Files. BENEFICIAL LIFE Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah
