Volume 51 Number 9 September 1964 Lessons for December Christie Lund Coles Summer is gone — deftly, greenly drawn — Autumn supplants her with its fiery leaves; Its birds that peep more warily at dawn; Its croak of frogs; its wind that softly grieves; Now is the time for stubble on the land; For skies mist-hidden by the hazy air; For the musk of withered flowers in the hand; For fruit too heavy for the bough to bear; This is not only death, but triumph, too, For rich fulfillment and the pearly frost; For hills that wear a more flamboyant hue; For sustenance against the summer, lost. This is the harvest, jeweled and inlaid. How good the sun against the infrequent shade! The Cover: Relief Society Singing Mothers in Front of the Mormon Pavilion at the New York World's Fair, June 24, 1964. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Mirror Lake, Near Lake Placid, New York Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes Ilustrations: Mary Scopes 641 | cannot go out to Relief Society meetings now, but | read every word of the Magazine. In the June issue the picture of Sister McKay was very lovely. | enjoyed the story ''The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday," by Helen Nielson, which emphasizes kindness and good family ties. It was a pleasure to read ''Happiness in Flower Arranging,'' by Maude W. Howard. Thanks so much for the Magazine. Frances R. Stoker Ogden, Utah The sewing hints and patterns which have been published in The Relief Society Magazine are very interesting. The recipes, too, are delightful to use. In fact, the whole Magazine has all the better features of any magazine, especially the stories and poems, so clean and refreshing. Margaret Perry Junction City, Kansas | am so glad every month that | have The Relief Society Magazine in my letterbox. I love the Magazine. | learn so many new things when | read the Magazine. | am living in Malmo, Sweden, and in our branch here there are many subscribers to the Magazine.! Also learn to read English more easily and to speak more correctly by reading the Magazine. Mrs. C. Fryksmo Malmo, Sweden After reading Lois Tanner's article in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine, ''A Tribute to. Relief Society Presidents,' | was sure she meant our Relief Society president Janene Bates. She makes each member feel important and needed. Her smile at meetings seems to be especially for each sister, although there are dozens of us there. | love Relief Society, the lessons, and the Magazine. Gladys Morrison Susanville, California 642 | especially love the beautiful colored pictures used as covers for The Relief Society Magazine, so imagine how pleased | was when | found this joy shared by another. Who was that other? A young missionary here in the North British Mission. He came visiting when | had my Magazines out for binding. His first words when he entered the room were: ''Oh, Relief Society Magazines! There may be a picture of my mountains.'"' Where are his mountains? American Fork, Utah. We found two pictures: the cover for September 1963, and the frontispiece for October 1963. What a joy this brought to one so far from home. Elsie Lee Whitefield, Lancashire England | am a young homemaker married just one year. The Relief Society Magazine is truly one of the highlights of my life. The stories are always heartwarming and tender, and | especially enjoy the sewing hints. Words cannot express the love and deep admiration | have for the Magazine. Carol Hood Blackhurst Pleasant Grove, Utah | enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful. —Eileen Mecham Cleland Rawlins, Wyoming | think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. | want especially to thank-Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher meassages. | often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings. —Rayella Richardson Santa Barbara, California The Relief S ociety Magazine oO. 

Volume 51 September 1964 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 645 The Presence of a Prophet 647 Nursing and Nurse Training in Relief Society Irene B. Woodford 666 Relief Society Magazine Receives Outstanding Award 668 Singing Mothers Concerts at the New York World's Fair Marianne C. Sharp 672 Relief Society History and Activities (Distributed at Singing Mothers Concerts, New York World's Fair, June 24-25, 1964) Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 654 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 8 (Cenclusion) Hazel M. Thomson 660 Mr. Lewis and the Ravens — Part II Ilene H. Kingsbury 691 Snakes, Snails, and Puppy Dog Tails Janice Dixon General Features 642 663 664 667 690 695 720 From Near and Far Placing The Relief Society Magazine in Public Libraries Ferrel Christensen Editorial: The Standard of Liberty Vesta P. Crawford Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Hannah Nyquist Specializes in Making Afghans and Rugs Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker Birthday Congratulations Lessons for December 702 Theology — The Church Independent Roy W. Doxey 708 Visiting Teacher Message — ''Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor." Christine H. Robinson 710 Work Meeting — Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine 712 Literature — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part I Bruce B. Clark 717 Social Science — No Lesson for December Poetry 641 How Good the Sun— Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles Wide Autumn, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 666; Old Wagon Wheel, by Jeanette Swanson, 694; On Seeing a Son off to School, by Evalyn M. Sandberg, 707; Autumn Raiment, by Ethel Jacobson, 709 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so thot no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.° Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

THe presence of prophet Birthday Greetings to President David O McKay for his Ninety-First Birthday September 8, 1964. Wherefore, we search the prophets, and we have many revelations and the spirit of prophecy; and having all these witnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken . . . for the Spirit speaketh the truth . . . for he also spake . . . unto the prophets of old (Jacob 4:6, 13). At this time when ummer Prepares for approaching autumn lie S to leave the n S along the rid ration and great sc omplishments, a leader, and as a, et, Perhaps de thousands of C nd most Precious to Cc members, jg the test; on 4 prophet of the Lord lives g the man estim y, the CONViction that €&S amo S and bears Witness of Jesus the Christ and the restoration Of the Everlast NE gospel in t appointed time and Place Man thousands among the Nations, the young and the old those of various lan ages, in Senerous op earned ones, and those of ] the Presence Meager Conditions the esser °PPortunity — of the Prophet, and thereby have Spiritua] blessing SEPTEMBER 1964 of a Prophet. I have heard his voice, and I have looked upon his face." A young child, standing near the Tabernacle door at conference time, looked from his small stature to the tall height of President McKay and reached up his hand, confident and joyful to participate in a privilege and a blessing. A student, learned in the prophetic teachings of the Bible, and, after being converted to the Church, an ardent reader of The Book of Mormon, has testified that when she was privileged to meet President McKay, personally, she felt a sense of joy and exultation which still abides with her, because she felt that she stood in a similar atmosphere of faith and strength, as surrounded the prophets of old —those who in former generations testified of everlasting truth. Now that the stakes of the Church number nearly four hundred, and the missions have increased throughout the world, the voice and the words, and the presence of the prophet give strength, wisdom, and a radiant spiritual uplifting to new members of the Church, as well as to those who were born within its folds. It is well that, in this time of world-encircling communication, the message and the testimony of the prophet, President David O. McKay, have been taken by television and by radio and by the printed word even to those few distant places wherein President McKay has not traveled. Relief Society women in their responsibilities as wives and homemakers, as exemplars and teachers for their children, and as leaders among women, in all of these callings the sisters rejoice in the testimony of President McKay. He has spoken as the prophet words of truth that shall be treasured throughout the generations, words that have guided and inspired the people of this day, words that will be a heritage in the time to come, for as the prophet Nephi declared long ago, the words and the teachings and the testimony of a prophet are for all people in all time. They "shall go from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go according to the will and pleasure of God; and the nations who shall possess them shall be judged of them according to the words which are written" (2 Nephi 25:22). Among the many treasured declarations of President McKay, in his testimonies of the truthfulness of the gospel, words such as these are with us as a continuing blessing: Out of eternity come the years and into eternity they go... What then should be man's greatest purpose as he marks one by one the passing years? It should be to cherish those attributes which, like his soul, will endure and brighten throughout all eternity. Life is before you; not an earthly life alone, but an endless life — a thread running interminably through the work of eternity.... I believe that God... Is our Father and desires the happiness and eternal life of his children.... Men may choose the right or they may choose the wrong; they may walk in darkness or they may walk in the light; and mind you, God has not left his children without the light (Secrets of a Happy Life, pp. 90-91, 119). 646 4 eC Role S C4 Irene B. Woodford Member, Adult Committee, All-Church Coordinating Council, Former Member, Relief Society General Board i. 1 S THE wailing cry of a newborn babe floated over the cold night air. Before the appearance of dawn, nine infants were born to mothers in exile at the temporary camp at Sugar Creek, nine miles across the Mississippi River from the beloved city of Nauvoo. Mothers and babes were as adequately cared for as_ possible, under the trying circumstances of bitter cold and inadequate shelter by kind and_ compassionate sisters acting under the authorization and blessing of the Priesthood of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith had called and set apart a number of women, among them leaders of Relief Society, to go among the sick and afflicted in Nauvoo and minister to their wants. President Emma Smith, Counselor Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Secretary Eliza R. Snow, and Treasurwere so er Elvira A. Cowles called, as were Sarah M. Kimball, Mary Fielding Smith, Mercy R. Thompson, Marinda Hyde, Mary Ann Hyde and others. These sisters and those called and set apart later by President Brigham Young and other General Authorities, ministered as midwives and nurses in the camps of Israel as the saints trekked westward across the plains. The need was great for women with faith, aptitude, and the necessary skills to perform these services during the memorable exodus of modern Israel, for "mothers gave birth to offspring under almost every variety of circumstance imaginable, except those to which they had been accustomed; some in tents, others in wagons — in yrainstorms and in snow-storms."' For many years after the saints arrived in the Valley of the Great 647 SEPTEMBER 1964 Salt Lake the responsibility and burden of delivering babies and caring for the sick rested primarily on the women of the Church, and Relief Society was at times sorely taxed to meet the urgent demands for nurses and midwives. One of the most loved and needed inhabitants of the farflung and scattered Mormon settlements was the practical nurse and midwife who, at all hours of the day or night and in every kind of weather, responded willingly and cheerfully to a call for help. "Go get Sarah" would be the cry — or "Jane," "Ann," or "Maggie." Whoever she was and wherever she lived, at a moment's notice the dependable and devoted midwife and nurse would hasten to the one in need of her help. Often the only "doctor" for miles around, these faithful women, many of them Relief Society presidents or their counselors, traveled endless lonely miles on foot, or horseback, by buggy, wagon, or sleigh through the deep snows of winter and the rain and mud of early spring, to bring babies into the world, set broken bones, cool fevered brows, and perform other healing services. Nor were the travels of these women without personal danger to them, for there were rivers to ford, blizzards to face, and the ever-present danger of a horse, racing over the rough countryside, losing its footing in the darkness of night. One midwife was "lost in a blizzard overnight," and on another merciful errand was '"'nearly drowned while fording a stream in high water time." Some of these early midwives and nurses had received training un- 648 der eminent physicians and in the midwife schools and hospitals of their native lands. Others attended nurse classes in Salt Lake City, for the need of trained women nurses was_ recognized shortly after the saints arrived in the Salt Lake Valley. As early as 1849, Dr. Willard Richards, Counselor to President Brigham Young, commenced a nurse class for women that included among its members Zina D. H. Young and Emmeline B. Wells, both later General Presidents of Relief Society. Practical instruction was given in midwifery, care -of children, children's diseases, etc. When Dr. Richards was absent, his wife Susannah Richards, a graduate nurse from her native England, taught the classes. Following the death of Dr. Willard Richards, the following notice by Dr. William France, Surgeon, appeared in the April 18, 1855, Deseret News: By Desire of the late President Willard Richards, and urged thereto by repeated solicitations from many of the Sisters; it is my intention on or about the Ist of May, to open classes for instruction on The Principles of Midwifery and the Management of Women and Children. The Course of study will comprise two distinct Series of lectures. One designed especially for the benefit of the Matrons practicing Midwifery. The other (of more general application) addressed to 'Mothers in Israel" concerning the management of Women, during Pregnancy, Lying-in and Nursing; and also the treatment of Infants and young Children. Classes in obstetrics and nursing continued to be taught by private physicians, and women who could, took advantage of the opportunity thus provided them. NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY Blessed and set apart by the Presiding Authorities of the Church and acting under this authority and blessing, they performed a marvelous work, some of them delivering from 3,000 to 4,000 babies. As President. Brigham Young blessed one midwife he promised her that if she would "trust in the Lord for help and guidance and not resort to drugs and patent medicine she would always be successful." This promise was fulfilled, for in her forty years of practice she never lost a mother and she lost very few babies. Another midwife stated, "I spent fifty years in the service. I confined hundreds of women and I did not lose a case."' The medical equipment of these early midwives and nurses often consisted solely of poultices, plasters, and medicinal herbs. The pay received for their service was meager — from three to five dollars for each birth and care of the mother and baby for nine days. This payment was often made in produce — a little pig, two chickens, eggs, butter, wheat, beans, garden vegetables, or a few berries. Many times duties were performed without remuneration. As the migration to Utah increased and the settlements expanded, the hazards of childbirth became a pressing problem, and the need for women trained in midwifery became _ increasingly acute, for there were many settlements without any medical aid. Keenly aware of this need and earnestly desiring to maintain a low mortality rate among mothers and infants, the Church and Relief Society leaders began strenuously to promote the training of women in medicine and obstetrics. In 1872 Sister Eliza R. Snow canvassed for students in Salt Lake City "in view of opening a school of medicine and surgery for the instruction of females; that those possessed of nerve, energy and ambition for such a laudable life, might have opportunity for qualifying themselves." On July 15, 1873, President Brigham Young requested Relief Society presidents throughout the Church to appoint three women from each ward in the city and one from each settlement to study hygiene, nursing, and midwifery. The bishops were instructed that, if necessary, the students be supported by the ward during the term of study. In speaking at a Relief Society meeting in Ogden, Eliza R. Snow referred to this request by President Young: President Young is requiring the sisters to get students of Medicine.... Are there here, now, any sisters who have ambition enough, and who realize the necessity of it, for Zion's sake, to take up this study. There are some who are naturally inclined to be nurses; and such ones would do well to study Medicine, if they are inclined to do so. If they cannot meet their own expenses, we have means of doing so.... Those who go through this course should be young women. We have, in Salt Lake City, a Mrs. Barker, who proposes to teach. Then, another class of women is wanted more advanced in age, who are natural nurses, and would be willing to study obstetrics; this lady is going to give a series of lectures for their benefit. We have to get up these classes and attend to all these things. (Woman's Exponent, September 15, 1873). The school of obstetrics was 649 opened in September of 1873 and taught by Mrs. Mary Barker, by Seymour B. Young, private physiclan to President Brigham Young, and, for a time, by Zina D. H. Young, third General President of Relief Society, who practiced obstetrics for many years "and was always ready to exercise her faith and lend her outstanding abilities as a nurse." Many women came from the different settlements to attend this school. To alleviate further the urgent need for medical help, President Brigham Young called women who had special qualifications and aptitudes to go East and study medicine. Upon their return they were to spend some time teaching others in the frontier communities. Sister Romania Pratt Penrose, the first to go, obtained her medical degree in 1877. Upon her return she gave free lectures 650 to the medical class, replacing Sister Young. Private classes in nursing and obstetrics were given by Latter-day Saint women physicians over a period of fifty years, principally by Dr. Penrose, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, and Dr. Margaret Curtis Shipp Roberts, all Relief Society women, the first two being members of the Relief Society General Board. Dr. Ellis Shipp traveled extensively from Canada to Mexico visiting isolated communities and imparting of her knowledge, as did also Dr. Margaret Shipp Roberts. In 1893, Relief Society General President Zina D. H. Young accompanied President Wilford Woodruff to Idaho to canvass the wards and stakes in the Upper Snake River Valley and invite women to attend a School of Medicine to be conducted in Salt Lake City by Dr. Margaret Curtis Shipp Roberts. President NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY Woodruff emphasized ''that only women of courage, determination and abundant energy need apply, for they must be willing to endure hard work, long hours, and have the strength to battle the elements in their travels to the homes of those who needed aid." It was hoped that three women from each ward would be able to attend this school. On May 14, 1898, a special meeting of Relief Society presidents of the Salt Lake Stake was called to consider the organization of a Relief Society Nurse Training School. Stake Relief Society President Mary Isabella Horne told the sisters assembled that the proposed class had the approbation and blessing of the First Presidency and of the presidency of the Salt Lake Stake. It was suggested that the Relief Society presidents select four students from each ward, ranging in ages from eighteen to forty. The course would take from six to eight months and those who took it would be expected to devote some of their time to nursing the poor, when sick, in their respective wards. Relief Society General President Zina D. H. Young and her counselor Bathsheba W. Smith were present at this meeting. President Young "heartily endorsed the movement looking to the betterment of the poor and the suffering." Bathsheba W. Smith said, "' I hope the sisters will rally to the call and be a ray of sunshine in the home of the sick, good nursing will be sought for and I pray God's blessings on the class."" Dr. Roberts, who was to teach the class free of charge, said she believed the day would come "when you will be proud to wear the cap and apron of the Relief Society corps of nurses." Relief Society presidents of eighteen city wards and five county wards heartily endorsed _ the movement and promised aid and support in the matter. This Relief Society Nurse School, which was placed under the direction of the General Board of Relief Society on September 13, 1902, was conducted until 1920, a period of over twenty-one years. A report on the progress of the work was given in the Woman's Exponent of March 1903. It stated that the Nurse Class... Has been doing good work and the ladies are making excellent progress in their studies It is of great satisfaction to the general officers of the Relief Society to know that such favorable advancement is being made because the first duty of the society is to care for the poor, the needy and unfortunate, and in order to be equipped for this work there is need of competent nurses, not only in large cities, but in country places, and almost more in new colonies. In this class of 1903 there were eighty-seven students from twenty-six stakes in Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Oregon. The Relief Society Nurse Classes were conducted annually on an eight-month basis for students ranging in ages from eighteen to forty-five. One stipulation in the contract was that the students devote a specified number of days to charity nursing, under the direction of Relief Society, during the first year after their graduation. 651 SEPTEMBER 1964 Besides providing nursing SserVvmade to those who were sick and ice for those unable to pay» it was homebound. The purpose of the Nurse School Although Relief Society 0 iS] 1 s nurse training service, and also to provide insupport nurse training programs. Expensive nursing service for Latlt encourages wornen who are inter-day Saint families who could terested in going into professional not pay the higher cost of 4 trainimg to consider the programs registered nurse. Offered in the College of Nursing In lime with chang} g condi of many universitie he Brigtions, the Relief Society Nurse ham Young Univers} y offers the Class was supersed i 20 by four-year paccalaureate program, qa one-year course for Relief 5°- the three-yeat hospital diploma ciety Nurse Aids at the Latterprogram, and, commencing in Ocday Saint Hospital in Salt Lake tober of 1964, a unique two-year City, the students being recruited associate degree program which by Relief Society. The course will qualify its graduates to work courses offered todayForty-six for licensure as registered nurses. Nurse aids were sraduated during Relief Society encourages womize "iouryo™ period that the e? Snterested in vemi-professional of nursing service and training of the past, through its stake an ganization also, over 4 period of ciety has recruited women to atyears, gave monetary help in the tend nurse training courses and form of loans to assist a number has promoted nurse ¢ in} of student nurses. Through Relief Society convenT opay, as in the past, the care Relief Society also com 1 of the sick is a vital and fundanually im the wards and As the two ieaders left Lon's cabin to send for the Indian pony he would ride, Lon walked to the curtain and pushed it aside. Selena lay on the bed, her back toward her husband. "You heard, Selena?" *"Vies,"' "T have to go, Selena." "So it seems." She lay without moving, refusing to face him. For a long moment Lon waited. "Selena." She turned slowly. Lon bent low over the bed, but the look in her dark eyes stopped him, causing him to draw back, as it had done so many times. He straightened.. "Goodbye, Selena." ""Goodbye, Lon." He picked up his hat and gloves and turned toward the door. She reached out a hand, then drew it back quickly. Lon 654 Your Heart to Under Standing Hazel M. Thomson CHAPTER 8 (Conclusion) did not see her as he went out, closing the door behind him. Riding alongside of the Indian throughout the long night, Lon gained increased respect for him. He could sense the Indian's great reluctance to do this thing to one who had long been his friend, who but for injustices which Garra felt his people had suffered at the hands of the whites, would stili be a friend to Juan Antonio. Lon felt that night that he was seeing real courage for the first time in his life, although the Indian spoke little of his own feelings. "Garra and I were true friends, once. Now he knows only hate." Lon did not ask questions, allowing Juan Antonio to stop or continue as he chose. "Garra saved my life, long ago. I tell him I give him anything he asks. My colt. My white colt. That was what he ask. I give Garra my colt. He still rides it." Lon heard the note of pride in the Indian's voice. "I've heard of the white horse Garra rides,"' said Lon. '""The men claim there isn't a horse in all California that could catch it." "This is true," answered Juan. "We catch Garra, but not in a fair race." At the ranch Weaver welcomed them and _ stayed only long enough to pack supplies before taking his family and ranch hands to a place of hiding in the opposite direction from the road Garra would use. After Juan's braves arrived the hours dragged by slowly. Some of the Indians slept, but Juan had no feel for sleep. Neither did Lon. His thoughts turned to Selena. If she had only made some little protest at his leaving. But she had watched him go, he felt, as calmly as though he were going to the spring for a bucket of water. Discouragement closed in heavily upon him. Perhaps this thing he had hoped to accomplish, to one day win Selena's love, was after all impossible. It must have been past midnight when Garra and his men appeared. The firelight cast a glow on the copper faces of the waiting braves. They were awake instantly as Juan Antonio stepped to the door and called a greeting to Garra in his own tongue. Garra entered alone, leaving his men still mounted on their horses in the moonlight. Juan Antonio moved swiftly, closing the door behind Garra. "So you join us, Juan," Garra said. "The white men leave. We YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING have things to ourselves. When they come back, no house, we burn all up.'"' Garra looked at the circle of braves before him. And then he saw Lon. "A white?" he cried. "Is he against his own?" He whirled toward Juan, as he saw the row of guns raised toward him. Juan Antonio moved swiftly, removing Garra's own weapons, both gun and knife. "No, Garra. He is not against his own," Juan answered. '"'Nor do I kill the white men. And you do not kill any more of them, Garra. We are holding you for General Bean."' Garra turned one way and then another, his eyes wild with fright. "My braves! I command! They burn house now!" Juan Antonio turned Garra's own gun against the chief. "Tell them to go back to your camp, Garra. Tell them you stay for the night." Garra looked at the circle of guns confronting him. Through the open window he spoke a few words, repeating them sharply. His braves hesitated for a moment, then turned their horses and galloped back along the way they had come. Juan, himself, rode Garra's white horse back to San Bernardino. The black tail and black markings on the animal's head made it the most startlingly beautiful horse Lon had ever seen. He was more than a little surprised, as they drew near the fort, to have Juan jump lightly to the ground and hand the _ horse's reins to him. "You keep Cajon," he said, taking his own horse from one of 655 SEPTEMBER 1964 his men. 'I leave him here with you." Lon looked at the magnificent animal, speed marking every line of the horse's body. "But the horse is yours, Juan Antonio," protested Lon. 'TI cannot keep him." Juan shook his head sadly. "This day will be very hard to forget. The horse would only make it more hard. I do not want to take Cajon back to San Timoteo." Juan placed an arm under the horse's neck, patting the animal briefly. Then he mounted his own, raised his arm in farewell, and rode swiftly away at the head of his braves toward San Timoteo Canyon. Lon led the horse toward his room in the fort. Selena was cooking something in a large kettle over an open fire. Lon came near. "T'm back, Selena." "IT am glad, Lon." Her voice stirred: him; he felt she meant it. They sat together on a large log. As she watched over the cooking food he told her of the days since he had been: gone. ""So that is where you got the horse," she said, her eyes on the fire. "Yes, Selena. Cajon is the finest horse I have ever seen. I would like to give him to you." "Give him to me?" "Would you take the horse, Selena? He's fine to ride." Selena withdrew her. Hand quickly, and walked away in silence. It seemed now to Selena _ to have been a terrific waste of labor and materials in construct- 656 ing the fort, rather than homes. *"We could be in our own home now," she complained to Belle, "rather than the whole camp crowded in here in. The fort." "But Josiah says we would have had an attack, Selena, if the fort hadn't been here to discourage the Indians from trying anything." Then, at long last, using the finest woods just as he had promised, Lon finished Selena's home. They planted fruit trees and flowers and Selena, in her childless state, lavished care and attention upon them. People began coming to her for a start of daisies or asters or for grape cuttings, and her gardens were the pride of all San Bernardino. "Tf she could only have a baby to love," Belle. Said on more than one occasion. This, of course was Lon's greatest hope. "I think it would help," he had said. "She really wants one, Belle. I know that, and I've always felt that it might help to unlock all that she keeps stored up so tightly inside of her." THE night. Juan Antonio's wife gave birth to a daughter, the Indian came for Lon: The squaw was dangerously ill, and Juan, as had other Indians with sickness in their families, came for the Mormons. Lon listened as Juan explained that this was their third baby. The other two had died. "You come," he said. "Pray over my squaw. It will be all right." "T will be there as soon as I can get Josiah," said Lon. With humility at the Indian's faith in the Mormon God being certain to answer prayer, Lon watched Juan Antonio mount his horse and ride swiftly back toward the canyon. Selena, knitting nearby, had surely heard, but she gave no indication. "Would you come, Selena?" Lon asked. Selena shuddered. "'I'll go and stay with the baby and Belle can go,' she said, hurrying away from the disappointment she read in Lon's eyes. From that night on, anything that Juan Antonio would ever have could be Lon's just for the asking. He insisted that Lon find him a name for the child in his Indian Book. "Not many squaw names in the Book," Lon answered. "'Mostly braves. Laman, Lemuel." "Bad men," interrupted Juan. "T do not name my little squaw bad name." "Well." said Lon, "there is Samuel." "Samuel, the Lamanite. I remember," Juan said. He rolled the words on his tongue, liking the feel of them. 'That is good. I call the baby girl Sam." Lon smiled, but Juan saw nothing humorous in the decision. It was well into the springtime of 1857 when Juan Antonio came again to Lon asking for help. Smallpox had struck the small band of Indians in San Timoteo Canyon. Juan's squaw was dead. "T bring Sam to you," the Indian said, as Lon looked past him to where the child sat, still on the Indian pony. "We'll take good care of Sam," Lon said. "If she gets the sickYOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING ness we'll use all the white-man medicine we have." Easy enough for him to say, Selena thought bitterly. For several days she refused even to speak to Lon, beyond the barest necessities. "The nerve of that Indian!"' she cried at him. "Bringing that child here when she may come down with the smallpox any day herself." "Juan knows we have the scar, Selena. I have told him about it, that it means we will not take the disease. He is only trying to help a little child. Don't think it was easy for him to leave her here." Selena was silent, thinking over what Lon had said. But the days dragged by. She could not even take the child to visit Belle now, lest her son become exposed to the dreaded disease. Then one evening Lon came home to find Sam playing happily with a rag doll Selena had made. There was a gay, red ribbon entwined in the jet braids. When the Sabbath came Lon insisted that Selena go to meeting with Belle and Josiah while he stayed with the child. "The baby is feverish with cutting teeth," Belle said. ""You and Josiah go on without me." In the wagon Josiah was strangely silent and seemed ill at ease. Selena attributed it to the unusualness of the situation. She and Josiah seldom went anywhere without either Belle or Lon with them. Then, holding the lines tight and looking straight ahead, Josiah cleared his throat. "T've been meaning to talk to you, Selena. I know you don't 657 SEPTEMBER 1964 want to hear a sermon. You'll probably hear four or five before we get back so I'll be short. "I watched you eating your heart out for a man who wasn't worth a tear. He was a crook, Selena. Belle knows it, but I was never supposed to say anything. Then I kept still about Alfred Quale. Belle said the decision was yours, but we were all-fired glad when he cleared out after he found gold so much more tempting than God. Now, seems to me, for a man who had no part in causing any of this, that Lon has had about enough mistreatment." That. Was all. Josiah had finished and he did not labor the issue, but his words troubled her deeply. Supposing, she asked herself, that her years of unhappiness had been just that, and not loyalty to a high and noble ideal. It was not only Josiah's words, however, but also a part of one of the day's sermons, that was to stay with Selena for weeks to come. "Apply your heart to understanding.""' These words were to stay with Selena as long as she lived. Perhaps, she told -herself, she not only had been making it difficult for everyone around her, but had been failing to live an important part of the gospel's teaching in regard to her fellow men. The short time she had cared for Sam in her home had brought to Selena the greatest satisfaction she had ever known. She found herself wishing Josiah would drive faster on the way home. Lon met her at the door. "It's Sam," he said. "I guess 658 she's getting the smallpox." Selena's heart pounded as she looked at the ugly spots appearing on the dark skin. The black eyes were bright with fever. The days and nights that followed were a nightmare to Selena, but they brought her closer to Lon than she had ever been. During one of the worst evenings, when the child had passed to unconsciousness, Josiah came to aid Lon in administering to her. For the first time in Josiah's experience he saw Selena in Lon's arms as though she really wanted to be there. "Oh, Lon," she sobbed, "ask God that her face may not be scarred." Josiah listened intently to the words as they came from Lon's lips, and he was impressed that Lon was praying, not only for the sick child before them, but also that old scars of long standing might be healed. From that night the child's recovery was swift, and though her body would always bear marks of the ravages of the disease, not a sign remained to mar the smoothness of her brown cheeks. THE summer passed pleasantly for Selena. There had been many rumors throughout the settlement since Brother Lyman and Brother Rich had both returned to Salt Lake in April, but it was October before the news was certain. Juan Antonio rode over to see Lon as soon as he heard. "You must take Sam with you," her father said. 'She will learn to read the Indian Book. And when she is eight-of-age she must have the true baptism." Lon gripped his friend's hand, realizing something of the cost to this man. "Sam is over to Josiah's, but she will be back for dinner. You will stay?" He saw the muscles in the Indian's face move. "No. It is better not. You will do the baptism?" "I will do it, with authority and in the right way." Still Juan waited, reluctant to take his leave. Lon wished for something he might do in return. Not in payment for Sam. Nothing could do that, but as a token of esteem for Juan Antonio. Cajon! Of course! Why hadn't he thought of the stallion before? Juan objected but not so strongly now. ''My mare will foal in the spring," Lon said. "Perhaps I'll have a Cajon of my own." Selena was all excited over the news that was spreading like wildfire through the settlement. "But why, Lon?" she cried. "Why are we going back? The crops have never been better. Fruit trees are bearing. Everything looks favorable." "We're being recalled, Selena. An army has been sent toward the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and President Young has sent word for everyone to come. We're going home." "'Lon!"' she cried. ''We can't go! Our house." The look on Lon's face brought her words to a halt. Of course he would go. Nothing in this world could keep Lon Holiday from obeying counsel. "Yes, of course. The house." His voice was low, with a touch of bitterness. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "You may have the house, Selena, and our grain field and the cattle we have. With good management you'll get along. The Mormons again are in no position to bargain. Settlers will move in fast. And there are some who have decided against returning. You will not be alone." "You want me to stay, then, Lon?" "TY want you to do what you want to, Selena."' Lon was weary with the long years of disappointment. "Belle will care for Sam. You know, of course, that they are going back. There is no time to lose before winter sets in. I'm helping load their wagon tonight." Lon picked up his hat and went out, closing the door behind him. So he was taking Sam to Deseret! Through the window Selena saw the girl running to meet Lon. He held out his hand and she skipped along beside him, keeping up with his long stride. Selena stood in the middle of the floor and looked around at the room. The air felt heavy and oppressive. What was home? Where was it? Nauvoo, Winter Quarters, San Bernardino — or the Valley of the Great Salt Lake? Even with an army on its way, it would never matter again. Wherever Lon Holiday was, that would be home for Selena. She ran to the door and flung it open. Lon and Sam were almost to Belle's door. "Lon!" she cried. "Sam! Wait for me! I'm coming." And the distance between them seemed longer to Selena than the trip back to the Great Salt Lake. 659 Mister Lewis Ravens Part IT Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: Mister Lewis, an "outsider," who lives in the fields adjacent to a pioneer village, has_ befriended a widow and her seven children during an outbreak of diptheria. The mother expresses a fervent wish that her children will care for Mister Lewis if he ever needs help. His tormentor no longer looked leeringly about for applause for great or humorous deeds. Instead, as the boy shaded his eyes with both hands and became accustomed to the relative dusk inside, he saw the man backing into a corner with the hope of putting the pot-bellied stove between himself and a suddenly infuriated giant whose vehement anger volcanoed even before his chair came out of its tilt and his heels touched the floor. The bellow of protest which came forth through white teeth and black beard so startled the cracker barrel habitués that they, too, leveled their chairs and forgot to whittle. 660 >. Ry te —— r. ERe e © ae " a £ —_ " ee. 7. We 7&s 3 It was incredible the volume of words, in three languages, that tumbled and rumbled from the outraged man. With cursings used only on mules, he flayed the coward who teased and taunted a sickly boy. In half-Mexican, halfUte, he called upon all heaven and earth to destroy this cur who had no heart. After that he threw in a French word or two that were so strange to these emigrant folk who had scarcely mastered English, that they cringed at implied doom. They stepped back a respectful distance, just to be out of way should justice be thrown at them in jagged, flaming swords. In fact, so versatile was this man in expressing his wrath, that each person in the store was led to complete silence and awe. A scourge, a curse bellowed forth upon the head of one who would offend a child, let alone one whose life had recently been snatched from a diphtheria-fe- vered grave. Would that the widowed mother could strike in defense of this son who was on an errand of love. Would that his brothers could hang this uncouth rascal by his thumbs. The tumult and rumble of violent speech reverberated. The glass chimneys which rested in a wire cage hung from the ceiling shimmered and rattled. The proprietor became anxious for his property, if not for the life of the miscreant. To this point not another word had been spoken. Most of the men searched for words to match the ones which indicted this troublesome fool slinking in the corner, but each gave up the fruitless quest. The boy was so fascinated that he had to absorb a bit of it to realize this speech was cast forth in his defense. When that thought came, he became afraid that action would follow in which blood would flow. He felt impelled to prevent such a deed, so he called out, even to screaming, "Mister Lewis! Mister Lewis! Come here to the door!" The blasting, thunderous tirade erased itself. The store owner, the bystanders, the offender, all leaned forward to see what would happen next. Mister Lewis, he of the violent language, swung himself about and strode to the door. The boy backed away. Mister Lewis unlocked the door, then opened it, then beckoned the boy to come on in. WITH greater strength than he had shown heretofore, the boy obeyed the order. He came forward to the end of the counter and waited. Mister Lewis reached MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS for the basket of eggs and shoved it toward the petrified clerk: No one moved. A daguerreotype could have been taken of that country store and its various characters as they awaited judgment day. Mister Lewis considered himself well rid of the trivial, the inconsequential, the obnoxious, the ignorant. His very silence shocked them. His total abstinence of invective from that moment left an absence of dignity on the manure-booted prankster. The boy reached for his basket, now emptied of eggs. In its shadows rested a small brown paper bag of "store" sugar. It bore a crayon mark of "14 lb." A typical purchase had been consummated. Silence. No nailed heels scraping on the random width floor. No hissing on the _ pot-bellied stove. No clink of the crowning of kings in the corner where waged the perpetual tournament of checkers. Silence. The boy left the store. A miracle had happened within him. Tremors, shyness, the palpitating after fever, all were displaced with the dignity of righteous indignation given him by a more experienced man. His next basket of eggs would be carried in strength and pride. From now on he believed in boys wanting to be men. Mister Lewis also left the store. No leer of triumph, no parting blow, no glance of disdain was cast by him. He ignored the afflictor of little boys. He did not glance at loafers who enjoyed practical jokes. He touched the rim of his hat to salute good day to the proprietor. He turned to- 661 SEPTEMBER 1964 ward his fields to the west of town. As he passed some willows growing on the ditch bank, he cut one off with his pocket knife. As he walked and thought he flicked the wood against his boots. THE small boy did not know what to think. He knew that the life of Mister Lewis was not as that of other men. Nor were his words or ways. No wonder townsmen thought him odd, even queer. The boy did not know what to do for a benefactor who failed to recognize one when they met, or whose remote abode did not invite visitors. He was almost home before. He recalled his mother's reference to a far future day when Mister Lewis might need help. And then, she decreed, even if it were in fifty years, any or all of her seven children should take care of Mister Lewis. The boy thought that a whole lifetime of looking after Mister Lewis was a high price to pay for a few gallons of milk on the hoof. And after the store episode, what more did Hebe now owe Mister Lewis? It could be a burden heavier than one small boy should carry.; * *k * Livinc is for wandering and jaunting and patrolling and straggling and gypsying. It is for going in a file in a straight course, and being whipped into line by ideas and faith and love. It is for traversing a continent, for revisiting scenes of _ stick-horse days, for pilgrimage and plodding, for lilting voices with a mandolin in the hands. Living is for toil and sorrow and second chances and better judgment. It is for conquering and humility and 662 smiling, the eyes saying yes, and shaking the head no. And sticking by it. Living is for finding cabbages and kings. At no time had Hebe seen Mister Lewis in, say forty years, and his mother's reference to saying thank you grew dimand was quite forgotten. Then, one morning as Hebe stood in the doorway of his business establishment, he sighted a man slouched in the shadow of the railway station across the street. The vigor of yesterday had lessened a bit; but the vague, evasive bundle of thoughts was there as always, entertaining, exciting, and permitting the man to be the complete hermit. His eternal habit of chewing on a twig and of using a larger stick or a cane was there to identify him as surely as a thumbprint or a statistical number. Hebe thought at first to run across the street, to grasp the man's hand in a shaking of fellowship. He lurched forward a step, then checked such an unMister-Lewis-like impulse. Thus, practiced, adult restraints snagged him before he got across the sidewalk. To cover the sign of indecision he turned and entered his hotel (for that was now his sedentary, prosperous business). He called to his manager to come and see who that was across the street. Yes, that's Lewis, sure enough—looking for a grubstake out to the Wah Wah Springs — thinks he has a horn silver claim that ought to make us all rich but who wants to gamble on old man Lewis... Might never find an ounce! Hebe took a small notebook from his hip pocket and started to write in it. A list, it appeared to be, if you had seen it—on the left side going down the margin, one saw: donkey; shovel; pick; frying pan; canned goods; blanket; chamois skin pouch with $200; rope long enough for a good diamond hitch. On the right side he wrote, not a balancing list, but more of a memorandum: six weeks milk on the hoof; one screen door with a gate spring on it. Biblical birds MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS He tore out the page, then ripped it in half, up and down, -which gave him two lists. He handed his manager the left portion and said, 'Fix Mister Lewis up with these things, say by sundcwn. I think he wants to head out into the desert to see what he can find." He folded the right half of the page and inserted it in the back flap of his billfold. As he turned to greet a paying guest, he smiled. Across his eyes could be seen the —ravens, mother called them. Look of a boy of seven or eight. Placing the Relief Society Miagazine in Public Libraries Ferrel Christensen I recently returned from laboring in the Northern States Mission. While there, one of the things that most impressed itself upon my mind was the fact that many people are far more affected by seeing the gospel in action than they are by doctrinal arguments. For this reason I was very grateful for the copies of The Relief Society Magazine which we had to leave with people. I was only sorry that we didn't have many more. Nothing could be better designed to show the "fruits" of the restoration than The Relief Society Magazine. Since it is such a wonderful missionary tool, I was often led to wonder if some way could be found to make it available for touching the hearts of more women. The possibility that comes to me recurrently is this: could not subscriptions to the Magazine be given to local libraries around the country? While I was in Waukegan, Illinois, we visited the town library with this in mind. We showed copies of the magazine to the librarian, who was very much impressed with its quality. She said that they would be delighted to receive this periodical, but could not appropriate money to purchase subscriptions because there was, as yet, no local demand for them. The amount of good that could be accomplished in this way would be tremendous; people who are eager to talk to the missionaries would be attracted by the colorful and interesting magazines, thus opening up previously inaccessible homes to the gospel. 663 EDITORIAL And it came to pass also, that he caused the title of liberty to be hoisted upon every tower which was in all the land... And thus Moroni planted the standard of liberty among the Nephites (Alma 46:36). THE Book of Mormon abundantly testifies of the blessings of law and order in the government of nations and of the individual people who composed those nations. Moroni, in ancient days upon the American continent, called his ensign of government ''the standard of liberty," and it was his constant prayer that the ''freedom of the land might be favored.'' He rejoiced when laws were established upon the fundamental principles of freedom and obedience. It was then that the people achieved personal happiness, and peace was like a benediction in all the borders of the land, for there were ''but few who denied the covenant of freedom." The history of the world from earliest times gives evidence of the difficulties encountered by individuals and nations in their attempts to raise the standard of liberty so that men and nations might achieve that grandeur of accomplishment and the blessings of peace which can come only through an understanding of and obedience to the intricate relationships between free agency and law. Those who have been privileged to receive, through the principles of the gospel, illumination and enlightenment of the basic principles of liberty and obedience are indeed blessed. And well they may rejoice to know that their own lives and the lives of all who have lived or will live upon the earth have this transcendent opportunity of free choice given them in the premortal kingdom. Thus the glory of mortality and the element of choice that it guarantees are aspects of an eternal principle that has existed forever for ''I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free' (D&C 98:8). The standard of liberty and the free agency of mankind were of The Standard of Liberty great concern to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his teachings reveal the fundamental law of liberty to be a dominant principle of the gospel. Liberty, however, is not to be confused with license. The Doctrine and Covenants, in many passages, emphasizes ''the freedom of obedience."' Counsel and commandment are emphasized as being required direction for all. ''Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes"' (D&C 88:86). The last three Articles of Faith explain in words of eternal significance the Latter-day Saint belief regarding freedom and government. The eleventh Article of Faith illuminates the concept of religious freedom and requires that we ''allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may.'' This would indicate a respect for the rights of all men in their freedom of choice. Article Twelve counsels obedience, ''honoring and sustaining the law''; and the last Article of Faith enjoins upon the saints the cultivation of those qualities and aspects of character which adorn all people whose conduct is disciplined in accordance with law — ''We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." Freedom and law, then, are not designed for temporary judgment upon the earth, nor should they be as a blessing for only part of the children of the Heavenly Father. Freedom and law were established in the courts of heaven, ''according to the laws of the kingdom of God which are given by the prophets of God'' (D&C 58:18). In July of 1964, President David O. McKay, our prophet, declared: ''Freedom of choice is more to be treasured than any possession earth can give." 'Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold V. P. C. Relief Society Magazine Receives Outstanding Award The Relief Society Magazine for March 1964 received the Mead Award of Merit, given by the Mead Papers Company of Dayton, Ohio, for excellence in editorial content, illustrations, color reproductions, and printing. The award was presented to President Belle S. Spafford at a special luncheon given by John Stagg, representing Mead Papers. Others in attendance at the luncheon were members of the Magazine editorial staff and Deseret News Press representatives. Specifically the award states: We doubt if any other religious denomination surpasses The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the quality and extent of its use of the printed page in maintaining contact with its members. The Relief Society Magazine is an outstanding example, with its excellent editorial content, covering a wide variety of subjects, and charming illustrations. Among the many fine articles in the March issue, one of the most interesting to those of us engaged in the graphic arts was the story about ''Painting With Glass.'' This is a fascinating description of feminine creative talent, versatility, and enterprise that blazed new trails Wide Autumn Dorothy J. Roberts Autumn stretches the The valleys spread And stand in ocd he LJ - | f TY Vy ae r e P - ° +. A. A, ' e i e 8.: 'we f — Winter blinds — but the This layered splendor in between. > - Wide and long the Meadows reach; The gold of stubble 'brigh Vision stretche: oO TOU 'The. Bright*peri all. An le. Paery NURSES, both registered tical, are greatly needed in the United States and in other countries. The modern nurse must lead as well as perform, and supervising nurses are in great demand, according to Dr. Eleanor Lambertsen, chairman of the department of nursing at CoProfessional nurses today frequently find themselves moving away from the bedside to fill roles."' ELAINE B. EVANS, of Berkeley, California, is the sculptor of the impressive life-size statue of Adam and Eve which is receiving much favorable comment from visitors to the Mormon Pavilion at the New York World's Fair. BLANCA ESTRELLA de MESCOLI is a Venezuelan composer who is winning prizes for her works, especially some lovely tone poems for which she composed both words and music. HARRIET ROTHSTEIN is a rising ianist, who at the age of nine, won in an original-composition competition sponsored by the Philadelphia Orchestra, which also per formed her work. She has given concerts in numerous American cities and in several foreign countries. Garded by woman scientist in the world,' as she is the only woman besides the great Marie Curie to win the Nobel Prize in Physics. Her research in atomic physics has given her the title '"The Marie Curie of the Atom." known as 4 devoted mother and homemaker and was accompanied to Stockholm, Sweden, to receive her award by her husband, Joseph Mayer. MARYHALE WOOLSEY, @ contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has been given the silver medal award by the Commonwealth Society of California for her juvenile book Press), a story service in an early translation of the Bible into English. The book was rated as the best in the juvenile field published by a resident of California in 1963. FEDORA ALEMAN is 2 Venezuelan soprano of much beauty and gra ciousness as well as talent. She sings in the United States, Europe, espe cially in Paris, and in South America. She frequently appears in programs consisting entirely of Venezuelan music, making one such appearance in Carnegie Hall. 667 q y 4. * - 4 f ' ag e i al: ers Concerts ' me A onan ome ae: wae cr) ee i Pars sewer a BF Oa Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 1 could believe that angel choirs joined with the Singing Mothers, the music was so glorious," so spoke one of the audience at the fourth and final Singing Mothers concert at the New York World's Fair. The four concerts at the World's Fair Pavilion, across the'street from the Mormon Pavilion, on June 24 and 25, were well attended, with many crowding in the back. A standing ovation and cries of "Bravo" were given the chorus at the conclusion of each concert. Those in charge of the activity acknowledged the goodness of the Lord as to the fair weather, the great numbers of Fair visitors who were attracted to the concerts, and the opportunity to acquaint strangers with this great cultural activity of Relief Society. The months of planning, hours of traveling, and days of rehearsals were brought to full fruition at the concerts themselves. "By their fruits ye shall know them," was truly demonstrated. The spirit at the concerts was one of devotion and a forgetfulness of self for the glory of the whole. The dedication to this service began in March when Sister Ellen N. Barnes (Mrs. Maurice R.), director of the Washington Stake Singing Mothers chorus and a concert pianist of note, was called by the General Presidency of Relief Society to take charge of a proposed presentation of a combined Singing Mothers chorus at the World's Fair in June. Sister Barnes proposed a program which included two numbers, one of which Sister Florence J. Madsen, chairman of the General Board music committee, had composed, and the 668 ed Relief Society Presidency and Chorus Conductors at the World's Fair Left to right: Florence J. Madsen, Chairman of the General Board Music Committee: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; Ellen N. Barnes, Conductor of the Singing Mothers Chorus at the World's Fair, other of which Sister Madsen had made the arrangement. These two numbers were conducted by Sister Madsen in her masterly way at the World's Fair concerts. Sister Barnes chose to present a sacred concert, including some patriotic numbers. Outstanding soloists of the selected Eastern Stakes gave of their great talents. The harpist, violinist, and accompanist were superb. For thirteen weeks Sister Barnes left her Washington home on Monday and during the week trained the selected Singing Mothers of the Washington, Potomac, Philadelphia, New Jersey, New York, and Boston stakes in their own centers. At the end of May the Washington and Potomac choruses were rehearsed together and also the New York-N ew Jersey choruses. The latter two had been invited to present some selections on May 8 at the Rainbow Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee, Inc., at the Waldorf-Astoria. The first time the entire chorus was assembled was at the Manhattan ward in New York the day just previous to the first World's Fair concerts. The exacting and accomplished musicianship of Sister Barnes was demonstrated in the way the six choruses melted into a whole. Part of the time of the day's rehearsal, moreover, was spent in arranging for the staging of the production at the World's Fair. 669 SEPTEMBER 1964 As the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, in 1842, that Relief Society would receive instructions through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in these latter days, so with this great undertaking. The First Presidency granted permission at the outset for Relief Society to present these concerts, and Sister Spafford, who is a member of the Women's Advisory Council of the World's Fair, was told to work under the direction of Elder Harold B. Lee, Chairman of the Church World's Fair Committee and an advisor to Relief Society. The plans were matured under Elder Lee's direction. Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker attended the auditions of the singers with Sister Barnes and acted as General Board coordinator throughout. President G. Stanley McAllister of New York Stake was appointed by Elder Lee to act as the general overseer and eastern representative of the activity, and President George H. Mortimer of the New Jersey Stake assisted with bus travel and housing arrangements at a new Howard Johnson Motel. Devoted Latter-day Saint men of affairs and others in key positions lent every assistance in arranging for the presentation at the Fair, for recordings to go over WRUL, the production, the decor of the World's Fair Pavilion, medical, and protocol service. President Bernard P. Brockbank, in charge of the Mormon Pavilion, extended every courtesy and directed the missionaries at the Fair as they assisted at the concerts. The General Presidency of Relief Society gave a luncheon in the Williamsburg Salons at the Better Living Center for distinguished non-Latter-day Saint and Latter-day Saint women leaders, including Eastern Relief Scciety leaders. Sister Nathan Eldon Tanner accompanied President Tanner of the First Presidency, who was sent by President McKay to represent the First Presidency. Sister Harold B. Lee accompanied Elder Lee. Sister Henry D. Moyle also traveled to New York for the occasion. The special luncheon guests toured the Mormon Pavilion before attending the first concert. Preliminary to each concert, President Spafford made short introductory remarks explaining who the singers were and speaking of the Relief Society. Preliminary to the first concert, President Tanner gave his blessing to the singers and conveyed the blessing and love of President McKay who would like very much to have attended. This was a support and comfort to the conductors and singers. Elder Lee delivered the invocation before the audience at the first concert and prayers before other concerts were given by President Wilbur Wallace Cox of Boston Stake, and President Bryan F. West of the Philadelphia Stake. It is not surprising that with such planning and support, and with the dedication and righteousness of the lives of the Singing Mothers, that the concerts were beautiful and successful beyond the fondest hopes of all who participated. Everyone who assisted did so in a humble, modest manner. The praise in the press and from those workers who were attached to the World's Fair Pavilion attest to the high purpose and propriety of the undertaking. A woman on a plane was heard to declare that she had heard 300 670 Singing Mothers Chorus at the New York World's Fair June 24-25, 1964 Mormon mothers sing and that they sang like angels. This comparison was heard on numerous occasions. Special praise is due President Spafford for envisioning the undertaking, and to Sister Florence W. Madsen for her part in promoting Singing Mother concerts of the past and for her special participation at these concerts; to Director Ellen N. Barnes for her humble spirit and the dedication of her great talent in training the Singing Mothers for the glorious success of the concerts; and the devotion, forgetfulness of self, and love for Relief Society and each other which characterized the Singing Mothers. Everyone felt it was a wonderful privilege to have had any part in this missionary endeavor. Truly the Lord smiled on this great Relief Society undertaking. Note: The next eighteen pages contain information on the history of Relief Society which made up a brochure which was given to visitors at the Singing Mothers concerts at the World's Fair. 671 4 mM HESLOP; in First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints resident Hugh B. Brown President David O. McKay President N. Eldon Tanner J. M. HESLOP The General Presidency of Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford Counselor Marianne C. Sharp. Counselor Louise W. Madsen \ PAINTING BY ALVIN GITTINS PAINTING BY FRANCIS R. MAGLEBY The Prophet Joseph Smith 1805-1844 Nauvoo, Illinois, 1844 he Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is probably the oldest national woman's organization in the United States which has persisted. It was organized on March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois, with eighteen members. The Prophet Joseph Smith founded it and declared to the members: I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads. 674 Plate Design From an Old Etching From that time when the key was turned for women, has come the great advancement of womankind over the face of the earth. From the eighteen members in 1842, the Society today has grown to over a quarter of a million members residing in every state in the United States and in fifty-one other countries. Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1842, was situated on the broad Mississippi, near the frontier of America. On the brow of the hill a temple was rising through the sacrifice of the men and women of the Church. Relief Society began its humanitarian services amid scenes of hardship and courage. Emigrants, converts to the Church from the 3. M HESLOP 675 Eastern United States and England, poured into Nauvoo by the hundreds, and during the first year of Relief Society's existence, hundreds were kept from freezing and starvation by the good offices of the Relief Society. In 1843, a service of visiting teaching was started by which Relief Society members in pairs visited every home, collecting from those who had means and alleviating the suffering of the poor thereby. The program began with sixteen visiting teachers. In 1963 there were 113,680 visiting teachers, who made 4,325,341 visits and kept a monthly watchcare over the mothers in the homes, although the needed assistance in a material Portraying Visiting Teaching in the Early Days goes J M HESLOP way is supplied today through the great Church Welfare Program. To this Program Relief Society gives vital sewing, canning, and other services. The visits to mothers of families in need are made by Relief Society local presidents (there are over 5,000 local Relief Societies) under the direction of the Priesthood leaders of the Church units. On June 30, 1843 at Nauvoo, the first Secretary, Eliza R. Snow, wrote: ''More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipations predicted, and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future?" Relief Society Women Canning for the Church Welfare Program J M HESLOP s a gt ROR,. A sy on 678 Relief Society Deseret Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1884-1895 The "sanguine anticipations" were adequately realized in the year 1963. The loving tender ministrations of Relief Society members are revealed in this tabulation: Visits to the sick and homebound -390,566 8-hour days care of the sick -_ 32,666 Hours of other compassionate services _ 596,349 Nursing the sick was of early concern to Relief Society members. In pioneer days in Utah, Brigham Young sent Relief Society members east to attend medical school. Upon their return they conducted classes in midwifery and nursing. Today Relief Society enlists women to go into the nursing field, and encourages mothers to have their daughters enter into the four year college curriculum, the three year, and also the practical nurse field. Women members of the Church were given the religious vote from the time the Church was organized in 1830. The pioneer women in Utah were given the elective franchise shortly after the women of Wyoming were granted it; however, since an election was held in Utah before one in Wyoming, a Mormon woman, Seraph Young, a niece of Brigham Young, had the honor of being the first woman in the United States to cast a ballot. This was on February 21, 1870. Caring for the Sick ent, be ian 8 MISSIONS @ STAKES 680 Distribution of 262,000 Relief Society Members The Relief Society accomplishes the work given to the women of the Church. New Relief Society units are organized throughout the world as the Church enlarges its borders. Once a year a Relief Society general conference is held in Salt Lake City, Utah, with 10,000 Relief Society leaders in attendance from over the world. Once a year Relief Society General Board members journey to all of the stakes which are now located in Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Canada, England, Scotland, Samoa, West Germany, Berlin, Switzerland, and in the states of the United States to hold day-long meetings with the Relief Society leaders. Guidance is given in the two-fold program of Relief Society — welfare and education. * RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS The welfare work consists (in addition to humane alleviation of material and spiritual want, illness, and bereavement) of homemaking programs, both theoretical and practical. Once a month a "work meeting" is held at which instruction on better ways of housekeeping and homemaking are discussed and practical assistance and demonstrations are provided in cooking, sewing, and all other types of handicrafts. The planning for this meeting throughout the 5,000 organizations is left to the individual Society, but stimulation and suggestions are provided by the General Board. In 1963 there were completed in the work meetings 687,091 sewed articles, and 367,803 non-sewed articles. 681 682 Susan B. Anthony (center) With Relief Society Leaders, 1895 Susan B. Anthony, the great national suffragist leader, was a friend of the Mormon women. In 1888 Mormon leaders were invited to attend a great congress of women called in Washington, D. C. The Relief Society sent representatives and Relief Society became a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States and thus participates in the International Council of Women. The education year with weekly meetings is on an eight-month basis. Courses are given in rotation for the eight months in the fields of theology, literature, and social science. These adult classes stress the importance of class participation. These courses are written by experts in their fields under the direction of General Board committees. The purposes of Relief Society which they tend to acomplish are: To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of woman's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the gospel. A Weekly Education Meeting J M HESLOP ge: Shiigecgane med: 8? Gh - " ' » Singing Mothers Chorus in the Salt Lake Tabernacle Singing has ever been in the hearts of Relief Society members, whether they were crooning to their babies in a wagon box, in a log cabin, or in a split-level home toda%y. Singing Mother choruses are located in every stake. In 1963 there were 41,865 Singing Mothers of Relief Society. Concerts are held periodically in some localities, music is furnished for funerals, and choruses render music at small and large Church gatherings. An International Singing Mothers Chorus, made up of a few LORRY RYTTING presentatives of Relief Society of the Nations at Dedication of the Relief Society Building, 1956 Relief Society Singing Mothers from Utah, combined with Relief Society members of the British Isles, made a tour in 1961 in the British Isles. On June 24 and 25, 1964, two Singing Mother concerts, composed of Singing Mothers of the Washington, Potomac, Philadelphia, New Jersey, New York, and Boston Stakes, are being held each day in the Pavilion at the New York World's Fair. RAY G. JONES Under the tutelage of President Brigham Young a woman's periodical was begun in 1872, whose banner read "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." This periodical became The Relief Society Magazine in 1914. All the Relief Society courses of study appear in this periodical as well as instruction from Church and Relief Society leaders and the creative writings of women. It now has a circulation of over 220,000, and is a binding force in welding the Relief Society members together. Articles from The Relief Society Magazine are translated into the different languages and appear in the foreign Relief Society mission publications. In Salt Lake City, Utah, across the street from Salt Lake Temple Square, is situated The Relief Society Building, the headquarters of Relief Society. Over half Relief Society Periodicals of Many Lands we. Wi" + 2fbesemad ot Wicd Y U0 J. M. HESLOP a million dollars were contributed by Relief Society members in the one year October 1947—-October 1948. This amount was matched by Church funds and the building site was allocated to Relief Society. Gifts from Relief Societies throughout the world adorn it. The interest in present-day activities of vital concern to women everywhere is nurtured in Relief Society. On a national basis support is given to the great national health programs through the pages of The Relief Society Magazine, and, through the personal attention of President Belle S. Spafford, contacts are kept with such worthwhile programs as the American Mothers Committee, and Practical Nursing, and the affiliation continues with the National Council of Women of the United States. Relief Society Headquarters, Salt Lake City, Utah Main Lounge, Relief Society Building The names of the great leaders of Relief Society are indelibly imprinted upon the progress of women throughout the world. Woman's advancement has come since the day in 1842 when the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women in this last dispensation. The restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ has restored to woman on earth her true place in the eternal plan. Relief Society is an ensign to women in the world. If there is anything "virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy," the members of Relief Society seek after those things. J. M. HESLOP 2! Pea | we Mrs. Hannah Adelina Johnson Nyquist, Weiser, Idaho, has: found much happiness in her handicraft accomplishments. She has made dozens of beautifully designed knitted and crocheted afghans, and many colorful crocheted and braided rugs. Her afghans are patterned in both striped and block designs, many of them original with Sister Nyquist. She has an exacting and harmonious sense of color combinations and uses. Advantageously color contrasts, as well-as various shades of the same color to make her work attractive and artistic. She is generous with gifts of her handwork to her family and friends, and particularly to her ward Relief Society for their bazaars. Now nearly ninety-eight years old, Sister Nyquist was born in Enkotang, Sweden, and joined the Church as a girl in her native land. She came to Utah in 1889 and lived for many years in Cache Valley. She is mother to eight children, grandmother to fourteen, and has several great-grandchildren. She keeps house for herself and. A son, and that, she says, keeps her busy and happy. 690 ir all started in the year of the grasshoppers — three years ago. My son Charles, then three, came rushing into the house. Little did I know then that the trend had started. "Mommy, Mommy," he called, holding a wiggling insect in his hands. "It? S a grasshopper," I told him. I put it on the ground and showed him how it could hop. Then he discovered that there were other grasshoppers in the world. I found that there were grasshoppers in my world, too — in empty peanut butter jars, in empty fruit jars, in pop bottles, in tin cans — all collected for whatever reason little boys collect things. That summer passed, as did the grasshoppers, and my snakes, Snails, and Puppy Dog Janice Dixon winter was peaceful. The grasshoppers were buried safely in the ground and no longer occupied window sills, toy boxes, bureau drawers, or cupboards. With the summer came new worlds to be collected. My son was interested in everything creepy or crawly. "T'yve just made some bird spaghetti," Charles announced one day. "That's nice," I said calmly. One must always be calm around children. "What did you make the spaghetti from?" I asked. This is always dangerous — asking children questions. They are likely to tell you. "Worms!" he said proudly. "Tye got a hundred worms for the birds." I looked at the worms, long 691 SEPTEMBER 1964 and wiggly, placed in an aluminum plate waiting for the birds. When I had disposed of all the bodies I breathed deeply, knowing that my son was growing up. I hoped for an early winter. Christmas came and went and so did the Christmas trees — they went out of the homes and into our yard. "T'm making a tree house," Charles explained. Isn't that cute? I thought, seeing five or six trees piled in the backyard. "The Boy Scouts will come and take them this Saturday." I went about my work until I noticed a green column like a procession of parasol ants, headed for my back yard. It was a parade of little boys lugging and pulling on sleds — more Christmas trees. I gasped when I looked outside. It looked like a Christmas tree lot in November. I called the Scout leader to make sure the Scout troop didn't miss our house when they disposed of the trees. Then I proceeded to disband the army of solemn-faced little boys who were only following General Charles' command. THE next summer brought the butterflies, but this was a passing phase, and only minor in comparison to the rocks. "Look at this beautiful rock," Charles said, turning the small pebble in the sun. I was delighted that the insect collecting would soon be replaced. His father took him to a museum and showed him the different minerals and metals, the hard rocks and the soft rocks. Something in my son's head started to turn. The next day I found a 692 bushel basketful of dirty rocks on my porch. "Who put these rocks here?" I demanded. "It's my _ collection," said Charles. '"They're very valuable rocks."' I also found a collection of rocks in his pockets and in his shoes. "It's just a passing phase," said his father. "It will pass like the others. I had hobbies as a boy. Every boy needs a hobby." This sounded sensible. Sensible, that is, until I found a second bushel basketful of rocks on the porch. While I was deciding whether to have a rock garden or start whirling missiles, my doorbell rang. A little boy, aged five, stood there, a large box in his hands. "Charles wants my rock collection," he said. "Mamma said I could share with him." As I stood with my mouth open, a troop of other small fry marched to the rock basket and distributed their contributions. That night my husband looked at the growing rock mound and reached an immediate decision. "The rocks will have to go!" "Can't I have any?" Charles pleaded, the tears filling his eyes. We took a look at the rocks, then at his pleading face. "You may select twenty-five rocks," we decided. It was a hard decision. Each rock was more beautiful than the last one. But the next day all but twenty-five rocks were gone. They barely filled the bottom of the bushel basket. A few days later I looked outside when I heard the familiar squeak of my son's wagon. "What do you have?' I queried, seeing a boulder in the wagon. "It's just a rock for my rock collection," Charles announced. His shirt was dirty and torn. "Il decided to have this one (indicating the boulder) instead of this one' (indicating a pebble). Then I noticed his two little friends, also with dirty shirts. "We had to dig to get this beautiful rock,' Charles' explained. The three boys worked hard and finally got the rock out of the wagon and into the rock collection basket. It nearly filled the basket. What to do now? We had given our word that he could have twenty-five rocks, but we had no idea that he would choose such large ones. I thought there weren't many large rocks around the neighborhood, but he found them all. His father objected, especially when the rocks and sticks in the collection made their way to the backyard and had to be cleared off before he dared mow the lawns. Again I hoped for winter. This had been a hard summer. Steven, our second son, was collecting grasshoppers. I cleaned out fifteen bottles of dead grasshoppers the day the first snow fell. WINTER came, and with it came kindergarten with all of the lovely pictures that a five-year-old can draw. I didn't mind the portrait of myself (cross-eyed and bald), but the thought of six fingers on one hand and four fingers on the other slightly unnerved me. One picture was nice, two were nice, but they kept comSNAKES, SNAILS, AND PUPPY DOG TAILS ing, one-two-three pictures a day. "Hang them on the wall," suggested Charles, '"'so that everybody can see them." I tried to throw a few away, but my son kept track of every one. "We'll make a book of your pictures," I said, after all the walls were covered. "'We'll choose only the nicest pictures to save." We threw bundles of papers away and narrowed them down to only sixty-nine pictures. Where shall I put these? I wondered. I got a cardboard box and put them away for the time being. Then the teacher, as a special surprise, outlined my son fullsize on paper. This life-sized paper doll stared at me from the wall for several months until I suggested we save it for posterity. SumMeErR is coming. The warm air is bringing the flowers and the insects. I was making the bed the other day when a snake slithered in front of me. It looked like a rattler. "Charles," I screamed, running out of the room and closing the door, "where did you get that snake?" "From Jerome," he said. "Don't touch that snake!" I ordered. "It's only a garter snake," he explained, loftily. He picked up the snake and watched it coil and recoil. "Why did you get a snake?" I gasped. "To be a friend for my turtle," he answered. "What turtle?" "The one Jerome gave me." I explained that the animals 693 SEPTEMBER 1964 needed fresh air or they would die. He considered the idea thoughtfully and pulled out three more boxes of snakes from his Sunday clothes drawer and took them outside. I was left to sort through the rest of the collection... Butterflies, cereal trading cards, assorted sticks and clubs. Steven has now discovered the fun in collecting insects, worms, and other distasteful objects; Daniel, my third son, brought me his first grasshopper and bouquet of dandelions. I looked over the assorted collections: rocks, insects, trading cards, pictures, schoolwork. They were all gathered with love. I couldn't throw them away, but what could I do with them? I decided to call the person who must know the answer to my problem — my mother-in-law. She must know, she had reared a boy. "T'll be right down," she said. "T know exactly what to do with them." She arrived, armed with boxes. "These were my son's," she said. "I've been wondering what to do with them myself." I looked inside. I saw rocks, insects, trading cards, pictures, schoolwork. Then I knew what to do with Charles', Steven's, and Daniel's collections. I would save them for their wives! Old Wagon Wheel Jeanette Swanson A wheel encrusted in an ironwood tree! How came it here, as if a hasty hand Had cast it out? Did some catastrophe Wipe out a lonely, west-bound band? Perhaps the emigrants made camp one night Beside the wash, and warriors found them there Unguarded and alone.... Only the desert moonlight Witnessed the deed; heard the cries of despair. Perhaps they paused for noontide rest In dappled shade, and carelessly threw out This wheel we find embedded in the breast Of an ironwood, now grown old and stout. We only dream. No one now can reveal How came this alliance of tree and wheel. 694 fearerom FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent - through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Denver Stake (Colorado) Ward and Branch Relief Society Magazine Representatives Achieve Outstanding Record Front row, seated, left to right: Fern Olsen; Opal Jones; Ramona Delgado; Daisy Gillaspie. Back row, standing, left to right: Denver Stake Magazine representative Katherina Belmain; Afton Riches; Norma S. Prior, Victoria Carpentar; Annabelle Nelson; Evelyn Mosier. Ilah K. Smith, President, Denver Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of ward and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives have made a very outstanding record in the last two years. In 1962 they placed over 100 per cent in subscriptions in each ward and branch, giving the Denver Stake 112.3 per cent. They were second highest in Magazine subscriptions' gain in the Church. In 1963 they again raised their record to over 101 per cent in each ward and branch, which gave the Denver Stake 111 per cent. Sister Gillaspie of Castle Rock Branch achieved the highest, with 157 per cent. Sister Delgado of the Spanish-American Branch had 153 per cent, even with one-fourth of her branch unable to speak English. We are very proud of the fine record this group of sisters have made, and we are eagerly looking forward to new records in the future." 695 SEPTEMBER 1964 Grand Coulee Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, February 1964 Standing in the front row, at the left, in dark dresses, left to right: Eileen S. Peterson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Anne R. Gledhill, representing the General Board of Relief Society; Grace P. Swinyard, of the Primary Association General Board. At the left, second row, left to right: Mary Cornelson, Second Counselor, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Barbara Gilbert, First Counselor; Kay Smith, organist; Joan Hughes, accompanist. Eighth from the left, in white blouse: chorister Luana Johnson. Sister Peterson reports: '""'The Singing Mothers of the Grand Coulee Stake presented two beautiful numbers at the quarterly conference. The singers represented twelve wards throughout the stake." Palmyra Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Inspirational Program "Words and Music"' February 27, 1964 Front row, right to left, beginning with the women in dark dresses: Mabel S. Banks, newly released first counselor; Lucille Robinson, literature class leader, and author and narrator of the script presented at the program; Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society; Donna G. Anderson, Second Counselor; Verda F. Tuckett, organist; Lenore Measom, chorister. The newly appointed First Counselor Florence F. Cope stands in the second row from the back, third from the right. Sister Swenson reports: "On February 27, 1964, an inspirational program - of 'Words and Music' was presented by the ten-ward Singing Mothers chorus of Palmyra Stake at Spanish Fork, Utah. Each ward chorus sang one song, which helped to develop the theme 'I Heard America Singing.' The songs were chosen from the works of well-known and beloved American composers. Among the composers honored were the Latter-day Saint women Eliza R. Snow, Florence Jepperson Madsen, and Mirla Thayne. Sister Thayne was present and was paid a special tribute as her song 'I Wonder When He Comes Again' was sung by one of the ward choruses. As a special guest, she was presented with a lovely floral arrangement.... Refreshments were served to approximately 450 sisters. Nursery leaders cared for ninety children, most of whom were the children of the young mothers singing in the chorus. All who attended the program enjoyed it and were enthusiastic about it. Many have expressed their desire that this may become an annual affair." North Rexburg Stake (Idaho), Hibbard Ward Relief Society All-Day Work Meeting February 11, 1964 Seated: Vera W. Parker, work meeting leader, holding a Lone-Star quilt. Standing, left to right: Nina C. Ricks, First Counselor, holding a handappliqued rose quilt; Belva P. Withers, President, displaying an around-theworld quilt; Edna B. Jensen, Second Counselor, holding a hand-appliqued pond-lily quilt. Ada S. Sharp, President, North Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "The officers of the Hibbard Ward Relief Society were well pleased when fiftyeight sisters turned out to an all-day work meeting planned to stimulate greater interest in quilting among the sisters. The meeting started in the morning, and the last quilt was taken from the frames at 5:15 p. M. There were seventy-four sisters enrolled in the Hibbard Ward Relief Society. The ward was divided into four districts, with Reba R. Widdison, Elizabeth K. Neville, Harriet L. Rigby, and Flora Belle J. Johnson as chairmen. Each sister in the district was contacted by her chairman and invited to attend the work meeting. Lunch was served to eighty-three, which included the children. A day-long nursery was maintained." 696 Wasatch Stake (Utah), Midway First Ward Honors Visiting Teachers at Opening Social, October 1, 1963 "The year 1963 marked the fiftieth anniversary of 100 per cent visiting teaching in the Midway First Ward Relief Society. A most successful social was held on Tuesday, October 1, 1963. A large number were in attendance. Bishop Burton Van Wagoner was the honored guest. Belva Luke was chairman of the lunch committee. The room and tables were cleverly decorated with miniature meetinghouses of the architecture of 1913 and 1963, with dolls representing visiting teachers in the style of each period. Lovely fall flowers were effectively used. Large, gold-colored figures of the number "50" were placed. Appropriately among the decorations. Mildred Larsen, Wilma Chavez, and Wilma Pope were in charge of decorations. '""A most impressive program followed the lunch. There were special stage settings depicting the important accomplishments of the visiting teachers since 1913—the year the goal was set. It was Emily S: Coleman, President, Midway: First Ward Relief Society, who, in 1913, with the help of her counselors and Bishop John Van Wagoner established the goal. The gathering of wheat, the filling of storehouses with grain, sending flour to stricken Europe, and to the distressed following the San Francisco earthquake, selling the wheat to the Government, the giving of wheat to the Priesthood for seed to be distributed to the farmers, the visiting of the sick, the distribution of clothing to the needy, were all dramatized in special scenes. '"'Music was furnished by Barbara B. Johnson, Wilma Chavez, Judy Milliner, and Maxine Carlisle. A picture of each Relief Society president was flashed upon the screen as each: period's program was reviewed. Georgia Dawn Clegg had charge of the splendid program. Thelma Hair was the reader, and Wilma Chavez was the stage director. '""A special award was given to Martha Burgi for fifty years: service as a visiting teacher. Other awards were given for long years of service as visiting teachers, ranging from twenty to forty-seven years. Flowers were presented to every visiting teacher present." Hamburg Stake (Germany) Relief Society Handwork Displayed at Stake Conference March 14th and 15th, 1964 Liselotte Schrader, President, Hamburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "On the 14th and 15th of March, 1964, our stake conference was held in Hamburg, Germany. This time Sister Mary Young of the General Board of Relief Society visited us to give instructions to the Relief Society officers. We have eleven Relief Societies within our stake, and officers from every one were present. We held wonderful meetings and learned much of how to help our. Sisters more effectively. "We took the opportunity at this conference to have a display of handmade articles from the following wards: Eppendorf, Altona, Hamburg, Luneburg, Harburg, Pinneberg, and Luebeck. The picture shows a part of the displayed handwork. It will be seen that the articles which the sisters here in Germany prefer to make are: pillows, aprons, crocheted pot holders, tablecloths, and wall carpets. Most of the handwork was done in Relief Society work meetings. "We especially enjoyed the presence of the President of the European Mission, Elder Ezra T. Benson, a member of the Council of the Twelve. He visited our displays with interest." 698 699 = DORGTE LT no Meme. Em North Argentine Mission Relief Society Conducts Seminar at Cordoba November 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Elsa Sarrodes; Afton Anderson; Worcas Barragan; Rosa Villareal; Rosa Amutio. Back row, standing, left to right: Olga Romero; Carlota Funes; Alice Allred; Narciasa Cena; Juana Vergés. Patricia J. Stone, Supervisor, North Argentine Mission Relief Society, reports: "Recently the leaders of the Relief Society in the North Argentine Mission held their bi-annual meetings. The meetings were held in the newly completed offices of the mission located in a subdivision of Cérdoba. "The responsibility of leadership falls upon the Argentine sisters. All of the branch and district officers are Argentine 'hermanas.' "The conference was carried out under the direction of Sister Lubormirski and Sister Stone. General instructions were given to the sisters, and each of them had a chance to express herself and put forward new ideas for the betterment of the organization. A large testimony meeting was held at the end of the two-day conference, in which the sisters had the opportunity of gaining a better spirit of the work and to return to the various districts with a renewed spirit of dedication. ""A quilting bee was an interesting sidelight of the conference. Alice Allred, the wife of a construction supervisor building a chapel in Argentina, showed the Argentine sisters the art of quilting, and it was a great motivator for all of them. Sister Judd of Salt Lake City, Utah, was visiting the mission with her daughter Patricia Judd Stone. Sister Judd also took an active part in the quilting, and her skill was the envy of all her Argentine sisters. "The Relief Society is well organized in the North Argentine Mission and serves well the 2,500 members." British Mission Relief Society Presents Talent Concert for Relief Society Anniversary, March 14, 1964 Standing, left to right, front row, beginning fourth from the left: Maxine Hanks (in black dress), former supervisor of Mission Relief Societies, wife of former mission president Marion D. Hanks; Evangeline T. Beesley, President, British Mission Relief Society; Monta Gardner and Mary Timmins, Counselors. Also represented in the picture are mission district and branch presidencies. Sister Beesley reports: ""We were delighted with the response of the Singing Mothers. There were 110 sisters singing together, having been trained by local leaders, and by me, as I was able to travel about to meet with them. It was remarkable that their singing was so unified and beautiful, for many were unable to be with us in the one combined rehearsal held a few days prior to the concert. The sisters were alert and eager to sing their best, and they touched the hearts of their listeners. Many tributes have come to the mission as to the good impression made by them on members and investigators. We feel that we were especially blessed in the rendition of our numbers. "The talent numbers representing each district were varied and interesting. They consisted chiefly of musical numbers, instrumental solos, a chorus, and vocal duets. There were entertaining readings, and a skit was presented. Later, during the refreshments, a skit was presented from the stage, as well as a dance. There were about 350 people present, including members of the Priesthood, investigators, and friends. A wonderful spirit of friendliness and love, of cooperation and accomplishment marked the afternoon. We were happy that both Sister Emma Marr Petersen, wife of President Mark E. Petersen, of the West European Mission, and Sister Maxine Hanks could be with us." Christine H. Robinson is the new supervisor of the British Mission Relief Society. 700 Relief Society play ' The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan' was given in the evening. Work will be the result." 701 ie = k ~ wy. Non: "i ¥ ~™ ym 74, A ee ~ @ a ' S Lesson Department [ 4 THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 59 The Church Independent (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 78 and 83) For First Meeting, December 1964 Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church. INTRODUCTION It will be remembered that the Prophet Joseph Smith, aided by Sidney Rigdon as scribe, was engaged in the revision of the Bible when he received the revelation known as the "Vision." After this glorious revelation was received the Prophet continued his work on the Bible while residing in Hiram, Ohio. The interest of the saints concerning the building of Zion upon the American Continent continued unabated. Although the first revelation concerning the laws that would apply in the building up of Zion was received about _ thirteen months before this time, it was necessary to reemphasize and implement the instructions concerning the fundamental law of consecration, one of the major laws to bring Zion to fruition. 702 Section 78 was received in response to the need to point up further the importance of this law in the establishing of Zion. Closely associated with this objective was the corollary objective of independence of the Church in this world. In the first two verses of Section 78, the assembled members of the Melchizedek Priesthood, because of their inquiry about the law of consecration (sometimes called the ''United Order'), were told that they should receive words of wisdom for their salvation in this Order. Beginning with this revelation and in a number of Sections which follow, persons, places, and objects are given unusual names. The superscription of Section 78 informs us that it was undesirable at that time that this infor- mation be known. Later, as in our present edition of the Doctrine and Covenants, both names are given. BACKGROUND In February 1831, the revelation known as the "Law" (Section 42) was given that the saints might know how to build Zion upon the earth. In 'this revelation and subsequent instruction, the Lord said that the saint should consecrate his belongings for the common good of all the members of the Church in that Order. In. Surrendering his possessions by legal title, it was said that each person should receive a stewardship to be worked by the individual for himself, his family, his circumstances, wants, and needs. The residues or surpluses from the stewardship were to be set aside for many purposes. And again, if there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a residue to be: consecrated unto the bishop, it shall. Be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants. Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my storehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy, as shall be appointed by the high council of the. Church, and the bishop and his council; And for. The purpose of purchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of worship, and building up of the New Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed (D&C 42:33-35). On April 30, 1832, while the ' Prophet was in council with some of the brethren in Missouri, LESSON DEPARTMENT he received a revelation which answered the questions of some concerning widows and orphans under the law of consecration. (Section 83.) Basic principles of responsibility are laid down in Section 83. The husband is to provide for his wife and children. With the loss of one. Parent the other parent is responsible for the care of the children. (Verses 2, 4.) In the event that the husband and father is dead, the Church provides for the: widow and children out of the storehouse. (Verse 6.) It was also provided that the poor could receive inheritances from the storehouse. Another principle of importance which is clarified in this revelation is that when children reach a time when they need an inheritance and the parents are unable to-provide it from their own inheritance, the Church may provide an inheritance for the children. (Verse 5.) Worthiness is a standard that also determines who should receive from the Church. Cevl With the foregoing purposes and principles of the law of consecration set forth, the Lord said that when these purposes were put into operation,. A wonderful blessing would. Come to the indi- — vidual and to the Church. Equality im temporal things would serve to enhance the glory of God through man's salvation. That you may be equal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things. For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things; 703 SEPTEMBER 1964 For if you will that I give unto you a place in the celestial world, you must prepare yourselves by doing the things which I have commanded you and required of you. And now, verily thus saith the Lord, it is expedient that all things be done unto my glory, by you who are joined together in this order (D&C 78:5-8). The equality of temporal goods here does not mean that everyone has exactly the same possessions, but sufficient for his purpose according to his wants and needs. Concerning this President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said:... Obviously, this is not a case of "'dead-level" equality. It is "equality" that will vary as much as the man's circumstances, his family, his wants and needs, may vary (Conference Report, October 4, 1942, page 55). President Brigham Young said the plan of the gospel envisions a oneness consisting of the temporal as well as the _ spiritual. (Journal of Discourses 17:40.) The Lord had said that the world was in sin because some possessed that which was above others. (D&C 49:20.) Fundamental to the law of consecration is the principle that everything belongs to the Lord; therefore, whatever one possesses may be surrendered if called for to build up Zion. (Ibid., 104:14- 17, 54-57.) With this and other principles in mind, Elder John A. Widtsoe has given us some basic principles of the United Order: Its objective was to provide every man who is willing to work with the necessities and the comforts of life, thus abolishing poverty from the earth. It was to be a cooperative plan but directly opposed to modern communism, since it recognized man as a free agent, respected the rights of private property, and preserved and encouraged individual initiative. 704 The United Orler thus established rests upon four basic principles. First, the earth is the Lord's. Men are only stewards of their possessions. All that man has should be _ used therefore in accordance with the Lord's expressed will.; Second, all men are children of God — of a divine family. Therefore, the Lord requires that they must help one another as needs arise, provided that he who will not work shall have no claim upon his brother. Third, every man must be respected as a free agent. He may enter the order at his pleasure. Once in the order, he must be allowed to use, fully, and as he pleases, any properties placed in his hands. He may leave the order at his pleasure. Fourth, the government of the order is vested in a central agency, sustained by the members of the order, presided over by the bishop, his counselors, and such helpers as may be needed. This central agency would have power to adjust the disputes normally arising among strongly individualized human being (Joseph Smith, pp. 192-3). FOR MY GLORY When men work out their own salvation it redounds to the glory of God. (Moses 1:39.) The elders named in verse 9 of Section 78 were to follow the instruction to visit the brethren in Zion (Missouri) and sit in council with them on matters relating to the United Order. They were reminded of Satan's efforts to blind the eyes of those who are under covenant to follow the commandments. When a person enters into an agreement with the Lord under the new and everlasting covenant (the gospel or any of its covenants, such as the law of consecration), he is expected to comply with all aspects of that covenant. Rewards or blessings for observance of the law may be expected by those who observe the full requirements.. On the other hand, as in the case of these brethren, disobedience brings loss of calling, as well as being turned over to the buffetings of Satan. (Verse 12.) a in All blessings and promises of the Lord are fulfilled upon obedience to the principles upon which they are predicated. In 1832, the Lord promised the saints that by obedience to the law of consecration the Church would become independent above all other creatures on the earth. (D&C 78:13-14.) Although the members of that early period did not obey the covenant of consecration, the promise is still in effect. The Church is today a light unto the world, and it will continue to be a standard for the nations. (Ibid., 115:4-6.) When _ the Lord's organization becomes the power in the world it is destined to be, it will then be independent from all other organizations, whether political, financial, or industrial. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 482.) In connection with these ideas and, particularly, the place of the Church as a light for the world, Elder John A. Widtsoe said: Some day the world under stern necessity will adopt and practice the economic program known to _ the Church as the United Order — but in a manner wholly different from Socialism or Communism (Joseph Smith, page 197). One should remember that the Lord has commanded us to be united as a people that salvation may be ours and that his work may make the necessary progress LESSON DEPARTMENT for the betterment of mankind. Such unified action would contribute to the prophesied independence of the Church. The member of the Church has covenanted to work for the advancement of the Church members individually and the Church as an organization. Agreeable to this truth, Elder Harold B. Lee, of the Council of the Twelve, has given us some ways in which the Latter-day Saint may fulfill this responsibility:... If we would be united in paying our fast offerings and observing the law of the fast as fully as the Lord has taught it, and if we were united in carrying out the principles of the welfare program as they have been given to us by our leaders today, we would be free from want and distress and would be able fully to care for our own. If we were fully united as a people in our missionary work, we would rapidly hasten the day when the gospel would be preached to all people without and within the boundaries of the organized stakes of Zion. If we were fully united in keeping the law of sacrifice and paying our tithes as we have been schooled today, we would have sufficient to build our temples, our chapels, our schools of learning. If we were united as a people in electing honorable men to high places in our civil government, regardless of the political party with which we have affiliation, we would be able to safeguard our communities and to preserve law and order among us. If we were united in safeguarding our youth from promiscuous associations that foster marriages out of the Church and out of the temples, by having socials and recreations as a united people, as has been the practice from our pioneer days, we would be building all our Latter-day Saint homes on a sure and happy foundation. If we were united in safeguarding the Church from false doctrines and error and in standing as watchmen 705 SEPTEMBER 1964 upon the tower as teachers and leaders in watching over the Church, then we would be free from these things that cause many to stumble and fall and lose their faith.... If we were united in our temple work and in our genealogical research work, we would not be satisfied with the present temples only, but we would have sufficient work for temples yet to come, to the unlocking of the doors of opportunity to those beyond who are our own kin, and thus ourselves become saviors on Mount Zion... (Conference Report, April 1950, pp. 96-97). To the degree that the saints are a united people, the general purposes of the Lord will be fulfilled. But, as far as the individual is concerned, there cannot be salvation in its highest sense if he is not united with the onward, progressive movement of the Church as an organization. In the 1830's the Saints were warned of coming tribulation before the day of complete fulfillment of the promises. (D&C 58:1-5; 78:14.) The world has yet many tribulations to endure because, in the main, it will not give heed to the words of the living prophets. (Ibid., 45:25-33.) Preparation for the future in terms of economic welfare has been the counsel of the General Authorities for many years. In the 1941 general conference Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve said: A brief review of the past instruction of our leaders should only serve to warn the disobedient and to encourage the obedient to continue faithful. Today listen to the words of President Wilford Woodruff that he spoke more than forty years ago: "So far as temporal matters are 706 concerned, we have got to go to work and provide for ourselves. The day will come when you will see the necessity for making your own shoes and clothing, raising your own food, and uniting together to carry out the purposes of the Lord. We will be preserved in the mountains of Israel in the day of God's judgment." I therefore say to you, my brethren and sisters, prepare for that which is to come (Conference Report, October 1941, page 114). ATDARA rl é JR PRINCE When the Church becomes independent from all other creatures in the world through the providence of God, then those who have endeavored by preparation for that event shall be made rulers over many kingdoms. Exaltation in the celestial kingdom gives rulership over kingdoms and_ posterity. (D&C 78:14-15.) This message serves as an introduction to some information regarding Adam, the progenitor of the human race. This is the first time in the modern revelations where Adam-ondiAhman is mentioned. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pages 482-3.) This is the place where Adam met with his posterity and gave them a patriarchal blessing. (D&C 107:53-57.) Adam-ondi-Ahman is __ located north of Jackson County in Daviess County, Missouri. The Holy One of Zion, who hath established the foundations of Adamondi-Ahman; Who hath appointed Michael your prince, and established his feet, and set him upon high, and given unto him the keys of salvation under the counsel and direction of the Holy One, who is without beginning of days or end of life (Ibid., 78:15-16). These verses give us an under- standing of the position that Adam holds in Latter-day Saint belief. Adam is the prince over all of his posterity and as such will preside over them, under the direction of the Holy One who is Jesus Christ, when the earth becomes celestialized. (Ibid., 107: 54-55.) CONCLUSION The saints at that day, and today, are little children in an understanding of the great blessings in store for the faithful. Though one might know that many kingdoms may be ruled (D&C 78:15, 17) and all things inherited (verse 22), few understand what this means. We can understand LESSON DEPARTMENT present blessings, and we may thrill in the contemplation of great blessings to come if we are wise stewards; consequently, the Lord reminds us that what is now received should be accepted in thankfulness. If this is done, then the riches of eternity are ours. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Give a brief review of the essential principles of the law of consecration. 2. What additional information about this law is given in Section 83? 3. Discuss: Equality of members in the United Order. 4. How may the members of the Church become united in achieving the goal of independence for the Church? On Seeing a Son off to School Evalyn M. Sandberg His hand leaves mine. He saunters down the hill, All dignity and new-found poise, And he is only five. He turns and waves. Alone — and yet not quite alone. Still held Upon that silver strand By which a mother claims her child. |! Would not have him walk alone; Yet walk alone he must. Dear God in heaven: Regard my child. Do keep him in thy trust. 707 'at 4 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants; ' ~ > 2 x A _ Web Fo P "7 « Christine H. Robinson Message 59 "'Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor..."". (D&C 82:19) For First Meeting, December 1964 Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the love of our neighbors, our actions must show genuine interest in and concern for others. INTEREST in, concern for, and service to others form the foundation of the good Christian life. Throughout his ministry the Savior emphasized that the greatest joy and happiness come to those who center their lives on love and service to others. Jesus. Said, "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you" (John 15:12)./Interest in, concern for, and service to others is the only genuine manifestation of true love. One of the best known and most dramatic examples of concern for a neighbor is the Savior's story of the good Samaritan. Unlike others who had passed by the wounded man without helping him, the Samaritan bound up his wound, provided needed medicine and took him to an inn for further care. His compassion prompted the Savior to ask the question, "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him?" (See Luke 10:30-37.) 708 Without doubt the best way to show our love to our Father in heaven and to deserve his blessings is to love and serve one another. Real joy, accomplishments, and personal success come through selfless service. Someone has said, '""Man becomes successful and great exactly in the as ' degree to which he works for the— welfare of his fellow men."~The emphasis in this thought is on-*" Love without °~ work and deeds. Manifestation does not feed the heart any more than a locked bread box feeds the body. The importance of deeds rather than mere thoughts or prayers on behalf of our neighbors is beautifully illustrated in the following poem: I knelt to pray as day began And prayed, "O God bless every man." Lift from each weary heart some pain And let the sick be well again. And then I rose to meet the day And thoughtlessly went on my way; I took no steps to ease the load Of hard-pressed travelers on the road.. LESSON DEPARTMENT I didn't even go to see another, we seek to build him up ne gick friend Who lives next door in his own eyes and to make him But then 4gain when day was done feel he IS lMpor tant and needed Prayed, "Q God, bless every one " © encourage him to noble en ut as I prayed a voice rang clear deavor, and Constant] assure wneucting me to think and hear 'him of our ¢ nfidence jn him and Onsult your Own heart ere you | y, al pray: of our friendship, / Someone has What £00d have you Performed to sa ' 'More People in ' AM.,. This world hunger for king Od's ¢ Oicest €ssings are estowed. Nn those Who h P him bear the load." Ness, Symp athy, "omradeshi Ron and love than are hungering for ymous);. " ett S bread." 72. Oa De. Lex world Let us resolve today to Speak and more the kind Word, write the note of T lives be 4Ppreciation, offer commendawe depend tion for some t upon the € have Interest and d. We all Concern for his Well-bein and try TIT shall Pass this wa but nd neigh once; any good thing therefore that J can do, or any kindness Incere Interest that I can show, let me do it now Others ans et me not defer jt or neglect jt Ods. For I shall not pass for again" this Way ( Anonymous De Autumn Raiment Ethe| Jacobson =! WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Discussion 3: Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) For Second Meeting, December 1964 Objective: To see the effect of our personal attractiveness As everyone knows, what we are inside reflects on the outside, and conversely, how we look on the outside affects the way we feel inside. When we are dressed appropriately—from the moment we get out of bed in the morning until we retire at night—our confidence increases, our spirits brighten, we are more efficient, and we are happier. Our families feel this and respond—feeling a little more sure of themselves and proud of us. A decisive beginning to the day on the part of mother can influence the attitude of the family. If she is up and dressed, with her hair combed, the day has definitely begun. She feels good because she is 'on top" of things, and her family feels good because she looks like she is ''on top" of things. In that home happiness can rise with the sun. (Three things to be worn as little as possible are hair curlers, housecoats or robes, and bedroom slippers! ) 710 on our own and our family's happiness. Attractiveness begins with cleanliness. Personal habits differ from country to country, depending upon facilities, water supplies, etc., but cleanliness is fundamental and should be achieved by whatever means. A frequent bath not only keeps the body clean and fresh, but brightens the spirit and relieves fatigue. Clothing, too, should be kept fresh and clean. White collars, white gloves, scarves, and underwear should be laundered regularly so they are spotless. Sponge and press outer clothing as needed, and keep shoes polished and in good repair for good grooming. Mothers need to have the proper clothing for their roles as homemaker, hostess, and mother. As with all things, there needs to be a careful balance of mother's going without (as she so often does) to provide more for the children. She should take care of her own needs sufficiently well, to keep the family's pride in her appearance. It is important for each family member to learn to go without occasionally, enabling all to share the family resources. Homemakers should plan wardrobes for around the house just as they do for their social lives. Comfortable and _ well-fitting shoes for working about the house can give a woman hours more energy. Clothes that are simple and loose-fitting not only are easier to wash and iron, but also give the body freedom for stretching or kneeling. A wardrobe should include appropriate clothing for going out casually in public—shopping, to the library, and on errands. It is important to our feeling of well-being and happiness (and to that of our families) to be conscious of our appearance. We should always look acceptable before leaving home. This would apply to dressing appropriately for Relief Society meeting and other Relief Society activities and Church functions. The Church has set standards of dress to which mothers and daughters should adhere. Counsel was given to Relief Society relative to standards of dress by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen in the General Relief Society Conference October 1962. President Smith advised: "'And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithLESSON DEPARTMENT ful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do?" Elder Petersen declared, '""Mothers in Israel, as long as we turn away from modesty in dress and follow the way of the world in style, just that long will we pay the price in a breakdown of morals among the younger generation." By being particular both in standards and neatness of dress, we can set an example that might change the habits of the neighborhood, which in turn could strengthen the attitude of the community, which could build the stature of a nation, which could magnify the world. It is a loving mother or grandmother who makes a special effort to pretty herself up before the family comes. Though there may have been children underfoot all day, there should be a moment to freshen up, to appear neat and clean to greet homecoming family members. This makes for a pleasant remembrance for children to tuck away in their memory chests and attractive picture for a husband to come home to. Let us keep up our appearance so the family can be proud of us. After all, most of us spend the greater part of our waking hours at home and this is where we ought to look our best. For it is here the most important people in the world—our families—will be seeing us! 711 LITERATURE' The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature Elder Bruce B. Clark Lesson 3: Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part 1 (Textbook: Out of the Best Books by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City For Third Meeting, December 1964 Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. OccASIONALLY in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth (1770- 1850), who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books, we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. As Samuel Taylor Coleridge says, Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Arnold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears" and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry. 712 Anr oe th oe i oe a fr Wordsworth's poem best known to Latter-day Saints is the famous '"'Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood," for it is the fullest and most beautiful expression in all literature harmonious with the unique Latter-day Saint doctrine of pre-existence, which extends immortality in both directions, not only forward into post-mortality following death and resurrection, but also backward into pre-mortality before birth. All Christian churches recognize life after death, and many Christian people have a sort of inherent feeling that there is life before birth; but The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints alone teaches as an official doctrine that we mortals existed as individual spirit children with God our Father and exercised our free agency for development in a pre-mortal state. Wordsworth was not, of course, a Latter-day Saint and perhaps never heard of 'Mormonism,' for, born in 1770, he was an old man when the gospel came to England and he died in 1850, when the Church was still very young. But he might well have been an inspired forerunner of the gospel when, in 1805, the very year of Joseph Smith's birth, he wrote: Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: The soul-that rises with us, our life's star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar: Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home. These eight lines come out of the middle of the beautiful '"Immortality" ode. To understand fully what Wordsworth is saying we need to study the entire 204 lines of the poem. We need to know that Wordsworth was endeavoring to lift his friend Coleridge out of the despondency into which Coleridge was plunged because of the personal tragedy of his life and because he could no longer respond to the beauties of nature around him, which heretofore had been the source of his creative inspiration. "I see, not feel, how beautiful they are," said Coleridge in his sadly beautiful poem "Dejection: An Ode." Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834) was not only Wordsworth's great fnend but also a brilliant poet and literary critic, probably the most learned poet of his generation. His skill as a poet and his powers of the imagiLESSON DEPARTMENT nation were astonishing, and yet his personal life was shattered by an agonizing marriage failure, years of excruciating physical sickness, and a woeful lack of self-discipline that threatened to wreck him spiritually and mentally as well as physically. All of this anguish is reflected in Coleridge's "Dejection: An Ode." And Wordsworth's '"Immortality"' ode was written as a direct answer to Coleridge's poem, especially to the central problem of the poem — Coleridge's spiritual despondency caused by a lack of responsiveness to the inspiring beauties of nature. To understand Wordsworth's poem we need to examine its form. Structurally it is what we call an "irregular ode." Each stanza in number of lines, rhyme pattern, length of lines, and meter within the lines is different from every other stanza. Yet rhythm, zhyme, sound, and imagery are at all times so expertly controlled and so harmoniously related to. Meaning that the result is a rich work of art — a miniature symphony of sound fused with a provocative essay of meaning. The poem is structurally divid- "ed into eleven stanzas, but in idea-development it has only three sections. The first four stanzas comprise the first section, in which Wordsworth agrees with Coleridge that as we grow older we can no longer respond spontaneously to the beauties of nature as a child does. Then in the next section, stanzas 5 through 8, Wordsworth endeavors to explain why this is so: that when we were young we were close to God and hence close to 713 SEPTEMBER 1964 the creations of God in nature, but that as we grow older the "prison house" of mortality closes around us and we seem to grow apart from nature. But, continues Wordsworth in the closing section (stanzas 9 through 11), we _ should not grieve over our loss of spontaneous joy in nature, for in the wisdom of maturity that gives us thoughtful insight into the truth of immortality we have "abundant recompense" for all our loss: What though the radiance which was once so bright Be now for ever taken from my sight, Though nothing can bring back the hour Of splendor in the grass, of glory in the flower; We will grieve not, rather find Strength in what remains behind; In the primal sympathy Which having been must ever be; In the soothing thoughts that spring Out of human suffering; In the faith that looks through death, In years that bring the philosophic mind. And so, through the contemplation of God-created beauty in nature, has come a greater understanding of man in relation to eternity. Thanks to the human heart by which we live, Thanks to its tenderness, its joys, and fears, To me the meanest flower that blows can give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears. THE PRELUDE Wordsworth's "Intimations of Immortality" ode is well known in the Church. Most of his other poems are, unfortunately, very 714 little known, yet in them are ideas just as beautifully expressed and as harmonious with gospel teaching as those in the "Immortality" ode. His greatest long poem is "The Prelude," that massive and unique autobiographical work concerned with the ''growth of a poet's mind," as its sub-title indicates. The poem is so long and full that only brief passages can be cited here; but it is so pertinent that not to discuss it would be a mistake. Written in dignified, stately, sonorous' blank verse, it is the fullest poetic treatment in the English language of how childhood experiences and attitudes during the "seedtime" of one's life gradually shape the habits and personality and character of adulthood. A powerful message on the importance of proper environment and training in childhood is implied throughout this long poem, for, as Wordsworth says elsewhere, ""The child is father of the man." And out of all the miscellaneous and sometimes discordant experiences of life '"'the immortal spirit grows like harmony in music." In "The Prelude" we find one of the most eloquent tributes in all literature to the power of nature to dignify and ennoble man: If in my youth I have been pure in heart, If, mingling with the world, I am content With my own modest pleasures, and have lived With God and Nature communing, removed From little enmities and low desires— As cmsif in these times of fear, This melancholy waste of hope o'erthrown, If, 'mid indifference and apathy, And wicked exultation when good men On every side fall off, we know not how, To. Selfishness, names Of peace and quiet and domestic love Yet mingled not unwillingly with sneers On visionary minds; if in this time Of dereliction and dismay, I yet Despair not of our nature, but retain A more than Roman confidence, a faith That fails not, in all sorrow my support, The blessing of my life — the gift is yours, Ye winds and sounding cataracts! 'tis yours, Ye mountains! Think, O Nature! Thou hast fed My lofty speculations; and in thee, For this uneasy heart of ours, I find A never-failing principle of joy And purest passion. Disguised in gentle "The Prelude" goes on to talk of the innate nobility that is man's heritage, and of how, when he conquers the base animal instincts within himself, man can move toward the potentiality of godliness that is his, for "there's not a man that lives who hath not known his godlike hours."' In the remaining books of "The Prelude," fourteen long books in all, Wordsworth talks of many further things that shape one's life for good or bad, especially how faith in immortality can lift one to nobility in mortality. LESSON DEPARTMENT I had inward hopes And swellings of the spirit, was rapt and soothed, Conversed with promises, had glimmering views How life pervades the undecaying mind; How the immortal soul with God-like power Informs, creates, and thaws the deepest sleep That time can lay upon her; how on earth, Man, if he do but live within the light Of high endeavors, daily spreads abroad His being armed with strength that cannot fail. And the conclusion of this lengthy meditation on life and the universe is Faith in life endless, the sustaining thought Of human Being, Eternity, and God. CHARACTER OF THE HAPPY WARRIOR Not so philosophically or artistically rich* as "The Prelude" and the "Intimations of Immortality"' ode but even more directly centered around an ethical message is "Character of the Happy Warrior," which is Wordsworth's fullest description of what he felt man at his best should be. In a narrow sense it characterizes what a military officer ought to be but in a larger sense is a portrait of an ideal leader of men. Such an _ ideal *Lack of artistic richness seriously lessens the poetic attractiveness of "Character of the Happy Warrior." Most readers prefer poetry that communicates through metaphors and other figurative, imagistic phrases. But the language here tends to be direct and literal. The form is blank verse, but it is more prosaic and "flat" than that of Wordsworth's great blank-verse poems such as "Michael" and "The Prelude," or of such a poem as "Intimations of Immortality." Indeed, a good case could be made for calling "Character of the Happy Warrior' a prose essay in iambic pentameter rhythm rather than a genuine poem. The work is included here not for its artistry of language but for its loftiness of message. 715 SEPTEMBER 1964 leader is a man "whose high endeavors are an inward light that makes the path before him always bright," one who "makes his moral being his prime care," and who is even more pure, As tempted more; more able to endure, As more exposed to suffering and distress; Thence, also, more alive to tenderness. Sucu a man "labors good on good to fix and owes to virtue every triumph that he knows." And, if he rises to a position of importance, will do so "by open means" only and remain there "on honorable terms" only. He is trustworthy and dedicated but also humble and unworldly. He is a man whose reasoned control of himself is absolute and whose sole motivation for achievement is the common good, a man so wise and stable that 'through the heat of conflict he keeps the law in calmness made," a man who, though destined to wrestle with great issues, still "leans to homefelt pleasures and to gentle scenes More brave for this, that he hath much to love."' The ideal leader is finally he who Plays, in the many games of life, that one Where what he most doth value must be won: Whom neither shape of danger can dismay, Nor thought of tender happiness betray; Who, not content that former worth stand fast, Looks forward, persevering to the last, From well to better, daily self-surpast. He is not concerned for fame; indeed, he is indifferent to both 716 fame and obscurity. Rather his concern is for an undeviating devotion to some good cause, and he works unselfishly towards this goal "in confidence of Heaven's applause."' What a difference there would be in the world if every military leader, every civic leader, every industrial leader, every religious leader, every political leader had these lofty rules of conduct steadily in mind and_followed them! There is perhaps no higher code of ethics recorded anywhere than Wordsworth's except in the greatest of all sermons spoken on a mountain by the Savior of the world. And fortunately, Wordsworth is consistent, even as Christ was, in his insistence upon honor in human affairs. For example, in "Dion," a poem written late in his life, Wordsworth further explorers ethics in leadership, specifically the problem of whether a good end ever justifies evil means to attain that end, and concludes: Him only pleasure leads, and peace attends, Whose means are fair and spotless as his ends. NOTE TO CLASS LEADERS: Generally the lessons in this new literature series will not concentrate on a single author or on any "movement" in literature, but instead will cover short works (poems, stories, etc.) by several authors, built around a central theme, with emphasis on the works themselves and on their meaning and values. However, the English poet William Wordsworth is so great an affirmer of spiritual values that the lesson for this month centers on several poems by him, as examples of the poetry of faith. In addition to the discussion of Wordsworth given on these pages, the Relief Society literary text contains other material on Wordsworth, including a_ full printing of the "Intimations of Immortality" ode and '"'Character of the Happy Warrior." It also contains an introductory discussion stressing that although there is much pessimism and negativism in some works of literature, through the centuries men of literature, and especially poets, have traditionally been defenders of man's faith and champions of his spiritual ideals. A full discussion of several poems by the great Robert Browning is also included in this section of the text (also to be used for next month's lesson), with supplementary discussions of poems by William Blake, Emily Dickinson, Francis 'Thompson, Gerard Manley Hopkins, and Edith Sitwell. If the literature class leader desires, these supplementary selections may 'be used in the Relief Society lessons to enrich this material on Wordsworth — as determined by the special needs of the ward or branch. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion: 1. To what extent does the wisdom of maturity serve as "abundant recompense" for a loss of the spontaneous joys of youth, as Wordsworth says ln "Intimations of Immortality"? 2. To what extent do children have intuitive knowledge of truth, as Wordsworth also says? 3 Discuss the meaning of the two closing lines of '"Intimations of Immortality': To me the meanest flower that blows can give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears. 4. From the viewpoint of modern psychology. Discuss the meaning of Wordsworth's line: "The child is father of the man." Does your experience support this view of the relationship of maturity to childhood? 5. Discuss the qualities identified by Wordsworth as making an ideal leader of men ("Character of the Happy Warrior'). Are they too lofty to be realistic? Do you know any leaders who measure up? SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 717 BEAUTIFUL MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART VOICES a. ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen 20 » ETERNAL LIFE—Dungan 25, &GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR —Berlin 25 i | I I | I | I I | I I 1 I I I | | l | | l =IN THY FORM—Madsen 20! -_HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn oo onncceccceones25 | | I I | l | I | I | | I I | I 1 I I | iIF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madser 25 MUSIC—Spross - --..2-------630 eeLET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT for Joy—Stephens 20 3 LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Meadsen 20 i LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER—Verdi._ 2 ------+20 oeLORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen 20 SsPRAIRIE LULLABY—Rich _ 20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 \ Please send the music indicated H above. 1 [] On Approval [J Charge i [] Money Enclosed | Name cc. Cece eeeeee eee \ { > Qa Qa ) @ a wv —_— SS a on = oa oe ee ee ee 15 E. Ist south / Salt Lake City 11, Utah] 718 THE HOLY LAND AND MIDDLE EAST @ Leaves October 8, just after LDS Conference. ® 20 days of worry free travel! ® All Expenses Paid! ® Personally conducted all the way by Franklin J. Murdock! Send for your free brochure and full particulars now Murdock Travel, Inc. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Phone: 328-3161 Gentlemen: Please send me my free brochure and full particulars on The Holy Land and Middle East Tour leaving Salt Lake City October 8, 1964. Nemec cece cece cee cecesteseseeaceneeeeceneneee Address ooo c. Ccccececcccee cece cceneeensececenseenceeeneeeeeers City eee eee Zone State -. Murdock Jravel, 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — 328-3161 HAWAII Tours to October 12th TOURS TO OAKLAND TEMPLE Preview and Dedication October through November TOURS TO THE ROSE PARADE in Pasadena, California December through January Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS Vilate R. McAllister — 'THE WORLD'S FAIR VISITING TEACHER" — S. S. A. 25 and Arline M. Scott — "MAGNIFY NGLAND AND YOUR OFFICE" — S. A. 25 NEW ENG "FORGIVEN" (John A. Widtsoe) CANADIAN FALL TOUR contralto solo -25 29 days — August 29 to September 26 "UPON YOU, MY FELLOW SERVANTS" (Priesthood) SOLO nee eee.25 LABOR DAY TOUR Evylyn P, Shelton ~ "ODE To A MESSENGER" (Magazine) 3 days — September 5 to September 7 8.9. Rrr.30 Includes Southern Utah's beautiful parks "MARY AND THE WOMEN WEPT" — S. S. A. 00 30 TOUR Carol G. Gunn — 'JUNE' 4 days — October 3 to October 6 Koes Russell Lowell) 30 Includes preview showing of Oakland "A TRIBUTE TO MOTHER" Temple and San Francisco SBS WA oo seceeeccnscecceaenerevescessssenseeeenea 930 "SOMEWHERE ALONG THE HAWAIIAN TOURS WAY" S. S. A. Ee.30 Beverly J. Pond October 17 to October 31 "AS | GO ON MY WAY" 14 days in the Islands, 7 days (Visiting Teacher) S. S. A.. 30 in the Outer Islands Amelia D. Everett "ANNIVERSARY SONG" (R. S.) 25 "GATES OF ETERNITY" (Temple) 25 Esther James Tours Postpaid from 460 7th Avenue VILATE R. McALLISTER Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 1365 East 4800 South Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 99-8051 Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 BEAUTIFUL GOLD HANDY DURABLE MEDALLION A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment mus? Accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6 -90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 -80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Ae EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, A wonderful new DESERET _fREws PRESS. Way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 719 One Hundred Five Mrs. Mary Ann Brown Clark Provo, Utah One Hundred Mrs. Lucinda A. Pace Redd Monticello, Utah Ninety-nine Mrs. Chloe D. Spencer St. George, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Louisa Rattleye Nelson Ferron, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Elizabeth Duncombe Barker Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Flint House Brigham City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Lucy Smart Parkinson Lloyd Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Effie Ensign Merrill Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsay Bennion Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet Ellen Forbes Adams Layton, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Stena Busk. Elsinore, Utah 720 Ninety-two Mrs. Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Caroline Charlotte Petersen Larsen Sandy, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Laura Martina Christensen Watkins Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Melissa Rasmussen Slaughter Bakersfield, California Mrs. Harriet P. Woodbury St. George, Utah Mrs. Harriet Emily Malin Pack Sacramento, California Mrs. Annie Hay Warburton Lapoint, Utah Mrs. Mary Ellen Wilkinson Bradbury Bell Gardens, California Ninety Mrs. Nellie Osmond Hart Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Hall Kinder Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Ellen Wildman Nessen Howell, Utah Mrs. Eltora Christensen Buchanan Manti, Utah Mrs. Magdaline' Whimpey Glenn Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Augusta |. Casperson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Adella Cowley Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Fhe Stappy ye noestment ~ a When Harold Needham bought his life insurance, he didn't realize that someday the cash value of the purchase would help him to make a very important investment. For several years, Harold and Ruth Needham looked for just the "right" home for their family. It was to bea one-time purchase, and nothing else they did brought so much pleasure as planning for it. Then one day they found it — exactly as they had dreamed! But Harold hadn't saved enough for the substantial down payment needed to make buying the home a good investment. Remembering his life insurance, Harold called on his Beneficial agent and found that he could borrow enough to make up the balance. Harold and Ruth bought their home, thanks to "minute-man"' Beneficial Life service that put the needed money right at their fingertips. It helped them to understand fully how very important life insurance can be. From the Beneficial Life files All names have been changed. BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance con Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 600 million dollars of life imsurance in force Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 