

Vo 51, Number6 June. 1964..-~ be iLessort Previ ews Volume ae: The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Hlustrations: /he SHadoufiald Shirley M. Howard Once earth Called to me, 'Be a tree, Be a tree."' Acorn—lI answered With a leaf, A stem, And a brief Root shooting down; Sending A young trunk Bending in the wind, And a New limb strong Enough for just a bird And a song. Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada Transparency by Lucien Bown Now | Have heard A thousand songs, Stirred In a thousand winds And a Thousand leaves Weave Through my Branches. My roots Lie deep And | keep Thinking That when One is tall The shadowfall Is long Upon An afternoon. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Crater Lake, Oregon Photograph by Don Knight Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Let me congratulate on the beauty of the Magazine. The March number is a dream in color. I loved the article and pictures (on roses) by L. Paul and Dorothy Roberts. Claire Noall's cover is outstanding. The article on painting with glass was very interesting and very colorful. Thanks, also, for the nice spots. My poems have been given. I am thinking of having a series of full-page ones framed as keepsakes. Eva Willes Wangsgaard Ogden, Utah I have continued to enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much and always eagerly wait for the next issue to come. I especially was very thrilled to see the lovely cover of the February issue of the scenery of Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. This is my birthplace, and this is where I first heard the gospel from my cousin during one of my summer vacations years ago. Ethel T. Kurihara President Luzon District Relief Society Southern Far East Mission I especially appreciated Alice Bailey's poem "Curled in Seed" in the March issue of the Magazine. It was full of beauty, as was Tom Elliott's color transparency of the Matterhorn. Leona Fetzer Wintch Manti, Utah As I read the article "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" in the March issue of the Magazine, by Margaret Russell, I was reminded of the closeness of my mother and sisters and am grateful for the sisterhood we have. Since I do not live close around my mother and sisters or sisters-in-law, I have more and more appreciated the sisterhood in Relief Society, and no matter where we have lived, Relief Society has brought this sisterhood to me. Our beloved Magazine shares this sisterhood with the dear members in many lands. Ida Mae F. Dahl Boise, Idaho I hope we will have more of the speech articles by Myrtle E. Henderson (March 1964). They are what we all need. Pearl H. Saunders Ogden, Utah I surely enjoyed the speech articles in the March Relief Society Magazine. I hope such articles will be continued. Mrs. Verna Ross Salt Lake City, Utah The article on speech (by Myrtle E. Henderson) in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine is much appreciated, and I hope the subject will be continued in future issues. Mrs. Opal Saunders Vale, Oregon I have just finished reading "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" by Margaret Russell in the March issue of the Magazine. As the mother of a family of five "little sisters," whose father is also a Wyoming schoolteacher, lt was like reading a forecast of the future. The whole Magazine each month is a gem. Kathleen Gregory La Grange, Wyoming I enjoy the Magazine very much. The lessons are wonderful. Living in the mission field, I think the Magazine means much more to us. Sylvia J. Harris Red Wing, Minnesota I love and enjoy the Magazine! The messages and stories are so inspiring. Bonnie S. Hansen Munich, Germany The Relief Society Magazine has meant many enjoyable hours of reading for my husband and myself. It has been helpful in many ways. The March issue is very beautiful, with its poems and pictures of flowers. Mrs. Frank Goodwin Wheeling, West Virginia 

The Relief Society Magazine VOLUME 51, Number 6 JUNE 1964. NUMBER 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Content
Special Features 404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 406 Paul H. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy 408 You, Dear Friends Leone O. Jacobs 410 My English Textbook Martha Weyland Paulsen 422 Emily Dickinson—"Occupation—Keeps House" Laurel Ulrich 450 Annual Report for 1963 Hulda Parker General Features 402 From Near and Far 418 Editorial: The 134th Annual General Church Conference 420 In Memoriam—Gladys P. Young 421 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 460 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out Hobbies: Gretchen Stratton Makes Prize-Winning Pillows; Anna Marie Richins—Expert in Handicraft, 430; Happiness in Flower Arranging, by Maude W. Howard, 431; "Parchment" Correspondence Cards, by Peggy Tangren, 436; Relief Society Silver Service, College Park Lesson Department - Preview for 1964-65 467 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 401 The Shadowfall Shirley M. Howard Always the Moment, by Lael W. Hill, 420: Tide Turn, by Marjorie Newton, 424: Airborne Heritage, by Viola Ashton Candland, 449: Night, by Ida Elaine James, 477; Bird Song, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 478; One Year Old, by Christie Lund Coles, 479; The Secret, by Eleanor W. Schow, 479; Enchanted, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 480. 9, ee Sa a a HS 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIET Y of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 841] 1; Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 g year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew Promptly so that no copies Il be missed. Report change of address. At once, giving old and new address. Entered QS second-class matter 

February 18, 1914, to Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1964 AT this season of the year when summer is rich and beautiful upon the northern lands, and winter rests upon the southern hemisphere, the women of the Church in many lands extend birthday greetings to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay. It is with rejoicing and sincere gratitude that the world-wide sisterhood, separated by mountains and oceans, yet united in the spirit of the restored gospel, pay tribute to the lovely woman who represents for them a worthy ideal of Latter-day Saint womanhood, which, with continuing devotion, they may strive to emulate. Realizing the ever-increasing complexity of life upon the earth today, and knowing full well the many voices that call out to women for their time, their energy, and their attention, the women of the Church are especially grateful that an example of wisdom, strength, serenity, and high purpose has been given them in the life of a truly great woman who has demonstrated the most important and far-reaching accomplishments of womanhood. Sister McKay has often said that she owes much of her fundamental attitudes, as well as her habits of persona! Discipline and performance to the training and example which her mother placed before her. These attributes, a heritage from her childhood home, Sister McKay has described as courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability. Each of these qualities has been magnified by Sister McKay, and all have been given in generous measure to her family, her friends, and to the women of the Church. Courage has been consistently manifest in her life, particularly on those many and prolonged occasions when her husband has been traveling in far places, carrying abroad the gospel message. At such times the quiet courage of Sister McKay was so deeply felt by the children in the home that they have said, in later years, that it seemed, through the courage and faith and prayers of their mother, that the influence and love and protection of their father was actually present in the home. Many of the responsibilities that come to women as mothers and homemakers, and in their relationships with other women, are greatly enhanced by the buoyant quality of cheerfulness that minimizes present difficulties and sheds a glowing light upon the morning that is sure to come. Such has been the pervading light and radiance in the presence of Sister McKay. Her patience has long been admired and appreciated by her family and by all her associates — a patience that has been upheld by enduring faith and the belief that when one has chosen well a lifetime pattern, then patience and endurance are part of that pathway. Truly it may be said that the desire and ability to give love and affection are rare gifts, and most worthy of cultivation. Affection and love for those near and dear to Sister McKay and for the women of the Church and all others, have characterized the days and the years of the life of Sister McKay, exemplifying her own belief that ''life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for someone else.'' Her innate kindness seems to spring from a desire to help women to attain some of the rich blessings which have graced her own life. The making and keeping of a home have been to Sister McKay a sacred trust, and the rearing of'children a privilege and a blessing. With President McKay she has traveled to many parts of the world, always taking with her ''a message of peace and a prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their children." ) For her eighty-seventh birthday, the women of the Church extend to Sister McKay their love and appreciation and their wishes for her health and happiness. 404 Pau. Harold Dunn, a California educator, was appointed to the First Council of Seventy at the Monday morning session of the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1964, the closing day of Conference. His call fills the vacancy in the Council of Seventy occasioned by the death of Elder Levi Edgar Young, in December 1963. Elder Dunn was born in Provo, Utah, April 24, 1924, the second of three sons of Joshua Harold and Geneve Roberts Dunn. The family moved to California in 1939, where Elder Dunn continued his education. He received a B. A. Degree in religion from Chapman College in 1953, and the next year he was awarded a Master's Degree in education from the University of Southern California. He received his doctorate in educational administration from the same institution in 1959. At the time of his appointment to the Council, he was an active seventy in the Downey Third Ward of Huntington Park Stake. 406 Paul H. Dunn He became associated with the Church Education System in 1952, as a seminary teacher in the Los Angeles area, and as viceprincipal of the seminaries in that city in 1953-54. Later, he became assistant supervisor of the seminaries of Southern California and served with great success in that capacity until 1956, when he was appointed director of the University of Southern California Institute of Religion. When called to be a General Authority, Elder Dunn was coordinator of the Institutes of Religion of Southern California. In this work, he has directed the activities of nine fulltime and _ forty-one part-time institutes, with an estimated enrollment of 2,500 students. His area of supervision included the institutes from Fresno, south to the Mexican border. Through his training and experience as a counselor and friend of the youth of the Church, and by his enthusiasm, friendliness, spiritual qualities, and great energy and ability, Elder Dunn has inspired and directed thousands of young people into the ways of usefulness and high endeavor in Church and community' activities. He has been untiring in his efforts to encourage young people to remain active in the Church organizations and to increase . X %, "of?, f [as | ELDER PAUL H. DUNN AND HIS FAMILY 3 i Elder Paul H. Dunn and his wife Jeanne Cheverton Dunn, with their daughters: Kellie (front, left); Janet (standing at the left), and Marsha (at the right). Their understanding of the gospel so that their attitudes and understanding of the gospel will enable them to be effective missionaries and exemplars of the teachings and principles of Latter-day Saint ideals.. His participation in athletics, (baseball, golf, football, basketball and track), and sports during his high school and college years has enabled him to influence many young men into taking part in such programs sponsored by the Church. Elder Dunn's maternal grandtather W. D. Roberts, and the erandfather's brother E. L. Roberts, who for many years was head coach and athletic director at the Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, were well known athletes and provided Elder Dunn with his heritage of interest. Elder Dunn's father passed away in December 1960. His mother and brothers and their families are living in California. Elder Dunn married Jeanne Alice 'Cheverton, whom he converted to the Church. They were sealed in the Arizona Temple, and are the parents of three daughters: Janet Carolyn, sixteen; Marsha Jeanne, fourteen, and Kellie Colleen, four. 407 Leone O. Jacobs Former Member, General Board of Relief Society thirty be about the right time?" Immediately, a warm feeling came over me, the d brighter, and my Spirits rose perOne's friends are endowed with an amazing variety of temperaments and qualities of character, and each one adds much to life and makes of it an interesting 408 and joyous experience. There are the old friends and the new friends, the casual friends, and the close confidants,. Each fills 4 particular niche in one's life. Dear Mary seems always to be happy and full of wit. H er! To be in her presence is to have one's morale lifted Skyward. Always an optimist, burdens aplenty, though they are kept hidden from view. There js wasting precious time and effort on foolish endeavors. Dear Harriet! I am so grateful she is just the way she is. So big-hearted, so free from prejudice and criticism of others. I feel completely relaxed in her company. And so, each one holds a special place in my heart! For old friends I have great affection. I do not refer to old in point of years, but in the length of our association. These are my childhood friends, the friends with whom I attended school, whose lives are known to me and mine to them. They know my family background, my teachers, my weaknesses and strengths, our Church and community activities. I shall never lose interest in these whose lives have been so intimately interwoven with mine. It matters not how divergent our paths have been in the intervening years. "We grew up together," I announce proudly when introducing them to others. "We came from the same town."' How wonderful that as we grow older the events we shared in bygone days remain clear! Precious, vivid memories! THEN there are the new friends one makes from time to time. What a delight, what an unexpected pleasure is each one — an added gem in one's collection of blessings! To some we are immediately and mysteriously attracted, as if by a magnet. With such there need be no period of "setting acquainted." We are right away good friends. A choice experience it is to meet someone whose nature, we sense instinctively, will harmonize with our own! And what a happy prospect YOU, DEAR FRIENDS it is to realize that just any day we may meet some sweet person who will be a joy to us forever. For there is no quota on friendships. We may go on and on gathering them into our familiar circle. The casual friends also bring happiness into our lives. How pleasant to meet acquaintances on the street or at a social function, to receive a warm smile, a handshake, and a "How do you do? So nice to see you." One feels identified with his fellow beings and at one with the world. Then there are the friends one makes while serving in the Church. These are no doubt some of the choicest associations of all. How could individuals become closer than by being partners in the work of the Lord? There is so much in common; one's goals and standards are the same. One's best is expected and one's best is willingly given. The spirit of love is dominant, and a_ bond of fellowship develops that may last throughout eternity. And, lastly, there are the special few who are one's tried and true confidants, to whom one's innermost thoughts are confided, and in whom one puts his complete trust and love. These are as we imagine the Biblical friendship between David and Jonathan. Every person needs one or more such close friends. To be able to talk over one's problems with such a friend is of inestimable value, a stabilizing and sustaining influence. And so, truly grateful I am for friends — the new, the old, the tried, the true, and the ones who are to be. God bless them every one! 409 MY ENGLISH TEXTBOOK the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the light that led them and made it possible to endure all things. True, I had no wilderness to fight, no mob violence to meet. But there were other battles to be won, a new language, to meet the challenge of life away from home and parental guidance in a strange land. Soon I found myself looking forward to the evenings when I could sit and read The Relief Society Magazines. They became my friends, my counselors, my advisors. They were helpers upon whose aid and wisdom I could rely. They were good company and kept me from feeling so alone. The M agazine met so many of my needs. Some day I wanted to marry, have a family, be a good homemaker, besides learning about the gospel through the Magazine. Here were tested recipes, sewing suggestions, budget planning. Reading from this book I came upon this familiar statement: "The women of yesterday thought and thought and then spent, while the women of today spend and spend and then think." I remember the first time I made corn-bread from a recipe in the Magazine. I really felt proud and happy, when the lady I worked for said it was very good. "Did you bring this recipe from Sweden?" I had never heard of cornbread before. I was so thrilled when she asked me for a copy. I, writing English! Many times when in doubt what to have for dinner, she would ask: "Seen any good recipes in the Magazine lately?" If someone should ask me from what department of The Relief Society Magazine did I get the most help in learning a new language, I could not truthfully name one in particular. Each one filled my needs and gave me strength in so many ways. To me it has been a priceless privilege to become acquainted with the Relief Society Magazine at an early age. The Magazine helped me keep in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. When attending the sacrament meetings, when I first came to Salt Lake City, it seemed everyone talked so fast. I had a hard time to follow the speaker. Not so with my Magazine. Here I could sit down and take time learning every word till I knew its meaning. Sometimes learning a new language can have its humorous sides. I remember the time I had tried a recipe from the Magazine, "Chicken a la King." One day as I was walking to my sister's, I walked by a house with a sign in the window, which said: "Chicken Pox." Chicken 4 la King, Chicken Pox, where was the difference? Anyway, it must be good and homemade, having a sign in the window. It would be much fun to surprise my sister with something good. After the sweet lady had explained to me what chicken pox was, we both had a good laugh. The Relief Society Magazine has introduced me to so many friends, many of them gone long ago. Their influence has been felt in my life. I never read the Magazine without feeling the love and sweet influence of the sisters who edit the Magazine. They have given me a well-balanced understanding of the important things in life. It has contributed to my spiritual growth. Within me has been born a desire to be a better mother, wife, and homemaker. I still fall short of my goal, but I hope I will continue to learn and improve with the help of my Heavenly Father. I like to bear my testimony to you of the truth of the gospel. I want to express the joy that I have in the privilege of living in this wonderful land. I know that God lives, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, and there is not a doubt in my mind, but that David O. McKay is a true prophet of God. I am so grateful to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has showered upon me and mine. They are too numerous to mention and too wonderful to understand. I pray our Heavenly Father to strengthen us in all we attempt to do that is right and proper. May we take from the simple things at hand and build our happiness. May we glorify his name by living lives worthy of his blessings. I pray that I may always walk in humility and obedience before him. This I do humbly and in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. All THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY and a pink ribbon sash. I wore matching bows of ribbon on each of my two long braids. The three of us wore heavy ribbed long black cotton stockings, and black laced shoes. Papa, a bit restless in church, kept pulling at his collar and crossing and uncrossing his legs, much to the annoyance of Mama. When closing prayer was said, he wasted no time ushering us out to our waiting Lizzie. Mama barely had time for a few handshakes and words of greeting. Lizzie needed no coaxing today, just one twist on the crank handle and she purred like a kitten. Papa slid over the side and under the steering wheel. He adjusted the spark, took off the brake, pulled down the gas, and we were off at a moderate rate of speed, about fifteen miles per hour, waving goodbye to our friends. It always pleased Papa as he left our friends behind in their carriages and horses, staring after us. Down Main Street we went without making the usual turn for home. "Where are we going?" inquired Mama, as we passed by our street. "Oh, I thought you might like a little ride," said Papa. "We should have gone home first and changed our clothes," remarked Mama, not wanting to get dusty, and worrying about the breeze ruining her plumes. "We won't be long," said Papa, slowing down a little. It was such a lovely drive down past the depot, across the river bridge, and along the side of the hill. A short distance to the left, the dangerous river wound its way through pasture lands, and chattering magpies flew in and out the willows and bullberry bushes. On and on we went, thoroughly enjoying the scenery. Papa was always happy when escorting Lizzie around. Now and then a little breeze swayed the feathers on Mama's hat, and the sun played hide-and-go-seek through the lacy brim. I loved to watch the shadows dance about on her lovely face. The road was becoming more rough, and she held a little tighter to her hat to keep it from bobbing up and down. "Those look like sheep tracks along the hill, don't they?' inquired Mama. 'They sure do," replied Papa, "and not more than a day or two old." "T think we had better turn back, Ed. It's getting quite dusty," said Mama apprehensively. But Papa was busy scanning the hillside. Then, quite unexpectedly, Peter cried, ""Look out, Papa, some sheeps!"' Papa slammed on his brake just in time to avoid hitting an old ewe and two baby lambs coming onto the road. The sudden force threw Mama against the windshield, brushing her forehead and bending her hat. Her hat pins pulled loose and with them came strands of long black hair. Papa's derby flew off his head and rolled 413 il], luckily Catching in a bush before reachj he river The frightened Sheep took off up the hil] aS Pana ent o Lizzie'. Side, to chase after his hat. He came back, brushing ff dir and try ng to push out the ents. Mama On the point f tea "Just look My new hat!" © cried, More conc Tned about i than the bruise her Orehead, "7 ©W We should have 0ne home irst,"' Silently, Papa adjusted his hat e€gs bac » Cranked up Lizzie, threw his k over the side and Started down the road, trying to keep out of the deep Wagon-whee] ruts, "Must have been Some stra ™M the Sheepherd. Sometimes 4n old ewe Will hide under brush to lamb, and if the erders don't notice her, She's left behind," Sa a, But around an d let's at. B lying under a gs out, except Mama, to loo K at the litt] ° move, but Just looked Sa a eh it home With ys?" P I begged lease, Papa." Y you don't 1 Your mother " In her Opinion there ur nice Clean Lizzi la smelly Sheep, But wi Sympathy for the l€ Was definitely Ith three children feeling SO much little lamb, 5 © gave her Consent. "Where Will you keep jt" She asked mmediately € assured her we Would build jt a little en. "Don't feel ba f it doesn't live," Cautioned Papa. "Tt's pretty weak, and we might have trouble feeding tae 414 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY Gently he picked up the lamb and laid it on the floor in the back of the car. WE were about to start back when we heard a baa, baa, coming from a clump of bushes near a fence. It sounded like a cry for help. Papa, who was in the process of cranking Lizzie, looked toward Mama, then took off down the slope to investigate. "Stay in the car, children, I don't want you to get your clothes dirty," ordered Mama. "Addie!" called Papa, "bring me that white rag under the front seat, this sheep has a broken leg." Reluctantly Mama stood up from the seat, so I could pull out the rag. The sheep was caught in the fence, and in its struggle to get free had somehow broken its leg. Only too happy to be of help, I started on the run down the hill, and as is so often the case on a hillside, I tripped on a stump of sagebrush, which caused my downfall. I arose with the knees out of my stockings, and skin off my knees. "Why don't you watch where you're going?" was Papa's remark of sympathy as I limped up to him with tears running down my cheeks, and handed him the rag. "Now hand me that stick," he said, pointing to one just out of his reach. "Now grab hold of his hind legs while I put on a splint!" Even though the animal was lying flat on its side with Papa astride it, I had all I could do to hang onto those kicking legs. With this act of mercy accomplished, Papa suggested we get back to Lizzie. I lifted up my blood-stained petticoats from my bleeding knees, and followed behind. "Addie, what makes you so clumsy? Just look at yourself. All we need is another stray sheep and the day will be completely ruined," groaned Mama. I took my place on the back seat, being careful not to step on the little lamb. My knees hurt, but I fought back the tears and said nothing. Unfastening my garters, I rolled down the kneeless stockings to ease the pain. No one cared how much I was suffering. "Are you going to leave the poor sheep, Papa?" James asked. "The coyotes will get it, Papa. Don't leave it for the coyotes to get," whimpered Peter. "We have all the sheep we are going to have!" said Mama. '"He'll be good, Mama." Another baa, baa, from the sheep, and James begged, "He wants to go with us, listen! I don't want to leave him for the coyotes." Little Peter began to cry. "Stand up a little, will you, Bess? Let me get that piece of rope from under the seat," said Papa to Mama. "Surely you don't intend to put another sheep in with us?" she asked, rising obediently. With rope in hand he headed for the helpless animal. It had occurred to him that, come winter, it would make good mutton. Why leave it for the coyotes when we could enjoy eating it? 415 JUNE 1964 The task of tying the back legs together, and carrying it to the Model T was laborious, but he managed. "Open the car door, James, and we'll put it beside the other one," he said. The little hungry lamb instinctively tried to find some much-needed nourishment from the new companion, but it wasn't the right kind of sheep. "Don't cry little sheeps,"' said Peter sympathetically, patting it on the head. "Sheep," corrected Mama. "I don't want to hear you say 'sheeps' again, Peter!"' | WE started for home. Papa and Mama were very quiet. James and Peter lay on their stomachs on the seat watching the sheep, and trying to calm them. At the top of the hill we noticed the old ewe and her twin lambs, feeding contentedly by the side of the road. Papa slowed down wondering what to do, and a little fearful of Mama's wrath. He thought of all the good winter meat we could have just for the taking, and decided to stop. "You couldn't possibly be thinking of taking more sheep?" Mama asked. "Bess, listen to reason, will you? Those sheep will give us all the mutton we need this winter,"' Papa tried to explain. "What would you suggest we do, get out and walk while you load up with sheep?" she retorted. Papa was trying to figure out how he could load all those sheep. He had no intention of leaving them behind. The one with the broken leg would cause less trouble up front beside Mama, he decided. The old ewe and the little ones would settle down beside her. The real trouble began when Papa started to put the crippled sheep in the front. "Lift up your skirts, Bess, and I'll set this cripple one in front," he said. "You'll do no such thing, I'll walk first!" threatened Mama, and out of the Ford she got, tight shoes and all. Papa looked down at her feet and decided to take a chance. He took off his stiff collar and derby hat, and laid them on the front seat, and started for the sheep. "Put a couple of rocks behind the back wheels, James, so she won't roll down hill. Addie, you take off your stockings, they're torn anyway, and you and Peter stand over there by the hill and don't let the sheep go past you." Holding my skirts away from my stinging knees, I did as he bade. We were never permitted to talk back to Papa. It was hard work trying to corner a sheep with two lambs, but we did. Papa grabbed the old ewe's two back legs so she couldn't kick, and tied them together with my black stockings. It took some doing to get those frightened sheep in Lizzie, and by the time we were through, our shoes were skinned, and our clothes torn and soiled. The little orphan lamb again searched for nourishment from the old mother, but the two stronger ones pushed it away. This 416 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY 'You had better 80 on in the house with Mama and take care of those knees," said Papa, as he helped me over the side of the car. THE old €we, anxious to put her feet on solid ground, almost kicked off my stockings before Papa could get her tied to a tree, where she stayed until a pen was built. There was no fear of the lambs straying down its throat. Peter Spent hours coaxing his new pet to drink, Opportunity. They romped and Played until completely exhausted, then would drop down on the grass to rest and sometimes have a Said it was all imagination. 417 VOLUME 51 JUNE 1964 NUMBER. & ° IN the beautiful springtime of the year, in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1964, the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church was held and commemorated the organization of the Church on the 6th of April 1830. The rapid growth of the Church was revealed by the announcement of a membership of 2,117,451 as of December 31, 1963, with the number of full-time missionaries listed as 11,653. The unity and strength, as well as the continuity of inspired leadership, were demonstrated by President McKay, in his ninety-first year, who presided at all the conference sessions and conducted part of them and in the appointment of Paul Harold Dunn, thirty-nine, to be the new member of the First Council of Seventy. In his opening address, President McKay appealed to the saints throughout the world to live the principles of the gospel and thereby strengthen themselves and their homes: This morning | have in mind giving a warning to all young people relating to three dangers threatening the success and happiness of youth: First — the pernicious habit of smoking cigarettes; second — the increasing number of divorces; third — the tendency to hold less sacred the moral standards. One of the most precious possessions is our families. The domestic relations precede, and, in our present existence, are worth more than all other social ties. They give the first throb of the heart and unseal the deep foundations of its love. Home is the chief school of human virtues. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows, smiles, tears, hopes, solicitudes form the chief interests of human life. President Hugh B. Brown delivered an address in which he affirmed the meaning of the gospel of Jesus Christ in a world in which so many are frustrated in their search for truth. 418 wnual Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring EIna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Célestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles General Conference Unlike those whose religious faith is uneasy and precarious in the modern world of expanding scientific knowledge, we are at home with the most advanced truths discovered by scientists and with all competent philosophic thought — with truth wherever found — because our religion enjoins in us a love of knowledge and education; encourages us to seek understanding through broadening our vision and deepening our insight. This is an eternal quest. In a description of God's dealings with men through his prophets, President Nathan Eldon Tanner declared: While the prophets in the old land were receiving revelations from God, the people of Lehi on this, the American Continent, were not left without guidance. Prophets were raised up through whom God spoke and directed his people in all their doings as they would listen. He revealed to them, also, 600 years before Christ's coming, that he would come, that he was the Savior of the world, that he would be persecuted and crucified, and that he would be resurrected. One of the most blessed and heartfelt events of the conference was the farewell message of President McKay, delivered with love and solicitude: It is a great thing to be a father of boys and girls. | think it is a precious thing for our boys and girls to realize their responsibility to carry their father's name in love and honor.... We have had a wonderful conference.... Let us take with us appreciation of being a father, appreciation of being a mother. And boys and girls, go with the responsibility that you have to bring comfort and gladness and thankfulness to the hearts of your fathers and mothers. 419 In Memoriam— Gladys Pratt Young March 24, 1895 - April 3, 1964 Gapys Pratt Young, wife of S. Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 3, 1964. Of illustrious pioneer heritage, through the line of Parley P. Pratt, she was born in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico, the youngest daughter of Helaman and Victoria Billingsley Pratt. Both her father and her brother, Rey Lucero Pratt, served as presidents of the Mexican Mission, and the members of the Pratt family are greatly loved and respected throughout the Church. Gladys spent her early years in the Mexican Colonies and lived with her brother Rey L. Pratt in Mexico City after the death of her parents. She was married to S. Dilworth Young, May 31, 1923, in the Salt Lake Temple. A talented woman, skilled in the creative arts, Sister Young wrote and directed many dramas and pageants for the Church and for the communities in which she lived, generously sharing her gifts, her time, and her energy. Skilled in many household handicrafts, she excelled in such accomplishments as designing costumes, painting trays, rug making, and quilting, and she taught these skills to many women in the missions and at home. She served as president of the New England Mission Relief Society from 1947 to 1951 during the time that her husband presided over that mission. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Young and to the other family members. May the beautiful life and the lovely ways of Gladys Pratt Young be a blessed memory to them. Always the Moment Lael W. Hill Shall we look back and say to each other, Remember, remember— That was the first day we looked on each other's faces The instant of just before hearing each other's laughter The merest beginning of almost-touching our fingers? Shall we look back together sometime, in a frantic recalling Trying to capture the color of eyes that were lighted, Listening long for the music that once was our voices, Reaching the hands of remembering—vainly, vainly? If we knew—if our longing could wake an awareness, a knowledge, The moment of then lies parallel with our tomorrow! Look forward to loving: our love will be always beginning— Nothing is lost that we live so intensely, so purely. 420 Ramona W. Cannon Among the women appointees to Government positions by President Lyndon B. Johnson are the following: Mrs. Norman Chandler, sixty-two, as a member of the Advisory Committee to the United States Information Agency; Mrs. Virginia Mae Brown, forty, to the Interstate Commerce Commission; Mrs.! Ndia Edwards, almost seventy, to be special consultant on youth employment to the Secretary of Labor; Mrs. Katherine E. White, fifty-seven, to be ambassador to Denmark; Mrs. Herbert Stats, fifty-three, as a consultant in the Office of Aging, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and coordinator of Senior Citizens Month (May); Mrs. Mary Keyserling as director of the Women's Bureau, Labor Department. THE BEGUM (Princess) C. AHMED of Pakistan served as a delegate at the installation of President Leoni of Venezuela. The Begum was the first woman from Pakistan to be a delegate to the United Nations. Her countrywomen now vote, and Pakistan has _ sixteen women in Parliament, and a woman ambassador to Italy. It has been estimated by the Associated Press of the United States that from a total of 49,034 reporters and editors of major newspapers, 17,274 are women who are finding rewarding careers in various fields of journalism. QUEEN ELIZABETH of Great Britain, thirty-seven, gave birth to her fourth child (third son and third in line of succession) on March 10, 1964. A fortyone gun salute heralded the news across London. MARGARET BARTLETT ANDERSON is author of Robert Frost and John Bartlett, the Record of a Friendship (Holt, Reinhart and Winston, publishers) which reveals many aspects of the life and the poetry of this '"'genius with all that genius implies... Insight, energy, sensitivity." RUTH ABAT is public relations director and advertising manager for Raymond International, a heavy' construction company, with headquarters in New York City and construction contracts in many countries. Miss Abat has been a staff writer for several large newspapers and was formerly editor of the Dun and Bradstreet house publication, New York City. EILEEN FARRELL has been described by many eminent music critics as the finest dramatic soprano in the United States. ''Her voice is full-bodied and rich, the diction faultless, and her rhythm and phrasing unequaled."' She has sung in many of the world's greatest concert halls and has appeared with the most acclaimed symphony orchestras and in leading roles in operas and oratorios. 421 EMILY DICKINSON "Occupation—Keeps House"' Laurel Ulrich The quotations reprinted in this article are from the book "The Letters of Emily Dickinson," edited by Thomas H. Johnson, and are used by special permission from Harvard University Press. Main Street in Amherst, Massachusetts, leads gently past the quiet common and a short row of shops, starts its ascent near the towered red brick police station, grows steeper as it moves into a residential section, then thrusts breathlessly upward until, just surmounting a view of the hills beyond, it passes the thick maze of hemlock which screens the mansion where Emily Dickinson lived and died. Emily's home is not open to the public. The white sign on the side of the house which claims it as her home can barely be glimpsed through the branches of the hedge, which reaches well past 422 the sill of the second story windows. Retreating back down the hill, one can peer through the driveway opening and see something of the house—solid, conservative red brick cupola crowded. To the left of the driveway is the clay-colored picket fence of "The Evergreens," the house Edward Dickinson built for Emily's brother Austin and his_ bride. Towering over the pickets is another hemlock hedge and, piercing it, a row of pinions standing like flagstaffs before an embassy. The house itself is a clay-colored frame version of Edward's own. It would be hard to imagine either of these houses open to tourists. There is a mystery in their aloofness which invites speculation on the lives within. It is easy to imagine a slender woman in white darting into a doorway to avoid being seen, to picture a "New England Nun" tending her flowers and her broken heart behind the tall hedge. Like the citizens of Amherst in Emily's day, seeing the hedge, hearing the half-whispered rumors, we began to believe the legend of 'Miss Emily." If we were to step through the hedge, wouldn't we see her there now, sitting in her garden dreamily writing in a small notebook, her face as pale as her dress, thinking of the legendary lover she had been forced to renounce in her youth? Unfortunately for the legend, if we had been able to penetrate the hedge in Emily's day, we would probably have seen her, with her auburn hair neatly parted in the middle, dressed in apron (a white one?), kneading bread for the family, or-doing any one of a dozen homely tasks. A household of 100 years ago required immense labor to operate. It took the efforts of Mrs. Dickinson, Lavina, an Irish maid, and Emily to keep the large Dickinson house going. There were vegetables to gather and preserve, apples to pick and make into sauce and cider. There were starched shirtfronts to iron with heavy irons heated and reheated on the woodburning stove. There were scrubbing and sweeping and dusting and polishing—all without the benefit of vacuum cleaners—and all the while carrying the weight of a many-petticoated, full-length dress. Emily hated housework, saying she "preferred pestilence." EMILY DICKINSON But she carried her share of the duties. Her province seems to have been cooking. Writinc to her friend Abiah Root, the fifteen-year-old Emily says: "I am going to learn to make bread tomorrow. So you may imagine me with my sleeves rolled up, mixing flour, milk, saleratus, etc. With a deal of grace. I advise you if you don't know how to make the staff of life to learn with dispatch." Eleyen years later she was an expert baker. At the Amherst Cattle Show in 1856 her loaf of "rye and Indian" bread won second prize— seventy-five cents. To his death Edward Dickinson was said to have refused any bread not of Emily's baking. In a letter to Mrs. Holland, in 1871, Emily says she is "pleased the Gingerbread triumphed." The recipe was Emily's: "1 Quart Flour, % Cup Butter, 4% Cup Cream, 1 Table Spoon Ginger, 1 Tea Spoon Soda, I Salt. Make up with Molasses—." It was natural that being cook she also made the fires. Writing to Austin at six A. M. She said: "T add a word to say that I've got the fires made and waked the individuals, and the Americans are conquering the British in the teakettle.... Will now proceed to get breakfast, consisting of hash and brown bread—Dessert—A. Sauce." When Forester Ainsworth took the Tenth National Census in Hampshire County, Massachusetts, in 1880, he listed Emily E. Dickinson, Occupation: "Keeps House." To all the world this was Emily Dickinson's full-time occu- 423 JUNE 1964 pation. Those around her knew she was in the habit of writing small verses and strangely literary letters to her friends, but they had no idea that at night, while the rest of the family slept, Emily Dickinson was an intense artist who wrote volumes of poems, many of them among the greatest in American letters. Modern housewives who find themselves exhausted after a day with automatic washer and electric frypan can perhaps understand one reason for Emily's retirement from village life—the need for time and energy to pursue her clandestine life's work. Part of the greatness of Emily Dickinson's poetry is in the startling precision of her metaphors. Is it surprising that many of these come from housework? When she becomes disillusioned with an idea, it falls and breaks ''At bottom of my Mind," like a plate falling off a shelf. She talks of brushing away a summer like a fly, or of winding '"'the months in balls." "sweeping up the heart" becomes part of the bustle in the house after a death. Using themes another poet might treat with "high seriousness," Emily almost playfully confronts us with homely fact, with trimming a lampwick, sifting flour, making a bed. She catches us off guard, teases us with her slant way of seeing things, and, in the end, profoundly moves us. E. Dickinson, Occupation: Poet, triumphs; but not without retaining part of Miss Emily, Occupation: Keeps House. For a fascinating treatment of the home life of Emily Dickinson, especially in the earlier years, see Millicent Todd Bingham, Emily Dickinson's Home, New York: Harper & Row, Inc., 1955. 424 Tide Turn Marjorie Newton Punchbowl, New South Wales, Australia | have come back to the sea, seeking strength. Here | will answer myself, here decide. The beach is deserted, lonely its length, And | am at one with sun, surf, and tide. My cliff top is shared with the sound-swift terns, The salt wet wind blowing steady and free, And all that is sane within me yearns For the pattern of life as it used to be. The breakers are never still; ebb and surge Are marked by the curves of froth on the shore, And change is constant: the patterns emerge Only to mingle their colors once more. | will face the wind and the turning tide, For the sea will return to the land, And ever the meaning of life will abide, Clear patterned on smooth and shining sand. Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance died at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decided to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also leave with the company for California, but when a division of the company is made, Lon and Selena are separated. Alfred Quale, also on his way to California, begins his courtship of the lovely Selena. 'THere were days at a time now when the cemetery at Winter Quarters and the happenings there seemed very far away to Selena. She was enjoying the companionship of her new friend, Alfred Quale. He was so goodnatured and cheerful that her despondency seemed to lessen with the passing of each day. VY ss i CHAPTER 5 Hazel M. Thomson Wk Too, some of Belle's enthusiasm may have rubbed off on Selena. Belle had never been happier. When they arrived at Resting Springs they did just that; they drank from the spring, filled every available water container, and rested. The feed was plentiful, and the leaders decided to give the animals a few days' rest. "T?'s an oasis," Josiah said, looking at the luxuriant growth of grass. "Plenty of feed and plenty of water. Still, it makes me a little uneasy." "For goodness sakes, Josiah, why? Can't you just take advantage of the chance to rest a few days without dreaming up something to worry about?" "T'm not dreaming, Belle," he answered. "The leaders aren't dreaming either. They feel it necessary that we wait up here, until the other company arrives. We have been traveling so slowly that Brother Rich and his group can't be more than a few days back." 425 JUNE 1964 Selena, knitting nearby, was surprised to find her heart skipping a beat. Lon! He would be in camp soon! She bent lower over her work, unwilling to betray any sign of emotion about Lon. She realized the lack of encouragement she had given him. The amazing thing was that he had remained so constant in coming to see her at every opportunity, in view of her own actions. But Selena did not yet know her own mind, so she said nothing. It was late the next day that the Rich Company caught up with the lead camp. Just as Belle had hoped and Selena expected, Lon arrived at their wagon in time to eat the evening meal with them. "Lon!" cried Josiah, slapping his tall friend on the back, as the two friends shook hands. "I was afraid we'd seen the last of you until California." "It's mighty good to be here," replied Lon, glancing at Selena. "I'm glad you came to a place with enough feed to stop and let the animals eat and rest for a few days or we never could have caught you. You've made good time."' "And you've made better than we did," said Josiah smiling, "thanks to Belle." "Now, Josiah," interrupted Belle, ''there's no need to be saying that." "Why? What do you mean, Josiah?" Lon asked. "Oh, all those rocks Belle has moved out of the road. Don't tell me you didn't see them as you went by." "That's all right, Belle,'' Lon said, moving over and shaking hands with her. "Josiah knows 426 well enough that he has the best wife on the wagon train. Hope I can be as lucky when I get me a wife." As he finished speaking, he turned and looked directly at Selena, taking her hand in his. She thrilled at his touch-— and immediately resented it, that anyone could have this effect upon her, when the man she had loved lay in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. She resented even the thought of anyone taking his place. With Alfred it was different. She enjoyed his company, his constant jesting. It gave a lift to her downcast spirits. That was all. "Selena. She dropped her eyes before the message she read in Lon's. "Selena, it's so good to see you again. I was sorry to miss seeing you that last night, but some of us were sent into the settlement on a last minute assignment. We had to go." Of course! Thought Selena. She might have expected Lon had some reason of that sort. His personal affairs would always come second to whatever he considered to be a call from authority. It wasn't, then, that he had not wanted to see her. She had wondered about it, and now that she had found out, it angered her a little. She was puzzled by her own illogical reasoning, resenting the effect of Lon's presence or his touch, yet hurt that he would consider other things more important than she was. 99 THe following morning the sun rose on a cloudless sky. By ten o'clock, the day gave promise of being the hottest of the trip to date. "I'm glad we're not traveling today, Belle," said Selena as they finished their wash at the creek the men had dug away from the spring. "I think we needed the rest as much as the cattle and horses did."" She looked away toward the clump of trees by which they had stopped their wagon. The shade looked very inviting. "T know what you're thinking, Selena," said Belle, following her gaze. "I'd enjoy lying around in the shade a bit myself on a day like this, but Josiah says there's no time to waste, that we've got to get to California and get some crops in as soon as possible." "T realize that," answered Selena, "'but at least we can rest in the shade for awhile this morning. We've finished the wash. What's left that needs doing right now?" "Hay," answered Belle, picking up the pile of wet clothes. "Hay?" "Yes. This tall grass that the cattle have been enjoying so. Josiah says we'll never find any more of it until we get across the desert. Lon was there at the wagon this morning, after you left to go to the spring. He suggested that we repack the wagon, putting the things we must have every day near the back where we can get at them, then fill every wagon with the grass. The men have scythes to cut it, but the cattle have eaten it so far back away from camp that all the women and children will help carry it to the wagons and tramp it in." Selena sighed, her hopes for a pleasant, restful day vanishing. She went alongside of Belle, doYOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING ing her share, though Belle cheerfully offered to carry it for her. Back at the wagon she climbed in and tramped it down as firmly as she could, after it reached too near the wagon cover for Belle to get in and help. There were stickers in among the grasses that clung to her dress and scratched her legs through her heavy stockings. Late in the afternoon they stopped for a bite to eat and AIlfred came by. He peered into the wagon and laughed heartily. "What is this? A haystack? You going to take it with you and set it down in your field in California? You won't need half that much to cross this little desert." He walked on, still chuckling. Selena, hot and tired and dirty, sat trying to pull the stickers and burrs from her clothing. This was like Lon, she decided bitterly. Always going to extra lengths of precaution, when half as much would probably have been enough. Hadn't they followed the trail many weeks and never been without grass yet? There was no room now for her to sleep in the wagon, so she moved her quilts out under the stars. She was completely exhausted and_ slept soundly through the oppressive heat of the night. SELENA awakened after Belle and Josiah were up, and as Belle opened the back flap on the wagon she called, "That grass really sank low in the night. We've only got half a load." "Half a load?" Selena watched Josiah come up and look into the wagon. "That grass didn't sink anywhere. Someone stole it!" She saw the look of anger on 427 JUNE 1964 Josiah's face as he walked away hurriedly. She knew that Josiah suspected Alfred. She also knew there would not be an easy way to prove it. There had certainly been others besides Alfred who had thought it unnecessary to fill their wagons so full. After rolling up her bedding, Selena propped a mirror against the spokes in the wagon wheel, removed the pins from her long, dark hair and began brushing it, enjoying the clean feel of it. Just then Josiah returned to camp, Lon beside him. "IT thought it was mighty strange yesterday that he was so all-fired unconcerned about filling his wagon," Josiah was saying. "I think you're wrong, Lon, this time. Seems to me we should let him know we're on to the trick." "You can't prove it, Josiah," said Lon. ''Best thing to do is just let me take this fork and help you fill it up again. There's still some cut that wasn't carried in last night." Selena looked at Lon, startled. He stood there, strong and handsome, head bared, exactly as she had seen him a long time ago, and he held the fork as he had the shovel, throwing great thuds of earth into an open grave at Winter Quarters. INow began the most dreadful part of the journey, as the Lyman group moved ahead. This was the stretch from Resting Springs to the Mojave River, leaving the other party to take advantage of the feed and water they were leaving. "We'll reach Salt Springs first," said Josiah, as the wagon train 428 moved slowly along under the blistering sun. "Captain Hunt says we'll appreciate the water in our own barrels then, warm and brackish or not." And now, surprisingly to many, the road began to make a steady climb in the desert country, adding to the burden of both people and animals in the devastating heat. Selena began to feel the stickiness of her clothes. For several days there could be no water used for washing purposes. Every drop must be carefully hoarded to preserve the life of beast and man alike. The sandy floor of the desert was hot to the touch as they spread out bed covers at night, yet often, before morning came, the cold desert night caused the travelers to welcome a covering. Upon arising, there was no water to be used for washing faces. Selena felt the sand, which arose in a cloud from the movement of so many horses and cattle heavy in her hair under her sunbonnet. A cheer went up when, at last, the straggly growth of trees marking Salt Springs came into view. "You will find the water all right to do some washing," said Brother Lyman, riding back along the line. "But drinking it will only add to your thirst. Too much will make you sick, and if the animals are allowed to get to it, they will drink too much and we are certain to lose some of them." JosAH, Belle, and Selena walked together to the spring. It ran clear and looked deceivingly clean and cool. "It looks all right, to me," Belle said, dipping her hand into the water. "I wonder if they're sure this is the spring that tastes so awful." Josiah looked at his wife. "Belle, both Brother Lyman and Captain Hunt passed through here not so long ago. I think you can take their word about the water." "But it looks so good," said Belle, dropping to the ground. "T'll just take a little taste.'' She cupped her hands and lifted them full to her mouth. Josiah looked at Selena, shaking his head. "Phew!" Belle exclaimed. "I think I'm poisoned!"' "You heard what Brother Lyman said," Josiah reminded her, "that it was possible to do just that. Only he expected the people to have enough sense not to drink the foul-tasting stuff. It was only the animals that he felt must be kept away from it." "Salt Springs!" Belle spoke disgustedly. "I thought all along I could stand the taste of a little salt, rather than that hot stuff in the barrels, but this is just terrible. If Bitter Springs tastes any worse than this, I'd like to taste it!" "And you probably will," her husband agreed. "We can wash, anyway," Selena said, as she lifted the water to her face. It stung her sunburned cheeks, but still she welcomed having her face feel clean once more. When there was time she would wash her hair. Right now there were other things to be washed. "Come on, Selena," said her sister. ""Let's get our clothes that need it the worst and get busy before the spring gets too crowded." YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING THE stop there was only for the night, and on the morning they began making their weary way on toward Bitter Springs. The sparse growth of salt grass that they found now offered no hopes of replenishing their fast-diminishing hay supply. There was no riding in the wagons now. The sandy floor of the desert was left behind and the road lay continually uphill, the rocky terrain making walking difficult. Selena found herself thinking that this part of the journey was something of a triumph; that nothing she would ever experience in the future in the way of physical discomfort would probably equal this. Her tongue began to feel swollen and thick and her parched lips broke into blisters. For two days she had not seen Alfred and was glad that she did not have to smile at his jests. Talking began to take too much effort in the blazing sun and it was a quiet, solemn group who toiled on in the intense heat. That night was a dry camp, for the entire water supply was exhausted. Then, when the news was sent back that the Mojave River was within the day's journey, cheers were given and steps quickened, glad that stops such as the one at Bitter Springs had been brief. Belle saw Quale that night returning toward their wagon with Selena. Belle watched her sister smiling up into the man's lowered face. Impatiently, Belle wished for the remainder of the trip to be done with so that Lon could be around permanently. Events were moving swiftly toward some kind of crisis. Belle wondered what it would be. (To be continued) 429 Gretchen Stratton Makes P e-Winning Pillows Gretchen Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah, makes lovely decorative pillows for her friends and relatives. In 1963, her beautiful pillows, in designs of harmonious colors and exquisite stitchery, won first place at the Washington County Fair. This award was all the more notable because this dear sister has been blind for fourteen years. She has been a counselor in her ward Relief Society, and each year she gives The Relief Society Magazine to her daughters and daughters-in-law for their birthdays. Sister Stratton is mother to eight, grandmother to twenty-eight, and great-grandmother to twenty-four. TIRE SOOO a 3., 4 >i 2 bag dy a: - ' ', on oi — We %. Re ' er. # ~* a ie ' > ed _ Y * at —_—" P: 7 " on. 4 7,; «, * "ty * - 7. > eng? Ts 2 OF 4 4 4 2 * Be;. 'ge 4. 8 4 e.0 38 aa, A, s j " zy ' aed e, % lS ' eo Re 2 * <e Bens vig + ough" — Rhee Sl ees Anna Marie Richins — Expert in Handicraft Anna Marie Richins, Las Vegas, Nevada, is an expert in many types of handicraft. Her braided rugs, fancy pillows, crocheted tablecloths, afghans, and doilies beautify the homes of many of her friends and relatives. She is also an expert at dressmaking and other kinds of machine sewing, making a creative art of ordinary household opportunities. Widowed when her twelve children were young, Mrs. Richins practiced the ways of industry and thrift. Six of her children are living, and she has nineteen grandchildren and twentytwo great-grandchildren. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for more than twenty-five years. 430 Maude W. Howard Desicninc beautiful flower arrangements is an art that is fascinating and rewarding. Our homes can be made attractive with flowers. They do add warmth and friendliness to our homes. Our homes can speak our personality when we make use of our own little touches. Flowers can enhance all of our cherished objects. As in any art, proper equipment is necessary, and the right tools make a difference. The essentials are few and inexpensive, but most important for successful flower arranging. A few of the basic needs or aids to flower arranging are: a knife, flower shears, a frog or a needle holder, oasis, wire, chicken wire, and basic containers. A good knife is a prime requisite. All flower stems should be cut. Aftera flower stem has been out of water any length of time and exposed to the air, it should be recut allowing water and oxygen to travel up the stem to the blossom. Flower shears are not recommended for cutting flower stems, because they tend to pinch the stems and cut off circulation to the water channels leading to the bloom. However, scissors are needed for many other steps and requirements in this. Work. Frogs or needle holders in various sizes are necessary for arranging in low, shallow containers, always remembering the frogs should be attached to the container with florists' clay before any moisture is added to the bowl. These frogs tend to hold stems upright and in place. Oasis, a new commercial product similar to a sponge, can be soaked in water over night, and when covered with foil, serves as a container in itself. However, I prefer to use oasis as a filler in another container so water may be added to the oasis daily. Floral wire is most useful to reinforce the flower stems and it also helps to hold the flower stem straight. If one wishes to attain a line arrangement with a flower, wire adds to the possible bending of the stem without breaking. Chicken wire is most successful when crushed to fit any shape of container. It is especially good in tall cylinder vases and urns because flowers are held in place. The stems can be inserted through mesh openings which hold stems in place and support them. Anything which holds water is a usable container for flowers, whether it be a compote, urn, shallow bowl, rectangular tray, jar, goblet, cylinder, or pillow type vase. Most generally we follow the line of the vase with our flower arrangement, curving with a curved or flare vase. More often, with an upright cylinder type vase, we make an upright straight arrangement which bespeaks modern or oriental art. We use few flowers, but place them carefully in a heaven, man, and earth fashion. This is three elevations filled in between with greens. If you are arranging flowers sent from a florist, remember to recut stems on the diagonal so when the stem is resting on the bottom of the vessel, circulation is not cut off and water can travel up the stem to the blossom. A stubby stem touches the bottom of the container so no action can take place. Remember at all times that flowers breathe in water through the stems, and a dry stem will not take in water even though the stem is submerged in water. This is most important to the lasting qualities of all types of flowers. 431 Before arranging flowers, always remember to remove all foliage below the water line. Always use a flower preservative such as one of the many commercial preparations for this purpose. Replace water as it evaporates from the container. Lukewarm water seems to make the stem more porous and allows quick water reaction up to the bloom. As an architect builds a home — makes plans and knows what he is going to do — we should proceed with flower arranging in much the same manner. We must know where the arrangement is to be placed in the home, whether it is to be on a radio, which wouldn't require flowers all around, or whether the arrangement would be placed on a low table or dining-room table, where it would need to be effective on all sides. We should take into consideration the surrounding colors and the decor of the home. So we must visualize what we want our finished product to look like and make a definite plan or use a picture from a magazine that we like and copy this if it fits our needs. Now we are ready to start our flower arranging. We have our necessary tools, together with a desired container and the plan which we wish to follow. I always start the arrangement in the center with three or five flowers of different elevations and work out the desired length needed. Keep in mind that flowers should always be once and a half times the height of the container and the same in length. We should always use small buds or flowers at the highest point, and as we come down we use the larger and more open flowers. We follow this same rule in color, using our more pastel color high and the stronger colors at the core of the arrangement. This gives a good balance without a top-heavy feeling. We work our flowers in a low and outgoing direction, thus giving them a three-dimensional look, which always creates more interest. When you receive a dozen roses from your florist, arrange them in a suitable vase, one which will be tall enough to hold enough water, remembering to recut the stems each day and add water enough to replace that which has evaporated. After the roses have bloomed out, stems can be shortened and utilized by arranging them in lower containers to prolong the life of the roses. We should always remember flowers that do not like drafts and artificial heat, should be placed in the coolest spot in the room. Whether we are going to enjoy our cut flowers depends somewhat on the tender care we give them. If our flowers wilt quickly and we have followed all instructions available, may I suggest you cut the stems and roll the top part of flowers in several pieces of wet newspaper. Leave the lower part of the stems exposed so that they can be put in a deep vessel of water and placed in a cool place. An over-night soaking of the blossoms in newspaper is preferred. In the morning they will be revived and will bloom out beautifully. The pleasure of working with flowers increases when we learn to manipulate them to achieve a wider range of design. The time to experiment with flowers ls when we have them in our gardens in profusion. Then we can work with them and become acquainted with the feel of flowers and know the capacity of the stems and blossoms, and the number of flowers needed for a specific arrangement. Women who enjoy flower arranging and are called upon to furnish arrangements for clubs, schools, or church functions should acquire interesting vases to accommodate different types and shapes of flowers and shrubs. It is so much easier to make an unusual arrangement in an unusual container. We are living in an era where we are more daring. When we create, we should try to create an arrangement which will act as a focal point or a conversation piece. They can be, if we take into consideration the decor and surroundings, and make our flower arrangements look like they belong and are a vital part of the room. Those of you who love to garden remember it is so essential to plant the right color and type of flowers in your garden so they can be used on the inside of your home—arranging the inside color of our homes to the outside and bringing the outside in so we do attain a more pleasing finished arrangement. 432 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL White pompoms, white stock, and blue forget-me-nots make a special arrangement for the bride-to-be. A wedding bell centerpiece with streamers of ribbons cascades to candelabra and stately candles. A fluffy nosegay encircled with bridal illusion attached to the wedding bell and candelabra carries out the wedding theme. Silver elegance, a dramatic arrangement in a silver ice bucket can complement any dinner party or buffet table. Combined with lovely silver candelabra, it fends a note of elegance and formality. Caution is given to keep the arrangement compact. This design is made from stately pink gladioli and pink and white carnations. | White and yellow pompom chrysanthemums, with a touch of forsythia and white stock, make an appealing ''off-center arrangement,' using a tall cherub compote with satin streamers cascading to a low nosegay arrangement of the same flowers. This arrangement is good when candles need to be eliminated. Portrait pink carnations are used in this new mound look. It creates excitement when used with branches of spring blossoms. Let your imagination work and add a touch of the awakening of spring by adding butterflies or birds. TRANSPARENCY BY H ARMSTRONG ROBERTS Peach Blossoms Eva Willes Wangsgaard What does earth offer lovelier than these Peach orchards redolent with coral bloom? Rich pinkness, feathery light, alive with bees And crimson promises in every plume. So sweet these petal clouds against the blue The robins must translate them into trills; And darting bluebird wings come flashing through The mists of pink and white which hide the hills. Smooth russet trunks which anchor them to earth Are surging with the miracle of fruit And seed insistent on a stony berth, For centuries repatterned in the root. Oh, treasure them! Too soon this petal foam Will answer earth and float back toward the loam. 435 TRANSPARENCIES BY L PAUL ROBERTS Peggy Tangren Gathering and Pressing Tue first pleasure in making these exquisite cards comes from gathering the foliage that grows in our gardens, on foothills, in canyons, and along roadsides. Always carry old magazines with you so you can place the plants between the pages before they wilt. As you do this, discard all thick stems and dry or disfigured leaves. Throw away bulky parts of flowers; as an example, press only the petals of sunflowers. Small flowers make the best designs. Be sure you have plenty of long, wide-blade grass, and grasses that have gone to seed. These can be used the way a florist uses fern to fill out a bouquet. Materials Needed Cut a side from a corrugated carton about 10" x 12". This is called the mat. You will need: four thumbtacks, Scotch tape, a roll of double wax paper, white or tinted facial cleansing tissues of good quality, a strong white glue, new pastry brush, envelopes, and white writing paper. If desired an extra pastry brush and paraffin may be used (see Tips at end of article). Diamond dust glitter is optional and can be purchased at craft stores. 436 Procedure Assuming your envelopes measure 4" x 6" (this is an ideal size), fold a sheet of white paper down the middle and cut this double sheet to size 334" x 534", or 4," smaller than the envelope. Open this sheet and make a heavy pencil line along the fold. This is your size sheet. Place it in the center of the mat and tape the four corners down. Cut a single sheet of paper to 334" x 534". This is your pattern sheet. On this pattern sheet place your leaves and flowers, breaking off a stem, adding a bit of grass, until you have created a design that pleases you. Lay this carefully beside your size sheet. Tear off a piece of wax paper the size of the mat, lay it over the size sheet, and thumbtack to the four corners of the mat. Dip the pastry brush in a mixture of half glue and half water and brush on the wax paper covering the size sheet and one inch over all around. The glue will draw and puddle on the wax paper, so let it. Carefully lift the vegetation off the pattern sheet and place it in an identical design on the right half of waxed paper covering the size sheet. Separate a two-ply tissue and place one tissue over the glued section. Very gently stretch the tissue to pull out creases and wrinkles. Dip the pastry brush in the glue mixture, hold in a vertical position, and, with dabbing motion, wet and pat down all the tissue. Leave no dry spot, but do not soak. Sprinkle glitter, if desired, over the design very sparingly. Lift waxed paper off the mat and place on a flat, clean surface to dry. When completely dry, place between two pieces of heavy brown paper obtained by cutting open grocery bags. Press with an iron just hot enough to sizzle. Turn and press again until the parchment card lies smooth and flat. Place again over size sheet, and, with pencil, mark the four corners. Place a long, straight-edged knife or metal-edged ruler from corner to corner, press firmly with one hand, and with the other tear by pulling toward you. Repeat process for each side. Fold, insert note paper, and your personalized "parchment" correspondence card is finished. Tips The wrinkles in the wet tissue add to the parchment effect when dry. To prevent colors in flowers from running, use a barely damp brush and apply glue to flower last, then quickly pat up all the moisture possible with a piece of tissue. If necessary, to make the flowers stand out clearly, touch with paraffin wax while pressing. 438 TRANSPARENCY BY ROBERT PEASE Relief Society Silver Service COLLEGE PARK WARD, WASHINGTON STAKE This lovely silver service, which includes two punch bowls and trays of various sizes, was purchased with money earned through the sale of glass pictures (see "Painting With Glass,"' The Relief Society Magazine, March 1964, page 198, Article by Florian H. Thayne, transparencies by Robert Pease). The interesting and original hobby developed by Mrs. Betty Beesley Huber, ward work meeting leader, and her daughter Sharon Huber Carter, under sponsorship and direction of the ward and stake Relief Society, provided the funds for the purchase of the silver service, through the sale of glass pictures. The service is proudly displayed and used for Relief Society functions and for other stake and ward activities in Washington Stake, always reminding the sisters of the rewarding joy of creative activities when their individual talents are shared and become a part of the group accomplishments. 439 Pian for Your Bazaar in the Summertime Arrangements from the Work Meeting Display at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1963. One of the loveliest decorations uses an old-fashioned scale trimmed with artificial flowers or fruit and miniature lights. The one in the picture is made with an eight-inch circle of 3/8 unit plywood as a base, a dowel for the trunk, a smaller dowel for the crosspiece (set in at an angle). The trays are 1/4 in. Plywood circles with a styrofoam ball cut in half and glued to the plywood as a basis for the flowers or fruit. The scale is sprayed gold and the dowels are wrapped in gold ribbon. A gold cord is wound loosely around the upright dowels and formed into a loop at the top. The tiny lights are placed across the top dowel first and then into the trays and base. The scale is very effective decorated with red velvet roses or with red cherries or other small artificial fruits. Made by Zola McGhie TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL This is a very attractive three-dimensional wall plaque made with a plastic background. The grape clusters are made of marbles of three different colors. This booth was in the form of the outside of a store, looking inside. The backs of children's figures of cardboard were effective as if they were looking in the store window. Doils and dolls' clothes are excellent bazaar booth features. This picture shows a display of various kinds of the most popular dolls all beautifully dressed. The manner in which they are displayed promotes sales. The clothes may be purchased without the dolls. Made by Leah Vanjonora Made by South Davis Stake From South Cottonwood Stake Display This telephone book cover is made of medium felt to fit your local city directory with a three-inch turn-in on front and back. The edges are pinked and the cover is lined with _ Clear stiff plastic to make it more serviceable. The flower pot and stem are stitched by sewing machine about 1/8 inch from the edge. A circle of 5 inches in diameter is drawn 2 inches above the flower pot to form a nosegay. Some of the flowers and leaves are attached by sewing machine and some by French knots of wool yarn, worked from the outside to the center. Use your imagination in cutting the leaves and forming the flowers, which are all cut from felt, in color combinations of your choice. Made by Virginia Stake Olive W. Burt AALL over the country, artistically inclined people are turning back to the arts and crafts of our grandparents. They recognize in the pieced quilts, the braided rugs, the hand-carved wooden implements an aesthetic quality not found in machine-made articles. And when the exigencies of modern living and modern decor make it inadvisable to follow exactly the old tradition, clever fingers adapt the pioneer crafts to up-to-date uses. Such an adaptation is the "crazypatch" evening skirt, made exactly as our pioneer ancestors made crazypatch coverlets. For this skirt, a twoyard length of white muslin is used for the foundation. If the width of the muslin is not enough to provide an ankle-length skirt, a strip of the necessary width should be machine-sewed onto one long side of the muslin. That is, the muslin should be two yards long and wide enough to reach from the waist to the ankle of the one who is going to wear the skirt. Assemble a variety of silk and velvet scraps. Trim a few of these into various shapes and pin them along an end of the muslin. 'Match the outside edges as much as possible to avoid waste. Turn under the edge of one piece and blindstitch it down, overlapping the raw edge of the next piece. Continue in this fashion, trimming pieces to match where necessary, and blind-stitching a turned under edge over a raw edge each time. By working from one end toward the other, the material is more easily handled. When the entire piece of muslin has been covered with crazy patches in this way, all seams are covered with a cross-stitch or feather-stitch, or herringbonestitch (or a combination of stitches) done in black thread. All that remains is to face the bottom edge with a narrow bias facing, seam up the two ends into one side seam, leaving a six-inch opening for a placket. Into this a zipper may be inserted if desired. Gather the top edge to the length required for the waistband; sew on the band and fasteners and the skirt is ready to be admired. Interest is added if some of the scraps are "donated" by friends, especially if the pieces have special interest — a bit of a chum's wedding dress; a scrap from Mother's familiar housecoat; Father's favorite necktie, all give added romance to such a skirt — which may well turn out to be a family heirloom. MODEL ELLIE PENDLETON TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL 442 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL 2 in Water Virginia Stake Relief Society Cut from good quality heavy felt the following oval-shaped pieces: From green felt, cut two pieces 7 inches in length and 6 inches across (in cutting, the fold would be 7 inches long). From white felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 6 inches long and 5 inches across. From bright pink-colored felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 5 inches long and 4 inches across. From black felt, cut six pieces the size and shape of watermelon seeds. Lay the white piece on top of one of the green pieces and stitch along the edge with white thread. Then lay the pink piece on the white piece and stitch along the edge with pink thread. Place a layer of air foam between the two green ovals, sew the two green ovals together along the edge with matching thread. Fold down the center and press. Attach the seeds to the pink with good quality glue, three seeds on each side of the center fold. Attach a white plastic curtain ring to one end of the green felt. These favors will stand up and add much attractiveness to the watermelon table, and the guests will be delighted with their favors, which can be used later in the kitchen as colorful pot holders. One of the most interesting ideas to help you beautify your home is the covering of styrofoam balls with self-adhesive satin ribbon. There are several reasons why homemade satin balls are valued: They are more economical; the balls do not snag and become "ragged" looking; and you can have a wide range of color and size depending on your own taste. Materials You are probably familiar with styrofoam, but do you know you can carve it with a serrated knife and make about any shape you wish? You can also use another piece of styrofoam to sand it with until it is smooth, or you may use regular sanding paper. This is the way you can make a pear shape (out of an egg shape) or a banana (out of a pole). As for that ribbon you use, it must be the type which sticks to itself when wet and strips easily. There are several brands available. For some of the fruit, you may wish to use chenille-covered stems or wire wrapped with green florist's tape, and artificial foliage. For tinting apricots or other fruit, a small amount of "blush" from water color paints may be used. (Continued on page 449) 444 Ribbon-Covered Fruit and Ornaments RaNae Gledhill Ciothing for the Very Young Helen Lach ®*®an ey TRANSPARENICES BY HAL RUMI FASHIONS FOR LITTLE GIRLS Left to right: Tracy Anderson, daughter of Bishop and Mrs. John A. Anderson, wearing a cute two-piece suit. The corduroy top has an appliqued flower-pot pocket. Complete cost 35c Lisa Whiteley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. John Whiteley, wearing a cotton plaid smock dress, with double organza collar and flower trim. Cost 65c Melinda Whiteley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. John Whiteley, wearing a white petti-pique dress. The inverted pleats are trimmed with navy blue grosgrain bows. Cost 85c. Heather Campbell, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Pierce Campbell, in a bright red dacron frock. The tucked bodice front is trimmed with tiny white buttons. Cost 55c COATS AND A BLUE DRESS Top, left: Peacock blue, wool flannel, girl's coat and bonnet. Made by Alice Chaffer, Monument Park Ward. Center: Turquoise wool jumper and white dacron blouse. Made by Lynn Anderson, Monument Park Eleventh Ward. Top, right: Blue, wide-wale corduroy topcoat, with red cotton flannel lining. Made by Eileen McKean, Monument Park Third Ward. Lower left: Boy's wool topcoat and hat, made from a discarded coat. Cost 30c to make. New lining was used. Made by Merlynne Hoggan, Monument Park Second Ward. Lower right: Boy's wool tweed topcoat, made from a man's used sports jacket. New lining was used, and new cotton flannel interlining for extra warmth. Cost 90c Made by Florence Woods, Monument Park Twelfth Ward. *Myrtle Olsen is president of Monument Park Stake Relief Society, with Carol Daynes as work director counselor, Kay Sullivan as work meeting leader, and Hele Lach, sewing instructor. This class was limited to one participant from each of the five wards. 446 New and Remade Outfits made by Monument Park Stake Relief Society Salt Lake City, Utah SPRINGTIME PARADE Left to right: Heather Campbell, wearing a daffodil yellow coat and bonnet set, made of ' washable pin-wale corduroy. The coat is fully lined and has a lace-trimmed over-collar. Cost of coat, hat, and cute washable bag $1.25. Tracy Anderson in a yellow batiste dress with lace and embroidery trim. Brad Campbell, son of Mr. And Mrs. Pierce Campbell, is smartly dressed in a two-piece suit with matching tie, made of washable Milliken flannel. Cost $2.00 Martha Evans, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Edmund Evans, is very chic in an embroidered cotton frock. Cost 85c The combined cost of the clothing pictured in this group was under $5.00. Clothing of comparable style and quality, if purchased ready-made, would have been $30.00, or more. ——————— — sere "ati Ce ee Sa a a - 4 M HESLOP MOTHER AND DAUGHTER FITTING A DRESS IN RELIEF SOCIETY WORK MEETING Models: Janet Romney Crockett and daughter Elizabeth Crockett 448 nual Report for 1963 Relief Society, as organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith 122 years ago, was designed to accomplish a broad two-fold function — to provide benevolent service and to educate and develop its members. These general functions of the Society have zealously been carried forward. The records of 1963 show remarkable growth, service, and accomplishment. The blessings of membership were extended to more than a quarter of a million women (262,002), an increase of 13,836 members. Of this total membership, 2,684 were non-L. D. S. Women who recognized within the organization that which was uplifting and ennobling. The lofty purposes of the diversified program of Relief Society have been uniformly administered throughout the 5,583 ward and branch societies distributed in fifty-two countries of the world, including each of the fifty states within the United States. Of this number, 3,644 societies are located in the 388 stakes of the Church and 1,939 in 311 mission districts in the seventy-one missions of the Church. Regardless of whether the local unit consisted of six sisters in a remote section of the Church or ninety in an area of concentrated Church membership, opportunities for service, and spiritual, educational, and cultural development have been provided each of its members. Leadership service developed 173,587 Relief Society members' who officered the various branch, ward, district, mission, and stake organizations. Of this number, 22,182 were class leaders who untiringly gave of their talents in their respective assignments: the theology class leaders to increase understanding of the doctrines of the Church and thereby influence Relief Society members to better living; the literature class leaders to deepen the appreciation of class members for good literature and to help gain enlightenment, spiritual uplift and enjoyment through reading good literature; the social science Class leaders to help the wo. Men build better relationships within the home and to understand more fully the principles of Church government; the work meeting leaders to train Relief Society members in sewing and other homemaking skills. In addition, the visiting teacher message leaders labored to moti vate the great corps of 113,680 visiting teachers so as to encourage and uplift the women visited monthly in their homes. Such visiting teachers in pairs made 4,325,341 visits to families in 60,640 visiting teacher districts. Included in this total number of visits were those made to 11,451 non-L. D. S. Families who had requested that Relief Society visiting teachers visit them in their homes. Refinement, culture, and spirituality have been promoted both for Participants and those who have listened to the harmonious strains of music rendered by approximately 41.865 Singing Mothers in 2,902 choruses. Such music has been presented at special programs, concerts, socials, Church meetings, and funeral services. Music 1§ considered an essential part of the Relief Society program. The Relief Society Magazine, the official organ of Reef Society, containing the lessons studied by its members, arucles of general reading interest to women, religious messages, helps to howvernwkers, and choice literary stories and poems, was received by 217.397 suityseribers throughout the world. Love-inspired compassionate Service, ministering ta the sick and comforting the sorrowing have continued among the imeertenl serwoes unselfishly rendered by Relief Society marmhpers durine the past year. Upon assignment of Relief Society, 390 566 visits were mae to the sick and homebound: 32,666 days were spent in the cere of the sick; and 596,349 hours were devoted to other COMPASSIONATE SeTVICe@S, sweh as caring for the children of a sick riother or taking & Hot mel to an aped neighbor. Relief Society members also dressed S26 bodies fer Wurial and assisted at 9,644 funerals by providing such servires és the handiing of flowers at the funeral service or the prepwting of food for tie mem bers of the bereaved family. Relief Society under the direction of the Piresthead bas alse anded in the care of the poor, the destitute, the widow. Anc the crahan trreupn the Church Welfare Program. Ward and branch Reef Socwty presents under the direction of the Priesthood Visited lOO.969 famniles te Ge termine their needs and made 50,653 ortiws COMALTS wilh UCT) Sprilws A total of 902,22) hours were contributed by fare membre of tie Church on welfare projects, such as canning Gi frulls and vegetables eva sewing needed clothing. Homemaking skills were developed «iil creates teieny diecowared by the sisters as they completed « total cf [(28 S9¢ wiles. OF Nis number 687,091 were sewed aftictes ji UG Gut', CAN ane household furnishings, and 367.803 wera other handrail anitias Ai and better methods of homme iianagenmnt art belie: weve ol pr fern Ing homemaking Uasks were also leartwel Thus, the reeord of serviewe anil Sviainpisnwneants at laiwt Sr creties throvghout the world? Aba elledte fr he divenily of it WOITlen S$ Olganiwatron establishes ay St @ Ceritliry ee w@ lilo i by the Propliet al God an new tinéhived ty te thee Ulllest renter WOMEN'S OFS PetiGn In tie Lilet Shote SZ aor vite Sreewtary Ty eamurer 1963 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri iN MISSIONS TOTALS i | Organi f zations | 29 8 260 9 12 ANOdt fo) NS a 0) Members 552 115 206 183 318 114 164 Organitzations Members 552 375 IN STAKES IN MISSIONS | Tera 1 = q United States Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Total United States Organi zationgd Members 1,891 321 4,096 511 2,418 98,012 933 5,948 377 3,473 1,266 3,338]213,641 Organizations 18 6 14 15 592 Members Organi: Zations 74 17 | i i T | Me 2277 395 4,112 146 511 1,863 225,883 bers of Relief Society Organizations and Members in Other Countries =y — — 44, ALS si IN STAKES | IN MISSIONS TOTALS ' | as reaniOregani-| Members r: Other Countries tionsiMembers] zations|Members] zations i} Argentina 53 1,242 53 1,242 (| Japan 42 701 42 701 Australia 33 1,039 35 793 68 (1,832 | Korea 8 305 3 305 Austria 14 378 14 378 — Lebanon 1 12 1 12 Bermuda 1 9 1 9 | Mexico 15 581 109 2,482 124 3,063 Belgium 11 200 11 200 Netherlands 10 166 24 269 34 435 Brazil 58 1,673 58 1,673 New Zealand | 36) 1,188 | 45 791 81 1,979 Canada 96 4,538 85 1,544 181 6,082 § Nicaragua Chile 19 391 19 391 | Norway Cook Islands 6 85 6 85 Okinawa j Costa Rica 2 38 2 38 | PanamaCanal Zone} Denmark 24 541 24 541 = Philippine Islands E! L Salvador 7 134 7 134 Paraguay England 58 1,287 145 1,995 203 3,282 Peru Ethiopia 1 6 1 6 | Puerto Rico Fiji Islands 1 20 1 20 ~~ ~Poland Finland 19 405 19 405 Samoa Formosa 11 184 11 184 = Scotland France 36 643 36 643 = Spain Germany 27 961 155 4,010 182 4,971 | Sweden Greece 1 5 1 5 Switzerland Guam 1 16 1 16 ~~ 'Tahiti Guatemala 26 530 26 530 Tonga Honduras 2 88 Zz 88 Union of So. Africa |. Hong Kong 8 98 8 98 Uruguay 28 822 © 28 822 | Ireland 16 164 16 164 Wales 15 | 149 1 | 149 | italy 4 27 4 27: ) | N oa ts) N — eo ~w Lg AaAMMNON ~s + Me MMA N a a ise) 207 102 oO) ro 0 + © + fe) nw Lap) fe) ~ 250 13 ") [oe] <f fe) N N te | N N Ce) Ss ~" N N Total United States | 3,338 213,641 | 592 | 12,242 3,930 225,883 Total ee Other Countries | 306 10,335 |1,347 | 25,784 | 1,653 | 36,119 + GRAND TOTAL 3,644 223,976 1,939 38,026 5,583 = 1962 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 1963 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP INCREASE 13,836 Membership Growth MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in the Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS Organizations (Total) Stake and Mission Organizations (Total) Stakes Missions Mission Districts Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1963 1962 Increase or | Decrease st Psat a ane RA Re SRE Rane nce ee AE ky ee oR a ee 262,002 223,976 38,026 2,684 173,587 4,417 1,189 20,874 | 2 11,245 | 6. 21,144 2 22,182 | 248,166: 211,736 | 36,430 " | ' | Not tabulated ' ': i 4,097 / 19,89 10,58 113,680) 107,25 6,353 | 770 388 71] 311 5,583 3,644 1,939 6,021 361 303 5,288 3,435 1,853 i fi §: i ' i 773 69 | 13,836 + 12,240+ 1,596+ 332+ | 37+ | 27+ | 2+ | 8+ | 295+ 209+ | 864 | L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers Non-L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions MAGAZINE 1963 1962 Increase or Decrease | 529,439 434,531 94,908 491,604 412,936 78,668 37,835+ 21,595+ 16,240+ Not tabulated in 1962 j i | ' ' | | 2,724 | 2,135! 589 40,835 | 33,515 | 7,320) 48 - Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions | 217,397 | 201,570) 15,827+ t ___ AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) In Stakes In Missions Theology Work Literature Social Science Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings DEVELOPMENT THROUGH EDUCATION 1963 Number Per Cent 1962 Number Per Cent 100,561 83,629 16,932 107,504 102,777 95,486 96,476 59,912 26,346 38.4 37.3 44.5 41.0 39.2 36.4 36.8 52.7 44.0 93,224 78,193 15,031 99,439 95,097 86,809 91,075 54,967 24,738 37.6 37.0 41.3 40.1 38.3 35.0 36.7 51.3 43.6 SEWING Articles Completed (Total) Sewed Articles (Total) Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles (Total) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 22,182 CLASS LEADERS 1,054,894 687,091 25,287 70,617 85,569 4,013 264,526 237,079 367,803 5,613 5,067 546 886,856 611,591 23,580 61,097 83,110 5,084 236,487 202,233 275,265 4,892 4,342 550 168,038+- 75,500+ 1,707+ 9,520+ 2,459+ 1,071 - 28,039+ 34,846+ 92,538+ INFLUENCED 262,002 MEMBERS NOILVIONAGS ONMVAANOH HOMON* I MEETINGS Total Meetings Held Relief Society General Conference Relief Society Meetings at Stake Quarterly Conferences Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Stake and Mission Board Meetings Stake and Mission Leadership Meetin Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings Other Functions 1963 252,175 1 363 7,328 4,097 gs 3,231 234,456 179,468 35,621 19,367 10,003 1962 217,178 1 209,787 163,889 31,605 14,293 Increase or Decrease 34,997+- 142-+- 187+ 110+ 77+ 24,669+ 15,579+ 4,016+ 5,074+ 1963 1962 CHUJRCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 100,969 50,653 97,515 902,221 | 894,957 63,957 | 63,389 215,516 | 218%620 5,587 4,337 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches (Total) 36,978 By Stake Officers 27,059 By Mission and District Officers 9,919 32,060 24,241 7,819 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1963 Receipts $2,151,410.47 4,210,497.66 $6,361,908.13 4,019,969.83 $2,341,938.30 Assets — December 31, 1963 Net Cash on Hand December 31 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office 2.22 2-22.22.2-00-0020+ Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings Increase or Decrease 3,454+ 7,264+ 568+ 3,104 — 1,250+ 4,918+ 2,818+ 2,100+ a onan ee$2,341,938.30 422,912.22 77,926.67 107,878.52 TOTAL ASSETS eee$2,950,655.71 Afl material submitted for publication in this department should he sent Htiycugely siake and misston Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing tie stilbmmittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for aay [O58. Page 47. And in the Relief Society Flandbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES European Mission, Relief Society Leaders and Singing Mothers at Servicemen's Conference, Bertchesgaden, Germany November 1963 Upper picture, left to right: Mary Russon, Swiss Mission; Lyle Petersen, Norwegian; Frieda Loscher, 'Austrian; Jean Fletcher, Swedish; Ingred Sorensen, Danish; Ruth Benson, Central German; Emily Myers, North German; Frances Tate, Berlin; Genevieve Gardner, South German; Carolyn Brugger, Servicemen's Relief Society Coordinator, European Mission. Not in the picture: Minnie P. Burton, European Mission; Agnes Jacobs, Bavarian; Marilyn Anderson, Finnish; Edith McIntire, West German Mission. Lower picture: Singing Mothers who presented music for the conference. Sister Brugger reports: "For three spiritually filled days, we met and partook of the spirit of our wonderful leaders. There were two special meetings for Relief Society, one a special workshop for presidents and secretaries, with specific helps given on the annual report. A skit was presented to point out better ways to prepare the narrative section of the report. A question and answer period was informative to all. "On the final morning of this conference, our lovely spiritual Relief Society session was held. Edith McIntire, of the West German Mission, gave a farewell tribute to Minnie P. Burton, thanking her, on behalf of all of us, for the willing service she has given. The Germans refer to Sister Burton by saying, 'Sie ist eine Dame' (She is a lady). This is a German's highest tribute to a woman. A cut crystal candy dish was presented to Sister Burton to remind her of the love and respect we feel for her. Sister Burton, in her remarks, asked that we open the door for the Savior. Sister Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission, expressed the desire that we all have the proper attitudes. Sister Freda Joan Lee, wife of our beloved apostle Harold B. Lee, expressed a hope that we would pray with our children. Each sister who spoke left her testimony and love with us. "Singing Mothers from all parts of Europe blended their voices and gave moving renditions in the Relief Society sessions, and in a general session of the conference. When we left the beautiful Bavarian Alps, we had a renewed desire for service and stronger testimonies, and we were indeed spiritually fed and physically uplifted." 460 JUNE 1964 Tacoma Stake (Washington), Tacoma First Ward Bazaar November 1963 Left to right: Rosella Seal, First Counselor; Marion Harris, President; Vera Casto, Second Counselor; Bessie Groom, work meeting leader. Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Tacoma First Ward proved the worth of hard work in preparing for their bazaar. They made a total of $550. About $140 was earned from serving a turkey dinner the evening of the bazaar, and the remainder came from items made by the sisters during the year. The pillowcases draped over the front of the table were made by Anna Conquest, a sister who is eighty-one years old. She averages a pair of pillowcases a month, but the month before the bazaar she made three pairs. All are solid embroidery. Best sellers at the bazaar were eighteen sets of tea towels, plus some singles; a dozen sets of pillowcases, two dozen cloth balls, detergent bottle covers, eleven doll quilts, four large quilts (with orders for more); two dozen cloth hangers, aprons, and children's clothing. We certainly felt that this fund-raising activity was an outstanding example of diligence and cooperation." Reseda Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Different Occasions Merlene Colarusso, President, Reseda Stake Relief Society, reports: "In recent months, the Reseda Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus has presented a spring concert, commemorated the Society's anniversary, given an autumn concert, and was featured in the stake Inter-Faith social. Maryann M. Mendenhall is chorister, and Carol C. Cook, organist." Whittier Stake (California) ''Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair' September 20, 1963 Left to right: Jean Ann Bowman and Jacqueline Kaline, two of ninetythree models who participated in the fashion show. Rea W. Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society, with Bette McDonough and Alta Ellis as her counselors. Sister Jorgensen reports: " 'Come to the Fair — Our Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair.' With these words, the Whittier Stake Relief Society set the stage for a full evening of festivity and fashion. An ingenious carousel and a giant pink horse delighted both models and spectators as the curtains parted. Musical numbers were interspersed with a colorful narration which kept the fair moving at a lively pace. Models, from toddlers to grandmothers, came on stage in small groups to view the wonder and excitement created with paint and paper. "This fashion fair was the culmination of a summer sewing school held in each ward of the stake. Ensembles for all occasions were proudly worn by those who had taken advantage of this wonderful opportunity afforded them by the Relief Society. Various fashions shown included morning, afternoon, and evening wear, children's apparel, mother and daughter outfits, maternity wear, and accessory magic. As each of the ninety-three models walked down the ramp toward the many gaily decorated booths, a capacity audience of nearly 450 applauded their appreciation for the efforts of these sisters." 462 Florida Mission, Florida West District Visiting Teachers Honored October 27, 1963 Front row, left to right: Carol Jean Sweetwood, theology class leader; Tottie Brown, visiting teacher adviser; Effie Tucker (thirty-four years of visiting teaching); Thursa Adisson (seventy-eight years old, oldest visiting teacher); Sister Wilson Allred, youngest visiting teacher; Stella Herring, President, West Florida District Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Nona Goodson, First Counselor; Florence Ewing, pianist; Dorothy Britsch, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Norton, Second Counselor; Tura Lee Buzzett, Magazine representative; Mary Etta Williamson, literature class leader. Loree Faircloth, social science class leader, and Gayle Farnsworth, chorister, were not present when the picture was taken. Ollie Hutchinson, President, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: "The West Florida District honored the visiting teachers at leadership meeting, October 27, 1963. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented and enjoyed by all present. We feel that all were inspired by the meeting to be more prompt and faithful in magnifying their callings as visiting teachers. Corsages and Relief Society pins were presented to the sister with the most years of service, to the oldest sister, and to the youngest." Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board October 1963 Front row, left to right: former President Nina Beth G. Cunningham; Education Counselor Rula B. Johnson; Work Director Counselor Ada H. Reid; Secretary-Treasurer Rue Spencer. Back row, standing, left to right: Nellie H. Weaver, chorister; Virgie T. Packer, organist; Viola J. Gold, Magazine representative; Mary G. Lancaster, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Hendrix, work meeting leader; Lucille A. Gibbs, literature class leader. Ulden Shupe, social science class leader. Sister Cunningham reports: "For the first time in the history of Gooding Stake in Southern Idaho, the full stake board attended the Relief Society Annual General Conference in October 1963, with the exception of the theology class leader, which position was not filled at that time. These sisters expressed great appreciation for the wonderful inspiration and helps given by the capable General Board sisters, and by the General Authorities. Each of the stake board members in the picture has served for many years in Relief Society work, and has given faithful and devoted service." Elaine P. Dixon is the new president of Gooding Stake Relief Society. Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Relief Society Annual Christmas Exhibit November 21, 1963 Left to right: Annalesa Strom, a native of Sweden, who demonstrated Christmas customs in Sweden; Evelyn Lewis, Work Director Counselor, Cowley Ward; Helen Snell, work meeting leader, Cowley Ward. Pauline R. Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward exhibited outstanding work and demonstrated the Christmas customs of other lands and served each visitor with a taste of native foods served at Christmastime in that land. The stake Relief Society board served punch and pretty cookies to all who attended, from a beautiful Christmas table. The purpose of this exhibit each year is to help our own sisters and give them ideas for Christmas, and also to mterest nonmembers. It has grown so large we are afraid our cultural hall will not be large enough for one day's display. Between five and six hundred people attended." 464 JUNE 1964 North Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Annual Christmas Concert, December 21, 1963 Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Amid the festive holiday splendor of poinsettias and holly, sixty Singing Mothers of the North Davis Stake sang songs of the Christmas season and hymns of praise to the Prince of Peace at their annual Christmas concert. It was an evening long to be remembered by families and friends who filled the chapel to overflowing. "The table in one foyer was decorated to depict an old-fashioned Christmas, with an oil lamp, bowls of shiny red apples and popcorn, and an old Bible opened to the Christmas story. Decorations in the other foyer portrayed "Peace on Earth," with a nativity scene, a Bible opened to Luke 2, candles and poinsettias. "The sisters were dressed in snowy white blouses and dark skirts, each with a colorful red Christmas corsage. As the narrator set the atmosphere for each musical number, colored slides of nativity scenes were shown to bring to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. "Following the concert, refreshments, consisting of French pastries and fruited punch, were served at two beautifully decorated tables which added to the yuletide atmosphere. Iola Murray was the capable director of this lovely evening. The superb artistry upon the organ by Alice Gailey, and the equally beautiful accompaniment upon the piano by Marvetta Saunders (mother and daughter) were enjoyed by all. Talented guest artists presented special vocal and instrumental numbers. "These mothers have faithfully met at nine in the morning each Saturday to practice for the Christmas concert and stake conference. To be a Singing Mother is a joy and satisfaction which is held in high regard among our members. Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, and her Counselors LaVon S. Reid and Vera Thurgood, and board members were responsible for the planning, decorations, and refreshments for this lovely and successful evening." 466 During the year 1832 et Joseph Smith the Prophng them in 4 body Was in Ohio of faithfy] followey | except for abo WO months In a day Whe €mphasis jg While £0ing to and from Jackson Placed upon Individual responsjounty, Missouy; leven of th bility to do Issionary Work, we fifteen Sections that ake Up this learn through the Proph t Joseph Series of | SSOnS Were received in Smith that no Tesponsible per- | 1832 "Y Consist of s me of the SOn in the Church; free from better-kno Tevelations im the this obligation So Principles Octrine Covenants an Y whic €n shall] b Judged are aspects o se revelations are mention d, and the ttitude O Presented All of l € saints toward those not of the a Ould he Tue Church are indic ted. Studied as Sources Wisdom and One of the great Priesthood fuldance nN life. Includeq for Tevelations of thi sPensation Study this €ar ig €ction 76 Was Teceived in 1832. € saints Which h been called the grandwere imbued With th esire to est and st Wonderfy] revelation learn More about the Zion of the on the qd Stiny of Man that has latter day nd it glory. The €ver been revealed he TINCiples temple to © built in Jackson of j Stice, mercy, and Ove are County, Missour; ound therein, and th € Magna. Of pe Involving the sa]- vation of m JUNE 1964 on how well the citizens of the kingdom of God, male and female, honor the Priesthood are found in this material. Other aspects of the Priesthood are considered, such as the healing of the sick in the true Church. The loyal saint accepts the interpretations of the revelations from the First Presidency. Several times during this dispensation some interpreters of revelations have been misled in their desire to foster their own interests, and they have departed from the time-tested principles which keep the kingdom of God a house of order. A lesson is devoted to a revelation which has given rise to much speculation. Always the saint has found safety in heeding the guidance received from the leadership of the Church. Concluding this year's lessons is one of the most remarkable prophecies of modern times. One of the functions of the Lord's prophet is to warn the world of the consequences of evil-doing. Joseph Smith's mission as a prophet is confirmed in the prophecy on the American Civil War and the other events mentioned in that revelation. If there has ever been a time when the saints should listen to the prophet's voice it is in this day of prophesied war and other calamities. The 1964-65 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 57 — The Vision (D&C 76:1-49). Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat. Lesson 58 — The Vision (concluded) (D&C 76:50-119). Objective: To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved. Lesson 59 — The Church Independent (D&C 78, 83). Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church. Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (D&C 79, 80, 81, 82). Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says. Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (D&C 84:1-42). Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant. Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (concluded) (D&C 84:43-120). Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and the place of the Priesthood in the plan. 468 LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (D&C 85). Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord, and how claim to office may be tested. Lesson 64 — The Prophecies on Wars (D&C 86, 87). Objective: To understand the parable of the Wheat and the Tares and to study some prophecies given by Joseph Smith concerning the American Civil War and subsequent world events that witness him as a true prophet. Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Messages for 1964-65 Christine H. Robinson Tue Doctrine and Covenants, containing revelations and instructions given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is our modern scripture designed to provide specific guidance to all of us in our daily lives. The pages of this remarkable scripture are full of fundamental truths which can help us achieve a higher level of joyous, purposeful living. The 1964-65 "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," as in previous years, present, emphasize, and _ illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the foundation of a full Christian life. For example, the 1964-65 messages discuss such important personal qualities and attitudes as obedience, thankfulness, unselfish service, resistance to temptation, the pitfalls and dangers involved in attempting to judge others, the importance of developing our own God-given talents, together with such fundamental truths as the fact that all men will be judged by their own works and that we must seek and understand the work of the Lord as the source of all truth. More specifically, the great principle of obedience is discussed in relation to the fact that all blessings from the Lord are based upon strict adherence to his laws and requirements. Moreover, when we follow the Lord's instructions he is bound to bestow upon us the blessings associated with this obedience. The important human attitude of thankfulness is discussed in relation to the effect it has in enlarging and glorifying the personality. In presenting the divine principle of unselfish service to others, emphasis is placed on the fact that joy and happiness come to those who are deeply concerned and interested in the welfare, success, and happiness of their neighbors. Each of these messages is developed so as to demonstrate how 469 JUNE 1964 the application of these living truths can improve our own lives and set the foundation for joyous, purposeful accomplishments. Again this year, these living tive examples designed to clarify the principles being taught and to motivate personal application. The 1964-65 visiting teacher messages and their objectives are as follows: truths are supported with illustraMessage 57 — ''Leave Judgment Alone With Me, for It Is Mine and | Will Repay' (D&C 82:23). Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others. Message 58 — ''And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness Shall Be Made Glorious..."" (D&C 78:19). Objective: To emphasize the fact that thankfulness enlarges and glorifies the personality and radiates a spirit of friendliness. 7? Message 59 —"'Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor... D&C 82:19). Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the love of our neighbors, our actions must show genuine interest in and concern for others. Message 60 — **... That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea Even an Hundred Fold '' (D&C 82:18). Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded. Message 61 — 'Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" (D&C 82:5). Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard. Message 62 — ''For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth Is Light..."" (D&C 84:45). Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly. Message 63 — ''For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works." (D&C 76:111). Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions. Message 64 — ''l, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What | Say; But When Ye Do Not What | Say, Ye Have No Promise' (D&C 82:10). Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come. 470 JUNE 1964 Discussion 4: Home — A Haven of Happiness Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family. Discussion 5: Using One's Resources to Find Happiness Objective: To appraise ways one can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of her family and herself. Discussion 6: The Happiness That Comes From Work Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness. Discussion 7: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part 1) Objective: To discuss the need for improving one's own power of expression as an asset to happiness. Discussion 8: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part 1) Objective: To point up the great need among family members and friends to understand each other through good communication. LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature — Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I: The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah Preview of Lessons for 1964-65 Dr. Bruce B. Clark F or the first time in its history the Relief Society organization is publishing its own textbook for use in the literature program for the two years ahead. As indicated above, the general title of the work is Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I, just published, and intended for two years' use during 1964-65 and 1965-66, is sub-titled The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature. Parts II and III, now in preparation, are intended for use in subsequent years. The authors are Bruce B. Clark, Professor of English and Chairman of the English 472 Department at Brigham Young University, and Robert K. Thomas, Associate Professor of English and Director of the Honors Program at Brigham Young University. The principal idea behind the new book and the new literature program related to it is that the best way to study literature is to read it — that the work of literature itself is more important than anything that can be said about it or its author. Therefore, rather than emphasize historical and biographical matters, the new approach will emphasize the selections of literature themselves, often devoting a full lesson to just one or two short stories or poems. It would be desirable and beneficial to the Relief Society sisters if they would obtain copies of the new text and come to meetings prepared to discuss poems, stories, etc., contained therein. Fairly extensive comments on the selections are printed in the text, but these pertain principally to critical analysis and interpretation rather than to historical or biographical background. They are meant to supplement rather than substitute for a reading of the works themselves. Literature is vivid and exciting and provocative and inspiring — but only when it is read. And it should be read not only by the literature leaders but also by all of the Relief Society sisters. The selections in the new book — and therefore the lessons also —are arranged by theme (subject matter) rather than by time or country. In the past, several years have been spent on English literature, including two years on Shakespeare, and several years on American literature. Now the selections will be drawn from world literature — some modern and some ancient, some from one language and some from another, some of one type and some of another. Experience persuades us that the best story or poem for group discussion is one that focuses on some psychological, philLESSON DEPARTMENT osophical, or ethical question, yielding insight into human values, ideals, truths, problems, and frustrations. The new book contains selections rich in such insights, and these insights are emphasized in the textual analysis of the works. Three standards have _ controlled the selection of each poem or story included in the new text: (1) that it be literature of high quality; (2) that it explore subject matter and convey a message of value to the women of the Church and their families; (3) that it be written in such a way as to be understandable and meaningful to the readers for whom it is intended. This third point presents a special problem because the Relief Society membership includes women of such varied background. So that the book can be as useful and meaningful as possible, each section contains some relatively difficult selections and some relatively easy ones. Comments in the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine will suggest ways of using these selections for different groups. Also, the book contains in each section a number of "extra" selections, intended to supplement and enrich the lesson material itself and to provide reading material for use in the homes of the Relief Society sisters. The lesson titles and objectives for 1964-65 are as follows: Lesson 1 — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Objective: To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism. Lesson 2 — Literature ''Tasted... Swallowed... Digested"' Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight. 473 JUNE 1964 Lesson 3 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part | Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part Il Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 5 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part | Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of worldly materialism and affirms higher values. Lesson 6 — Exploring. Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Il Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness. Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Ill Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of act vaeee and hypocrisy and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity. Lesson 8 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part IV Objective: To show how literature recognizes the greater difficulty of seeing faults in oneself than of seeing them in other people. Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Soe Ss Beet ee Sp eyue sec Preview of leszons fai 1964-65 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Eacu year the social science lessons of the Relief Society examine an area of human interaction, observe the forces producing human behavior, and consider ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of our society. In the first of the series on Divine Law and Church Government emphasis was placed on divine law as the basis for Church government, and on Church government as Priesthood in action. It was pointed out that divine 474 law has been continuously available to man, and that God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. 'For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). In the lesson year 1963-64, attention was focused upon Church government as an effective and thoroughly organized unit fully providing for interrelations of the various parts, dominated by the divine nature of the Church as a whole. In the current series our effort is to see all human activity in the light of divine law. The design of the Creator for the perfection of mankind unfolds in the revelations of the divine will expressed in Church government. The basic function of Church government is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man'? (Moses 1:39). Our attention is called to the fact that the law of God and his organization is devoted entirely to helping man achieve his greatest potential. Force is not the method, but counsel, persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, and love unfeigned, together with the development of faith through inspiration and revelation, is God's'_ method. (D&C 121:41.) From this point of view, Church government should provide the direction for the activity of Church members. Every phase of life from birth to death, including the daily routine of making a living or solving the problems of society, should be included. Honesty, full respect for the rights of others, unselfishness and love of fellow men are the basic requirements for citizenship in the kingdom of God. "We should put forth every effort to supplant the aristocracy of wealth with the aristocracy of character and to LESSON DEPARTMENT SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES eaeABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen 20.---aillETERNAL LIFE Dungan.25 2s. GOD OF ALL NATURE—Tchaikovsky _.30 2 8GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen.25 OeHEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn _ 0.00.000 25 —. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen.25 IN HIS STEPS—Wilson.25 I l I | I! L I | I l I l | | I | I I l | I I l i I | I a. LORD BLESS THEE AND | KEEP THEE—Madsen _.20 eeONWARD CHRISTIAN | SOLDIERS—Sullivan.30 I | l l I I | I | I i l l | | | | | l l l I | I! | Ls TWENTY THIRD PSALM—Schubert _._. 25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval ee ee a ae a SE EEE, | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music indicated 1! | above. [1] On Approval ([] Charge H (] Money Enclosed ddress cncencccnnceesStaas ity and State AO>Z | Daynes Macc v 15 E. Lst South / Salt Lake City 11, Utah) JUNE 1964 awaken in the minds of the youth a realization that to be honest, to be dependable, to be a loyal citizen of the country, to be true to the standards of the Gospel are the noblest ideals of life" (McKay, President David O.: Church News, October 26, 1963, page 2). Priesthood is dynamic, demanding creativeness. Progress is the objective. Government of the Church has the challenge of growth and expansion until it touches the life of every human being upon the earth. As a successfully functioning organization it must produce evidence of the continual improvement of human conduct. The final product is the perfected individual, and the perfected human family. The function of Church government must embody all of the benefits of divine guidance. Satan's plan would have robbed man of progress. It would have taken away decision. It would have applied force instead of reason. Christ's plan provided for personal growth through initiative, decision-making, and creativity. His plan recognized the potential of Godhood in man and provided an organization through which man may enjoy unlimited development even to the perfection of the Father.* "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect"? (Matt. 5:48). Christ's government on earth as in the heavens must call forth the divine characteristics of man in overcoming selfishness, greed, and hate, and in controlling the appetites, disciplining the mind, and in stirring man with a neverending thirst for and the quest of knowledge. The following lesson outline for this year will give detailed expression to the ideas involved in the above discussion: Lesson 15 — The Application of Divine Law to Life Objective: To emphasize that religion and life are and must be one. Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home _ is claimed on meritorious behavior. Lesson 17—The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations (concluded) Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations. Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community Objective: To point out that the functioning of the Priesthood involves the total of human experience. Lesson 19 — The Value of Church Activity Objective: To show that activity in the Church is essential to the fulness of life. Lesson 20 — The Church Welfare Program Objective: To increase our understanding of the meaning and implications of brotherhood. Lesson 21 — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men Objective: To emphasize the vital role of the function of Church government in bringing about peace on the earth. 476 Ilda Elaine James There is a bliss in solitude of night When the grass is a mint of silver, softly bright, The crickets singing litanies of praise In harmony with our nights... Their days. Little branches weave their soothing fingers Across night's forehead, where peace lingers. Day's wounds are soothed, and languid air Rests the tired heart, for everywhere Is beauty's blanket mercifully spread Impartially over the living and the dead. In the garden, lilies whitely gleaming Invite us tenderly to share their dreaming. Star-jewelled sky — earth's counterpane, we rest — I'il say my prayers, and sleep upon her breast. WORLD'S FAIR — MAY TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Tour leaving July 12, includes Hill Cumorah Pageant, World's Fair, Montreal and Quebec, Canada EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII JUNE 17 — OCTOBER 12 TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 2 eee eee 80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Oun EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 4101. == 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 477 | eA Welcome Sift for every Omemaker Cumorah Page ant, p> to August 23: aSsion Play Tour. Esther James Tours 460 7h Avenue L Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 _ EL 99-805} 478 SPECIAL 10 DAY TOUR One Year Old Fly to World's Fair for 3 days. Bus to Hill Cumorah Pageant, Sacred Grove, Christie Lund Coles oe a voo, Liberty Jail, Winter Quarters Today |! Taught her How to blow the fluff From a seeded dandelion., ALL PERSONALLY ESCOR Watching the dainty stuff ae Cemetery. "Let Us Help You Travel Worry Free'' Rise with the slightest breeze.! Watched her unbelief Call or Write At a bubble, rounded, Iridescent, brief. Wlurdock Jravel,! Saw her shape her lips, Inc. Blowing hard. After, | heard a small whistle, And her proud laughter. 14 South Main (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) Salt Lake City 328-3161 The Secret Eleanor W. Schow | learned a little secret, and this it proved to be, A tiny seed of regret for one scarce known to me, | knew its power at first sight; This little seed was dynamite. | saw fear of deep trouble within her eyes, and doubt; The heart must burn as stubble when gossip flies about; And so within the heart of me | hid that seed where none could see. Then with apparent blindness | left it very still, And fed by loving kindness it throve and grew until One day it bloomed, and all could see Sweet fragrant flowers of love for me. Ninety-nine Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Wilson Young Sanford, Colorado Ninety-seven Mrs. Milicent Curtis Smith Bakersfield, California Ninety-four Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Mary Glines Tridell, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Polly Walker Harris Orem, Utah Mrs. Sarah Jones Harman Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Mary Jane Lythgoe Burton Kaysville, Utah Roseanna Neagle Lunt Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Lydia Elliott O'Kelley Prineville, Oregon Mrs. Josephine King Straw Tracy, California Ninety-one Mrs. Lilly Hatch Eldridge Woods Cross, Utah Mrs. Jennie Tingen Bragonje Washington Terrace, Utah Mrs. Wilhelmina Bell Gillett Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Phoebe Ann Reeves Davies Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Sarah Humphreys Passey Thayne, Wyoming Mrs. Maria Elizabeth C. Brothers Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Anna Edling Wahlquist Murray, Utah Mrs. Jessie S. Rollins Harris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Felts Flagstaff, Arizona Enchanted Vesta N. Fairbairn Warm scent Of fragrant pine, A fair, faint view, haze-veiled, And drowsy bird song make summer Magic. 480 New from Deseret Book Relief Society Reading Course Volume OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS —-An Anthology of Literature, Volume I (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Here it is! The first in a series of analysis of fine world literature. Out of the Best Books, Volume I. Is the exciting, new Relief Society course outline for the '64-'65 and '65-'66 years. Great literature from the pens of men like Robert Browning, William Wordsworth, Robert Burns, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and many others come to life with more meaning in this exciting volume. Here is a valuable addition to every LDS library! Deseret Book Company COM PANY AST SO. TEMPLE AN Gxedepee. 'te 44. East South Temple, 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT C w " ie | SALT LAKE CITY Salt Lake City, Utah os = Ld 2, cP i 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Dear Sir: Enclose d please find $2.95 for 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 2 my copy of Out of the Best Books Volume | Money Order [7], Check], I have an account, please charge (] -—. A S$ —> SE S Se Ah [o) Residents of Utah add 2% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah and brown Sugar - 4S well as fine granulated and Superfine., - Same high Quality Same pure natural food energy.. - home-grown and home Produced. It's Pure Food Energy "From Our Land" ee, Magazine