DUTY OF CHILDREN.

	Noticing a piece in the EXPONENT—
"Duty of Parents"—it caused me to reflect
on the duty of children to their parents. I
think it says somewhere in the Command-
ments of the Lord, "Honor thy Father and
thy mother, that thy days may be long on
the earth." I think were the affections of
the mother felt and cherished by her chil-
dren with corresponding sympathy, doubt-
less this earth would exhibit more of heav-
en than at present. I think a mother
teaching her children to pray is the most
sublime and tender scene the imagination
can conceive. Elevated above earthly
things, she seems like one of those guar-
dian angels, the companion of our earthly
pilgrimage.
	A dear mother is the first to embrace and
nourish our puny frames, so I would say
unto you, children be kind to your mother;
it is she that watches your bed of sickness,
it is she that is ever ready to proffer to the
parching lip the cool draught, and soothe
the fevered brow, happy if she meet one
kind glance in payment for her labor of
love. How pleasant it is to see children
obedient to their parents and kind to each
other; I think such a mother is blest.
How beautiful where there are large fami-
lies and all the older members make it a 
practice to speak kindly to each other, and
set good examples before the children—and
we must, if we want to be true Latter-day
Saints, and gain for ourselves an exaltation.
We must try and bear with each other's
faults, and not one feel above the other.
How elevating is the tendency of such a
family! How happy must the husband and 
father feel, when he comes home from his
labors at night, to meet the smiles of all
his household, and realize the good feelings
existing between them. Let us then, as
true wives and mothers, in the absence of
the husband, call our little ones together
when we are about to retire to rest, and
have prayers with them, and ask in faith
for such things as we stand in need of, and
the Holy Spirit to be with us at all times,
and when we close our door at night let us
try and shut out all contention and discord,
and let us seek to live aright, so that we
may be counted worthy of an exaltation in
the Celestial kingdom.
	JANE GODFREY.
Clarkston, March 12, 1878.


THE time is past when "anybody can
teach school," even a country school. The
time has come when the people are de-
manding that the youth of their children
shall not be wasted by superficial culture,
but that good seed be sown instead of nox-
ious weeds. Is there any parent who con-
siders that a common-school education is
more than his child needs? or that the best
teacher his school has ever had is too good
for him? On the contrary, did he not pay
his share of the tax for that teacher more
willingly than he ever paid any other simi-
lar tax? The true economy of time is to
accomplish the most in it; of the children's
time, it is to prepare them for lives of use-
fulness, to fit them to fill the ambition of 
their parents in becoming the noble men
and women of the future.—S. H. White.—
Ex.


