HOME AFFAIRS.

	NOTICE HAS been given through the "Dese-
ret News" by Elder John Taylor, President of
the Council of the Twelve Apostles, that the
Forty-eighth Annual Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ will convene in the large Tab-
ernacle in this city, on Saturday, the 6th of
April, at 10 o'clock a, m.
	ARTICLES OF FAITH.—The cards containing
the articles of Faith, which have recently been
prepared for the use of Latter-day Saint Sun-
day Schools, are for sale at the Deseret News
Office. These have been carefully arranged to
give correct ideas of the principles of the
Church in a few short, simple paragraphs,
which little children can very readily learn by
heart. At the Commission Store for Home
Manufactures they keep for sale quantities of
these cards, just a suitable size to put into a
letter; price, 50 cents per hundred. Persons
who are writing letters to relatives, friends, or
acquaintances, should supply themselves with
these cards, and thus distribute them abroad.
They may be "like bread cast upon the wa-
ters."
	THROUGH COURTESY of the editor, Elder A.
Milton Musser, we have received and perused
the pamphlet entitled "Fruits of Mormonism,"
by "non-Mormon" witnesses. This little
book, containing only thirty-five pages, will
give briefly much correct information con-
cerning this people, upon many points which
need elucidating intelligently to strangers.
Testimonies of many educated and refined
people, to the honesty, industry, frugality,
progress and untiring endurance of this people,
are given by the author in their own words,
from their sketches, lectures, addresses, &c.,
which cannot be contradicted. Elder Musser
has also concisely given, in the closing pages,
such statistical, geological, political and other
general information of the condition of the
Territory and its resources as cannot fail to
make an impression for good, showing as it
does the exertions past, present and for the fu-
ture promotion of morality and everything cal-
culated to elevate and improve the condition
of mankind. For sale at the Deseret News
Office; 25 cents per copy. These pamphlets
should be widely distributed.
	THE YOUNG Ladies' M. I. A. of the Thir-
teenth Ward had a re-union on Thursday,
March 14, at the residence of their President,
Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas. A good spirit pervad-
ed the assembly. An essay on Charity, by one
of the young lady Counselors, and some exer-
cises in singing and reading were very credita-
bly rendered. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. P.
Woodruff, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. R. R. Grant,
Miss Belle Clayton, Mrs. L. Greene Richards
and others made suggestive and happy re-
marks, calculated to encourage and aid the girls
in their march of improvement. The repast
prepared by the young sisters was excellent,
and the smiling and joyous faces of these
young and beautiful girls shed a radiance of
light and an influence of good feeling over the
company, which happified the occasion. These
re unions among the young girls are calculated
to disseminate a good spirit and unite their
sympathies and energies.
	THE EIGHTEENTH Ward Relief Society,
which has been only recently organized, met
at the Lion House on Wednesday, March 27,
for a social entertainment. The afternoon was
spent in cheerful conversation for mutual bene-
fit, and at seven all sat down to a bountiful
supper. After partaking of the good things
provided by the sisters for the occasion, all ad-


journed again to the large parlor, and President
Joseph Young made some eloquent and touch-
ing remarks upon the life, character and labors
of his beloved brother Brigham Young; also
the work of the Latter-days and the glory
awaiting the Saints who endure to the end.
Counselor D. H. Wells by invitation of the 
President, Miss E. R. Snow, also spoke feel-
ingly of the many associations and tender remi-
niscences which had been called up by coming
into the house of the departed prophet and
brother, who had been so many years the es-
teemed President of the Church. Alluded to
the brethren of the Quorum of the First
Presidency who had passed away—Willard
Richards, Jedediah M. Grant, Heber C. Kim-
ball and George A. Smith, now followed by
their leader and beloved bro her, Brigham
Young. Hymns were sung by Prof. Thomas
and wife, in which the assembly joined. The
meeting was a pleasant one, and a goodly por-
tion of the Spirit of God rested upon all.


