NORTH JORDAN, SALT LAKE CO.,
Jan. 3d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Minutes of the meeting of the Young
Ladies' Improvement Association, held at
North Jordan Ward, Mrs. Mary A. Haigh
presiding.  Meeting commenced with usual
exercises; after which Counselor Eliza Ben-
nion stated that she was happy to meet
with so many of her young sisters, but felt
her inefficiency to instruct them in the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
She advised the girls not to speak evil of
one another, but try to obtain the confidence
of the sisters, and by their good actions to
retain it.  Alice Harker felt her incapabili-
ty of fully expressing her gratitude for the
innumerable blessings she had received
during the past year.  She realized that our
actions were not so commendable as they
might be, but thought it our duty individ-
ually and collectively to meet together and
make our Association as interesting as pos-
sible.  Select reading by Miss Isabella Web-
ster, entitled, "A Voice from Dixie Land."
	Sister Angeline Spencer bore testimony
to the goodness of God; felt that if we had
the spirit of this work our meetings would
not lack interest, and stated that we ought
not to neglect our meetings, for, by attend-
ing them, we obtain spiritual blessings,
which are essential to our life and salvation.
Sister Eliza Spencer, President of the Re-
lief Society, gave some very excellent ad-
vice to the young sisters, among which
were some instructive remarks on storing
grain, and sericulture.  She was much
pleased at the advancement the young la-
dies were making, and realized that we
were progressing favorably; advised the 
young ladies to obtain a testimony for them-
selves that this was the true Church, and
not rely upon the testimony  of others.  Her
hope of heaven and future life were far
dearer than all earthly blessings.
 Sister Moses spoke on the law of Celestial
Marriage, and advised the young sisters not
to speak a disrespectful word of this holy
principle, but if they did not understand it,
to pray to the Lord for wisdom, and He
would reward them by answering their pe-
titions.  Recitation by Alvina Harker, en-
titled "Hate of the Bowl."  Remarks were
made by other sisters, and a good spirit pre-
vailed.  Meeting closed by singing and
benediction.
MARY A. HAIGH, President.
HATTIE HARKER, Secretary.
VIRGIN CITY, KANE CO., Feb., 18, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
This is a small settlement with not
more than about  thirty families in all.  Our
people are very industrious and most of
them are living their religion.  Our Relief
Society meet once in two weeks.  We em-
ploy our minds and hands: to do good is our
motto. We make quilts and have donated
some of them to the Temple at St. George,
and Manti.  We assist the poor and the 
needy, the sick and the afflicted, for we de-
sire to do what is required of us knowing,
the Lord loveth the cheerful giver.  We
try to cultivate a spirit of oneness, and live
agreeable one with another.  Our Bishop
often meets with us and speaks very com-
forting words to us, and tells us that we are
a great help to him etc.  The Teachers vis-
it the members of the ward, and give in
their reports once a month, and that creates
a good feeling with us.  We read in our
meetings the EXPONENT and the Women
of Mormondom.  We are all in favor of 
laying up grain, although there is but little
raised here.  We have procured a few
bushels of wheat and our Bishop has given
us a bin in the Store-house to put it in, and
we expect to keep adding more.  We have
an interest in the factory at Washington, an
interest in the Co-op Store and also in the
sheep herd.  W[-] procured some silk-worm
eggs last spring and raised quite a few
worms, and have some cocoons on hand but
do not know anything as yet about reeling
or spinning the silk, but intend to learn as
soon as possible.  We take the EXPONENT
and are pleased with it.
	Wishing success to all your endeavors,
we remain your sisters, etc.
ELLEN PARKER, Pres't.
