OUR FUTURE LIVES.
	What are our future lives to be? Dwell
long upon this subject, and ponder it well
in your minds my young sisters.  Are we
to be useless, indolent women, mothers of
ignorant, rude, uncouth children?  Or will
we be useful, intelligent, noble-minded wo-
men, mothers of good, bright, noble boys
and girls?  Now, my dear sisters we can be
either, just which we please; just which
we qualify ourselves for; just which we are
capable of becoming and prepare our-
selves for.  If we will lead an indolent life
while we are girls; if we will spend our pre-
cious time in reading trashy novels, things
that we must forget if we ever become
worthy to fill high and holy positions; if
we will not read our Church books and in-
form our minds, obtaining useful knowledge,
we will undoubtedly remain ignorant, and


be inefficient mothers, not worthy of being
the means of bringing noble spirits into
the world; not worthy of the position God
designed for us; in short, not worthy of the
blessings of the priesthood of God.  But, if
on the other hand, we will spend a portion
of our time in reading good books, in stor-
ing our minds with the precious grains of
true knowledge; learn the principles of the
gospel of the Latter-day work; and become
acquainted with everything that tends to
enlighten our minds, or improve our men-
tal faculties we will be able to become use-
ful and intelligent mothers.  We will be
capable of training our children in that way
which will lead them to be men and women
of God, worthy of bearing the title of
Saints.
	Just think of the importance of the train-
ing of these little ones.  How many of us
take this into consideration?  How many
of us ask ourselves, what would I do if I
had a child, toward instilling in its young
mind the truth and wisdom it needs.  Some
will say, ah, well, there is time enough af-
ter we are married to begin to study on
these things.  Now young girls, it is not
going to do us any harm to think upon
this a little, and improve ourselves that we
may not have to account for a useless life.
Think how sweet and innocent the infants
are when they are given to their mothers,
little angels as it were, and how careful par-
ents should be to have them grow up just
as sweet, pure and innocent as it is possible
to develop them.
	It has been truly said many times "edu-
cate the mother, and you will elevate the
children."  Then let us educate ourselves
for a useful life, be humble, prayerful and
God will aid us.
