				QUESTIONINGS.

Sweet woman—child, that nestles near my heart,
With downy touch like birdlings in the nest,
What magic came with you to heal the smart
And kindle joy instead within my breast?
Brought low with woman's weakness, here I lie
And gaze upon my treasure bought with pain,
And pity you for woman's destiny,
And long to shield as mothers long in vain.

Life seems so hard to such as we, my love,
An endless round of weakness, toil and pain,
Of deep humiliations, longings vain,
And blind outreachings for the light above.
We love and suffer, daily offer up
Our hopes, our lives, our all that we can give;Self-sacrifice we drain as nectar cup;
For others only we are taught to live.

We're bidden to the last and lowest seats
The Master's servants at His table spread,
And given but fragments of the royal feast,
While with the rarest viands some are fed.
Our brother creatures in their haughty strength
Claim all the higher places for their own,
And say the gentle Master them has sent
To bid us come no nearer to His throne.

They say that from their hands we must receive
The bread of life which they may ask of Him—
Though they may follow Him to love and serve,
We must but love and serve and follow them.
While He rewards His own with wondrous powers,
With honors, kingdoms, crowns and lives divine,
We may have naught; our very lives be theirs,
And even you they'd tell me, are not mine.

Oh, darling! you have lately seen His face
And in His presence felt no diffidence;
Oh, tell! ere you forget or my heart break,
If now you are forever banished thence?
If after we have worn his crown of thorns
And borne, like Him, the cross, with bleeding feet,
To touch our outstretched hands He e'er will scorn,
Or send, not bring, the balm of healing sweet?

May we no longer touch His garment's hem
Without a brother's hand outstretched between?
Will His life-giving voice but quicken them
And leave us sleeping till THEY break our dream?
Is servitude our everlasting doom?
E'en high as man's hopes may we not aspire?
Because we here sit in the lowest room
Will Christ ne'er call us "Daughter, come up higher?"

Your mild, sweet, saintly eyes look into mine,
A slow, rapt smile breaks over your small face,
Your lips keep silence, solemn, sweet, divine,
But in your beatific look I trace
A glad assurance that the lowly Lord
Whose feet the Magdalen might bathe and kiss,
Who gave, not sent, to her His precious word,
Will end the cankering doubts in perfect bliss.
