PRACTICAL CAPABILITIES.

	Whatever tends to a better preparation for
the duties of actual life should be considered
p[-]rt and parcel of one's education. As indi-
viduals filling up an existence here in this
probation, it should be the aim to adapt one's
self to circumstances in such a way as to ren-
der life enjoyable in the fulfillment of its real
duties and obligations. Education does not
depend upon one's advantages always. In
many instances persons have attained to emi-
nence, who have not even had the opportunity
of being taught the simple rudiments of their
native language when young. To be sure
learning properly applied is a great lever
towards progress, and every child who can be
instructed while young should comprehend
and appreciate the advantages accruing from
knowledge derived from books. But there are
experiences that call out capabilities, and exi-
gencies which bring into action powers and
faculties which were previously hidden from
their po[-]sessor. A great proportion of man
and womankind are destitute of that moral
propelling force which is necessary to bring
into practical use the best and most useful at-
tributes of their natures; but when physically
necessitated they are compelled to do, and find
often a new and rare pleasure and satisfaction
in their effectual efforts in their own behalf.
	Men, generally speaking, believe themselyes
capable of practical work, but women, as a
class, have not as yet comprehended their
powers in this respect. They are capable of
much more and higher work than is generally
supposed, and were it possible to convince them
of the fact, and would they themselves, by
their own volition, develop the faculties given
them, how much broader would be their views,
how much wider their range of thought, how
much higher and nobler their aims in life, how
much truer their conception of God and His
works.
	"I want to be useful in my day and genera-
tion upon the earth," is the burden of many a
song uttered by the sisters in this Church, but
immediately followed, in many cases, by
"What can I do?" Every one can do some-
thing, if they will seek to develop their capa-
bilities and put them into practical use. But
in many instances it is only "a refrain," they
will not arouse themselves; their desires may
be all right, but they are totally inactive and
parasitical, instead of energetic and self-re-
liant, and suffer themselves to drift along in
the narrow groove of narrow minds, without
the power, seemingly, to burst the nutshell
and resolve their desires into systematic action.
	There is a great field of labor before this peo-
ple, there is need of efficient help, and all who
will lend their best endeavors for the promo-

[Column 2]
tion of the good of the human family may
find an ample range for their labors. Suppos-
ing there should be some failures, there is
some benefit derived even from these: they
bring out other thoughts and plans of action,
and cause one to make more careful, or strong-
er exertions in future attempts.
	It is terrible to see young girls who could
acquaint themselves with the true science of
living, fret and whine away their existence
given them for such a glorious purpose, because
God has not given them wealth to luxuriate
in. They become chronically morbid, because
they lack the energy to develop their own ca-
pabilities.
	In the cultivation of one's powers and at-
tributes there are abundant sources of pleasure,
which those never know who are content to
drift on from day to day, without any purpose
but to kill time.
	Girls cannot be too well developed, in body
or mind, to fit them to fill the responsible po-
sitions for which nature designed them. They
cannot be too well informed. Thousands of
them bring to their own home, when they en-
ter into the marriage relation, a ruined consti-
tution, a peevish temper and a dwarfish mind,
for want of a proper care of their health and
cultivation of their powers. Their habits are
not consistent with the laws of nature, "they
must havo a good time," which often means,
with them, an undue amount of unhealthy
recreation, tight lacing, tight shoes, a style of
dress in which health has no consideration,
rambling and desultory thoughts, and a "don't
carishness" in general. Such girls are not
very likely to take household cares cheerfully,
and they are totally unprepared for the glori-
ous crown of motherhood.
	If it were possible to influence the "Daugh-
ters of Zion" to comprehend the necessity of
developing all their good attributes, and ap-
plying their hearts to wisdom, concentrating
their energies to some settled purpose to bene-
fit themselves, their parents and others, in-
stead of wasting their precious moments in
frivolity and nonsense, how grand and elevat-
ing might be the result. How happy, then,
might be many a home that is now cheerless
and desolate; how buoyant and light many a
heart that is now sad. Gir's, you who live for
pleasure, and find it a phantom, begin and dis-
cipline yourselves into habits of industry and
true economy of time and means. Be active
and energetic in performing your duties, how-
ever trivial they may seem; read good books,
those that will inspire you with noble thoughts,
and enlarge your mental capacities, go out in-
to the air and sunshine, instead of moping in
close, dark rooms, lest the wind should brown
your complexion. There is a relief to the
wearied mind and body, that one finds in the
freedom of the woods and fields, that is better
comprehended than expressed. Women would
be better able to combat with the trials, wor-
ries and cares of life, if they let into their
houses more of God's glorious sunshine, if they
breathed more of the pure air of heaven out-
side their dwellings. Walk or ride every day in
the open air—it is better for you than medicine.
Brace up the nervous system and stimulate the
energies by these simple, invigorating meth-
ods, instead-of cultivating morbid feelings
and harping upon trials and sacrifices, or
drawing out all the vitality of others to help
support the burden of life. There are many
lessons yet to be learned in the great experi-
ence of life, which require diligence and ener-
getic action, and let us sisters reason together,
and endeavor to understand wherein our high-
est duty lies, and be faithful in the perform-
ance thereof.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


