NOTES AND NEWS.

	A BILL giving women suitably qualified,
permission to practice before the United
States Supreme Court, was passed in the
House of Representatives, February 21, by
a vote of 169 to 87.—Ex.
	THERE WILL be a Quarterly Conference
of the Association for the Advancement of
Women, held in Washington D. C. Wednes-
day April 10. At this Conference it will be
decided where the Sixth Congress of wo-
men will be held.
	THE ARGUMENTS of the delegates of the
National Woman Suffrage Association be-
fore the Committee on Privileges and Elec-
tions of the United States Senate in behalf
of the Sixteenth Amendment in favor of
Woman Suffrage, have been printed in full
at expense of the government. Also a pro-
test by Mrs. Dahlgren against Woman Suf-
frage.—Ex.
	ON MARCH 2d, the local government of
the province of Quebec, of which Mr. De-
boucherville was Premier, resigned. A
new ministry is forming under the lead of
Mr. Joly. The occasion of this change is
said to be the refusal of the Lieutenant-
Governor to sanction either the new tax
bill or the railway bill. There is great ex-
citement in the city respecting the politi-
cal crisis.

[Column 2]

	MRS. E. G. LEWIS in the March number
of "Woman's Words" in a gracefully writ-
ten article entitled "Ourselves," says:
"Daughters can help themselves by making
lighter the cares of the father and mother
as they journey along over the rugged paths
that lead to the River; and by early ac-
quiring a habit of industry and cheerful-
ness, and a determination to do whatever
may be theirs to do, believing they are
here for some other purpose than to occupy
space.
	SIXTEENTH AMENDMENT IN CONGRESS.
—The vote in the House Committee on the
Judiciary, upon the Sixteenth Amendment
granting Suffrage to women, stood five for
five against the proposition. It is alleged
that three of the opponents approve of in-
vesting women with the ballot, but insist
that such act of sovereignty belongs alone
to the States. The vote shows an immense
advance in the public sentiment. When, in
Congress, the House Judiciary committee
gives a tie vote in favor of Woman Suffrage,
every State Legislature may see how surely
the people are becoming ready to accept
this measure of justice. The States may
lead the way. The people of Massachusetts
are ready to-day. Will the legislature be-
lieve it, and act accordingly.—Ex.
	THE NEWS from England and the conti-
nent of Europe is very conflicting. Dis-
patches of the 27th ult., state that Russia
is understood to have indicated a disposi-
tion to make further concessions to Aus-
tria and some to Roumania, but it is sur-
mised by apprehensions of difference with
England; Germany has for the present
abandoned all idea of issuing invitations
to the Peace Congress. Vienna dispatch-
es of the same date said it was considered
the Congress had failed, and that Russia
must look to her own interest. There is
an opinion expressed by a German and an-
ti-Hungarian press, that by an Anglo-Rus-
sian war, Austria would gain power, as Rus-
sia must pay a high price for Austria's neu-
trality. Ignatieff it is said has arrived at
Vienna, and will commence negotiations at
once.
	THE CONQUEST of New Mexico and Cali-
fornia" is the title of a new book just pub-
lished. The author, P. St. Geo. Cook, of
the U. S. A., is thoroughly acquainted with
his subject having had charge of the troops
who marched across the desert wilds to ob-
tain possession of those two now important
countries. The book contains a map of the
route from Santa Fe to the Pacific Ocean.
It is graphically written in the style of a
Historical and Personal Narative, pub-
lushed by Putman and Sons, New York
City, and contains over 300 pages. We
think this book will be of special interest
to many in this Territory, as the noted
Mormon Battalion as it was termed, figured
conspicuously in that fatiguing and terrible
march. The Book is well worth reading,
and gives much information of the country
and its inhabitants, their manners, customs,
style of warfare etc. Mr. Cook in the close
speaks of the gold discovery by two of the
Mormon soldiers.—For sale at Dwyer's
Book Store, Main Street, price $1,50.


