EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I believe the Relief Societies of St. George
have been rather remiss in representing
themselves in your valuable paper. The
old organization was dissolved and a Branch
Society organized in each ward since the
re-organization of the Stake. I submit a
few items in regard to the condition of the
Society of the First Ward, to show that we
are alive to our duties. We were organ-
ized on the 23d of May last, by President
J. D. T. McCalister and Bishop Miles P.
Romney; the following named sisters were
sustained as officers.
	Hannah H. Romney, President.
	Sarah A. Church,		}	Counselors.
	Hannah M. Wiltbank,	}
	Hannah G. Perkins, Secretary.
	Mary Jarvis, Assistant Secretary.
	Susan. Y. Milne, Treasurer.
	Since that time Sister Perkins has re-
signed, on account of ill health, and Annie
M. Romney appointed to fill the vacancy.
We have enrolled, as members, 73 names,
but quite a number are deterred from at-
tending, some on account of having small
children, others from advanced age, sick-
ness, etc., though I think we have the
benefit of their faith and prayers, and those
who do attend are very faithful in their
labors, responding willingly to the calls of
our President, who is a very energetic wo-
man and one whom all love and respect.
An excellent spirit prevails, and we are
greatly blessed and prospered. We have
one of those invaluable books entitled "The
Women of Mormondom, " from which our
Secretary reads at each meeting. I need
make no comments on this masterpiece of
literature, as it recommends itself to all
who peruse it. But the bitter persecutions,
the heart-rending trials, of our sisters,
therein recorded, wake a responsive chord,
and call forth the holiest sympathies of
the hearts of the mothers and daughters of
Zion, and sets before them bright and il-
lustrious examples, worthy of imitation.
Their records will assuredly stand forth to
unborn generations, as an imperishable
monument of glory to the memory of those
noble and heroic women, and to the con-
demnation and everlasting shame and dis-
grace of their vile, fiendish persecutors.
The sisters desired to have a social picnic
on New Year's day, and accordingly they,
with their husbands and brothers (compris-
ing nearly the whole of the Ward,) met at
the school house, which had been beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion, and after
partaking of a rich repast, spent the rest of
the afternoon and evening in dancing,
songs, and recitations; it was a great suc-
cess; and "all went merry as a marriage
bell." Presidents McCallister and Eyring
participated with us in the enjoyments of
the day. Our Bishop assisted the officers
of the Society in doing the honors of the
occasion, which were performed in a very
creditable manner. This is a very poor
grain country, but we have succeeded in
storing a little more than two hundred lbs.
of wheat, which is a small beginning, but
we hope to add to it the coming season.
Bishop Romney and Counselors manifest a
lively interest in our welfare, and in assist-
ing us to take some preparatory steps
toward carrying out the counsel given rela-
tive to the silk-culture. They have ren-
dered us very efficient aid in purchasing
one-fourth of a lot, situated a short distance
west of the Temple Block, which Bro. Geo.
Jarvis kindly offered to take care of this

[Column 2]
season; he has already set out fifteen hun-
dred mulbery cuttings, and we expect soon
to plant some of the trees and seed, also
some cotten seed. Yesterday President
H. H. Romney called a bee of the sisters,
to lay out a flower garden and plant flower
roots, seeds, etc., to beautify the grounds,
where we hope at some future day, by the
blessing of God, to build a Hall for the use
of the Society. A number of the mem-
bers, with Bro. Jarvis and some of the boys
of the Ward, responded cheerfully to the
call, and all worked with a will (the officers
setting a worthy example), until they ac-
complished what was desired. I pray that
our labors may prove successful.
