SHALL MARRIED WOMEN TEACH?

	This is a question just now exciting some
discussion, and is one of sufficient import-
ance to render it worthy the study of the 
thoughtful educator. The decision must
rest solely on one point—are married wo-
men competent teachers?
	Now this is, after all, the only basis upon
which any man or woman should be em-
ployed in a work of such vital and eternal
value as teaching. There are gentlemen—
chivalrous, kind, sympathetic, blessings up-
on them! whose keen insight penetrates in-
to the life of a woman struggling alone in 
the world, and whose generous sympathies
would extend to her position and salary in
the educational field, on the plea—not of
her ability, but of her need, of the work.
	And these say "If a woman is prosperously
married, if she has found strong and tender
hands to smooth for her all the rough places
of life, then give her position to one who is
suffering for the financial profits it offers."
	This conclusion is in a material sense hu-
mane and considerate, but its premiscs are
utterly false. Fitness for the work is the
only basis upon which teachers should be
employed. If financial need were the only
point to determine, then why not refuse a
place to an unmarried lady who has a fath-
er on whom to rely? Then when a candi-
date for a teacher presented herself, her fate
could be determined, not by a test of her
technical knowledge and general powers,
but by reference to the tax list, to ascertain
the income of her father!
	Charity is certainly a type of heaven, but
justice must take precedence even of mercy
in the selection of public school teachers.
It is noble and grand to give, in the selec-
tion of mechanical employees, preference
to the average woman who needs it, to
whom life at best is but a struggle, but in
the high and holy work of education—work
that might well tax an angel's powers—
personal considerations should not prevail.
	Some of the finest educational work in
the United States is done by married wo-
men. Their private life has nothing to do
with their public work—whether they toil
for daily bread, or whether they bring to 
their work a fresher enthusiasm, a higher
zeal in teaching, because they love the la-
bor. In fact, the woman to whom salary is
less an object than the enduring results of
her labor has in her hands a lever that
brings cultured thought to her work, in a 
degree impossible to one in limited and
hampered circumstances. Married women
bring to their work an experience, an in-
sight, a poise rarely attainable in teachers
younger and untried. They have tact,
judgment, and discretion, and the school
system could illy spare them. The public
schools are not designed as a charitable in-
stitution to furnish employment for indi-
gent women. their aim is to produce the


best possible results, irrespective of the
sex or circumstance of the worker. It is
the labor, not the laborers, that must here
receive the most profound consideration.
	LILIAN WHITING.
St. Louis, Mo.—Ex.


