OF SALT LAKE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The First Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake County was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on Satur-
day, the 23d of March, 1878.
	President John Taylor, President A. M.
Cannon, President Mrs. M. I. Horne, her
Counselors, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S. L.
Heywood, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. D. Young
and the majority of the Presidents of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Co., occupying the stand
and platform. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the Secretary read the re-
ports. There were thirty two reports read,
giving a statistical and financial account of
the condition and proceedings of all the
branches of the Relief Society in the County-
excepting East Mill Creek and Fort Herriman,
their labors and their advancement from the
date of their organization to March, 1878. The
donations received have amounted to upwards
of $50,000. When the full report to present be
fore the Annual Conference is compiled, a copy
will be sent to the Exponent, for the benefit
and instruction of its readers.
	After the reading of the reports, Mrs. Horne
said "I have been very much pleased in hear-
ing the reports; it is a great proof to me of the
energy and perseverance of the members of
the Relief Societies. I will not take up your

[Column 2]
time, as we have President Taylor and Presi-
dent Cannon with us, and would like to hear
from them."
	President Cannon:" While hearing the re-
ports read from the different Societies. I felt
very strongly the influence the Relief Societies
are exercising with the people. * * * We
are to be careful what impressions we make on
our children. Sisters, be sure and let them
understand you fulfill your duties and obliga-
tions to your God and to your religion. * *
I expect to have read, at the next Conference,
the amounts donated by the Relief Societies to
the poor, to Temples, to the Emigration Fund,
to purchasing grain, to buildings, to schooling
children whose parents are not able to do so,
&c. I pray that the blessing of the Lord may
rest upon your endeavors to do good."
	President John Taylor: "I appreciate the
acts and operations of the sisters. Your feel-
ing, spirit and desire is to do right, and to be
helps to your husbands and to the Priesthood
here on the earth. At times it seems we are
unable to do much, yet the Lord gives us
power to do that which He requires at our
hands. It is required of the Elders to send the
Gospel to the nations, then to gather the hon-
est in heart to Zion, then to organize and
strengthen her Stakes. Moreover, the man is
not without the woman, neither the woman
without the man in the Lord, and while we
are attending to outside affairs, earning a liv-
ing and other duties, the women are attending
to their duties, and the sisters are really doing
as much good in their spheres as the men do in
theirs. Affairs in Zion seem to be progressing;
it is not now as it was some years ago. Some-
times we meet with crowds of women, as we
do here to-day; there were not so many
back in Nauvoo; sometimes we meet with
crowds of Bishops: some time ago there were
but few Bishops, now there are about two hun-
dred and fifty. These organizations all tend
to help to roll on the work of God upon the
earth. Your services, sisters, are just as neces-
sary for the furtherance of the work as those
of the brethren. We are all operating togeth-
er for the interest of the Kingdom of God on
the earth. You are acting in the silk business
just as faithfully as the men are in their sphere.
	One great principle that we should study is
how to elevate ourselves; to be polite to each
other in all our acts; to be honest and true to
one another. With the Almighty helping us,
we should take a course to elevate mankind.
We should be courteous to each other, and try
to approximate to that state of perfection we
are all aiming for. It would not be amiss to
set a good example before our children, and
the sisters to be good examples to their hus-
bands; but let all that we do, be done with an
eye single to the glory of God.
	"We need the mercy and the grace of God
all the way through. If it was not for God's
mercy, Satan's power is so great we could not
accomplish much. We ought to instill into
our children the principles of the Gospel, and
teach them to live in obedience to the princi-
ples of truth and righteousness.
	"We may call on some of the men to go on
missions; sisters, don't you try to hinder them,
but help all you can; we want to feel that we
are bound together in indissoluble ties that
cannot be broken. Call on the Lord and He
will hear your prayers; and when we get
through we will meet the hosts of the mighty
and good that are gone before.
	"Help the poor and afflicted all you can.
Pray for them, give them a little flour, a little
butter, sugar, meat, and other necessary things
that will be for their good and comfort.
	"May God bless you, your President, and
Presidents, your children, your families, and

[Column 3]

everything pertaining to you, that you may be
saved in the Celestial Kingdom of our God.
Amen."
	Sung, Doxology.	Benediction by Elder A.
M. Cannon.	ELIZABETH HOWARD,
	Secretary.


