LAZIER-THAN MEN."

	This is truly an age of progress, and we
may add an age of competition. We hail
with delight the many indications that be-
speak the future glorious destiny of woman.
We watch with zealous care every unguard-
ed utterance, every unintentional acknowl-
edgment, in favor of human equality,
which unconsciously falls from the lips of
ungenerous, egotistical men. As it has
been grudgingly admitted since "the meri-
dian of the third century," by a small por-
tion of the "Lords of Creation," that wo-
men are the actual possessors of SOULS, I
should be pleased to have aome one tell me,
how long the poor creatures have been al-
lowed to exercise their "lazy intellects."
When I contemplate that it has taken cen-
turies to bring the dull comprehension of
man to the realization of the simple fact
that women have souls, I almost despair of 
his ever becoming fully converted to the
divine reality that women were created in
God's image, ("Male and female created he
them,") or to the honest conviction of
grand old Wendell Phillips that "God nev-
er wastes ability." Tupper has sweetly
written that "Woman is the poetry of a
man's life," but where we would ask is the
poetry of woman's life, we fear it will too
often prove to be—verse.
	The burden of the song of every daugh-
ter of Eve from the creation has been "O,
if I were only a man!" And whence com-
eth this desire? From the fact that she
has not been allowed to be Woman's self.
She has not been allowed to cultivate the
talents which God has given her equally
with man.
	Even to-day,
	"Woman is held politically to have no ex-
istence.
	"Civilly she is a minor.
	"In marriage she is a serf.
	"In labor she is made inferior and rob-
bed of her earnings.
	"In public instruction she is sacrificed to
man.
	"Out of marriage she answers to the sins
committed by both.
	"As a mother she is deprived of the 
right to her children.
	"She is only deemed equally responsible,
intelligent, and answerable in taxes and
crimes."
	Not long since a minister of the gospel,
in this city, one who claims to stand upon
a very broad platform, casting behind him
all Creeds, Dogmas, boldly denouncing the
narrowness of all denominational lines,
grandly and eloquently advocating the
scientific and spiritual advancement of
man,—well this modern Heologist, amazed
the thinking women of his audience one
evening, by the injustice and audacity of
this assertion.
	"Intellectually women are lazier than
men." No doubt the rudeness, or if you
please, the vulgarity of the expression will
impress the reader as it did me, coming from
a college-bred Theologian, and we hope it
will make the fist of every intelligent wo
man in the land clinch as did ours when
we heard it.
	I am glad that he said it for the sake of 
the women who "have all the rights they
want." It is just such medicine they need
to make them whole.
—Ex.


WE prove our love of God by keeping
His laws.


