	FRANKLIN, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO,
						March 14, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I write to inform you that our Relief So-
ciety is in good condition, we have com-
menced to put up a frame building for society
purposes, 18x26 feet, which we are in hopes
of completing this coming spring or sum-
mer if no unforseen events transpire to
have it otherwise. In accordance with the
counsel of our late beloved President we
have laid up forty-five bushels of wheat, but
the grasshoppers destroying almost all our
crops last fall, we could not add to it as
much as we would like, but through the
blessings of God we hope to do better an-
other year. We likewise wish to throw in
our mite towards building the Temple at
Logan, for which we have started a Five-
cent-Fund, to be paid once a month, think-
ing it would give all the poor a chance to
contribute to that laudable undertaking in
which we are all so deeply interested. We
remember the poor and administer to their
necessities as occasion requires.
	For quite a few years after this place was
settled it belonged to Utah; but of late years
the surveyors have drawn the dividing line
and have left us out in the cold; and a
pretty cold corner it is sometimes, never-
theless we try to catch the spirit of the
times that is among our sisters in Utah
who are trying to build up the kingdom of
God.
	At the present time there is a great deal
said about Woman's Rights, and how some
men are opposed to women coming forward
to claim them either as suffragists, or to try
to stem the current of crime that comes so
glaringly to the front in every large city
and town; in my humble opinion I think
that through tradition or some other cause,
the trouble has been because woman has
been too yielding, and it will take all the
ability of what is termed the "strong-mind-
ed women" to assist the weaker and teach
them to act with more independence of
character, and I believe it is in the power
of woman to bring about a great reform in
this respect.
	On October 30th, we were blessed with a
visit from Sisters Zina D. Young and E.
Davis, we had a splendid meeting at which
Mrs. Z. D. Young organized a Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association,
which is in good working order and will
result in a great amount of good to the
daughters of Zion who will improve the
opportunities—given them in the Associa-
tions. We likewise have a Y. M. M. I. A.
here, and those who attend as a natural
consequence, improve in public speaking,
and in the knowledge of the Gospel.
	Success to your valuable little paper, I
for one would feel very lonesome without
it. I am your Sister in the Gospel.
				ELIZABETH FOX,
					President R. S.

[Column 3]
	JOSEPH, SEVIER, Co., March 11, 1878.

