[Vol1 | July 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Lesson | Title: Health and Hygiene Lesson II]

HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson II. (Forty Minutes.) NOTE According to the plan outlined in the Relief Society Guide the work for July and August will consist of lessons on Health and Hygiene.
In September the regular work in Genealogy, Home Ethics, Gardening, Literature, Art and Architecture will be resumed.
I Care of the Body.
Next to a sound mind, a sound body is one of our most valuable possessions.
Every care should be taken to maintain or to create health.
It is a sin to injure the health through carelessness, vanity, love of pleasure, overwork, or immoderate eating.
Fresh air, wholesome food, and proper exercise are essentials of health.
The underlying principle in maintaining health consists in the elimination from the body of effete material.
This waste material is continually being produced by oxidation and breaking down of the various tissues.
The use of water in the economy of the system is of the utmost importance.
It is the one universal solvent and the medium by which foods are rendered soluble by digestion and conveyed to the tissues to be assimilated.
It distributes the heat of the body and acts as an agent in cleansing, both externally and internally.
The skin, kidneys, and bowels eliminate waste from the system and should be kept constantly active.
The skin should be kept in health by proper bathing; the kidneys, by drinking freely of pure water; and the bowels, by the use of foods which maintain or promote activity.
Fruits or fruit juices are very helpful to most people.
Buttermilk is tonic and wholesome in its effects.
The appetite, or special craving for foods, is often nature's best indication as to what the body requires. ]Milk and milk foods are best for children. 6 .
Sudden changes of temperature should be guarded against, whether in the ball room or the kitchen, the tennis court, or the hay-field.
Death has been caused by drinking very cold water while the body was overheated from exercise.
Different kinds of clothing for the different kinds of weather should be kept at hand.
Diet according to the season.
Human beings should acquire such habits of caring for the health that all the little attentions will be given almost unconsciously; thus avoiding worry and fret.
II.
The Bath.
Reference has been made to the internal cleansing of the body by the elimination of waste products.
The external care of our earthly tabernacle must not be overlooked.
Bathing should be given frequent attention.
It is important not only as to our health but from an ethical standpoint.
The Bath is most essential.
Have you ever experienced the discomfort of sitting in public assemblies near some one who did not bathe or change underwear with sufficient frequency?
The Bath should be taken more with the idea of keeping clean than with the idea of getting clean.
The temperature of the bath should be according to the habit, desire, or need of the individual.
There is also much in the purpose for which it is taken.
Warm baths are more for cleansing, while cold baths are for purposes of stimulation. ^V little baking soda or ammonia added to the warm bath softens the water and makes it more cleansing.
Care should be taken that children or old people do not suffer from chilliness after bathing.
In such a case rubbing the skin or taking exercise should follow, to restore circulation.
A warm soda bath followed by good and gentle rubbing of body with olive oil is excellent treatment for fevered children.
Every home that can afford it should have a bathroom.
When there is no better way an end of a room with comfortable temperature may be screened off for the occasion and a wash tub may be used.
If there is no laundry tub then take a swim in the wash basin.  The Foot Bath.
A foot bath at least should be taken every day; not only for the sake of health and cleanliness, but to promote the comfort of the feet and discourage the growth of corns.  . 7  Towel, Soap, Brush and Comb.
It is well for each member of the family to have his individual towel, soap, brush and comb.
Strict sanitation requires it.
The towels may be marked with needle work or indelible ink.
When circumstances make needful a common use of towels, be sure, in case of illness, to supply the patient with individual articles.
Diseases, and particularly skin troubles, are very readily communicated by general use of towels.
Conscience and common sense are our best guides in daily life.
Suggestions III Further knowledge may be obtained from local physicians or available text-books on the subjects.
Also, members learn much from each other in discussing the subjects.
Topics might be divided and given by several members.
Time should be be reserved for general discussion after the topics have been given.
IV Questions.
How should health be valued?
Name some of the essentials of health?
What is the underlying principle in maintaining health?
What can you say of the use of water?
Methods of elimination of waste products.  Give some methods that are helpful.
Discuss bathing from standpoint given, and from your own viewpoint.
RECIPES FOR BENEFICIAL DRINKS.  Apple Water.
Take apple parings and cores (or thin sliced whole apples if preferred) and cover with boiling water.
Let stand eight or ten hours.
Drink several times a day. (Given by Madam Davenport in her "Health and Beauty" talks.)  Unfermented Grape-Juice.
Twenty pounds of Concord grapes.
Boil and put through jelly bag as for jelly.
Then take the juice and add three pounds of sugar and boil three minutes, and bottle hot, the same as fruit. (Through the courtesy of Dr.
Romania B.
Penrose.) 8 .
July HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson III. (Forty Minutes.) IPublic Health.
Public health may best be maintained through the interest and efforts of individuals in accordance with principles of Hygiene.
Every member of a community should have at heart the welfare of all the others.
The conduct of each day should be prompted by conscience and active interest.
When a country is newly settled there is less likely to be sickness of certain kinds; but as the communities get older, and the soil becomes more impregnated with waste matter, it becomes more and more necessary to guard the sanitary conditions and use precautions against sickness.
Families as well as individuals should use the greatest precautions against the spread of disease.
Very valuable lives have been sacrificed just for want of care.
Every community, no matter how young, or small, should have a health committee to look after a pure water supply, drainage and sanitary conditions generally.
Quarantine regulations should be carefully carried out. 'The wonderful preservation of health among the Jewish people is attributed to the observance of the wise Mosaic laws which gave such ample advice on hygiene, sanitation, and the isolation of people who were sick.
When nations about them were stricken with epidemics of disease, the law-abiding Jews seemed immune.
The topic giver may name some of these Mosaic laws as obtained from the Bible.
Consider the Word of Wisdom and the promises made therein.
To promote the welfare of the community, the individuals must cultivate habits of cleanliness and niceness.
Special habits, such as use of tobacco, narcotics, food or drink that is injurious, must be overcome.
All evil passions must be placed and kept under control. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." IIA Few Dont's. (They will help to prevent the spread of disease.) Don't sneeze in public.
If you must sneeze, use your handkerchief.
. 9 Don't cough in public.
It is largely a matter of habit.
If you must cough, screen it with handkerchief or hand.
Don't spit.
Above all things, don't spit on sidewalk or in public places.
Don't go from any case of contagious disease without having body, and particularly hair and clothing, thoroughly disinfected.
Ill Breathing-.
In the first place, have the best air obtainable. can We live for a time without food or without drink, but we cannot live_ long without air.
We should always sit or stand in an upright position and take deep breaths.  Lips Closed.
The lips should be kept closed for breathing purposes and the air inhaled through the nose.
When children breathe habitually with open mouths, their parents should consult a physician.
Drinking Cups.
It is a well-known fact that people should have' their individual drinking vessels.
Some states have laws that do not permit of public drinking cups.
On the Pullman cars glasses are not provided unless asked for.
It is a good thing when wearied from indoor routine or sitting long, to step outside and with lips closed, head erect, shoulders back and elbows down, to inhale the fresh air slowly, and exhale slowly.
Some people raise themselves on the balls of the feet while inhaling and lower themselves while exhaling.
Try some of these simple exercises and see how restful and renewing they are.
If chilled while out in cold weather, some warmth and comfort may be obtained by taking a few specially long, deep breaths.
When leaving a Avarm room to go out into the cold air, be sure to close the lips before the first intake into the lungs of the changed atmosphere.
People whose business requires them to remain much indoors will derive benefit from observing these simple directions.
Sleeping porches or outside beds, to supply plentiful fresh air while sleeping, are coming to be considered necessities by many people.
Also, there are those who make a practice of eating or living outdoors as much as circumstances will allow.
The people whose business requires them to be outdoors have many advantages over the indoor workers, as well as some disadvantages.
.
IV Fresh Air in the Home.
As people grow in civilization they seem to consider more the need of fresh air in the homes and public buildings.
All modern school buildings have special thought and care as to ventilation.
Places of public worship should also be well ventilated.
If doors and windows were thrown wide open after each service it would be a good practice.
No matter how cold the weather, where people sleep in houses, each bedroom slept in should have the windows open every night.
It is also a good plan to open wide the doors, letting a full draught of air sweep through the house for a short time each morning.
There should be a constant inflow of fresh air into the homes, even in cold weather.
Windows lowered slightly from the top give fresh air without exposing the inmates of the home to danger.
Or the lower sash may be raised slightly and the space between sash and window filled with a strip of wood or with other material.
Fresh air will enter between the upper and lower sashes.
A fire on the hearth or in the grate, besides being so cheerful and pleasant, produces a change of atmosphere that is considered very beneficial.
VReview Questions.
How may public health best be maintained?
What about quarantine regulations?
To what is attributed the great health of the Jews as a people?
Mention some of the Mosaic laws. "What bearing has the Word of Wisdom on health?
Speak of some of the actions which menace the health of the public.
What provision is made in your town for individual drinking cups?
What about the air we breathe?
What about lips when breathing?
Name some breathing exercises.
What can you say of outdoor living for health?
What about fresh air in the homes and public places?  . .
11 July HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson IV.
Use the pamphlet accompanying the "Bulletin" as your text.  NOTE.
Reading matter on the subject of the ear may be forthcoming later.
I Review Questions. "What is the most important of the special senses?
Name some of the things which depend upon good eyesight.
Name some results of eye-strain.
Give some causes of eye-strain. "When should the care of the eye begin.
How may the eyes of infants and children be cared for?
Give one of the most frequent causes of blindness and the per cent of cases due to that cause.
Cite the instance given in the pamphlet.
Tell some ways of preventing blindness or defective sight in children.
What about school work required at home?
Can you make any suggestions for improvements in school work?
Tell some consequences of reading too long at a time and how to correct it. "What can you say of the lighting of school rooms?
The quantity and the direction of light?
Tell about the effect of artificial light.
Tell about the effect in print.
What about the effect of motion pictures on the sight?
Speak on the diseases mentioned in the text.
Tell What should be done in case of the accident mentioned.