HOW TO OBTAIN IT.

	Not a very intelligent caption I will allow;
and I will also admit that the rhetorical rule,
requiring the first sentence of an article to
foreshadow that which is to follow has not
been adhered to. However insignificant it
may appear, there were reasons both for the
unintelligent caption and for the equally mys-
terious initiatory sentence. Had it been headed
"Influence," which would have conveyed an
idea of the burden of the article, it would have
proved uninviting, and few would have read
even this far; while, had the first sentence been
consistent with the rhetorical rule above re-
ferred to, those who perused that far would
have arrived at the conclusion that it was the
same old thing they had read a hundred times,
and which had been threadbare from the first.

[Column 2]
While it is not my intention to moralize in
this regard, it will not be amiss if a hint
known well among the Bohemian fraternity,
is dropped to literary tyros: Hide, as long
as you can—and still retain the attention of
your readers—that which you intend to say.
The more mystery you infuse into your pro-
ductions, of whatever nature, the better the
great and intelligent public will like them. If
there are any who dispute this assertion, I have
but to refer them, for irrefutable proof, to
the thousand and one dodges resorted to by
the proprietors of quack medicines to secure
public attention. A reader may suddenly be-
come interested in the description of a new
disease, and find that it can be cured by Si-
mon's patent swill; he will see that a buried
city has been unearthed. and after reading a
few lines, finds that the discovery of this lost
city is like the discovery of great cure for all
evils, etc. The more mystery you have, the
better your readers will like it. It is just as
well also to remind readers, that they often
miss many a jewel thought because the writer
has been unfortunate enough to clothe it with
a homely or threadbare heading. Readers
should recollect that, as many a true and noble
heart beats beneath a homespun coat, so many
a bright and valuable idea may plod through
the world under an old and despised title. I'm
afraid my preface will be longer than my book,
but here's for it.
	Peculiar people have peculiar notions about
influence, and some people who are not peculiar
also have peculiar ideas about it. Nothing
particularly original is claimed for the idea,
but I hold that influence and confidence are so
closely allied that it will take a remarkably
discriminating mind to separate them; at least
they are that closely allied for the purposes of
this article. It is a popular idea that money
will bring influence, and it is true; that power
will secure influence, which is also true; but it
is an ephemeral influence, which reflects no
credit on those exercising it. Influence, how-
ever, will win wealth and power; in fact, it is a
power, as potent as any that can be wielded.
	In life the first thing to be striven to main-
tain—it applies to children, to boys and girls,
to men and to women, to all with the same
force—is honesty and uprightness in all things.
These should be maintained for themselves
alone; for, like virtue, they are their own re-
ward. Ambition is an element in every life—
that is, every life not blighted too early by af-
fliction, or by ignorance; and the gratification
of ambition is the exercise of influence—for
influence is a mighty power. To obtain this
influence different methods are devised by dif-
ferent minds; but I do not care how well laid
the plans may be, upon what logical deductions
they may be based, nor how carefully and fully
they may be carried out, unless they are
founded upon upright principles, they will fail.
They may triumph for a time, but the founda-
tion is of sand, and when the waves run high
the sand melts away in tho ocean, and the
super-structure falls a ruined mass,a monument,
while the the memory of it lasts, to the folly
of the designer.
	It is a common assumption that popularity
is influence; no greater fallacy can be enter-
tained. Popularity is of momentary develop-
ment—borne for one brief moment in the
wind of public opinion, and then lost to all
eternity; while influence, like confidence, is a
plant of slow growth. Years are required for
its roots to take a firm hold, but when once it
has become congenial to the soil, the mightiest
hurricanes of envy, and malice, and hatred,
blow round it in vain. It is a rock of ada-
mant, a loadstone, attracting the honest and
the true. Nothing is so thoroughly disgusting
as the desire manifested on all sides, by men
and by women, for public notoriety, sought for
under the impression that it is popularity. It


is a mistaken idea. Influence, like true love,
comes unasked, and following in its wake may
be found all that is so vainly sought and so ar-
dently desired, by those who resort to petty
expedients and trifling devces for a little eclat.
	The man of influence is one whose whole life
supports him in all he says and all he does. If
he says he will do a thing, the history of that
man's life passes through the minds of his
hearers, and every former act comes to the
front, and declares in words of gold, that he
will do what he says. He has proven himself
to be a man of truth and of honesty, and all
who know him know that his word is as good
as his life. He has won their confidence. I
do not care how ignorant that man is; I do not
care how bad may be the people among whom
he lives, that man must have influence. It is
as sure to follow an upright course, as disease
is to follow a violation of the laws of nature;
and I do not care how polished a man may
be, how intelligent, how educated, how elo-
quent, if he is not honest, if he is not truthful,
he can wield no personal influence. He may
talk with the tongue of an angel, he may tell
the truths of a God--and people will believe
them because they are true--but they come
with no force from the lips of the liar, or the
politician, or the hypocrite. While the man
of honesty tells his simple truths, and they are
treasured, because his hearers know he would
not tell them what he does, unless he firmly
believed what he says.
	Honesty and truth, morality and the virtues
are the foundation for influence, and unless
you observe these cardinal principles, you may
as well strive to get the moon as to obtain a 
permanent influence.
	Do not be misled. You must be good to be
influential; and after a few years of honesty
and truthfulness, you will find your power in-
crease as you are intelligent; and the longer
you follow such a course greater will become
your power, for every act of your lives will
back you up in what you say. That is the way,
and the only way to obtain influence.
