SANEPETE.

	The Qurterly Conference of the Relief So-
cieties of Sanpete Stake was held at Moroni,
Sept. 16, 1881, President Mary A. P. Hyde
presiding. Devotional exercises were offered
in the usual way. On the stand were Prest.
Canute Peterson, the Bishop of Moroni and
several Bishops from the adjacent settlements,
visiting sisters, Prest. E. R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi, and the local presi-
dency of the R. S. of this Stake. The reports
were read, showing how much good had been
done by the sisters of this Stake in supplying
the wants of the needy, and various charitable
purposes; also a liberal donation to the factory.
	President Hyde made a few remarks, ex-
pressing her gratification at having President
E. R. Smith and E. B. Wells present after so
long an absence, and her delight in hearkening
to and receiving the counsel and instruction
which might be given on the present occasion.
	Sister Eliza then addressed the assembly:
said she was much pleased to see so many
present, and that the brethren had favored us
with their presence, as she always felt stronger
when the brethren were present. Was well
pleased with the reports of the Stake; thought
the societies of Sanpete County were ahead of
all the Relief Societies in the Territory; that
the poor and sick were well cared for, which is
the first thing we should consider, and that
these societies were organized for the purpose
of helping the Bishops in attending to these
duties. Dwelt much upon the training of
children and duties of parents.
	Sister Jane Black, commonly known as
"Mother Black," who has reached the great
age of four score years, made a few remarks
on the subject of Celestial Marriage.
	Sister Wells addressed the sisters, urging
upon their minds the necessity of being ener-
getic in seri-culture and storing of grain. Re-
ferred to the signs of the times and how fast
the prophecies are being fulfilled.
	Prest. Peterson heartily endorsed all that
had been done and said, and urged the sisters
to press forward as they had done; was much
surprised at what had really been accomplished.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde thanked the sisters for
their kindness, and hoped they would be en-
abled to visit us many times yet. A number
of others spoke, expressing their willingness to
do whatever was required of them, and their

[Column 2]
satisfaction in listening to the remarks which
had been made. Conference closed by singing
"Now let us rejoice," congregation joining in.
Benediction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
