ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

	The subject of this pen sketch is, like many
other eminent women of the Latter-day Saints,
directly descended from the Puritans of New
England, and her grandfather, William Hunt-
ington, served three or four years in the Revo-
lutionary army. The father of Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young was also a patriot, and served in the
war of 1812. Samuel Huntington, one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence,
was the uncle of this old revolutionary soldier;
so Sister Zina, as she is familiarly known to
our people, is a lineal representative of the no-
ble blood of the Huntingtons.
	She says: "My fathers's family is directly
descended from Simon Huntington, the Puri-
tan immigrant, who sailed for America in 1633.
He died on the sea, but left three sons and his
widow, Margaret. The church records of Rox-
bury, Mass., contain the earliest record of the
Huntington name known in New England,
and is in the handwriting of Rev. John Elliot
himself, the pastor of that ancient church.
This is the record: 'Margaret Huntington,
widow, came in 1633. Her husband died by
the way, of smallpox. She brought children
with her.'
	"Tradition says that Simon, the Puritan im-
migrant, sailed for this country to escape the
persecutions to which non-conformists were
subjected during the high-handed administra-
tions of Laud and Charles the First. Tradi-
tion also declares him to have been beyond
doubt an Englishman. The Rev. E. B. Hunt-
ington, in his genealogical memoir of the
Huntington family in this country, observes:
'The character of his immediate descendants is
perhaps in proof of both statements; they were
thoroughly English in their feelings, affinities
and language; and that they were as thor-
oughly religious, their names and official con-
nection with the early churches in this country
abundantly attest.'
	"Of one of my great-grandfathers, the
Huntington family memoir records thus: 'John,
born in Norwich, Conn., March 15, 1666; mar-
ried, December 9, 1686, Abigail, daughter of
Samuel Lathrop, who was born in May, 1667.
Her father moved to Norwich from New Lon-
don, to which place he had gone from Scituate,
Mass,, in 1648. He was the son of the Rev.
John Lathrop, who, for non-conformity, being a
preacher in the First Congregational Church
organized in London, was imprisoned for two
years, and who, on being released in 1634, came
to this country, and became the first minister
of Scituate.'
	"The Lathrops, from which my branch of
the family was direct, also married with the
other branches of the Huntingtons, making us
kin of both sides, and my sister, Presendia La-
throp Huntington, bears the family name of
generations.
	"My grandfather, Wm. Huntington, the
revolutionary soldier, married Presendia La-
throp, and was one of the first settlers in the
Black River Valley, in Northern New York.
He was a native of Tolland, Conn., but in the
year 1774 removed to New Hampshire, where
he resided until 1804, when he removed to
Watertown, Jefferson Co., New York."
	Zina Diantha Huntington was born January
31, 1821, at Watertown. Her father was Wil-
liam Huntington, her mother Zina Baker, whose
father was one of the first physicians in New
Hampshire. Her grandmother on the mother's
side was Diantha Dimock, "descended from
the noble family of Dimocks, whose representa-
tives held the hereditary knight-championship
of England; instance, Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion."
	Both the father and mother of Sister Zina
were strict Presbyterians. Of her mother she


says- "She believed God would hear and an-
swer prayer in behalf of the sick." The gift
of healing was with her before the Gospel was
restored in its fulness. This precious gift rests
in a great degree upon her daughters, and Sis-
ter Zina has been one of the most powerfully
gifted in faith of all the women in the Church.
She seems to be specially endowed with this
sacred gift, and in the exercise of it has had
some wonderful manifestations of the power of
God in healing the sick and afflicted. She
has so distinguished herself among the sick
and the sorrowing, that she has gained with
many the appellation of "Zina, the comforter;"
her sympathies are so keen as to enter into the
feelings of those who are suffering, and so ap-
preciate their condition as to render them that
sympathy which is eminently helpful. She is
also a natural nurse; her very touch is indica-
tive of this quality, and her great tenderness
wherever there is trouble, sorrow, or pain, is
thoroughly genuine. She would have been an
eminent woman physician, had she studied the
art, but as it is, with her superior, natural abil-
ity in this direction and the experience she has
gained in her long and useful life among the
sick and distressed of all classes, she has won
distinction beyond many who have gradu-
ated in the science, and her advice and help
are often called for by physicians of skill
and learning.

To be continued.


