VISIT TO SANPETE.

	On Wednesday afternoon, September 14, in
company with Sister E. R. S. Smith, we left the
city, intending to make a tour of a part of San-
pete County. Arriving at Nephi, we were met
and warmly welcomed by Sister Amelia Golds-
brough, who accompanied us to the residence of
President Teasdale. After cordial greetings and
a delicious supper, we repaired to the meeting
house, where it was expected Sister Eliza and
her traveling companion would speak to the peo-
ple. The house was filled about equally with
ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Mary Pitchforth
presided. The meeting was an interesting one,
Sister Eliza occupying a considerable portion of
the time.
	The next morning we left Nephi with Mrs.
Goldsbrough added to our party; our route lay
through Salt Creek Canon. It was a pleasant
season of the year, and the varieties of shrub-
bery, the bright and gorgeous coloring of the
luxuriant foliage, made a charming picture 'mid
the magnificence of the mountain scenery. A
passionate admirer of nature in its wild and
rugged beauty could not but be delighted with
the sublimity and grandeur of these towering
mountains, in their most brilliant and gayest
costumes. It seemed as if they all wore their
holiday attire, and it became them well, very
well indeed, for the sides of the gray, rocky, rug-
ged mountains were profusely bedecked with
the brightest scarlet and yellow.
	At Fountain Green we met our dear and hon-
ored friend, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, who had brought
her own carriage to meet us, and her sister, Mrs. 
E. Bentley, who was on her way to St. George.
We took dinner at the Bishop's, whose hospital-
ity is well known to travelers, and about one
o'clock proceeded towards Moroni, reaching there
sometime before nightfall. Bishop Irons and
his good wife, D[-]borah, were expecting us and
gave us good cheer.
	The next morning early, teams began to come
in from other settlements to attend the Sisters'
Stake Conference, President Petersen and many
others from different settlements. Conference
commenced at ten a. m., Mrs. M. A. Hyde pre-
siding. Reports were read from nearly every
settlement in Sanpete Stake, and many inter-
esting speeches were made during the day. Af-
ter the afternoon session adjourned there was a
Conference of the Primary Associations, Mrs. 
Deborah Irons presiding, and in the evening a
meeting for the young people, Mrs, Larson pre-
siding; all were well attended.
	Saturday morning we went on to Fairview,
where there was a meeting of the P. A. in the
afternoon, Levee T. Terry presiding.
	Sunday morning a large number of wagons
and carriages wended their way towards Indian-
ola. Bishop Spencer, Joseph, Nephi and others
were expeccting our arrival, and met the entire
party with a hearty welcome. There were two
meetings there, and the speeches all had to be

[Column 2]

interpreted, which occupied a little more time.
Sister Mary, a Lamanite woman, Counselor to
the President of the Relief Society, delivered an
eloquent address in a manner which would have
reflected credit upon an educated white woman.
In the afternoon Sister Eliza effected an organ-
ization of the children, which included ten little
Lamanites—the first instance of this kind on
record. She also presented each of them with
one of her Primary Hymn Books. The Indians
manifested the greatest interest in all the pro-
ceedings, and one could not help feeling that the
prophecies concerning this down-trodded race
 were about to be fulfilled.
	Leaving Indanola directly after the close of
the meeting, we returned to Fairview, where
another meeting was held in the evening, the
meeting house crowded to its utmost capacity.
	Monday morning drove to Mt. Pleasant; at
Bro. Peel's we were bounteously entertained.
Meeting commenced at two p. m., Mrs. M. F.
C. Morrison presiding. After this meeting the
two Primary Associations came together at five
o'clock, and it was a very interesting time.
	Tuesday morning we repaired to Spring City,
the home of Sister Hyde. The morning meet-
ing was for the Primary Association, Mrs. Sarah
Ellis presiding. It was during intermission we
received the news of the death of President Gar-
field, which, although judging from the later
telegrams we half expected, yet seemed appall-
ing.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society convened,
Mrs. Mary Frantzen presiding, and in the eve-
ning a meeting of the young people, a crowded
house, Annie Eustaceson presiding. Wednes-
day we went over to Ephraim, where we found
flags at half mast, draped with black, presenting
a sad appearance.
	At Prest. Peterson's we met quite a number
of people, and an elaborate dinner had been pre-
pared, to which all our party and the assembled
guests did ample justice. At two o'clock re-
paired to the meeting house. It was a meeting
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Sarah Peterson pre-
siding, but the brethren attended as well as the
sisters, and seemed as much interested. it was
the harvest time, too, but notwithstanding all
the meetings were well filled.
	At five o'clock the two Primaries met in joint
meeting, and there were a good number of exer-
cises, songs, recitations, dialogues, etc., as there
were, indeed, in all the Associations in the
county. A very great improvement has been
made among the children since these organiza-
tions have been instituted, and the Saints can-
not be too grateful to Sister Eliza for the untiring
interest she has manifested in this department
of her labor in Zion, and truly she has joy in her
labors, in seeing the good results that have al-
ready accrued. What will be after they are
furthur initiated in the work, remains to be
known in the future.
	Thursday morning, accompanied by Prest.
Peterson and several other carriages well loaded
with people, our party went on to Manti; passed
the Temple on our way, which is towering up to
a stupendous height, and went direct to the meet-
ing house, which was already filled with breth-
ren and sisters. Mrs. Rebecca Wareham pre-
sided. In the afternoon the two Primaries held
joint meeting, Mrs. Jane Gasto presiding, Miss
Marian Tennant having charge of the exercises,
which were all well rendered. While in Manti
we visited the Temple, Bro. Fulsom explaining
everything, Sisters Eliza, Goldsbrough, Hyde
Peterson and all going to the very highest point
we could possibly reach. It will be a magnifi-
cent structure, the terraces giving it a much
grander and loftier appearance than if it was
not situated upon an eminence. It is in reality
built into the mountain, and fulfils the Scrip

[Column 3]

ture—the House of the Lord shall be built in
the tops of the mountains.
	At Manti, and also in other places, we heard
of the woollen factory the sisters anticipate
building in that County. It is expected the
sisters of the Relief Society will take shares of
five dollars each, sufficient to amount to ten
thousand dollars, by the next Quarterly Confer-
ence in December. This is quite an undertak-
ing; but really the sisters in Sanpete seem equal
to almost anything, and no doubt they will
build the factory, that is, Sister Eliza says "they
will build it as Solomon did the Temple." At
Brother Wareham's our party enjoyed the time
very much in social conversation, and on Friday
morning reluctantly said goodbye to these dear
friends in Manti, and to Sister Hyde, who had
shown us so much kind attention all the way,
and turned our faces homeward. There was
only on meeting to attend on our way home,
and that was at Fountain Green with the Pri-
mary Association. The children there mani-
fested about the same improvement as in other
places, and altogether one cannot help feeling
that the children of the Saints are growing in
the knowledge of the truth.
	At Nephi we had to part with Sister Golds-
brough, who had been with us constantly, and
to whom we grew more and more attached every
day.
	We arrived at home on the 25th, safe and well,
delighted with our journey. Sister Eliza had
improved in health from the time of leaving
home, and although she had spoken to large au-
diences about twenty times during her absence,
returned refreshed and invigorated.

