WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

"The sages say, Dame Truth delights to dwell,—
Strange mansion!—In the bottom of a well.
Questions are, then, the windlass and the rope
That pull the grave old gentlewoman up."

	In an article republished in Boston, Mass., by
the Woman's Journal, of October 22nd, (a very
ably edited suffrage paper, and a popular advo-
cate of measures to advance the cause of politi-
cal equality for men and women,) there are
many egregieus errors made in regard to woman
suffroge in Utah. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has
been invited to refute them, and we willingly
reply to the Journal. We heartily thank
Mr. Blackwell for the few impartial
words of comment upon the article in question.
	The unknown writer says: "The ballot to
Mormon women in Utah is only another brand
of shame upon their brows." We cannot under-
take to explain the real meaning of the senti-
ment so strongly expressed by the writer. How-
ever, we may be permitted to give our idea of
the potency of the ballot in the hands of Mor-
mon women. It cannot but be apparent to any
logical reasoner, that the women of Utah hold
their political and social destiny largely in their
own hands by means of the franchise; and not-
withstanding the insinuations as to their want
of judgement in exercising this privilege,
they will not be blackguarded into
voting for men to hold office who
have so little respect for honorable wives,
mothers and daughters as to stigmatize them
with names too vile for utterance. Mormon
women, as a class, are eminently qualified to
vote intelligently, that is, to vote for the best
men, and those whom they think most thor-
oughly capable of filling positions of honor and
trust in the interests of the whole people. They
have no disposition whatever to vote for men
who spend their salaries in cigars and whiskey
and other degrading vices, and who would
destroy the very institutions they have
been engaged in founding. Not only
so, but they have learned by bitter expe-
rience what unprincipled rulers will
do, when they have the power. There may
be and possibly are, women here who are igno-
rant of the power vested in the ballot, and who
do not comprehend the right of suffrage proper-
ly; it would be strange indeed if there were not,
as it is a new feature in woman's career; but in
this respect it is only an offset, for there are men,
and men have been citizens of the Republic for
a century and more, who have no true apprecia-
tion of the ballot and who sell their votes to the
highest bidder.
	Ever since the franchise was granted to the
women of Utah, they have labored, through the
systematic organizations that exist throughout
the Territory, to educate both the women and
children of the Territory, to a proper under-
standing of the principles, and executive power

[Column 2]
of the government of the country, and a just
realization of the importance of political equal-
ity. Mormon women not only go to
the polls and vote, but they attend political,
Primary and school meetings in their several
respective districts, and the most perfect liberty
is accorded them for the expression of their
opinions upon subjects connected with the
nominations to be made, or of their views in
securing the most excellent methods of govern-
ment. In almost every district women are
chosen as delegates to the county conventions,
and when assembled in the capacity of
a convention take an active part
in the proceedings, and some are always nomi-
nated upon the several committees that are
called to act in the interest of the whole. Wo-
men also form a part of the Territorial and
County Central Committees. Owing to the un-
fortunately adverse views of the late Governors
of Utah upon woman suffrage, the women of
Utah are not yet entitled to hold any office of
emolument or trust within the gift of the peo-
ple. When Utah has a Governor liberal enough
towards women to sign the bill passed by the
Legislature, to remove the only difficulty now
in the way of their holding office, then there
will be an opportunity to see what the suffrage
has done towards qualifying women to fill
important positions in the Territory, that is if
the people should nominate and cast a ma-
jority of votes for a woman.
	Intelligent, consistent women will naturally
vote for those, who maintain the institutions
which they believe to be for the highest eleva-
tion of the human race. Men who practically
sustain places which degrade and lead astray the
young, ignorant and unwary, must not expect
virtuous, highminded women to vote for them
to fill any office, which would add to their influ-
ence or power. Were they to do this, they
would be aiding in the destruction of the very
government, it is their imperative duty to main-
tain. Mormon women vote for their own highest
interest, and the men who they believe will
best subserve that interest. Would they not be
lacking in wisdom to vote for men who perse-
cute and denounce them, and who are continu-
ally urging upon Congress the necessity of se-
vere measures in dealing with the Mormons,
and calling upon priests and people everywhere
to come to their aid and suppress Mormon insti-
tutions.
	The secret ballot in Utah, of which all may
not be aware, gives every individual full liberty
to vote as he or she pleases, without the know-
ledge of another, so that any undue authority or
compulsion cannot possibly be exercised in
the actual casting of votes.
	As to whether Mormon women are independ-
ent in thought, one only needs to make them-
selves acquainted with facts. They not
only think for themselves, but they are fast be-
coming educated in the intelligent expression of
the views they hold on all subjects.
	The development of mind is strengthened by
expression and interchange of ideas, and through
the complete system of organization which ex-
tends to the most remote towns and villages of
Utah, there is a broad field of expansion for the
capabilities of women. All industrial occupa-
tions are open to woman alike with man.
	In regard to the right of dower, to which the
article alluded to refers, it is only fair to state
that women in Utah are citizens equally with
men; they stand precisely in the same position
as regards property rights, as well as taxes, which
removes the necessity of the right of dower.
Women here have the homestead privilege;
whether married or single they can hold property
in their own name, and are required to pay taxes
in the same proportion as men; they can buy or

[Column 3]
sell and transact business as they like. That is
the best law which provides for the maintenance
of all citizens, instead of favoring a few. The
right of dower, as it is called, would deprive the
plural wife of any privilege in sharing the prop-
erty of her husband, and would debar her chil-
dren from a share of the family estate. And
while the law as it stands is better for all, it is
equally good for the single, individual wife.
This law was approved February 16, 1872, and
the bill must have been signed by the Governor
of the Territory, to make it valid, which Gover-
nor was verily not a Mormon, nor in favor of
Mormon principles. We publish in full the act.

