THE PRIMARY FAIR AT PROVO.

	The Children's Fair of Provo took place
October 15, under the management of Presi-
dent Zina Y. Williams, in the Third Ward
Assembly Rooms. At the commencement hour
the Hall was filled with visitors, and the atten-
dance increased largely during the day.
	Bishop J. E. Booth, delivered a brief
and pleasing address, referring in highly eulo-
gistic terms to the labors of the children. The
speaker said that had the various exhibits been
produced by adults, still they would be credit-
able; they show indeed a bright prospect for
home industry when those children come to
riper years.
	Under the Superintendent's direction, the
exhibition was then declared formally opened.


A specification of any of the varied and in-
deed beautiful exhibits would be an injustice
to some, and hence a very brief outline sketch
must suffice. Four Wards occupied a corner
each, and the Fifth Ward the middle of the
room. Ropes were placed around the room,
from which hung a variety of quilts, of which
we counted upwards of twenty, tidies in as
great a number, and netted, knit and embroid-
ered work, besides a grand display of dress ar-
ticles. Upwards of twenty yards of carpet;
too, were on exhibition, the rags for which
were prepared by boys. Each ward's display
of fancy work consisted of various wax and
woollen flowers and fruit, in globes and on vel-
vet background. Eleven pounds of cocoons,
raised by a girl ten years old, called forth
many eulogies, as, indeed, did the various
wreaths, baskets and seed frames. Specimens
of carving from wood, in form of brackets,
fence models, wagons, etc., also oil paintings,
bottles of homemade wine, a pair of riveted
halters and a variety of garden vegetables are
among the boys' production. The girls' tables
showed an elegant and tempting spread of
eatables, chiefly in the form of pastry and pre-
serves.
	An intermission was announced from 12 m.
to 1 p. m., when visitors were again allowed
to come in and witness what the children had
done. At two o'clock they were called to or-
der by Prest. Williams, and the children sang,
"In our lovely Deseret." One from each ward
then favored the company with a song or reci-
tation.
	Bishop Tanner then made a few pleasing re-
marks, saying he felt gratified to see what had
been done toward improving the minds and
developing the energies of the young, and
wished them to continue to advance in the
good work. Closed by asking God to bless
the children of the Latter-day Saints.
	President Smoot considered the work done
highly commendable, and desired the young to
become acquainted with the arts and sciences
as well as their religion, as that would bring
this kingdom in advance of all others in all
things. He encouraged the officers to continue
in patient labor, and closed by asking the
blessings of God to rest upon all who were in-
terested in the welfare of the children of Zion.
	The Fair continued until nine o'clock in the
evening, to accommodate those who could not
come during the day. The evening was also
interspersed with songs and recitation.
				SARAH E. CLUFF,
	Stake Secretary Utah Primary Association.


