		CONCLUDED.
	Early the same spring, 1880, Sister Eliza
attended the Sisters' Stake Conference in
Tooele City, and immediately after the Stake
Conference of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A and P. A.
in this city. She also attended meetings here
and there in the interest of the various or-
ganizations, and in several of the towns adja-
cent to the city branch organizations were ef-
fected, auxiliary to the parent Silk Associa-
tion, which had been completely reorganized
the same spring. One would think these meet-
ings and regular duties of her position as
Priestess in the House of the Lord were suffi-
cient tax upon the energies of a woman at her
time of life, but during this busy time she pre-
pared the copy for the Children’s Primary
Hymn Book for the press, and in the month
of June the manuscript was all in the hands
of the printers.
	At the time of the Ladies’ Quarterly Con-
ference held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday morning, June 19, Sister Eliza, the
subject of this sketch, was formally elected to
preside over all the organizations of Relief 
Societies in the Church, whether here or
abroad in the world. Prest. John Taylor made
the nomination himself, which was sustained
by a unanimous vote of the Conference. Presi-
dent Taylor then asked her whom she would
choose for her Counselors; she replied, Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
who were then also nominated by Prest. Tay-
lor, and sustained by the vote of the Confer-
ence. Sister Sarah M. Kimball was also
chosen by Sister Eliza to fill the position of
Secretary, and Sister M. Isabella Horne as
Treasurer; these sisters were also nominated
and sustained in the same manner. Sister
Eliza made choice of these sisters to form a
central organization, to work with her in the
interest of Relief Societies. In the afternoon
of the same day Sister Eliza effected a central
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations, and gave much special instruc-
tion to the officers upon the duties of the cen-
tral board of the each of these organizations.
	About the last of June Sister Eliza attended
the Children’s Fair in Farmington, which was
very satisfactory in all respects, and specially
gratifying to one who had organized and
worked so continuously and arduously in the
interest of the little people. Shortly after, in
the month of July, the Children’s Primary
Hymn Book was issued. These books have
been household treasures, causing Sister Eliza’s
memory to live in the hearts of the children,
and her songs will be sung to the latest gener-
ation by the children of Zion.
	On Saturday, July 17, at a meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, President
Taylor ordained Sister E. R. S. Smith to the
office to which she had been elected, saying:
	“Eliza Roxie Snow Smith, I lay my hands
upon thy head in the name of Jesus, and by
authority of the Holy Priesthood I set thee
apart to preside over the Relief Societies of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and I confer upon thee this power and author-
ity and ordain thee to this office, that thou
mayst have power to expound the Scriptures,
and to bless, elevate and strengthen thy
sisters. The Lord is well pleased with
thee, with thy diligence, fidelity,
and zeal in the interest of thy sisters.
He has blessed thee exceedingly, and will con-
tinue to bless thee forever and ever; and I
bless thee with all thine heart can desire in
righteousness, and seal upon thee all former
blessings conferred upon thee by the Holy
Priesthood, in the name of Jesus. Amen.

[Column 2]
	President Taylor also ordained and set apart
her counselors and secretary.
	In August Sister Eliza made a tour through
the whole of Sanpete County, holding about
thirty meetings. She visited Thistle Valley
and assisted the Bishop in organizing a Relief
Society there, with one of the Indian sisters
as Counselor. She was blessed and set apart,
the first Indian woman ordained and set apart
to an office in this dispensation. Sister Eliza
addressed the Indians who were assembled for
some time, and when they were informed she
was the wife of the Prophet Joseph they were
greatly delighted, and all anxious to shake
hands with her and express their joy at seeing
one of the wives of the great Prophet.
	Returning from Sanpete by way of Levan,
Sister Eliza drove a horse and buggy the whole
distance from Fayette to Levan, twenty-six
miles, over the most fearful roads. In Septem-
ber following she attended the Sisters’ Confer-
ence of Sevier Stake at Richfield, and traveled
through that county, holding meetings in each
settlement, often three in one day. In October
she visited several towns in Utah County,
meeting with different organizations of Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions.
	On the 8th of November, Sister Eliza left
Salt Lake City, accompanied by Sister Zina D.
Young, her Counselor, enroute for St. George,
visiting settlements and holding meetings by
the way, organizing and re-organizing the As-
sociations wherever circumstances required.
The people everywhere received them with the
warmest welcome. Arriving at St. George,
they took their abode for the winter at the
residence of Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, who after-
wards accompanied them much in their travels
among the people. Sister Eliza had some con-
siderable work to do for her ancestry and
friends in the Temple, but although she con-
sidered that an important matter, it was not
the only work she felt devolving upon her.
Her desire to aid the living, to counsel and in-
struct the young more especially, and to im-
press upon parents the necessity of stronger
safeguards for the protection of the children
in Zion, prompted her to greater exertions than
any one could have looked for from one of her
years in such unpropitious weather. It seemes
almost incredible, but it is nevertheless true,
that this veteran sister traveled over a thousand
miles, in carriages and wagons, after she ar-
rived at St. George, doing women’s missionary
work among the Saints. Her unwearied exer-
tions to reach the most remote hamlets and
villages, and her endeavors to benefit the sisters
in their respective districts, to strengthen the
hands of the weak and inspire all with a desire
to be useful and improve the talents given
them, were the true interpretation of her high
and holy mission.
	While in St. George, the anniversary of her
birthday was publicly celebrated, and the hon-
ors heaped upon her on that occasion were in
keeping with the beautiful life and magnificent
works of this distinguished Mother in Israel.
Speeches were made, toasts given, songs sung,
music rendered, praises chanted, and addresses
written in poetry and p[-]ose were read, and the
bounties of earth were gratefully partaken of.
All that could be done and said to express es-
teem and love for Sister Eliza seemed to have
been brought about on that occasion.
	On the same day the people of Weber Stake
paid a very delicate tribute to the honored lady
by a similar celebration in Ogden City. There
was nothing wanting to make the party com-
plete but the presence of the lady herself.
But in consideration of the people’s knowledge
of her being three hundred miles away, it
seems to me the highest compliment which
could have been paid her, and the most em-
phatic expression of the niche she filled in the
hearts of the people.

[Column 3]
	Sisters Eliza and Zina returned from St.
George March 31, and were met at the depot
by a party of thirty ladies, who escorted them
to the Lion House. Poems and addressed had
been written for the occasion by some of the
ladies, which were read during the evening.
Sister Eliza, though tired in body, was fresh in
spirit, and responded in a happy manner.
	Reinstated again in her home in the Lion
House, Sister Eliza commenced laboring as
usual in her several callings among the sisters
at home in Zion, and also to prepare another
book for the use of the Primary Associations.
	At the General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the
large Tabernacle in this city, April, 1881, Sis-
ter E. R. Snow Smith was sustained by unani-
mous vote of the Conference as President over
all the Relief Societies in the Church. Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney
were also sustained as her Counselors.
	Sister Eliza has spent the past spring and
summer in visiting the Sisters’ Stake. Confer-
ence, attending annual or special meetings of
Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations in various places. Meantime,
when not engaged in public duties, she was
prepareing the manuscript of her new book,
“Bible Questions and Answers.” In Septem-
ber she visited Sanpete County, and among
other places Indianola, or Thistle Valley.
While therə she organized a Primary Associa-
tion, in which ten little Lamanite children were
enrolled as members, the beginning of a new
work.
	Since returning from Sanpete the book,
“Bible Questions and Answers,” has been is-
sued from the Juvenile Instructor Office, and
is now for sale. It is well calculated to give
the children of the Saints a knowledge of the
Scriptures, and little boys who commit those
answers to memory will be better prepared
with Scriptural arguments when they go out
into the world to preach the Gospel. Although
Sister Eliza has written and published many
books, all in the interest of the Kingdom of
God and for the encouragement and elevation
of the Saints, yet she does not feel she has
done enough, and is now setting about prepar-
ing books for the young which will contain
poems suitable for recitations, dialogues, etc.
	Sister Eliza is never idle; she is always em-
ployed in some labor for the benefit of Zion.
Her voice has been heard bearing testimony to
the truth and instructing the people in almost
every ward and settlement in Israel, and in
many places in foreign lands; her books are in
nearly every home of the Saints, and her songs
are sung in every land where the Gospel has
found its way. Thousands have been blessed
under her hands in the House of the Lord,
and in holy temples. She still lives and con-
tinues her noble work. She is brave, strong
and unflinching in her spirit, and God grant
she may live yet many years to preside as the
Elect Lady in the office to which she has been
appointed and set apart by the servants of
God.
	It would be difficult to find a woman who
has done so much public duty in the interest,
welfare and development of her sex as has the
subject of this sketch. That she has passed
through fiery ordeals none can doubt, but in
the strength of Israel’s God has been able to
say, “Not my will, O Father, but thine be
done.” Such a life needs no comment, but her
works should be recorded for the benefit of the
Saints, and that the daughters of Zion may,
knowing her good works and reading of her
noble life, emulate her wise example and be
stimulated to follow in her footsteps. And
while time shall last Sister Eliza’s songs will
be sung in Zion, and her memory live in the
hearts of the people, and her name be immor-
talized as Zion’s Poetess.
		E. B. W.


