BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Although the Lord had revealed the princi-
ple of Celestial Marriage to Joseph Smith in
an early day, the astounding revelation and
command to proclaim it was not given until
after the Saints had settled in Nauvoo. Jo-
seph put off the dreaded day as long as he
dared. I recollect on a certain Sabbath, pre-
vious to the Apostles' return from Europe, of
hearing my mother and others expressing their
wonder and astonishment at what they had
heard uttered that day by the Prophet, upon
the restoration of all things, etc; His wife as
well as others was quite excited over it. See-
ing the effect that his sermon had upon his
hearers in the afternoon, he consoled them by
saying that the time which he had spoken of
might be further off than he had viewed it; at
all events the Lord would help them and carry
them safely through it, if they were faithful.
	No wonder that this duty weighed so heav-
ily upon his mind, nor that he shouId mani-
fest such anxiety to again behold his breth-
ren, the Apostles, to deliver into their hands
the keys of the kingdom. The great joy
and affection which he manifested at once
more meeting and clasping them by the hand
proved the confidence which he felt in them as
men of God. Those were days of peril, and
the tried and faithful few were I believe, among
the master spirits appointed, or reserved, by the
Almighty to come forth in the day in which
He began to restore the ancient order of His
kingdom, to prepare for the winding up scene.


The humiliation of the Saints only increased
their union. Abuse never injured a cause, and
persecution has never stopped the progress of
this work, but only added fuel to the flame and
attracted the attention of the world, and caused
thousands to join the standard of truth. As
to our religious principles, we have nothing to
disguise, but on the contrary wish them to be
known, that they may be judged of correctly.
   The Latter-day Saints have always been ac-
cused by the world of denying the Old Bible
and substituting a new one, which they were
pleased to call "Joe Smith's Golden Bible." I
will here mention one circumstance: a cousin
who lately paid me a visit from the States,
seemed very much surprised at seeing upon my
table the old family Bible, which happened to
be her Uncle Heber's. I merely speak of this
to show how little the Gentile world know
about us, or can understand the faith and doc-
trines of the people whom they are so ready to
judge.
	Notwithstanding the life of the Prophet was
sought and his enemies were ready to cut him
off, yet he always had some warm-hearted
friends who plead his cause.  The following
extract from a letter written by James Arling-
ton Bennett to the N.Y. Herald, dated Ar-
lington House N.Y., Oct. 16, 1842, concern-
ing the Mormons, I am sure will be read with
interest by the Saints. His words were pro-
phetic:
  "Why should I not be Joseph Smith's friend?
He has done nothing to injure me, nor do I be-
lieve he has done anything to injure ex-Gover-
nor Boggs, of Missouri. The Governor, no
doubt, under strong feelings may have thought
and believed that Smith had preconcerted the
plan for his assassination, but there is no legal
evidence whatever of that fact, none by which
an unprejudiced jury would convict any man;
yet to send this man into Missouri, under the
present requisition, would be an act of great
injustice, as his ruin would be certain. How
could any man, against whom there is a bitter
religious prejudice, escape ruin, being in the
circumstances of Joseph Smith	*	*	*
Look at the history of past ages--see the force
of fanaticism and bigotry in bringing to the
stake some of the best of men; and in all
these cases the persecutors had their pretexts,
as well as in the case of the Mormon chief.	*
*	*	Smith, I conceive, has just as good a
right to establish a church, if he can do it, as
Luther, Calvin, Wesley, Fox, or even King
Henry the Eighth. All these chiefs in religion
had their opponents, and their people their
persecutors.  *    *  Just so it will be with the
Mormons.  They may kill one prophet, and
confine in chains half his followers, but another
will take his place, and the Mormons will still
go ahead.
   "One of their Elders said to me, when con-
versing on this subject, that they were like a
mustard plant -- if you don't disturb it the
seed will fall and multiply; and if you kick it
about you only give the seed more soil, and it
will multiply the more.'
   "Gen. J.C. Bennett has stated that, to con-
quer the Mormon Legion it would require five
to one against them, all things taken into con-
sideration, and that they will die to a man
sooner than give up their Prophet.  Now, is
the arrest of this man worth such a sacrifice
of life as must necessarily follow an open war
with his people? The loss of from one to three
thousand lives will no doubt follow in the at-
tempt to accomplish an object not in the end
worth a button.
   "Persecute them, and you are sure to multi-
ply them.  This is fully proved since the Mis-
souri persecution, as, since that affair they have
increased one hundred fold. It is the best
policy, both of Missouri and Illinois, to let
them alone; for if they are driven farther
west, they may set up an independent govern-
ment, under which they can worship the Al-
mighty as may suit their taste. Indeed, I
would recommend to the Prophet to pull up
stakes and take possession of the Oregon Ter-
ritory in his own right, and establish an inde-
pendent empire. In one hundred years from
this time no nation on earth could conquer such
a people. Let not the history of David be for-
gotten.
   "If the Prophet Joseph would do this, mil-
lions would flock to his standard and join his
cause. He could then make his own laws by
the voice of revelation, and have them executed
like the act of one man.
   "With respect to myself, I would just repeat
that I am the Prophet's friend, and a friend of
his people, merely from sympathy, as my arm
has ever been lifted on the side of the perse-
cuted and oppressed.    *   *    By inserting this
communication, it is presumed that no one will
hold the Herald responsible for the sentiments
it contains; yet I have no doubt that there are
thousands of independent, liberal-minded men
in this country who think as I do.
   "Neither the Mormon Prophet nor his people
can add anything to my fortune or reputation.
I expect nothing from them; they are a poor
and industrious people, and have nothing to
give.  I am influenced in my conduct towards
them by a spirit of benevolence and mercy,
and hope the Governor and State of Illinois
will act in like manner.  It is true, I was com-
missioned in  their Legion, through the instru-
mentality of their enemy, Gen. J.C. Bennet--
an act entirely of their own, without my
agency; but I was as much their friend before
as since. The Missouri persecution fixed my
attention and commiseration on the people.
   "It must be recollected, too, that the Mormon
Prophet and his people are the most ardent
friends and promoters of literature and science.
These are elementary principles in their social
system; and this, certainly, is contrary to every
thing like despotism. I hope, therefore, *  *
that ex-Governor Boggs will withdraw his de-
mand for the Prophet, and let these poor peo-
ple rest in peace. Both he and Governor Car-
lin will feel much more at peace with them-
selves by quashing the whole proceeding."
   The following historical incident of the
Prophet's life, which I distinctly remember,
cannot fail to be of interest to many, particu-
larly the ones who witnessed the scene:
    "Saturday, April 7, 1842, the Nauvoo Legion
was on parade, by virtue of an order of the
25th of January, 1842, and was reviewed by
Lieutenant-General Joseph Smith, who com-
manded through the day. * *  The weather
was very fine. *  *  * In the afternoon the
Legion was divided into cohorts, and fought
an animated sham battle.  At the close of the
parade Gen. Smith delivered a most animating
and appropriate address, in which he remarked
that his soul was never better satisfied than on
this occasion.'  It will be remembered that on
that day Gen. John C. Bennett betrayed his
designs upon the life of the Prophet, by re-
questing him repeatedly to take part in the
sham battle, and even urging him to command
the first cohort in person, without his staff.
   Dr. Bennett's treachery, it seems, was made
known to Joseph by the Spirit, for he said: "If
General Bennett's true feelings towards me are
not made manifest to the world in a very short
time, then it may be possible that the gentle
breathings of that spirit, which whispered me
on parade that there was mischief concealed
in that sham battle, were false.  'Let John C. Ben-
nett answer at the day of judgment--Why did
you request me to command one of the cohorts,
and also to take my position without my staff,
during the sham battle on the 7th of April,
1842, where my life might have been the for-
feit, and no man have known who did the
deed?"
	Shortly after this circumstance, the true
feelings of John C. Bennett were made mani-
fest to the world, as the Prophet had predicted.
According to Joseph's own words, his time had
not yet come; for said he, "I understand my
mission. *  * God Almighty is my shield;
* * I shall not be sacrificed until my time
comes; then I shall be offered freely."
   Dr. John C. Bennett was expelled from the
Church in the following July for unvirtuous
conduct. It was well known that he was a
notorious hypocrite, and by his artful cunning,
under the cloak of religion, deceived and led
captive artless and unwary women.*
   *It should be explained to the reader that James Al-
lington Bennett and Dr. John C. Bennett were not in
the least related, except they bore the same name.
			To be continued.


