REPORTS.

	Minutes of a special meeting of the Manti
R.S. and Y.L.M.I.A., held Sept. 23, 1881,
Mrs. R. Wareham presiding. Singing, "Once,
more we come before our God," &c. Prayer
by Elder James Wareham. Singing. Present
on the stand, Prest. M. A. Hyde and Coun-
selors, of Sanpete Stake Relief Society; also
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith and Sister E.B.
Wells, of Salt Lake City, and Sister Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi, President of the
Relief Society of Juab Stake.
	Sister Hyde was the first speaker; was
pleased to have the privilege of again meeting
with the sisters of Manti; also felt thankful for
the presence of our visiting sisters, and hoped
we were prepared to receive their instructions.
	Sister Wells then addressed the meeting.
Said it is the desire of each and every one of
us to do good as opportunity offers, to minister
to the sick and provide for the poor and needy;
we should not sit and hold our hands like the
fashionable women of the world, when there
are Temples to be erected, and it is highly
necessary that we should assist in their erec-
tion, if we expect to enjoy the privilege of per-
forming a work for ourselves and our dead
after their completion. Spoke very enconrag-
ingly of the labors of the sisters of Sanpete,
and also of the Lamanite sisters of Thistle
Valley. Referred to the great good which had
been accomplished by the Relief Societies, and
exhorted the mothers in regard to the proper
training of their children. Advised the sisters
always to avail themselves of the privilege con-
ferred by the elective franchise; hoped all who
were not legal voters would see the necessity
of becoming so at once. She also advised them
to inform themselves, so as to be able to vote
intelligently.
	Sister Snow Smith felt happy to meet with
the sisters of Manti, and felt thankful to see
so many of the brethren present, as she knew
that they were equally interested with us in
forwarding the work. She wished them to
know how the sisters spent their time in their
meetings, and that they had no time to be
faultfinding and gossiping, of which they were
sometimes accused. Said we should find much
more happiness in improving ourselves and oc-
cupying our time to advantage, than if we
took the opposite course. We are called upon
to make silk, to store grain, to assist the needy
and care for the sick, all of which is outside of
our household duties. We can do all of these
things if we will seek unto the Lord for
strength. Exhorted the sisters to rise and bear
testimony when occasion required it, and they
would be blessed accordingly. We should go
forward and not backward, and our reward
will be in proportion to our works. Urged


[Column 1]
the sisters to be energetic in every worthy en-
terprise. God has done His part, and He now
expects us to do ours, if we expect to realize
the blessings promised to the faithful in the
eternal worlds. Said it was the duty of the
sisters to wash and anoint the sick when re-
quested, and that they should do it with hum-
ble and prayerful hearts. The speaker advised
all the members of the Relief Society, and also
the members of the Young Ladies' Association
to take shares in the Sanpete Factory now in
contemplation. Urged the sisters to be punc-
tual in attending elections, and also to encour-
age their children to attend the meetings of
the Primary Associations, and to strive to keep
out evil influences. Closed by invoking the
blessing of Heaven on the congregation.
	Sister Goldsbrough made a few encouraging
and interesting remarks. Advised the sisters
to learn the laws of our Father in Heaven
and try to keep them.
	Prest. Peterson spoke of the prospective fac-
tory, and encouraged the sisters to take shares,
and spoke of the blessings which would arise
from it, in a temporal point of view. The
speaker considered it one step in the right di-
rection toward becoming a self-sustaining peo-
ple. Choir sang, "My home is there," &c.
Benediction by Bishop Jensen.
			S. A. PARSONS, Acting Sec'y.

