HERE AND THERE.
 On Monday Nov. 7, in company with Sisters
E. R. S. Smith, E. Howard, E. S. Taylor and
Louie Felt we left this city to visit Payson and
other places in Utah County. At Provo we
were joined by Ma Smoot, as she is affectionate-
ly called, the President of Relief Societies in
Utah Stake. We arrived at Payson and spent a
pleasant evening at the hospitable home of
Brother and Sister Douglas. On Tuesday morn-
ing the Relief Society assembled in the meeting
house, Mrs. B. J. Simons presiding. After
singing, prayer and reading of minutes, and a
few remarks by Mrs. Simons, Ma Smoot deliv-
ered an eloquent address upon the develop-
ment and advancement of woman, and plu-
ral marriage, expressed her belief that
these organizations made women bet-
ter mothers, wives and citizens; but
her strong point is Celestial Marriage, upon
which she is theoretically and practically quali-
fied to speak. Sister Eliza touched upon many
topics interestingly and most earnestly, indeed
we have never heard her speak better or more


fervently. Sisters E. Howard, E. B. Taylor, and
others made many excellent remarks upon edu-
cation, literature and the careful training of the
young. Bishop Tanner and Counselor Lant ex-
pressed their desire that the people would put in
practice the good advice which had been given
by the sisters.
	In the afternoon of the same day, the four
Primary Associations of Payson held a conjoint
meeting, over which Sister E. R. S. Smith pre-
sided. The exercises were very entertaining,
and the children, about two hundred and
fifty  in number, all seemed intensely
interested. After the close of the meeting,
the ladies returned to the residence of Mrs.
Douglas where they were sweetly [-]erenaded by
about one hundred little girls. It was an affect-
ing scene and baffles all description.
	The same evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held a
meeting at which Miss Ida Coombs presided.
Tha house was crowded to overflowing. An
interesting feature of the meeting was the read-
ing by the secretary of the manuscript paper
which is edited by the Association entitled “The
Young Lady's Journal.” It is now in the sixth
volume, and is very creditable indeed. We re-
commend this course to all associations, as one
of the best methods for improvment. Mrs. E. S.
Taylor spoke earnestly upon many subjects con-
nected with the advancement of the young, the
reading of good books, the necessity of testi-
mony to all Latter-day Saints and
other subjects of vital importance to those who
expect to do the great work devolving upon the
women of the future. Sisters E. Howard, E. B.
Wells, Louie Felt, E. R. S. Smith and M. T.
Smoot each addressed the audience for a short
time, giving much good counsel and instruction.
Wednesday morning, Sisters Smoot, Howard
and Taylor took the train, the two former for
Provo, Sister Taylor returning home to the city.
The other Sisters rode over to Spanish Fork, and
met with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
Mrs. Mary Ferguson presiding. In the evening
there was a meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A., nu-
merously attended by both sexes, Mrs. Mary J.
Morrison presiding.
	Stirring appeals were made to the young peo-
ple by Sister Eliza and the ladies who accom-
panied her. The young ladies of Spanish Fork
also read a paper called “Young Ladies’ Herald
of Union.” It was very interesting, and we
trust they will continue to improve.
	Thursday, at 11 o'clock, there was a meeting
of the Primary Association, which numbers
nearly 300 children; Miss Mary Ann McLean
presiding. Ater some exercises by the chil-
dren, Sister Eliza, by request of the Bishop,
divided the children into two organizations, with
a president over each, all to be under the presi-
dency of Miss McLean, who has been most
faithful in training them, and to whom the chil-
dren are fondly attached.
	A little change was also made in the Young
Ladies’ Association. They had six Counselors
and a Superintendent. Four of  these Counsel-
ors and the Superintendent were honorably re-
leased from acting; as according to the present
System of organization, which it is necessary
should be uniform, only two counselors are con-
sidered advisable.
	Thursday evening Sister Eliza and party took
the train for Santaquin. Arriving there drove
direct to the meeting house, which
was well filled with brethren and sisters.
It was the meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A., Miss
Mary Ann Openshaw presiding. The minutes 
were excellent and well rendered. Sister Eliza
and the other Sisters addressed the meeting.
Bishop Halladay and Brother Openshaw each
made a few remarks, speaking in terms of praise
of the labors and instructions of the sisters.
	We were all most cordially welcomed to San-
taquin and entertained at the residence of Bro-
ther Stickney, who being a Yankee was delighted
to find his guests all Yankees too. Friday morn-
ing met with the Relief Society, Mrs. E. J.
Stickney presiding. A very good meeting; the
spirit of the Lord resting in great abundance
upon the speakers. Before time to commence
the meeting of the Primary Association in the
afternoon, the children met with their president
and came marching down two by two to escort
the sisters to the meeting house. It was a very
pretty sight indeed.
The meeting was presided over by Miss Zella
Holliday. The exercises were all well rendered
and the children, about 150 in number, kept the
most excellent order. These children are pre-
paring for a fair and exhibition, which is sure to
be a success. The children of Payson held a
fair on Saturday, the 12th inst.
	On Saturday morning we returned home.
Sisters Eliza R. S. S. and Louie Felt were to go-
to Goshen the same day. There are many
other interesting items connected with this tour
that will probably appear in the next issue of
the Exponent.


