R.S., Y.L.M.I.A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
			--
		UTAH STAKE.
			---

	Minutes of the Twelfth Quarterly Confer-
ence of the Relief Societies of Utah County,
held August 25, 1881. Present on the stand,
Prest. Margaret T. Smoot, Coun. Mary John,
Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, etc.; breth-
ren of the priesthood, Bishops Johnson, Tan-
ner and Madsen.
	Meeting opened by the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, after which Sister M. T.
Smoot made a few remarks, and following
Sister Snow Smith's advice, in having the sis-
ters speak first, and the brethren, being the
stronger, to follow, so that it we say anything
that needs correcting it can be corrected. Said
she felt thankful that our lives were spared to
meet together again, while many had been
called to pass behind the vail. Said, I feel
to look up to the Priesthood, but I also love to
hear the sisters speak. In my remarks I have
ever enjoined it upon the sisters to be obedient
to the Priesthood, so they will never conflict.
We have a great work before us; it is continu-
ous, it will never lessen. I do not feel to be
tedious, and do not wish to take up the time.
There are many called, but few  chosen; let us
seek to be among the chosen ones. Let us
work out our salvation, even unto a fullness of
glory, is my prayer.
	Sister Mary John followed with a few ap-
propriate remarks, after which Bishop Tanner
addressed the Conference, saying: I am pleased
in hearing the reports of the societies; the la-
bors that we are engaged in, with the desire to
build up Zion, will tend to give us our reward,
and God will sustain us, and without Him we
can do nothing. Let our light so shine that
all can see it. Let us be a blessing to the poor
and cheer those that are cast down. Jesus
says love your neighbor as yourself. When we
go to help the sick let us go in the name of
Israel's God; and then we will prosper.
	Bishop Madsen said: I have watched with 
interest these societies ever since I became ac-
quainted with them; even the name of Relief
Society is sweet. In times of sickness and dis-
tress can you find a sweeter word than relief?
Can anything be sweeter to the sisters in times
of sickness and trouble than to have sisters
come in to see them, bringing with them the
Spirit of God? and they will be sure to com-
fort and relieve. We should at all times culti-
vate the principles of love and union, and then
you would be always welcome, and the more
strength you will have. I desire to live my
religion, do my duty and be humble before
God, and thus will we be saved.
	Bishop Johnson said: It is through the good-
ness of God that we are enabled to meet to-
gether again. I endorse all that has been
said. Let us attend to our duties and put our
trust in God instead of the doctors and then
the Lord will remove the sickness from our
midst, and not before.
	It was moved that we adjourn until 1:30
p.m. Benediction by Bishop Tanner.
	Afternoon session convened at the time ap-
pointed, most of the time being taken up by
the Presidents with verbal reports of their so-
cieties, each testifying to the faithfulness of
the faithful few.
	Ma Smoot, as she is affectionately designated,
said the sisters have a good excuse for not be
ing at  meeting at this busy season of the year.
I am pleased with o r reports; I would like to
praise the sisters for their good works, for I 
like to be praised sometimes when I do any-
thing that deserves praise. Let us improve
our time, that we may not be too late to enter
the kingdom of God.
	Our aged sister, Mother Duke, made a few
remarks, saying: While listening to Sister
Smoot I have had peculiar feelings. I am
getting along towards the grave; many have
already gone before, some have gone since our
last Conference. Where are their spirits?
They are mingling with those behind the vail;
and we too will soon be there. The founders
of this latter-day work are there; we have as-
sociated with them, they have traversed this
earth without purse or scrip, sometimes with-
out food, to bear their testimony to this gen-
eration; we are their sisters that associated
with them in the eternal worlds, and we shall
meet with them again. I am glad to mingle
my voice with you in telling of the goodness
of God, that the Spirit may flow from one to
another. Your faces shine; the outside world
does not know what we know. We are chil-
dren of the Most High God, and Father takes
care of us.
	Sister L. W. Kimball spoke in the interest
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT; also notified
those present that there were a few more of
those homemade silk handkerchiefs for sale.
Exhorted the sisters to pray for Sister Zina D.
Young and those with her, and added, "May
life, health and peace be your portion, is my
prayer."
	Ma Smoot said: While listening to my sisters
speaking of the goodness of God, and speak-
ing of the laborers, I think with Sister Eliza
R. that the Teachers have the greatest bur-
dens on their shoulders; we often ask for the
prayers of our sisters; if we as societies, or
wards, would make it a matter of prayer for
any particular thing we want, the Lord would
hear our prayers, for He has said where two or
three meet together in my name, there will I
be also. I see many faces here to-day that are
aged, and I feel tender towards them, for I am
one of them myself. Let us pray for one an-
other that we may continue faithful. Amen.
	It was moved that Conference be adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Bishop
Johnson.
