MUSIC.
	What art so speaks to the soul as music?
All love music; it is enshrined in our nature.
Not the cultivated and refined alone, but also
the poor and lowly, all are alike touched by its
soothing powers.  It has a place in our higher
nature, and makes us purer and better by its
presence.  It inspires and elevates, has the
power to make us both sad and cheerful, and
while listening to it all evil thoughts leave us,
and we think only of the pure and beautiful.
It gives us new life, speaks to us of love, friend-
ship, joy, sorrow, rage and despair, all in its
own sweet, emotional language.  It brings re-
finement with it, where it is truly appreciated.
But although we all love music, still we are
not all destined to become musicians, for but
few, comparatively speaking, have the genius.
It is a great mistake with the parents that every
girl must learn to play the piano and sing, for
every  girl is not capable of this, any more than
every girl can become an artist or writer.  'Tis
true we can all learn to go over a few notes
mechanically, but few indeed have the real
soul of music within them.  Few, when they
play, stop to think what tale the author in-
tended to tell; if, by the title, they suppose the
piece to be gay, 'tis rattled off as quickly as
possible,  without giving the slightest thought,
supposing rapid motion to be all that is neces-
sary; but if, from the title, they suppose it to
be sad, it is played so slowly that instead of
being moved to tears, we are simply tired.
	Each piece of music in the author's mind
tells a little tale of its own, just as much as
though it were written in words.  But music
has a language of its own, and must be rightly
interpreted.  Sometimes it is sad, and some-
times cheerful, but like our lives, not all joy
and not all sorrow; here a sunbeam darts over
the piece, then a cloud obscures it.  now a gleam
of hope, and then despair; a dream of love
or sorrow, a reverie - and all should be told as
forcibly by the performer as poets tell their
emotions in beautiful words.  Seeking to play,
or sing, so as to bring out the true soul of the
piece, is the only way to be a successful artist.
We love to hear those most, who play or sing
with most expression, and feel deeply what
they seek to make others feel.
