	ST. JOHN, APACHE, ARIZONA CO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	This far-away place is the home of some of
our sisters, (and some very good ones too)
therefore it should be represented in your col-
umns. There are very good people here, good

[Column 2]

neighbors and kind friends, and I am pleased﻿
to say many are moving out on their city lots,
a little apart from the "outside element" by
which they were before surrounded.
	The inhabitants of St. John (the old town)
consist mostly of Mexicans, consequently their
houses are not calculated to please the eye of a
person used to the neat and tasteful homes in
Utah; and as our people have as yet had only
time enough to build rude shelters from the
elements, we have the better opportunity of
admiring the natural beauties of the country,
which is indeed lovely at this season of the
year. The grass completely covers the hills,
and also the city plot, making good pastures
for the calves close to the houses. Many kinds
of beautiful wild flowers are in bloom—they
seem to be doing their best, making good use
of the time by springing up in every available
place, as if aware that the time will be short
until they will be replaced by our cultivated
garden flowers. A few miles from here, on
the mountain road, the whole country is in
bloom with "morning glories"and"four o' clocks,"
together with many other kinds of flowers,
until it seems a perfect paradise.
	We have a beautiful site for a city, and with
the superior natural advantages and resources
of the country to those we have had in some
parts of Utah, causes me to feel that in a few
years, by the blessing of God, we shall have a
lovely city and prosperous homes.
	The Little Colorado, which a few months
ago was little indeed (as a person could step
across it), and it seemed to those who had
newly arrived a burlesque to call it a river,
has since the rainy season begun, become a
raging, foaming torrent, whose roaring could
be heard at quite a distance. It presented a
grand appearance as it dashed madly over the
rocks, showing how uncontrollable this little
stream could become, not a bad similitude, I
think, to the Kingdom of God, which, though
small at first, shall finally become irresistible
in its onward progress.
	The sisters here seem to be doing the best
they can under the circumstances, and a good
spirit prevails in our meetings. Our President
is Sister Richie, who seems to take a lively in-
terest and to faithfully discharge her duties in
that capacity, aided by her Counselors, Sisters
Ramsey and Tenney—the former well known
to many of the sisters in Utah, for her ability
and skill as a doctress, and the latter a woman
who is loved and respected by all who know
her. All the members seem desirous of per-
forming every duty and requirement, and to
labor unitedly with our Bishop and all the
brethren.
	We were favored last week with a visit from
our Stake President, Sister East, and some
others of the sisters from Snowflake and Tay-
lor. Sister East is well known in your city as
a woman of superior ability and great integ-
rity. She seems highly qualified for her posi-
tion, and gave us some excellent instructions,
as also did the sisters associated with her. Our
Bishop, who was present at our meeting, also
made some very excellent remarks for our in-
struction and encouragement, showing that he
appreciated the labors of the Relief Society,
and the sisters, as well as the brethren, cer-
tainly respect and appreciate the labors of
Bishop D. K. Udell; all seem to feel that he
is the right man in the right place, and his
equal could scarcely be found for the position
which he occupies.		ETKA.


