MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE Iowa Woman Suffrage Association will
hold its tenth annual convention, in Marshall-
town, Nov. 10 and 11, 1881.

	ANNA E. Dickenson is to begin her threatri-
cal tour on the 2d of January, as Hamlet, fol-
lowing that with Claude Melnotte and Mac-
beth.

	MRS. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fer-
guson were just leaving Albany to attend the
congress at Buffalo at date of last letters re-
ceived from them.

	THE Woman Suffrage Society of Polk
County celebrated its eleventh anniversary
by a tea party on the 25th ult. in Des Moines,
at the residence of Mrs. M. J. Coggeshall.

	SUPPOSING all the great points of Atheism
were formed into a kind of creed, I would fain
ask whether it would not require an infinitely
greater measure of faith than any set of arti-
cles which they so violently oppose.—Addison.

	THE ladies are to the fore in the Higher Lo-
cal Examinations. While only sixteen men
presented themselves for the Cambridge Uni-
versity test last June, 866 women above the
age of eighteen years offered themselves at the
centres. Honor to whom honor is due!

	MRS. Hayes, wife of ex-President Hayes,
gave a reception last week at the pleasant resi-
dence of ex-Governor Claflin, Newtonville. It
was of an informal nature, and was well at-
tended by the representative families of New-
ton. It lasted from three till six o'clock. Af-
terward Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Claflin paid a

[Column 2]
visit to John G. Whit[-]ier, at his home in Dan-
vers.—Ex.

	THE ninth annual congress of the Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Women met at
Buffalo, N. Y., on the 19th inst. The attend-
ance was large, delegates being present from
nearly all the cities in the Union. An able
and exhaustive inaugural was delivered by
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. Papers by Mrs.
Mary F. Eastman, on "Factory Girls," and by
Kate Gannet Wells, (all of Boston,) on "Out-
door Occupation," were read.—Ex.

	YOUNG "Coningsby's" future home, into pos-
session of which he will come when he is of
age, is in the meantime to be let for his benefit.
Hughenden will probably fetch a good rent.
Many people would like the honor and glory
of living where the Tory chief lived. Con-
ingsby will thus have another addition made
to the fortune which is to be carefully nursed
for him. It is small enough now, but Lord
Beaconsfield has chosen careful executors, and
when the impassive youth comes of age, he
will probably have quite enough to support the
peerage which it is said the Queen hopes to
give him, and his uncle's party might easily
obtain for him.

	LORD Beaconsfield must have been a joy to
the printers if, as the manuscripts of some of
his early novels seem to show, he was in the
habit of writing on both sides of the paper.
The author of "Vivian Grey" knew how to be
original, even in little things. It appears that
his handwriting was not more legible in his
early than in his later years. How many dis-
tinguished authors have taken a pride in their
caligraphy? Dickens did, and so did Thacke-
ray. The MSS. of "Little Dorrit" and "Mar-
tin Chuzzlewit," which are to be seen at the
South Kensington Museum are models of pen-
manship. Thackeray always wrote a hand
which seemed in keeping with the delicate
fancy and artistic finish of his work. But
there are exceptions, and if any one wants to
know how villianously a great man can scrawl
his ideas, he should look at the handwriting of
Carlyle.


