NO BLACK FOR ME.

"No black for me, dear love, when I am dead;
	Shroud not that precious face in funeral fold,
But wear a soft, white veil upon your head,
	As fits a saintly woman growing old.

"No hlack for me! Why, when eternal day
	Has burst in glory on my dazzled sight,
And God's own angels bear my soul away,
	Should my twin-spirit bow in woc and night!

"So keep the light about you; death is light
	And life and power to pure and chastened love;
And death is only dark to doubt and sight,
	That has no visions from the world above."

	I would like to produce the whole of this
beautiful little poem, but here is sufficient to
prove that the author's mind was inspired with
the light of truth and reason. As the custom
of wearing mourning is becoming so universal
among us as a people, I enroll my name among
its opposers; and as this custom affects women
the most, 'tis to them I appeal. The women
of Utah have been called "the re-modelers of
society," and 'tis true that we aim to adopt all
improvements, so far as they are consistent
with the spirit of true progress, and we are
striving to discourage all customs that have
not a good claim upon sound reason for their
continuance. The Latter-day Saint women
have borne much in attempting to sustain
practically those principles which they knew
to be true, and now cannot we face the ridicule
of Mrs. Grundy, or the scorn of Fashion's vo-
taries, for ignoring a style of dress, grown old
in the service of a world left without the light
of revelation. We claim to have received su-
perior intelligence upon the subject of death,
and draping ourselves in the gloomy folds of
mourning apparel is not in accordance with
the glorious light and hope beyond the grave,
which is given us by the religion of Jesus
Christ. Then, should we cling to this custom
of our forefathers, so suggestive of the dark
ages in which it originated? Let us gather
the light about us; it is when sorrow enters the
heart that we should court cheering influences,
as a young mother very sensibly replied when
asked why she did not wear mourning for her
child: "Because my heart is sad enough with-
out it." It has been truly said that "that grief
is most sincere which shuns observation."

[Column 2]
There is a natural delicacy in the human heart,
especially of sensitive people, which shrinks
from exhibitions of great joy or sorrow, and
such would gladly dispense with all the para-
phernalia of mourning, but have not the cour-
age to disobey the dictates of a long-estab-
lished fashion, and yield even in matters of the
heart. Is not our sorrow as sacred as our love?
Then why display it to the public gaze? The
fact that this custom requires all to wear crape
the same length of time, proves that it does
not serve its purpose; for, while some natures
are naturally more buoyant and hopeful, and
the sooner cease to mourn, and others are more
susceptible to the consoling influence of reli-
gion, yet all must wear the outward signs of
grief, though the spirit may have regained
cheerfulness.
	While I deem it a duty to seek consolation
and happiness from all sources, to place our-
selves in circumstances where we will be under
cheerful and happifying influences, I have
mentally exclaimed, "Consistency, thou art a
jewel!" while watching black dresses, with crape
timmings, waving through the gay dance,
while the smiling faces of the wearers betokened
joy more than grief; and while watching such
persons on pleasure excursions, and at places
of public amusement, the mourning apparel
appeared to me out of season. When one's
feelings will allow the habitual mingling in
gay society, good taste and sincerity would sug-
gest a more suitable costume.
	There appear many good reasons why mourn-
ing should be discountenanced. How often does
it mislead in regard to the true feelings which
it is intended to portray? For instance, one
widow, whose matrimonial experience has been
a scene of conflict, unmarked by affection, or
respect, and, perhaps, while sueing for a divorce,
death kindly releases her before the law; her
neighbor may be also separated from her hus-
band, a congenial, affectionate partner; both
wear mourning, but which is the mourner?
The broken-hearted mother who lays her dear-
est treasure in the grave, and the woman who
cannot grieve when a rich relative, for whom
she has little or no regard, dies and leaves her
money—these walk side by side in similar at-
tire, which is to signify that both are mourners,
while one is far from being such. Am I ex-
travagant? We know such things occur daily.
	Again, the expense and inconvenience of the
custom is another reason for its becoming ob-
solete. Perchance the support of a family is
taken away; to procure mourning they must
either incur debt, or be considered lacking in
respect for the dead. Extra and unnecessary
expenses are thus laid npon the widow's shoul-
ders when she is least able to meet them—ex-
penses which often become an injustice to chil-
dren; for the expenditure for the mourning
outfit is in many instances sufficient to pay for
a year's school tuition for a family. Can the
wife or daughter show respect for the dead by
robing themselves in the deepest mourning,
while the name of the deceased is whispered
hopelessly among his creditors?
	Above all things, don't crush the natural
care-free cheerfulness of children between the
folds of mourning; sad realities will come soon
enough to check their fountain of happiness,
let it flow while it will without restraint. It
may require some effort for parents to abandon
the mourning costume when they have been
taught from childhood to regard it as a neces-
sity in bereavement, but we have come out of
Babylon to rear our children in the light of
direct revelation, and let us keep their minds
free from all traditions and prejudices which
cannot be sustained in harmony with the spirit
of our religion. I know that many noble,
brave women have mourned their dead with
the most acute sense of loss, cherishing their
memory with reverence and affection, while
they wore no outward symbol of the grief

[Column 3]
within. And can any one honor them less for
possessing a delicacy of feeling which could
not be overcome by that monarch, Fashion,
who commands the worship of millions of the
thoughtless, who so willingly lay their consci-
encious scruples, their individvality and power
of self-government before the powerful throne?
	Convenience would suggest retaining the only
part of the mourning apparel of any utility,
the veil, which need not necessarily be black,
nor worn fluttering down the BACK, as the pre-
sent style demands.
	As for ornaments, who ever saw black flow-
ers? Here nature is outraged instead of imi-
tated, and in my opinion to wear them is an
insult to the lovely-hued flowery kingdom, none
of which were ever known to turn perfectly
black, even on the most solemn occasion—the
death of their own kindred.
	Let me here pay a tribute of thanks to one
of our leading ladies, who first appealed to my
reason and aroused thought on this subject.
When but a little girl I listened to her request
in a meeting of the sisters, which was: "Please
let the drapery of my funeral be WHITE; when
my worn and weary spirit has entered its rest,
there will be no occasion to mourn." With
her I say, "No black for me."
								LELIA.
	September 18, 1881.


