DR. FERGUSON'S LETTER.
	COHOES, N. Y., Oct. 24, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Since I left Salt Lake City last August how
often has my heart traveled back to the city
of the Saints, beloved Zion! In carrying out
the purpose and work for which I came East,
my time has principally been spent among the
Gentiles, strangers to the truth and lovers of
pleasure more than lovers of God.  No one
but a Latter-day Saint can realize the com-
plete isolation and loneliness that one can feel
when far from the assemblies of the faithful,
even in the midst of the busy throngs that
crowd the highways of labor and commerce.
When I stepped off the cars here and received
a warm welcome from Sister Clough and
Adey, I felt that the sight of a Latter-day
Saint was as refreshing to my spirit as food
and drink to a hungry and thirsty traveler.
How blessed is the communion of Saints! How
cheerless this world would be without the fel-
lowship of kindred minds, the harmony of will
and purpose that binds together the children
of our Heavenly Father in the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	Perhaps a brief account of my work during
the past two months will not be uninteresting
to some of your readers.  After resting a few
days in New York, and making acquaintance
with those to whom letters of introduction had
been given me, I found that I should have
considerable time on my hands before the
medical schools would open, which might be
advantageously employed in missionary work.
I accordingly made my way to Long Island,
where at Rockville Center I met with a hearty
welcome from Brother and Sister Pettit.  Sis-
ter Zina having left me, in order to visit friends
and relatives in the north, I was at liberty  to 
arrange my plans as seemed most convenient.
	I called on the families of those that had
a name and a standing in the Church.  Most
of them were very glad to talk over the
things of the Kingdom, but they are scattered
abroad like sheep without a shepherd.  While
on the Island I suffered considerably from ma-
laria.  The weather was sultry, thermometer
at 104° to 108'.
  Leaving Long Island, I weent to Hartford,
Conn., where I spent a week very pleasantly,
doing all I could by social intercourse, an-
swering questions and conversation, to pre-
sent a reasonable and correct view of our faith
and practice.  After delivering an address in
Unity Church, at the Memorial Services for
President Garfield , several persons asked me
seriously if it was true that the Mormons had
prayed for President Garfield's death, as the
papers said they did.  This is the character of
nearly all the inquiries made of me- some
question arising out of the falsehoods and mis-
statements of the newspapers.  We cannot
blame the people here for their opinion of us;
they have no means of judging  of us except
by the information they get from the news-
papers, and when the foundation is falsehood,
what must the superstructure be?  I found my
friends in Utica, N. Y., had read the recent
article in Harper's Monthly, "The Mormon
Situation," and were eager to know why we
permitted such a man to live in Utah, who
could write such a tissue of falsehood and scur-
rilous misrepresentation as they were convinced
that was, after reading the "Fruits of Mormon-
ism," whch I had lent them.  I told them the
fact that he did live there in peace, after pub-
lishing such slanders, was a complete refutation
of his whole statement.  The Mormons were
so law-abiding and long-suffering, that the
stings of such a viper excited no resentment.
We left his punishment in the hands of the
God whose work he had despised, and whose
name he had blasphemed. 
  Sister Zina D. Young and myself have just
returned from attending the Woman's Congress
at Buffalo.  It was a gathering of women
whose names stand high in the records of Phi-
lanthropy, Education, Science, and Art--poets,
preachers, writers and workers.  Among those
whose strong individuality impressed itself
most vividly upon the mind stands prominently
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, the President of the
Association for the Advancement of Women,
whose dignity and grace, aesthetic culture and
enthusiastic philanthropy have won for her the
warmest admiration of all who come within the
scope of her influence.  Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney
was evidently a favorite with the audience, and
whenever she arose to speak a murmur of ap-
probation ran through the assembly.  Mrs.
Sara J. A. Spencer, of Washington, personally
and intellectually one of the most brilliant
women of the Convention, and Miss Mary
Eastman, the well-known platform and pulpit
lecturer, who knows more and can say it better
than one half of our average Congressman,
were the recipients of hearty applause from
the audience while discussing their favorite
topics.  Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, the most
successful woman lawyer of the age, whose
strongly marked features clearly indicate the
indomitable energy and perseverance of her
character, with Mrs. Mary Livermore, Mrs.
H. T. Wolcott, Miss Abby May, and others,
formed a galaxy of fair and worthy women,
who would command respect in any commu-
nity.  As we avowed ourselves to be Mormons,
we were not permitted an opportunity of rep-
resenting either ourselves or those whose cause
we had come to plead.  A little bird, whose
place in ornithology has not yet been deter-
mined by naturalists, whispered to me that
the chief objection to our admission as mem-
bers of the A. A. W. was the fact that we as
a people were violating the law of the land.
When I heard this, and looked upon the wo-
men who sat before me, many of whom were
crowned with the silver lilies of seven decades,
memory involuntarily recalled the time, when
these same women in their prime proudly
planted the banner of Freedom for the negro
on the neck of the violated Fugitive Slave
Law. Every advance step in the social, re-
ligious and political progress of our race has
been taken over the debris of broken statutes
and violated laws.  Resistance to and violation
of unjust and oppressive enactments were
the birth-pangs of American Independence,
and the problem of woman's salvation and
exaltation through the principle of Celestial
Marriage will be wrought out under similar
conditions.  The "higher law" under which
the old time abolitionists achieved their great-
est victories has never been repealed- God's 
truth marches not backward, and the trumpet
of His Gospel "shall never call retreat."  The
speeches and essays were good, some of them
excellent.  They contained a plea for the work-
woman and the scholar, the factory girl and
the artist, the Indian and the prostitute, but
for the "brave daughters of the desert," the
women of the New and Everlasting Covenant,
"who make womanhood the synonym for wife"
and crown motherhood with eternal honors,
there was neither place nor voice.  I contrasted
the proceedings of this Congress of Christian
women, who opened and closed their six public
sessions without prayer or thanksgiving, with
our own meetings in Utah, where supplication
for the presence and blessing of our Father
characterizes all our assemblies, and depend-
ence upon His Spirit for wisdom and guidance
is the attitude of every speaker.
	Sisters in Zion, be not weary in well doing,
but be faithful and endure unto the end, and
ye shall receive a crown of life, which the Lord,
the righteous Judge shall give you in that day
when His judgements shall be poured out upon
the wicked and those who obey not His law.


