MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTTS.
			------------
I look'd far back into other years, and lo! in bright
	array,
I saw, as in a dream, the form of ages passed away.
It was a stately convent, with its old and lofty walls,
And gardens, with their broad, green walks, where soft
	the footstep falls;
And o'er the antique dial stones the creeping shadows
	passed,
And all around the noonday sun a drowsy radiance cast
No sound of busy life was heard, save from the cloister
	dim, 
The tinkling of the silver bell, or the sisters' holy hymn.
And there five noble maidens sat, beneath the orchard 
	trees,
In that first budding Spring of youth, when all its pros-
	pects please;
And little rocked they when they sang, or knelt at ves-
	per prayers,
That Scotland knew no prouder names, held none more
	dear than theirs;
And little even the loveliest thought, before the Virgin's
	shrine,
Of royal blood and high descent, from the ancient Stuart
	line;
Calmly her happy days flew on, uncounted in their flight,
And as they flew, they left behind a long, continuing 
	light.

The scene was changed. It was the court--the gay court
	of  Bourbon--
And 'neath a thousand silver lamps a thousand courtiers
	throng,
And proudly kindles Henry's eye, well pleased, I ween
	to see
The land assemble all its wealth of grace and chivalry.
Grey Montmoreney, o'er whose head has passed a storm
	of years,
Strong in himself and children stands, the first among 
	his peers;
And next the Guises, who so well Fame's steepest heights
	assail'd,
And walked Ambition's diamond ridge, where bravest
	hearts have failed;
And higher yet their path shall be, stronger shall wax
	their might,
For before them, Montmoreney's star shall pale its wan-
	ing light;
Here Louis, Prince of Conde, wears his all unconquered
	sword,
With great Coligni by his side--each name a household
	word;
And here walks she of Mediel, that proud Italian line,
The mother of a race of kings, the haughty Catherine;
The forms that follow in her train a glorious sunshine
	make--
A milky way of stars that grace a comet's glittering
	wake.
But fairer far than all the rest who bask on Fortune's 
	tide, 
Effulgent in the light of youth, is she, the new made
	bride.
The homage of a thousand hearts, the fond, deep love of
	one,
The hopes that dance around a life whose charms are but
	begun;
They lighten up her chestnut eye, they mantle o'er her
	cheek;
They sparkle on her open brow, and high-soul joy be- 
	speak.

The scene was changed. It was a barque that slowly
	held its way,
And o'er its lea the coast of France in the light of eve-
	ning lay;
And on its deck a lady sat, who gazed with tearful eyes
Upon the fast receding hills that dim and distant rise.  
No marvel that the lady wept, there was no land on
	earth
She loved like that dear land, although she owed it not
	her birth;
It was her mother's land, the land of childhood and of 
	friends;
It was the land where she had found for all her griefs
	amends;
The land where her dead husband slept, the land where
	she had known
The franquil convent's hushed repose, and the splendors 
	of a throne-
No marvel that the lady wept, it was the land of France
The chosen home of chivalry, the garden of romance.
The past was bright, like those dear hills so far behind
	her barque--
The future, like the gathering night, was ominous and
	dark.
One gaze again, one long, last gaze, "Adieu, fair
	France," cried she;
The breeze come forth, she is alone on the unconscious
	sea.

The scene was changed. It was an eve of raw and surly
	mood,
And in a turret chamber high of ancient Holyrood
Sat Mary, listening to the rain, and sighing with the
	winds,
That seemed to suit the stormy state of men's uncertain
	minds.
The touch of care had blanched her cheek, her smile was
	sadder now,
The weight of royalty had pressed too heavy on her
	brow;
And traitors to her council came, and rebels to the field--
The Stuart sceptre well she sway'd, but the sword she
	could not wield.
She thought of blighted hopes and dreams of yonth’s
	brief day,
And summoned Rizizo with his lute, and bade the min-
	strel play
The songs she loved in early years, the songs of gay Na-
	varre--
The songs, perchance, that erst were sung by gallant
	Chatelur;
They half beguiled her of her cares, and soothed her
	into smiles,
And won her thoughts from bigot zeal and fierce do-
	mestic broils.
But hark! the tramp of armed men, the Douglas battle-
	cry;
They come, they come, and lo! the scowl of Ruthven's
	hollow eye;
And swords are drawn, and daggers gleam, and tears
	and words are vain--
The ruffian's steel is in his heart, the faithful Rizzio's
	slain.
Then Mary Stuart brushed aside the tears that trickling 
	fell
"Now fo rmy father's arm," she cried; "my woman's
	heart, farwell!"

The scene was changed. It was a lake with one small,
	lonely isle;
And there, within the prison walls of its baronial pile,
Stern men stood menacing their Queen, till she should
	stoop to sign
The traitorous scroll that snatched the crown from her
	ancestral line.
"My lords, my lords," the captive said, "were I but
	once more free,
With ten good knights on yonder shore to aid my cause
	and me,
That parchment I would scatter wide to every wind that
	blows,
And once more reign a Stuart Queen o'er my remoreless
	foes."
A red spot burned upon her cheek, streamed her rich
	tresses down;
She wrote the words, she stood erect--a Queen without 
	 a crown.

The scene was changed. A royal host a royal bannor
	bore,
And the faithful of the land stood round their smiling
	Queen once more;
She stayed her steed upon a hill, who saw them march
	ing by,
She heard their shouts, she read success in every flashing
	eye.
The tumult of the strife begins, it roars, it dies away;
And Mary's troops and banners now, and courtiers,
	where are they?
Scattered and strewn and flying far, defenceless and un-
	done--
O God! to think what she has lost, and think what guilt
	has won.
Away, away! thy galiant steed must act no laggard
	part,
Yet vain thy speed, for thou dost bear the arrow in thine
	heart.

The scene was changed. Beside the block a sullen
	headsman stood,
And gleamed the broad axe in his hand, that soon must
	drip with blood.
With slow and steady step there came a lady through
	the hall,
And breathless silence chained the lips and touched the
	hearts of all;
Rich were the sable rocks she wore, her white veil round
	her fell,
And from her neck there hung the cross; the cross she
	loved so well.
I knew that queenly form again, though blighted was
	its bloom;
I saw that grief had decked it out, an offering for the 
	tomb;
I knew the eye, though faint its light, that once so
	brightly shone,
I knew the voice, though feeble now, that thrilled with
	every tone;
I knew the ringlets, almost grey, once threads of living
	gold;
I knew that bounding grace of step, that symmetry of
	mould.
Even now I see her far away, in that calm convent aisle,
I hear her chant her vesper hymn, I mark her holy smile;
Even now I see her bursting forth upon her bridal morn,
A new star in the firmament, to light and glory born.
Alas! the change - she placed her foot upon a triple
	throne,
And on the scaffold now she stands, beside the block,
	alone;
The little dog that licks her hands, the last of all the
	crowd
Who sunned themselves beneath her glance and round
	her footsteps bowed.
Her neck is bared, the blow is struck, the soul has passed
	away;
The bright, the beautiful is now a bleeding piece of clay.
The dog is moaning piteously, and, as it gurgles o'er,
Laps the warm blood that trickling fell, unheeded, to
	the floor;--
The blood of beauty, wealth and power, the heart blood
	of a queen,
The noblest of the Stuart race, the fairest earth has seen,
Lapped by a dog! Go, think of it in silence and alone,
And weigh against a grain of sand the splendors of a
	throne.
								-SELECTED.
			----------------------------------


WOMAN IN TURKEY.--The Turkish woman
is marriageble at the age of nine years, and, by
Turkish law, at that age, if married, she is
sompetent to manage her property and dispose
of one-third of her fortune.  The law allows
her to abandon her husband's house for a just
cause, and will protect her in so doing.  She
cannot be compelled to labor for the support
of her husband.  On the contrary, he is com-
pelled to support her; and it is a penal offence
to insult or ill-treat her.  Should he not fur-
nish her with funds, she is authorized to borrow
in his name and even sell his property. After
marriage she has the absolute control of her
own property, which he cannot touch.


