JOKERS AND JOKING.

	This is not intended to be a funny article, as
one might infer by the title. It is designed to
be a serious aspect of what is almost univer-
sally conceded to be a humorous theme. Dif-
ferent people have different ways of amusing
themselves. A similarity of tastes, or a con-
geniality of spirits, begets a similarity of en-
joyment. Thus a refined inhabitant of the
Fiji Islands finds his ideal bliss in picking the
bones of some fellow cannibal who has been
captured in war, and who, by virtue of being
captured, becomes a legitimate basis of a can-
nibalistic banquet. If there be in the mind of
this elevated specimen of humanity an enjoy-
ment more beatific, it is when the Fiji Island-
ers' providence puts in his way some unwary,
but rotund and corpulent missionary, whose
well-filled limbs sizzling over a fire fill the air
with music that delights the cannibalistic ears,
and fills the air with an odor grateful to his
enlarged and distended olfactories. It was a
custom some years ago—and may be yet—to
furnish Parisian children of wealth with small
feathered biped, in order that these innocent
darlings—bless their souls!—might find pure
and heavenly enjoyment in pulling the poor
and harmless little birds to pieces. In the
palmy days of Rome, it was the delight of the
refined classes, as well as of the populace, to
witness mortal combats between gladiators, or
to see unarmed Christians battle with and be
torn to pieces by ferocious wild beasts; and
rare indeed were the instances in which the

[Column 2]
soft and timid ladies—who witnessed these fear-
ful and bloody spectacles with undisturbed se-
rentity—would raise their thumbs to the suc-
cessful combatant as a sign bespeaking mercy
for the poor, bleeding and mangled form of an
unwilliug victim to the sanctified pleasures of
that great nation.
	But coming down to our own times—the
flower of 1800 years of civilization—and we
do not find it so vastly different. If our plays
are tragedies, it affords us pleasure to be mo-
mentarily lost in the contemplation of some
realistic imitation of terrible human suffering
and wickedness; and while it awakens sympa-
thy for the unfortunate, the more it resembles
life, whether that which is attempted to be por-
trayed be bloody or brutal, the more we enjoy
it and the greater praise is bestowed upon the
individual who, for the time being, has the
power of subjugating the senses of his audience,
and forces them to entertain a deception. I
am not deprecating tragedies, nor dramas, for
I am an enthusiastic admirer of the stage; nor
do I wish to intimate that there is not profit
and sensible pleasure in theatrical exhibitions,
but I do wish to show that, however unwilling
we might be to see in life such horrible deeds
as are hinted at on the stage, nevertheless, the
very possibility of their realism and of their
bloodiness fills the mind with an irresistible
fascination, which is felt with greater keenness
the more intellectual and refined the auditor.
In other words, we are interested, pleased de-
lighted—often ecstatically—in the exhibition
of supreme human suffering. And this is one
of our most refined enjoyments. The Romans
delighted to see the tragedies executed in fact;
we are delighted to see them hinted at, and
the more we are deceived into believing them
real, the more appreciative, or amused, we be-
come.
	Again, in the comedy, or farce, extravagant
as it seems—where buffoonery and clownish-
ness are not the provokers of mirth—we enjoy
ourselves at the supposed expense of some un-
lucky wight, whose adverse fortune, while it is
highly ludicrous to those not surrounded by
his unfortunate circumstances, places him in
the most trying predicament, and causes him
not only mental anxiety, but too often absolute
bodily suffering. And yet it is amusing to us.
The more he appears to suffer the more ground
we find for laughter.
	It may be asked, and with justice, what all
this has to do with "Jokers and Joking." It
has just this much to do with it. The history
of the world—mind you, I do not claim there
are no exceptions—proves beyond the possi-
bility of a doubt, that what is and has always
been considered the most innocent of human
pastimes, is a relic of a bloodthirsty and bar-
baric spirit. Our greatest intellectual treats
are founded upon the most intense and realistic
representations of profound human sorrow;
and the light, airy and innocent laugh is, nine
times out of ten, perhaps ninety-nine times out
of a hundred, created at the expense of one
who suffers for it. The joke, whether practical
or not, is unequivocally a synonym for the dis-
comforture of the one on whom it is perpe-
trated. It has its phases—it may be mild; it
may be severe; it may even, if retaliation ever
is right, be well meant; but it is always, if
successful, provoked by placing a fellow-being
at a disadvantage, by making him a victim, a
butt, a ludicrous spectacle in the eyes of those
with whom he is acquainted in person or by
reputation. The spirit which, in the days of
Roman ascendancy, relished sights of human
butchery, the spirit which, in recent times,
would give a helpless bird to a heartless and
thoughtless child to be plucked to pieces, in
order that the diminutive specimen of human-
ity may be amused and entertained; the spirit
which incites thousands to go to hangings, and
to visit the scenes of human suffering, is the


same spirit which delights in witnessing trage-
dies well played, which laughs at comedies well
presented, and which can smile at the discom-
fiture of a fellow-being because some kind and
charitable individual has had the power to
make him, or some act of his, appear ludicrous
in the eyes of others. It is the same spirit,
though in a milder form; but, in view of the
boasted enlightenment of the age, is no more
charitable than were the performances of the
bloodthirsty Roman populace.
	It is true, there are times when an innocent
laugh may be created, but the very element of
a joke is something vicious, and the best evi-
dence that what I say is true can be found in
each heart. Persons for whom we cherish a
deep and abiding love or friendship, are per-
sons for whose feelings, unless instigated to
momentary retaliation, we entertain the utmost
consideration, and scarcely any sacrifice of
light desires is too great for such persons. We
would do nothing to annoy them. But it is an
individual for whom we have little or no friend-
ship, for whom, perhaps, we cherish a dislike–
founded on good reasons, it may be; how sel-
dom have we the forbearance, the consideration,
the charity, to forego an opportunity of belit-
tling such an individual. Not for a world 
would we inflict bodily pain; but with a sort
of fiendish delight we hold the object of our 
dislike up to ridicule, caring little or nothing
how deeply a sensitive organization be wounded;
and how ten times worse than blows would be
is the punishment we inflict, just by way of a
joke. That's all.
	Heaven save me from a joker! He is
vicious; he is not filled with a truly Christian
spirit; he cannot be refined, or he would know
how easy it is to wound a sensitive organiza-
tion, and lest some one might feel justified in
inflicting the torture on him: he would be care-
ful how he did or said that which might grieve
others. The joker is a tyrant, a boor, and
should be abolished. He is entitled to no
mercy, for he shows none; he brings with him
only a vicious spirit, which he has not the
power to control nor the sense to treat wisely.
