CONVERSATION.

	Conversation is a great art, and one in which
few excel. It is an accomplishment which
every one should try to acquire. Few people
study this art, and many think it is not neces-
sary, simply because they are great talkers—
great talkers in one sense of the phrase, but
small talkers in another. Good conversation
does not depend on the number of words, but
on the choice thereof. How often have I spent
an evening among my friends, pretty, bright,
intelligent young ladies and promising young
men, and never heard one single sentence ut-
tered that manifested thought, or edified one
in the least, and from these same little socia-
bles have returned home thinking what a 
worthless evening I had spent, listening to and
talking a host of nothings.
	I think it is a duly every one owes to him-
self and to society to make a study of conver-
sation. It is as true an art as painting, or
music, and it includes all the arts, for one who
is a perfect conversationalist has to understand
them all, so as to speak intelligently about
them.
	During Napoleon's life, the ladies of his
court were especially noted for their brilliant
conversational powers, and none more so than
the fair Empress herself; even when the wife
of Beauharnais, her home was the rendezvous
of politicians and men of letters, and never
was court society more brilliant than under her
sway. She encouraged all the arts and sciences
to a great extent, and excelled in them herself,
but in none did she display so much excellence
as in conversation.
	Among the most noted of her sex for this
power, perhaps the greatest, is Madam De
Stael, even as a child she displayed wonderful
talent in that direction. Her father's home

[Column 2]

was a place where assembled the greatest and
most learned of men, and all, even old, gray-
headed men, used to hover round this little
prodigy, and listen to her arguments and wit
with the deepest interest; she was but eleven
when she entertained her father's guests in this
manner. At the age of twenty she had gained
a great reputation as a wit, and she always
during her life, not only in Paris, but also in
foreign countries, was surrounded by an admir-
ing throng of the literati; she was singularly
eloquent, and her conversation was brilliant in
the extreme. This woman brought into society
in a most philosophical manner the history of
art, literature, manners, genius and national
taste. The French, as a people, have always
excelled in conversation, and their women es-
pecially have been noted for their brilliant ac-
quirements. Yet the Americans are not far in
the lurch, and noteworthy among them may
be mentioned Margaret Fuller. In her girl-
hood her zeal for good literature was most re-
markable. Her facilities for reading were
good, and she was surrounded by a circle of
highly cultivated young people, therefore, as
might be expected, she became a highly cul-
tured conversationalist. Though she did not,
perhaps, possess the natural abilities for con-
versation to so great an extent as Madam De
Stael, yet she cultivated that art to its highest
attainment. She gained high intellectual
reputation, for she was a great student. She
not only loved the art of conversation for her-
self, but also wished to instruct others in that
direction, and for this purpose she instituted a
remarkable conversational class, which stimu-
lated the minds of the more cultivated women
of Boston, her native city, and even now some
leaders of thought date back their first enlight-
enment to her, and wish their daughters might
have such guidance.
	Utah may still produce a Margaret Fuller,
perhaps it has; but few, comparatively, are the
young people here who interest themselves suf-
ficiently in the art of conversation to entertain
and edify those with whom they converse, even
upon interesting topics. I am sorry to have
to acknowledge that there is too much gossip
existing in society here, and would advise that
this be discountenanced, and the study of the
true conversational powers be instituted in its
stead. I am sure there is plenty of natural
ability, all that is lacking is the adaptability.
Our Young Ladies' Associations might be a
place where true conversation could be in-
dulged in to a great advantage. The President
could perform the part of a Margaret Fuller,
by choosing the subject and conducting the
conversation. All things that tend to elevate
the mind are in themselves religious, and the
principles of the Gospel certainly include all
high and worthy subjects; through proper con-
versation judiciously managed we might make
ourselves familiar with all the principles of our
religion, and combine with them the highest
thoughts of the most eminent men and women
of all ages.	ANNIE.


[Column 1]

