EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend—Had I had the pleasure of a
visit from you, I should not have to explain
"the wherefor and why" that my little article,
"The City of the Saints," remains unfinished
in the EXPONENT; for verily 'tis a favorite
subject with me, and shall yet receive a finale,
D. V. I never ask pardon of my friends for
being somewhat egotistical, as it always appears
to cast a doubt upon their affection for me;
judging them from myself, I come to this con-
clusion: my friends' joys and sorrows, health
and sickness, and, indeed, all their affairs I am
interested in, and when they speak of them-
selves my heart, brain, eyes and ears compose
a loving audience, and I feel they pay me a
compliment.
	After this prelude I will say, for the last
three months I have experienced an entire
prostration, mentally and physically, of vital
strength, and nothing but the Spirit of God
and my own will kept me from giving up much
that I felt was my imperative duty to do; so I
have been nursing myself, waiting and hoping.
I have let my mind, my heart and my brain
"lay fallow," as the wise husbandman does oc-
casionally portions of his land that calls for
such repose; I have allowed neither the plow,
nor the harrow, nor the roll to pass over them,
nor seed to be thrown into them; they have
been open to the pure air of heaven, its rain,
and dew, and sunshine; the thunder and the
lightning have rolled over them, and made the
atmosphere pure and healthy. In this state
they have lain in a glorious inertia! Will
they again rise up invigorated with health,
and strength, and vigor, and bring forth fruit?

[Column 2]
I feel very passive about it; I look at my pen
and soliloquise: Thou dear little siren, how
thou hast blest me! e'en from my childhood's
days thy little plume has wafted me in golden
visions, been the portrayer of my soul, in which
I have seen myself as in a mirror! By thine
aid I have held sweet communion with the
pure and good, the intelligent, the kind, the
loving, the true and faithful, even unto death!
As I write, the desire comes back to
wield again this little weapon, which, in the
hands of the magnates of the ages, has been,
and is, and will be far mightier than the sword!
	How this little instrument has blest me! and
many tell me I have blest them by it. And
then I yearn to still have the power to bless
myself in blessing others. These thoughts
cause my eyes to naturally turn upward, and
their silent language to the Great Physician is—
touch my heart and brain with a coal from off
thine eternal altar, where burns the fire of
Eternal Love! Arouse the dormant spirit; as a
harp is struck by the hand of the master and
responds to his touch, give me power to strike
chords that shall vibrate in the hearts of all
my readers. I desire not that ephemeral thing
called fame, I was not organized for it; I desire
but to live in the hearts of my brethren and
sisters in time and all eternity.
	Your last issue of the EXPONENT pleased
me much. The article on "good reading"
should be reduced to practice by all. "Simple
Simon" is surely a wise man! How truthful
his words and comprehension of matters that
have come under the ban of prohibition, sim-
ply because the subject has not been investi-
gated with an unprejudiced mind. Surely we,
as Saints that have suffered, and daily suffer
from this sort of judgement, and verdict without
the Court, should suspend our judgment until
we can say positively, this is good, and that is
evil. But surely the names alone of Scott,
Bulwer, Dickens (whose weird and pathetic
pictures of the poor of London called forth an
Act of Parliament for ameliorating their con-
dition), George Elliot, Elizabeth Browning,
and a host of others, will establish the fact,
that a community will be enlightened and
benefitted by the perusal of such works.—But
I am writing a letter, not an article. I see
you have two new contributors— that is good;
tell them to ever take Excelsior for their motto.
	My best wishes are for you and our unique
little paper; may we soon see an enlarged edi-
tion, which many are looking for and may I
be enabled to cast my mite into the treasury of
mental wealth of the EXPONENT, is the desire
of your correspondent,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 23, 1881.


