DEAR AUNT EM:—
	I want to give you a brief account of a
short but very interesting visit which I lately
made to Spanish Fork, in company with my
husband's mother, Mrs. Sarah G. Richards.
It was known that we contemplated visiting
that place, to see our dear old friend, Sister
Gwynn Morgan Lewis, now in her eighty-third
year; we were therefore solicited to be there
on Monday, October 17, and attend a joint
annual meeting of the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Association. We were pleased to com-
ply, and accordingly took the two o'clock
Southern train Sunday afternoon. The little
three and a half hour ride was a very enjoy-
able one to me. Passing the "Point of the
Mountain, and looking westward at the ponds
and springs, and what I could see of Porter
Rockwell's old place, many recollections and
reflections passed through my mind.


[Column 1]
	I remembered of riding over those grounds
more than twenty-three years ago. It was
Sunday then, it was Sunday now; but it was
morning and Springtime then, now it was after-
noon and Autumn; I was then a child, who
am now nearing middle age; I rode with my
mother that day, it was my husband's mother
by whose side I now sat; "meat horses," (as our
little boys have it) carried us forward then,
now we were drawn by the power, the wonder-
ful power of steam. That old place had been
my home for two years, when the call of 1858
for everybody to move south, caused my fa-
ther to vacate the premises. Then it was that
Sunday morning, April 5, my brother-in-law
took my mother and her two youngest children
then living, myself and little brother, to his
home in Provo City.
	How well I remember my childish thoughts
and feelings that Sunday morning. I was nine
years old—quite old enough to have distinct
ideas of many things. I thought of my ram-
blings about over those hills and rocks, and
through the sagebrush with my brothers and
sisters, and wondered if we should never come
back to walk there any more. And a still
more serious feeling was also present with me—
my baby brother was sleeping there; at least,
the lovely little form which they had boxed up
and buried in such a deep, deep place in the
ground! We were going to leave that little
grave by the house all alone! Would the
good angels be sure to remember and see that
no harm should come to it? What was death?
Should I like to die and leave my dear, loving
parents and friends? No! I remember of
thinking that I should not like to die, even for
the sake of seeing my two baby brothers, of
both of whom I thought with the tenderest
love and solicitation.
	All these memories, and many more, passed
vividly through my mind the other day, while
we were half circling around the old place I
have mentioned. Then followed a long train
of thoughts upon the resurrection and kindred
topics.
	Brother and Sister Cornaby, whose acquain-
tance we happily formed during the late Gen-
eral Conference, gave us so warm and cheer-
ing a welcome to their home in Spanish Fork,
that if the latter portion of our journey had
seemed somewhat chilly, all its unpleasantness
was soon forgotten.
	Being quite fatigued, mother remained with
Sister Cornaby that night, and, in fact, during
most of the time of our stay in the settlement.
But after supper, kindly conducted by Brother
Cornaby, I went to find the special object of
our visit, "Sister Morgan." Here I found an-
other hearty welcome awaited me, not only
from the dear old lady herself, but also from
her family connections. Brother and Sister
Lewis, and later several of their sons and
daughters, all of whom seem to be happily
married and engaged in the laudable enter-
prise of raising fine Latter-day Saint families.
	The next morning Sister Morgan went with
me to see mother, and we spent a very pleasant
forenoon with Sister Cornaby. Of this estim-
able lady and her husband I will say, they
need but to be known to be appreciated by
those who can appreciate true worth of char-
acter.
	After dinner, Sister Mary Ann M'Lean
came to escort us to the meeting house, where
the joint meeting was to commence at two
o'clock p. m. This dear young woman seems
to have a full share of public responsibilities
apportioned to her, she being Secretary of the
Relief Society, of which Sister Mary Ferguson
is President, Counselor to Sister Morrison, who
presides over the organization of young ladies,
and President of the Primary Association.
She also teaches their district school. All
these positions I believe she fills with great
satisfaction to her friends and co-workers, if
not always to herself.

[Column 2]
	At the meeting house we greeted and were
greeted in turn by many friends, including
"Ma Smoot" and Sister John, from Provo.
These sisters, holding the presidency of the
Stake organization of the Relief Society, gave
much good instruction to their sisters in Span-
ish Fork. Sister Thurber, from the South,
was also present, and gave a very interesting
address. Sister Rhoda Snell, the veteran silk
raiser of Spanish Fork, and President of the
Silk Association in that place, made an excel-
lent speech in favor of home manufacture. I
was most interested with the children, and
talked to them and of them most; not only be-
cause I was requested to do so, but because the
spirit so directed me.
	Mother felt too feeble to address the con-
gregation, but before meeting opened, I
heard her relate a circumstance, which
seemed to me so beautiful, in connection with
the children's meetings, that I thought it wor-
thy of being remembered and recorded.
	She said that more than thirty years ago
the children of the Latter-day Saints used
to have their little meetings, and sing and
pray and bear testimony, and sometimes they
would give blessings and speak in tongues and
prophesy. She was at one of these meetings
with her little son, then a baby. Sister Ellen
Rockwood conducted the meeting and inter-
preted for those children who spoke in tongues.
President Joseph Young, who presided so long
over the Seventies, was there, and the chil-
dren placed their hands upon his head and
blest him, and he wept for joy. They also
blest the babe which mother had taken to their
meeting, and said he should become a man of
great faith and wisdom in Israel, and should
go to his mother's country and there proclaim
the glad tidings of the Gospel of salvation;
which has been literally fulfilled.
	After meeting, all the visitors, and quite a
number besides, were invited to Sister Fergu-
son's, where we partook of an excellent supper.
	The people of Spanish Fork live well, and
well they may. Most bountiful harvests of
grain, fruit and honey have this year crowned
their labors. More than three thousand dol-
lars' worth of dried fruit, we were informed,
has been purchased of individuals by their co-
operative store.
	Another meeting was held in the evening,
under the auspices of the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association, to which all,
young and old were invited. In this meeting
I think all enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord, and
rejoiced in the determination to serve Him
henceforth with all diligence. The testimonies,
the exhortations and the instructions given all
tended to show that the speakers felt well in
their religion, and were calculated to make
their hearers feel the same.
	Mother and I returned home by the half
past six train Tuesday morning, thankful for
the many blessings which had attended us, and
for the many kind evidences that our visit to
Spanish Fork had not been a fruitless mission.


