WRITING:

	The art of writing is very ancient, and it is
interesting to note the various improvements
that have been made from time to time. It is
supposed by some that in the Bible is recorded
the first instance, Ex., 17th chap., 14th verse:
"And the Lord said unto Moses, 'Write this
for a memorial in a book.'" And also, Ex.,
24th chap.: "And Moses wrote all the words
of the Lord." But Moroni, in the Book of
Mormon, gives an account of the people of Ja-
red, which he copied "from the twenty and
four plates which were found by the people of
Limhi, which is called the Book of Ether."
The first part of the record "speaks concern-
ing the creation of the world, and also of Adam,
and an account from that time even to the
great tower." (Page 516.) The records also
give an account of the people from the tower
till they were destroyed, about 600 years B. C.
The writer of the record was Ether, a descend-
ant of Jared, who came from the tower of
Babel with his brother and others. Jesus
Christ appeared to the brother of Jared, and
told him to write and seal the things he saw
and heard: "And the Lord said unto him, write
these things and seal them up, and I will show
them in mine own due time unto the children
of men."
	This interview took place a few years after
leaving the tower, which they left at the time
the language was confounded, about 2447 years
B. C., and 426 years before Abraham died;
consequently, the brother of Jared probably
wrote 676 years before Moses, as we do not

[Column 2]
know how long it was after leaving the tower
that Jared's brother wrote, or how old Moses
was when he wrote.
	I suppose the next piece of ancient writing
is The Book of Abraham, purporting to have
been written by his own hand on papyrus, and
translated by Joseph Smith; it was found in
the Catacombs of Egypt. Abraham died 1821
years B. C., and Moses was born 1571 years
B. C., so the former must have written at least
250 years prior to the latter.
	The records of the Nephites were engraved
on plates which had the appearance of gold,
and were hid about A. D. 420; the Lamanites,
the present Indians, were quite degraded then,
and if they practised the art at that time, no
doubt lost it soon afterwards.
	The pen is mentioned in the Bible several
times: once in Job, xix, 23, 24: "Oh, that my
words were now written! oh, that they were
printed in a book! That they were graven
with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever!"
	Many different materials have been used to
write upon; the Egyptians prepared a rush
called papyrus; they wrote upon it with reeds.
Upon waxen tablets they used an iron style.
	Quills were in general use before the inven-
tion of the steel pen, in 1825, by Mr. James
Perry, of Manchester, England.
	Vellum is yet used for writing deeds upon.
Paper made of linen rags was used in England
in 1417.
	Books were scarce till printing was invented.
The first printed book was published in 1462,
and the first newspaper was printed in London
in 1622.
	By writing our thoughts, actions and discov-
eries are committed to paper and preserved for
the benefit of future ages. Had it not been
for this art, our knowledge of the history of
the world would be very meagre and not at all
reliable, as it would be impossible to rehearse
a circumstance from generation to generation
and keep it correct; whereas, a written copy of
a statement would be as coreect in future ages
as at the time of writing.
	Writing is an art that has the direct appro-
bation of Heaven, from being practised by
heavenly beings, for the tables containing the
Ten Commandments were made by God, "and
the writing was the writing of God graven
upon the tables;" and in the 8th chapter of St.
John we read: "But Jesus stooped down, and
with His finger wrote on the ground, as though
He heard them not." "And again He stooped
down and wrote on the ground."
