[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Helen | Author: Artist]
Be sure to ease lace as you sew around, making a couple of tiny pleats c LS \ 7; y da L\ Shaki}: Helen H. Allen—Historian and Needlecraft Artist f ELEN Hunsaker Allen, Tremonton, Utah, is never idle. Her lovely handwork represents varied skills which have been developed to a high degree. She has made hundreds of embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles, as well as quilts, stoles, baby shawls and bootees, tablecloths, bedspreads, and beaded purses. She has prepared eleven Books of Remembrance for her immediate family, and has gathered sketches of forty-three members of the original Abraham Hunsaker family, together with family photographs and genealogical information, making possible the publication of the Hunsaker family history. Mrs. Allen has been active in Relief Society for more than half a century. She was a counselor in the first Relief Society organization in Tremonton, and later served as organist for twenty-five years. She is still an active member and subscriber to the Magazine, at the age of eighty-five. She is the mother of six children, and has twentyfour grandchildren, fifty-four great-grandchildren, and five great-great-grandchildren. Page 522 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Field' in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Clara J. Sumsion SPRINGVILLE STAKE (UTAH), THIRD WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 13, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Olea Sargent, accompanist; Beulah Whiting; Clara Boyer; Marie Whiting; Henrietta Nelson; Eva Hone; Donna Packard. Back row, standing, left to right: Doris Elmer, chorister; Philda Finley; Lucille Johnson; Bonita Corry; Olive Kartchner; Betty Diamond; Irma Brailsford; Judy Tucker; Marie Webb. These sisters presented the music for the Relief Society anniversary party in March, and also for a sacrament meeting in April. Clara J. Sumsion is president of Springville Stake Relief Society. Page 523 524 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 GOODING STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME SECOND WARD HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION Left to right: Arsula Olsen and Flavia Smith. Nina Beth Cunningham, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: "Arsula Olsen and Flavia Smith, members of the Jerome Second Ward Relief Society, were honored recently at a visiting teachers convention for having served for twentyfive years as companion visiting teachers, and for having 100 per cent visiting teaching done during that entire time. '"These sisters are pioneers of the Jerome, Idaho, area, and were among the first members when the Jerome Ward was first organized. 'Their husbands served -as: ) bishops of Jerome Ward, and each sister Photograph submitted by Nina Cunningham has a son who became a bishop. These sisters bear testimony to the great blessings derived from visiting teaching for others, and for themselves as well.": Phetevraph submitted by Glenda Thompson ROY STAKE (UTAH), WEBER COUNTY CHRONIC DISEASE HOSPITAL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Glenda Thompson, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: "There was an urgent need for spiritual stimulation in the lives of the sisters living in the Chronic Disease Hospital, several of whom had served in various capacities in Relief Society for many years. In December 1960, under the direction of Stake President Henry A. Matis, the first meeting at the hospital was held. "In January 1961, Johanna Tubbs was sustained as president, with Amy Wood and Mabel Bingham as her counselors, Florence Tull, secretary-treasurer, and Bertha NOTES FROM THE FIELD 525 Child, organist. 'The hospital sisters were very unhappy with the idea of having Relief Society only once cach month during the summer season, so spiritual programs were presented during the summer months. In October 1961, class leaders were sustained for the regular Relief Society season. No work meeting is held because a daily occupational therapy class is held for the patients, "At the present time, there are forty-seven enrolled members and a weekly attendance of around fifty. This work of love is very rewarding, and the spiritual uplift and joy that it gives the sisters is worth all our efforts." PSY Sree Photograph =< = LaVerda O. Lloyd = MOUNT JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), CRESCENT WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT BIRTHDAY SOCIAL, March 13, 1962 Front row, left to right: Olga Lancaster; Mildred Edgel; LaVina Harrison; Ellen Hardcastle. Back row, left to right: Donna Steadman, present President; LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society; Vida Jordan. Sister Lloyd reports that all living former presidents of the Crescent Ward were honored at a luncheon and program. Each president was presented with a corsage, and a brief history of her accomplishments was given. Sixty sisters were served with a large, tiered, beautifully decorated cake serving as the centerpiece. Favors were gaily decorated jars of homemade hand cream. A skit entitled "Relief Society, Why?" was also presented. 526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Blake HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE December 3, 1961 Ruby M. Blake, President, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "Singing Mothers from the six wards of Highland Stake presented music at both general sessions of stake conference in December. We are encouraging the wards to keep their Singing Mothers choruses active and to participate in other stake and ward functions. "Stake chorister Ella Gale directed the chorus, with Jeannette Demars as pianist, Darlene Walker at the organ, and Maxine Hill, Linda Kemp, and Oletta Cummings as violinists." Photograph submitted -by Alpha M. Richins SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH), HENEFER WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED FOR ACHIEVING A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR EIGHT YEARS, February 26, 1962 Front row, left to right: Alpha M. Richins, President, Summit Stake Relief Society; Vera B. Brown, First Counselor; Violet Ovard,; Mable Winters; Susannah Fowler; Rita F. Ovard, Second Counselor, Summit Stake Relief Society; Susie Church; Belva Nowling; Veda F. Brooks, President, Henefer Ward Relief Society; John F. Hobson, President, Summit Stake. Second row, left to right: Elva Richins, visiting teacher message leader, Summit Stake; Ellen Dawson; Ruby Dearden; Elthera Stephens; Grace Jones; Inez Eakins; Erma Richins; Maina Dearden. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 527 Third row, left to right: Irene Rowser; Wilhelmina Dearden; Maxine Wright; Beth Fawcett; Ethel Taylor; Cheltina Anderton; Margaret Richins, visiting teacher message leader, Henefer Ward; Leana Tweed; Clarine Fawcett. Sister Richins reports: "We were very pleased with the convention and luncheon, and we feel it was an inspiration to all present. Our theme was 'I now turn the key in your behalf, in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth.' "Our invitations, favors, table decorations, and program were all in keeping with the theme. Elva F. Richins presented a tribute to visiting teachers. She paid special tribute to twenty-one sisters for their many years of service, and to six young mothers, just starting to teach. President Alpha M. Richins paid honor to Henefer Ward visiting teachers for having eight years of 100 per cent visiting teaching. They were presented a gift by Stake President John F. Hobson, who gave an inspirational talk on the responsibilities of visiting teaching. "Other wards in our stake honored were: Coalville Ward, with seven years of 100 per cent visiting teaching; Wanship Ward, with six years; Coalville Second Ward, with two years. Hoytsville Ward had 99% for the past year, Upton Ward 88%, and Echo Branch 67%." Shad Photograph submitted Ss by ey gE Peal HILLSIDE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), MOUNTAIN VIEW THIRD WARD OIL PAINTING PROJECT, SUMMER 1061 Left to right: Laura Elkins; Carlie Shurtliff; Vonda T. Richardson, President, Mountain View Third Ward Relief Society; Oletta Cummings; Adriana Zappy. Emily Woffinden and Belle Thomson were unable to be in the picture. Neva E. Paul, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, reports that this oil painting class was planned as a project for the summer of 1961. "The group met once a week for approximately three months. The paintings completed by the group, as well as other hobbies developed during the summer, were displayed at the opening social in the fall. It was felt that the class was a success. Approximately thirty paintings were completed by the seven women attending." 528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Photograph submitped by Martha Scoresby EAST IDAHO FALLS STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 1961 Martha Scoresby, President, East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group sang at our quarterly conference held in November 1961. We are very proud of the splendid work that they did to help make the conference the beautiful spiritual meeting it was. "The Education Counselor of the East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society is Lucile Harmon; Work Director Counselor, Beth Olsen; Secretary-Treasurer, Bernice Decker. The chorister and organist who were responsible for the fine chorus are Wanda Parker and Madge Johnson, respectively." <7. Photograph submitted by Mary S. Grasteit ORANGE COUNTY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING CONCERT, March 16, 1962 Stake officers seated front row, beginning fourth from the left, left to right: Jane Gudmundsen, organist; Venna Black, chorister; Lois B. Anderson, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary S. Grasteit, President; Ruth M. Bell, First Counselor; Pearl C. Dean, Second Counselor. Sister Grasteit reports: "Our Orange County Stake Singing Mothers presented a spring concert, using the theme 'Let There Be Song,' on March 16, 1962, at the Fullerton Ward chapel. Also appearing with the chorus, as guest artist, was Dawn Adams Phelps, well-known concert violinist from the Los Angeles area. The numbers ranged from hymns to light opera, and were enjoyed by approximately 550 people. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 529 "There are sixty-eight Singing Mothers in our chorus who have been practicing since last fall for this event. 'These are the mothers of 203 children, 109 of whom are school age, and ninety-four of pre-school age. We furnished nursery care during the practices and cared for as many as seventy-five children, and never less than fifty. 'The infants in arms were cared for in the various homes. "This was an outstanding musical event for which we have received much praise and are gratefully proud. 'The chorus plans further appearances for stake conference and Relief Society convention." Photograph submitted by Ethel O. Jen KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETIES MAKE LEARNERS' QUILTS sen Left to right: Vivian Averett, Second Counselor; Dorothy Brown, work meeting leader; Ethel O. Jensen, President, Kolob Stake Relief Society; Maude Neilson, First Counselor. Sister Jensen reports: "In aneffort to teach handwork skills to Relief Society women, we asked each ward to make a learners' quilt. We have seven wards in Kolob Stake. The sisters were taught to purchase material, embroider or piece blocks, set them together, put the quilt on frames, and to quilt and bind the quilts. Through this project, seven beautiful quilts were made, with 163 women learning, and there were 854 hours spent on the work. All the sisters enjoyed the project, and they all wanted to know when we are going to do more quilting. "We judged the quilts according to hours spent and the amount of participation. The quilts were the highlights of a hobby fair, where there were displays from each ward of foods, clothing, and all kinds of handwork. "Our stake officers are proud of the efforts in the wards, and we feel that the project has accomplished the goal of teaching this skill to our young women." THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 41 — The Center Place of Zion* Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 57; 58:1-14) For 'Tuesday, October 2, 1962 Objective: To learn that ancient prophets foresaw the New Jerusalem on the American Continent, and that the Lord's promise concerning Zion will not go unfulfilled. Background HE year 1831 was an eventful one in the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith and, consequently, of the Church. Among many important developments of that year, the Prophet had come to Kirtland, Ohio, for the first time. Within six months he was in Jackson County, Missouri, arriving there in July. With the publication of The Book of Mormon, the saints began to speculate as to where the New Jerusalem of which the ancient scriptures prophesied would be located. The Jaredite prophet Ether was shown many events of the last days, including the fact that the New Jerusalem would be built upon the American Continent. (See Ether 13:2-11.) Several centuries later, the resurrected Christ taught the same thing to the Nephites. (See 3 Nephi 20:22.) The Savior continued by explaining that with his Church established on the land of America in the last days, all of gathered Israel, including the Lamanites of that day, would build the city of the New Jerusalem. (See 3 Nephi 21:20-29.) 'The Lord said to Enoch, the seventh from Adam, that he and his city which were taken into the heavens would unite with the city of Zion on the earth at the beginning of the millennium. (See Moses 7:62-64. ) Interest in the location of the New Jerusalem was shown by many saints. One of these, Hiram Page, claimed to know the place where this holy city would be built. As a result, the Lord revealed that this location was not to be known then (September 1830), but that it would be "on the borders by the Lamanites" (D & C 28:9). *"Zion'" in this lesson has reference to the location of the city of Zion. Page 530 I LESSON DEPARTMENT In February 1831, the saints were told by revelation that if they prayed for information on 'this subject it would be revealed (ibid., 426 In the following months it was made known that the New Jerusalem would be located in the western lands. In preparation for this, the elders were to preach the gospel and build up churches. (See ibid., 45:64-66. ) At the close of the June 1831 conference held in Kirtland, the Lord said that the saints were to assemble in the land of Missouri. (See ibid., 52:2, 42-43.) In the middle of July 1831, the Prophet rejoiced with his brethren, who had long awaited his arrival in Missouri. Upon arriving in the "promised land," the Prophet felt to exclaim: "When will the wilderness blossom as the rose? When will Zion be built up in her glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days?" (D. H. C. 1:189). These questions were soon answered upon receiving Section 57 in July 1831. Section 57 and the New Jerusalem Verses 1 and 2 of Section 57 point out that the land of Missouri is the land for the gathering of the saints. Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion (D & C 57:2). After revealing that the center place of Zion was Independence, Missouri, the Lord said that the land of inheritance should be purchased "even unto the line running directly between Jew and Gentile." (See ibid., 3-5.) The Jew here is the Lamanite or Indian. (See ibid., 531 19:27; Omni 14-19.) In this sparsely settled land the saints were advised to obtain land by peaceful means. The remainder of this revelation gives instructions to several brethren whose appointment to these callings had been made in former revelations (namely, Sidney Gilbert, ibid., 57:6; 54:4; Edward Partridge, ibid., 57:73 41:9; 42:10; Wilham W. Phelps and Oliver Cowdery, ibid., 57:11-13; 55:4). The promise of revelation to guide the elders and members of the Church closes Section 57. (See ibid., 57:16.) On the first day of the next month a revelation was received in which the Lord set forth his plan for the Church in Missouri. Background of Section 58 As the Nephites knew ancient America to be the land of promise, so also do the Latter-day Saints know that within the greater promised land, the land of Missouri is "the land of promise" where the righteous will be gathered in the troublous days preceding the second coming of Christ. (See D & C 721-2; 45:62-75.)

A preaching service was held the first Sunday after the Prophet and his party arrived in Jackson County when two persons were baptized. (See D. H. C. I:190-191.) The Beginnings of Zion Just before Section 58 was received, the Colesville (New York) saints, more recently from 'Thompson, Ohio, numbering about sixty persons, arrived in Missouri by commandment. (See D. H. C. 1:191.) Concerning this branch of the Church and its part in the beginning of Zion, the Prophet wrote that the 532 first log for a house was "carried and placed by twelve men, in honor of the twelve tribes of Israel." 'The land was also dedicated by Elder Sidney Rigdon for the gathering of the saints. (See ibid., 1:196.) From John Whitmer's "History of the Church," we learn that the saints pledged to keep the commandments in their new land. (See ibid., I:196.) A description of this part of Missouri at the time of the Prophet is found in his journal. (See ibid., 1:197-198.) A Message of Hope and a Forewarning For the saints who had arrived in Jackson County and for those who would follow, the Lord expressed a message of hope for the future, as well as a prediction of tribulation. These messages were directly concerned with the land of Missouri. For verily I say unto you, blessed is he that keepeth my commandments, whether in life or in death; and he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven (D & C 58:2). The predictive element in this verse is strongly present. 'The emphasis placed upon the two propositions stated — hope and also tribulation — is announced by the use of the word "verily," which means "in very truth." Although all men are expected to live the laws of God, as they know them, the Latter-day Saint is bound by acceptance of the atonement of Christ through baptism to keep the commandments. (See ibid., 18:42-43.) 'Throughout the scriptures, promises are made that the blessings shall be rich for those who remain worthy even unto death. In the revelation we are now RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 studying (Section 58:2), it is stated that continued faithfulness is required even beyond mortality. That we shall be the same persons in the spirit world that we are when we leave this life, is a part of our knowledge. (See Alma 34:32-34.) In that day we shall all realize that happiness results from obedience to divine law. With counsel concerning the necessity to be faithful in tribulation, the saints were immediately informed that the land of Missouri would not then be known as their permanent home. Granted that the saints may not have realized the full import of the following message, yet they were forewarned: Ye cannot behold with your natural eyes, for the present time, the design of your God concerning those things which shall come hereafter, and the glory which shall follow after much tribulation. For after much tribulation come the blessings. Wherefore the day cometh that ye shall be crowned with much glory; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand (D & C 58:3-4). It was not long before persecution was heaped upon the saints in Missouri. Details of the future are wisely withheld by the Father that his people may look beyond temporary setbacks to their ultimate glory. (See D & C Commentary, page 334-) In a subsequent lesson we shall learn more about the reasons why the saints were persecuted. For the present, however, two causes are mentioned: first, their religious beliefs, especially concerning the restoration of the gospel with its gifts and powers. For example, the Manifesto issued by a Missouri mob on July 20, 1833, referred to the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints pretending to receive revelations direct from heaven and to perform miracles as the apostles and prophets of old. (See D. HC. 1:374-376.) Second, that in consequence of the saints' transgressions, they were chastened and not allowed to redeem Zion at that time. (See D & C 101:1-10; 103:1-4; 105: 1-6.) The prediction that the saints would pass through tribulation was fulfilled when they were driven from Missouri, then Illinois, and then to the mountains outside the boundaries of the United States. (See D & C Commentary, pp. 331-332.) The manner in which most of the early saints endured "much tribulation" is a credit to their faith. The testimony of President Young concerning his own experience could be said of many others:... We have passed through a great Many scenes, we may say, of tribulation, though I would have all my brethren understand that I do not take this to myself, for all that I have passed through has been joy and joyful to me.... I have, myself, five times before I came to this valley, left everything that the Lord had blessed me with pertaining to this world's goods, which, for the country where I lived, was not a very little (Journal of Discourses, 18:237). The ability of the faithful Latterday Saints to pass through tribulation or trials though they may come only as the normal experiences of life, may be attributed to the hope and knowledge that "the day cometh that ye [they] shall be crowned with much glory " (D & C 58:4). One can understand as a Latter-day Saint that the testimony of the truth restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith has given and continues to give an assurance that the Lord's word will be fulfilled. Without this 533 divine promise, many would find it difficult to endure to the end. Glory to Come Ultimately to all the faithful will come blessings of eternal life. 'There will be a happy reunion with departed loved ones, and the joy of eternal increase with its manifold blessings of dominion and honor. But the message to the saints of our time is that the inheritance promised in Missouri [Zion] will yet be realized. '".,. The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand" (D & C 58:4). "It must be much nearer now than when this inspired line was first penned" (D & C Commentary, page 335). This significant truth is found in the fifth verse of this revelation: Remember this, which I tell you before, that you may lay it to heart, and receive that which is to follow (D & C 58:5). The Lord has promised his people that after much tribulation would come the blessings of much glory. At the time, however, they were not to see the redemption of Zion. For us today, we may be assured that the prophecies concerning Zion will all be fulfilled. One of the rich legacies of the Latter-day Saints is to live in a period when the prophecies are being fulfilled. One important purpose of prophecy is to serve as confirmation of the prophet's mission and that the fulfillment will instil in the hearts of people the desire to obey the Lord's word. In the light of these purposes, what faith should the Latter-day Saint have in the future of Zion? Reasons for the Saints Gathering in Zion Several reasons are given for the commandment to gather to Mis- 534 souri. It is clear from this revelation that the saints were to lay the foundation of Zion. Regardless of what would happen after the saints began their work, the time would come when Zion would prosper in the preparations made for the return of the Savior to the earth. The redemption of Zion would come only as the people knew and fully accepted in their lives the reasons which follow: Behold, verily I say unto you, for this cause I have sent you — that you might be obedient, and that your hearts might be prepared to bear testimony of the things which are to come (D & C 58:6). The Church of Jesus Christ is divinely directed. Strict obedience is essential for salvation. 'The direction of the Church requires the directing will of the Father through inspired prophets. (See D & C Commentary, page 336.) In verse 6 we have also another purpose in that the obedient would bear testimony of the truth revealed through the Prophet. In addition to keeping the commandments as stated, the saints of 1831 were to be honored in laying the foundation of Zion. (See D&C 58:7.) The Prophet Joseph Smith records that on the third day of August 1831, he dedicated the temple site, a little west of what was then Independence, Missouri. As a part of this service, the 87th Psalm was read. When one thinks of the glory which will yet surround this place and the purpose of the temple prophecied centuries ago, he can well understand the Prophet's comment: "The scene was solemn and impressive." (See D. H. C. T:199.) The fourth reason for the saints RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 coming to Zion, as given in verse 7 of this revelation, was to bear record of the land itself. Another purpose of God in establishing Zion is given in verses 8 to 10 which was realized at some period after laying the foundation of that city, as pointed out in the D & C Commentary, pp. 336-337. The Day of the Lord's Power Further information regarding the glory of the Zion of the last days is brought to our attention in verses 11 and 12 of this revelation. The interpretation of these verses indicates events which usher in the millennial reign of the Savior. (See D & C Commentary, page 337.) The assurance of the fulfillment of God's word brings forth the Lord's last reason for the building of Zion. (See D & C 1:37-38.) It is that his testimony or law is to go forth from Zion to enlighten the world. (See ibid., 58:13.) The Future Glory of Zion I President Brigham Young in these words referred to the time when he saw the return of the saints to build up Zion in Missouri:... Before we were driven out of Missouri I had a vision, if I would dare to say that I had a vision, and saw that the people would go to the east, to the north and to the west; but we should go back to Jackson County from the west. When this people return to the Centre Stake [place] of Zion, they will go from the west (Journal of Discourses, 11:17). Because of the conditions which prevented the saints from building the temple in Zion, the Lord released the saints from performing this important duty at that time. LESSON DEPARTMENT (See D & C 124:49-51.) When the call comes from the divinely appointed servants of the Lord, the city and temple will be built as commanded for this generation (Ibid., 84:4-5). Due to the driving of our people from the land of their inheritance, being thus moved out of their place, they will return to build unto the Lord the long-predicted Zion. (See ibid., 101:17-10.) When this task is undertaken the saints will be led with power. In the meantime, the Lord's people must become great and sanctified before him. (See ibid., 105:11-13, 31-32.) The laws and commandments, including the living of the law of consecration, will be lived "after her [Zion's] redemption." (See ibid., 105:34.) When the Prophet Joseph Smith first viewed the land of Missouri, his vision was not on the then disadvantages of that place but upon the greatness of the Zion to be. Here is his message: 535 But all these impediments vanish when it is recollected what the Prophets have said concerning Zion in the last days; how the glory of Lebanon is to come upon her; the fir tree, the pine tree, and the box tree together, to beautify the place of His sanctuary, that He may make the place of His feet glorious. Where for brass, He will bring gold; and for iron, He will bing silver; and for wood, brass; and for stones, iron; and where the feast of fat things will be given to the just; yea, when the splendor of the Lord is brought to our consideration for the good of His people, the calculations of men and the vain glory of the world vanish, and we exclaim, "Out of Zion the perfection of beauty, God hath shined" (D. H. C. I:198; cf. Isaiah 60:12-22). Questions for Discussion 1. Give some of the prophecies relating to the New Jerusalem. 2. Why do you think the Indian is referred to as the Jew in Section 57? 3. Discuss: Before the expulsion of the saints from Missouri, the saints were forewarned of tribulation. 4. Give two reasons why the. Saints were driven from Missouri. 5- Why do you think the saints have been able to stand up against persecution? THE ONLY ROAD The only road on earth that is in no need of repair is the straight and narrow.