[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Wangsgaard]
[POETRY Summer Interval — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 473 Prayer for the Fourth Generation Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
poetry  like  the  leaves  of  a  tree,  which 
precede  flowers  and  fruit  —  not'  a  fossil 
earth,  but  a  living  earth;  compared  with 
whose  great  central  life  all  animal  and 
vegetable  life  is  merely  parasitic.  (Ibid., 
page  310). 
Earlier  in  Walden,  from  his  essay 
"Where  I  Lived/'  he  memorably 
specifies  this  grand  theme,  namely, 
that  the  ultimate  good  life  is  here 
and  now,  beneath  our  feet  and  with- 
in our  perceiving  eye,  if  only  we  can 
learn  to  sense  its  real  meaning.  How 
good  is  here-and-now,  as  seen  by 
Thoreau: 
...  If  the  day  and  the  night  are  such 
that  you  greet  them  with  joy,  and  life 
emits  a  fragrance  like  flowers  and  sweet- 
scented  herbs,  that  is  your  success.  The 
true  harvest  of  my  daily  life  is  somewhat 
as  intangible  and  indiscernible  as  the  tints 
of  morning  or  evening.  It  is  a  little  stgr 
dust  caught,  a  segment  of  the  rainbow 
which   I   have  clutched. 
Thus  Thoreau  reveals  himself  in 
true  dress  and  dream :  eternally  he  is 
discontented,  ever  stirring  up  trouble 
among  his  fellows  by  reminding 
them  of  the  sweet  joy  of  existence 
which  they,  too,  could  know  and 
experience,  if  only  they  would  be- 
lieve and  aspire.  Once  again  in  a 
final  quotation,  Thoreau  tries  to  pull 
man  and  prod  him  to  soar  above 
hmiself  by  seeing  himself  in  Nature 
not  actually  but  symbolically.  The 
quotation  is  from  the  essay  ''Walk- 
ing" which  was  published  after  his 
death. 
We  hug  the  earth  —  how  rarely  we 
mount!  Methinks  we  might  elevate  our- 
selves a  little  more.  We  might  climb  a 
tree,  at  least.  I  found  my  account  in 
climbing  a  tree  once.  It  was  a  tall  white 
pine,  on  the  top  of  a  hill;  and  though  I 
got  well  pitched,  I  was  well  paid  for  it, 
for  I  discovered  new  mountains  in  the 
horizon  which  I  had  never  seen  before  — 
so  much  more  of  the  earth  and  the  heav- 
ens. I  might  have  walked  about  the  foot 
of  the  tree  for  threescore  years  and  ten, 
and  yet  I  certainly  should  never  have  seen 
them.  But,  above  all,  I  discovered  around 
me  —  it  was  near  the  end  of  June  —  on 
the  ends  of  the  topmost  branches  only, 
a  few  minute  and  delicate  red  conelike 
blossoms,  the  fertile  flower  of  the  white 
pine  looking  heavenward.  I  carried 
straightway  to  the  village  the  topmost 
spire,  and  showed  it  to  stranger  jurymen 
who  walked  the  streets  —  for  it  was  court 
week  —  but  they  wondered  as  at  a  star 
dropped  down.  Tell  of  ancient  architects 
finishing  their  works  on  the  tops  of  col- 
umns as  perfectly  as  on  the  lower  and 
more  visible  parts!     Nature  has  from  the

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
545 
first  expanded  the  minute  blossoms  of  the 
forest  only  toward  the  heavens,  above 
men's  heads  and  unobserved  by  them.  We 
see  only  the  flowers  that  are  under  our 
feet  in  the  meadows. 
Thoughts  for  Discussion 
1.  How    does    Thoreau    increase    your 
appreciation  of  life? 
2.  If  Thoreau's  ideas  and  style  could  be 
simplified,  should  they  be? 
3.  How  do  you  account  for  the  fact 
that  few  American  books  have  been  more 
widely  translated  throughout  the  world 
than  has  Thoreau's  Walden? 
4.  What  particular  memories  of  nature 
do  Thoreau's  vivid  descriptions  bring  back 
to  you? 
SOCIAL  SCIENCE    Divine  Law  and  Church  Government 
The  Foundation  of  Church  Government 
Lesson  1  —  The  Meaning  of  Divine 
Elder  Ariel  S.  BdUi 
For  Tuesday,  October  23,  1962 
Objective:     To  establish  in  the  mind  the  sacred  nature  of  Church  government  through 
the  definition  of  divine  law. 
Bdid  in  God  Is  Basic 
IN  order  for  us   to  have  a   clear 
understanding  of  the  law  of  God, 
to  recognize  his  right  to  authority, 
and  to  harmonize  our  actions  with 
his  wisdom,  we  must  first  accept 
without  reservation  the  fundamental 
premise  that  God  lives  ".  .  .  he  that 
cometh  to  God  must  believe  that 
he  is"  (Heb.  11:6). 
In  Mosiah  4:9,  we  read,  "Believe 
in  God;  believe  that  he  is,  and  that 
he  created  all  things,  both  in  heaven 
and  in  earth;  believe  that  he  has  all 
wisdom,  and  all  power,  both  in 
heaven  and  in  earth;  believe  that 
man  doth  not  comprehend  all  the 
things  which  the  Lord  can  compre- 
hend" 
To  accept  the  reality  of  God  is  an 
act  of  faith  supported  and  sustained
