[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Cutler]
WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 1 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part 1) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Tuesday, October 9, 1962 Objective: To show that successful home management begins with happy, wholesome family relationships. UR first home management subject is organization and _planning. Perhaps it will help us to understand the scientific approach to home management if we know about the beginnings of scientific management in industry. In 1880, Fredrick W. Taylor, after twentythree years of studying management, Stated his theory: "Efficiency is the end and aim of scientific management; it is brought about through planning, organizing, and learning to do shop jobs skillfully." Many countries tried out Taylor's efficiency theory and learned that it was lacking on two counts: first, the best results are not obtained from the worker if he does not have satisfying relationships with his work 538 group; second, a worker becomes dissatisfied and unhappy and leaves his job if he does not have some creative outlet. Our problem is, how can we relate the theory of industrial management to home management? Have you read Cheaper By the Dozen? If so, you have become acquainted with the remarkable Gilbreth family that first tried out these scientific ideas in a home sit- 'uation. On the foundation of love, an efficient management system was developed. 'The family knew the jobs to be done. They knew who were responsible for doing them; and they knew how to have a good time while they worked. 'The story of their family life, as well as their scientific reports of time and motion studies put to the test in washing dishes and doing other household tasks, provide good reading for the homemaker who wants to make her work a profession. Today, there are some well-defined principles of home management that can be recommended for any home situation. If they are followed carefully and adhered to until proficiency is' acquired, many dollars may be added to the annual income; and there will be bonuses or stay-athome pay that cannot be measured in dollars and cents. There will be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 the building up of a priceless family trust, a happy confident trust that rewards all dedicated home managers. To reap these rich rewards, the order of the industrial management theory must be reversed. Of primary importance in home management is first, a condition of happy relationships in the family group; and efficiency takes second plate. This means that a feeling of love and sincerity permeates the home and can be recognized by anyone who visits the family. Even though all members of the family are working on different projects, there is a feeling of togetherness. 'The interest shown by each member in the welfare of the others is ever apparent. Family loyalty is strong, and one sees a cohesiveness that makes the family organization the matrix around which all else revolves. And so, our home management theory begins with happy, wholesome, family relationships. Family values that help to make such relationships are described in the Family Values Test. Check yourself and family on these values and you will be better prepared for the next lesson, which deals with scientific ways of making your home efficient. Family Values Test Our family has: 1. Security a. The safe feeling of having enough money to pay our bills and keep out of debt. B. The peace of mind that results from thrift, wise use of resources, and a nest egg for a rainy day. Yes SomeNo what LESSON DEPARTMENT Our family has: c. The satisfaction of a high credit rating that comes from strict honesty and moral trust — worthiness in all dealings. 2. Health a. Well-planned meals, with all essential nutrients every day. B. A home that is based on love which feeds the heart and lifts the soul to meet each day's demands. C. A home that is clean and orderly and a suitable setting for healthful family living. 3. Comfort A home that makes cold days feel warm and hot days feel cool — where all have a place for relaxation, rest, and rebuilding of inner resources. 4. Privacy A feeling of protection against intruders, with each person having one place in the home that is strictly his own, even if it is only a small corner or a dresser drawer. 5. Friends A love of people and a sharing with them of family fun and hospitality, at mealtime, family nights, and on special occasions. 6. Convenience A home that is planned so that work and activities may be carried on easily. 7. Hobbies Special interests, such as music, art, books, collections, pets, or crafts which occupy much of our "at-home" time. 8. Religious Activity a. Family and individual prayers, blessing on the food, scriptural reading. B. Planning for Church attendance and activity. C. Study of ancestors — writing biographies, making Books of Remembrance and Treasures of Truth. G. Educational and Cultural Ambitions a. Enough schooling to help each member to live abundantly. B. Family trips and excursions to learn more about the world and its people. (This could be a trip to the park or museum.) c. A home library of books and records, with opportunities for home concerts and book Teviews. 10. Provision for Beauty a. A home made beautiful through creative effort. B. Attractive clothes to help us look and act our best (neat and clean). Yes Somewhat No 539 LITERATURE America's Literature Lesson 33 — Thoreau, Man in Nature Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495) For Tuesday, October 16, 1962 Objective: gift of life. HENRY DAVID THOREAU ALMOST everyone who has heard of Henry David Thoreau knows that he spent two years living in a shanty he constructed with his own hands on the shore of Walden Pond some few miles outside Concord, Massachusetts. And now as then the inevitable questions follow: Why did he leave normal society for so long? Other than verifying impressions of his being eccentric, Page 540 To feel and appreciate Thoreau's "'inexpressible satisfaction" with the what did he prove? And most pressing, what did it get him? The desperate publisher of Thoreau's first book A Week on the Concord and Merrimac Rivers, dumped on the author over seven hundred of the thousand copies printed rather than burn them, so poorly did they sell. Thoreau's Walden, a _ compilation which "sprouted" from his journals, sold less than two thousand copies before his death in 1862. Yet, in our century, few American books have been more widely translated throughout the world.