[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Mama | Author: Gubler]
Mama and the Heavenly Father Alice Gubler mer sunset were spreading like cool fingers across the fevered brow of day. Summer evenings were a most treasured part of my childhood. Sunset meant homecoming time at our house; it was sort of an unwritten law. However, we could play in the lane in front of the house with the other children until we were called. My cousin Iantha and I were happily squishing the dust in the road between our toes, when a plaintive voice asked, "Will you two walk home with me?" We looked up. 'There was Julie, and my goodness, she was fifty miles from home. Well, at least a whole mile, because her house was the other side of town. "Oh, my, I can't go anywhere now,' I said, "because the sun is almost down." "Of course it is," she said, "that's why I want you to go with me. It will be dark before I get home and Pll be afraid." Iantha said, "Oh, come on. Let's take her home." "I can't," I protested. "Tf both of you go, then you won't have to come back alone,' Julie pleaded. "No, I can't." "All right, don't you go with me then," she said with a toss of her head, "but Ill tell you one thing, Page 490 jig? Long shadows of the sumif you don't, then the bad man will get you." "He won't, really, will he?" I asked. "He will, really," she affirmed. Julie was ages and ages older than I was. She was born the year before I was, and that would make her lots smarter. She probably knew lots more about the bad man than I did. I looked toward the house where mama would be putting supper on. She would be pouring creamy milk from a pan into the green glass pitcher, and she would put on a plate with a hundred slices of bread on it — well a lot of slices anyway, because it took lots of bread for all of us. When we sat down to eat bread and milk and fruit at nights we circled clear around the big table that Uncle Jake had built for us. You see there were five sisters and mama and papa and a little baby brother, with curly hair, who was the cutest baby in the world, and Grandma Isom. Grandma always fussed over me because I was named for her, but I worried her, too. She would say, "My lands, how that child exaggerates!" I always wondered what she meant. I had the urge to run fast into the house where the family was, before Julie could say another word, but I didn't. "We'd better hurry, Iantha, and take Julie home," I said, so the three MAMA AND THE HEAVENLY FATHER of us took hold of hands and pattered down the lane. I was the littlest and the youngest, and I wished they would let me walk in the middle, but they didn't. Julie got the middle spot, and as we walked on each side of her to protect her, she told us spooky tales of things that really, really happened to people who lived right close around. USK was turning into thick black velvet as we scooted along through the tunnel of trees to Julie's house. When we came to her gate we stood under the climbing trumpet vines. Julie whispered, "And now, because you had to be coaxed, and didn't come with me when I first asked you, I'm going to tell you one thing more. The bad man is going to get you anyway. He won't get you until the first night you sleep away from home." I pulled away and grabbed Iantha's hand, and in utter fright, we sped down the lane and home. I slipped quietly into the welcome light of the living room. Papa said, "This is a fine time to be coming home to supper." The table was cleared already, and my sisters were washing the dishes. Mama was humming a tune as she kept finding more dishes for my sisters to do. Mama could always find more dirty dishes, even where there weren't any, almost. But you should have heard her sing. She hummed prettier than anybody; soft and clear and sweet. Her cheeks were always pink, too, the kind of pink that didn't scrub off and that made her look special. I looked at her, and I wanted to run to her and tell her my whole 491 miserable story, but Julie had said the bad man would get me just as soon as I told. I stood in the kitchen by the stair door feeling awfully little.. No one paid any attention to me. The kitchen began to shimmer in front of my eyes and I felt my chin quiver, so I climbed the stairs around the turn and wiped my eyes and hoped no one could see me.