[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: A Sister to 231.174 Members Marianne C. Sharp]
— Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN EMERY STAKE: President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed all, was pleased to see so many present. Reported the labors of the Stake officers throughout the various wards, and of visiting from one society to another, encouraging the young ladies to join the Relief Society.... Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we were the most blessed people on the face of the earth. We should always be obedient to the priesthood. If there should ever be any differences among the sisters it should be settled among themselves according to the regular order.... Told us of the visiting plan also of encouraging the young ladies to join the society.... Read the minutes of the first organization of the Relief Society in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the meetings held in those days.... — Mary O. Miller, Sec. MAKE MY HEART BRAVE! Make my heart brave, O Lord! Brave for the loss of faces dearer grown; Brave for the battle that is mine alone; The glory unachieved I thought mine own, Make not my burden less; make my heart brave! — Annie Pike MRS. HORNE HOME: Hon. Alice Merrill Horne has just returned from Chicago where she has been staying for a month past, the guest of Miss Josephine C. Locke, former supervisor of drawing in the Chicago public schools. Mrs. Horne visited the public schools there and brought home a variety of drawings for comparison with our local school work. She met a number of the leading teachers, educators and artists of that city and attended noted lectures at the University of Chicago and the Chicago Institute of Art. — News Note A SURPRISE IN HONOR OF RETIRING OFFICERS: A very enjoyable time was held at the Montpelier (Idaho) meeting house... An unusual occasion owing to the fact that each of our honored sisters was bern in a foreign land, each crossed the plains in a handcart company and each was among the first to settle in this once forbidding valley. — Mary A. Perkins Page 504 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon TWO Latter-day Saint women, Mrs. Luacine Clark Fox, and Mrs. Berta Huish Christensen, have been awarded national honors by the Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. 'The awards were presented by the Foundations President, Dr. Kenneth D. Wells, April 29, 1962, over a special program on KSL television and radio, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs. Fox wrote the script "The Sound of a Bell," in which bells were portrayed as symbols of freedom, and the Nauvoo Bell was featured. Mrs. Christensen was honored for her series of poems, "Portrait of Freedom," exemplifying historic moments of significant import in the establishment and defense of freedom in America. EARL BUCK'S latest book, A Bridge for Passing, tells of her experience in assisting with the making of her novel, The Big Wave, into a movie in Japan; the changes in modern Japan, particularly among the women; the death of her husband at home in the USA, and the bridge by which she tries to learn to pass from twenty-five years of an unusually happy marnage to widowhood. HELEN THOMAS, seventh of ten children of Lebanese-American parents, is United Press International's "girl at the White House." With political journalism as her goal, Helen went to Washington immediately upon graduation from Wayne University, _ Detroit, and after some years was reporting, nationally, Department of Justice and other agencies news. UEEN JULIANA of Holland on May third celebrated her fifty-third birthday and the silver wedding anniversary of her marriage to Prince Bernhard. Six reigning European monarchs and many princes and princesses paid tribute in person to Juliana, who is much admired and respected, and to her distinguished Prince Consort. R. NANCY G. ROMAN is Chief of the Astronomy and Solar Physics Programs of the Office of Space Sciences of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States. Her work includes planning, coordination and institution of a comprehensive program of astronomical observations conducted from beyond the atmosphere of the earth by means of rockets and satellites. Page 505 O— > EDITORIAL —oO VOL. 49 ~ JULY 1962 NO. 7 A Sister to 231,174 Members ER face beamed with happiness. The apron enveloped her figure as she hurried back and forth, back and forth from the kitchen to the luncheon table, carrying platters of appetizing food. When the Relief Society Convention luncheon was nearly over and her work nearly completed, a few missionaries arrived to assist with translation for the afternoon meetings. 'They were seated at the vacated table. A quick glance at her face revealed nothing but delight. A pair of missionaries such as these had brought the everlasting gospel to her only six months before. No other member of her family had yet seen the light, but by its radiance her own life had taken on new vitality and become purposeful and joyous. It seemed a privilege to her to be obeying her Saviors injunction "He that is greatest among you, shall be your servant." To great numbers of women of many cultures and languages a light has broken forth out of darkness. Those who were strangers before are now bound by ties of sisterly devotion. Two visiting teachers go by bus from a house in one section of a city to a second house in another part, to a third home in the farmland, to a fourth home in a crowded apartment. 'The words "one of a city, and two of a family," are exemplified by their travels. One Page 506 visiting teacher, a convert of six years, is a schoolteacher, the second visiting teacher, a convert of two months, does day cleaning. 'Through the divinely organized Relief Society they are now sisters, more understanding of each other's hopes and aspirations than their former intimate friends. They are also sisters to 231,173 other women throughout the world. Were they all to meet together they would love and understand each other, for they are devoted members of the organization given them by their Eternal Father, and members of the kingdom of God. Many lessons of eternal import are fostered through the teachings and training of Relief Society. One, recently noted in a foreign land, was — that of respect for authority. The meeting had begun and the sister in authority of those present was directing. Suddenly, a second sister of equal position arrived whose plane had been late. She explained that the president, who was in the hospital, had asked her to conduct the meetings.
