[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 1 — The Meaning of Divine Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, October 23, 1962 Objective: the definition of divine law. Belief in God Is Basic N order for us to have a clear understanding of the law of God, to recognize his right to authonity, and to harmonize our actions with his wisdom, we must first accept without reservation the fundamental premise that God lives "... He that cometh to God must believe that he is" (Heb. 11:6). In Mosiah 4:9, we read, "Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend." To accept the reality of God is an act of faith supported and sustained To establish in the mind the sacred nature of Church government through by available evidence. Evidence of the existence of God is found in two main sources: the first is in the orderliness of the universe and the earth we live on. The heavens are full of planets and stars moving in orderly orbit, each in its own sphere of action. The earth is teeming with the handiwork of the Supreme Being as evidenced in the movement of the earth on its axis, its movement through space in synchronized relationship to the other planets, the effectiveness of daylight and dark, the seasons of the year, and the extensive organization of life itself. All this was climaxed by the creation of man to whom God gave dominion over all living things. The second source is the evidence found in the records of sacred litera- 546 ture. The Bible is a record of God's dealings with man, including a report of the creation and the beginnings of man's conquest of the forces of nature. Supporting Scripture The Bible does not stand alone as the supporting evidence of the existence and reality of God. 'The Book of Mormon, a record of God's dealings: with man compiled by authorized agents on the Western Hemisphere, is another witness for the same great truth that God lives and that mankind is his greatest concern in the whole of his creation. The sacred records referred to above are replete with evidence of the reality of God. Sometimes their evidence is in the form of wisdom and counsel given for the welfare of man. Again it is found in the reports of his voice identifying his Son and giving approval to the plan of life and salvation as presented by the Lord: And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (Matt. 3:16-17). Upon the Western Hemisphere, some time later, there was a similar happening. 'The eleventh chapter of 3 Nephi in The Book of Mormon is a record of the Eternal Father proclaiming the Christ. The people. Did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them: Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him (3 Nephi 11:5-7). In modern times the Prophet Joseph Smith saw two Beings, God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Joseph bears record to the world that he heard the voice of God identify the Savior with the statement, "This is my Beloved Son." At the same time God approved the mission of the Savior, including the plan Christ had presented, by saying "Hear him" (PGP, Joseph Smith 2:17). A Definition of Theology The study of God through a careful, unprejudiced examination of the sacred literature and the organized information dealing with God is called theology. 'To analyze this word theos means God, and Jogos means an organized body of knowledge. It is out of this organized body of knowledge that we can discover the reality of God and the true meaning of his revelations to man, provided, as we study, that we have faith sufficient to enjoy the inspiration of his spirit. To all members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been given the gift of the Holy Ghost. Only by the witness of the Holy Ghost can the members testify to the reality of God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Chnist. This witness does not automatically follow our confirmation to membership in the Church; it comes through humility, service to our fellow men, and a sincere effort LESSON DEPARTMENT to incorporate into our lives the rules of conduct, the way of life or religion as found in the teachings of the divine will of God. A Definition of Divine In the use of the term divine, clarification and specific meanings must be given. According to the dictionary, the word divine may be a noun, meaning a clergyman, or minister; a verb, meaning to foretell or prophesy; or an adjective, meaning godlike, heavenly, or emanating from God. The Latter-day Saint Concept of Divine To the Latter-day Saint the defnition of divine refers specifically to God our Eternal Father, to his Son Jesus Christ, and to the Holy Ghost, for they are one in purpose. It refers to their dealings with us, including all that pertains to the plan of life and salvation. All that is good comes from God and is, therefore, divine. We recognize God as the Creator without qualification or limitation. Paul the apostle had this Same point of view when he said, For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: i things were created by him, and for im: And he is before all things, and by him all things consist (Col. 1:16-17). President John Taylor in commenting upon this scripture said, "If all things, visible and invisible, are made by and for him, he governs and sustains all worlds to us known, together with the earth on which we live. If he governs them, they are 547 under his dominion, subject to his laws, and controlled by his will and power ('l'AyLor, JoHN: The Government of God, August 1852, page 1). In The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 132:12, we read, "I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment — that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord." And in ancient scripture we read, "Know therefore this day, and consider it in thine heart, that the Lord he is God in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath: there is none else" (Deut. 4:39). From the above statements, we must conclude that for a Latter-day Saint the term divine has a sacred, holy meaning in that things divine originate with God the Eternal Father. In this sense, divine refers to all the instruction, guidance, and rules of conduct that God has revealed through all ages for the benehit and progress of his children on earth. "Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth" (Psalms 119:142), and "... The truth of the Lord endureth forever" (Psalms 117:2). God Has All Wisdom With the above in mind we will consider the word of God to be divine law. Our study is built on the basic premise of the reality of God. Of equal importance is the companion idea that God knows all things pertaining to his innumerable creations. To man, the challenge was issued in the beginning to people the earth, subdue it, and have dominion over all living things upon it. In plain, simple terms the earth was 548 designed for the benefit of man; however, he must achieve the benefits through his own efforts by discovering the governing principles involved. As has been pointed out before, the earth and the universe operate on God's laws. 'The operation of the planets and the stars, the operation of the elements and the rules governing life upon this earth are fixed by divine law. Man does not have the control nor operation of these laws. 'This function of creation God has retained. Under his wisdom it has operated successfully according to his design. People — God's Crowning Creation The universe in its degree of perfection is the place provided for man to grow and develop and, in the process, bring under subjection for his use and comfort all that nature has to offer.... The fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion (D & C 59:16-20). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Divine Law Is for the Welfare of His Children From the beginning of the first dispensation of time, God has revealed himself to his children upon this earth. In a consistent manner and in language that could be understood he has pointed out the destiny of man. President Lorenzo Snow, a modern prophet, summarized man's destiny in his statement "as God is man may become." The mind and will of God concerning man have been expressed through revelation giving direction to man through which he can obtain the most out of life. Divine revelation has concerned itself primarily with laws governing man's relationship with man. The Social Aspect of Our Religion Basic to all the law given is the divine law of love, having its fundamental meaning expressed in the kinship relation of the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man. The love of one's fellow men is essential to the love of God. On this divine law—love of God and love of fellow men, are all the laws based. In the creation, man was recognized as a social being. 'The Creator said "... It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him" (Genesis 2:18). The first commandment given to Adam and Eve was to people the earth. With the coming of people the problems of interaction increased. The struggle between Cain and Abel was evidence of the intensity and importance of human association. This conflict invoked another basic law that we are our brother's keeper. From generation to generation the Lord has patiently LESSON DEPARTMENT continued to keep before his children the divine laws of human conduct. During Christ's ministry there was a re-emphasis of the rules of conduct with clarification of the destiny of the human family. He stated anew the plan of life and his purpose in this world which was to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. How was this to be accomplished? By man's obedience to the divine laws and ordinances governing human conduct which is his gospel. We are told "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise' (D & C 82:10); and "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D & C 130:20-21). The major concern of the great council in heaven was how man could obtain the most out of his earthly experience. The plan of God the Creator was to give man his agency. Christ volunteered to put the Father's plan in operation. The Savior was to provide man with direction and stimulation to develop and progress under divine rules and regulations. Man with his freedom can listen, learn, and choose. The divine law has been given for his benefit. If he will operate or direct his life according to the law, it is possible for him to achieve the full objective of his creation. To assist in the achievement of man's destiny the divine law has l, SACRED MUSIC I FOR I WOMEN'S VOICES COME UNTO HIM "MESSIAH" — Handel.20 l COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen.20 I FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, I GO — Madsen.20.. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25._ IN THY FORM — Madsen.20.. JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING — Bach.25. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens.20 LORD'S PRAYER - _ MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach.25.. THE 23RD PSALM — Schubert.25. UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES — Beethoven..22.. VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS — Scott Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 €. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please above On Approval [] Charge Money Enclosed i H ] I; send the music indicated '! { I I I I I I I; 1 I I I I t t! I I I I City and State 0.00.-. I I l l I l l l; I I I I I I l I I I I ' I I Malotte 25 I I I I l I I I i I I [ I I I l I I I i I I I I I 15 E. Ist South I Salt Lake City 11, Utah I 550 CHESBRO MUSIC CO. Box 2009 Idaho Falls, Idaho THE WEST'S LARGEST MUSIC DISTRIBUTOR SSA Arrangements ( ) Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring — Bach — No. 8388.25 ( +) Still, Still With Thee — Madsen — No. 103817 200.000 22 ( ) The Lord's Prayer — Malotte — No. 7987 25 ( ) The Lord Is My Shepherd — Smart — No. 1417 22.20 ( ) Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes — No. 6221 oo occcccccee ccc ceceeeee enone 22 ( ) Let Not Your Song End — Cain — No. 83238 0 25 ( ) The Voice in the Wilderness — No.

504 ooo. En.25 ( ) My Soul Is Athirst for God — Madsen ooei iio eeee cece eee ee eeeeeeee.20 ( ) Abide With Me 'Tis Eventide — Madsen ooo ieee ccce ec ceee ee eeeee.20 ( ) Love One Another — Fox.30 ( ) You'll Never Walk Alone — Rodgers & Hammerstein.25 ( ) No Man Is an Island.25 ( ) Give Me Your Tired, Your 5) en.25 ( ) Calm as the Night.20 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in The Mountain West's first an