[Vol26 | September 1939 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Relief Society and Knowlton]

The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Ezra C. Knowlton
"She had an understanding with the years: For always in her eyes there was a light As though she kept a secret none might guess— Some confidence that Time had made her heart. So comely did she bear the weight of pain, With such serenity accept the joy, It seemed she had a mother love of life. And all the days were children at her breast."
The inauguration of the Church Welfare Plan by the General Church Authorities three years ago found the Relief Society ready and prepared to fulfill its very important part. Sustained by a background of nearly 100 years of continuous and illustrious history in the field of true Christian service, it stood ready to begin this new and important activity.
What a remarkable background of preparation it has had, which might be divided into four great epochs: First, its birth unto a people struggling for recognition and the right to organized existence in the world. Its early years were tested in the crucible of persecution, mobbings and drivings. Second, its coming into maturity during that eventful pioneer period when the people, though separated by kindly distance from human foes, were called upon to make almost superhuman sacrifices against nature's relentless forces. Third, its important years of preserving and upholding the high standards of womanhood during the period of the coming of economic security and comparative popularity accompanied by the disintegrating elements of spiritual and moral Tin inauguration of the Wel- —Scudder Middleton. Breakdown which always follow. Finally, our day, when it has been marshalled into the great and complex field of social service in the whirl of a confused economic world, where, in the midst of plenty, want, suffering, frustration, and discouragement stalk the land. From the beginning the Relief Society has been committed to a twophased mission, representing the loftiest heights of Christian idealism —a mission first of relief to the poor, the orphan, the sick and the needy; second, and of great importance, a mission of spiritual support and uplift to the discouraged, the wavering and the tempted. Never failing, never flinching, this great Organization of women has kept aloft its noble banners through the colorful vicissitudes of nearly one hundred eventful years. In the days that are ahead, as this great Church Welfare Program unfolds and vastly greater opportunities and like responsibilities appear, the women of the Church of our day should ever keep in mind the glory of that background and, sustained by its power and stimulation, meet the new challenge. In order to combat effectively the 604 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE complicated and serious economic and social conditions existing today, the Church Authorities called into the field of social service, or social welfare, all the great forces of the Church organization for an attack upon all fronts. Without a fundamental change in organic form, this undertaking has been launched with closely coordinated organization between the various Priesthood quorums, the man power of the Church, and the Relief Society, the woman power of the Church. This has extended from the head down through the stakes and wards. The Regional Unit IN order to group the stakes of the Church into units, in so far as possible, of economic self-sufficiency, Regions were created, the Salt Lake Region being typical. This Region comprises sixteen stakes located in Salt Lake, Davis, and Tooele Counties and contains 143 wards and branches and approximately 120,000
Church members.
Presiding over this large unit is a Regional Council, consisting of stake representatives from each of the following groups: Stake Presidency Bishop's Council, Chairman of Relief Society Presidency Male and female Work Directors Agricultural Committee A Regional Co-ordinator acts as executive officer. For efficient correlation and stimulation of activity, monthly Regional meetings are held at which, after a short general session, intensive, well planned departmental sessions are conducted by the five groups above named.
Important plans and programs, requiring time and special study, such as various agricultural, fruit and vegetable canning projects, group hospitalization, general housing and temple apartment-housing plans, the production of meat, dairy, poultry, cereal, soap, and wood products, and other project activities are assigned to quorum, ward, stake and Regional committees.
Serving on these are men and women especially trained in each field to make thorough investigations and reports. The important policies and programs adopted by the Regional Council are carried by spoken word as well as by written proceedings back to stake and ward welfare units for placing into actual operation. Economic SELF-SUFFICIENCY IT is fundamental that in order to efficiently realize the objectives announced by the Presiding Authorities of furnishing life's vital necessities to the needy faithful members of the Church and employment to those otherwise unemployed but able to work that, up to the very limit of the natural resources of our land, we must produce within the Program those elements of food, clothing, fuel, and shelter which are needed.
Projects are, and must continue to be, put into operation that will produce these things. "Program Produced Commodities" must be the slogan. The Program Produced Commodity index must be raised higher and higher in order to accomplish the twin vital aims of furnishing employment and achieving, as nearly as possible, economic selfsufficiency within the Program.