Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1908.						No. 3.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im- 
	pressions..................Emmeline B. Wells	17
Letter from New South Wales...................Jett	19
A Unique Gathering .........................E. W. B.	19
Testimonial.....................................................	21
Relief Society Conjoint Meeting and Banquet
	.........................................Nellie Becraft	21
In Memoriam of Mary Anderson....................	22
Keep the Sabbath Day Holy............................
	...............................Caroline C. R. Wells	24
Notes and News..............................................	24
Relief Society Stake Reports: Granite—Nebo	19
	Panguitch................................................	22
	Alpine.....................................................	23
Editorial:—The Political Situation in Utah....	20
	Be Valiant for Rights..............................	20
Poetry:—The Spencer Tree............................
	..................................Josephine Spencer	17


[COLUMN 1]
	THE SPENCER TREE.
Hand hath not traced to what far time
	The tree’s first acorn grew
Before that day when Saxon soil
	Our own forefathers drew
From foreign shores to mix their blood
	With that historic strain
Which, warmed by Persecution’s breath
	Flowed in the Pilgrim’s vein—
The blood that fired the Puritan
	For his sole Conscience sake
The sacrifice of land and home
	With ready zeal to make.
Numbered among the exile band
	That fled from native shore
Their altars on New England’s soil
	Triumphant rose once more,—
And braving famine, peril, death—
	They helped to build in time
A sturdy commonwealth which grew
	To measure every clime.
Their names were with the patriot band
	When Revolution flung
Its banners high for Liberty;—
	They heard its victory sung!
And all they suffered, all they won
	Strengthened the strain of those
Forefathers of our nearer time
	Whose blood within us flows.
Time passed, and Peace enjoined its sway;
	Till down the path of years
A greater call to Conscience came
	With trail of strife and tears;
A sign of faith, from earth and heaven—
	Met by the world’s cold scorn
Which grew to Persecution’s war
	Till deeds of blood were sown.
But still, to Faith’s old leadings true,
	The strain of bygone sires
Leapt in the veins of sturdy sons
	And lit Religion’s fires—
—To be a pillared cloud by night
	To light them on their way,
Oft, too, a mournful funeral pyre
	Which charred their hopes each day.
Old altars of self Sacrifice
	On their new way were reared—
Home, kindred, wealth were all the price
	For faith and truth revered.
Three sons—we know and love them well
	Who gather here tonight,
Three whom in memory we revere
	With token of this sight—
Heard, and responded to that call
	Which kindled Conscience blaze—
And built for us this gardened spot
	To pass our peaceful days.
Some first few branches yet remain
	Of this ancestral tree,
The sap still fresh within their veins,
	Their minds still clear and free.

[Column 2]
Each annual gathering sees each face
	And feels each active hand
A staunch supporter of the cause
	That links the family band.
There’s Theron, Claudius and George
	There’s Howard, Mary Leone,
Aurelia, too, and Katherine,
	All children who have known
Those early days of pilgrim stress
	Our valiant fathers knew
Welding for them the stronger tie
	Which this close pathway drew.
The younger branches and their sprouts—
	How can we name them all?
The list a lengthy volume’s task—
	An army’s muster call:
But midst these leaves full many a name
	May rise to worthy hight,
In lists of proud Achievement’s fame
	Or tournaments of Right’
Some there have been, who but for choice
	And love of humbler lot,
Might have drawn Fame’s triumphant prize
	With honors nobly wrought.
Edith,* we know, had she essayed
	To tread a mimic stage
Would mateh Maud Adams side by side
	On proud theatric page.
Another of that lineal branch
	Gives promise yet, to gain
Proud laurels in his new career
	In Music’s high domain.
But gifted, humble, rich or poor
	We own humility
Before the three, thrice-honored names
	Which make our family tree.
And older, younger—joined to them
	By blood or marriage link,
All render here a wish that time
	May lead us yet to drink
Some measure of the laurelled cup
	Which pledges the three names
That stand for sacrifice to Truth
	And all that Conscience claims
And if we may not win ourselves
	This prize that crowned their day,
May their high effort bring to us
	A privilege to stay
At least within some kindred place
	When Time’s last race is run—
Where we may greet them face to face—
	And hear them say “Well done!”
				JOSEPHINE SPENCER.

* Edith Clawson Knowlton.
✝︎ Spencer Clawson, Jun.


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS.
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS
	In perusing the pages of history, and in re-
counting events that have transpired in this
Church, one finds so much material to make
use of, that is hard to choose from and even
among the women, who in the earlier days
had not the opportunities for public life, that
those have had who were of a younger gen-
eration; yet one finds them great in the sphere
in which they moved, and among their as-
sociates and nobly great considering environ-
ment. One writer has said “great in small
things,” yet in looking into their history we
find that the great drama of life as enacted
in that early period has been full of stirring
events and sacrifices.
	In my mind’s eye I have a vivid picture of

[Column 2]
two young women, whom I met at a friend’s
house, soon after my arrival in Nauvoo; and
both of them (they were sisters) were parti-
cularly striking in appearance. They were
modest in manner, yet dignified, tall and
blooming with health, quite a contrast to
many (pale faces for it was an ague climate), I
might say to the majority of women, because
of their rosy lips and cheeks. The impres-
sion they made was of vigor, strength of
character, and reposefulness. They were
spoken of as the “Partridge girls,” and their
names Eliza and Emily, were linked together
with a sort of tone that indicated the closest
relationship. Afterwards coming in friendly
contact, I found them unlike in many re-
spects, though they harmonized well, and
were very fondly attached to each other.
These two young girls had as children passed
through many trying scenes of sacrifice and
danger, thrilling experiences, such as young
women now cannot appreciate nor perhaps
can any one, except when placed in like cir-
cumstances. Their parents had been well-
to-do people, who had in the early times of 
Western migration left comfortable homes
in New England, to go to the Western Re-
serve in Ohio, which was considered a land
of better facilities for making homes, than
the stony hills of their native state Massa-
chusetts.
	This young couple became acquainted
and married in Ohio. It was destiny no
doubt; they settled in Painesville, Geauga Co.,
Ohio, where they purchased land and built up
a home and had great hopes of educating their
children. This home was later on, a very
popular one among the little handful of early
believers in the Everlasting Gospel; and Ed-
ward Partridge the father of the two young
maidens mentioned, that I had met on that
auspicious day now far remote; was ordained
the first Bishop of the Church, and the family
were among the first converts in what seemed-
then “that far distant land.”
	Without going into family history though
well-authenticated as to descent; the writer
only desires to give her impressions of these
young women, as she knew them. There is
no doubt that the trying ordeals through
which one passes in childhood’s days have
a lasting effect upon the mind and character
as the years roll on.
	The persecutions in Kirtland, the more
terrible outrages, mobbings, drivings and
imprisonments in Missouri of fathers, break-
ing up of family ties, rendering children
homeless, necessarily, leaves its impress
upon the plastic minds of children, and as a
natural sequence upon the generations fol-
lowing.
	Soon after arriving in Nauvoo in conse-
quence of privations, imprisonment, and at-
tendant consequences, Bishop Partridge pas-
sed away, leaving his family destitute of a
home in that new region, and it fell to the lot
of the two older girls to be taken into the
family of the Prophet Joseph Smith, where
they lived for some time, members of that
hospitable household.
	It is a remarkable fact that whoever came
within the influence of the Prophet Joseph
partook more or lees of his spirit and became
imbued, as it were so strongly with his won-


[Column 2]
derful atmosphere that it entered into their
life, thus becoming part of their very exis-
tence. The association was of such a lofty
and sacred nature, that in yielding to his
teachings and ministrations, the tendency
towards his ideals became engrafted upon
their hearts. This has been noticable in
some instances, and the writer has in mind
two very powerful proofs of this impression-
ism.
	Be that as it may, there is no doubt that
both Eliza and Emily Partridge partook in
a large degree of the spirit and teaching of
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	They were earnest and devoted followers
of the principles taught and promulgated by
this great and holy man of God. They were
ready and willing to sacrifice all on the altar
of their faith. Firm as the rock of ages in
the principles of truth revealed through him
in this dispensation.
	The memory of all such holy women the
Latter-day Saints should cherish and honor.
	After the death of the Prophet the Saints
were expelled from their homes, and the be-
loved city and Temple of “Nauvoo the
Beautiful” was left behind, while the exiled
people wandered in the wilderness, until
they reached the promised land, the valley
of the Great Salt Lake.
	But I am digressing and touching on re-
miniscences instead of giving you pen pict-
ures of the women whose names have been
mentioned.
	Sister Eliza Maria Partridge Lyman was
a woman of uncommon natural ability and
spirituality; she had much force of character
and great fortitude and powers of endurance,
was able to cope with difficulties and to bear
the burdens of others. The heroic type, dis-
playing in her life the attributes of her Puri-
tanical ancestry largely developed. She was
a tower of strength to look upon, and in her
life displayed those virtues and characteris-
tics that shine forth and illumine the humb-
lest home, as well as adorn the palaces of
the great and the noble of the earth.
	This grand women did not shrink from
colonizing and doing frontier work wherever
she was called to go in connection with her
husband, and his family; and such a wife
and mother would in the natural course of
family life have sons, that would make their
way in the world of mankind as distinguished
from the common place masses of men, and
daughters as noble and pure as herself. Such
women as Eliza Partridge Lyman are likely
to have sons that will attain to meritorious
distinction. She was undoubtedly a woman
of destiny, she had the courage of a martyr,
and of one, who was not only ready to die
for an unpopular principle of her faith, but
to live for it, and to bear the ignominy and
slander of those who persecute and condemn
those of other faith, and know not why.
The names of these illustrious heroines who
heard the Prophet’s voice, and listened to
his teachings, making divine principle the
rule of their lives should be held in honor-
able remembrance by all Israel, and especi-
ally should the Daughters of Zion emulate
their virtues and follow their example.
Among those saintly women of the early
days in the Church whose lives have stood
for righteousness, and who have never
wavered, no matter how trying the ordeal,
we count as one of the very foremost the
name of E[-]iza Lyman.
	Eliza Maria Partridge Lyman, born April
20, 1820, in Painesville, Geauga Co., Ohio.
Died at Oak City, Millard Co., Utah, March
2, 1886.

[Column 2]
	Emily Dow Partridge Young, was also
one of the renowned women of the days of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. The children
of Brother and Sister Partridge imbibed in
childhood’s days, those pure principles of
the Gospel that grew up with them and
that have descended upon their posterity.
	One could not help feeling when in the
company of Sister Emily Young, that she was
a woman in whom one could repose implicit
confidence with entire safety. She was a
very handsome woman, one who made a
fine appearance even in homespun, both of
make and material. Industry with her
was a virtue, she was an early riser, and
active in all household pursuits, possessing
in a marked degree the Yankee character-
istic of thrift, and econonomical withal
making things go farther or last longer
than many of her associates. In the days
when everything was manufactured by hand
in the home, she was equal to the situation,
her carding, spinning, dyeing, and hand-
sewing, plain or fancy stitching, knitting,
darning, soap and candle making were all
of the very best, never, or rarely ever a
failure in any of of the various depart-
ments of the work of the primitive home;
neatness and order in its perfection in the
apartments of “Aunt Emily” Young,
whether in the log row, the Lion House,
or when occupying her own house later in
life. Like her illustrious sister she remem-
bered the terrible scenes enacted in Mis-
souri, and could relate them in private
conversation in a most graphic style, but
could never be induced to speak in public,
yet her friends and admirers were confident
she could have made a most interesting
public speaker. She certainly had much
to tell of her vivid experiences of the cir-
cumstances that transpired in her childhood
and youthful days, and of which she had
been an eye witness.
	Sister Young was finally persuaded to
write an Autobiograpdy which was pub-
lished in the Woman’s Exponent in 1885,
running through several numbers. Much
of this interesting sketch is devoted to the
changes and vicissitudes and jonrneyings
of the Church, and the persecutions of the
Saints, particularly of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and her own father, Bishop Ed-
ward Partridge and correspondence between
these two great men at that period of time.
	But it is not my object to rehearse these
things, but to present a sort of pen picture
of the woman herself as she impressed the
writer, that our young women may have a
glimpse of her beautiful life of self-sacrifice
and devotion to duty, and her delightful
personality. Sister Emily Young was a
woman of mighty faith, and of unbounded
charity towards those who were unfortunate,
afflicted or erring; one of her estimable
virtues was that she never spoke ill of any
one, and invariably reproved the young peo-
ple around her whenever she heard slanders
repeated. Her motto was,

“Nay, speak no ill, a kindly word
	Will never leave a sting behind,
But O, to breathe each tale we’ve heard,
	Is far beneath a noble mind.”

	As to a grand and noble woman, possess-
ing all those delightful traits of mind and
character, as well as devotion and activities
that adorn motherhood and home life, and
that make for the best in social surround-
ings, of all these qualities, she was the very
embodiment and exemplification in full
measure.
	One ought not to deplore the innate mod-

[Column 3]
esty and reticence of a woman who could
not and would not come before the public;
that is not to be considered for a moment
in estimating the worth of womanhood.
Sister Emily Young was in every way lov-
able, genial, a true wife and mother, a
woman who was obedient to every com-
mandment, who walked uprightly, and
worked righteousness, who was more willing
to listen than to attempt to teach. In the
opinion of the writer she was the old-
fashioned type of the Puritan woman, per-
haps something of the Quaker type, quite as
modest and as delicate in sentiment, as
Longfellow’s Elizabeth in “Tales of a Way-
side Inn.”
	Sister Emily Young certainly possessed
intellectual gifts that lay dormant; on rare
occasions with her intimate friends one be-
came aware of her latent talents in this
direction, but she was so timid and over-
sensitive, that even women who could influ-
ence seemingly the most diffident ones
among the sisters (Sister Eliza R. Snow)
totally failed to bring out a response in any
public manner from Emily P. Young.
Though she greatly admired these gifts in
others, and was anxious to have incidents
of the early days related for the benefit of
our young people, yet she had no confidence
to speak for herself.
	Undoubtedly had Sister Emily Young
been encouraged earlier in life to cultivate
her gift for writing, she might have given to
the world reminiscences of the most thrill-
ing episodes that have ever transpired
among the Saints, as a personal eye-witness.
As it is we have a beautiful life to contem-
late: among her many virtues we can num-
ber patience, resignation in times of great
sorrows and trying ordeals; fortitude, the
courage of religious convictions without any
reservation, purity of life beyond all ques-
tion. Sister Emily Young taught her chil-
dren faith by precept and example in the
ways of the Lord, and she was one of the
most distinguished heroines of the Church,
she was valiant for the truth and unflinch-
ing in her integrity to the Gospel, and as
firm in her convictions of the divinity of
the mission of Joseph Smith, the Prophet
as are the everlasting hills; for the faith and
the principles thereof she made great and
noble sacrifices.
	These notable women who have passed
away deserve the widest recognition from
those who are living today, and to have
their histories written by the most talented
among our people, for they have helped to
lay the foundation of a superstructure that
is to stand throughout all time, and have
helped to establish eternal principles that
reach far beyond this mortal life, into the
Celestial kingdom.
	For these two great women whose names
and pen pictures are linked together here,
what better can be said than this, that their
“children rise up and call them blessed,”
and all Israel say Amen.
	Emily Dow Partridge Young, born in
Painesville, Geauga County, Ohio, February
28, 1824. Died in Salt Lake City, Decem-
ber 9, 1899.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Independence League of Illinois has
put a woman’s suffrage plank in its platform.
	Mrs. Alice B. Clark, now serving her
second term as superintendent of schools
for Garfield County, Col., has been endorsed
by the normal institute for state superin-
tendent of public instruction on a non-
partisan basis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
LETTER FROM NEW SOUTH WALES.
				Friday, August 28th 1908.
Dear Claire:—
	Have only time to commence this letter,
as I expect papa and Mrs. Nichols over by
next boat, but there is so much to be crowded
in between this and next Monday (when the
“Marama” sails,) that I must make use of
every minute. The fleet has been here, and
gone, and I am sure it will take a full week
for people to settle down to normal condition
again. As Vio Little used to say, I am still “so
full of excitements,” that my head is thumping
with neuralgia, and I feel like a wilted flow-
er, with no strength or ambition left. But
how glad I am that I was blessed with the
privilege of witnessing this grand spectacle,
and how proud of my country that she could
do this most wonderful thing. No words of
mine can convey to you how beautiful it all
was. The people of Sidney spared neither
trouble nor expense to make the city and
harbor a perfect picture. It was a revelation
to me in decoration. Not just a few great
gilded eagles, shields done in our national
colors, and a few yards of bunting, but hun-
dreds of them, and flags by the thousands.
Several of the principal streets were literal
bowers of flags and strips of bunting. Besides
this thousands of yards of ropes of evergreen
festooned on both sides of streets. Think of
the labor and cost of such decorations, but
the beauty of it is beyond my poor powers
of description. The Parks, Botanical Gar-
dens, principal buildings and streets were a
blaze of electric lights, in our colors. Great
statues of liberty were erected in several
places, and Queen Victoria’s statue, which
stands in McQuarrie street, was encircled
with poles from which were festooned strings
of electric lights (in red, white and blue)
and the space inside this circle was a mass
of palms, ferns, and other beautiful plants.
The word “Welcome” appeared here, there
and every where, in electric lights. Balls,
garden parties, dinners, lunches, concerts,
theatres, all sorts of games and sports weregiven every day and evening, besides trips
by train and boat to the wonderful caves and
water falls, Medlow baths, etc., were given.
All street cars, ferries, launches, etc. gave
free transportation to officers and sailors
alike. People with automobiles would stop
whenever they saw a bunch of sailors walk-
ing, ask them to get in, and off they would
go. Everything was as free as the air, to one
and all. It was just wonderful and splendid,
from first to last, and made one glad to be
alive.
	We took rooms and board for the entire
week, at a place called “Highroid” and from
our balcony could see sixteen of the ships,
also look across the bay to Sydney and see
the fireworks and illumination. (The fire-
works cost over $5,000.00.) Every night from
7 to 10 o’clock the battle ships were a blaze
of electric lights, and on Saturday night they
illuminated with search lights throwing great
arms of light all over the harbor, and far out
to sea.
	Should I write all day I could not make
you understand, nor could you conceive of
the grandeur and beauty of the scene. One
morning we had a shower, then the sun
shone out suddenly, and there appeared a
rainbow, which (I believe) can only be pro-
duced in a tropical land. It cast its radiance
over eight or ten of those great white ships,
but on two of them one end seemed to rest.
I assure you I never saw a more magnificent
picture in all my life. I was spell-bound,
and neither wished to speak nor hear a sound,

[Column 2]
I only wanted to gaze until the beautiful
picture faded from my view, and this I did.
How I enjoyed hearing the ship’s bands play-
ing “The Star Spangled Banner”—“Hail
Columbia” and other soul stirring airs. Only
those can understand, who like me, have heard
them in a far off land. I just trembled with
loyal enthusiasm, and loved my country
better than ever. Papa is sending you a
copy of “The Town and Country Journal,”
which is filled with illustrations, some of
which are very good. We only came back
home yesterday, and found plenty to do—
but every thing is once more in order, and
it seems good to be here, and to be quiet
again.
	Sunday Evening. I have been obliged to
use pencil and carbon paper—because my
time was so taken that I could not write to you,
and my children all about the fleet, unless
I made several copies at one time, so please
forgive me. I have just re-read your letter,
and there are many items I would like to
mention, but I am very tired, so we’ll let
this go as it is. Ada Dwyer has spent today
with us and we have talked over the days of
our childhood—and of mutual friends at
home till my head is aching—and I’m sure
she is tired. Dell and Dorothy took her back
to her hotel in Sydney. She is playing “Mrs.
Wiggs” to crowded houses—and every body
loves her, both off and on the stage.
	Dearest love to all at 417. With a kiss
and a prayer for your welfare—we’ll say good
night.						JETT.


A UNIQUE GATHERING.
	Mrs. Andrew J. Stewart, Jr., entertained
in honor of her mother, Mrs. Jane Riggs,’
80th birthday fifteen of Provo’s leading
society ladies of forty years ago. They all
crossed the plains with ox teams, have been
acquainted and all lived here 40 years. All
are widows except two; their combined ages
1129 years. The ladies present were: Mrs.
Jane Riggs, aged 89; Mrs. Eggertsen, aged
83; Mrs. Emmeline Miller. aged 81; Mrs.
Marinda Glazier, aged 78; Mrs. Marilla Dan-
iels, aged 78; Mrs, Lucinda Southworth,
aged 77; Mrs. Electa Bullock, aged 74, Mrs.
Flora Maiben, aged 78; Mrs. Sarah L. Turn-
er, aged 73; Mrs. Anna Peay, aged 71; Mrs.
Martha Bullock, aged 70; Mrs. Emma Bul-
lock, aged 68; Mrs. Anna Nelson, aged 68
Mrs. Martha A. Harris. aged 67. A delicious
luncheon was served. Mrs. Electa Bullock
read several birthday poems in her usual
beautiful way. and Mrs. Hannah Clark sang
“The Two Martyrs,” which was greatly
appreciated.					E. W. B.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		GRANITE STAKE.
	Granite Stake Relief Society conference
convened at the Stake Tabernacle, Septem-
ber 15, 1908, at 10 a. m., President Emma
S. Woodruff presiding.
	Sisters Rebecca Nibley and Minnie H.
James of the General Board were present.
Reports from a number of local presidents
showed an inerease of enthusiasm in all
branches of R. S. work.
	Sisters Nibley and James then addressed
the conference on various subjects and ad-
monished the sisters to continue faithful
to the Relief Society and the great work of
the Lord.
	The afternoon session was devoted to the
life of “Daniel H. Wells” and the program
was rendered by members of his family.

[Column 2]
	Biographical sketch of his life was read
by Elder Joseph S. Wells.
	Poems relating to incidents in his life were
read by Victor P. Wells, Annette Wells
Culmer, and Annie Wells Cannon. Piano
solo by Sister Grace Grant. Reminiscences
were given by Sisters Lydia A., Hannah C.
and Emmeline B. Wells, of the great and
noble life of him who was ever true to his
country, his conscience, his brethren, his
religion and his God.
	The musical exercises were especially
good and the Stake Relief Society choir did
some good work.
	A banquet was held between meetings,
and a good time was enjoyed by all who
were present.
			LUCY M. GEREN,
				Assistant Secretary.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Nebo Stake held at Santaquin, Utah, March
20, 1908. Conference convened at 10 a. m.,
Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	After opening exercises, Sister Teitjen,
president of Santaquin ward made a few
opening remarks and reported her ward. Sis-
ter Cappel, one of the stake board gave
some good instruction and encouragement
to the Relief Society sisters.
	Sister Forcey, president of Mammoth
ward, reported all in good condition. Sis-
ter Price reported Goshen ward. Sister
Brown reported Eureka ward. Sister Moore,
president of Spring Lake, reported that ward.
	The choir sang “Peace, be still.”
	Sister Brown of the stake board spoke of
the training of our children to have pure
thoughts and pure acts, “We should al-
ways tell our children the truth, and never
tell them anything we don’t mean. All the
women in the Church, should belong to the
Relief Society or the Y. L. M. I. A., and
should teach their children to pray when
they are very young. Spoke of the feeling
among our people; said the mission of
motherhood on earth, is to multiply and
replenish the earth; also spoke on the
power of prayer and related some instances
in the Book of Mormon on that subject,
Sister Evans of the stake board gave an ex-
ercise from the little book entitled “A
Swarm of Bees,” and some very beautiful
thoughts were brought out.
	Afternoon session, President Eliza J. Dix-
on presiding.
	After singing and prayer, Sister Town-
send read a notice from the general board
concerning the nurses’ class under the
auspices of the Relief Society. Song by
Leona Boyle, entitled, “My heart’s tonight
in Tennessee.” Sister Mary P. Harding
gave an exercise on parents’ class work,
subject “Physical punishment of children.”
	Sister Cappel spoke on the spiritual du-
ities of parents to their children, also on the
word of wisdom, and the necessity of our
keeping it as a people and the blessings that
are promised by so doing.
	Quartette by members of choir entitled
“Drifting with the tide.”
	Sister Hawkins spoke on the labor of the
Relief Society and the necessity of our
young people being trained in the Gospel.
Bishop Holiday made some very timely re-
marks. Sister Dixon spoke on our duties
in the Church. Brother Roberts testified of
the Spirit of the Lord being with us on this
occasion, also of the necessity of nurses.
	Closed by singing, and benediction by
President Lemon.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor Sec.


20	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	OCTOBER, 1908.


[Column 1]	
THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN UTAH.
	There have been few political campaigns
in Utah which presented more vital issues
or were of deeper general significance than
the one in which we are now engaged. In
common with their fellow-citizens through-
out the nation, the people of this State are
keenly interested in the great national con-
test, and partake of the enthusiasm which
attends its successive phases and develop-
ments. Those whose affiliations and sympa-
thies are with the Republican party find
much to please them in the vigorous utter-
ances and the energetic campaigning of Mr.
Taft, supported by the strenuous backing of
President Roosevelt and the mighty assist-
ance of experienced party leaders. Those
who incline to the Democratic party, either
by reason of fondness for its principles or
admiration for its standard-bearer, are filled
with joy at the popular favor with which Mr.
Bryan is everywhere received and the ap-
plause which his letters and orations evoke.
Utah Republicans and Utah Democrats are
accordingly quite as hopeful, as eager, and
as interested as are their fellow-citizens in
Maine, Texas, Florida or Oregon in the great
game which is now being played before the
eyes of an eager constituency, and on the
merits of which the people will pass judg-
ment on the 3rd of next November.
	But here at home we have additional rea-
sons for approaching the ballot box next
November with sober and thoughful earnest-
ness. There are questions at issue which
should lie close to the heart of every good
citizen. At least one of these appeals espe-
cially to women—we refer to the splendidly-
growing sentiment in favor of temperance,
and the likelihood that with the election of
good legislators, the liquor traffic may be
restrained. It is the boast and the belief of
the friends of equal suffrage that the influ-
ence of women in politics and at the polls
is healthful and purifying. Here is an op-
portunity to make proof of the one and give
strength to the other. Men may, and per-
haps from sincere conviction sometimes do,
disagree as to the merits or desirability of
prohibition. Women do not. There is no
question about it in their minds. If their
votes could decide the issue, it would speedi-
ly be settled. Is it not proper to expect,
therefore, and to urge, that they shall avail
themselves at this time of every right of
citizenship which they enjoy? It seems to
us that any woman who through neglect or
indifference at this important moment fails
to register and to vote, shows but a feeble

[Column 2]
conception of her duty and a pitiful dis-
regard of the righteous power reposing in
her hands.
	Another issue of purely local importance,
but surely of enormous and terrible signific-
ance here where it is best understood, is the
announced threat that in the event of the
success of a certain faction in Salt Lake
County, a large number of the foremost cit-
izens of the community will be driven either
into exile or into the penitentiary. At the
recent convention of the so-called “Ameri-
can” party this infamous declaration was
officially made, and it was cheered to the
echo. Certain “Twenty-six” were referred
to as coming under this threat and consigned
to this fate—these “twenty-six” being the
general authorities of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, both Democrats
and Republicans, some of them men who
by their most bitter and vindictive ene-
mies have never even been accused of hav-
ing broken any law. It is true, the
astounding brutality of such a program re-
vealed itself on second thought to those who
had so madly applauded it; and the shrewder
of them promptly affected to lament, if not
the plan, at least the revelation of it. As a
political weapon it promises to recoil with
much severity upon its original wielders. But
that a program so vile should even have been
thought of, much less mentioned, evidences
a depravity that otherwise would have been
hard to fasten upon any faction seeking sup-
port from popular suffrage. If it means any-
thing at all, it means that if that faction shall
be successful the angry elements of discord
are again to be called up, the reeking hounds
of persecution again to be let slip, in this
prosperous and peaceful land. Is such a
prospect pleasing to those, whether Mormon,
Jew or Gentile, who live and expect to live
here? Their answer ought to be found, writ-
ten plain and decisive, in the ballot-box next
November. Those who fail to help in mak-
ing that answer clear and unmistakable, those
who neglect their part in administering re-
buke to a crew who would gorge and fatten
upon a community’s woes, may not be shar-
ers in the foul plot, but they show sure symp-
toms of the fatal complacency which fiddles
and sings while riot reigns and the world
burns. 
	For the foregoing and for other reasons which
might be cited, the forthcoming election is
full of moment to the people of this State
and this intermountain country; and the
Exponent feels fully justified in urging upon
all its readers the solemn duty of voting, and
of exercising that right with the true intel-
ligence and the conscientious prudence which
the gravity of the situation demands.


[Column 1]
	BE VALIANT FOR RIGHTS.
	These are strenuous times; and just be-
fore election always is to those interested in
the great questions of the country’s welfare
and of its good government. Perhaps there
is no people more desirous of righteous, con-
sistent and wholesome laws and fair-deal-
ing than the Latter-day Saints. This land,
America, has been dedicated by the Consti-
tution to liberty, and one might add, con-
secrated by the blood of the Revolutionary
sires, who fought to establish freedom and
equal rights for all mankind, of whatever
faith or from whatever clime. That these
civil rights may not be subverted to un-
righteous ends and purposes, is the wish
and hope of every true-born and honorable
citizen, man or woman.
	When one becomes aware of the trickery,

[Column 2]
chicanery and treachery used in manipulat-
ing governmental affairs, it makes one fear
and tremble for the future safety and guid-
ance at the great centres of popular admin-
istration, whether in states or the country
at large.
	In our own fair state of Utah, of which
we are so justly proud, and for which so
many of us have labored and striven for
more than half a century, there has arisen
to the horror and dismay of all fair-minded
people of whatever creed, a faction that
would, if possible supplant the original in-
heritors of the rights so dearly purchased by
toil, hardship and privation, in wresting this
alkali desert from barrenness, and building
towns and cities, cultivating farms and or-
chards and gardens, and in every possible
way making it desirable for the establish-
ment of a great commonwealth here in the
mountains, far from the great cities of civil-
tion; in view of these things, one cannot
help recalling the circumstances and the
struggles of the pioneer life.
	The sacrifices made in coming hither
leaving homes and kindred, and the advan-
tages of surroundings that their own fore-
fathers had helped to establish, coming, too
without the comforts and supplies that
would have lessened in a degree the hard-
ships that must be encountered in such
long and tedious journeyings, and when one
reflects upon the loved ones laid down by
the wayside, in consequence of these condi-
tions, and all the perils incident to early
struggles for life and sustenance, one is hor-
rified at the thought that such threats could
be expressed as have been uttered and pub-
lished to the world.
	However, the trust of the Latter-day
Saints is in God, who has guided their foot-
steps to this goodly land, where they have
been able to accomplish greater things than
could have been anticipated when struggl-
ing for bread against hordes of crickets and
grasshoppers, to say nothing of wolves and
snakes and wild Indians that were here in
abundance.
	How the courage of men and women
held out is an enigma only to be solved in
the belief of their mighty faith and constant
prayers for help from on high.
	Suffice to say, the people lived and pros-
pered to the amazement of all who knew of
the circumstances, and now, when seeming-
ly all who gather here “Mormon, Jew or
Gentile” might be at peace and comfortable
if they would observe even proper, common-
place, everyday courtesy to one another,
pursuing their own vocations and not im-
posing on the rights of others there would
be peace, plenty, and prosperity.
	For one cannot help knowing that the
Lord has prospered the people in this great
mountain region almost beyond belief, when
one looks back upon sixty years of exper-
ience, and knowing thoroughly how severe
the struggles for an existence were, and how
miraculously many times the outcome has
been  brought about, when darkness hung
like a heavy cloud over the way. There-
fore those who trust in the Lord need not
fear, for the outcome, for assuredly right
will triumph over wrong though the powers
of evil combine.
	So many times the Latter day Saints have
seen the hand of the Almighty manifest in
their deliverance that there should be no
fear of danger, it will be diverted and fall
to naught if there is union among the peo-
ple.
	It is certainly desirable at the present
time that every one should conscientiously


and prayerfully view the situation in this 
city, county and state, and be sure they do 
so without prejudice or partisanship, and 
know each one for himself or herself, the 
serious consequences of throwing power into 
the hands of those who have sought to gain 
their own ends by fraud and deception. In 
this state where women have equal privileges 
with men they should be on the alert and 
active in season and out of season, in using 
their utmost influence as well as their ballot 
in and for all measures for the suppressing 
of vice and immorality of every sort, that 
the children and youth in this state may be 
protected as far as possible by law, that they 
may not be tempted to wrong-doing because of
the negligence of those who control public 
matters, that no unclean or wicked practices 
may have any sort of foothold in our city or 
county or be upheld by law or license. 
Every woman should, by her utmost in-
fluence, aid good, honest, honorable men in 
putting away all that is obnoxious and 
offensive to society and people, so far as it 
can be done by those who hold the balance 
of power in the franchise. 
	That this city may be free from anything 
that would pollute its clear, moral atmos-
phere, that Utah may be the pride of the 
West in temperance, morality and all the 
qualifications necessary to entitle her to 
take highest place among her sister states. 
Women with the ballot should be able to 
do much towards uplifting a standard of ex-
cellence for others to follow who do not have 
this precious gift, and that the women of 
Utah may stand fast for the betterment of 
society in all its various phases and avenues 
and especially for the purity of the home let 
us watch and pray always.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TESTIMONIAL. 
TOKEN OF ESTEEM TO SISTER JANE S. 
RICHARDS. 
"Honor to whom honor is due," is an 
adage worthy of one's acceptance, yet how
rarely do we pause on life's highway long 
enough to give utterance to the thoughts 
that well in our hearts. Though we all 
appreciate appreciation, we fail to give it to 
others. 
So oft we check the loving word, leave deepest 
thought unsaid, 
Till friends are gone, then roses bring to scatter 
o'er our dead; 
O when shall we this lesson learn, save through 
regret and sorrow. 
That better kind words today, than roses on the 
morrow. 
	And so today we, the sisters of the Relief 
Society of the old Weber Stake of Zion, 
have come to tell you that we appreciate 
your long and faithful services in our midst. 
We love you for your true worth and for that 
you have done; for that broad charity that 
has been exemplified in your life. To quote 
your own favorite creed, "We did not all 
have the same mother," and so failings 
have been overlooked and the friendly hand 
extended; no cry of distress has reached 
your ears in vain; the naked have been
clothed, the hungry fed, the sick com-
forted, the dying soothed and the dead pre-
pared for their last long sleep. 
Shoulder to shoulder you have stood, 
with the best women that have ever graced 
the earth, Sister Eliza, Aunt Zina, and Aunt 
Bathsheba. With them your labors have 
reached through the different Stakes of Zion 
and to the nation of which we form a part. 
Not alone has the Relief Society been


blessed through your labors’ but the Y. L. 
M. I. A., owes its inception, birth and exist-
ence to your untiring efforts. It was Sister
Richards’ heart that yearned after the wel-
fare of the young girls, she it was, who as 
early as 1873 called a meeting of the young 
women of Ogden, including girls over eight
years of age. This meeting was so prolific 
of good that others were pleaded for and for 
six years they continued, finally culminat-
ing in the organization of the Y. L. M. I
A., on May 10, 1879. 
	Time fails us to enumerate the good you 
have accomplished, but your name must 
necessarily be forever linked with the his-
tory of the Relief Society. Home industries; 
the storing of wheat and many other good 
things have received your fostering care and 
untiring energy. 
	The whitening snow of winters, the 
scorching sun of summers have found you 
at your post of duty, until the Priesthood of 
the Lord have said, “It is enough”
	Your day of labor is past, twilight has 
come, enjoy your beautiful evening in peace; 
let nothing mar your quiet; hold sweet com-
munion with angels and loved ones, and as 
twilight deepens into night, and the mists 
gather around you, may our Father’s sus-
taining power be with you, the joy of a well-
spent life enlighten the gloom; may your 
vision penetrate the shadows, and, like 
Moses, may you view the better land where 
await your loved ones and all the sanctified 
in the Celestial Kingdom of our God.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONJOINT MEETING
AND BANQUET
In honor of the retiring President of Weber 
Stake JANE S. RICHARDS. 
On September 10, 1908, the Relief Society 
of Weber County, heretofore comprising the
Weber Stake of Zion, held its last quarterly 
conference. The stake had grown to such 
proportions that it was deemed proper, for 
its better development to divide it into three 
stakes, which will hereafter be known as 
Weber, Ogden and North Weber stakes. This 
conference was long to be remembered by 
those present. For 37 years President Jane S. 
Richards has held sway over the hearts and 
lives of the sisters of this stake, and it was 
to do honor to her that the people came out 
en masse. 
There were present on this occasion, 
Apostle David O. McKay, Presidents of the 
Weber, Ogden and North Weber stakes, Elder 
Franklin S. Richards of Salt Lake, bishops 
and other leading brethren, General Relief 
Society Secretary Emmeline B. Wells and 
Emily S. Richards of the General Board, 
also the Relief Society presidents of the three 
newly organized stakes, and not least among 
them our former President Jane S. Richards, 
surrounded by those who for so many years 
have labored under her direction and guid-
ance. The Hall was filled to its utmost 
capacity. 
At 11 a. m. the conference convened. Pre-
sident Jane S. Richards presiding. 
Singing "We thank Thee O God for a 
prophet." 
Prayer was offered by Elder Franklin S. 
Richards, continued by singing the hymn 
"O say, what is truth?" 
President Jane S. Richards spoke words 
of welcome and expressed her gratitude for 
the privilege of meeting once more with the 
sisters and those interested in Relief Society 
work. She had greatly enjoyed her labors 
in this connection and said the work of the 
Relief Society is worth doing well, and she 

[Column 2]
trusted all would bear this in mind and give 
to the work the best of which we are cap-
able. 
Apostle David O. McKay said: we have 
met here today to do honor to Sister Jane 
S. Richards, who has labored lo! these many 
years in the interests of the Relief Society of 
the Weber Stake of Zion. Too much honor
could not be shown to her. He looked upon 
the women of Zion as queens for they were 
the mothers in Israel, and no greater honor 
can come to any woman than Motherhood. 
Rehearsed the story of the Roman mother's 
jewels and referred to the jewels of Sister
Richards—jewels whose influence was felt 
in Zion through service for others; also told 
the beautiful story of Hannah and her boy, 
whom she gave to the Lord; of Ruth and 
others, using them as illustrations of service 
and sacrifice of self. Asked the blessing of 
the Lord upon the queens—the mothers in 
Israel, that they might let the beauty and 
grandeur of motherhood be known in the 
world. Paid a glowing tribute to the labors 
of Sister Richards and prayed the blessing 
of heaven to be round about her through her 
remaining years. 
General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells said 
she was present when Sister Richards was 
called to preside over the Relief Society of 
the Weber Stake of Zion; this was the first 
Stake organized and Sister Richards its first 
president. Testified to the noble work she 
had accomplished and to the sweet spirit of 
humility that had characterized her whole 
life. Felt glad that she had been relieved 
of the arduous labors she had borne so long, 
and her prayer was that those who had been 
called to the work might carry it on success-
fully. All who are called to positions of im- 
portance gain development as they could 
gain it in no other way—Sister Richards has 
proven this and as a star she shines among 
the brightest. Referred to the rapid and 
gigantic growth of the Relief Society in all 
the world and showed the absurdity of its 
being composed entirely of elderly sisters. 
President Lewis W. Shurtliff was glad to 
be present to do honor to Sister Richards; 
he had known her long and intimately and 
had always found her in quest of sickness 
and distress that she might bring relief and 
comfort. May God bless her for that she 
has done. The work has grown to immense 
proportions and there is work for all. 
Sister Emily S. Richards said that Weber 
stake had had some of the best opportunities 
for gaining knowledge and that they had 
come largely through the energy of Sister 
Richards. She placed the magnitude of her 
achievements with those of Sister Wells, 
though in a different line yet each have been 
marvelous in scope. The Relief Society has 
done more for the women of Zion than we
can ever do for the society. 
A Token of Esteem to Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards was then read by the assistant secretary, 
Nellie Becraft, at the close of which a small 
memento was presented. 
Sister Richards responded in a few well 
chosen words, telling of the joy and satisfac-
tion she had always felt in the labors of the 
society.  Appreciated the love and support 
of the sisters, commended them for their 
faithfulness and prayed the Lord to ever 
bless them in their labors. 
President Emily M. Shurtliff of the Weber 
Stake Relief Society asked the sisters to re-
spond with a hearty Amen if they were satis-
fied with what had been done for Sister Rich-
ards. This was given unanimously. 
President Charles C. Richards of the Ogden


Stake spoke of the labors of his mother and
also his father in the Relief Society cause,
and said the monument of their good deeds
was more to the family than wealth of gold.
Urged the sisters of the three stakes to a
continuance of the labors begun; this, he
knew, was his mother’s wish. Thanked all
who had so ably supported her in her labors
and prayed heaven’s choicest blessings upon
them.
	Elder Franklin S. Richards was glad to see
this day, was thankful that the Priesthood
had seen fit to release his mother from the
arduous duties of the Relief Society. What
ever failings had been they had been through
frailties of the body. Words failed to express
the appreciation of the family for the love
and esteem that had ever been given his
mother. Thanked those who had stood at
her side to aid her—every sister and brother
who had added their part to her success, and
trusted choicest blessings be meted out to
them.
	Singing “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”
	Benediction was pronounced by Elder
Robert McQuarrie, after which a banquet
was served in an ajoining hall, thus a spirit-
ual and a temporal feast was enjoyed and a
social time spent that will linger in our me-
mories for years to come, bringing sweet
thoughts and pleasing reflections.
				NELLY BECRAFT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Died at Union, Salt Lake County, Sept. 19th,
1908, Sister Mary Anderson, the beloved wife of
Brother Andrew Anderson. She had been a great
sufferer for many years. In the early organization
of our Relief Society, she was a most efficient
teacher, ever ready and willing to help the poor,
the sick and the afflicted; later she was chosen
1st Counselor to Sister Mary Ann Smart, and re-
mained so until death released her.
	Sister Anderson was a wise counselor, a faithful
wife and a loving mother. She left her earthly all
for the gospel sake. She was born in the City of
Copenhagen, Denmark, August 21, 1834, baptized
in October, 1855, by Brother Ole Peterson; mar-
ried at Florence, June 18, 1863, by W. W. Cluff.
She leaves a loving husband, five sons and three
daughters, to mourn her loss, one preceding her
to the spirit world; also 33 grandchildren and three
greatgrandchildren, and two sisters, living at Mon-
roe, Sevier County.
	She was an ardent worker in our Relief Society.
May we ever emulate her wise counsel, for we
realize she has fought the good fight, and endured
to the end. Our loss is surely, her eternal gain,
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, they rest from their labors and their
works do follow them.”
	She was buried from the Union Ward Meeting
House, which was beautifully draped in white and
the hall was filled to overflowing. The floral offer-
ings were beautiful and numerous.
	The musical selections that were rendered by
the choir under the leadership of Brother Wm.
Cox were very impressive and beautiful.
	The speakers were Presidents Goff and Jensen
of the Stake Presidency, Elder Lindahl, Mary A.
Smart; also Brothers Wm. Panter and John Walker
of the Ward Bishopric in the absence of Bishop
Burgon, who was on a visit to England. She was
followed to South Cottonwood Cemetry by a long
train of carriages, bearing sorrowing relatives and
friends.
				President Mary Smart,
				Counselor Harriet Wilkens,
				Rosabel Walker, Secretary,
				Lucy A. Brady, Treasurer.
	P. S.—Sister Mary Anderson was a subscriber
to your valuable little paper which she with us
has always prized and its contents, which gave her
much pleasure and filled her heart with joy many
times when clouds appeared.
	Hoping you are well and will live many years
to publish your valuable paper which should be
in every household. I am sure every sister would
take it if they only knew the influence it carries
with it. I have always taken it and hope I always
will. Lovingly,
					MARY A. SMART.


[Column 1]	
			R. S. REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened in the Panguitch Tabernacle
June 24, 1908, First Counselor Alice J.
Cameron presiding. Opening exercises,
minutes, etc.
	President H. A. Crosby was glad to meet
with her sisters in conference, but was
greatly disappointed in not having some of
the sisters from Salt Lake City to visit us;
but prayed the Lord to bless us in our con-
ference that we might have a time of rejoic-
ing together, and be built up and benefitted
by coming.
	Counselor Sarah A. Houston, like Presi-
dent Crosby, felt disappointed beeause we
had no sisters from Salt Lake to attend our
conference. Reported her visit around the
stake, had a good time, enjoyed the trip,
but was very tired. Said they found all of
the organizations in good running order but
two, and their presidents had resigned on
account of poor health. They had filled each
vacancy and all was in good order. Asked
the Lord to bless all the Relief Society
branches in the Stake.
	Maria L. Sargent told of her trip around
the stake. Had Brother John S. Crosby to
drive for them. Found in every ward only
the same few sisters that always attend to
their meetings, and the others they could
not get at. Thought that was where we
needed our sisters to work in the homes and
get the sisters that never come to meetings
of any kind interested in Relief Society
work. They do not know what it is or they
would come, not lose such precious bless-
ings. The sisters wherever we went were
interested in storing wheat.
	The secretary read a report from Kingston
ward, the sisters were doing good work, had
sent some money to the Manti Temple to
pay for work for the dead. Some of the
sisters wanted to come to conference but
couldn’t get away to come.
	Sister Julia Wilson reported the Hillsdale
Ward was not doing very well on ac-
count of their president being sick for over
a year, but hoped to do better in the future.
	Sister Gemmitt Ott, president of Tropic
Ward, reported her ward as being fully or-
ganized, and have been taking the lessons
as outlined.
	Sister Jane Rappley of Tropic told of the
way they had been carrying on their lessons
during the winter, had chosen sides and de-
bated. and had learned much. The teach-
ers must visit every month. Had some wheat
on hand and hoped to be able to store more
this fall. The Bishops had promised to
help them with their wheat.
	Sister Elizabeth Cameron hoped to be
able to do her duty. Asked the Lord to
bless us and unite us.
	Conference was adjourned until 2 o’clock
after singing and benediction.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock p. m.
Opened with singing, prayer, minutes, etc.
	Sister Mary B. Heywood reported the
Panguitch Relief Society. Said all that at-
tended the meetings were benefitted and
seemed to be interested, were taking the
lessons as outlined. Thought the attend-
ance was better this year than last; as an
average it was 30. Had sent several sisters
to take the nurses class course. Read a
letter from Sister Mabel Church who had
taken the nurse class course and graduated
with honors.
	Sister Bnnker from Mexico said she well
remembered when the Relief Society was

[Column 2]
organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
had been a member ever since; was thank-
ful for the privilege. Told of the martyr-
dom of the Prophet Joseph, and of her testi-
mony that Brigham Young was the man to
take his place and carry on the work of the
Lord. Prayed the Lord to bless our Soci-
ety.
	Sister Elizabeth DeLong bore her testi-
mony to the work of the Lord that we are
engaged in. Said the Relief Society work
was a great one. Advised the sisters to be
careful what they say and not backbite each
other, but say good things about each other,
for the Relief society sisters are expected to
do a great work and help each other.
	Sister Adeline Tuttle, a worker in the
Manti Temple was glad to meet with the sis-
ters. Bore her testimony to the Gospel.
Advised the brethren and sisters to do more
Temple work for themselves and their dead
friends.
	Sister Zina Hanks recited “In Grandpa’s
Days.”
	Sister Ella Cameron from Idaho, said she
was very glad to meet with the sisters in
conference, felt well in the work, and asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Kate Heywood thought the Relief
Society work was grand, but she couldn’t
always come to meeting, but would like to
attend the meetings regularly. Asked the
Lord to bless us all with the spirit of cheer-
fulness.
	President David Cameron gave us some
good advice. Told of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, his good work for women when he
organized the Relief Society. Encouraged
the sisters to press on in the good work.
	President M. M. Steele was always glad
to meet with the sisters. Urged them to be
punctual, “Start on time and stop on time.”
Spoke of the word of wisdom. Said all the
sisters who held offices in the Relief Society
should obey the word of wisdom. “Sisters
don’t tempt your husbands by offering them
tea or coffee. May the Lord help us to do our
duty at all times.”
	President H. A. Crosby said conference
would adjourn until ten o’clock tomorrow
morning after singing and benediction.
			Panguitch, June 25, 1908.
	The second days’ conference convened.
Opened with singing and prayer; continued
singing, minutes, etc.
	Sister Alice Jane Cameron was the first
speaker; said she was glad to be able to
meet with the sisters in this conference and
that we had the Spirit of the Lord with us.
Spoke of the power of prayer. That we
should always pray and teach our children
to pray. We should be careful in the train-
ing of our children. Keep them in nights;
that all parents should be united in the
training of our children, for we sisters can
do nothing alone. Spoke of the Stake fund,
explained what it is used for. Said we
should teach our children the principle of
tithing and all the principles of the Gospel.
Teach our children to be polite to the aged
people.
	Sister Ann Burgess, a very aged and dear
sister, 87 years, gave us some good
instruction, bore a strong testimony of the
Gospel. Told of how she became a Latter-
day Saint. Prayed the Lord to bless us all
and comfort us in our homes.
	Sister Emily Bunker said she had been a
member of the Church 68 years, and was
proud to be numbered with such people,
and hoped to be found faithful to the end.
Told of her mothers experience with the


[Column 1]
Indians. She was taken captive, but her
life was preserved. Told of the early his-
tory of the Church, which was very interest-
ing. Spoke of the way the people disregard
the Sabbath day. It should not be done;
we should keep God’s commandments and
keep the Sabbath day holy. We should live
for something besides pleasure.
	President Hannah A. Crosby was glad
and thankful for the testimony of our aged
sisters, we should value it beyond price.
Advised mothers to watch their children and
teach them the Gospel. Do not let them
run the streets nights, for there are so many
temptatious. Spoke of the missionaries and
their work, and of the word of wisdom.
	Dismissed by singing and benediction.
	The afternoon session of our conference
commenced by singing and prayer; contin-
ued by singing and minutes, etc.
	Sister Ella Cameron was the first speak-
er. Told of her trip to Salt Lake City to
attend the Young Ladies’ Mutual confer-
ence. It was well represented, from Cana-
da in the north to old Mexico in the south.
Had some very good instructions. Wished
all could live up to what we have heard.
Told of the companionship that should ex-
ist between mother and daughter. Home-
making is the duty of every mother, and
they should have happy homes.
	Sister Adair from Tropic Ward gave a
lecture on the life of our Savior. The first
miracle of our Lord and Savior at a mar-
riage-feast, where he turned water into
wine.
	Sister Rachel Wilson recited a piece en-
titled “The Amen Corner.”
	Brother William Cameron of Idaho was
glad to meet with the Relief Society. Asked
the Lord to bless all the sisters in their
noble work. Spoke of the training of our
children, keep them in good company.
Urged the sisters not to talk about each
other and try to pull others down; but try to
build each other up. “God bless all of the
sisters. Amen.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, President of
the Relief Society in all the world, and
other officers were sustained, also President
Hannah A. Crosby, and the Panguitch Stake
officers of the Relief Society.
	Conference was then adjourned for one
year. Closed by the choir singing ‘‘School
thy feelings, O my brother.,’ Benediction
Elder Leonard Sargent.
			SARAH D. DYRETT.
					Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE STAKE.
 	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Alpine Stake of Zion was held
at Pleasant Grove, July 17, 1908. President
Rebecca Strandring presiding.
	Our conference was favored with the at-
tendance of Sisters Ida Smoot Dusenberry
and Sarah J. Cannon of the General Board.
	After the usual exercises President Stand-
ring greeted the sisters and reported the
Stake in good condition, felt gratified with
the advancement of the work and the unity
of the sisters. “The Lord had a special pur-
pose in organizing this Society. It is for the
sisters to be helps to the brethren, but this
was only secondary; we were to save souls,
and to raise our children in the fear of the
Lord. The work of the Lord is growing and
we should endeavour to keep up to the
times.” Prayed for the spirit of the Lord
to dictate us at all times.
	Lehi, 1st ward, reported by President
Hannah P. Jones. Lehi, 2nd ward, by Presi-

[Column 2]
dent Kate Allred. American Fork, 1st ward,
President E. J. Durrant. American Fork,
2nd ward, President Sarah S. Chipman.
	The presidents all gave encouraging re-
ports. Meetings are fairly well attended and
teachers visit regularly. The lessons on
faith are well received. Have agreed to take
up a labor with those who neglect Sacra-
ment meetings.
	Song, “Star of Bethlehem,” by Pleasant
Grove Sisters.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was pleased to
meet the sisters of Alpine Stake, and to see
them stand up at roll call. Our organization
is so perfect that we have no need to pass
over our local officers to go to the head for
advice on any ordinary subject or business.
Parents should know all about their chil-
dren, and their affairs. Make home pleasant,
and encourage them in their Church work
and to be obedient to their parents and to
the priesthood. It takes parents all their
time to keep peace and order in their fam-
lies. Liked to know that the Society in
the wards had means on hand to help in
any emergency that might need help.
	Sister Dusenberry had been away from
home for some time, and felt to appreciate
her home and her religion more and more,
and felt the worth of her own people. Spoke
of an instance where a gentleman who stood
in the meeting of the Saints in New York
testified of the influence exercised on him by
being in contact with two Mormon elders,
mere boys. The influence of the Mormon
elders is a great attraction for people not of
our faith. Related several incidents of her
travels and experience among outsiders and
those opposed to our principles. Realized
that it is the actions and example of a per-
son that influences the people more than
their words. It is our lives that count, our
words amount to nothing comparatively.
There are many good people in the world,
and though they may be careless now, in
due time the truth will dawn upon them
and they will know that the Mormons are
honest and sincere and that they seek the
welfare of the people.
	President Stephen L. Chipman felt grati-
fied in hearing the reports and testimonies.
Noticed that few of the young women are
connected with this Society. We want more
help and it is necessary that the younger
women should be getting the experience to
fill these positions. Spoke of the Relief So-
ciety grain, thought the granaries should be
examined and made sound and good for the
reception of the new wheat. Spoke of can-
vassers who are around deceiving the peo-
ple, and warned the sisters to be careful
what they sign their names to, for these
agents are not reliable and we should be on
our guard.
	Meeting closed by singing and Benedic-
tion. Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session. Conference reas-
sembled at 2 p. m. President Standring
presiding.
	After the opening exercises President M.
E. Abel reported American Fork, 3rd ward.
President C. Thorne reported Lindon. Ellen
Jones Lehi, 3rd ward
	The reports were gratifying. The poor
are fed, the sick visited and sisters always
ready to respond to the calls made upon
them.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board was glad to hear of the good spirit
that exists in this stake. We should try to
be as good Latter-day Saints as possible;
had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith when
she was a small girl. We have been taught

[Column 3]
and counseled to live upright lives, and
where we have followed the counsel of those
placed over us, we have come out all right.
We should try to appreciate our blessings,
and while we have the opportunity let us be
kind to each other and not wait until it is
too late. Let us try to do as well as we
know how. Mothers have great responsibi-
lities and also many opportunities to learn
the gospel and many things necessary to our
advancement. May the Lord be ever good
to us.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry. ‘‘I used
to think that Relief Society work was only
for the older sisters, but as I have traveled
and visited the stake conferences, I have de-
cided that it was for the younger ones as
well. God can take the humblest of His
children, and make of them an instrument
to do His will. Our experiences are our
education, and more especially if we have
eyes to see and ears to hear. How good and
just the Lord is, He has not said to some,
you may have the light, you may have the
flowers, you may have the sunshine, but has
given all these beauties of nature to all of
us. They are all ours to enjoy. Let us
keep good cheer for everyone, speak a kind
word and often that will lift a load from the
saoulders of our friends. The only way to
grow is by doing good to others. May the
Lord give you a spirit of love, sympathy and
progression”
	A solo was rendered by one of the sisters.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake
Presidency. You sisters are not here be-
cause of time you have to spare, but you are
here to do your duty, and to partake of the
spirit and influence of this conference. Our
minds are drawn away from our every day-
labors for a few hours, and our spirits are
directed to our Heavenly Father who organ-
ized this Church for the benefit of His chil-
dren. The law of tithing is given for our
temporal as well as our spiritual salvation.
Some think that all they need to live for is
this life, but I think we should live with the
thought that this life is to fit us for a future
state. We are here at school to get experi-
ence to prepare us for our future life. Let
us attain to as high a sphere as we can, for
there is an eternity to follow this life. Make
the duties of the Church a pleasure. Make
the paying of tithing a pleasure. This will
strengthen our faith because of the blessings
our Father returns to us. Convert your-
selves, convert your husbands to this law,
for it is as much a principle of the gospel as
baptism. Great responsibilities rests upon
us as fathers and mothers. Let us be care-
ful of the children God has given us. Let
us help each other and be mutual in this.
As we grow stronger and do our duty day
by day we are saved.
	Bishop John R. Hindley was struck with
the remark of the sisters in giving the re-
ports that they loved the work and the du-
ities placed upon them in the Relief Society.
If we can do this we can become a great
help to others as well as to ourselves. Our
young sisters do not realize what they are
missing. The blessings cannot be ours un-
less we work for them. The temporal part 
of our lives are crowding out the spiritual
part. Let us give more attention to the spi-
ritual things that will be ours in the future.
	Bishop Lewis was delighted with the sen-
timents expressed by the speakers. “Seek
first the kingdom of God, and all other
things shall be added unto you.” I often
wonder whether we do this to the extent
that we should. “There is no excellence
without labor,” and the Relief Society sis-


ters are not afraid of labor. May each of us
profit by the teachings of this conference.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Pre-
sident Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
				E. J. T. ROBERTS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
KEEP THE SABBATH DAY HOLY.
	“Remember the Sabbath day to keep it
holy, six days shalt thou labor and do all
thy work. But the seventh day is the Sab-
bath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt
do no work. Thou nor thy son, nor thy
daughter, nor thy man servant, nor thy maid
servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger with-
in thy gates!” was one of the commandments
which God gave to his ancient covenant peo-
ple, through his Prophet Moses.
	I will now quote from a revelation given
through the Prophet Joseph Smith, by the
Lord, to his Saints in this day, on August 7,
1831. see Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 59,
9th to 21st par.:
	“And that thou mayest more fully keep
thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy
sacraments upon my holy day.
	“For verily this is a day appointed unto
you to rest from your labors and to pay thy
devotions unto the Most High.
	“Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered
up in righteousness on all days, and at all
times.
	“But remember on this the Lord’s day
thou shalt offer thine oblations, and thy
sacraments unto the Most High, confessing
thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the
Lord.
	“And on this day thou shalt do none other
thing, only let thy food be prepared with
singleness of heart, that thy fasting may be
perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may
be full.
	“Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in
other words rejoicing and prayer.
	“And inasmuch as ye do these things
with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and
countenances, not with much laughter, for
this is sin but,with a glad heart and a cheer-
ful countenance.
	“Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this,
the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts
of the field, the fowls of the air, and that
which climbeth upon the trees, and walketh
upon the earth.
	“Yea and the herb and the good things
which cometh of the earth, whether for food
or for raiment, or for houses or for barns, or
for orchards, or for gardens, or for vine-
yards.
	“Yea all things which come of the earth,
in the season thereof, are made for the benefit
and the use of man, both to please the eye,
and to gladden the heart.
	“Yea for food and for raiment, for taste
and for smell, to strengthen the body, and
to enliven the soul.
	“And it pleaseth God that he had given
all these things unto man, for unto this end
were they made, to be used with judgment,
not to excess, neither by extortion.
	“And in nothing doth man offend God, or
against none is his wrath kindled, save those
who confess not his hand in all things, and
obey not his commandments.”
	I have quoted from the revelation given
unto us in this day by the Lord, through
him, who we all testify to be a prophet raised
up by him in this day and age in which we
live.

[Column 2]
	Do we seriously consider the fearful re-
sponsibility which is placed upon us, who
profess to be Saints?
	Can we who feel in a measure this great
responsibility afford, to neglect, to set an ex-
ample which is worthy of imitation by all,
by whom we may be surrounded, our chil-
dren, our children’s children, and our neigh-
bor’s children. For many parents who keep
the laws of God strictly, and conscientiously
themselves, behold with sorrow, their chil-
dren led away by the pernicious influence of
their neighbor, or their friend, who perchance
may think that they are too strict, or too
pious, as they aften term it.
	My Sisters can we be too strict in keeping
the commandments of God? I think not! can
we consistently call ourselves Saints if we
willfully, or carelessly, neglect to keep the
commandments which he has given us, and
which are reiterated constantly by his serv-
ants, of whom we testify, that we know they
are called of God?. Have we not covenanted
in sacred and holy places, to keep all of his
laws and commandments, and teach them
to our children?
	If we do not fear for our own sake, to
break or disregard these laws, we should be
very careful of our conduct, for our children’s
sake and the stranger within our gates.
	One may ask how can we get along with
the work which we have to do, and not work
upon the Sabbath day, especially mothers
who have large families of children.
	In the first place it is necessary that we
should become converted to the fact, that
our Heavenly Father gives no command-
ment, to his children, which he will not give
them power to live up to. He has told us
to rest from our labors, on that holy day,
and to go to the house of prayer, now if we
will do this, He will certainly give us of his
holy spirit, which will admonish us of our
duties, and give us inspiration by which we
may be guided in the performance of them,
in a manner that will be acceptable to him.
	“Many hands make light work” and if a
mother of a family trains them properly,
there is no reason why they should not all
be able to enjoy the rest of the Sabbath day,
A careful mother will plan her work for the
week, in a manner that will not find her
overburdened with house cleaning at the end
thereof, but will quietly perform some por-
tion of it every day, and see that each mem-
ber of the family has his, or her, own especial
duties to perform, in their time and season.
There is no reason why our children should
be allowed to play or study, all the time,
we should as parents be generals or com-
manders of the forces at our command, and
study and work and play should be so classi-
fied, as to give proper time to each, and the
strictest obedience to discipline should be
required. If obedience be, as we are told,
the first law of heaven, obedience to that
law certainly should be insisted upon! Now
as to methods, by which obedience may be
brought about, they are manifold, and vari-
ous and many articles might be written upon
that vexed question, and yet “the half would
not be told” sufficient for this article to say,
that without obedience all would be chaos,
and that the very foundation of the super-

[Column 3]
structure which goes to make up a noble
character is obedience.
	Mothers can do much toward having their
children look forward to the Sabbath day
with pleasure as I said before. Do not let
the preparation for the Sabbath day, become
unduly burdensome at the end of the week,
so that it will impress itself in an unfavor-
able manner upon the minds of children.
In my childhood it was a custom, (every one
did it) in our home to turn every thing out
of the house on Saturday and every shelf
and every floor was scoured, yes literally
scoured with sand, until one could have
eaten off of any part of the floors, and every
member of the family, by night were worn out:
such a horror of Saturday cleaning, that I
vowed, that when I had a home of my own
I should never have a Saturday cleaning day!
and I have kept that vow. I try to manage
my work in such a way that Saturday is al-
most a leisure day, a preparation for the
Sabbath day, when I shall not be too weary
to enjoy its rest.
	I am sensible that where there are large
families, the management is more difficult,
but good generalship certainly will accom-
plish it. We should impress upon our chil-
dren the fact that God has commanded, that
we keep holy the Sabbath day and that we
dare not disobey him!
	As to those who serve us, the responsibili-
ty lies with us, to see that all who are with-
in our gates, except those who are unable,
and those upon whom devolves their care,
should go to the house of prayer.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS.
		(To be Continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.
	One of the results of the extension of the
franchise to women in Norway is that
henceforward women employed in the postal
service are to receive the same pay as men.
Norwegian women are greatly rejoicing over
this victory.
	Mrs. Zella Nuttall, who has received
many honors from American and foreign
scientific associations for her explorations
and archaelogical researches, is now in Mex-
ico engaged as field director of the Reid-
Crocker Mission, which is excavating the
Pyramids of the sun and the moon at
Teothuacan. This work is carried on large-
ly through funds furnished by two other
American women—Mrs. Whitelaw Reid and
Mrs. Crocker of San Francisco.
	Mrs. Emily P. Collins was 94 years young
on August 11. She received congratulations
at her home, 60 Newbury avenue, Atlantic,
Mass., where she lives with her grandchil-
dren. Mrs. Collins organized the earliest
womansuffrage association in the world, in
the Western part of New York State. In
the same year she sent to the Legislature
what she believes to have been the first
woman suffrage petition ever sent to the
Legislature of any State. It bore the sig-
natures of sixty of the more prominent men
and women in Bristol, New York, with a
few from neighboring towns.		Exp.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
					67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

