Vol. 37. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1909. No. 6.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
Reminiscenses of Nauvoo........Louisa Decker	41
General Conference Relief Society................	42
Mary Alice Cannon. A Tribute...................
	........................Annie Wells Cannon		43
Mrs. Standring Passes 81st Year...................		43
Obituaries..................................................		46
Relief Society Stake Reports: Granite—Alpine
	Davis.................................................		46
Burial Customs in England......L. D. Alder		48
Editorial:—Relief Society Conference...........	44
	The New President.............................		44
	In Memoriam of Annie Taylor Hyde....		44
	Social Hall Parties.............................		45
Poetry:—Prohibition...........Ellis R. Shipp...		41
	Some Time................May Riley Smith		43


PROHIBITION.
Did you say you did not favor prohibitions’ cause?
That you would oppose such measure as a statute
	of our laws?
Stop to think! Oh hear the echoes ringing still
	from age to age,
Wails of anguish, cries of hunger, themes of poet,
	priest and sage.

Could you see the midnight vigils anxious wives
	and mothers keep,
See them kneeling, praying, pleading—see the
	little children weep—
Calling for the husband—father—hoping for his
	near return,
Yet they’re almost fearing—dreading that for
	which they wildly yearn.

Oh the direful,dreadful vision of a man with reason
	gone,
Once the type of noble manhood—Now we see
	him stagger on,
Blear-eyed, dark distorted features, rambling
	speech, and shambling gait—
Ah you turn away and shudder, with the thought
	of such a fate.

Still we see this picture daily in this land of free-
	dom’s pride,
This and still more sad conditions- poverty and
	crime beside.
Greatest sins of every nation have their origin in
	drink—
Drink that kills a man’s best impulse, brings him
	to destructions brink.

Brightest thought and judgment darkened, use-
	fulness and manhood flown,
All that made him loved and honored, ’ere the
	demon drink he'd known.
Then arouse, awake each nation, every town and
	city hear.
Let the cause of prohibition spread its banner
	far and near.

That no more the eyes of childhood may behold
	such wretched sight,
Let the force of man’s example ere impel the
	course of right.
Let the earth consume such fluid once for all—
	and never more
Mingle with the blood of mortal, ring these words
	from shore to shore.
Temperance and Prohibition! abstinence from
	habits vile.
Bringing freedom, peace and plenty, making
	earth and heaven smile.
						Ellis R. Shipp.


“The women of Columbus, Ind., have start-
ed a petition to Mrs. Taft to follow the ex-
ample set by Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes in
the White Hause not to allow intoxicating
liquors to be served there. Mrs. Taft is
quoted as saying that, though her husband
did not use wine, she would allow it on the
table, as it had been the custom.”


[Column 1]
REMINISCENSES OF NAUVOO.

Written by Louisa Decker for the Exponent.

	My parents David and Louisa Norris were
born in the state of New York; when they
married moved to the state of New Jersey,
where their four children were born.
	About 1837 a traveling Elder, Ball by name
held a meeting at their house the subject be-
ing of faith, repentance and baptism. My
mother lay sick in the back room listening,
and was so convinced of the truth that shs
asked to be administered to and was bap-
tized in a river where the ice was cut away
to perform the ceremony, that restored her
to perfect health. She was wrapt in a quilt
oyer her wet clothes and rode a mile home,
changed her clothing, and cooked dinner for
the Elder and her family.
	This testimony I have heard her repeat
several times. My father did not join the
Church at this time, but a short time after
my eldest brother Nathaniel had taken a
severe cold and was becoming very deaf;
mother being of great faith sent for Brother
Ball and asked him to administer to my
brother; when he arrived he said Sister Nor-
ris do you have faith that he will be healed?
she answered certainly we have those pro-
mises. Then he repaired to the woods back
of the house evidently to seek the Lord in
prayer. Returning in about an hour he ad-
ministered to my brother, who was immedi-
ately healed and was never afflicted after-
wards. Then my father joined the Church,
sold his possessions and started to join the
Saints; got as far as Kirtland when the baby
sickened and died; which detained them so
late that he thought best to stay over one
year and work at his trade blacksmithing.
There he loaned out his money and failing
to get it, we were kept back two more years
which was a great worry to my parents, as
they had started for Missouri and a great
part of those left in Kirtland were weak in
the faith, or had left the Church altogether.
The last year we were there 1841 and 42 we
lived in the house of our Prophet Joseph
Smith near the Temple. My brother Nath-
aniel and sister Mary had been baptized. Just
before we left there I now being eight years
old I was baptized. The Saints had now
settled in Nauvoo at which place we arrived
in 1842; father built a house and blacksmith
shop on corner of Parley and Granger Street
near, the homes of many of the leading mem-
bers of the Church, and three blocks from
the Prophet’s home thus he was blest at last
to associate with the tried and true; he join-
ed the Quorum of the Seventies, also the
Nauvoo Legion and became one of Brother
Joseph’s body guard. Mother joined the
Relief Society, Emma Smith being presi-
dent; we now had an opportunity to get well
acquainted with the Prophet and his family.
My sister and I went to school with his chil-
dren in the new seventy’s hall a block west
of our house (the teacher named Kelsey
boarding at our house).
	The Temple was being built and each one
seemed to desire to help, and many sold
things that they could scarcely spare to put
the means towards the building. I can re-
member of my mother selling her China

[Column 2]
dishes and fine bed quilt, to donate her part.
	About this time there began a spirit of
apostaoy among a few that had been the
Prophet’s trusted friends, and with the ill
feeling of the out side influence caused him
much sorrow and this bitter feeling grew,
urged on by our Missouri enemies. There
was a paper started to keep the bitter feel-
ing s tirred up something after the style of
the “Tribune” here. It became necessary
to keep night watchmen out to prevent a
surprise or an assassination, there were false
charges gotten up to get possession of the
Prophet and take him away from his friends
which was finally accomplished as is well
known by all.
	The Nauvoo Legion wished to go with
him but in his last talk with them; he said
brethren stay at home and also said “I go
as a Lamb to the slaughter.” Brothers Hy-
rum Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Rich-
ards and some others accompanying him on
the way going with him; the Church history
records the dreadful tragedy; my father was
on guard that night, he came in early in the
morning with the sad news, that caused the
greatest sorrow and mourning ever felt
throughout the city.
	There was no breakfast eaten in our home
that morning before the burial of Brother
Joseph and his brother Hyrum; the Saints
had the privilege of passing through the
Mansion house and taking a last sad look at
them.And when I saw where the bullet
had pierced the face of Brother Hyrum that
had caused his death it made a lasting im-
pression on me that I never can forget; the
burial soon followed using great caution as
there were spies on the watch to betray. I
go sometimes and listen to the trusted old
man that dug the graves at night, he is still
living among us and his face lights up with
joy when he says “and I never told a living,
soul” until asked by one having authority,
“Where was my father buried?” he also told
me he was drummer in the Nauvoo Legion
and cut stone on the Nauvoo Temple.
	Not satisfied yet those opposed to us be-
gan a series of persecutions; also a great
apostacy took place and jealousy arose as to
who should lead the Church. Sidney Rig-
don, Lyman Wight and Strang had their
followers but when a meeting was called
and Brigham Young arose and spoke with
power, it was as if the Prophet Joseph’s very
voice spoke through him. I heard my father
and mother when they returned from meet-
ing testify to this, and many others since
then. I believe it was the largest attended
meeting ever held in Nauvoo. So many
among us now drawing away from the
Church and the opposition from outside made
very trying times for us and a night guard
had to be kept. My father and many of the
Nauvoo Legion were called to this duty.
Father working at his trade through the day
and standing guard at night. Now com-
menced a system of getting up false charges
against our leading members to have them
arrested, to take them away as they had done
our Prophet and often they were seen by the
guard prowling around the homes of the
Apostles until it was not safe to stay in their
own homes.


There were an old couple named Simons
living across the street from us that made
them welcome in their up stairs rooms.
 *	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Now the necessary preparations were
being made for the journey west. The
Twelve and others that were in the greatest
danger from outside influence going first.
Those staying aiding in helping them. This
was father’s busy time the blacksmithing
being in great demand. He worked on a
good part of the 42 wagons that carried the
first company out; working early and
as late as ten o’clock at night. Mother stay-
ing up to get father an extra supper and then
going on guard in his turn. The Temple
being partly finished in the winter of 1846
the work there was being hurried through.
My father, mother, brother and sister re-
ceived the ordinances. My sister was mar-
ried to John Murdock and journeyed with
his people westward.
	All this time the persecutions never abat-
ed. Men that had work outside of city
limits were caught and unmerciful whipt.
One night Uncle Phineas Young and his son
B. H. Young came late at night to our
house, said they were riding with a brother
that was coming in with his team. They
saw some of these desperadoes hurrying
after them. They run and hid in the grass
but were near enough to see the man with
the team caught stript tied to his wagon
wheel and whipt until his groans ceased
when he fainted. They then crawled through
the grass until a safe distance to run. This
is only one of the cruel things that was hap-
pening right along on the out skirts of town.
Women and helpless children were carried
from a sick bed and laid on the ground
while their house and goods were burned.
Wheat, haystacks and barns were burned
and the cattle driven off. Many families
that had depended on their land for a living
had to come into the city for protection. I
have watched the smoke arise and knew
more homes were being burned. Companies
and single families were crossing the river
all summer camping on the other side or
pursuing their journey west. Some getting
work to feed their families, a few were stay-
ing hoping to sell for a little. There were
some strangers coming into secure cheap
homes. I think my father sold his five
roomed house for a yoke of oxen but do not
know as his records and the account of the
work he did in helping the brethren off (for
they were in no condition to pay at that
time) the papers were lost at winter quarters,
but all those debts were later forgiven.
	Later on about the first of August, 1846,
father was ready to start on his journey. By
this time the mobbing and driving every Mor-
mon out of the city was the plan of our ene-
mies. Father felt it his duty to stay, saying
he could not desert his brethren in their great
need. And when hundreds of the mob came
with their guns and cannons and camped near
the city, our people gathered there men and
boys and camped out making ready to resist
the enemy that so greatly out numbered them,
that it looked like almost a hopeless task,
when camped out about a week, there were
some musket shots fired and cannon shot
off at our people. Saturday they moved up
to close range, then there was a hard fought
battle so near that we could see clouds of
smoke arise and hear the roar of cannon
while listening I counted 72 cannon shots
fired, not realizing that one of these shots
had deprived us of a kind father’s care but
the news was already on the way and my

[Column 2]
mother’s cry of anguish was bo distressing
that the messenger, a strong man, wept.
We never knew how many of the enemy
were taken off. Our people lost three, Brother
Anderson and son. My father David Norris
was instantly killed by a cannon ball. The
late Henry Grow stood by his side and when
the order came to them to march to the
front of a field where the enemy had
started to come in back of our people and
surround them cutting off a chance of retreat.
Henry Grow was walking in father’s foot-
steps. In telling me this he said one step
more and it would have been him. Providence
calls one and leaves another. Later in the
day a flag of truce was carried over and a
treaty made that all that did not renounce
their religion should cross the river in three
days. Should stack their guns and ammuni-
tion in the Temple. And they came Mon-
day and took possession of the city and
searched the houses to see there were no weap-
ons hidden. Father’s body was brought home
at dusk. My brother was released from duty,
we had not seen him for a week, he lay down
in mother’s room up stairs. Mother had been
in poor health most of the summer and was
now prostrated with grief. My little brother
Benjamin, five years old, had cried himself
to sleep. This left me alone down stairs
with the dead. A tallow candle for light,
the blood dripping, dripping from the body all
night and lay on the bare floor in a puddle.
My brother before he lay down to rest said
he expected two men to come for the night,
but they were called away on duty. The
city was guarded to keep from being sur-
prised. We knew by sad experience the
enemy could not be trusted. My brother
said if I heard the horn blow or bells ring-
ing to call him that would be the signal that
the mob were coming. Once the horn blew
but it was a false alarm, I did not call him,
I thought he had done his part. He was in
his 17th year and I was 12 years old and a
very timid child, and the night was lonely.
I, only going to the foot of the stairs to
speak to mother a time or two, a man came
in the morning with team and a hasty made
coffin, in which he was laid, wrapt in a
sheet. There was no time to make a robe
nor any one to make it. My mother still
bed fast was left with her little boy. While
the funeral procession, consisting of Brother
Nathaniel, myself and a Brother Coulay fol-
lowed the wagon to the grave just west of
the Temple, a short prayer was said and his
body was laid to rest.	
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.

FOUR MEETINGS TO BE HELD IN THIS CITY
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 2 AND 3, 1909.

Annie Taylor Hyde Memorial Services feat-
	ure of Friday afternoon in Assembly Hall.

	A two day’s conference of the Relief Soci-
ety will be held in this city on Friday and
Saturday, April 2 and 3, preceding the
General Conference of the Church. In all,
four meetings will be held, the first, second
and fourth in the Assembly Hall, and the
third in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Fol-
lowing is the program of the various ses-
sions:

ASSEMBLY HALL, FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 10 A. M.
	Opening hymn, “The Morning Breaks,”—
P. P. Pratt.
	Opening prayer, Mary A. C. Lambert.

[Column 2]
	Norwegian hymn—Agnes Olson Thomas.
	Greeting—President Bathsheba W. Smith.
	Address of Welcome—Secretary Emme-
line B. Wells.
	Response — Counselor Matilda Smith,
Pocatello, Idaho.
	Address, ‘‘Our Relations with the Nation-
al Council of Women—Treasurer Clarissa
Smith Williams.
	Violin Solo—Willard Weihe, John J.
McClellan, accompanist.
	Soprano solo, “Ave Marie,” Mascagni—
Nellie Druce Pugsley, accompanied by Wil-
lard Weihe.
	A sketch of the life of Jane S. Richards—
Emily S. Richards.
	Hymn, "O my Father;” Eliza R. Snow—
Congregation.
	Prayer—Elizabeth S. Wilcox.

	AFTERNOON SESSION.

Annie Taylor Hyde Memorial Services,
	Organ solo—Edna Coray.
	Hymn, “A poor wayfaring man of grief—
Congregation.
	Invocation—Emma S. Woodruff.
	Duet, “Come Holy Spirit,” Wiegaud—
Stella and Minnie Poulton. 
	Tribute to Annie Taylor Hyde—Julia P.
M. Farnsworth.
	Address—Sarah Jane Cannon.
	Contralto solo, “Rock of Ages,”—Hous-
ley—Alice Webley.
	In Memoriam—Carrie S. Thomas.
	Soprano solo, “Who Are These Arrayed
in White—Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Hymn, “How firm a foundation”—Con-
gregation.
	Benediction—Susan Grant.

		SATULDAY, 10 O’CLOCK, APRIL 3.
	Officers’ meeting Fourteenth ward hall,
	Hymn, “Tho’ Deep’ning trials throng
your way.”
	Prayer—Sarah F. M. Taylor, Ogden
Stake.
	Solo, “At Eventime,” Marks—Mary Katz.
	Reports.
	Questions.
	Outlines for mothers’ work; instructions
by Ida S. Dusenberry.
	Finance—membership—instructions by
Treasurer C. S. Wiiliams.
	Nurse class; instructions Phebe Y. Beatie.
	Hymn, “Lord dismiss us.”
	Prayer—Minnie Horne James.

		AFTERNOON, ASSEMBLY HALL.

	Hymn, “Love at Home”—Congregation.
	Prayer—Harriet B. Harker.
	Hymn, “Our mountain home so dear,”
words by E. B. Wells, music by Prof. Evan
Stephens—Congregation.
	Address, Compensation, Counselor Ida
S. Dusenberry.
	Subject, Compensation—Dr. Margaret C.
Roberts.
	Organ Solo, (a) First Movement of Organ
Third Guilmant; (b) “Solitude,” Godard—
Tracy Young Cannon.
	Discussion—Compensation—Annie Wells
Cannon and Counselor Mae T. Nystrom, of
of the Y. L. M. I. A. 
	Solo, “With Verdure Clad,” Haydn —
Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Address, “Music in the Home—Evan
Stephens.
	Hymn, “Come, let us anew,”—Congrega-
tion. Benediction, Alice Merrill Horne.
	Musical director, Lizzie Thomas Edward.
Organist, Edna Coray.
	Please bring Hymn Books?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOME TIME.
	Elder O. F. Whitney recited this poem with
deep feeling at the funeral of Sister Mary Alice
Cannon, March 5, 1909.

Some time, when all life’s lessons have been
		learned,
	And suns and stars forevermore have set,
The things which our weak judgments here have
		spurned,
	The things o’er which we grieved with lashes
		wet,
Will flash before us and life’s dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue;
And we shall see how all God’s plans were right,
	And what most seemed reproof was love most
		true:

And we shall see how, while we frown and sigh,
	God’s plans go on as best for you and me—
How when we called, He heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end could see;
And e’en as prudent parents disallow
	Too much of sweet to craving babyhood,
So God, perhaps, is keeping from us now
	Life’s sweetest things because it seemeth good.

And if, sometimes, commingled with life’s wine,
	We find the wormwood, and rebel and shrink,
Be sure a wiser hand than yours or mine
	Pours out this potion for our lips to drink;
And if some friend we love is lying low,
	Where human kisses cannot reach his face,
Oh, do not blame the loving Father so,
	But wear your sorrow with obedient grace!
And you shall shortly know that lengthened
		breath
	Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend,
And that sometimes the sable pall of death
	Conceals the fairest boon His love can send;
If we conld push ajar the gates of life,
	And stand within, and all God’s workings see,
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
	And for each mystery pould find a key.

But not today. Then be content, poor heart!
	God’s plans like lilies, pure and white unfold,
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
	Time will reveal the Calyxes of gold;
And if, through patient toil, we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest,
Where we shall clearly know and understand,
]think that we shall say, "God knew the
		best.”
				MAY RILEY SMITH.


[Column 1]
	MARY ALICE CANNON.

		A TRIBUTE.

	“She was dead, no sleep so beautiful and
calm, so free from toil and pain, so fair to
look upon.”
	Without a struggle, without a throb, with-
out a sigh, the beautiful spirit of Mamie
Cannon passed into eternal life; so silently,
so softly, so sweetly, that even those who
waited breathlessly around could scarcely
tell when the heart stopped beating; and
when alas to their numbed senses the real-
ization came, grief was glorified with the
heavenly influence of so sweet a death.
	A lovelier, truer woman never lived than
Mary Alice Cannon, and her place in the
hearts of those who knew her, can never be
filled. Even as a little child she possessed
most womanly traits; and though strong in
character she was always yielding, obedient
and thoughtful as occasion demanded. She
was of a most lovable disposition, yet pos-
sessed the quality of a leader among her as-
sociates. It was to her, her friends would go
for sympathy when sorrow came to them,
and it was to her they would go to tell their
triumphs, for there was always in her heart
a responding and sympathetic chord for each
and every condition. She was a woman of
many talents, not the least among them her
exquisite wit and power of imitation—such
qualities as render conversation so delight-
ful; and her natural refinement and gentle-
ness were marked characteristics.
	On the morning of March the first she was
called home to her heavenly Father after an

[Column 2]
illness of less than three weeks—an illness
which only a few days before had not ap-
peared serious. We have to submit to the
inevitable, and with such a sublime faith as
she possessed, we must realize with her that
God knoweth best and doeth all things well;
and yet it is sometimes hard to understand
why one so needed here and so beloved
should be taken away.
	Mary Alice Cannon was the wife of Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon and the eldest daughter
of President George Q. Cannon and Elizabeth
Hoagland. She was born on the sixteenth
of October 1867. As a little girl she showed
the qualities of leadership, and her many
brothers were always proud to follow her ex-
ample and champion her cause in childish
warfare. She spent two seasons in Washing-
ton with her parents when President Cannon
was Utah’s delegate in Congress. She also
made many trips with her father, whom she
idolized, east and west, as well as accompany-
ing him in frequent trips throughout the
state. Her mother died when Mamie, as we
love to call her, was only fourteen years old
and the circumstances were most pathetic,
for her father was absent in Washington
contending for the rights of the people, and
her two older brothers, Jno Q., and Abram
were on missions in Europe. There were
three younger children left in her care, David,
Emily and Sylvester, and to them she has
always performed the part of mother and
sister too. Even after her marriage and the
making of another home, she still showed
the same thoughtfulness and tenderness to-
wards her brothers and sisters, and when her
brother David died while on his mission in
Germany, her grief was as great as a moth-
er’s could have been. She passed also the
trial of losing her first born, a beautiful boy,
named Lewmar; but through all her life she
showed noble and faithful resignation, and
lived the life of a consistent and true Latter-
day Saint.
	She has left, besides her sorrowing hus-
band and six beautiful children, who will al-
ways mourn her loss, many brothers and
sisters and loved ones and a host of friends
who will always cherish the memories of her
beautiful life. She was not inclined to public
life in any way but performed some loving
duties in the ward where her husband pre-
sides as bishop, having been a teacher in the
parents class in Sunday School, also coun-
selor to the president of the Ward Primary
Association. She acted with much ability
as the representative of the Stake Relief So-
ciety on a commitee for the betterment of the
young people, and she was a loyal member
of the society known as The Daughters of
the Revolution. Her natural tastes and sym-
pathies, however, were more in the home
circle, where she displayed all the virtues
and acquirements of a perfect wife and
mother.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


The name of the Governor of Michigan
will head the national woman suffrage peti-
tion from that State.
	Miss Julia Marlow is a clever bookbinder.
When at her country place, Highmount, in
the Catskills, she spends much of her time
over bookbinders’ tools and machinery.
	Miss Meredith, daughter of George Mere-
dith, the novelist, stepped into the breach
in Harrowgate the other day and wielded
the baton as substitute for the conductor of
the municipal orehestra, one of the best in
England.


MRS. STANDRING PASSES 81st YEAR.

	Saturday, February 20th, 1909, being the
81st birthday of Mrs. Rebecca Standring,
Stake President of the Relief Society of
the Alpine Stake, it was decided by the four
wards of Lehi, that they would honor the
lady by celebrating the day in a good old-
fashioned ball, luncheon and program.
	The ladies of the four wards, with their
husbands and the Stake officers of the soci-
ty met at the opera house at three p. m.
and listened to the following program which
was given by the four wards:
	Mrs. E. J. T. Roberts, master of cere-
monies.
	1. Singing by the congregation, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” 2. In-
vocation—Mary Ann Webb. 3. “Oh, my
Father.” 4. Address of welcome—Kate
Allred. 5. Remarks—President R. Stand-
ring.
	6. Duet—Mrs. Lucy Whitman and Mrs.
Margaret Clark. 7. Narrative of a visit of
a stranger—M. A. Sorensen.
	8. Singing: “Count your Blessings.”
	9. Reading—M. J. Gray. 10. Remarks,
—Bishop Gardner, 2nd ward. 11. Vocal
solo—Mrs. Harris Hill.
	12. Presentation of a silk down quilt by
the members of the four wards of Lehi and
the Stake officers to Sister Standring, by
Sister Hindley of Am. Fork, counselor to
Mrs. Standring.
	13. Piano solo, Jennie Webb.
	14. Remarks by Mrs, Standring.
	15. Singing, “Spirit of God.”
	16. Benediction—Wm. Southwick.
	Luncheon was served iu the opera house
until 6,30 p. m. when the ball opened and
was enjpyed by the old and the young who
participated in the old time quadrilles and
other dances of by-gone days.
	The following words were composed for
the occasion and sung by Mrs. Lucy Whit-
man and her sister, Mrs. Margaret Clark..

			MARGARET.	

	Down life’s hill you’re slowly wending,
		Past the heights you’ve toiled to climb;
	Light and shadow strangely blending,
		Checker all the vanished time,
	But no gloomy shadows ever
		Shut the light of love away,
	Still your heart is true and tender,
		Though the gold has turned to gray. 

	Sister, you were never dearer,
		In the spring of youth than now,
	When life’s winter eve draws nearer
		And its frost is on your brow,
	For the love that sweetiy blossomed,
		When your life was in its May,
	Now its precious fruit is bearing,
		While we reap it day by day.

	Dearest sister we have met here
		With hearts filled with gratitude,
	For the loving care and wisdom,
		For thy everlasting good.
	Though thy strength is slowly waning,
		Love is with you day by day,
	Pray that God will ever bless you, 
		And protect you on your way. 

	Dearest sister, don’t get weary. 
		For thy faith is staunch and true,
	And so many rely upon you
		For your help and ceunsel, too.
	God grant that you may have comfort,
		While you journey on your way, 
	That your life will be an Eden,
		In the world while you may stay.

	Eighty years and more have passed you,
		And you’ve toiled both brave and true,
	In the cause of Christ our Father,
		He hath given you much to do.
	We’ll strive to show our appreciation
		Of the work so grand and true,
	Each work out her own salvation, 
		As ’twas planned for us to do.


44		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts:
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. - - March, 1909.


RELIEF SOEIETY CONFERENCE.
	The April Conference of the General Relief
Society will be held in Salt Lake City,
Assembly Hall, Friday and Saturday April
2 and 3, 1909; meetings commencing at 10
a. m. and 1 p. m.
	Saturday morning at 10 o’clock, an offic-
er’s meeting well be held in the Fourteenth
ward, at which all stake officers of the So-
ciety, who can are expected to be present.
	Saturday afternoon at 2 will be the clos-
ing meeting of the conference. It is desired
that there should be a representation from
every stake organization and a large attend-
ance of members.
	The General Authorities of the Church and
officers and members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary associations are cordially in-
vited to be present at the three conference
meetings in the Assembly Hall.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
				Counselor.


THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	Out of the multitudinous events that have
recently transpired and occur from day to
day it is difficult to select the most impor-
tant, and one feels as if one line about each
would fill volumes of space. But in the
United States during the present month of
March 1909—there has taken place one event
of paramount significance to the people of
this great Republic. The inauguration of
the new President Wm. H. Taft whom all
Republicans and doubtless many Democrats
seem to recognize as the best representative
for that position of all the people of this
country, except may be a few who still seem
to regret Theodore Roosevelt would not run
for a third term.
	The writer is not familiar enough with the
public affairs of this great work of adminis-
tration of the President and Cabinet to give
an opinion, but judging from those who do
know a great deal of the business of this
mighty nation—we may look for wisdom
justice and prudence in the management of
all the grave questions that confront the
American people in these days of momen-
tous problems and magnificent triumphs the
world oyer: in advancement along the lines
of higher achievement with infinitely greater
advantages and power for controlling the
forces of nature and the elements that are
to be made the important factors in revolu-
tionizing the world of thought and activ-


ity. It will be for the well-being of America
to have confidence in the man who stands
at the head of the greatest interests of this
land of the free of which with great pride
Americans boast. Confidence and faith in
the integrity and magnanimity of the great
leader helps tho nation, as it helps in any
cause of great magnitude.
	It was a significant omen of good when
Mrs. Taft rode to the White House with her
husband after the inauguration and the Pre-
sident stepped into the Executive Mansion
with a woman on his arm; it was the first
occasion of such an incident, and it is a sign
of the times, and yet why should it seem
strange when the centuries passed have wit-
nessed the coronation of many women sover-
eigns in their own right.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE.
	We speak of the dear ones who have gone
from among the living as having passed to
the “beyond.” We know not just how to
express these things, and seemingly we try,
more or less in vain, to understand the mys-
tery of what we all term death.
	It is hard for those sorely tried to be com-
forted with the assurances of faith and hope
and after all only time can soften the in-
tense grief of an aching heart, bereft of
the nearest and dearest, and yet one
must believe all is well.

		“Beyond life’s trials and cares,
	Its hopes and joys, its miseries and sorrows,
	Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
	Will be a long, sweet life unmarked by years,
		One bright, unending morrow.
	
		Beyond time’s troubled stream,
	Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river,
	Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
	Its dark realities and brighter dreams—
		A beautiful forever.

		No aching hearts are there
	No forms by sickness wasted,
	No cheek grown pale by penury or care;
	No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear,
		No sighs for bliss untasted.

		No sad farewell is heard,
	No lonely wail for loving ones departed,
	No dark remorse is there o’er memories stirred,
	No smile of scorn, no harsh or cruel word
		To grieve the broken-hearted.
	
		No long, dark night is there,
	No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
	But Christ, the Lamb of God all bright and
		fair,
	Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
		The glorious light of heaven!

		No mortal eye hath seen
	The glories of that land beyond the river
	Its crystal lakes, its fields of living green,
	Its fadeless flowers and the unchanging sheen
		Around the throne forever.

		Ear hath not heard the song
	Of rapturous praise within the eternal portal,
	No heart of man hath dreamed what joys be-
		long,
	To that redeemed and blood-washed happy
		throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”

	This poem seems to be particularly suited
to those who mourn the society of the most
beloved—a mother. There is no recompense
in this life except the thought of the greater
happiness of the higher life for the departed.
	What words are there however tender that
can soothe the pain that comes to those be-
reft of the dearest being on the earth, for
there is no one like a mother and no love
like Mother-Love.

[Column 2]
	Friends come with love and tenderness in
their souls and offer the balm of consolation,
bringing the best gifts they have to bestow,
but what does it avail? Such deep wounds
take time to heal, sometimes one thinks
’twere better not to speak, and yet that, too,
is cruel, and so we do our best to show our
love by kindly deeds, and sympathetic dem-
onstrations, to wipe away the tears of those
who mourn; the way is dark to them, as
they are blinded by tears, yet there is a
strong arm near to lean upon, a Guide who
never forsakes His own, his chosen ones, He
hears the cry of all who call on Him and
he will keep watch and ward.
	There is a great comfort in being near our
dear ones in the last trying hours, some-
times even that is not possible, to feel that
we have done all in our power to alleviate
pain, ministering with sweet words and
tenderness such as only loving hearts can
render, these blessings were given to Sister
Hyde in the long, tedious days and nights of
her lingering illness. Only those whose
love was surpassingly pure and uplifting
were near her; what a boon of comfort it
must have been, and she knew that hund-
dreds of her friends were praying for her re-
covery; praying she might live to accom-
plish all she desired. But death came and
set his seal upon her brow, and human
efforts were in vain to stay his hand. And
so finally she passed peacefully away.

	“O sweet is the slumber wherewith the King
		Hath caused the weary to rest!
	For sleeping they hear the angels sing,
		They lean on the Master’s breast.

	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde was an excep-
tionally bright and gifted and progressive
woman, she had in her girlhood all the ad-
vantages of a liberal education that the
schools and the Deseret University could
give at that period of time, and her home
life gave her rare opportunities. Her father,
President John Taylor, was a man of cul-
ture and scholarly attainments and took
great pains with his childrens’ education,
her mother, Sister Jane Ballantyne Taylor
was a genuine Scotch gentlewoman in its
true and best sense, and therefore Annie had
the excellent training in girlhood to prepare
her for the position of wife and mother, and
to step forward into the world of affairs, and
do an excellent public work. She had also
every advantage of religious training possi-
ble in the early days. One might say she
was thoroughly equipped for the mission
given her later in public life, by early asso-
ciation and discipline. She commenced as
a teacher in Sunday School at thirteen, and
afterwards taught for some time a private
school in connection with her sister, Sophia
Taylor Nuttall, and she had the best social
advantages the city of Salt Lake afforded
in those days. Occasionally she accompan-
ied her father on his preaching tours through
different parts of the state and this gave her
a wide experience among the people in var-
ious localities.
	Annie Taylor was born in Salt Lake City
October 21, 1849—and was married to
Alonzo E. Hyde on the 15th of December.
1870. The marriage ceremony was performed
by her father Apostle John Taylor.
	Her home was a pattern of exquisite
neatness and skilled housewifery, and she de-
veloped the best and truest characteristics of
motherhood in its fullest sense. Sister
Hyde had excellent taste in dress and in the
furnishing and adornment of her home, she
loved beautiful things in nature and in art,
and was especiaally fond of flowers, partic-
ularly delicate roses.


[Column 1]
	Sister Hyde was fond of travel and after
her marriage had opportunities to visit
many of the large cities East and West,
even before she had commenced a public
career; these trips of course, gave her
broader views and enlightenment upon his-
tory of cities and countries and the topics of
the times, and also widened her horizon.
	She went abroad with her husband in
1895, and traveled in England, her father’s
native land, and in Scotland (her mother’s
native home) also visited France, she was a
good observer and was able to converse in-
telligently of the most interesting, attract-
ive and historical scenes and places, and of
the beautiful in nature, as well as art. The
most celebrated cities, London, Paris and
Edinburgh, she thoroughly enjoyed and
could describe entertainingly, and those who
heard her speak in the “Reapers” after her
return home, were delighted with the graph-
ic description that she gave of the wonders of
the old world.
	Her first call to public duty after her
marriage, was when she was selected as
counselor to sister Hannah T. King Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Seventeenth
ward; she was at that time a young mother,
and in 1896 she was chosen by President
M. Isabella Horne to be first counselor in
the Relief Society in the Salt Lake Stake,
then including all Salt Lake County.
	In November 1901—when the General
Relief Society was reorganized after the de-
mise of its President, Zina D. H. Young,
she was elected First Counselor to the new
President, Sister Bathsbeba W. Smith, and
retained this position at the time she passed
away.
	April 11, 1901, she called together a few
of the daughters of the pioneers and effected
an organization on that day, the anniversary
of her mother’s birthday; she was elected
President and afterwards given the title of
Founder-General of the Daughters of the
Pioneers, a prosperous society which has its
headquarters in the historic Lion House.
During the period of time Sister Hyde has
held office in the General Relief Society as
First Counselor, she has visited Conferences
in nearly all of the Stakes of Zion, and
many of the missions, where there are
branches of the Relief Society, and has be-
come well known to the members, who will
mourn her loss to the society at large, and
to the sisters personally, who have very
gratefully appreciated her teachings and in-
structions, as also her smiling face, and
cheerful countenance, wherever she met with
them, or wherever she journeyed, whether
the ways were rough or smooth.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde has also represented
the Relief Society in the Triennial of the
National Council of Women of the United
States in Washington, and expected to be in
attendance as a speaker in the Quinquennial
of the International Council of the Women
of the world to be held in Toronto, Canada,
in June, 1909.
	She has been appointed on important
committees in the National Council, and
has held other positions of honor and trust.
	She has been one of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple workers for a number of years and gave
valuable service in the Bureau of Informa-
tion. She possessed in a marked degree
the qualities of leadership.
	In her own household she was recognized
as the sweetest, tenderest and most devoted
of mothers, yet requiring obedience from her
children, who were efficiently trained in the
principles of the Gospel and all needful
home instructions, as well as the graces and

[Column 2]
accomplishments to prepare them for the
exigencies of life.
	Brother and Sister Hyde had eight chil-
dren born to them, all still living, four boys,
and four girls, Alonzo E. Hyde, Jr., Orson
John Hyde, Harold and Gordon Hyde, the
two last are away filling missions, one in
Great Britain, the other in the Sandwich
Islands; the others are Laura, now (Mrs.
Joseph F. Merrill;) Edna, (Mrs. A. J.
Ridges) Beatrice, (Mrs. Rollin W. Dole) and
Miss Jean Hyde. Sister Hyde also leaves
thirteen grandchildren.
	During her illness of several months she
has displayed faith, courage and endurance
almost beyond belief; only surrendering to
the inevitable; in this she manifested her
great strength of character and power to do
battle with the enemy of all flesh.
	She has finished her work and her suffer-
ings are over, and she has gone to a haven
of rest and peace. It may well be said of her
“Her children rise up and call her blessed,
her husband also and he praiseth her.”
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde passed peace-
fully away at her beautiful home opposite
the Temple in this city, on Friday, March
12, at 2:10 p. m.; her husband and children
were at her bedside, bowed in deepest grief,
sorrow and mourning.
	The funeral of Sister Hyde was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday March, 12,
at 12 M. The services were conducted by Bish-
op F. S. Tingey of the Seventeenth Ward, and
present on the stand were Presidents John
R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, Elders F.
M. Lyman, H. J. Grant, Hyrum M. and
George A. Smith, of the Apostles. The
stand and organ were draped in white, and
a life-sized picture of the deceased hung in
front of the organ. The floral offerings
were very lovely; and many of them deli-
cate and fragrant gifts from dear ones,
they quite covered the elegant white casket
and also the lower part of the stand.
	The opening hpmn rendered by the Tem-
ple choir was “O, my Father,” and President
Nephi L. Morris of the Salt Lake Stake
offered the prayer. Sister Lizzie Thomas
Edward sang exquisitely “Who are these
arrayed in white.”
	The speakers were Elder J. Golden Kim-
ball who referred to her many virtues and
brave endurance of trial, etc.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne, who paid a
glowing tribute to her memory also her
noble character as a woman and a Saint,
and to her untiring devotion and profound
knowledge of Relief Society work.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith rejoiced
in the belief that she had gone in peace and re-
ferred to her integrity and faithfulness, said
she knew she would miss her in the Relief
Society.
	Charles R. Pike sang, “I know that my
Redeemer Liveth,” a favorite hymn of Sister
Heyde’s.
	Elder F. M. Lyman read from the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants, referring to the
condition of those who die, even where there
has been great exercise of faith manifest.
He said her time had come, She had done
her work and done it well. Said it was
proper that all should go when their work
was done. Spoke of the joys of the meeting
on the other side, and invoked God’s bless-
ing on the family.
	President John R. Winder said he could
imagine her father standing on the other
side waiting with outstretched arms to wel-
come his daughter, wbo had been a good
mother and faithful Latter-day Saint. He
remembered Annie and her sister Sophia

[Column 3]
Taylor when they were children, and said
many more good things.
	The choir sang the glorious hymn, “Abide
With Me,” and Elder Seymour B. Young
read a few lines from a poem and pro-
nounced the benediction.
	In the long line of carriages that followed
the remains of the deceased to the cemetery,
besides those containing the family and rela-
tives, there were four carriages filled with
the officers and board of the General Relief
Society, and the big Utah in which were
some of the Daughters of the Pioneers,
about thirty.
	At the grave the choir sang “Rest on the
hillside, rest,” and sister Hyde’s brother,
John W. Taylor, dedicated her last resting
place.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIAL HALL PARTIES.
	Thursday, February 9, 1909, the Social
Hall built at an early date, 1853, as a place
of amusement and recreation by President
Young and his coadjutors, was reopened
and rededicated for similar purposes as had
been designed in the distant past.
	The Genealogical Society of ladies had in-
terceded persistently with brethren in author-
ity in the Church, and finally succeeded in
getting the hall renovated and made suit-
able for a gathering place for said society
and others. The Presiding Bishop and his
Counselors rendered valuable assistance to
the sisters whose untiring energy and efforts
ultimately culminated in a series of enjoy-
able parties.
	The first one given was by the First Presi-
dency of the Church and the invited guests
were mostly those who were familiar with
the events, and incidents connected with
this notable structure in its palmy days.
After the banquet, which was a sumptuous
one, served in the commodious dining room,
downstairs; where many noble men and
women had been feasted royally in days
gone by, and many equal in merit surround-
ed the hospitable tables on the present occa-
sion. The floral table decorations were very
beautiful and fragrant, and a genial
spirit of good fellowship prevailed.
	Leaving the tables the goodly company
repaired to the upper room and platform
where a sort of program was given, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, master of ceremonies,
who called upon Presiding Bishop C. W.
Nibley to offer the dedicatory prayer, which
was sublimely eloquent. Clive’s band was
in attendance and rendered beautiful music.
After singing a hymn, President Joseph F.
Smith made some explanations in regard to
the auspicious occasion and the energy of
the sisters who had been instrumental in
bringing about this change in the hall; com-
mended their efforts to restore the house so
full of memories of a bygone period; his re-
marks were poetical and he spoke with
great feeling and tenderness of those who
had been the founders of early efforts in cul-
ture and enjoyment for the people, who had
to struggle in building and making habitable
and beautiful the waste places. Referred
wtth great deference and tenderness to Brig-
ham Young and his associates in helping
the Saints to have suitable recreation and
enjoyment as well as labor.
	President Smith called upon a few of the
brethren to give brief reminiscenses; those
who had been familiarly conversant with the
theatres, balls and a variety of entertain-
ments that had been given in this unpreten-
tious edifice, sacred, too, because of those


[Column 1]
who had made their names illustrious in the
history of the Rocky mountain region, Elder
A. M. Musser, Hon. John T. Caine, Bishop
George Romney, Hon. W. W. Riter, Bishop
H. B. Clawson and his wife Margaret; Sister
Clawson had taken part in the first theat-
rical performance in the hall and in the old
bowery responded. Her repetition of the
scenes of the primitive attempts at ‘‘making
up” were intensely entertaining and she was
applauded to the echo.
	After the simple exercises that were in
excellent taste, dancing was announced,
commencing however, with a grand March.
The figures were old-fashioned plain quad-
rilles, French Four, Money Musk, Sir Roger
de Coverley, and Scotch Reels.
	Some of us who had attended parties in
this famous old hall could see imaginary
pictures and called up vivid recollections of
the people who had tripped fantastically
in the mazy dances of the “Long Ago.”
	Toward the close of the evening some ap-
propriate closing remarks were made by
President Smith in which he informed the
company that it was the one hundredth and
ninth anniversary of the birth of his father,
Hyrum Smith, (the patriarch and martyr.)


	The second party of the series was given
by the Genealogical Society and was a
splendid success in every particular, a delic-
ious hot supper was served, three long tables
filled as before, and lovely decorations, and
conversation among the guests of “ye olden
time” the social festivities and old-time
games and dances, and who played the fid-
dles and where were they now? All gone
save one, “Josh Midgley.’” Only a few
women of that very early day in the fifties
when such men as Presidents Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Daniel H. Wells,
George A. Smith and others mingled in the
dance and festivities of those memorable
years of Utah’s early history of events.
	After the delicious repast the guests re-
paired to the upper hall and platform and
the exercises began with singing, an appro-
priate hymn, and prayer was offered by Elder
Hyrum M. Smith, after another hymn being
rendered, President Anthon H. Lund gave a
short synopsis of the Genealogical work, ex-
plaining how diligent and faithful the sis-
ters had been who had undertaken it, and
spoke very highly of them, and portrayed
somewhat briefly the future of this mag-
nanimous work for the dead. Elder Heber
J. Grant sang during the evening, “The
Flag Without a Stain.” Clive’s band were
in place on the platform, and dancing be-
gan and continued for some time, all seem-
ing to enjoy the exercise, judging by appear-
ances; finally there was a sort of interval
and singing and conversation was indulged
in meanwhile. Dr. Seymour B. Young took
the lead in singing, “There is Sunshine in
my Soul,” in which many joined, President
John R. Winder singing as clearly and with
as much enthusiasm as any young man.
President Joseph F. Smith’s presence was
missed, but the fact that he was away for a
rest and a change compensated in some
measure for his absence. However both his
Counselors and several members of the
quorum of the Apostles were present and
the party was really very enjoyable and ex-
hilarating, especially for those who took part
in the dancing, although, meeting one’s
friends’and exchanging courtesies is quite
good for us all, calling up old memories and
inquiring after friends of former days.

[Column 2]
	The third party of the series was given
Thursday March 18, and by the bye, was the
birthday anniversary of Susa Young Gates.
who was the first child born in the Lion
House, and really the fact should have been
announced there, even at the risk of vexing
the lady herself.
	The gathering was called the Kirtland
party, and as many Kirtland people and
their descendants as could be found were in-
vited. The secretary, Miss Annie Lynch,
sent out a large number of letters, in fact,
we are told, six hundred invitations were
issued to those whose names could be ascer-
tained.
	Elder George D. Pyper was master of
ceremonies and the exercises of the eve-
ning began with prayer by Elder Milando
Pratt and the hymns that were sung were
those that had been favorites of the Saints
in the Kirtland Temple. The dancing was,
perhaps, a little more old-fashioned than at
the other parties, beginning with a grand
march, in which nearly all present partici-
pated. There were some unique features of
the evening; the committee were anxious to
know how many were present who had lived
in Kirtland and they were asked to stand;
five rose up on the platform in view of the
assembly; they were Sisters Martha D. Si-
mons, Mary Ann Winters, and Sally Knight
Palmer, and patriarch John Smith and
W. C. Whitman. Sister Simons, who
who will soon be eighty-three, was asked to
speak, and among her reminiscences she
stated that she had seen the papyrus from
which the Pearl of Great Price was trans-
lated, and also the coins shown in the book;
she gave this as a testimony to the young
people. Sister Simons dances well, and very
much enjoyed it.
	Patriarch John Smith had with him a cane
owned by his father,Patriarch Hyrum Smith.
Brother W. C. Whitman presented a rare
relic, which the historic division of the Gen-
ealogical Society prize very much, a beauti-
fully carved cane, made by his nephew from
a newel post of the Kirtland Temple; this-
with other relics, made an interesting collec,
tion. Much enthusiasm is felt over these
historic parties. About fifty letters were re-
ceived from Kirtland pioneers and their
descendants who could not be present.
	A very interesting feature of the enter-
tainment was a recitation in costume called
Money Musk, by Mrs. Winniefred Brown,
given very dramatically, Professor C. D.
Schettler accompanying on the guitar. This
exercise was so applauded that the obliging
little lady gave an encore.
	A summary of the work of the So-
ciety had been prepared by Miss Lynch, the
secretary, who is indefatigable in her labors,
and was read by Elder George D. Pyper.
Sister Susa Young Gates made a short
speech in her original style, and Miss Ina
Smith had collected a few items of Church
history, notable events that had transpired
in the month of March, beginning with
1831, there were quite a few facts presented
that would be entirely new to most of those
present, therefore added to the pleasure
of music, dancing, etc., there was valuable
information given of past incidents and
events.
	The sisters who had been instrumental in
bringing so much real enjoyment to their
friends deserve our gratitude as well as sin-
cere congratulations, Sister Edna L. Smith,
Susa Y. Gates and Ann D. Groesbeck, and
their very efficient secretary, Annie Lynch.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
	Died at Toquerville, July 25th, 1908, Sister Ann
Brumell Cooper Savage after a very short illness.
She was born in Arlington, Cambridge, England,
March 28, 1815. Joined the Church in 1843,
emigrated to Zion 1857, with three little girls.
Pulled a handcart across the plains, buried one
of her little girls at Iowa. Was in Captain At-
wood’s company. Arrived in Salt Lake City Nov.
9th, 1857. Married Levi Savage Oct. 31, 1858 in
Lehi, Utah. Moved to Dixie in 1863. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint. A model homemaker,
an affectionate wife and mother, of a bright sunny
disposition. Was a faithful teacher in the Relief
Society in our first organization, had a class of
young girls and taught them to braid and sew
straw hats of all kinds.
	She leaves an aged husband, two daughters,
three grandchildren and a number of great grand-
children, and numerous friends to mourn her loss.
She was respected and beloved by all who knew
her.

	Died at Toquerville, Aug. 21, 1908, Sarah Par-
kinson Stapley, born May 24, 1831, Cambridge,
England. Embraced the gospel in Australia, in
1853, sailed for Zion 1854, landed in San Pedro,
Cal., June 13, 1854. Married to Charles Stapley
July 24, 1854. Came to Utah 1858 and settled in
Toquerville. She was the mother of eleven chil-
dren, six daughters and five sons. Three daught-
ers have preceded her to the other world. She was
a staunch Latter-day Saint, a devoted wife and
mother, and had to make great sacrifices for her
religion. She was always an active worker in the
Relief Society, being treasurer, counselor, and
teacher, for years, always filling each position with
honor. She has gone to a well earned rest. Her
memory is sacred to all who knew her.
	We all enjoy the Exponent and wish you suc-
cess in your good work for the elevation of wo-
man.
Your Sisters in the Gospel,
R. J. SPILSBURY, Prest.
ELIZABETH W. LAMB, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
			GRANITE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Granite
Stake Relief Society was held at the Stake
Tabernacle on Tuesday, December 15, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m.
	The morning session was well attended
and was addressed by the Stake Presidency
and High Council, who were present, with
songs by the choir, and solo “My mountain
home,” by Sister Lucy M. Green.
	The afternoon program was rendered by
the Stake Relief Society choir of 35 voices,
and “The life of Christ in song and story”
was the subject, with lecture by Prof. Joshua
H. Paul, and connective scripture readings
by Sister Lucy M. Green.
	The full musical program follows:
	Hymn, “O Jesus the giver,” congregation;
Hymn, “Far far away on Judah’s plains,”
choir; Hymn, “Christmas Carol,” choir;
Double Duett, ‘‘The angels song;” Hymn,
“Behold the Lamb of God,” choir; Song,
Galilee,” Sister Alice Eccles and choir; Song,
“Master the tempest is raging,” choir; Solo,
“Gethsemane,” Sister Lilian E. Bruerton;
Solo, “Calvary,” Sister Alice Eccles; Hymn,
“Behold the great Redeemer die,” choir;
Hymn, “Hark ten thousand voices,” choir.
	The principal events in the Life of Christ
were commented on by the lecturer, and il-
lustrated by the song rendered, and the pro-
gram was greatly enjoyed by all present.
	LUCY M. GREEN, Chorister,
	LILLIAN E. BRUERTON, Accompanist.
	LUCY M. GREEN, Cor. Secy.


The vote in the South Dakota House for
full suffrage was even better than first re-
ported. It stood 34 to 9.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine Stake was held at Lehi, Fri-
day, October 30th, 1908. President Rebecca
Standring presiding. Meeting opened at 10
o’clock by the choir singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.” Prayer
was offered by Stake Counselor A. J. Evans.
Singing, “Come ye who love the Lord.”
Minutes read, etc. All wards represented.
	President Standring welcomed the sisters.
Was thankful for the good reports she re-
ceived from the stake officers, as she was
not always able to visit the wards as much
as she would like. Prayed that faith might
increase with the sisters. Urged the teachers
to do their duty and inquire into the feelings
and condition of the sisters. Spoke of the
General Relief Society Conference at Salt
Lake and felt that the blessing she received
had fully paid her for attending. The sisters
were there urged to teach the young women
the importance of Temple ordinances and
marriage for eternity. Also that the sisters
could take the holy oil and administer to the
sisters and their children. “We know there
is no blessing that will be withheld from the
sisters if they are faithful.”
	The four wards of Lehi were reported by
their respective presidents. All united, of-
ficers and members. All in good working
condition. Attend to the mothers lessons
and enjoy the teachings they get. Are mak-
ing clothing and quilts for the poor, and have
put their granaries in good condition for
keeping the wheat.
	Song, “Only waiting,” Sisters Clarke and
Whitman.
	Brother Jos. H. Clarke of the Stake Presi-
dency made an excellent address full of in-
spiration and wisdom. He touched briefly
upon many subjects pertaining to life here
and hereafter, care of children, eternity of
marriage, etc.
	A brief sketch of the life and and labors
of President Rebecca Standring was read by
Sister Sina Chipman.
	Sister Standring responded in a few fitting
words, giving the glory and praise to God
for all the gifts bestowed upon her, and for
all her blessings.
	Singing, “Glory to God on high.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Harriet Jacobs.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session at 2 o’clock. President
Standring presiding. Counselor Jacobs in
charge. Opening devotional exercises, mi-
nutes, etc.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs in her opening
address spoke of the care given to the sick,
this is preparing us for our future life.
Thanked the officers and committee who had
prepared such a nice entertainment for all
the sisters present during the noon recess.
	Three wards of American Fork were re-
ported by the presidents, all doing nicely
with an increase in attendance. Keep in
close touch with the wards. Help those who
are crowded with sewing for the children.
Gain a benefit from “mothers lessons.” Have
sent two young sisters to the Nurse class.
Teachers doing well and trying to have Gos-
pel talks with the sisters in their homes.
	Instrumental music by Sister J. Allred
Webb.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman was
delighted with the exercises, and the spirit
of peace and good will that exists, also with
the testimonies borne. Rejoiced in the word
of wisdom being kept, it is an old subject
and we each of us know how well we have
lived up to its requirements; he then read

[Column 2]
the revelation on the word of wisdom which
was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
which we have now been required to observe
as a commandment. The people should be
constrained to observe it as a duty. Some
have one excuse and some another. Hoped
that before many years that we will have no
saloons in our midst and they who run them
will find better occupation, then there will
be more happiness and comfort in our fami-
lies. Let us stand shoulder to shoulder and
see if we cannot make an improvement in
this line. May the Lord bless you in your
labors.
	Duett, “Sometime, somewhere,” Sisters
Korten and Stice.
	Sister Annie C. Hindley gave a very inter-
esting sketch of the life of Sister Emma Hale
Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
showing her humility of heart, her devotion
to her husband and her ability to preside.
	Brother A. J. Evans, of the Stake Presi-
dency, felt happy to see so many young
mothers present, and heartily endorsed the
revelation read by President Chipman and
also his remarks on the same. Sisters, plead
with your husbands to refrain from the habit
of smoking, for their sakes, for your sake,
and for the childrens sake. Referred to the
sermon on the Mount and advised the sisters
to read all three chapters. Our mission is to
keep our light burning; speak words of kind-
ness to those who are in trouble.
	President Standring rejoiced in this day’s
conference. Thanked all who had taken
part in any way and blessed the sisters.
Asked the Lord to strengthen us that we
may be able to put in practise the good in-
structions we have received today, desired
the blessing of the Lord on all present.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.
			DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of one hundred and twenty-
fourth conference of the Davis Stake Relief
Society held January 29, 1909 at Bountiful,
Utah, President M. E. Knowlton presiding.
	Opened with usual exercises of singing
and prayer.
	Counselor Elizabeth Ford was pleased to
meet the brothers and sisters in conference
this morning. Said we are all united in
our labors as a board, and made explana-
tions about the Stake work.
	Counselor Emma J. Strong felt well in
attending conference. Spoke on the sub-
ject of Temple work and thought a great
deal of good will result from the efforts of
the sisters in working in the Temple. If
we observe the Word of Wisdom and live
near to the Lord, we will not have so much
illness in our families.
	A vocal solo, “Face to Face,” was rend-
ered by Miss Cora Barlow.
	Reports were then heard from the follow-
ing branches: South Bountiful, West
Bountiful, East Bountiful, Centerville and
Farmington.
	Elder Wallace W. Willey felt pleased with
the reports. The Relief Society should be
second to no other organization in the
Church. It is a great benefit to women and
all married women should be members. The
Relief Society is a great benefit to the bish-
ops of each ward.
	Sister Mary Woolley, Stake missionary,
said she was interested in Relief Society
work and loved it. It is truly a privilege to
visit the different organizations in the stake.

[Column 3]
We find the spirit of the Lord wherever we
go.
	President M. E. Knowlton was delighted
and was pleased the elements were favor-
able to our conference. After indefatigable
labor and effort the outlines of study for the 
Relief Society for 1909, and 1910 were
completed at last. We have a lew copies
for distribution this morning. They have
been approved of by the General Board and
the stake Presidency.
	President Nancy Willey of East Bounti-
ful said we have prepared lunch and desire
all to remain and partake of it.
	Singing “Glorious things of thee are
spoken.”
	Prayer by President Emma J. Strong.
	Officers meeting held at 1 p. m. Prayer
by President M. E. Knowlton. A calendar
of visits for the coming year was prepared
each president giving the time and date of
holding their meeting.
	Sister Myra Winegar was released as
Stake missionary. Sisters Edith Eldredge
of West Bountiful, Ellen Smith of Clearfield
and Esther Haddock of Clinton were sus-
tained and set apart as Stake missionaries.
	Sister Mary S. Leonard was honorably
released as assistant Stake secretary and
Sister Rozelpha J. Knowlton was unanimous-
ly sustained as assistant Stake secretary.
	The balance of the time was devoted to
the reading and discussion of the Outlines.
	Dismissed by Counselor Emma J. Strong.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 p. m.
with usual exercises.
	Counselor Elizabeth Ford was very well
pleased to see the large number present.
Of all women we are the most blessed in
our opportunities for doing good. I pray
that we may all live up to our privileges as
Latter-day Saints.
	The following society organizations were
then reported: Kaysville Layton, Clinton
and Clearfield.
	Sister Jane J. Eldredge spoke on the sub-
ject of obedience. None of us are our own
masters, as we are governed by the laws of
God, and we must bring ourselves under
subjection to his will. If we break these
laws we will suffer the penalty. It is one of
the greatesr laws of the kingdom of God, for
by being obedient we will progress and live
to better the world and better makind.
	Counselor Emma J. Strong said, I love
the society of the Relief Society sisters. I
have been asked to report our Temple work.
A day was selected the 22nd of January to
devote a day to work in the Temple for the
poor, or for those who cannot do their own
work. One hundred and seventy-nine re-
sponded, which exceeded our expectations.
In three months we will go again, as I think
it will do a lot of good. Spoke on the nec-
essity of observing the Word of Wisdom so
we can ask our Bishops for a recommend to
the House of the Lord.
	A quartette, “Come where the Lilies
Bloom,” was very nicely rendered by young
ladies.
	Counselor James A. Eldredge explained
the absence of President Grant and his
mother Sister Grant, as they were attending
services over the funeral remains of Sister
Rachel Grant today. Also spoke of the ill-
ness of Counselor Jesse M. Smith, which
prevented his attending the conference. There
is a great responsibility resting upon us as
Latter-day Saints, we receive so many in-
structions, we ought to be the best people on
earth. Gave a brief account of the first
organization of the Relief Society and the
first officers. From this small beginning


this society has increased to over 35,000
members.
	President M. E. Knowlton felt to endorse
all that had been said. If we have perfect
faith we can be healed instantly, but we
must be obedient to the will of our Father
in heaven. Life is not the dearest gift, a
great many things are of more importance.
Be reconciled to the will of the Father what-
ever it is.
	Sister Mary S. Clark, a very reverend
woman, for many years first counselor in the
Stake was well pleased to see so large a con-
gregation who were willing to lay aside their
work for one day and attend conference.
Let us attend to our prayers. Set a good
example before our children. I pray we
may be blessed as a people and live to receive
the reward prepared for the faithful.
	Conference aejourned for three months.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning."
	Benediction, Sister Catherine Knowlton.
HULDA L. MILLER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BURIAL CUSTOMS IN ENGLAND.
	Every Country has its peculiarities, and
England is no exception. One thing notice-
able is the church building at the cemetery,
with its wide covered arch, which separates
the church from the chapel. Services are
not held at the home, but at the church or
chapel mentioned, according to the faith of
the departed. As a rule the funeral cortege
drives under the arch, the coffin is borne
into church on the shoulders of four or six
pall bearers. The coffins are plain, of heavy
wood and have no shell, everything is black
about the ceremonies.
	Only rarely friends accompany the mourn-
ers who are composed of members of the
family only. The pall bearers are paid for
services; and on one occasion we saw the
money handed to them, while the closing
portion of the burial service was being read.
	Lonesome indeed the little group look, as
they occupy the few seats in the church.
The coffin is somewhat elevated; everything
is cold, dreary and cheerless. The priest
reads the burial service of the Church of
England, portions of which is taken from
the fifteenth chapter of Corinthians, in that
monotonous, chanting tone, but always the
words "I am the resurrection and the life"
are quoted. Service being over the pall
bearers carry the coffin as before; the priest
in his white robe, with wide bishop sleeves,
and black surplice over his black dress, and
prayer book pressed to his breast, solemnly
leads the procession to the grave, where he
again reads, "Man that is born of woman,
has not long to stay,—we brought nothing
into the world, and assuredly we can take
nothing out. Dust to dust (when the sex-
ton throws in a little hand full of earth)
ashes to ashes. O, Lord have mercy on our
souls. Amen."
	Looking down into the grave about nine
feet deep (four or five are buried on each
other) the bereaved ones dropping a few
quiet tears turn away, leaving the form so
dear to them, to be covered up at the time
and convenience of the sexton.
	And well it is in one way; they cannot see
how the coffin is jerked around to free it of
the ropes. In one instance they were caught;
a lad about fourteen, was dropped down on
the coffin, and lighting on the plate with his
hobnailed shoes, crushed it in; the sexton
joking meanwhile and laughing, was pulling
up the ropes, when a handle torn from its
a stenings was pulled up, falling on the cof-

[Column 2]
fin. With feelings indescribable one turns
away.
	A warm day in the early autumn, again in-
vites a walk through the cemetery; and with
book in hand it is a pleasure, to sit on one of
the rustic seats, charmingly situated in a leafy
alcove, commanding a view of the grounds,
and there study concerning the mystery of
life and death, and God's word eoncerning
us, and our state hereafter.
	Meditating in deep thought, a little fun-
eral procession catche[-] the eye. Slowly it
wends its way, to only a short distance from
the spot, where we are sitting, where plainly
to be seen is an open grave, not before no-
ticed. A pall bearer with white gloves, is
carrying a little white coffin, whose occupant
could not have been many weeks in this
"vale of tears" the young father and mother
following. The first baby was plainly writ-
ten, as the group surrounded the grave.
	The service is read, the minister returns to
the church; the bereaved parents look down,
(the mother's heart in her eyes,) for the last
glimpse of the tiny coffin, when her strength
failing, she is supported by her husband.
Then walk they wearily back to the desolate
home. A few tears of sympathy fall for the
unknown mourners. The scene brings back
other days, when we were the chief mourn-
ers in a like drama, in a land beyond the
sea.
	The present fades, and the hill far away,
where sleep thousands of God's children
rises to view, and pangs of sorrow again fill
the heart that was bereaved in the days long
ago. Still watching the young couple de-
scending to the gate, the glory of a Utah
sunset comes vividly to mind; and standing
by the graves of a household, we look to the
West; again the crimson and gold dazzle the
eye, as the sun's last rays, scintillate over
the broad bosom of the Great Salt Lake.
	The well known surroundings are there;
and stepping lightly on the green grass that
covers them over, each mound is visited.
But it is only a day dream, the present
comes forcibly to mind, as the thud of a
heavy iron falls on the ear, and suddenly we
become aware that the little grave is being
filled up.
	Is it possible that they are pounding on
that frail, little coffin in that way? Yes, it
is too true. One man throws in a few shovels
full of earth, while another stands in the
grave and pounds it down. It makes one
shudder; every thud seems to strike the
heart, for surely that little one must be
crushed to pieces. This is the custom, so
that the earth taken out, is forced back
again; then the sod that has been rolled on
the side, is again replaced, and on the mor-
row, none would ever knew an interment
had taken place.
	Sick at heart we leave for the town, won-
dering if every one who has been laid there
to rest, had been beaten out of all semblance
of the human, as soon as left by their loved
ones. How dear is home and the customs
of the Saints!
	A Winter Burial. The day has been bleak
and cold, the sun giving no light, to dispel
the gloom. Walking rapidly on the broad,
hard road of the cemetery, we see a funeral

[Column 3]
procession, just emerging from the chapel
side, of the edifice before mentioned. Num-
bers of mourners follow the pall bearers, and
a clergyman (Wesleyan) precedes them to
the grave. The prayer book is opened, a
rather lengthy service read; when near its
close, in a solemn voice he says, "Oh, Lord
may this sister come forth in the General
Resurrection, at the Great and Last Day."
	The mourners seem much affected, little
groups of them taking their last farewell, of
this aged mother and friend; then they slow-
ly turn away, going back to the duties of
the living, one Martha remarking, "that she
must be going, so as to be back to get tea."
	The children (all grown) with their friends,
take out the immense handkerchiefs used
here, which as they flutter, look like white
flags, wipe their falling tears, then follow
the rest down the green slope, and soon all
are gone.
	The casket is not known here, the old
fashioned coffin still holds its own, and the
grave is dug to that shape. Looking down
we read the name, and "aged 60 years."
But the closing words of the service ring in
our ears, "to come forth in the General Re-
surrection at the Great and Last Day." O,
how long that will be! Yet that is all they
ask. She had been a good mother, no doubt,
through heat of summer and cold of winter
had struggled on in life; had borne the sons
and daughters who had just laid her away;
had fulfilled her life mission to the best of
[-]er understanding and ability; she had grown
weary of the many and heavy burdens of
life, its crosses and losses and had now fal-
len asleep on the way, and was laid here
until "The General Resurrection at the
Great and Last Day."
	O, the darkness of the human mind, when
it is not illuminated by the light of truth!
	Other scenes of like nature, come to mind,
where the spot is reverently dedicated, for
the repose of the precious dust; that it may
be protected from the elements, from all
that would disturb; and there rest under the
charge of angels, "until the trump shall
sound, and the dead in the Lord shall come
forth, in the Morning of the First Resurrec-
tion, clothed with principalities and powers;
to dwell on the earth with the Redeemer a
thousand years." Then softly the hymn
floats on the air,
"Rest for the weary soul,
Rest for the aching head;
Rest on the hillside rest,
With the uncounted dead."
	But the sexton with aids come up to cover
up the sleeper, and the spell is broken. It
is a dull November day in England, and the
fog is settling down. With a warm feeling
in our hearts, of gratitude to God for the
Gospel, for a prophet's voice, and for an as-
surance, that if faithful, we will not have to
sleep, until "the General Resurrection, at
the Great and Last Day, we leave the City
of the Dead. LYDIA D. ALDER.


Dr. Cora Smith Eaton is chairman of the
Committee on Local Arrangements for the
National Suffrage Convention, to be held in
Seattle July next.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

