O My Father."

Adapted to the tune of "The Nephite Lamentation" as arranged by Professor Henry E. Giles.

The melody of the "Nephite Lamentation" has a very interesting and impressive history. It was given to Thomas Durham of Parowan, Utah, in a dream. Because of its connection with Book of Mormon history it is of special interest to Latter-day Saints. The history of the melody and the story of the dream as given to the publisher by President Canute Peterson of Sanpete Stake are as follows: A promise had been made to Thomas Durham that he should be visited by heavenly beings. In fulfilment of the promise a young man, who proved to be one of the twenty-four Nephites surviving the last great battle between the Nephites and Lamanites at the Hill Cumorah, came to his room and played this melody on a brass horn. Apparently for the purpose of impressing the tune upon Brother Durham's memory, it was repeated three times. In its rendition it seems that the high note in the second strain of the melody was beyond the range of the instrument but by the expression on the face of the young Nephite it was apparent that he was trying to reach a higher note. Brother Durham, being a musician, readily placed the missing note to complete the melody. The rendition so impressed him that he was awakened and immediately arose and wrote the music of the tune to preserve it. The history of the melody, as given to Brother Durham, connects it with the battle of the Hill Cumorah, as related in the Book of Mormon, Mormon, sixth chapter, eleventh verse: "And when they had gone through and hewn down all my people, save it were twenty and four of us, (among whom was my son Moroni, and we having survived the dead of our people, did behold on the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their camps, from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand of my people who were hewn down, being led in the front by me." Fifteenth verse: "And it came to pass that there were ten more who did fall by the sword, with their ten thousand each; yea, even all my people, save it were those twenty and four who were with me, and also a few who had escaped into the south countries, and a few who had dissented over unto the Lamanites, had fallen, and their flesh, and bones, and blood lay upon the face of the earth." (There were 230,000 slain.) When the twenty-four had gathered at the Hill Cumorah the morning after the battle, the young man who appeared to Brother Durham played this same melody as a lamentation for the dead. As he played, he was sitting on the bank of a stream, facing the west, probably overlooking the battle field of the previous day. The melody, having been preserved by Brother Durham after the dream, he later adapted it to the words of the favorite "Mormon" hymn, "O, my Father," and frequently sang it in public. When the melody was given to the writer who, on one occasion at Cedar City, heard it sung by Brother Durham, he arranged it in its present form and has frequently used it as an organ solo for sacramental music. It has created a deep impression whenever played, and is now very frequently requested. The melody is now published as choir music for the first time, and it is hoped and believed that it will be widely used throughout the Church:

Tune—Nephite Lamentation. 
Eliza R. Snow. 
Arr. by H. E. Giles. 

Solo. Andante moderato. 
For a my Father, Thou that dwellest 
In Thy high and glorious place! 
When shall I regain Thy presence, 
And again behold Thy face? 
In Thy holy habitation, 
Did my spirit once reside; 
In my first primeval childhood, 
Was I nurtured near Thy side. 

CHORUS. Very distinct. 
I had learned to call Thee: Father, 
Through Thy Spirit from on high; 
But until the Key of Knowledge 
Was restored, I knew not why. 
In the heav'ns are parents single 
No; the thought makes reason stare! 
Truth is reason, truth eternal 
Tells me I've a mother there. 
When I leave this frail existence, 
When I lay this mortal by, 
Father, Mother, may I meet you 
In your royal courts on high? 
Then, at length, when I've completed 
All you sent me forth to do, 
With your mutual approbation 
Let me come and dwell with you. 

While there are no meetings 
is a good time to read 
"Love By and O. F. The Whitney Light" 
$1.25 at the 

The Book Store of Salt Lake City 
44 E. South Temple Street 

S. S. Dickinson Co. 
676-680 East 2nd South Street 

Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes 
Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes 

KEISTER Ladies' Tailoring College 
Established 1904 
Skilled instructors. Most advanced methods. Strictly money-back to every student. 
Desirable Location 291 Center Street 

Salt Lake City Utah 
37 East First South 

Your Photographs Should Come From 
Better Work Because Better Equipment 

Established 1877 
Phone, Was. 1370 

Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 
55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 

"Say It With Flowers" 
Order from our ever fresh supply. Prompt delivery. Courtesy our motto. Funeral Designs our specialty. 
With DRUEL DRUG CO. 
2nd South, and Main. Busy Corner. 
Phone W. 
The Vitality of Mormonism 
By Dr. James E. Talmage 
This work, consisting of 360 pages, is published by the Gotham Press, Boston, Mass., and comprises the articles written by Dr. Talmage and published in many of the great and influential newspapers of the country. The book contains all the articles published up to the time of its issue. 
Bound in Cloth, $1.50 postpaid 

News Building 6 Main St. 

of SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
Sufficient quick and service. 
One feature is the Unit System, which greatly simplifies transactions. 
Officers 
Heber J. Grant, President 
Henry T. McEwan, Cashier 
George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier 

The Big 1919 Summer Quarter at the: 

1. Courses meeting all requirements of the new Health Education Act will be given. 
2. Teachers and prospective teachers will find courses that meet all certificate requirements. 
3. A full quarter's work toward a degree may be secured. 

Spend your summer on the U. A. C. campus, the prettiest spot in one of the most beautiful valleys in the West. The Summer Quarter begins Monday, June 9, 1919. The second term begins Monday, July 21. Students may enter at the opening of either term. Many courses will run for six weeks only, and many will begin with the second term. The U. A. C. Summer Session will be the biggest quarter in the year. Complete catalog now being prepared. Write for it. 

Address: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. 

Sermon of President Joseph F. Smith. 

President Young once said to Eliza R. Snow: "Tell the sisters not to raffle. If the mothers raffle, the children will gamble. Raffling is gambling. Then it is added: 'Some say what shall we do, we have quilts on hand, we cannot sell them and we need means to supply our treasury which we can obtain by raffling for the benefit of the poor?" Rather let the quilts rot on the shelves than adopt the old adage, 'The end will sanctify the means.' As Latter-day Saints, we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial gain." 

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 
No. Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah 
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c