[Vol5 | October 1918 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Dept Patriotic Department Clarissa Smith Williams]

Patriotic Department. By Clarissa Smith Williams. TO THE GIRLS OF THE STATE OF UTAH. "Uncle Sam" is preparing to call all men between the ages of eighteen and forty-five into active service for their country, but as yet he has placed only a "volunteer draft" upon the women and girls. His advice to "serve your country by entering college" applies equally to the girls of every age whether they be eighth-grade or high-school graduates or college students. If you are an undergraduate it is your duty to make every effort to re-enter school, if you are a graduate, prepare to go on with your work. Your Country Needs Trained Women. Never before has there been such need for trained intelligence as there is in our country today. President Wilson says: "So long as the war continues there will be constant need of very large numbers of men and women of the highest and most thorough training for war service in many lines. After the war, there will be urgent need not only for trained leadership in all lines of industrial, commercial social and civic life, but for a very high average of intelligence and preparation on the part of all the people." Prepare for Service. The President of our nation, the Secretary of the Interior, the Commissioner of Education, and all our great leaders, both national and state, are united in the request they make of our boys and girls to "attend school this winter." This is a time when this nation cannot afford to have one of its children ignorant. Our country is taking our men over seas; and, following the example of France and England, the women will be called more and more to do the work of men. A woman with a trained mind can learn to "shift her job" in much less time and with much greater ease than can ignorant ones. So, the greatest service the girl of today can render her country is to prepare for service tomorrow. Don't Forget the Woman's Job. "Food will win the war" has been placed before us so often of late that it has become a hackneyed sentence. Mr. Herbert 
 Hoover and many other great leaders of today have placed the winning of this war in the hands of the women. This is a war of resources, we are told, and the nation which can best preserve and conserve its resources, both temporal and spiritual, is the one sure to win eventually. Girls, Are You Ready for This Trust? Have you prepared yourselves (or will you do so now) to accept this great responsibility? Your mission has always been to "Soothe and to heal the sick world that leans on you." But can you today direct the spending of the nation's resources in such manner that our own people may be taken care of as well as to save enough to send overseas to our boys and all our allies who are fighting our battles so valiantly? If you can't do it now, you can learn, so that you may "carry on" vigorously the work your mothers are struggling with today. So, go to school and train your mind and your hands and your heart for the great task that awaits the women of the future  the greatest the world has ever known. President Wilson's Message to You. Listen to what our President says: "I would, therefore, urge that the people continue to give generous support to their schools of all grades, and that the schools adjust themselves as wisely as possible to the new conditions, to the end that no boy or girl shall have less opportunity for education because of the war and that the nation may be strengthened as it can only be through the right education of all its people." Our Own State Gives the Same Advice. The Governor and all the leading state officials are united in urging the young people of the state to attend school. It is especially desirous that the mothers of the state are converted to this necessity and to that end the Woman's Committee of the State Council of Defense is lending all its aid in making this plea. If the mothers are united in standing for a cause it is as good as accomplished. The girls are asked to remember that "where there is a will there is a way." and if you are determined to improve your mind and your chances for usefulness, father and mother will help find the way. Also write to the school you desire to attend, and the schools, too, will "help find the way." For suggestions or further help, write to The Woman's Committee of Education, National Council of Defense.