Of the World By Frank Steele TON, scholar, writer and lecturer, had something significant to say recently about that much-discussed subject of religion. Surveying the achievements of science and their relationship with religion this great English observer said: "The organic thing called religion has in fact the organs that take hold on life. Man has taken to himself again his own weapons: will and worship and reason and the vision of the plan in things, and we are once more in the morning of the world, and whatever be the truth about mammals and monkeys that is the exact truth about the survival of present-day religion: it is surviving because nothing else can survive." "The morning of the world." How suggestive is this of the noble words of another great thinker and writer, Parley P. Pratt, who in contemplating the outpouring of truth in these modern times exclaimed: (5 ton. K. CHESTERThe morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo, Zion's standard is unfurled; The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. The world, like the Prodigal, has grown weary of its materialism. Again quoting Chesterton, it has found that only spiritual things survive. The Prodigal discovering only disillusionment and remorse at the end of his mad quest for pleasure and riches, came to himself 'and turned again to his father. Likewise, the world in the past year or more has found that "treasures on earth" can be swept away over night and that the morning brings its regrets. Humbled, men are turning to the Father, are seeking once more the security of their spiritual home and through the whole experience of the war and the years of readjustment following, including the economic crisis from which the world is now gradually emerging, there shines the vision of a marked religious revival. 'Julius Raskob, the financier and economist, realising this deeper, sounder need said not long ago: "Our materialism has broken down and we need spiritual bases on which to rest our lives." HE centennial year of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was anticipated with the keenest of interest by the members of the church. It was the hope, the expectation of many that it would be a year marked 'by some special manifestation of God's favor to the Church, a year of revelation, of spiritual uplift. The centennial THE MORNING OF was an occasion of signal thanksgiving, rejoicing and blessing to the people, but the year also brought a financial panic probably unparalleled in the economic history of America. During this stress period few escaped. I*ortunes were swept away as one stock collapse followed another. Men rated as independent saw their life's savings vanish. I'armers and ranchers met a decline in the price of their products that spelled disaster. Scores of salaried men 'were thrown out of employment while others saw their incomes cut down as employers hastened to "cover up" by curtailing all along the line. In this confusion a new spirit was born. Out of the chaos grew a realization of the paramount value and worth of spiritual things and we are wondering now as we look backward lif this financial collapse, during the year of centennial celebration, was not a blessing, if perchance it was not a means of bringing us closer to God. A stake president said recently: "We are experiencing hard times it is true, but they are making us more humble, better Latter-day Saints. We note a revival of interest in every department of our stake work." In this return to God, and to 'spiritual values, a movement not confined to our own faith, men are looking out upon the world with more charity, with more of Christ and less of creed. There is more tolerance; less bigotry.' Men's sympathies and horizons are enlarging as the bigger Christianity is revealed. The Latter-day Saints are becoming better known. And bitterness is uprooted when the fidelity and Christian character of our people become apparent. We are mixing more with the world; the days of our isolation are gone. The coTHE WORLD Sd operative spirit is gaining ground. The leaven of the Gospel is being disseminated through personal ministry and contact, by means of the spoken word, and also by that strange natural force harnessed by science and quite properly utilized by the church鍟he radio. Never has there been such a world-wide flood of Christian teaching and the major note is that sounded by our own church in its broad but no less decisive proclamation of the fuller Gospel. While this new status brings with it new problems and new responsibilities to which the church will have to address itself, it is significant of the times, of that gradual but persisting trend toward the Golden Age of the world when peace and goodwill shall prevail in the hearts of men everywhere. This reviving interest in spiritual matters is an answer to those noisy propagandists who seem to take sinister delight in predicting the decay of institutionalized religion and its ultimate downfall. But this is not all. We have additional reason for believing that Chesterton is right and Dr. Harry Elmer Barnes is wrong when he talks about the "Twilight of Christianity.' We have also good reason for believing Chesterton's analaysis of contemporary thought is more trustworthy than that of E. Boyd Barrett whe in a recent article paints the following gloomy picture: "The churches are for the most part intellectually bankrupt and spiritually decadent. There is no light upon the horizon. And, as far as we know, no Prophet hides in the desert eating locusts and wild honey, the while he prepares his soul to deliver a saving message to men. "There lies immediately before us a period of pagan orgies and debauch. The mystery of mysteries is too baffling for our tired minds. For the wisest among us there remains the privilege of gloom 378 and sadness㻡lso, perhaps, the dream of resurgent hope in the distant future." Our answer to this dismal forecast is that from another quarter is coming added strength to our faith. Science, long looked upon as the foe of religion, is taking a hand as the ally of the Christian faith in its fight against the materialism and atheism of the day. It was the late Sir J. W. Dawson, president of McGill University at Montreal, a great philosopher and a great man, who said: "I know nothing of the origin of man, except what I am told in the Scriptures鍟hat God created man. I do not know anything more than that, and I do not know of any man who does." The distinguished American scientist, Dr. Millikan, is representaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tive of an increasing group of sincere and honest thinkers who see no conflict between true science and that religious conception which rises above narrow dogmatism and denominationalism. ''Science has laid the foundation for a new and a stupendous advance in men's conception of God, for a sublimer view of the world and of man's place and destiny in it." He affirms that religion is one of the world's supremest needs, and one of the greatest contributions any one can make to world progress will consist in furnishing an example to the world of how the religious life can evolve intelligently, wholesomely, inspiringly and reverently, completely divorced from all superstition and all unwholesome emotionalism." Be Not Too Tired, Mother By Linnie Fisher Robinson The day and its splendor of colors is gone, Close veiled by the velvety darkness. The winds of the night creep softly by, Rustling the leaves "neath the kildeer's cry, While the lamps of the hearth are. Lighted. Wee little birds are hushed and abed *Till morn and the sunshiny glory. Mother's wee tots are all washed and fed, Eagerly waiting the gift of a story; Be not too tired, Mother! What shall you tell them, though fed, they are hungry; Hungry for light, though day has far gone. Each little soul's hungry for beauty, Each little pulse for manly deeds done; Each child wants a wee bit of heaven. Give them truths that eternally glow; Let each look at life through a window Unwarped and clean, for so they shall grow, Crooked or straight by the strength of thy story; Be not too tired, Mother!
