The Relief Society Magazine - February 1967, Vol. 54, No. 2

Gift of Time Eva Willes Wangsgaard Over night's purple hill tomorrows come To offer faith, new hope, another chance. In this anticipation lies the sum Of man's survival and the world's advance. Tomorrow is a pheasant in the brush, Its plumage many-hued and prism-bright, Which lifts above the shadows' muting plush, On low-flung wings, a shining arc of flight. However deep the pain or darkness lies, Tomorrow's aura beckons just ahead And brings a gift unseen by finite eyes, A rich surprise with powers unlimited, An iridescent glow, a golden band, A gift of time, love-blessed, divinely planned.

The Cover: Winter Portrait Transparency by Jim Keeler Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Lake Shikotsu, Japan Photograph by Harold M. Lambert

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

I wonder if there could be anyone who waits for The Relief Society Magazine as anxiously as I do. It may well be because the Magazine has so many readers and admirers. Why this anxiety? Well, there are many reasons. First of all, I am from Buenos Aires, Argentina, and, as you know, my language is Spanish, and that is one of the reasons why I am enjoying the Spanish Magazine. Secondly, for the varied topics of interest on many subjects, and because it also appeals to my husband. For this, I have an enjoyable time commenting, and this provides a beautiful and instructive means for a discussion with my husband.

Julia P. Mangum Provo, Utah

My daughter and son-in-law are Latter-day Saints. I am Baptist, but I love The Relief Society Magazine, and we share it with my daughter-in-law, who is Presbyterian! Therefore three homes greatly benefit from it.

Mrs. Lydia Leeds Greer, Arizona

Our wonderful Magazine has always been a great comfort to me. The beautiful stories teach a lesson that can comfort when one is troubled and worried. The editorial page is so inspiring. Now in my seventy-ninth year, living the gospel is the most important thing in my life. The Magazine helps me so much. I read it from cover to cover and also send it to two of my daughters.

Agnes Watts Spring Valley, California

82

The Relief Society Magazine has been my favorite for many years. I was especially touched by Pearle M. Olsen's article "Resembling Mother" (May 1966). If Pearle's own mother was anything like her, she was truly a wonderful person. Other thoughts I enjoyed from the May issue were: "Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother," by Leah Green, and Lydia Parker's "Letter to Daughter From Mother." Mabel L. Anderson's "Much of Worth The Relief Society Magazine" expressed the feelings of women throughout the Church. I also enjoyed "Offering for Peace" (poem by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and my heart was particularly touched by "My Heart Would Break," by Maude O. Cook.

Amy Giles Bond Kaysville, Utah

I could see joy and delight in my husband's face as he sat down to his Sunday dinner a few weeks ago. As he finished the last morsel of food, I detected a little note of extra special thanks as he expressed his appreciation to me for the meal. So I feel I owe this extra special thanks to Asel B. Brodt for her most delightful account in the August Magazine of serving her father's favorite dessert "Apple Dumplings," and the recipe accompanying it. This recipe will be added to my recipe file. All my married life (twenty-six years), my husband has been trying to get me to make him some boiled apple dumplings the way his mother used to make them, so I was thrilled when I came across this article.

Mrs. Blenavond F. Curtis Baldwin Park, California

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah INSPIRING READING from Deseret Book a THE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY A Book of Selected Readings by Dr. Blaine R. Porter $4.95 Timely articles from many sources selected by the dean of the College of Family Living at Brigham Young University to help Latter-day Saints understand the divine nature of the family unit, and through this understanding successfully meet the challenges of today's culture that would pull apart family unity. THE BOOK OF MORMON STORY by Mary Pratt Parrish Illustrated by Ronald Crosby $6.95 Here are exciting stories and spiritual experiences from this sacred volume of scripture told in the actual language of The Book of Mormon. Lavishly illustrated with full color paintings and fluorographic pencil drawings to make the stories more meaningful to young and old alike. A treasured volume for every —_ home. SS T Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, Calif. 92669 Send me— (] THE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY {] THE BOOK OF MORMON STORY Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 34%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange - store. Or charge my account. Total $............. _S—_ ———==—= Ae > SSG a a" R. S. Feb. 67 OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS!