[Vol1 | December 1914 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: Home Ethics and Gardening - The Christmas Spirit]
The Christmas trees and dear old Santa Claus' visit to the chimney corner, where hangs the varied-colored and many-sized stockings of the anxious little ones, show that these feelings are shared by babies all, whether the occupants dwell in palace or dreary hovel.
Then comes the dainty, blushing maiden in her teens, along with the comely gallant near her own age, their thoughts are all in a flutter, for 'tis not toys and sweetmeats they are looking for, but their tastes turn to books, music, painting, poetry, etc., aside from the opera, theatre, and ball which they anticipate attending at Christmas time during vacation.
Papa and mama have also their hopes, loves and fond expectations.
Perhaps there is a neglected or long-forgotten life-dream to be again awakened, a chord in the heart once more to vibrate in that inner harmony.
Christmas is ever an appropriate period to reunite the members of the home circle to; strengthen the weak, and to banish any little unpleasantness that may have disturbed our intercourse in the past.
It will make us better men and women to extend charity and sympathy to one another.
Even on this day, grandpa and grandma come in for their full share of consideration.
They have their joyous thoughts of past happy periods, when their own genial, glowing fireside sheltered a host of bright-faced sons and daughters, and who now look with pleasure to the coming Merry Christmas, surrounded by generous, loving, healthy grandchildren who, to be sure, never forget to pray and send word to Santa Claus to fill to the brim their grandparents' stocking with pretty, also useful presents.
 HOME ETHICS.
I.
Christmas greetings to our Relief Society sisters.
II.
One should read, study and give sincere attention to the birth, life, and mission of our Savior.
III.
Follow him through all the different vicissitudes from birth until his crucifixion.
IV.
Ater doing this, one can more fully appreciate the greatness, beauty, and magnificence of Christ's character.
V.
Why we celebrate this day.
VI.
How the children, old and young, papas and mamas,
and grandparents, join in its observance.
