[Vol1 | December 1914 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Note]

notes. 
Those who have received the Bulletin are the best judges as to the success or failure of this experiment. 
This is the month in which we celebrate the nativity of Christ, and although we are reasonably certain he was born in April, and not in December, still we join with the Christian world in making the 25th of December a memorial day to our worshipped Savior and Redeemer. 
When we go to lay our gifts on the altar of the future, as did the wise men in the cave of Bethlehem, we are minded to question ourselves as to the value and potency of those gifts. 
When I see a mother with a babe at her breast, to whom she has given the gift of a body, through her own body when; I see a father's loving arms around the shoulders of his growing sons; when I see a teacher forming character in the little students gathered about her desk, when I see a man cheerfully relinquishing a coveted prize that another may profit thereby; when I see our leaders giving of themselves without stint nor withholding in their labors of guidance and wise direction amongst people when I see the women of the Relief Society; trudging about the snowy streets with their gifts for the poor, and their words of encouragement for all, when I see men and women going down into the waters of baptism to bring their  kindred dead out from their prison houses, when I see all of these things, then I say, these noble men and women all have gifts of inestimable value to lay at the feet of the Babe of Bethlehem, and I ask myself, are any of these gifts mine to give? 
 S What have I done for the sick, the poor, the tempted, the tried, the widow and orphan, the weak and erring, or for the spirits in prison? 
Have I saved a soul, or have I fed and nourished a starving body, or administered to a hungry spirit? 
If I have, then these are my gifts of frankincense and myrrh. 
I know a good woman who has gathered over $-400 to distribute to the destitute Saints in the European missions through President Hyrum M. 
Smith. 
Many of the givers of these gifts were poor widows themselves, struggling and almost destitute, but they have gladly denied themselves, and have appealed to the tender impulses of their friends to use their Christmas money in thus relieving the wants of our own Saints in Europe, whose fathers and husbands have gone out to this dreadful war. 
This, indeed, is a work of love and charity. 
Such work and kindred labors will prepare a Christmas atmosphere that will envelope us all in a robe of love and peace. 
What are you giving this Christmas to the Master? 
December WOKK AI^D BUSINESS Lesson I. "Charity is the pure love of Christ and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it  shall.be well with them. "Book of Moroni, 7:47. 
December GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson IL Ten minutes talk on Current Events. 
How to Secure More Genealogical Data: "For the children of this world are in their generation  wiser than the children of light." Luke, 16:8. "The greatest responsibility in this world, that God has laid upon us, is to seek after our dead. "Joseph Smith. 
The people of the world have done vastly more in securing and preparing their genealogical data than the Latter-day Saints have done in utilizing that information and data in their temple work. 
The libraries and printing offices of the world are engaged frequently in storing and publishing the family  histories, and parish and church records, which antiquarians in Europe and America have prepared for this purpose. 
The Prophet Joseph Smith has told us that The greatest responsibility in this world, that God has laid upon us, is to seek after our dead." Write to all your relatives at home and abroad for information concerning theirs and your dead relatives. 
Ask them for names and dates, and all historical facts which they can remember or secure. 
If they do not answer promptly, write again, and if they still are dilatory, write again. 
Always enclose a stamped envelope for reply. 
This is an invariable rule in correspondence. 
Keep on writing for information. 
It might be said that one is to write for information as often as one is to forgive one's enemy, and that was seventy times seven. 
Write the Genealogical Society, Salt Lake City, Utah; state your facts and difficulties; ask for information. 
They may not be able to supply it, but you will certainly receive a courteous answer. 
Join the Genealogical Society of Utah. 
This will prove of much help spiritually for you in your work for the dead. 
Truth is truth, whether you believe the truth or not. 
The gospel is true whether you embrace it or not, but if you are converted to its truth, and go down into the waters of baptism, wonderful powers and gifts and blessings will follow your entrance into the Kingdom of God. 
In like manner, you may be converted to the necessity of working for your dead, or you may not be. 
That does not alter the truth or the principle of salvation for the dead, nor lessen the spiritual value of membership in the Genealogical Society of Utah. 
If you will take out a membership in that society a flood of genealogical light and inspiration and assistance will come to you on all sides, and from many hidden sources. 
Practically speaking, your membership in that society at $1 a year entitles you to free study in the library, while you secure the services of the trained genealogist at a reduction of 40 cents an hour. 
Your subscription to the Genealogical Magazine is, $1.50 a year, if you are not a member, and it is only $1 a year, if you are. 
Whatever you do or do not do, be sure to prepare the data already in your possession, in the manner indicated in these lessons. 
Group your families in proper form, giving all the data obtainable, record sources of information and relations-hip to the heir, number them properly and after having written all your data in your lead pencil note-book, then copy with ink in your record book for temple use. 
If all you who have followed these lessons will take the counsel given in this last lesson, we will promise you freely  that the good spirit will constantly lead your mind to those persons and places where you can secure further light and information concerning your dead. 
You may experience difficulties, you may find obstacles in your path, but if you will persist, the angels will assist you, your dead will pray for you, and finally, you will achieve such a labor as will crown your whole life here and hereafter with perfection and peace. 
December