[Vol46 | September 1959 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 


 NO. 9 A Onna nel for Government I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir (Isaiah 13:12). NE hundred and_ seventy-two years ago (1767), in this month of September, the Constitution of the United States was presented to the Convention for ratification, and since that epoch-making time, September has been known as "Constitution Month." On the twelfth day of the month, the document was placed before the representatives "of the people." On September 17th, thirty-nine delegates voted approval, and on the twenty-eighth, Congress resolved to submit the Constitution to the legislature of each State. In July 1788, announcement was made that the requisite nine States had ratified the Constitution, and the last State, Rhode Island, approved in May 1790. A new Government appeared among the nations of the earth. This "standard of liberty" represented an enlightened answer to an age-old problem — the government of men in mortal life; the resolving of the conflict between law and liberty, between freedom and _ discipline. Preparatory to the restoration of the gospel, in the land of America not far from the region of the Hill Cumorah, there was signed the Constitution of the United States "According to the laws and Constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and proPage 596 tection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles " (D & C' 101:77). The Constitution, although formulated and framed within a relatively short period of time, was not "a sprouting tree of sudden growth." There had been a long prelude and a preface of centuries, for the fundamental principles of that instrument had long stirred the minds of men, and some of its doctrines had achieved a partial ratification among the nations, "far brought from out the storied past." The Declaration of Independence had placed "a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence," and the Articles of Confederation stated: "... It has pleased the Great Governor of the world to incline the hearts of the legislatures... To ratify said Articles of Confederation and Perpetual union." And, in the Constitution, the formulation and the framing of the words were new, the devotion and the dedication, the foreshadowing of the wide frontiers of the future were new and splendid in their beckoning. And this ensign in a "new world" provided for the processes of government, a testament of ideals and principles, a tower of security in the midst of shifting values; as Washington said, "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair." 'This covenant of free peo- EDITORIAL ple implied the exercise of judgment and knowledge in the establishment of a design for government, a directing code of ideals, an enduring pilot light under which laws might be established and administered in equity and righteousness — seeking to balance the forces of liberty and law in full awareness of the consideration that liberty can exist only in the presence of righteous restraint. And thus the tall tree of liberty spread its many branches of laws and statutes over the dominions of a wide inheritance, and many able and devoted men plied their strength and courage to the "ennobling of the structure and the timbers of enduring government." Their words and their work and the devotion of the generations have enabled the 597 federation of States to advance in the administration of laws and judgments designed to protect the inherent rights of men as individuals and at the same time to increase the welfare and the human happiness of fifty United States, and many other areas of the earth as well. In this time of fluctuating and irresponsible governments in many parts of the world, when anxiety and uncertainty prevail in many lands, in our times of turmoil, it becomes increasingly essential that constitutional law should be upheld as an emblem and an anchor of stability and justice, and as an enduring example of such principles of law and order as may find an ever-widening application in the earth. —V. P. C. << She Sour Standard Works of the Church to Be Lssued in New Edition INCE the time of the organization of the Church, Latter-day Saints have been urged to read and contemplate the word of the Lord as set forth in the holy scriptures. It is of sacred significance that the prelude to the restoration of the gospel came in answer to a young boy's diligent study of the Bible, regarding the words of James "a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." The Deseret Book Company will issue in the late fall (October or November), a beautiful family edition of the Standard Works of the Church — The Bible, The Book of Mormon, The Doctrine and Covenants, and The Pearl of Great Price. The careful thought and planning behind the new edition have been directed towards a prayerful study of scripture, a seeking "out of the best books words of wisdom...."