[Vol46 | September 1959 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
S iterature—America's Literature — A. New Nation Speaks Lesson 11—Benjamin Franklin, Retired Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 95-122) For Tuesday, December 15, 1959 Objective: To review Franklin's literary versatility and so better appreciate his mature endowments. [N 1748, during his forty-second year, Benjamin Franklin turned over his successful printing business to his partner, in return receiving a substantial share of the profits during the eighteen years following. He owned several homes, and accumulated considerable land holdings in the Ohio Valley. Freed by his own past industry to a life of leisure (which he defined as contrasting sharply with laziness), he had a luxurious amount of time to devote to whatsoever he chose. Should he give his time to himself or to others? All the ancestors of golf, hunting and fishing, horses, boating, travel, luxurious food and clothing, elegant society, he passed by without a LESSON DEPARTMENT thought. Soon after leaving his print shop he bought a three-hundred acre farm in New Jersey and began experimenting with depth of rootage and resistance to frost of varying mixtures and concentrations of seed. He speculated about the source of mountain springs and noted the varying rock strata. Finding fossilized amimals imbedded in rock high on a mountain, he recorded his observations that "We live on the wreck of a world." He perfected a device for making duplicate copies from a roller; by a simple experiment he proved communicative powers among ants; he announced the cyclonic theory of storms and conjectured that hght does not come from the sun in particles. He now had time to question, observe, and theorize on myriad aspects of the physical world. (See Relief Society Magazine, July 1959, p- 480.) The Objective Scientist All he asked was knowledge, which it was his pleasure to earn. And, in recording it, he was the objective scientist. He never took time to write up his famous kite experiment, which to the unlearned made him appear as a magician while to his fellow-searchers in France and Sweden and England he was the leading investigator of electricity of the day. His experiments were translated into French, German, and Italian, and in English he originated the entire basic vocabulary of electricity: positive, negative, non-conductor, armature, etc. He was invited to become a member of various Royal Societies of Science and Physics throughout Europe; his clectrical studies were published in England. 631 Public Service This most active period of his life as a scientist came to an end in 1753, when he was appointed Deputy Postmaster for continental British America. After he reorganized the postal system and made it yield a profit, he represented Pennsylvania in England, served as member of the Pennsylvania Assembly, then from 1764 to 1775 was in England representing Pennsylvania, Georgia, New Jersey, and Massachusetts. He returned, resigned to separation, helped draft the Declaration of Independence: and later the Articles of Confederation. He represented the colonies at the court of France for twelve years, returning to Philadelphia in 1785, after negotiating the peace treaty with England. During the last five years of his life, he lived in Philadelphia (text, page 96) where he was elected President of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and was a delegate to the Constitutional Convention in 1787, three years before his death in 1790. If we are justified in assuming that this retired printer gave his time to the place where his heart lay, we find in him the archetype of selfless public service and concern for his fellow men. From his earliest years, when he read during his lunch period in the print shop, until his last days, his hunger for knowledge and_ books never ceased. Reading was his lifelong companion. He knew not how his personal library grew up the walls of his study, both in England and in France, but he cherished and read all books "containing knowl edge that may hereafter be useful to America." Yet learning for its own sake was as foreign to him as indif- 632 ference; learning was good because it was useful; in his own words "Learning whether speculative or practical, is in popular or mixed governments, the natural source of wealth and honor." By the same standard of value he became one of our greatest masters of English prose: he trained himself to write well because such a skill, he believed, would assist him in "getting 9? On. Literary Craftsman Though he never considered himself a writer, and though he published no books, his collected works fill ten volumes. The bulk of his writings consists of his newspaper works and his personal letters. In his political life he made very few speeches, choosing always to let the written page represent him. His Autobiography, the most widely read personal history written in English, he dashed off during three separate, miscellaneous periods of his life. Apparently the present was so exciting that he could not for long dwell on the past. Realizing that writing "is best wrote which is best adapted for obtaining the end of the writer," Franklin's first friends in Philadelphia were poets, since he believed that he could best master prose by submitting himself to the discipline of verse writing. He consciously imitated the style of the Spectator Papers by Addison and Steele and captured in his own lines their quality of enameled smoothness. After writing in verse he turned the same thoughts in prose, and vice versa. Always writing with greatest care, he made many revisions of his thoughts before achieving a final draft. 'To his sensitive ear the caRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 dence of his lines was of extreme importance; as a result, reading him is always a pleasure to the reader's imagination and inner ear. Franklin is one of our greatest masters of the "simple style" which the Puritans so much admired. Always choosing common _ words, and making very few images or elaborate comparisons, he wrote in simple sentences. Because he controlled most carefully the uniformity of his tone, his page always seems "underwritten," or less emphatic than what he is recounting. Thus the reader is forced to supply his share in the communicative process, and, in so doing, Franklin's words capture him completely. The Autobiography Because Franklin never considered himself a man of letters, it becomes an easy temptation to agree with him; however, the evidence points otherwise. No book can speak to generation after generation without possessing genuine literary skill. His greatest ability, and a most rare one, is the easy projection of "self" onto the page, until the reader becomes one with him. His warmth for people and his keen observation contribute to his ability to characterize vividly and tersely. His is a true feeling for dramatic intensity, and by combining it with his narrative powers, he impels the reader to keep turning the page "just to see what happens," always the sure proof of imaginative word power. As Carl Van Doren concludes in his great study on Franklin, he is "a harmonious human multitude." Merely because he did everything else extremely well is not justification for belittling his achievement as a writer. Franklin LESSON DEPARTMENT is never a '"'long-hair" literary man; he's just a writer almost everybody likes enough to read and to recommend to their children. Under the spell of Franklin's art this greatest of all "rags to riches" story isn't told—it's uncovered, since it has always existed, so naturally is it done. The selections in our text (pages 98-122) are the most well-known: how the runaway apprentice comes to Philadelphia, friendless, almost penniless, but ready to pay for his passage even though he has rowed all the way, and bestowing his great puffy loaves of bread on_ those whose need was greater than his. Desiring to attain moral perfection, Franklin composed a catalogue of moral virtues, which to him seemed necessary or desirable. It is the American Enlightenment's classic example of man's belief in his own ability to improve himself and, therefore, his society through selfdiscipline. Concerning this project we read: I wish'd to live without committing any fault at any time; I would conquer all that either natural inclination, custom, or company might lead me into. As I knew, or thought I knew, what was right and wrong, I did not see why I might not always do the one and avoid the other. But I soon found I had undertaken a task of more difficulty than I had imagined.