[Vol46 | September 1959 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE North Central States Mission was organized at a conference held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, under the direction of Elder Rudger Clawson, of the Council of the Twelve, on July 12, 1925. It was formed from parts of the Northern States, Northwestern States, Western States, and Canadian Mission, and included the States of Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, that part of Montana lying east of Great Falls, and the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Ontario (as far east as Port Arthur) in Canada. John G. Allred of Salt Lake City was installed as the first president of the new Mission, and headquarters was established in Minneapolis, where a suitable mission home was rented. 'Thirty-two missionaries were transferred from other missions to. The new mission. The Latter-day Saints were fairly well established in the territory of the North Central States Mission and chapels had previously been erected in Minneapolis, St. Paul, Dalbo, and Springvale, Minnesota, and in Harlem, Tyler, and Wolf Point, Montana. There were also chapels at Bergland and Winnipeg in Canada. Courtesy Minnesota State Centennial Commission Submitted by Vadna C. Matson GRAND PORTAGE (RESTORATION) ON THE NORTH SHORE OF LAKE SUPERIOR A national historic site which was the greatest fur depot in the country from about 1783 to 1804. Page 582 THE NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION 583 Ave § " i x A 3 EK rT ea an: om: niet ze SS 1 Gy "ei SY WA E \. Aii aw LS i ai t Ed # wh esse wok jake Wine. * Ps i Nee: Miller Stuaite Piete South Dakota MISSOURI RIVER BRIDGES AT PIERRE, SOUTH DAKOTA President Allred served as president of the Mission with diligence and success until June 1929, when he was released to return to his home. Fle was succeeded by Arthur Welling, of Farmington, Utah, who presided until June 1934, when he was succeeded by Wilford W. Richards. At the end of 1930, it was computed that there were 2,600 members of the Church in the North Central States Mission. Presidents who have served since that time are: Wilford W. Richards, 1934 - 1937; David A. Broadbent, 1937 - 1940; George F'. Richards Jr., 1940 - 1944; William L. Killpack, 1944 - 1949; John B. Hawkes, 1949 - 1954; G. Eugene England, 1954 - 1957; Paul C. Child, serving at the present time. On March 31, 1959, there were 4,541 members of the Church in the North Central States Mission, located in thirty-five branches. During June 1959, Elder Alvin R. Dyer, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, made a tour of the North Central States Mission with President Child. On his return to Salt Lake City, he said, "The Mission is making progress under the devoted leadership of President Child. Convert baptisms are showing an increase over the previous year. I found the mussionaries all well and laboring diligently to carry on their responsibilities." Thirty-one Relief Society organizations, with 634 members, were reported in December 1958. Diana H. Child presides over the North Central States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Farm Scene in Minnesota" was submitted by Vadna C. Matson, First Counselor in the North Central States Mission Relief Socictv. See also "Recipes From the North Central States Mission," by Diana H. Child, page 600. Next Verona T. Bowen HE golden shaft of summer sunshine smiled on the small girl at the console of the great organ on this, her special day. Was she playing the organ? Hardly, for she was yet only ten or twelve years old, her feet only able to reach the foot pedals by hard stretching. "Next," came a voice from the organ, and her fingers nimbly moved to the next key. "Next," and she played the following note, "next," and again she played the next note. What was she doing — this small one at the world-famous organ? This slight half-adult, half-child, with long golden braids above the wide-set, deep, smiling eyes, was an assistant. Young? Yes, very young, but capable, most of the time, if she kept her two-track mind on both the book she was reading and the organ she was helping to tune. 'That voice with the sing in it was the voice of Father, the technician of the great organ. "Next," his voice sang out to her, and her nimble fingers touched the next note. "Next," he called again and she pressed down the following note. "Next, next, next," and so it went until all the voice of the organ was in perfect tune. Father would busy himself in the organ for a few minutes, then come down to the console. Expertly he would run his agile fingers over the keyboard listening and _ selecting the off-key notes. Perhaps it was the terrific heat wave or the sudden cold after the evening thunder shower that put the great, sensitive organ Page 584 out of tonal quality. As Father played, suddenly a mawkish screech or a thunderous belch would scream out, instead of the usual gracious song of the note, for the great organ was like a barometer, sensitive to changes in the weather. In summer it was extremely temperamental. Its behavior could be disastrous to the great master who played it, had it not been for the tuner and his assistant. Father's attuned ear found the flaws, consulting with the young assistant, and a new set of stops would be set. Then Father would go back to the great chamber of the organ, where thousands of wires and _ intricacies awaited him, and with his tuning forks, he would again be busy, adjusting each note to perfect tone, while the young daughter was at the console playing the notes. Tuning of this amazing, intricate, delicate mechanism was a must, daily, in preparation for the noonday visitors and tourists who flocked to hear the great master in the noonday recital and see the fascinating, formidable, unique structure that housed it. When tours of people passed through the building just to eye the building and the organ, and to listen to the unbelievable acoustics, they were also amazed if they saw the young assistant at the keyboard. She was quite unaware of them, however, wrapped up in her work and her book. Father was calling now. His little assistant sat alert. They were going to change the voice again. She NEXT was sharp and dexterous and could change it without his coming down to the console. She managed so well that once they started to tune, he seldom came down again except to try the whole of the organ or several voices together. Then he would run his fingers over the keyboard or lose himself in a few moments of sweet harmony. His melodious voice, that could sing so well and was part of the ward choir, was calling to her. "Let's get the echo organ now, and we will be through for today. You get it set while I go to the far back of the building." The assistant on the organ seat closed her book. Expertly she adjusted the stops. When the voice, distant now in the great structure and hardly audible, called its "Next," she was already reading in her book and waiting. 'This was the last they would do today, and the great master would be there any moment now to practice for the noonday recital. "Next. Next. Next," came the far distant voice. EXT, next," came a voice in her ear. Startled, her book closed, she fumbled a half dozen keys on the organ and then gained composure. The gentle, strong hands of the master rested on her shoulders. "Did I startle you?" he inquired. "And how is our little assistant today?" He looked at her warmly. He was fond of this young lady who so cleverly manipulated the voice of this great instrument he played. She put the book by her side on the bench. "Good morning, Sir. Are you early?" She spoke to him in an unaffected, mature way with a 585 quiet hint of reserve in her manner. He liked that well-mannered attitude, "Probably the reflection of her intellectual, nicely disciplined home," he had often said to his wife. The organist patted her shoulder, picked up the book by her side, read the title out loud, World's Greatest Literature. "Are these the new books your father told me he bought you children?" She expertly moved her fingers with each "Next," as she visited with the organist. "This is one of the books," she replied, watching him as he turned the pages, noting various titles out loud. "How many books have you read this summer, while you have helped your daddy?" "I could hardly say, but many. I usually stop at the library several times a week. A very nice person there helps me select my reading. We are great friends now because I am there so often." "Bless you, child, I wish my children read just a small part of what you do." In the far distance, Father's voice called, ""That's all, now." The master slid his big, well-built frame in on the bench beside the assistant. He gently pushed her along to make room for himself, but firmly put his arm around her to hold her there. "Stay, we'll try it out and see how it sounds now that you have finished." His masterful hands adjusted many stops on different voices, and the music of the perfectly tuned organ, under his adept hands, suddenly filled the great hall. "Splendid!" he exclaimed. "Fine! Perfect!" Swiftly his fingers flowed 586 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 over the keyboard, and the music poured out over the empty tabernacle, but his attention was still on the girl. S6RTOW that summer is over, will you be helping your father any more?" he was inquiring. He was thinking he would miss not seeing her around. A certain glow went through her, thinking of this, her last regular working day. "I will help my father on Saturdays. Now and then I may have to come after school, if there is something special and daddy cannot get help." As she replied she thought how resentful she had been when Father had asked her if she would work for him. How silly she had been.